****Dialogues from script :Artist.txt****

****Dialogues from script :As_Good_As_It_Gets.txt****

melvin		Come here, sweetheart... come on.
melvin		Wanna go for a ride? Okay, sweetie?
melvin		 You've pissed your last floor, you dog-eared monkey.
melvin		I'll bet you wish you were some sort of real dog now, huh? Don't worry...  this is New York. If you can make it here, you can make it anywhere, you know? You ugly, smelly fuck.
simon		Verdell!?!! Here, good doggie...
simon		Mr. Udall... excuse me. Hey there!  Have you seen Verdell?
melvin		What's he look like?
simon		My dog... you know... I mean my little dog with the adorable face... Don't you know what my dog looks like?
melvin		I got it. You're talking about your dog. I thought that was the name of the colored man I've been seeing in the hall.
simon		Which color was that?
melvin		Like thick molasses, with one of those wide noses perfect for smelling trouble and prison food...
simon		Frank Sachs -- Melvin Udall.
melvin		 How're you doing?
simon		Franks shows my work, Mr. Udall. I think you know that.
frank		 Simon, you've got to get dressed.
melvin		 What I know is that as long as you keep your work zipped up around me, I don't give a fuck what or where you shove your show. Are we being neighbors for now?
simon		 Do you still think I was exaggerating?
frank		Definitely a package you don't want to open or touch.
melvin		Hope you find him. I love that dog.
simon		 You don't love anything, Mr. Udall.
melvin		I love throwing your dog down the garbage chute.
simon		Thank the good Lord... wow... my honey... where have you been?
party goer		 He always liked me.
simon		Just for a second, okay?
simon		 Look at him...  where was little baby?
handyman		 In the basement garbage bin eating diaper shit.
simon		Go ahead, John, you earned your fun.  How did he get down in the basement? I mean even if he got on the elevator how... ?
handyman		Maybe some nice neighbor shoved him down the garbage chute.
simon		My God! No!
melvin		'Somewhat in the dark, she had confessed and he had forgiven. This is what you live for, he said. Two heads on a pillow where there is only the safety of being with each other. How, she wondered, could she find such hope in the most shameful part of her.'
melvin		'At last she was able to define love. Love was... '
melvin		'Love was... '
melvin		... Son-of-a-bitch-pansy-assed- stool-pusher.
melvin		 Yeeeess!!!
simon		Maybe this can wait.
simon		I found Verdell, Mr. Udall.
melvin		Well, that's a load off.
simon		Did you... do something to him?
melvin		Do you realize that I work at him?
simon		 No, I didn't.
melvin		Do you like to be interrupt when you are danging around in your little garden?
simon		No...  actually, I even shut the phone off and put a little piece of cardboard in the ringer so no one can just buzz me from d...
melvin		Well, I work all the time. So never, never again interrupt me. Okay? I mean, never. Not 30 years from now... not if there's fire. Not even if you hear a thud from inside my home and a week later there's a smell from in there that can only come from a decaying body and you have to hold a hanky against your face because the stench is so thick you think you're going to faint even then don't come knocking or, if it's election night and you're excited and want to celebrate because some fudge-packer you dated has been elected the first queer President of the United States... and he's going to put you up in Camp David and you just want to share the moment with someone...  don't knock ...  not on this door. Not for anything. Got me. Sweetheart?
simon		Yes. It's not a subtle point you're making.
melvin		Okay, then.
simon		So the theory of confrontations is that now he'll think twice before messing with me?
simon		He's genuinely upsetting, isn't he?
frank		Won't worry about it. You go ahead.
melvin		No touch. No touch. No touch.
frank		You may think you can intimidate the whole world with your attitude, but I grew up in Hell. My grandmother had more attitude. You don't intimidate me.
melvin		 Assault and battery and you're black.
frank		Shhhh now. I like Simon. I like him enough to batter you unrecognizable if you verbally abuse him or so much as touch his dog again. Meanwhile, I'll try and think how you can make this up to him.  Have a nice day. Party!
carol		 Look at you, you're all better.
mother		It's that new medication.
carol		You know all my son's stuff, right?
carol		No, no, no, I got a date tonight. I'm walking out the door this morning and he says to me, 'Mom, I promise not to get one of my fevers or coughs during your date.'
mother		Isn't that sweet.
carol		Little blonde angle.  Eat everything.
woman		It just came out of me. I said you love me the way a remote control loves a TV. As long as I switch every time...
melvin		People who talk in metaphors can shampoo my crotch.  Eat up.
lisa		Pay me back next week.
carol		I owe you. I told you today... them's the rules. Oh, excuse me, Melvin.
melvin		I'm starving.
carol		 Will you please take it?
lisa		This way you take a cab home so you have time to get ready for the date.
carol		"Ready" is not my problem.
carol		 Go sit down. You know you're not allowed back here...  Spencer's more excited about it than I am... He says, "Mom, I promise not to get a fever or couch during your date."
carol		I know. He's just the best.
melvin		I've got Jews at my table.
carol		It's not your table. It's the place's table. Behave. This once, you can sit at someone else's station.
carol		Or you can just wait your turn...
melvin		How much more you got to eat? Your appetite isn't as big as your noses, is it?
woman		What?!!
man		 Let's go --
man		Let's leave. We're going.
carol		Bryan says he doesn't care how long you've been coming you ever act like this again you're barred for life. I'm gonna miss the excitement, but I'll handle it.
melvin		The table's fine if it had some cholesterol on it. Two sausages, six bacon strips, fries, three eggs over easy and coffee.
carol		You're gonna die soon with that diet, you know that?
melvin		We're all gonna die soon. I will. You will. It sure sounds like your son will.
carol		If you ever mention my son again, you will never be able to eat here again. Do you understand? Give me some sign you understand or leave now. Do you understand me...  you crazy freak? Do you?!?
carol		Okay. I'll get your order.
young man		What?
carol		I...  I...  I don't know...  You got me.
carol		Let me just do whatever I do by myself...  I'll catch up to you someplace I promise.  Oh, no...  don't look like that. No. I'm sorry if I'm a goof.
carol		Kissing...  kissing boys. Oh my.
young man		Maybe you better check.
carol		Like what did you think I was going to do?
beverly		I'm sorry. I was hearing just everything you were doing so I put these on to give you privacy.
spencer		I'm sorry.
carol		Don't be silly. How bad?
spencer		Not bad.
carol		 You can't smoke...  He can't take smoke.
carol		Oh, God...  I don't even notice anymore.
carol		That'll teach you.
young man		Don't apologize.
carol		 That wasn't an apology.
carol		Hey...  this is just a little throw- up -- it's nothing to be so embarrassed about. Really.  Thanks for the dinner. Let me write down which trains you take to get back.
young man		No way.
young man		I'll take a cab.
young man		Too much reality for a Friday night.
evan		Why is every customer surprised I read books?
doug		 You read books?
evan		Oh, wow! I know this guy! Look! He even bought me dinner.
carl		 Look, I just can't. I promised Simon I'd find him a model.
carl		.        ...  I just found a model.
doug		 Hey, how it's goin'...
evan		Hey, hi...  remember?
carl		I only need one.
evan		You picked me up, maybe a few weeks, I don't know, some time ago. You were very flattering about our...  encounter.
carl		Maybe just you and me...  but this is for a painting. I need a pretty face.
simon		Sorry, I was out in the studio doing some work and I forgot about our appointment.
simon		I usually make such a big deal out of picking models but Carl's so thorough. I'll bet he drove you nuts checking your references.
simon		 This isn't a nude.
vincent		Just kidding around.  So much for love.
simon		Exactly what is your previous experience?
vincent		How about that pose?  Give me some direction.
simon		Nothing. I just watch till something strikes me. Do anything you think of -- try different thing. Until I say, "hold that pose." Then just try and comfortably hold it.
vincent		 The fact that you haven't said, "hold it" means I haven't done it right...  is that correct? I haven't done it right?
simon		No...  Okay. What I do is watch and wait for, um... You ever watch someone who doesn't know you're watching...  an old woman on a bus, kids going to school and you see this flash come over them and you know immediately that it has nothing to do with anything external -- that it's in respond to a private thought they just had? They are just sort of realer and more alive. And when you notice it so are you. If you look at someone long enough, you discover their humanity.
vincent		I know exactly what you mean.
simon		Hold it.
melvin		Clippity clop -- clippity clop -- she has to pretend she doesn't hear me. Listening to the story from the upset friend...  now she drops off the cappuccino and smiles at the putzette who doesn't even say, "Thank you." No, the putzette wanted the whipped cream so back she goes and now she has to pass him again and it's getting tougher to make believe.
carol		 Okay.
carol		What's with the plastic picnic ware? Why not try ours...  afraid it isn't clean?
melvin		I see the help -- judgement call.
carol		Just give yourself a little pep talk. "Must try other people's clean silverware as part of the fun of dining out."
melvin		What's wrong with your son, anyway?
carol		What do you care?
carol		He's gotta fight to breathe. His asthma can just shoot off the charts -- he's allergic to dust and this is New York and his immune system bails on him when there's trouble so an ear infection...  Is this bothering you?
melvin		 No.
carol		An ear infection can send us to the emergency room -- maybe five, six times a month where I get whatever nine-year-old they just made a doctor. Nice chatting with you.
melvin		His name?
carol		Spencer.
melvin		Okay.
carol		 Spence.
simon		You can put on anything you want now. I might be sort of done here...
doug		Lucky Vinnie -- he's a painting.
vincent		So you're practically finished, huh?
simon		Yes...  well, there's one more stage -- trying to figure out if it's any good.
vincent		Wait -- I want to see the painting.
simon		Just a second -- he has to go.
vincent		Please!! NO!!!
simon		 What's the matter, sweetheart?
doug		Yo.
simon		Why are you doing this?
vincent		No. No. No. Hey, that painting in there...  I just want to tell you...
evan		 What are you doing? Cruising him?
ray		Okay. So you call 911 and don't leave your name -- even a dumb geezer should know that emergency automatically pulls up your name. How come you make a mistake like that?
melvin		How come you're pretending to do cop work -- 'cause I don't think you could find your ass if you were spotted the hole.
ray		 What?
melvin		Just move on. No one here killed him.
ray		Oh, is he dead?
melvin		Ask him.
ray		We will if we can and if we can't, we'll come back and ask you again and again.
frank		So I've got to get to the hospital. If you could take the dog just for tonight.
frank		Maybe if you kept locked in the bathroom. No? Okay. Thanks.  Old bitch...  Damn dog.
frank		You're taking him...  yes...  you're taking him -- this will clear the books. One night. You want to say "no" to me? Try...  because I've never felt as nuts as I do right this second. I almost want you to try saying "no."
melvin		 I'm not saying nothing to you.
frank		Thanks for looking after him.
melvin		You're dead!!
melvin		I don't have dog food. And I won't want dog food here. You'll eat what we have. You'll eat what we eat.
melvin		Don't you touch anything.
frank		 Put the solid red dots on three of them and the hold blue dots on two others...  Well, we're not going to sell anything if they know we're two weeks into a show and have no sales. No, you can't reduce a price at this stage...  We're in free fall here. Any calls?
jackie		We can see him.
frank		I'll meet you in there.
jackie		How you doing, great one?
simon		I haven't looked at myself yet. I figured I could tell from your reaction.
simon		That bad, huh?
frank		Hey, hey...  Haaa...  bad but temporary. The nurses say it's much better than you looked three weeks ago...  the hand will come back...  they're sure...
simon		Jackie, will you hand me the mirror?
jackie		 No.
jackie		Wait, I have a smaller one.
simon		So, what's new anyway? How's Verdell?
frank		 Your neighbor -- Udall -- is taking care of him.
simon		 How could you do that? He'll hurt him.
frank		No, I promise...  not a chance. I own this guy. There was no one else. I'm on the move too much. Trust me.
simon		You are very certain my dog is okay...  because you have no idea...
frank		Yes. Your dog is fine, Simon.
simon		Okay, waiting gives the devil time. Now!
simon		Oh my... Where'd I go? Ummmm?
carol		So what are you doing with a dog?
melvin		Suckered in. Set up. Pushed around.
carol		You're not worried that someone might take him?
melvin		Well, not until now -- for Christ's sake.
carol		Sorry.
melvin		It's okay -- I'll sit here.
carol		You know he's a little dog. Next time, if Bryan's not here, you can bring him in.
melvin		How old are you?
carol		Oh, please...
melvin		If I had to guess by your eyes, I'd say you were fifty.
carol		And if I had to guess by your eyes. I'd say you were kind. So, so much for eyes. But as long as you bring up age...  how old are you?
melvin		 Otherwise, you're not ugly.
carol		 Okay, pal...  I accept the compliment, but go easy -- my knees start a-knocking when you turn on the charm full blast.
melvin		What's with the dark?
carol		Dawn patrol -- major dawn patrol. My son had a full blown attack. And this time, for extra fun, they gave us the wrong antibiotics, so I get him home...
melvin		No...  no...  leave it...  the bacon's for the dog.
melvin		Last week I was playing the piano for him and he likes it, and so I decide I'm going to make a little joke...
carol		You all set here?
melvin		It's a beautiful day for our walk.
melvin		Don't be like me, don't you be like me. You stay just the way you are because you are a perfect man. I'm gonna take you home and get you something to eat...  what you love.
female passersby		 Ohhh. I'd like to be treated like that.
melvin		 Let's go home and do some writing.
melvin		"He turned off the gas jets and carried her outside. He kissed her brow and when her eyes opened and found him, he said, 'there are easier ways to break a date.' She laughed. The only sensible ambition he had ever known was now realized. He had made the girl happy. And what a girl. 'You've saved my life,' she said, 'you'd better make it up to me.'"
melvin		 Yes, I hate the doggy...  yes, I hate the doggy.
frank		How's Verdell doing?
melvin		He's a pain in the ass.
frank		Simon's home. I was sort of hoping you could keep the dog until he's had a chance to think and adjust...
melvin		 It's been five weeks...  another few won't kill me.
frank		No. He wants him back. He'll be by tomorrow.
melvin		 Okay by me.
melvin		That's some face they left hanging on you. You look like...
simon		 Could you take it just a little easy, Mr. Udall?
simon		Thank you. Verdell...  sweetheart?  By the way, thanks for saving me.
melvin		I called. I never touched you. I didn't leave my name or nothing.
simon		 Verdell?
simon		Hi, sweetheart.
simon		No. Please, don't force him.
jackie		 You little stinker. He's given you everything.
melvin		Over the dog...  an ugly dog.
melvin		Worst sidewalk in New York and look where they put in.
melvin		Help!
doctor		If you want to see me you will not do this. You will make an appointment...
melvin		Explain to me how you can diagnose someone as "obsessive compulsive disorder" and then act like I have any choice in barging in.
doctor		There's not going to be a debate. You must leave.
melvin		You said you could help me -- what was that -- a tease?
doctor		I can help you if you take the responsibility to keep regular app --
melvin		 You changed the room around...
doctor		Two years ago...
doctor		I also regrew my beard...  but you're not interested in changes in me... so it's like I always told you...  when it comes to people you...
melvin		Shhhhhhh. I don't have this mountain of available time...  I got to get to my restaurant on time. Do you know how hard it is for me to be here?
doctor		Yes.  No.
melvin		 What if this is as good as it gets?
cheryl		What the heck are those for?
melvin		No. No. Get Carol.
cheryl		I'm filling in. We don't know if she's coming back. She might have to get a job closer to home.
melvin		What are you trying to do to me?
cheryl		What the heck do you mean?
melvin		Hey, elephant girl, call her or something...  just let her do my one meal here. I'll pay whatever. I'll wait.  Do it!!!
manager		Out. Be silent or leave.
melvin		I'll be quiet. Just let me wait. No problem. Get her here -- have her get me two sausages, four bacon, two eggs over easy and coffee. I'm not a prick here -- I'm a great customer. This day is a disaster. I can't handle this, too.
manager		Get out immediately or there's going to be trouble.
melvin		There's going to be trouble???
melvin		Carol's last name?
busboy		Connelly.
melvin		I'm hungry.  You've upset my whole day. I haven't eaten.
carol		What are you doing here?
melvin		This is not a sexist thing. If you were a waiter I would still be here saying...
carol		Are you totally gone? This is my private home...
melvin		I am trying to keep emotions out of this. Even though this is an important issue to me and I have strong feelings about the subject.
carol		What subject? That I wasn't there to take crap from you and bring you eggs? Do you have any control over how creepy you allow yourself to get?
melvin		Yes, I do, as a matter of fact... and to prove it I have not gotten personal and you have. Why aren't you at work? You're not sick -- you don't look sick... just very tired and bitter.
carol		My son is sick, okay?
melvin		What about your mother?
carol		How do you know about my mother?
melvin		I hear you talk when I'm waiting!!!
carol		Sorry, honey...  I'll be right there.
melvin		 How ya doing?
melvin		 You should answer when someone talks to you...
carol		Sorry. There is a limit, Melvin, and I can't handle you teaching my son manners.
carol		We are going to treat ourselves to a cab ride.
carol		Melvin, wait!
school kids		Melvin, wait! Melvin, wait! Melvin, wait!
melvin		Shut up, kids!
carol		Melvin...  give us a lift. We've got to go see our friends at the hospital.
melvin		I'll ride up front. Cover your mouth when you cough, kid.
carol		Brooklyn Presbyterian Hospital, please and quickly please.
carol		 I owe you three dollars.
melvin		Yeah, yeah...  any chance you'll get back to work today?
carol		 No!!! Stay away from me!
jackie		I feel terrible that I have to... Simon? Forget about the dog for a second.
simon		Sorry. What are those cards?
jackie		 Frank's idea. He thought I should have notes so I did this right... maintained focus, didn't get emotional and tried not to terrify you.
simon		 Terrify me?
jackie		See, he's right. I need the cards.  Simon, you're broke.
simon		 I'm sorry. I know...
jackie		Frank loves you. You know that... but I've spoken to him and he feels that --  -- as a businessman, with limited resources...
simon		I'll be able to keep my apartment and studio, won't I?...  Just tell me.
simon		 Wow...
female executive		Now, on a pleasant note, our son got accepted at Brown. My husband...
melvin		 Great, wonderful. I don't need you to wait with me.
zoe		I can't resist. You usually move through here so quickly and I have so many questions I want to ask you. You have no idea what your work means to me.
melvin		What's it mean?
zoe		That somebody out there knows what it's like to be...  in here.
melvin		Oh God, this is like a nightmare.
zoe		Aw come on, just a couple of questions -- how hard is that?
zoe		How do you write women so well?
melvin		 I think of a man and take away reason and accountability.
carol		Hello? Hello?
carol		What? Please? Now? Tell me?!
carol		Not your name...  what are you telling me your name for!! Where is he?
carol		 Tell me how bad it is. I let him go out last night when it was so cool without an overshirt -- just and underone with just the straps and I know better...  and I let him talk me into it. He was whining and...  you don't need this. Give me a second to catch hold.
spencer		 Did you know there are doctors who come to your house?
carol		No, I didn't.  So why are you h...
beverly		I didn't know you had a secret admire.
carol		Huh?
beverly		You met the gift.
spencer		He's good...  And I'm an expert on doctors.
carol		 Stay out of this...  Doctor?
carol		I'm a waitress.
beverly		In Manhattan.
nurse		Sorry it took so long. I don't know Brooklyn.
carol		You're going to get the results today?!
carol		Since forever.
carol		Yes.
carol		Emergency room only.
carol		No.
carol		No. I asked. They said it's not covered under my plan. And it's not necessary anyway.
carol		Fucking H.M.O. bastard piece of shit...  I'm sorry...  forgive me.
carol		Once the tests come back, is there someone I can reach in your office for the results?
carol		His home number.
carol		 Do you want some juice or coffee or two female slaves?
carol		No.
carol		Doc!!!  So listen, you gotta let me know about the additional costs -- one way or the other we'll...
nora		You poor, poor man.
simon		Let's use just one poor, okay? Anyway, dear, thanks for everything. Forgive my recent crankiness and as soon as things are on track again I'll call.
simon		What's wrong?
nora		Who's going to walk Verdell?
simon		No, no.
melvin		Is he dead yet?
nora		No! Would there be any way for you to be willing to walk his dog for him?
melvin		Absolutely.
nora		Not just today -- Uh, could you do it -- until, until he gets back on his feet?
melvin		Sure thing.
nora		You're a wonderful man. Two o'clock is a good time. Here's the key in case he's asleep. Open the curtains for him, so he sees God's beautiful work and knows that even things like this happen for the best.
melvin		Where'd they teach you to talk like this -- some Panama City "Sailor want to hump-hump bar"? Or was today getaway day and your last shot at his whiskey. Sell crazy some place else -- we're all stocked up here.
carol		There is a seriously goofy man behind this. You are not allowed to block out that fact.
beverly		Do you really want to go back to the runt doctors in Emergency who keep telling us they can't help?
carol		It lets a crazy man into our lives.
beverly		Come on. Why fight when we know how it will come out. This isn't like stocking or a string of pearls. You don't send this one back.
simon		Hello?...  yes...  sure...  finally, huh? Why, "finally"? Because I called you so many times. Maybe 20.  So, you miss me a little? Hey, strike the question -- How's the case going? Really. Fantastic. I didn't hear. I haven't been watching. Great. Just great. I'm so happy. Whoopie! Me? Well, I'm mending. No, I look fine. Well, some of the damage might still be noticeable if you look closely...
simon		Carl, I need some help and you're the logical one to turn to.  I guess because you hired the guy who did this you think...  No, I am a sarcastic person. Well, if you must know, the reason I said you were the logical person is because you always told me how you thought I was this great person who made you feel good about humanity and everything. You do remembering saying that? Well, whew. Okay, so Carl. I hate asking but this money thing is ridiculously serious...
simon		"Will you please loan me money? I will pay you back. I will give you whatever percentage of my income I don't absolutely need until I do. It will take a while. But I don't know what I'll do if you say"... that.  Pal o' mine.
melvin		Maybe I'll bring him some food by.
simon		Thank you for walking him.
simon		If you'll excuse me I'm not feeling so well.
melvin		It smells like shit in here?
simon		Go away.
melvin		That cleaning woman doesn't...
simon		Please, just leave.
melvin		Where are all your queer party friends?
simon		 Get out.
simon		Nothing worse than having to feel this way in front of you?
melvin		Nellie, you're a disgrace to depression.
simon		Rot in hell, Melvin.
melvin		No need to stop being a lady... quit worrying -- you'll be back on your knees in no time.
simon		Is this fun for you? Well, you lucky devil...  It just gets better and better. I am losing my apartment and Frank wants me to promise to paint hotter subjects and to beg my parents, who haven't called, for help... and I won't. And I don't want to paint anymore.
simon		So the life I was trying for is over. The life I had is gone and I am feeling so damn sorry for myself that it is difficult to breathe. Right times for you -- huh, Melvin. The gay neighbor is terrified...  Terrified...  Lucky you, you're here for rock bottom...  me wallowing in self-pity in front of you, you absolute horror of a human being...
melvin		Well, I'll do one thing for you that might cheer you up.
simon		Get out.
melvin		Don't piss on a gift, tough guy. You want to know why the dog prefers me...  it's not affection. It's a trick.
melvin		I carry bacon in my pocket.
simon		 Oh, my gosh.
melvin		 Now we'll both call him.
simon		Come on, sweetheart...
melvin		Yo, yo, yo...
simon		Would you leave now, please?
melvin		Stupid dog.  I don't get it.
carol		Uh, Udall?
carol		Yes.
carol		The doctors had your billing address. I'm sorry about the hour.
melvin		I was working...  can't you just drop me a thank-you note?
carol		That's not why I'm here...  ...  though you have no idea what it's like to have a real conversation with a doctor about Spencer...
melvin		 Note. Put it in the note.
carol		Why did yo do this for me?
melvin		To get you back at work so you can wait on me.
carol		But you do have some idea how strange that sounds??? I'm worried that you did this because...
melvin		You waiting for me to say something?  What sort of thing do you want? Look, I'll be at the restaurant tomorrow.
carol		I don't think I can wait until tomorrow. This needs clearing up.
melvin		What needs clearing up?
carol		 I'm not going to sleep with you. I will never, ever sleep with you. Never. Not ever.
melvin		I'm sorry. We don't open for the no-sex oaths until 9 a.m.
carol		I'm not kidding.
melvin		Okay!!!! Anything else?!?
carol		Just how grateful I am.
melvin		So you'll be at work?
carol		Yes.
melvin		I took a chance you were up.
melvin		I brought you Chinese soup.
simon		Thanks.
melvin		I have never been so tired in my life. Okay, if I sit here?
simon		Got any easier questions?
melvin		I haven't been sleeping. I haven't been clear or felt like myself. I'm in trouble. Some son of a bitch is burning my bridges behind my back...  But the tiredness -- boy...  Not just sleepy.
simon		But sick -- nauseous -- where everything looks distorted and everything inside just aches -- when you can barely get up the will to complain.
melvin		 Yeah...
melvin		I'm glad we did this.
melvin		Good talking to you.
beverly		You're not still writing that thank-you note?
carol		I'm on the last page. How do you spell conscience?
beverly		C-o-n-s-c-i-e-n-c-e. I got Sean from the bakery to baby-sit so let's go out.
carol		I still don't feel safe leaving Spencer with someone. How do you spell it again?
beverly		Spencer is okay. You'd better start finding something else to do with your free time. If you can't feel good about this break and step out a little...  You ought to get Mr. Udall to send you over a psychiatrist.
carol		 This can't be right -- con- science.
beverly		Carol. What?
carol		I don't know... It's very strange not feeling that stupid panic thing inside you all the time. Without that you just start thinking about yourself -- and what does that ever get anybody. Today, on the bus there was this adorable couple and I felt myself giving them a dirty look -- I had no idea everything was...
beverly		Go ahead.
carol		 Oh, boy. Who needs these thoughts?
beverly		Spencer's doing fine. So what are you saying, that you're frustr...
carol		Leave me be! Why are you doing this? Why are you picking at my sores... What is it that you want?... You want what? What's with you? I hope getting me thinking of everything that's wrong when all I want is to not do this has some purpose.  What is it, Mom? No kidding.
carol		What is it you want? What?
beverly		I want us to go out.
carol		 Okay.
carol		 We're going out.
sean		 Looks like fun.
carol		Okay -- we're out of here. I love you.
carol		Do you love me?
spencer		Uh-huh.
beverly		Nice to get out, isn't it?
carol		Don't get it wet.
carol		So it's okay?
lisa		You almost have me liking him. You sure come from the heart. I never knew what you went through with everything.
carol		I wanted him to know how much he'd done.  Can you believe he's eating with someone.
melvin		It's not my dog and this Simon seems to have enough on his mind -- but he did throw up twice and his spark is off.
frank		Sure -- take him to the vet.
melvin		I did. And his stomach is out of whack. So they need him for a couple of days.
frank		Do it.
carol		Melvin.
melvin		What's this?
carol		 A thank-you note for what you did for me.
frank		She's nice.
melvin		 Really nice. Shouldn't that be a good thing... telling someone, 'no thanks required.'
frank		It looks like it really went over. You're sure making the rounds. Simon says you brought him soup last night. I hope he doesn't write you a note.
frank		What?
melvin		"What?" Look at you... You sense a mark.
frank		Hey -- you called me... I...
melvin		About a dog.
frank		Yeah, but it's all about Simon now... you helped with the dog... And now there are other things. I'm just as concerned as you are about Simon.
melvin		Concerned. I'm just the hall monitor here.
frank		It's not only financial assistance. What he's got to do is go to Baltimore tomorrow and ask his parents for money. It's not going to happen on the phone.
melvin		Yeah. If his parents are alive they've got to help -- those are the rules. Good.
frank		Yes. And tomorrow? I have a high maintenance selling painter coming through... So I'm out. Can you take him?
melvin		Think white and get serious.
frank		Take my car -- a convertible. Do you drive?
melvin		 Like the wind but I'm not doing it.
carol		Getting loud, getting loud.
melvin		He wants me to take his car and his client to Baltimore.
carol		I want your life for a minute where my big problem is someone offers me a free convertible so I can get out of this city.
melvin		Okay. I'll take him. Get him packed -- ready -- tomorrow morning.
melvin		 Okay... so I'll see you tomorrow. Let's not drag this out. We don't enjoy another that much.
frank		If there's some mental health foundation that raises money to help people like you be sure to let me know.
melvin		Last word freak.
carol		So. Anything else?
melvin		Yes. I'm going to give my queer neighbor a lift to Baltimore.
carol		Okay.
melvin		Hey, what I did for you is working out?
carol		 What you did changed my life.
melvin		No... no thank you notes.
carol		Well, part of what I said in this entire history of my life which you won't read is that somehow you've done more for my mother, my son and me, than anyone else ever has... And that makes you the most important, surprising, generous person I've ever met and that you be in our daily prayers forever.
melvin		Lovely.
carol		I also wrote one part... I wrote I'm sorry... I was talking about I was sorry when I got mad at you when you came over and you told my son that he ought to answer back so I wrote that.  I was sorry for busting you on that... and I'm sorry for busting in on you that night... when I said I was never... I was sorry and I'm sorry every time your food was cold and that you had to wait two seconds for a coffee filler...
carol		... and I'm sorry for never spotting, right there at the table in the restaurant, the human being that had it in him to do this thing for us... You know what, I'm just going to start from the beginning... I have not been able to express my gratefulness to you... even as I look at the word "grateful" now it doesn't begin to tell you what I feel for you...
melvin		Nice of you... thank you.
carol		Thank you.
melvin		Now I want you to do something for me.
carol		Oh, I'm sorry... Didn't I say, "what?" I thought I said, "what?"... What?
melvin		I want you to go on this trip.
carol		No, sir...
melvin		I can't do this alone. I'm afraid he'll pull the stiff one eye on me. I need you to chaperon. Separate everything but cars. You said you liked convertibles. Now I'm on the hook.
carol		The stiff one eye?
melvin		Two days.
carol		I can't. I work.
melvin		You take off when you have to.
carol		My son.
melvin		Bettes tells me he's doing fine.
carol		 Melvin, I'd rather not.
melvin		What's that got to do with it?
carol		Funny, I thought it was a strong point.
melvin		Write me a note and ain't she sweet. I need a hand and where'd she go.
carol		Are you saying accepting your help obligates me!?
melvin		Is there another way to see it?
carol		No.
carol		Well, here's a little suitcase shocked that it's been used.
carol		 There's not way to pack for this trip... well, I'll tell you -- I'm not packing the camera.
melvin		Woo-woo.
carol		Hello?
melvin		Are you still coming?
carol		Yes.
carol		Melvin... I'd like to know exactly where we are going.
melvin		Just south to Baltimore, Maryland. So I know what you're going to ask next.  That you might ask -- I'm not certain.
carol		There's... there's no need to bring anything dressy... or... I mean -- I didn't know if we'd be eating at any restaurant that have dress codes.
melvin		Oh.  We might. Yes. We can. Let's.
carol		Okay, gotcha. What did you think I was going to ask?
melvin		Whether crabs are in season there now...
carol		Oh. Okay, then -- Melvin. Good night.
beverly		How was it talking to him?
carol		Stop treating this like I'm going away with a man. He's just going to say those crappy, sick, complaining, angry things to me. I hate this, Mom -- I hate this. He's a freak show -- the worst person I ever met.
beverly		Well, maybe he has nice friends.
carol		 You stand there and I'll wave to you from the back window.
beverly		Call me as soon as you're settled.
carol		 I love you.
carol		 Sensitive, huh?!
veterinarian		Anything unusual in the dog's diet?
melvin		No. Everybody gets their own cage?
veterinarian		Certainly.
melvin		 ... Builds his confidence.
frank		I'm sorry that I'm not taking you.
simon		 So am I, Frank.
melvin		Soak it up -- it's your last chance at a hug for a few days.
carol		Hi.
melvin		Thanks for being on time... Carol, the waitress, this is Simon, the fag.
carol		Hello... Oh, my God, who did that to you?
simon		I, uh... I was... attacked. Walked in on people robbing me. I was hospitalized. I almost died.
melvin		Let's do the small talk in the car. Load up.
melvin		I was going to do that for you.
carol		 It's okay. No problem. Where should we sit?
melvin		 I -- uh, I... Well, there is no place cards or anything.
carol		 Let me go in back. You look like you need all the room you can manage.
simon		That's very thoughtful.
melvin		Never a break. Never.
melvin		You're really jammed back there.
carol		Thanks, Melvin.
melvin		Welcome.
melvin		I got the whole ride programmed.
melvin		Just wanted to see what you'd do. No, we have greatness here.
carol		I don't know the last time I've been out of the city... Hey, my arms are tanning. I used to tan great. We gotta stop soon so'se I can check on Spencer.
simon		 I'm sorry... I can't hear you. I can't turn my head all the way yet... tell her we can't hear her.
melvin		Doesn't matter. She's enjoying herself. Consider it part of the music.
carol		I'm sure, Simon, they did something real off for you to feel this way... But when it comes to your partners -- or your kid -- things will always be off for you unless you set it straight. Maybe this thing happened to you just to give you that chance.
melvin		Nonsense!
carol		Anybody here who's interested in what Melvin has to say raise their hands.
simon		Do you want to know what happened with my parents?
carol		Yes. I really would.
simon		Well...
carol		No, let me pull over so I can pay full attention.
carol		Now go ahead.
simon		Well, I always painted. Always. And my mother always encouraged it. She was sort of fabulous about it actually... and she used to... I was too young to think there was anything at all wrong with it... and she was very natural. She used to pose nude for me... and I thought or assumed my father was aware of it.
melvin		This stuff is pointless.
carol		Hey -- you let him...
melvin		You like sad stories -- you want mine.
carl		. Go ahead, Simon. Really. Please. Don't let him stop you. Ignore him.
simon		Okay. Well, one day my father came in on one of those painting sessions when I was nine -- and he just started screaming at her -- at us -- at evil. And...
melvin		 ... my father didn't leave his room for 11 years -- he hit my hand with a yardstick if I made a mistake on the piano.
carol		Go ahead, Simon. Your father walked in on you and was yelling and... really, come on.
simon		I was trying to defend my mother and make peace, in the lamest way. I said, "she's not naked -- it's art." And then he started hitting me. And he beat me unconscious. After that he talked to me less and less -- he knew before I left for college, my dad came into my room. He held out his hand. It was filled with money. A big wad of sweaty money.  And he said to me, "I don't want you to ever come back." I grabbed him and I hugged him... He turns and walked out.
carol		Well, you know -- I still stay what I said. You've got to get past it all when it comes to your parents. We all have these horror stories to get over.
melvin		That's not true. Some of us have great stories... pretty stories that take place at lakes with boats and friends and noodle salad. Just not anybody in this car. But lots of people -- that's their story -- good times and noodle salad... and that's what makes it hard. Not that you had it bad but being that pissed that so many had it good.
carol		No.
simon		Not it at all, really.
melvin		 Not at all, huh?!... Let's go to the hotel. And if you're lucky tomorrow Dad will give you another wad of sweaty money.
melvin		Two bedrooms and the sofa opens...
carol		 No answer... Maybe we should just drive there tomorrow. Can I have that one?
melvin		Yes... sure.  I'll take the sofa.
carol		 Hello... Hi, Spencer... Why are you out of breath? You did?!? That is great... So great... So -- no, wait a second, Spence...
melvin		Can I ask you a personal question?
melvin		Do you ever get an erection for a woman?
simon		Melvin...
melvin		Wouldn't your lie be a lot easier if you were not...
simon		You consider your life easy.
melvin		I give you that one...  Nice packing.
carol		My son was outside playing soccer. I never saw him playing ball. Come on, you guys -- take me out for a good time... Take me out dancing.
melvin		Dancing?
simon		I can't, I'm exhausted.
carol		 I don't blame you... This is a monumental first day out... You sad or anything?
simon		No... Nervous. It would be very rough, Carol, if you weren't along.
carol		What a nice compliment.
carol		I'm happy. And you're my date. Let's get dressed.
melvin		I'm going to jump in the shower. I'll be right with you.
valet		Good evening, sir.
melvin		They sell hard shell crabs here?
valet		Yes.
head waiter		Good evening.
melvin		Hi. You have hard shells, right?
carol		Stop asking everyone.
melvin		Just him and that's it. Okay, you can answer -- we've worked it out.
head waiter		Yes, we do... And I can give you a tie and jacket.
melvin		What?
head waiter		They require a tie and jacket but we have some available.
melvin		No... I'm not wearing that -- and just in case you were going to ask I'm not going to let you inject me with plaque either.
carol		You promised a nice place -- can't you just...  You have these dry cleaned all the time, don't you?
head waiter		Actually, I don't think so.
melvin		 Wait here.
salesman		Good evening.
melvin		I need a coat and tie.
salesman		Come on in.
melvin		No.
salesman		No?
melvin		 That jacket and give me a tie.
melvin		You have hard shells?
melvin		Everyone else says you do.
head waiter		Shall I get her for you?
melvin		No, it's all right. I'll just watch.
carol		 My drink is following me.
carol		You look s...
carol		You look great.
carol		You wanna dance?
melvin		I've been thinking about that since you brought it up before.
carol		 And?
melvin		No...  ... I don't get this place. They make me buy an outfit but they let you wear a house dress. I don't get it.
melvin		No. Wait. What? Why? I didn't mean it. You gotta sit down. You can still give me the dirty look... just sit down and give it to me.
carol		Melvin, pay me a compliment... I need one and quick... You have no idea how much what you said just hurt my feelings.
melvin		 That monominute somebody gets that you need them they threaten to go away. Never fails.
carol		That's not compliment, Melvin... That's just trying to sound smart so I feel stupid... A compliment is something nice about somebody else... Now or never.
melvin		Okay.
carol		 And mean it...
melvin		Can we order first?
melvin		 Baked or fries?
carol		Fries.
melvin		 One baked -- one fries.
startled waiter		 I'll tell your waiter.
melvin		 Okay, I got a real great compliment for you and it's true.
carol		I am so afraid you're about to say something awful...
melvin		Don't be pessimistic. It's not your style. Okay... Here I goes... Clearly a mistake.  I have this -- what? Ailment... And my doctor -- a shrink... who I used to see all the time... he says 50 or 60 percent of the time a pill can really help. I hate pills. Very dangerous things, pills. "Hate," I am using the word "hate" about pills. My compliment is that when you came to my house that time and told me how you'd never -- well, you were there, you know... The next morning I started taking these pills.
carol		 I don't quite get how that's a compliment for me.
melvin		You make me want to be a better man.
carol		That's maybe the best compliment of my life.
melvin		Then I've really overshot here 'cause I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out.
carol		So how are you doing with those pills? Well, I hopahopahopa.
melvin		Takes months to know... They work little by little.  Talking like this is exhausting.
carol		Have you ever let a romantic moment make you do something you know is stupid?
melvin		Never.
carol		Here's the trouble with never.
melvin		You don't owe me that.
carol		That wasn't payment. When you first came into breakfast, when I saw you -- I thought you were handsome... Then, of course, you spoke... So now that your soft li'l underbelly is all exposed. Tell me, why did you bring me?
melvin		Well, ah... that's a personal question.
carol		Tell me even if you're scared. Tell me why you wanted me here. It's okay.
carol		If you ask me... I'll say, "yes."
melvin		 There are lots of reason... I had a thought that if you had sex with Simon it might...
carol		 Sex with Simon?
melvin		It's one idea...
carol		That's why you brought me? Look at me! Is that really why you brought me... Like I'm a what and I owe you what?!
melvin		I don't know why I brought you -- that idea occurred to me is all... It came out first... Hey, you kiss him -- me... He says he loves you. You two hit it off. But you don't want to... fine... Forget what I said about sex with Simon. It was a mistake.
carol		 I'll never forget you said it.
melvin		It was a mistake.
parents' voice		 We are sorry to be unable to take your call right now. Please leave a message and we'd appreciate your including the time/date and purpose of your call. (Simon mouths the word "date," then Betty speaks before the beep Bye-bye.
simon		Ah, this is Simon... I'm here in town...  ... and, folks, you haven't come home later than 10 in your lives. Please pick up -- really... Okay... I'm going to call again in the morning. I need to see you. Or, at least get you to answer the phone.
simon		Hello... Hello???
simon		Was this supposed to be your room?
carol		Our room. I don't want to see him and he's not going to come knocking on your door.
simon		Can you not be violent?
carol		I don't think so. You need help with the pants?
simon		 No!!!
carol		I'm going to take a big bath and order a big meal.
simon		Uh-huh...
carol		I'm sorry... are you okay?
simon		Well, considering everything's horrible and tomorrow I have to face my parents... Don't ask me ... I'm sick of my own complaints ... got to get me a new set of thoughts.
carol		Why? What have you been thinking about?
simon		How to die, mostly.
carol		Can you believe in our little mix you're the good roommate.
simon		 Good night.
carol		Good night.
simon		 Hold it.
simon		I've got to sketch you.
carol		No... Absolutely not. I'm shyer than you think. I give the wrong impression sometimes and...
simon		I haven't even been thinking about sketching for weeks.
carol		Stop staring. Do a vase.
simon		But you're beautiful... your skin glows.
carol		Thanks. But I just want to take a bath and...
simon		That long neck -- the line of you... you're porcelain... your back goes on forever. You're classic... you're why cavemen chiseled on walls...
carol		All right, cut me a break.
melvin		So then, the next thing I know, she's sitting right next to me, and then, well, it's not right to go into the details, but I screwed up. I got nervous. I said the wrong thing and if I hadn't, I could be in bed now with a woman who if you could make her smile you got a life. Instead, I'm here with you, no offense, a moron pushing the last legal drug.
simon		No. No. This is great, this is so great. I can't get the angle with this cast.
melvin		Did you have sex with her?
melvin		Sorry, didn't realize she was right there.  Did you have sex with her?
carol		To hell with sex.
carol		We held each other. It was better than sex. What I need he gave me great.
simon		I just love her.  How're you doing?
simon		Hello, hi, Mom -- I can barely hear you. Do you have to whisper? No -- don't apologize -- it was the luckiest thing for all of us that you didn't answer last night... I can't hear you... okay, dear, just listen to me then.
melvin		I get why you're angry. It's no snap to explain why I was like that, but let's not try to do it on the run...
simon		... so Mom. Truly no grudges -- truly. A little odd that you didn't come to see me when you heard I was hurt, but the important thing I want you to know is your son is happy. I'm working again. I'll make do -- I don't want a thing. Wouldn't take it if it was offered. I'll drop you a note from wherever I land and then it's up to you. I hope we patch things up but know that if we don't, I wish you both the very best... I can't hear you. You heard me, though, right? Good -- take good care. 'Bye.
melvin		... Now he's going to want to stay. And they'll want to take a ride to the lake or whatever. So it's a good five hours back. It gives us a chance to take it easy and...
simon		I'm going back with you.
carol		But what about...
simon		I'll take care of myself --
melvin		What are you talking about? You got real problems.
simon		I know. I'm a little bit nervous. Suddenly everything seems so easy. Carol, a load has been lifted.
carol		One night with me!
simon		You think you're kidding.
melvin		 Aww Jesus! No choice.
carol		I got a gift for you.
melvin		 Nothing like no choice to make you feel at home.
carol		 Let me see... Ahh, gorgeous!
melvin		Do it then. Get the dog picked up. I can't believe you let it stay there.
melvin		Good-bye.  Well, your luck is holding. They sublet your place. You're homeless. Frank's got a line on another place you can use for now.
simon		Another place where?
melvin		Does it matter?
carol		I don't want to hear that music right now.
melvin		What do you mean? You said you liked it.
carol		I don't.
melvin		This one has a special meaning.
carol		It's your car but I don't want to hear it. If that means anything.
melvin		Here are the keys to my apartment. I'm going to park you in my place while I take Carol home.
carol		 I'll take a bus.
melvin		I'll take you... why not?
carol		I don't care what you did for me. I don't think I want to know you anymore -- all you do is make me feel badly about myself.  You have my number.
simon		 Let him take you home.
carol		Don't want to. I love you.
melvin		Don't say anything.
melvin		I think you gotta camp it here...
simon		What are you talking about?
simon		 I know the feeling -- you feel like your ol' self again, huh? -- Mommy and Daddy are home.
simon		Sorry... You're fun to mess with.
melvin		They took your place furnished. Jackie said she grabbed your personal stuff -- they were supposed to set you up here.  There's this extra room -- I never use. It gets good light. No other answer really.
simon		Thank you, Melvin. You overwhelm me.
melvin		They did a nice job... Cozy, huh?
simon		I love you.
melvin		I'll tell you, buddy, I'd be the luckiest guy alive if that did it for me.
simon		Sorry, didn't know you were awake. I just thought Verdell shouldn't get too used to sleeping in here 'cause then...
melvin		Look, we both want the dog -- and...
simon		Should I get it?
simon		 Hello. It's me. He took me in. Did you know? Hold on, I'll get him for you.
simon		It's Carol.
melvin		Here. Take the dog.
simon		Good luck.
melvin		Hello.
carol		Yeah... Well...
melvin		 How you doing?
carol		I can trust my brain.
melvin		That seems like a good choice.
carol		I don't know whether I'm being sensible or hard on you.
melvin		The two might go together.
carol		See. There's an example. I don't know whether you're being cute or crazy now.
melvin		 Cute.
carol		You don't have to answer everything I say. Just listen to me. Okay?
carol		It's really something that you're looking after Simon. And what I said on the street. That was a bad thing to say. And it made me sick to my stomach. It was a bad thing to say. And I'd be lying if I didn't say that I enjoyed your company... but the truth is you do bother me enormously and I know -- think -- that it's best for me to not have contact with you because you're just not ready and you're a pretty old guy to not be ready... and I'm too old to ignore that. But there were extraordinary kindnesses that did take place. So thanks for the trips...
melvin		Okay to say something now?
carol		Go ahead.
melvin		I should've danced with you.
carol		Okay. Good-bye.
melvin		So long.
melvin		You going to come talk to me or not?
simon		I'm coming.
simon		What did she say?
melvin		I'm a great guy -- "extraordinary"...  I'm dying here.
simon		Because...  ... you love her?
melvin		 No... and you're supposed to be sensitive and sharp.
simon		Okay... you tell me why --  "You're dying here."
melvin		I don't know... Let me sleep on it and figure it out.  Because I'm stuck! Can't go back to what I had... She's evicted me from my life.
simon		Did you like it that much?
melvin		 It was better than this... Look, you, I'm very intelligent. If you're going to give me advice or conversation or consolation or hope, you got to be better than you're doing. If you can't be at least momentarily interesting than shut the hell up. I'm drowning and you're describing water.
simon		 Picking on me won't help.
melvin		Well, if that's true then I'm really in trouble.
simon		But you know where you're lucky?
melvin		Absolutely not.
simon		You know who you want. I'll take your seat any day. So do something... don't sleep on it... go over there. I don't think anybody should ever sleep on anything -- it's not always good to let things calm down.
melvin		Hey... I'm charged here. But she might kill me for showing up this late.
simon		Then get in your jammies and I'll read you a story... I think you've got a chance. The only real enemy you have is her ability to think logically -- the best thing you have going for you is your willingness to humiliate yourself if it gives you one chance in whatever -- so go catch her off- guard.
melvin		Okay. Thanks a lot. Here I go.
simon		What's wrong?
melvin		I forgot to lock the door.
carol		What do you want, Melvin?
melvin		Were you asleep?
carol		What do you want?
melvin		'Cause if you were asleep -- I'm sorry. And you could be grouchy.
carol		Grouchy?
melvin		... 'Cause of being woken up, and it would make my job impossible. So then I wouldn't even try.
carol		What job?
melvin		Were you asleep?
carol		What are you doing here?
melvin		I'm sorry I woke you -- some other time.
carol		I wasn't asleep!!
melvin		What a break...
carol		 Is it a secret what you're doing here?
melvin		I had to see you...
carol		Because...
melvin		It relaxes me... I'd feel better just sitting on the curb in front of your house than anyplace else I can think of or imagine.
melvin		 Wait a minute, I'm overstating here, maybe the inside stairs. I don't want to sit with my feet in the gutter. What does that serve? It only...
carol		Stop it!! Why can't I have a normal boyfriend??? Why? Get out of here. Just a regular boyfriend who doesn't go nuts on me...
beverly		 Sorry... didn't mean to interrupt.
melvin		 Boyfriend?
carol		Oh, come on in and try not to ruin everything by being you.
melvin		Maybe we could live without the wise cracks.
carol		Maybe we could...
melvin		It feels a little confined here. Let's take a walk.
carol		See. It's four in the morning. A walk sounds a little screwy to me, if you don't mind.
melvin		If you need an excuse, there's a bakery on the corner. There's a shot it'll open soon -- that way we're not screwy -- we're just two people who like warm rolls.
carol		Okay.
carol		 I'm sorry, Melvin -- but whatever this is -- is not going to work.
melvin		I'm feeling... I've been feeling better.
carol		Melvin, even though it may seem that way now -- you don't know me all that well...  I'm not the answer for you.
melvin		Hey, I've got a great compliment for you.
carol		You know what? I...
melvin		Just let me talk.  ... in how you say what you mean and how you almost always mean something that's all about being straight and good...
melvin		I think most people miss that about you and I watch wondering how they can watch you bring them food and clear their dishes and never get that they have just met the greatest woman alive... And the fact that I get it makes me feel great... about me!  You got a real good reason to walk out on that?
carol		No! It's certainly not. No -- I don't think so. No.
melvin		 I didn't mean it to be a question. I'm gonna grab you.
melvin		I know I can do better.
carol		Warm rolls...
****Dialogues from script :Assassins.txt****

ketcham		Aw-shit!
ketcham		How much farther?
rath		Just a little ways.  Up to those trees.
ketcham		Oh, fuck it.
ketcham		Hey, this feels kinda good.
ketcham		Hey, do you mind if I talk a little?  I feel like, I don't know, talking I guess.
rath		Sure.
ketcham		Funny, I've never been a talker. My wife was always getting on me about that.  'Say what you feel, tell me what's bothering you, you ve got to talk to me.'  I never would though.  Not really.
rath		Why not?
ketcham		I don't know.  Part of me wanted to but part of me always said, 'What's she going to be able to do?'  I don't know.  Maybe I didn't trust her.
ketcham		My Margaret... I loved her but you know what?  I cheated on her.  All the time.  I don't even know why. It wasn't the sex, Margaret was great in bed.  I think if I wasn't married I wouldn't have even looked at some of those women.  I knew she couldn't trust me, so how could I trust her?  If she was here right now I'd think that I would tell her that I was sorry... 'course, if she were here right now, maybe I wouldn't feel like talking.
ketcham		I think I've heard of you.
rath		It's possible.
ketcham		You're pretty famous aren't you?
rath		I hope not.
ketcham		I know this may seem like a strange question, but can I ask you how much the contract was for -- not to insult you or anything, I know you're a professional, but just for me, I was just wondering.
rath		It's a common question.
ketcham		Oh yeah?  I guess we still need to see that price tag.  Like art, right?  You hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in your living room only if it costs a bundle.
rath		A dime.
ketcham		One hundred thousand?  That's it? Jesus... Is that a lot?
rath		Average.
ketcham		Shit... oh well.
ketcham		I have been thinking about this for a long while.  I knew this day was coming.  I knew someday someone would make the call on me. I never thought about anyone that I had whacked.  What do you call it anyway?
rath		Taken.
ketcham		'Taken.'  That's nice.  When I had someone taken I would call our General Contractor, transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them.
rath		Everyone who plays the game knows the rules.
ketcham		That's exactly what I told myself.
ketcham		I always wondered what I'd be thinking at this exact moment.  I imagined that I would be thinking about the fucker who contracted this, trying to figure out who it was...
rath		Don't know.  That's how it works.
ketcham		That's what our General Contractor told us but how can you trust someone like that?
rath		Right.
ketcham		I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret, or work, or that I'd be having these deep, profound and depressing thoughts but I'm not.  I'm trying to think really profound thoughts, but I can't. It seems very funny to me.
rath		What are you thinking about?
ketcham		I'm thinking about Moonpies.  Ain't that funny?  I haven't had a Moonpie since I was ten years old. Right now, I'm thinking how much I'd love one.
rath		And an R.C.
ketcham		Can I ask you something?
rath		Go ahead.
ketcham		What do other guys do?
rath		Everyone handles it differently. Some are ready, some are not.
ketcham		Do they get down on their knees, begging and crying?
rath		Some.
ketcham		When I thought about this, that was always there, in the back of my head, that image of me on my knees, crying.  It wouldn't go away and it would really upset me. It was something that I could never get away from... but now, I feel it's okay.  I feel good.
rath		Can I ask you a question?
ketcham		Anything.
rath		Why didn't you fade?
ketcham		You mean quit?
rath		Yeah.
ketcham		I used to think about it.  I had Margaret.  She wanted kids.  I thought about moving somewhere far away like, Europe.  I could see all of that, the first part, the getting away but I couldn't see that next part.  'Then what?' So I'd stop thinking about it and go back to work.  You understand?
rath		Yeah.
ketcham		I always pictured that I would end in some land fill, under someone else's garbage.  I kept picturing those plastic diapers filled with some baby's green shit, covering me.  But this is nice...
ketcham		Look at that.  I haven't watched the sun set in a million years. Do you mind?
rath		No.
ketcham		Nice... real nice.
rath		Yes.  Please come in.
escort		Goodness, it's so dark...
rath		I prefer it like this.
escort		How can a beautiful man like you be shy?
rath		I prefer it, that's all.
escort		It's okay, honey.  We can do it anyway you want.
rath		Would you like a drink?
escort		I'd love one.  Whatever you're having.
escort		Beautiful.
escort		Good will towards men.
rath		Why are you working today?
escort		Holidays are our busiest days.  No one likes to be alone on holidays. I know I don't.
rath		You're very good at this aren't you?
escort		I think you're supposed to answer that question.
rath		I know what you expect, but I don't want...
escort		That's okay, hon, I always expect the unexpected.
rath		I called because I just want... I need to talk.
rath		I've been thinking about my life, about things I have done... What I do for a living is in some ways similiar to what you do.
rath		I know that everything has a price.  I want you to understand that I'm willing to pay.
escort		For what?
rath		Honesty.
rath		I just want to ask you some questions.
rath		Do you ever regret things you've done?
escort		Everyone regrets something.
rath		But when you finLsh a job, afterwards do you think about them?
escort		Sometimes.
rath		Do you think about their wives or their families?
escort		No.  They call me, I don't call them.  If they didn't call I wouldn't exist.
rath		Do you ever think about starting over?
escort		All the time.
rath		Can you tell me about it?
escort		Sometimes I dream that I meet a man, this good, honest man and we fall in love.  I imagine us living on a boat, reading books, sailing to places where no one knows who we were or cares what we did.
rath		And what if you never meet that man?
escort		Then, I'll sail alone.
rath		Do you believe that?
escort		Are you asking me if I believe in another life?
escort		I have to.
escort		Is that all you want?
rath		Yes.
rath		Thank you.
escort		Anytime.
rath		Fuck you, Nick.
rath		I don't give a fuck --
rath		Fuck you, fuck Cleveland, and fuck your contracts --
rath		You fucking should be --
leevio		Don't!
bain		Don't anybody move.  You move, you're dead.
bain		Come on, you chicken shit motherfucker.  I know you're here. Let's go.
bain		You!  Get up!
bain		You, too!  Up!
bain		Not yet.  Don't move or you're fucking dead.
rath		Shit.  Just do them all.  All of them.  Shit.
bain		Now run!
rath		Shit.  What are you doing, old man? You're too fucking slow.
rath		Okay.  Which one?  Which one is yours?
rath		Amateur.
bain		Fuck!
rath		Your move.
bain		Don't shoot!  Don't shoot!  I give up!
cop		Hit the ground!  Face down!  Spread your legs!
bain		Hey, don't touch that!
cop		Shut up!
rath		Son of a bitch.
rath		I'm not done yet.
bain		Is there a problem?
rath		No.  No problem.  The airport, right?
bain		Right.
rath		How'd you cut yourself?
bain		Oh?  Working.  A little accident.
rath		You a waiter?  You look like a waiter.
bain		Yeah.  Yeah, I'm a waiter.
rath		Where?
bain		What?
rath		What restaurant?
bain		Uh, Fontella's
rath		So you're from around here?
bain		No.  No I'm not.
rath		Where you from?
bain		What is this?
rath		Not too good at small talk, eh?
bain		Look, I'm real tired and I'm not interested in fucking chit-chat.
rath		I know just what you mean.  I'm pretty beat myself.
rath		Since you looked like a waiter, I had to ask what restaurant because of what happened at the Trattoria Roma.
bain		Why?  What happened?
rath		Didn't you here all them sirens? It's been all over the radio.  Some guy shot Leevio Valli, and a bunch of bystanders, in the Trattoria Roma.
bain		No shit.
rath		Yeah, it's terrible.  I mean Valli, and I don't care what office he's running for, the guy's a crook.  He probably had it coming, but all the other people.  Real sad.
bain		Yeah.
rath		But they caught the guy.  I heard it all.  Sounded like he just went berserk, fucking loco.  Shooting anybody.  Drugs, probably.
bain		Probably.
rath		I'd love to sit in that jury.  Send that S.O.B. right to the chair.
bain		Sizzle lean.
bain		What are you doing?
rath		What?
bain		That was Peterson back there.  That goes to the expressway for the airport.
rath		You're right.  Talking too much again.
bain		Yeah well, you just blew your tip, pal.
rath		What?  You think I'm running you up?
bain		Just do your job.
bain		What are you doing?
rath		Get out.  You think I'm running you up?  Get out.
bain		You can't --
rath		The hell I can't.  It's my cab.  I don't like you.  So, get the hell out!
bain		Holy fucking shit!
bain		I get out, you got me.
bain		Now what?
rath		We're both going to the airport.
rath		Sit back.  Put your seatbelt on.
bain		No fucking way.
rath		Okay, don't.
rath		If either of us fucks around, the other can blow the fuel line.
bain		Jesus -- I'm being driven to the airport by Robert Rath.
bain		I can't believe this.  You rolled some cabby for the radio, then waited for an airport fare.
bain		Boy, that's fucking genius.  You're a fucking genius.  Then you're just sitting there, bullshitting with me. Man, no way I coulda done that!
rath		What's your name?  We both know it's not Nicholai.
bain		Holy shit!  Robert Rath wants to know my name.
bain		Bain.  Michael Bain.
rath		How long have you been freelance?
bain		Two years.  Two long fucking years.
bain		Hey.  What I don't get was why didn't you take the shot inside the restaurant?  I mean you had me, a free shot.  That's what I would have done.
rath		It's just a shoot-out then.  Sixty- forty, at best.  Not my odds.
bain		Sounds like chickenshit --
bain		Listen to me calling you chickenshit!
bain		Is that a wig?  Shit, I hate wigs! Wigs are the worst part of this job. I'd rather dye my hair than wear a wig.
rath		You're wearing a wig now.
bain		God damn are you good.  Everyone says you're so fucking good.  I just can't believe I'm still alive.  If I believed in God, I'd be down on my knees.  Right now -- Hey, how come you just didn't plug us all when we came through the door?
bain		Shit if I was you, back there --
bain		Game over.
bain		Do you mind if I ask you a couple of business questions?  You know I was wondering how much you bid this job at?
bain		You don't have to tell me that. It's just, I know my bid was low, but was it too low?  I mean, did I seem like an amateur, like I didn't know what I was doing?
rath		We both know what you were doing.
bain		Smith and Wesson .22 with an eight inch silencer.  Classic.  When I first heard you used that, I thought, shit, that's a lady's gun. Now, it's all I use.  Clean, real clean.
bain		Would you really blow us?
bain		Oh!  I got a question.  Jesus, this has been driving me crazy for years -- shit, listen to me.  I sound like some fucking fanboy.  I'm sorry, but I just got to ask you.  Everybody talks about how you left the Agency and got into the business and then how you went after the Russian, Nicholai Talinkov --
rath		Tachlinkov.
bain		Yeah, that's it.  And he's like a fucking genius.  They said he shaded you over and over.  And in the end, he aced you again.  Shaded and faded.  They say he's living on some Greek island, but I say that's fucking bullshit.  I say you're the best and that you planted his ass. Am I right?
bain		I bet I'm right.
bain		Robert Bain, driving me!  Jesus fucking Christ!
rath		After those cops, you'll never be able to come back to Cleveland.
bain		Who the fuck cares about Cleveland. Cleveland blows.  What kind of marks have they got here?  Greasy mobster, teamster or some hand job politician.  I want the money marks. I want the marks that you get.
bain		So what happens now?
rath		We go around once.
bain		Bullshit.
bain		You tell me that we're gonna go around once, then, while I'm checking out the lay of the land, you bail out and send me flying over the bridge.  Right?  Am I right?
rath		Okay.
bain		What?  What's okay?
bain		What are you doing?
rath		There's a sand barricade up ahead; I'm going to ram this cab into it. The cab has an airbag, odds are good I'll survive.  But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass, odds for you are not so good.
bain		Oh man, that's sweet.  That's fucking sweet.
bain		You're bluffing.
bain		You're fucking with me.  You want me to jump.  I jump, you hit the brakes and bang -- Game over.
bain		No, no.  Wait.  You don't want me to jump.  You're going to jump.  I'm stuck back here until it's too late. Wham -- over!
rath		I know you're going to jump.
rath		You're still young.  Young enough to still think you're indestructible. Invincible.  You believe with utter certainty you can bail out at the last second and survive.
rath		If you do survive, we'll see each other again.
electra		Jerk.
electra		Mmm, smell that, Nikita?
electra		I hope she saves some for us.
electra		Crap.
electra		I wasn't watching television.
electra		I thought it was interesting --
electra		Right.  In my hands I have five back-up disks he made of all of his work last night.
electra		I'll make my usual arrangements and expect my usual bonus.
electra		A pleasure doing business with you.
rath		I bet you fucking know!
rath		I give a fuck?  I'm done!  I quit! Do you fucking hear me!  I'm fucking gone!
rath		I'm being set up.  Fucking set up!
rath		Is this how it went, Nick?
rath		A joke?  A joke?
rath		You think this is a fucking joke?
rath		A player?
rath		Sorry.  My mistake.
rath		Hi.  Up ahead my boss is in that black limo.  We're not sure which hotel we're at, so could you just follow them?
cabby		Sure.
akira		Hello?
akira		Your Japanese is excellent.
electra		I'll call you again in twenty minutes.
electra		Excuse me, your Highness.
rath		One vegetarian plate and a can of
electra		Ten thousand dollars per disk. Insert the first disk now.
bain		Yes!
bain		Surprise!
electra		Oh, God.
akira		Don't kill me.
rath		Don't be stupid and you will live.
rath		Hurry.
rath		Turn here.
rath		How many bodies were there?
electra		What?
rath		He has to clean up.  How many bodies were there?
electra		Um, five.
rath		One hour per man.
bain		Hi.  This is room 1414 --
bain		Yes, could you send up a pot of coffee and my friends are going to need some more towels.  Thanks.
rath		Get on the expressway.
electra		Where are we going?
rath		Nowhere yet.
electra		Nikita, hush.
electra		She won't stop unless you let her out.
rath		Nikita?  She helped me find you.
electra		What?  How did you know I had a cat?
rath		Took a guess.  Lucky for you, I guessed right.
electra		Who the fuck are you?  Who do you work for?
rath		I work for the government.
electra		Yeah?
electra		Bullshit.
rath		Yeah.
electra		You're one of them, aren't you?  A fucking pro.
rath		I'm part of the game, just like you.
electra		Jesus!
electra		What do you think you're doing?
rath		Twenty large?  That's all?
electra		What do you mean, 'that's all'? What in the hell do you know?
rath		The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars.
rath		Slow down.
rath		I figure that means these are worth ten times that, maybe more.
electra		Ten million --
rath		Now you understand why I'm here.
rath		I really think you should slow down.
bellboy		Hello, sir.  Have you some luggage you need carried.
bain		Indeed I do.
electra		Now what?
rath		Turn off the engine.
electra		You want me to pump?
rath		No, stay in the car.  I want you to understand something.  If I intended to kill you, you would already be dead.
electra		Okay, Nikita, stay calm, think, breathe, think...
electra		Come on, come on, it's a cake walk.
rath		Oh shit.
electra		Please, please.
rath		Dammit.
jennifer		Excuse me --
jennifer		You live here, don't you?
jennifer		I'm sorry, this may sound really weird, but my friend told me he slipped a letter under the door here and I was wondering if you happened to see it?
electra		Letter?
jennifer		Yeah.  He said he saw a woman with dark hair going into the building when he dropped it off.
electra		No.  I don't have it.
jennifer		I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to -- I'm sorry.
bain		Fuck me!
rath		Want a drink?
rath		Okay...
rath		I'm not good at this sort of thing, but we don't have a lot of time, so I'll just go ahead and get started. First:  you.  I ask myself, 'What is she thinking?'
rath		Simple.  She's scared.  She's almost been killed twice and now she is alone in a room with a man that she believes is an... assassin.
rath		Furthermore she was brought here not entirely on her own accord which only increases her fear and suspicion.  Thus, as long as she is afraid, her first, maybe her only thought will be escape.  Does that leave me any other option?
rath		No.
rath		The gun is silenced.  She could shoot me right now.
rath		She could take the car and be far from here before the maid comes in the morning, but --
electra		Shut up!
electra		Stop trying to tell me what I'm thinking!
electra		I'll tell you what you're thinking -- you think I'm not going to shoot you but right now you're not so sure, are you?
electra		You're thinking that maybe it was a mistake to give me this gun, that maybe I'm not going to think about things logically because I'm a woman and I'm freaked out and I'm going to do something impulsive and irrational -- right?
electra		You don't know shit about me!  Now sit down!
electra		Okay.  How did you find me?
rath		You're the computer hacker, you tell me.
electra		You didn't know anything about me.
electra		Nikita?
rath		Yellow Pages.  V for veterinarian. There aren't that many.
electra		You're one of them, aren't you?
rath		'Them'?
electra		An assassin?
rath		Until a minute ago.
electra		What does that mean?
rath		If I still was what I used to be, you would not be pointing that at me.
electra		Who is that other guy?
rath		Another contractor.
electra		Someone hired both of you?
rath		No.  They hired Bain.  The contract would have been mine, but Bain took it from me as he took the previous one.
electra		So this is something between you and him?
rath		He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him.
electra		Why?
rath		Because he is trying to retire me.
electra		He wants to kill you?
rath		Yes.
electra		Why?
rath		The nature of the business.  You remove your competition.
electra		And you want to use me to get him?
rath		Yes.
electra		Forget it!
rath		We don't have a choice.
electra		Don't tell me I don't have a choice!
rath		Right.
electra		I'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you've got two seconds to tell me why I shouldn't shoot you.
rath		It's simple.  You need me.  I need you.  And we will both need money.
electra		I don't need you to get the money -- my money!
rath		If it hadn't been for me, you would be dead.
electra		I don't need the money.
rath		This is something that is never going to end.  You can never work in the business again with this contract, because he will find you. To survive, you have to go into deep hiding.  And that's going to take money, a lot of money.
electra		Then you can have the disks and I'll just walk out that door --
rath		If you walk out that door, Bain will still come after you.
electra		Why?
rath		Because he took a contract on you. He'll come for you and he'll find you.
electra		You don't know that -- you're trying to scare me.
rath		No.  It's the truth.  I know what you are.  Like me, like Bain, you're a ghost, you're not part of the real world.  You don't have a social security number.  You don't pay taxes.  You've probably used ten different names over the last ten years.  A long time ago something probably happened, something illegal and you ran, you disappeared and it was easy.  You think you can do it again.  But I'm telling you, fading from the law is nothing.  No matter what you do, where you go, I swear to you that Bain will find you.
electra		How?
rath		Right now, as we sit here, he is tearing through your apartment.  He is digging through your drawers, emptying your closets.  He will take your telephone and address books, your appointment books.  If you keep a diary, he is reading it.  He'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat, liquor you drink, cigarettes you smoke.  In the bathroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled.  If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them.
electra		Oh Jesus Jesus...
rath		He will know everything about you. Everything.  I know, because I've done it.  Once you've been inside a mark's home, you're in their head. If you're any good, you'll find the mark in a week, and Bain is good because I was the best and I couldn't take him.
electra		Shut up!  All right!  You've said enough!
electra		I need to think... To be alone.
electra		Oh shit, Nikita.
electra		Cheers.
electra		Listen -- I don't even know your name.
rath		Rath.  Robert Rath.
electra		Electra.
rath		Just Electra?
electra		Yeah.
rath		As in daughter of Agamemnon?
electra		No.  Just Electra.
electra		What I'm trying to say is that -- I'm not sure I can do this, help you, unless I know more about you.
rath		What do you want to know?
electra		If Bain hadn't taken the contract on me, would you have?
rath		No.
electra		Why?
rath		Because I'm done.
electra		This is crazy.  I can't trust you. You can't trust me.  How can we possibly help each other?
rath		Do you play?
electra		With computers.
rath		It's not the same, is it?
electra		Better than playing with yourself.
rath		I had an opponent.
electra		Had?
rath		He was Russian.  Nicholai Tachlinkov.  A legend in the business when I was just starting. I admired him.  When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game.
electra		He was white?
electra		It looks like white's game.
rath		We played with a code using The New York Times obituaries.  Over three years we played twelve matches.  I never won.
electra		Why didn't you finish this game?
rath		He was... taken.
electra		He was killed.
electra		By who?
rath		I killed him.
electra		Why?
rath		Because that's how it works.  That's what it's about.  He was the best. He was on top.
electra		Where you wanted to be?
rath		Yes.  As soon as you get into this business, all you can think about is getting to the top.  That's all there is.  Until then, there is nothing.  You are nothing.
electra		How did you get into the business?
rath		The same way everyone does; the government, the Agency.
electra		The C.I.A.?
rath		More or less.
electra		How old were you?
rath		They recruited me when I was in high school.
electra		Jesus -- why?
rath		Languages.  I was already fluent in nine languages.
electra		You were like a boy genius?
rath		Some people said that.  I never thought so.
electra		Why not?
rath		I was just different.
electra		You went from high school to the Agency?
rath		No.  I graduated from George Washington University.  Then I entered the Agency training program.
electra		They didn't give you a choice, did they?
rath		No, they didn't.
electra		But you knew what they were training you for?
rath		Of course.  I was going to be James Bond.
electra		Ahhhh...
rath		They are very good at what they do. It's very seductive.  The training, the weapons, the travel --
electra		The exotic women.
rath		Women?  No... not really.
electra		Why not?
rath		Women... I don't... I don't want to talk about women.
electra		Why?
rath		Because you are a women.
electra		Why did you leave the Agency?
rath		The same reason everyone does.  You hear your name on C-SPAN and you realize you're a skeleton in someone's closet and they're coming to bury you.
electra		They tried to kill you?
rath		Yes.  It didn't matter much to them as long as I disappeared.
electra		Then you went freelance?
rath		The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government, so you make more money.  Then once you make the transition, you realize you were never working for the government; it was always the private sector, the vested interests and it's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets.
electra		Tell me about the first time.
rath		My first take?
electra		Yes.
rath		Why?
electra		Because I want to know.
rath		It was... mechanical.  Very precise. It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline.
electra		Are they usually like that?
rath		No.  Just the first one.
electra		After that?
rath		They become complicated... messy.
electra		Did it ever bother you?
rath		Did it ever bother James Bond?
electra		That's fiction.
rath		This is fiction!  Don't you see that?  This is another reality.  And the people that come into the world to play this game -- nobody forces them!  They're here, they know the rules, the stakes, the risks!  Do you understand what I am saying?  No one is innocent -- including you!
electra		Does that mean it didn't bother you?
rath		You get a job swinging a hammer, the first day you get a blister, it tears open, it bleeds and it stays sore a long time.  You keep swinging the hammer, you get a good hard callous that covers that spot and it never bothers you again.
rath		Check.
rath		Is that what you wanted to hear? Something cold blooded... something remorseless...
electra		No.  Something honest.
electra		Mate.
electra		I hope your plan is better than your game.
bain		I'm on the scent.
bain		No.  No.  No.  I don't believe it.
bain		What?
bain		I don't give a fuck what you are.  I asked you --
bain		 How in the fuck do you know that?
electra		Three days?
electra		Are you going to tell him?
rath		It.  Tell it.  For all I know it could be a machine.
electra		You said you didn't trust it.
rath		I don't.
electra		What kind of bank is going to allow us to withdraw ten million dollars the day it is transferred?
rath		The kind preferred by drug smugglers, arms dealers and politicians.
rath		Do you have a passport?
electra		Several.
rath		Good.
electra		Where is it?
rath		Mexico.
electra		God, I love first class.  I remember when I was a little girl, I would wonder what it was like up here.  I would always try to peek through the curtains.
electra		I hope Nikita's all right.
electra		Hey, where are you?
rath		Thinking.
electra		About?
rath		Nothing.
electra		I've never been to the Gulf of Mexico.  Is it as nice as they say?
rath		I don't know.
electra		You were there?
rath		Yes.
rath		 Good afternoon.  We have reservations at the Hotel Paraiso in Costa Blanca.
cabby		 Yes, sir.
rath		 No, no.  I said the Hotel Paraiso.
cabby		 Yes.  This is the Hotel Paraiso.
rath		 No, the other Hotel Paraiso, in the city.  Near the Plaza del Sol.
cabby		 I'm sorry, sir.  A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso. This is the new Hotel Paraiso.
rath		 Take us there.
electra		So, that's where all that S & L money is?
rath		That's where he'll be.
electra		What?
rath		I wasn't expecting this.  I need to think.
electra		Did you see them?
electra		They looked like they were in love.
electra		Well, I think I'll take a bath. Come on, Nikita!
electra		That felt great.  You should try it.
electra		Don't you ever get tired of playing the same game?
rath		No.
electra		Why not?
rath		It helps me to focus.  It centers me, helps me think.
electra		Oh.  What do you think about?
rath		Work.  The things I need to get done.
electra		Do you think about the game?
rath		Yes.
electra		But you've never figured out a way to win.
rath		No.
electra		Not even a stalemate?
rath		No.
electra		What happens if you do?
electra		Can I ask you something?
electra		What will you do if this works, if we get the money?
rath		I don't know... maybe I'll live on a boat, sail to all the places I've never been.
electra		That sounds nice.
electra		I'm kind of tired.  I think I'd like to try and get some sleep.
rath		You can have the bed.  The chair is fine for me.
electra		Thanks.
electra		Do you think he's here?
rath		Here?
electra		In Costa Blanca.
rath		Yes.
electra		What do you think he's doing?
rath		I don't know... But I'm sure he's not sleeping.
bain		You're dead, motherfucker.
rath		Breakfast.
electra		Why don't you bring it out here? It's beautiful out here.
electra		I know what you are thinking.  I'm not going to disappear, okay?  I'm not going anywhere, just down there, to that beautiful beach.  I got to get out of this room, just for a little while.
rath		Okay.
electra		Really?
rath		He won't be looking for you.  Just be careful.  Buy a book.  Keep your sunglasses on.
electra		Book.  Sunglasses.  Great.
rath		You should knock.
electra		Sorry.
rath		How was the beach?
electra		The beach?  It was nice.
electra		That was beautiful.
electra		Tai Chi, right?
electra		Where did you learn it?
rath		Taiwan.
electra		Not that I would know, but you look like you're really good at it.
rath		Thank you.
electra		I've always wanted to learn something like that.
rath		You should.  It's very important, that the body release the energy that builds in it.
rath		I'm going to shower.  If you're hungry, go ahead and order some dinner.
rath		I'm going to call.
electra		Oh, my God.  Ten million dollars.
rath		Sit down.
rath		Okay --
electra		Two way?
rath		Transmits and receives.
electra		Cheap as shit.
rath		I paid a lot for these.
electra		They saw you coming a mile away.  If I had known we'd be using --
rath		It's too late now.  Okay?  We'll have to deal with these.
electra		Fine.
rath		This is the bank.  This is the hotel.  In the morning I will enter the bank.
electra		Check.
rath		He will be hidden somewhere out here, probably somewhere low, in the crowd.  He'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank.
electra		But he won't shoot you right then?
rath		No.  It would be amateur.  A risk. He'll wait for the prime shot, that he knows is coming.  Once I'm inside, he'll move to the hotel. He'll go up the back, too much traffic in the front.
rath		You'll be here.  A restaurant.  A public place far enough away that he won't notice you, but with a good enough view you'll be able to see him when he moves inside.
electra		Okay.  Then what?
rath		Then, we wait.
electra		Aiiee.  More waiting?  I don't know if I like this plan.
rath		It will take the entire day, but he will begin to doubt himself.  He will begin to believe that he missed me, that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe.
rath		The sun will be low, almost dark, the air cool and the bank will almost be closed.  5:45.  5:50.  He will put the rifle down, he will get up and he will walk across the plaza to the bank.
electra		Why won't he wait until the bank closes?
rath		He won't be able to.  He'll have to go inside.  He'll have to see with his own eyes, whether or not I am there.  If the bank closes, he won't know for sure.  He'll come.  I'm sure.  And when he does you'll go into the hotel, go upstairs and take the gun.
electra		What?  What if he brings it with him?
rath		He can't.  The bank has an expensive security system; metal detectors and X-ray machines.
electra		That means you won't have a gun.
rath		That's right.
electra		And with the mikes, I'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you'll tell me when he leaves the bank.
rath		If things go well, I don't have to. You'll already be in a rented car waiting for me.
electra		You'll have the money.  How do I know that you won't --
rath		I'll be walking out of the bank, unarmed.  You'll have the gun and I'll drive the car.
electra		We split the money?
rath		Five million apiece.  You get on your plane, I get on mine.
electra		Sounds pretty well figured out.
rath		I've been thinking about it for a long time.
electra		Except --
rath		What?
electra		Except, if he doesn't come out of the hotel.
rath		I told you, he will.
electra		You can't know for sure, how can you?  I mean, you're not him.
rath		I was.
rath		Ten years ago, I sat there in that same hotel window, sweat pouring off of me waiting --
electra		For Nicholai?
rath		Yes.
electra		You killed him here?  In this city, outside that bank?
electra		What is it?  I don't like this at all.  What is going on here?
rath		I don't know.  It just happened.  I was here ten years ago, I'm here now.  That's it.
electra		I don't believe that.
rath		It wasn't planned or premeditated. I swear.  Things happened beyond my control.  I understood; I saw where they were leading and I suppose that it just made sense.
electra		Ten years ago.
rath		Yes.
electra		What happened?
rath		I waited until I was insane and then I walked into the bank.  He was sitting there, very calm, waiting for me.
electra		What did he want?
rath		He wanted what I want now; to get out of the business.  To disappear to some empty Greek island.
rath		What did he say?
rath		He said I couldn't win.  That no one wins at this game.
electra		Was that it?
rath		Then he offered me one million dollars to walk away, to quit the business.
electra		You didn't take it.
rath		No.  I went back to the hotel.  And waited.
electra		Ten years later, here you are again.
rath		Yes.  Here I am again.
electra		This has been the longest day of my life.
electra		Do you have ulcers?
rath		No.
electra		I think I got one today.
rath		Five million dollars will buy a lot of Rolaids.
electra		What do you suppose he's doing now?
rath		Why did you trade a bishop for a knight?
electra		I hate bishops.  They're useless.  I like knights.
rath		They're worth less points.
electra		So?
electra		Do you hear them?
electra		Listen.
electra		Did you think they were newlyweds?
rath		I didn't notice them.
electra		When I first saw them I thought they were married.
rath		How do you know they're not?
electra		I went into their room this afternoon.
rath		What?
electra		It was no big deal.  I saw them leave, I went in.
rath		Jesus, if someone had --
electra		Nobody ever sees me.
rath		Why in the hell would you take that chance?
electra		I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them.  I wanted to, so I did.
electra		She is married, but not to him. Another man, much older.  She has four kids.  The young guy works for her.  And I think she likes kinky sex.
rath		Thank you.
electra		Isn't it interesting though?  I mean, look at us, in this room.  Or yesterday, when we were walking in the plaza market.  I mean, we look like just another couple.  But what are we?  Doesn't it seem so crazy?
rath		No.
electra		No?
rath		It's always been that way.  The world has always functioned on two levels.
electra		I know.  It makes me crazy.
rath		Why?
electra		I don't know.  When I was in college, I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room floor.
rath		And you were drilling these holes...?
electra		So I could watch the girl that lived under me.
rath		Apparently this doctor was unable to cure you.
electra		He told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of self-preservation.
rath		Did he explain how this happened?
electra		He believed it all went back to one night, when as a little girl.  I watched my parents have this big fight, really big.  I thought my mother was going to kill my father. Then they went into their room and made up.  And I watched them make love through the keyhole.
rath		What are you doing?
electra		What?
rath		That's a ridiculous move.
electra		Why?
rath		Because, I'll take it.
electra		I'm playing white, remember.  You can't tell me which pieces to move. It doesn't work that way.
electra		Can I ask you something?
rath		I'm sure you will.
electra		Am I attractive?
rath		Yes.
electra		Are you attracted to me?
rath		Yes.
electra		Why?
rath		Why?  I don't know.
electra		Is it a physical thing, or a mental thing?
rath		Both.
electra		Is that why you didn't want to talk about women before?
rath		I didn't want to complicate the situation.
electra		Attraction is a complication?
rath		It can be.
electra		It happened to you before?
rath		Yes.
electra		Who was she?
rath		Someone like me, like you.  A pro.
electra		What happened to her?
rath		She was taken.
electra		Did you --
rath		No.  I tried to stop it.  I couldn't.
electra		Was she the only one?
rath		After her, I realized that to survive I had to live without... It's dangerous to let things become complicated.
electra		Is this becoming complicated?
rath		I'm not sure that I care anymore.
electra		Were you attracted to me right away?
rath		No.
electra		When did it start?
rath		Honestly?
electra		Uh-huh.
rath		When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me.
electra		Maybe you should see a psychiatrist.
rath		Why?
electra		That doesn't sound normal.
rath		I'm not normal.
electra		I know.  That's why I'm attracted to you.  I mean, you make me nervous. You're intimidating.  Maybe it's my curiosity/self-preservation thing, but all I can really think about right now is kissing you.
electra		I wanted to tell you --
electra		My real name is Anna.
rath		Martin.
electra		Martin.
electra		Nice to meet you, Martin.
electra		I'm ready.
rath		Good.
teller		May I help you?
rath		Yes.  Could you check on a transfer for me?
teller		Your name, or account?
rath		Rath.  Robert Rath.
official		Senor Rath, we have received your transfer.
rath		Good.  Now I'll need to close this account.  I'd like you to ready the paperwork.
official		You wish to close this account today?
rath		That's correct.
official		How would you like the funds?
rath		American currency.
official		This will take some time.
rath		I have all day.
electra		He's here.
electra		He's inside.
rath		Now, we wait.
bain		Shit.
bain		What in the fuck are you doing in there?
bain		That's not him.  Jesus, Bain, baby, chill the fuck out.
official		Your signature, senor.  Everything is ready.
official		Excellent, senor.  If you could follow me?
rath		I'm sorry, but I am waiting for an associate.  Can you hold everything for me until he arrives?
official		Of course, senor.
rath		Thank you.
electra		Ten million dollars, sitting there. Waiting... this is insane.
bain		This is fucking insane.
bain		Fucking God dammit!
electra		Oh my God.
electra		He's coming.
rath		Four minutes.
electra		What?
rath		I waited another four minutes.
electra		Shit.
rath		Wait until he is on the stairs.
electra		Right.
rath		I'm taking off my mike.
electra		Okay.
rath		Electra --
electra		What?
rath		Last night --
electra		Was nice.
rath		Yes.
bain		How'd you know?  Just tell me that. How'd you fucking know?
rath		I knew the same way in ten years you're going to know.
bain		What does that fucking mean?
rath		It means that I'm going to tell you things, even though I already know that you're not going to listen to a God damned thing I say.
rath		It's irony.  That's what it is.  But the real irony is that you won't know it's irony until you're sitting over here.
rath		When you walked in here and you saw me, sitting here, waiting; the first thing that went through your head was that you were a dead man.
rath		You're thinking that you've been sold out.  That's the only way I could know you were out there.  Why would you think this?  Because you don't trust your contractor.  You don't trust anyone.  It's automatic. It's the first and last commandment. It's the only thing that keeps you alive.  So, try as I might to tell you the truth, you can't believe me. Do you see the irony of the situation?  It's kind of funny, isn't it?
rath		Listen to me, Bain.  Two days ago, you contacted your contractor, who told you that they knew when and where I was going to pick up the transferred money from MicroCell. You don't know how they got the information.  It bothered you, but you didn't care.  How do I know this?  Because ten years ago, I was sitting in that chair, as scared shitless as you are now.
bain		I ain't scared of you.
rath		Yeah you are and you hate it.  You hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine isn't.  That you're sweating your balls off and I'm not. You've got fear and hate in your belly like battery acid, all because of me.
bain		If you think you can take me, quit fucking bullshitting and try it.
rath		All right, Bain.  Pay attention, because this is where everything changes.
rath		You're a businessman, right?  This is a business deal.  Behind that counter, I have over ten million dollars.  I'll give you half of it, more money than you'll make in the next ten years if, you walk away.
bain		Five million dollars?
rath		That's right.
bain		Shit.  That sure is a lot of money.
rath		Did you see how I did that?  Magic wasn't it?
bain		What?
rath		You understand what's going on?  It makes sense, right?
bain		Oh, yeah.
rath		What I just said, no assassin would say.  What I've said, only a mark would say.
bain		You think I would be an idiot to pass up five million dollars.
rath		You would be.
bain		You don't know a fucking thing about me.  You don't have the slightest fucking clue.
rath		Why don't you tell me.
bain		I'll tell you this.  After Cleveland, I thought I was lucky to be alive.  But now, here, I just realized that you were the lucky one.
rath		Now I'll tell you something.  It wouldn't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars. You'd still be thinking the same thing, that you're going to take me. And here I am, sitting through this, knowing it's bullshit, looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind, the only thing I can think is that, in just a few minutes I'm going to take you.
bain		Yeah, okay!  I'm ready!  Let's fucking go!
rath		Electra?
electra		God, I can't find it!  I can't find it!  I can't find the fucking gun!
electra		It wasn't with his other stuff!
rath		Electra, get out.
electra		Oh, God.  I see it!
rath		Electra!
rath		Electra, what's happening?  What are you --
official		Finido, senor.
bain		You're gonna take me?  Come on! Come on, motherfucker!
bain		Take this!  Take this, you fuck!
bain		Motherfucker!
bain		Comeon-comeon-comeone-it'sover- gameover-comeon.
official		We are closed, senor.  Thank you for banking with us.
bain		Make me shit, you sorry ass piece of mark meat!  Come on, come on.  It's over!  I know it!  You know it!  We know it!
telescopic sight		 we watch Rath step out of the bank, the doors closing behind him.
inside closet		 Electra slowly rises, still watching Bain.
bain		Lift your head, motherfucker.
bain		Look up here.
telescopic sight		 The cross-hairs are an "X" on Rath's head.
bain		Look up.  Look at me.  I want to see your face.
bain		Yes.
bain		Wha --
rath		Electra.
bain		Die, bitch!
bain		Fuck!  God damn bitch!  What are you doing?  I don't believe this is happening!
bain		You're dead!  You're fucking dead! I'm going to kill you a hundred fucking times for this!
bain		Game over, bitch!
rath		Bain!
bain		Fuck no!
rath		Shit!
rath		Electra!
telescopic sight		 When the cross-hairs find her back.
rath		Electra!
rath		Down!  Get down!
telescopic sight		 The scope glides up zeroing the back of Rath's head.
bain		Game --
rath		Electra!
rath		The gun!  He needs the gun!  Get rid of it!  Throw it!
rath		Yeah, I know what you're thinking.
rath		Game over.
****Dialogues from script :Assignment.txt****

written by		 Dan Gordon & Sabi H. Shabtai
carlos		 You lose...
colette		What do you mean?
carlos		I mean get out.
colette		You're a pig, you know that? How can you be like that?
carlos		 Leave without saying another word.
carlos		 All you need is love... Rum da, da da da All you need is love Rum da da da da All you need is lo-ve Love is all you need. Love is all you need.
carlos		Pardon monsieur...
carlos		Merci.
carlos		 One thousand one... one thousand two... one thousand three...
du foltiere		Du Foltiere, Monsieur, intelligence liaison officer. DST. My understanding is that you are the Deputy Chief of Station, CIA, Paris, and that you witnessed by coincidence this attack.
jack		That's right.
du foltiere		And you have told my subordinate that you recognized the terrorist as Carlos?
jack		That's not what I told him. I said he recognized me. Afterwards I realized who he was. By then it was too late.
du foltiere		 Ah yes... The deputy chief of station did not recognize him... But he recognized you.
jack		I wasn't the one wearing the disguise.
du foltiere		Yes of course... But then how are you sure it was him?
jack		How often do you see someone holding a live grenade listening to the fuse? Besides, the arrogant son of a bitch bastard smiled at me.
carlos		 I shot the sheriff... But I did not shoot the deputy...
carlos		 Pardon me. Is the conference still in progress?
receptionist		 Yes, but sir...
carlos		 I have an urdent delivery for the ministers.
carlos		 EVERYONE FREEZE!
koj		We've got company.
carlos		My name is Carlos. You'll do as I say.
mickena		...Twenty million dollars ransom.
jack		Who's asking for it?
mickena		"The Arm of the Arab Revolution." Alias of the month time.  Could be anybody. The point is... their leader claims to be Carlos...
jack		He does, does he?
mickena		He wants to make sure everyone knows it's him. He wants the credit and the Austrians want a positive ID. That's when your name came up.
jack		Who brought my name up?
mickena		The guy who says he's Carlos. The Austrians want you there to identify him.
jack		Where?
mickena		At the airport. Tomorrow. When they provide the plane to fly him and the hostages to Libya. Carlos evidently feels very comfortable in Libya.
jack		They got him here in their own backyard and they're gonna let him walk away?!
mickena		They've got no choice, Jack.
jack		Bullshit! Let 'em handle it like the Israelis would.
mickena		They're not the Israelis Jack. It's not their fight.
jack		Then let me take him out! They want me to meet him at the airport. I can get close enough to get a clear shot at him. We can end this shit now.
mickena		Jack! He's got seventy hostages.
jack		Fuck the hostages!
jack		 Harold, we can handle it with a minimum loss of life.
mickena		We will handle it with no loss of life. Those aren't just any hostages. They are the oil ministers of the richest countries in the world, and that twenty million bucks they're gonna have to pay isn't gonna break 'em you know. It's nothing to them. They just want to pay it and... it's not our fight.
jack		What do you think Carlos is gonna do with that money? Put it in mutual funds? He'll use it to hit us. Let me assemble a team and we can...
mickena		Jack goddamnit, there isn't any team to assemble! You're a fuckin' dinosaur. We're out of the assassination business. All of us! You got a personal hard on against this guy because he made you look like an asshole and now he's gonna rub your nose in it. I can appreciate your feelings, but it's not going down on our soil. It is not with our nationals and it is not our fight! Now I got my orders and you just got yours.
jack		I gotta hit the john.
jack		 I think it's him, but I can't be sure. Not with those dark glasses and the beard...
carlos		Minister of the Interior, I presume...?
carlos		I'm sorry this had to happen in Austria. We have no quarrel with your government.
carlos		Pardon monsieur...
carlos		We were never really properly introduced Mister Shaw. My name is Carlos.
jack		 Eat shit and die slow.
mickena		You don't want your picture taken shaking his hand.
carlos		 As I was saying, I'm sorry about the loss of life. And thank you for your cooperation.
amos		 How do you feel?
carlos		 Yo soy Cubano... de Cuba... Castro... Su amigos... Amigos... Entiende?
amos		You spoke English well enough to your contact... the street vendor... so please let's not play games. We're both professionals, Carlos.
carlos		 My name... Ramirez... no Carlos.
amos		Yes, I know what your name is... Illich Ramirez...
carlos		No Illich.
amos		Alias Carlos Sanchez, alias Carlos Martinez, alias The Jackal.
carlos		 Jou're loco man... No Carlos... I am tourist...
amos		Listen to me you piece of shit. I'm trying very hard to be professional about this but you are in Israeli hands now... So don't play games with me... entiende hombre?
carlos		Okay.
carlos		You... You're telling me you're Israelis... not Arabs?  I'm in some kind of an Israeli prison... is that what you're telling me?
amos		Amazing how much your English has improved in just a few seconds...
carlos		 Look, obviously there has been some kind of mistake. I don't know who you think I am, but I am a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy, okay? I am Lieutenant Commander Annibal Ramirez of the U.S.S. Yorktown, Sixth Fleet, docked in Haifa. I am not Carlos or Sanchez or Illich or the Jackal or whoever you think you just caught. If you call the U.S. Embassy and ask for the Sixth Fleet Liaison Officer, he'll confirm everything I've said.
amos		Remarkable... remarkable performance... the chutzpa of it is unbelievable... my hat is off to you Carlos.
ramirez		Your hat's off?! I'll tear your head off! You get on the horn and you call the U.S. Embassy and you call the Sixth Fleet Liaison Office and then motherfucker you go out and find yourself a good lawyer and I'll tell you somethin' Jack, I'm gonna sue your ass so bad that your great great grandchildren will still be shovelin' shit to pay off the debt!
amos		Carlos... give me a break, huh? If you were an American officer you would have... ID papers, dog tags.
ramirez		I ditched 'em in an alley just before you guys got me. Go back there you'll find 'em.
amos		You ditched them.
ramirez		Per instructions... An American officer on shore leave in the Middle East must travel in mufti, civilian clothes. A bunch of Arabs start chasing me... could be terrorism... could be kidnapping... instructions are to ditch our tags, our ID or anything else that could identify us. That's why I spoke Spanish, that's why I said I was a Cuban, not an American. And you broke my ribs here asshole. I'm gonna sue you, I'm gonna sue your government... I'm gonna sue every fuckin' Jew I can get my hands on you, understand me?!
ramirez		 I'm gonna sue Menachem Begin, I'm gonna sue Moshe Dayan, I'm gonna sue the goddamned B'nai B'rith or whatever you call it.
yoni		Sir?
amos		Yoni... I want you to go back to the old city... where we caught... Carlos... I want you to be very inconspicuous. Take a half dozen men... you comb every alleyway there... every garbage can... everything you can find... for what looks like a U.S. military ID if there is such a thing there.
yoni		What's the problem?
amos		Who said there was a problem? There's no problem. I just asked you to do something and you're going to do it. So there's no problem.
amos		Nu?
amos		Oyyyy.
scott		I love it! Those cocky Israeli bastards thought they hit the jackpot. Got the Jackal right in their own backyard...
monroe		State Department's goin' apeshit. And the Navy... Admiral Trost was so pissed he was ready to shell the port of Haifa.
jack		You're not gettin' it are ya?
scott		What?
jack		These weren't some yokels... This was the Israeli General Security Service... The Mossad. The best in the business. They have the most complete dossier there is on Carlos, the latest pictures of him... everything. I mean what's that tell you?
scott		That they really ate it this time.
jack		Scott... doesn't it hurt to walk around like that with your head up your ass... I mean isn't it painful?
joey		Poppi!
maura		I thought you weren't coming back till tomorrow...
ramirez		I wanted to be here for his game. Look how beautiful she is!
ramirez		Just like her mother.
maura		What happened to your eye?
ramirez		Nothing. Just fell. It doesn't matter. I'm home.
ramirez		Joey watch Yolanda... okay?
jack		Jesus...
ramirez		I beg your pardon?
jack		Lieutenant Commander Ramirez my name is Jack Shaw... I'm with the government... I'd like to talk to you about what happened in Israel.
ramirez		I want to sue them, okay? I want to sue the guy who broke my ribs. I want to sue their government and their Mossad... and I want to sue Golda Meir!
jack		Mrs. Meir is dead, Lieutenant Commander.
ramirez		Then you might want to have them dig her up because I intend to sue her.
jack		Commander Ramirez when I said I was from the government, perhaps I should have been more specific. I'm from the CIA.
jack		Does the man in that picture look familiar?
yolanda		Poppi...
ramirez		That's not me... I mean I know it looks like me... but...
jack		I know it's not you.
ramirez		It's... this Carlos guy.
joey		Poppi, you don't need to watch the fire, come climb with me.
ramirez		Get out of that tree, Joey. Your mother sees that and I'm dead.
jack		This is the only recent shot we have of him... telescopic lens from half a mile away taken by the Israelis. Can you blame 'em for what happened? The only difference is the eyes.
ramirez		Okay I get it now, you're here to talk me out of my lawsuit. But see I identified myself but they kept me in that cell for two more days chained to that wall after I told 'em who I was so...
jack		Lieutenant Commander, I am not here about your lawsuit. Carlos is the single most vicious terrorist in the world. He's personally carried out or masterminded the worst terrorist attacks in modern history. Men, women, children. Children like yours... blown to bits or slaughtered in cold blood. Annibal... why did you join the Navy?
ramirez		 To serve my country.
jack		To serve your country... to protect her from her enemies. Well Carlos is one of her enemies now. And he'll probably become a bigger one... terrorism... unfortunately is a growth industry.
ramirez		Why are you telling me all this?
jack		Lieutenant Commander, the governments of most countries in the free world have been after Carlos for ten years and we have nothing to show for it. There is exactly one person in the world who can help us get Carlos. And that person is you.
ramirez		What do you mean... to get him?
jack		All I can tell you is it may take as much as six months to a year of preparation. It will involve a high degree of risk. That much said, you may never as much as lay eyes on him yourself. But if we succeed Carlos won't be a threat to anyone anymore. Now I know you're going to need some time to think about it so...
ramirez		No I don't need any time. The answer's no.
jack		Annibal...
ramirez		Lieutenant Commander... I am a Naval Officer... that's what I was trained for... that's what I'm good at... See you came to the wrong address. You want James Bond. He lives in London and he's got an Aston Martin. You can't miss him.
naval aide		Admiral Crawford this is Commander and Mrs. Ward Scowcroft.
crawford		I know your family well, Commander, I was with your father at the Academy. I expect great things from you Ward... great things.
scowcroft		I won't let you down sir.
naval aide		Admiral Crawford this is Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. Annibal Ramirez.
crawford		Annabelle?!
ramirez		 It's Annibal sir.
crawford		Yes... of course... well ... I'm glad to see we're getting some Mexican American officers in the ranks. I'm an L.A. boy myself so I have a real soft spot for authentic Mexican food... My stomach doesn't always go along with it but...
maura		We'd love to have you over to dinner Admiral but the cuisine would be Cuban not Mexican. I think your stomach would find it more agreeable... not to mention your taste buds.
crawford		You're Cuban Americans... oh I'm sorry... you grow up in L.A. and you hear Ramirez and... anyway it was a pleasure meeting you.
jack		We do keep bumping into each other don't we. How do you do, Mrs. Ramirez? I was over at your lovely home the other day but I felt cheated because I had to leave before I had the pleasure of meeting you.
maura		The pleasure is mine...
jack		Para servirle, Yo soy encantado de conocerte.
maura		Encantada Senor...
jack		Shaw... Jack Shaw.
maura		Senor Shaw. Mucho gusto.
ramirez		My wife speaks English Mister Shaw... so do I.
jack		Perdonname, I didn't think you'd be embarrassed to speak Spanish in front of the Admiral. A sus ordenes.
ramirez		 I'll have a club soda and... uhh... a glass of white wine please...
jack		Let me guess the white wine is for your wife right? Cause you're afraid to drink anything stronger than club soda around the brass. How do you stand this shit Annibal? I mean they're all so fuckin' constipated.
ramirez		My wife is waiting for her wine... if you'll excuse me.
jack		Oh there's a fiery retort.
ramirez		 How about fuck you.
jack		I'd believe it if you said it a little louder...
jack		Look at these guys. You don't belong with them. You belong with me. What did Darth Vader say to Luke? Come over to the dark side? You have no idea of the power we have.
ramirez		Hey... I told you I didn't want anything to do with you.
jack		How's it going to look in your jacket? Your country came to you requesting help and you turned it down. Not exactly promotion material, know what I mean? These people don't want you in their club, Annibal. I do.
ramirez		The answer is no. That's the end of it.
ramirez		Oh Jesus... what do you want?
jack		I want you to come with me.
ramirez		Well then get set for disappointment.
jack		Okay. Then you are ordered to come with me.
ramirez		You can't order me to do shit.
jack		It's for you.
ramirez		 Hello... who? Oh... yes sir... Yes sir... Yes sir... Yes sir. I will... yes sir.
ramirez		What's this?
jack		Put it on.
ramirez		Why?
jack		Because I just told you to. You need a phone call for that, too?
jack		The boy was flown here from Germany. His parents are U.S. military personnel. Navy family. A bomb was planted in a grocery store that was frequented mainly by U.S. military dependents. They believe it was Carlos or one of the Cells he runs. How old is your kid?
ramirez		 He's six.
jack		Hmmph... so is this kid.
father		Hello Doctor Shaw. Is this... Is this the Specialist you told us about?
jack		Doctor Ramirez, Lieutenant and Mrs. Newcomb... the parents of the child who was wounded in the terrorist attack.
father		You're the one who's going to do the surgery.
jack		He's going to help out.
father		They told us you were the best person in the world to do this.
jack		He's the only one.
jack		Here's the boy's chart, Doctor. As you can see, one kidney was destroyed by the shrapnel. There's a large perforation in the left lung, the spleen, the large intestine, the stomach lining were all torn. There are over a hundred individual shrapnel fragments. It was obviously designed by Carlos to maim, not to kill.
ramirez		What kind of a sadistic son of a bitch are you? You use those poor people... you use anything to get what you want.
jack		To get what I want?
jack		These are pictures of just some of Carlos' victims. Most of them are children. We haven't had time to get that kid's picture in yet. Up until I heard about you, all we could do about Carlos was take pictures of his victims. I wasn't lying to those people. You are the only one who can do anything about Carlos. I'm not the bad guy, Annibal. Carlos is. I'm just trying to make you see the choices.
jack		Who are you angry at? Me for bringing you down here or Carlos for blowing up that kid? Which of us deserves your anger?
maura		What are you doing?
ramirez		I was just reading some... manuals...
maura		Read 'em on the Navy's time... this is my time...
ramirez		You'll see... it'll go by fast.
maura		Not fast enough.
ramirez		You take care of Mommy, okay?
joey		But why do you have to go?
ramirez		Well they're finally giving me my chance to go into subs... that's what I've always wanted you know...
joey		New color subs...
ramirez		Nuclear...
joey		Is there going to be a war, Poppi?
ramirez		Not if I can help it.
joey		Then why do you need to go away?
ramirez		Because sometimes countries need soldiers and sailors to be on guard so there won't be a war... So all the little children like you and baby Yolanda will be safe.
joey		Why can't somebody else's Daddy go on the sub and you could stay here and go to my games?
ramirez		Because I'm the one they asked and I'm the one who knows how to do the job.
jack		This is an ad hoc operation set up specifically for your mission. When that's over, not even a trace of it will remain. You don't need to know anyone's name. And from now on, your name is Miguel... Security.
ramirez		So your name really isn't Jack Shaw?
jack		 Of course it is.
jack		Your mother is Irish... Irish American.
ramirez		Yes.
jack		Something wrong, Miguel?
ramirez		...No... not really.
jack		Your father was in a Cuban prison if I'm correct.
jack		Your mother used to take you to visit him there, didn't she?
ramirez		 Yes.
jack		I'm sure that's a disturbing memory.
ramirez		You didn't set this up in a prison because it was the first piece of real estate you were shown, did you, sir?
jack		Let's just say everything has its purpose. And Miguel... no one is to know anything about you other than that you're our student. So don't call me sir, because it's like wearing a sign on your forehead that you're military. From here on out forget the Navy.
ramirez		Yes sir... Gotcha...
jack		This is our surveillance and satellite tracking center. Just as we are plotting to destroy Carlos, if he knew what we're trying to do, I assure you he'd try to find a way to kill us first.
jack		Carlos has two main safe houses. One in Libya, one in East Germany. We have satellites that pass over each one three times a day. Unfortunately, the Russians know exactly when our satellites are in position so we have to assume that Carlos knows as well.
jack		There's one person I want you to meet, though I think the two of you have already been introduced.
amos		Hello Miguel... My name is Amos.
ramirez		Oh yeah... I didn't recognize you without my foot chained to the floor.
amos		I hope there are no hard feelings.
ramirez		There are a lot of hard feelings. And I'm still gonna sue you when this is over.
jack		Miguel, this is a combined Israeli- American operation. Amos here knows Carlos better than anyone in the free world. He was the one who took that picture of Carlos in Libya.
ramirez		If you could get a picture of him why didn't you just kill him?
amos		Don't let all this equipment fool you. Carlos still has the home court advantage. He has the best protection in the world... three layers at least at all times. Next and maybe most important... Carlos himself. The French DST came to arrest him once. He was at his apartment, drunk, playing his guitar. He actually had them convinced it was all a mistake. Then he went into his bathroom, took a shave mind you so he would look his best for the interrogation and when he came out managed to shoot each of them through the forehead. Then he got the informer who had betrayed him, put him down on his knees and killed him... Think of it. He took a shave and didn't even nick himself once.
amos		Finally, there are political realities. Whoever hits Carlos has to realize that he'll unleash against himself a fanatical wave of terrorist activity in retribution.
jack		That by the way, is the last question you're going to ask. From now on you'll get information when and how we want you to get it. Not before. You don't ask questions, you just do what you're told.
amos		This is going to be unlike any learning experience you've ever had before. For one thing, we're going to push to all your limits. Fatigue, frustration and fear. We're going to make you more terrified than you've ever been in your life just to see how you handle the fear. Any other learning experience you get things ninety- nine point nine nine nine percent right you get an "A." Here if you get things ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent right... you get...
jack		Dead! And I'll tell you the truth. I honestly in my heart of hearts don't care whether you live or die. Don't take that personal. I don't care whether I live or die. I do care about getting Carlos. That's all I care about.
ramirez		But nothing personal, right?
amos		I'm not as cold-blooded as my American friend... it would bother me very much if you were dead... so we will teach you to stay alive... but no questions... just do. Otherwise...
ramirez		When do we start?
jack		You already have. What were the names on the last three tombstones you passed on your right?
ramirez		I... I don't know, I wasn't looking. I wasn't paying attention.
jack		That's what will get you killed. Carlos is always looking... always paying attention. Always.
amos		Because Carlos is the master of the techniques of survival which we will teach you and because he is an efficient killer for whoever employs him, then for him there are simply no rules. Unlike you Miguel, you're a rule follower, aren't you?
amos		Carlos is the opposite of that and that's what's so seductive, you know? He can kill whomever he chooses... ravish whoever he chooses... take whatever he chooses. Do... whatever he chooses. It is to be in many ways a superman, not bound by the mores or morals of humanity.
jack		And if you learn what we can teach you, you'll be one, too. If not, you'll be dead.
amos		Good morning. How's the porridge, you like it?
ramirez		'Morning. It's not bad.
amos		Good... finish everything in the pot.
ramirez		There's got to be like... eight helpings in there maybe...
amos		No questions... Just do.
amos		Name and place of birth!
ramirez		Illich Ramirez. Caracas, Venezuela.
amos		Your father?
ramirez		Doctor Jose Altagracia Ramirez... Do you have to smoke that cigar?
amos		Yes.
amos		Carlos' father abandoned him and his mother because he wanted to be a playboy. Your father abandoned you in effect, when he was sent to prison. Either way, it's a lonely child missing his father. I want you to take what you know of your real father and superimpose it onto this the image of Carlos' father, so when you talk of one you are talking of the other with the same emotion... the same love, the same resentment... the same sadness, the same anger.
jack		You need to not only remember the names on every tombstone, but where they are so when I call out a name, you whirl and shoot.
ramirez		It's kind of cold. You think I might be able to borrow a warmer jacket from someone?
jack		Brisson! We don't want you to be comfortable. That's just what will get you killed.
jack		DuPres! Paquet!
ramirez		Top shelf... some milk, some juice, maybe some cottage cheese, a couple bottles of beer, some tomatoes... I don't know...
jack		What kind of milk, how many cartons, open or closed, what kind of juice, how full was the bottle, was it cottage cheese or cream cheese, how many bottles of beer, how many tomatoes? This is life and death!
jack		Look here... Ten seconds, how many cups, saucers, plates, look this time!
jack		Here's the thing about Carlos. He doesn't fit any mold. His father is an extraordinarily wealthy playboy who's a Marxist at the same time... DuFraisne!
jack		The guy's such a fanatic he names his three sons after Lenin. And I don't mean John. The same thing is true for Carlos. He's a guerilla fighter who loves champagne and caviar... LaPierre!
jack		He doesn't want to be Che Guevara, he wants to be the James Bond of the People's Liberation Front. It's not so much radical chic as an excuse for sadism. Paquet!
jack		Dead again.
ramirez		What's that?
jack		It's a transmitter.
ramirez		For what?
jack		Target practice. You're the target.
jack		If you shoot out the receivers, they'll stop. There are ten rounds in this clip. The first two are live, the next three dummy, then three live, two dummy.
jack		Three times dead.
amos		You finish all your porridge?
ramirez		 Yeah... yeah... I finished all my porridge.
amos		Good now you can have some more.
ramirez		Enough of this porridge shit man, hi jo deputa! Fuck it man... I ain't eatin' no more of this shit! And I ain't wearin' this fuckin' shirt anymore either!
amos		Why Miguel amigo, whatever is the matter?
ramirez		I'll tell you what the matter is man... I been here twelve mother fuckin' weeks an' all I've had to eat the whole time is this shit! And those dumb ass basketball games... what's that?! You damn near kill me with those fucking snowmobiles... I haven't seen my family in three months and I still don't know what any plan is or what I'm supposed to be doing!
amos		Congratulations! You're acting like a child... like a spoiled brat...
jack		And not a Navy Lieutenant Commander, which is exactly what would get you killed.
amos		Finally you're acting like a willful spoiled child which is just what Carlos was.
jack		We couldn't just let you study Carlos. If this thing is going to work, you have to become him.
ramirez		The two most elite intelligence services in the world and the best you can come up with is this porridge bullshit?!
amos		As a child Carlos was fed that porridge that you love so much every day. He hated it. Every woman or man he's ever been close to he told about that porridge... how the very smell of it made him sick. And now it makes you sick.
jack		When he was in school he was a scrawny little kid. The last one to get picked for any teams. He felt as clumsy as we've made you feel...
amos		His father smoked cigars... the same ones whose smell you complained about. The only cover that can save your life... is the one you believe yourself. Now... are you ready to pass the next test?
amos		I'll take that for a yes. You're about to go into your house. Your wife has told you she was away with the children for a week. She is entering the house for the first time in a week with you. The children are still at Grandma's so the two of you have a nice romantic time ahead of you. Walk through the house... through the living room and the kitchen only. You have thirty seconds. Walk casually through the house so as not to make her suspicious of anything you do and find out if she's telling you the truth or not. If you pass this test your questions will be answered. If not... you'll be sent home to Virginia and this will be the end of it.
jack		 Time's up.
amos		Nu? Is she telling the truth or lying?
ramirez		She's got to be lying, otherwise this would be a very short test and I don't think that's what you had in mind. She had a man over.
jack		How do you know?
ramirez		She hasn't been here in a week? Then why was the sponge still damp. It means she washed dishes. Take a look at the dish rack. There's water in the tray underneath it. Probably from a couple of plates. There's a bit of water in the silverware tray. The milk is still fresh... not even a hint of being sour and the date on it is a week from today... means she just bought it yesterday or the day before. The margarine's fresh-bought but it's already been opened. Same with the bread.
amos		How do you know it was a man?
ramirez		 She might have met him at a bar because there's a book of matches in the garbage. She was probably careful to throw the cigarette away but there's still a bit of ash and that cigarette smell at the bottom of the liner.
jack		What else?
ramirez		I think they made love on the sofa because one of the cushions has been turned over and there's the indentation of a tennis shoe print in the rug over there.
ramirez		Sorta like the ones you're wearing, Jack. Besides, I know it was a man because I smelled after-shave on the couch.
ramirez		...Cheap kind.
ramirez		Jack... you've been fucking my wife.
ramirez		Now who's dead?
jack		The plan is to get the KGB to eliminate Carlos for us. Carlos knows every link between the KGB and every terrorist organization in the world. He's not only the smoking gun, he knows every contact there ever was. We make the KGB think that Carlos is ready to turn... ready to go over to the CIA, and they'll take him out.
ramirez		Why would they think Carlos would go over to the CIA?
amos		Money... fifty million... not for the forces of world revolution this time, but for him, in his pocket with a new identity and CIA protection. They'll believe it... if we lay it out right... they'll believe it.
ramirez		When do we move?
amos		Not so fast. You're far from ready. I would think another three months of training and then...
ramirez		Bullshit! I'm ready now. Give me any test you want. Christ, I already passed your tests... what more do you want?
ramirez		 Shoo Ismak? Isme... Carlos. Isme Carlos.
amos		It should be hitting him now...
ramirez		Jack! Jack!!!! Amos!! You motherfuckers!
ramirez		Jack!!
ramirez		Amos you piece of shit! Wen anta? Coos echtak ya sharmuta!
ramirez		So she tried the first bowl of caviar and said, that's too hot, and she tried the second bowl and said, that's too cold and so she tried the third little itsy bitsy bowl of caviar that belonged to little Miguel and that turned into maggots and that was just right...
ramirez		Here's the problem, Doctor. He needs a new brain.
jack		Brilliant, Doctor!
jack		And tasty, too!
ramirez's father		Vaya mi hijo. Vaya rapido!
carlos		 I think she likes me better... don't you baby. She likes it rough... you never knew that? Yala... ruh mi hun.
amos		I hope we didn't go too far with this.
jack		I'd rather have him wind up in a mental institution fucked up on LSD than shot in some back alley in Libya. If he can't handle this, he sure as shit can't handle going operational.
ramirez		Okay... what's next?
jack		Don't stop for the stop sign, don't even slow down for it. You've got to hit the hairpin exactly fifteen seconds after you pass the stop sign.
jack		The hairpin should be right in front of you. Keep your focus. You can't let down even after you negotiate the turn. You never know what's going to be around the next corner... or whose life might depend on your reactions.
ramirez		You crazy-assed mother fucker! I could have killed you!
jack		You can't let down! This isn't a game... it is life and death. You have to be ready for anything, all the time.
ramirez		Fuck you!
jack		 The clip in your gun has three live, two dummy, one live, three dummy, one live.
ramirez		No rules, Jack? Then you fucking deal with it.
jack		You pussy. You rule-following pussy.
jack		You know why you don't fuck around on your wife? Not because you don't want to. You're a man. You want to fuck everything. But you don't... because you're afraid it would cost you what... your wife, your family, your self respect maybe...
jack		...You know what Carlos would do if he was married? He'd bring whatever woman he wanted home and make his wife fuck her. That's what no rules means. That's what you're too much of a pussy to get.
ramirez		No rules, Jack? Okay... We're in a fucking foreign country on a secret mission... I can't be here, I'm on a submarine. The U.S. Navy's my alibi. What's the count on my ammunition, Jack? Is this one live or a dud?
ramirez		What about the next one, Jack? Live or dud... who cares... no rules, right?
jack		 Yes, my good son...
ramirez		Think you can be lucky three times in a row?
ramirez		How about four?
jack		Stay out of it.
amos		It's over, Jack. He's it.
ramirez		What's this?
jack		What you'll wear from now on. Black T-shirt and jeans... it's the only thing Carlos ever wears whenever he's not out being a terrorist. It's the opposite of what he was forced to wear as a child... you know... the school uniforms, the white tight collared shirts... It's become like a fetish for him.
amos		And to match your new wardrobe, in another two days your bandages will come off and you'll get to show your beautiful new nose to Carla.
ramirez		Who's Carla?
jack		She's a Venezuelan. She was Carlos' main squeeze about fifteen years ago. She'll put the finishing touches on the act.
ramirez		Why's one of Carlos' girlfriends helping us?
amos		Carlos used her... like he uses a lot of women. She emigrated to Israel. Now she wants to get even.
ramirez		What do you mean used her. How?
jack		He put her on an airplane with a bomb in her suitcase. She would have gone up with everything else. What's that song say? There are fifty ways to leave your lover? Make that fifty- one.
amos		She's about thirty-seven... still attractive.
jack		So it's not gonna be a hardship.
ramirez		What's not gonna be a hardship?
jack		Making love to her.
jack		Annibal... the way in is a woman... her name is Agnieska. It's part of the trap. The KGB will be watching her... we'll make sure of that... She's a more recent girlfriend of Carlos... But they've got to be convinced and so does she. Carlos, you, are going to ask her to do something. She has to believe you're him or she won't risk it.
jack		What the fuck are you lookin' at? You're gonna help murder this guy, you draw the moral line at extramarital sex?
jack		Don't think of it as cheating. Think of it as fucking for the flag.
amos		"When in doubt, close your eyes and think of England."
carla		The thing about Carlos is... he doesn't lose himself with a woman... not with a lover... maybe with a whore I don't know... I wasn't his whore. Lovers are different to him... he might have a use for them... so he has to seduce them properly. He has to make sure they're so crazy about him they'll do anything for him.
ramirez		When did you...?
carla		Shhh! You're not here.
carla		You don't exist until I'm ready to let you exist, and then... you do exactly what I say.
carla		It's not pleasure for him... it's... it's... it's... this sick kind of conquest... you know this seduction... he's got to make you not just a lover but a disciple... a worshipper... He brainwashes you with his body... so... so... you'll do anything... you see because he's the perfect lover... he does it all to... not to please you... but to excite you... to... to make it dangerous for you and then, that's very sexy too, to a woman... that danger... like he could kill you in a second... but instead he makes you come... So he's almost killed you, you see? And you have this orgasm right then and it's like he's killed you and there isn't anything left of you and he makes you be born again the way he wants you to be. So there isn't a thought in your brain that he hasn't put there. Not a feeling in your body that he hasn't put there.
carla		Take off your clothes.
ramirez		Just like that?
carla		Look Mister...
ramirez		Miguel...
carla		I don't want to know your name... I don't want to know anything about you okay. This isn't fun for me. I'm not here to play soft music and be romantic. I'm here to help you kill him... At least I hope that's what you're going to do. They promised me it was.
ramirez		Yes.
carla		Take off your clothes.
carla		You're smaller than him.
ramirez		 Great.
carla		That's what he would have done if I would have said something like that. Without a moment's hesitation. What's wrong with you?! No eres ni hombre!
carla		Now come to me and kiss where you hit.
carla		Kiss where the blood is and then smear it on my lips so I taste it.
carla		Now go down on me... yes like that... si... si... tease me... tease... but don't let me come... control me... it's got to be when he wants it... yeah...
carla		Ask me if I like it... he always asks... he wants to hear it.
ramirez		You like it...
carla		Demand it.
ramirez		 You like it?!
carla		Yeah...
ramirez		You like it?!
carla		Make me beg.
ramirez		Beg for it...
carla		Please...
ramirez		Yeah...
carla		Please... Tell me you want me to come...
ramirez		I want you to come now...
carla		You want to feel it all over you...
ramirez		Oh yeah baby... yeah... you make me feel so good.
carla		Stop!... Stop it!
ramirez		What... What'd I do...
carla		He never loses control... He never tells you how he feels. He's in control. He's the one who makes you feel what he wants you to feel. He never feels anything... You stupid... stupid...
carla		Roll over!
ramirez		Why?
carla		On your back!
carla		I'm Carlos... You're me.
carla		You like it...
ramirez		Yeah.
carla		You like it?
ramirez		Oh baby...
carla		Ooooo I want to make you come...
ramirez		Yeah...
carla		I want to make you come... I want to feel it all over me.
ramirez		Yeah... yeahhh... Yeahhhhhh.
ramirez		 What the fuck are you doin'?
carla		Let me... let me do it... Put your hands down.
carla		He does that... he's crazy... he chokes you... just a little.
carla		Then he goes to the refrigerator and eats... He's always hungry afterwards... always... God I feel like filth.
ramirez		I'm sorry... I'm sorry.
carla		Get your hands off me!
ramirez		Shh... I'm not him... I'm not Carlos... I'm...
carla		I don't care who you are. I don't want to know anything about you... except that you're going to kill him.
kgb aide		[Should it?]
kgb aide		[Our Carlos?]
agnieska		My God... My God... It's him.
jack		Well... not the most painful way to burn your bridges behind you, huh Miguel?
ramirez		What do you mean?
jack		Saint Miguel the faithful husband is dead. Long live Carlos. You've cheated on your wife... now you can do anything.
ramirez		What I did in there I didn't do to cheat on my wife and you know it.
jack		Hey, pussy's pussy.
ramirez		I just got it about you, Jack. You can't get it up, can you?
jack		Got what confirmed?
amos		The KGB has set up a surveillance on Agnieska. And Agnieska has received her summons from her long-lost love... Carlos, telling her to come and meet you. At the meeting you convince her you're Carlos. You ask her to handle some bank transactions. She will. Then the KGB knows Carlos and Ortega are the same man. Then later they'll see you meet with a CIA agent. They'll have all the pieces. They'll know Carlos has turned.
ramirez		Where do I meet with this Agnieska?
amos		Libya. That's where Carlos is.
ramirez		Couldn't we wait till he takes a trip? I mean Libya... shit.
amos		The waiting is more dangerous to you than going to Libya. We've laid out a trap. Now we have to be careful not to get caught in it ourselves.
amos		Jack doesn't know that we're having this talk and I don't want him to know... understand?
ramirez		Okay...
amos		Nothing can make you ready for combat but combat. Jack would be against me telling you this... He would say you shouldn't have a thought in your head that we haven't put there but you're not just a box that we're going to fill up with our own ideas. You have a right to know certain things.
ramirez		I appreciate that Amos... a lot. It's funny, I started out hating you... I mean I'm still gonna sue you, don't think you're off the hook for my broken ribs, but...
amos		But now you love me and we're going to run away to San Francisco and find a reformed rabbi to perform a mixed gay marriage. Listen to me... You're going to feel more alone than you've ever felt in your life. It will hit you all of a sudden and you'll think your heart's going to jump out of your chest, you'll think everyone around you can hear your heart beating, and that everyone around you is an enemy agent. I want you to be prepared for that. So you can deal with it. Understand?
ramirez		Yes.
amos		We had an agent... the best we ever had in training. We were going to infiltrate him into Beirut and then use him to penetrate the PFLP. No student ever scored higher than this man... We set up his cover for six months in Argentina. He was perfect. And then we sent him to Beirut. He got off the plane, went to his hotel, went up to his room and had a nervous breakdown.
amos		We had to mount an operation to send in a man posing as a doctor so we could drug him and get him out on a plane. Okay? Now you understand? Nothing prepares you. I want you to know that so when it hits you, you don't panic, you feel the fear and then get rid of it.
ramirez		Jesus...
amos		You splash some water on your face. You take some deep breaths. You look in the mirror and when you look in that mirror, I don't want you to find Annibal Ramirez. You find Carlos. If you find Carlos, that's what everyone else will find too. And if you find Carlos and anything goes wrong, he's the one who can get you out of it. Because he's the best.
ramirez		 I got a wife I got to go back to when this is over. I got kids I got to go back to when this is over. I want to go back as Annibal Ramirez... not Carlos.
amos		You will... you'll need a time of decompression and it will be hard at first, but you will. Because inside you aren't Carlos... you aren't a terrorist. But right now, in order to save your life, you've got to be. You've got to look in the mirror and find Carlos. Do you understand?
ramirez		I do.
amos		You won't be able to go in with a gun... too risky... so we're going to have to get one to you once you're in place. How I don't know yet... But we'll get one to you. You'll make your way out by boat. We'll be on it. But we won't be able to help if anything goes wrong. We'll make our way down the coast to a friendly state and then fly back to London, and from there back to the U.S.
official		El Pass'port!
official		Sheil el Nadara!
official		Ricardo Moran Vargas?
ramirez		Yes.
official		Your business?
ramirez		Pipes. I sell pipes.
official		Pipes?
ramirez		For the oil...
official		Oil?
ramirez		Pipes for oil... Petroleum...
official		 Step over behind the curtain.
official		All right. You can go.
ramirez		 Who's there?
ramirez		 What do you want?
voice		Room service.
ramirez		 I not order nothing.
voice		Iced water.
ramirez		Iced water?
voice		Yes, sir.
voice		Sir...?
ramirez		Jesus.
vladimir		[There she comes...]
nikolai		[Do you see Misha?]
vladimir		[Not yet.]
vladimir		[There he is.]
vladimir		[He's passing her to Leonid. For Russians, they make good Arabs.]
agnieska		I don't know what you're talking about.
agnieska		I don't know any Carlos... please I'm telling you the truth.
agnieska		I don't know what you're talking about... I'm not from here. I just came to visit a girlfriend. This is her apartment. She'll be here tomorrow... please.
agnieska		I swear to you... I'm telling the truth...
agnieska		What... what are you going to do to me.
ramirez		Then I'm going to have something to eat... I'm famished.
agnieska		You bastard! I haven't see you for two years and this is the way you...
ramirez		I had to be sure I could still trust you.
agnieska		I came all the way to this god- forsaken country didn't I? I've been holed up in this place you arranged for me for the past twenty-four hours... I couldn't eat I couldn't sleep... nothing just sitting in here waiting for you.
ramirez		So why did you leave. . .?
agnieska		Whoever stocked this place with food didn't leave much of a selection... I wanted to go out and get some nice things for you. You weren't supposed to be here for another three hours. I could have made a nice dinner.
ramirez		I've got what I want to eat in my arms right now.
jack		I wonder what he's doing now.
amos		Practicing safe sex, I hope.
agnieska		My God... my God...
ramirez		Yeah... Now, let's eat.
ramirez		What are you doing?
agnieska		Just getting some air in here... Don't be so jumpy.
agnieska		Forget about what's in there... I found caviar and, here's some pate.
ramirez		Didn't like the food I'd left for you, huh?
agnieska		Couldn't eat a bite of it.
ramirez		Ughhh... I don't blame you.
ramirez		Who was here smoking a filter-tip cigarette my darling?
agnieska		What?
ramirez		You don't smoke filters.
agnieska		What are you talking about?
ramirez		That's what I'm talking about! The filter-tipped cigarette. Who was here.
agnieska		You're crazy... no one... I... Illich... listen... I ran out of cigarettes and... and I was at a cafe and I bummed a cigarette... I had a cigarette and coffee and came back here... that's all.
ramirez		 You bummed a cigarette... that's all.
agnieska		Yes... yes... you know I can't have coffee without a cigarette.
ramirez		I believe you.
ramirez		The nearest cafe is two blocks away. A cigarette wouldn't have lasted that long... so you bummed a cigarette but it wasn't in a cafe... it was very close to here... In this apartment building. Who did you meet with? That window was a signal wasn't it?! Wasn't it you puta bitch!
ramirez		Tell me or you're dead!
agnieska		The French... the DST... They made me... I didn't have any choice...
ramirez		You sold me out!
vladimir		[Gunfire?! What the hell is going on?!]
koj		Illich... you must get dressed. There was a shooting tonight... We have to talk.
carlos		What shooting... who?
ramirez		What the fuck are you talking about, you didn't know she was working with the DST?
jack		We didn't. How the fuck should we know?
ramirez		They're our allies, for Christ's sake!
jack		They didn't tell us this time. Why should they it was their operation. And we sure as shit weren't gonna let them in on you being here.
ramirez		Why not?! That way they wouldn't have tried to kill me and I wouldn't have wound up killing them.
amos		It would have been too dangerous.
ramirez		Too dangerous... what the fuck do you think that was back there? Safe? How the fuck more dangerous does it have to get?
jack		Annibal, the important thing was it worked! The Russians have to think it was Carlos now... . What did they see? They trail the girl... and then there's a shoot out. Let's make sure they know it was DST... we can make sure they get that information. If they know the DST was there then what were they doing there if it wasn't to get Carlos. She betrayed you, so tomorrow we take her name off the bank account and we set up another place for them to get their pictures. We burned Libya but okay so we'll find another place. The only thing that matters is they've got to believe it now. It's perfect!
ramirez		You fuckin' maniac! I killed four DST agents tonight! They're our allies and they were tryin' to kill me and I killed them. I killed our allies!
jack		Hey fuck our allies!
amos		Annibal... policemen wind up shooting other policemen... it happens. I would rather have you here feeling guilty about them than to know there was a meeting in Paris tonight where they were feeling guilty about you.
jack		Annibal... you did what you had to do and it worked. All the training worked. Carlos couldn't have done it any better.
kgb aide		[Whether Carlos was actually in there with her or not we don't know... All we know is there was a gun battle... DST agents from what we've been able to find out. But whether or not it was Carlos...]
carlos		So the moronic DST find an old girlfriend and send her here to bait a honey trap for me... and then they trip over their own dicks and start shooting each other... why?
koj		There was a man with her... who we don't know... They must have spotted him come in... thought it was you and moved too soon... before she even made contact with you. Whoever he was... he was awfully good.
carlos		Where is the girl now?
koj		They've taken her to Paris.
carlos		I want the bitch dead!
koj		It won't be easy.
carlos		If it was going to be easy I could hire a couple of junkies. I want the cunt dead! You handle it Koj. Hit her in Paris, right under their fucking noses and leave Europe through London.
koj		When?
carlos		Now! Leave now. Not this afternoon... not five minutes from now... Now!
carlos		Something else troubles me my friends. How was this woman going to make contact with me. You're the only ones who knew about this safe house. So one of you was her contact.
aide		[This afternoon... the girl and two DST agents dead, one wounded.]
aide		[Why?]
ramirez		 Is this seat taken?
jack		No, go right ahead.
ramirez		I want to go home. I want to see my family.
jack		This isn't the place for this conversation.
ramirez		 No rules, remember? I want to go home. You said yourself we can't move again till he leaves Libya. You don't even know when that's gonna be. He might stay there another year for Christ's sake.
jack		No he won't. He's gonna make a move and it'll be in Europe just to stick it up the DST's nose. I'm gonna go and find out about our connecting flight.
koj		 Carlos... what are you doing here?
ramirez		 You idiot! Don't you know better than to approach me in public!
koj		 Excuse me sir... I only wanted to know where I could buy a newspaper.
ramirez		Go over there by the phone booths and wait... I'll come to you.
koj		 Excuse me sir... I asked if you knew where I could buy a newspaper.
koj		Make the slightest move and I shoot... and I don't miss. Walk to the rest room, very carefully.
koj		Tell me what I want to know quickly or you're dead.
amos		Get out of here... now...
ramirez		I've got to get you to a doctor.
amos		Get out now...
ramirez		I'm not going to let you die here... I've still got a lawsuit against you, remember?
amos		My dear boy... my dear dear boy... I am dead. Please God, don't let it all be for nothing... Get out now...
amos		Walk slowly... no attention.
phone voice		Cousins Industrial Maintenance, may I help you?
jack		Mister Simon Wicks, please.
phone voice		Ringing.
jack		This is Jack Shaw. Could you send a clean-up crew to Heathrow. We've had a rather nasty spill.
jack		 Yes... I'm calling about my cousin... Oh Jesus... Oh Jesus...
ramirez		Oh God... no...
jack		 I understand... Yes... Good bye.
ramirez		Amos?
jack		He's dead.
ramirez		Why?! Why didn't you let me go back to him... If we'd have gotten him help sooner instead of... instead of "we had a rather nasty spill!" Is that what it was Jack? Is that all Amos was... a rather nasty spill, mop it up, it'll be okay?! Huh?!
jack		 He would have been dead anyway and he knew it. That's why he told you to get out.
jack		 Looks like you're going to get to see your family after all.
ramirez		What?
jack		You're going home... it's off... for the time being at least.
ramirez		Bullshit! I want him. I want that son of a bitch Carlos! And I want him dead!
jack		Tough shit what you want, Annibal. Koj had a ticket for Libya on him. Chances are he wasn't looking for you but...
ramirez		He wasn't looking for me... He thought I was Carlos!
jack		That's what I think too but the Director wants an operation review board... The DST shoot out... the girl winds up dead in Paris... now this... I've got to go back for the review and you've got to go home.
ramirez		No way man... it was my fault... the whole thing... I want him dead!
jack		What do you mean it was your fault?
ramirez		When he asked me about the paper... if I coulda just bullshitted my way...
jack		It was a password... you didn't know it... anything you would have tried would have backfired. I had a thing like that... Awfully warm for this time of year... the response was, yes but not as sticky as two summers ago... the guy says anything else... he even hesitates, you shoot him. I shot him... There was nothing else you could have done.
ramirez		I'm not leavin' till we get him.
jack		Nobody's askin' you. They're shuttin' us down. You go back home... maybe I'll see you again... maybe I won't. You'll either hear from me or you'll get new sea duty and that's the end of it.
ramirez		Just like that?
jack		Just like that. I ain't the Madam kid... I'm just one of the whores. And so are you.
ramirez		What's wrong?
maura		You've been with another woman... haven't you.
ramirez		What are you talking about?
maura		Haven't you?
ramirez		No. What... what would make you say a thing like that?
maura		You're different...
ramirez		Maura... I was on a submarine... there aren't any women on submarines... There was nothin' to do but read. They had one of those... how to improve your sex life books... I must have read it about ten times. I tried out a couple of things from chapter three okay? I mean if it didn't turn you on blame Doctor Ruth okay?
maura		 Okay.
ramirez		Great. You want to check with the Navy to see if we had shore leave... I'll get you a fuckin' letter okay?
maura		I don't need any letters. And I don't need you to talk to me like that either.
maura		Where are you going?
ramirez		Get somethin' to eat... I'm starving.
ramirez		Maura... Maura!
maura		What?
ramirez		Where's the car? The car's not in the garage. Where's the car?
maura		The fellow at the service station said it needed a tune up. I took it in this morning... You didn't say you were going to need it.
ramirez		Don't do that anymore.
maura		What?
ramirez		I don't want anybody workin' on the car. Car needs something I'll do it. But I don't want anybody touchin' that car.
maura		Why? What difference does it make.
ramirez		It makes a difference to me okay? So don't do it.
maura		Did you check the mail?
ramirez		Yeah I checked the mail. Still nothin' from the Navy. Why, you so anxious to get rid of me?
maura		I don't want you goin' back to those subs. I'll tell you that.
ramirez		Yeah well I don't have much to say about it. It's the Navy you know.
maura		You can request another assignment. It's changed you Annibal. It's hurting us.
ramirez		What's hurting us?
maura		Your attitude... that's what hurting us.
ramirez		My attitude. I don't have an attitude man... you got an attitude.
maura		You're suspicious of everything that goes on... you snap at Joey, you snap at me. I don't like it.
ramirez		Look I just... it's hard gettin' used to... you know... it's hard... Listen... tomorrow's Joey's game. Let's just go to Joey's game. It'll be nice. It'll be like it always was. You'll see.
ramirez		Okay... remember, what do we do?
joey		Keep my eye on the ball.
ramirez		And who's the guy who wins?
joey		Whoever has fun, wins.
ramirez		Right! So you go out there and have fun.
frank		I don't want so see you out there dickin' around today, you understand?
tyler		Yes sir.
frank		You're gonna be focused and aggressive and you're gonna play to win. Got it?
frank		Hey, you think I'm talking just to hear myself talk? Look at me when I'm talking to you!
ramirez		Hey pal, lighten up, what do you say? It's just a game?
frank		What did you say?
ramirez		I said lighten up. It's just a game and he's just a kid.
frank		He's my kid.
ramirez		Great. So why don't we let our kids have a good time. Come on, I'll buy you a beer.
frank		I don't need you to buy me a fuckin' beer, you piece of shit. And you stick your face in my business again and I'll beat the living fuck out of you. What do you say to that?
frank		What are you smilin' at, asshole?
ramirez		 A dead man...
maura		Annibal please. Let's go sit down.
frank		Good idea, Annabelle. Your ol' lady just saved your ass.
maura		Annibal... please... Please...
frank		What are you doin' standing here?! You're supposed to be over there with your team! Now move!
frank		I said...
captain		 He's all yours.
jack		Little League, huh? Tough game.
ramirez		What are you doing here?
jack		It's show time.
ramirez		I got to have time to think it over.
jack		There isn't any time. He's on his way to East Berlin. We have word he's planning another attack in Europe. He'll be there maybe four days at the most.
ramirez		Hey, I don't know what to do anymore, okay? I almost killed some little kid's father today. I don't know about anything anymore.
jack		Hey, he was a baseball dad. He deserved it. Besides, from what I heard his kid was out, so what's the beef?
ramirez		I don't know if I could come back from it again.
jack		What happened to I want the son of a bitch dead? You think Carlos has had a change of heart and turned nice all of a sudden?
ramirez		Don't tell me about Carlos, Jack. I know exactly who Carlos is. I know a hell of a lot better than you do. But, maybe there's more important things to me, like keepin' from goin' crazy... like gettin' back to bein' me instead of me bein' some kind of fuckin' maniac.
jack		You want to get back to bein' you? Then finish it. Kill him. Kill him and he's dead and it's over with. You walk away from it now and what do you think you're gonna be like the next time you read that that son of a bitch blew up some airplane full of women and kids.
ramirez		Hey, the guy deserves to be dead. I know that.
jack		This isn't abstract, Annibal. You're walkin' around with his face. Sooner or later one of the bad guys is gonna see it like Koj did, and next time Amos won't be there to take the bullet for you. Carlos doesn't forget. You help me get him or you're never gonna know when he's comin' after you... Listen to me kid. I don't have any friends, no family, no nothin'. The only relationships I ever had that mattered to me were with the people I killed. But I... I fucking created you! You can't just walk away now.
ramirez		You did create me, didn't you... From the beginning... that kid in the hospital in Bethesda... when I was supposed to be the doctor... It was all bullshit, wasn't it? All an act...
jack		This doesn't have anything to do with you and me. It's you and Carlos. You help me kill him... or I swear to you... I'll make sure he knows about you... I'll use you for bait. You and your whole fuckin' family too.
jack		Huh? Huh?
jack		You want to try and kill me, that doesn't solve your problem, pally. You've got a Carlos problem. That's the guy you've got to kill. That's what it's all about now... you... and your family... or him.
maura		No! I won't let you do it! You're not going back to those subs! It's changed you... You need help, Annibal. You could get some kind of stress disability or...
ramirez		Enough!
maura		No, not enough. Whatever is going on out there with your job...
ramirez		With my job!? What do you think my job is, Maura... huh? What do you think is out there? A nice, pretty safe little world with shopping malls and little league and ballet lessons. You sit here in your little kitchen and cook your little meals...
ramirez		People are killing people out there! Jackals are licking up their blood waiting for the next corpse to drop... and I'm one of them. You get that? Do you get that now?!
ramirez		I've murdered people. Not safe and clean and surgical firing a missile from some ship, but close and with my hands so their blood splattered on me... so their brains splattered on me. And they weren't the enemy, Maura... they were Allies. They were on our side. It was just to keep a cover... I've betrayed everything I ever believed in. I've betrayed you... I've fucked other women... I've killed men... There was a woman I would have killed but I just ran out of time. I've let friends die... I've become a terrorist... and I've made you and the children a target. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? Do you see me now? Do you see the monster? There's another one worse than me and he is out there and he will kill you and the children if I don't kill him first... . That's my job, Maura. And if you don't mind, I'm late for work.
jack		We used a double agent to get word to the Russians that Carlos is really here to close his deal with us and not to plan a new attack in Europe. He has a new girlfriend... He's been fucking her brains out since he got here. He has her brought over every night in a limo. You'll be dropped near the mansion... as soon as she goes in, you make as if you're sneaking out... the Russians will be watching. You'll go to the meet. It's at that beer hall, there... see? You see it?
ramirez		Got it.
jack		You go to the meet at the beer hall. Play it out... let 'em take your picture... then you've got to get back. They're going to have to analyze the pictures and see through your disguise before they can authorize a hit. They won't be able to do that before you're able to get back to the mansion. At twenty-one fifteen a Volga with diplomatic plates, DC- four-five-nine-two will come by the northeast corner of the compound. It will slow down... you jump in. If you can't make it for any reason, there will be another run at exactly twenty-one forty-five. It's your only ticket out so don't be late.
ramirez		Who do I meet? Who's my contact?
jack		Me... My ass is on the line too.
ramirez		Who cares? This isn't you and me. It's me and him. If the Russians don't go for the bait for any reason...
jack		If the Russians don't go for the bait for any reason you will have gotten out of there at twenty-one fifteen per orders.
ramirez		If the Russians don't go for the bait for any reason, I'll go in there and kill him myself. And if I'm still alive I might just come looking for you.
ivan		[Look!]
andrei		[You think it's him?]
jack		 Come on... come on...
ramirez		Not till he's dead, Jack. Not till he's dead.
jack		Shit.
technician		[His name is Jack Shaw. CIA Counterterrorism.]
ramirez		 Don't blow it Comrades... kill him.
carlos		KGB? I thought...
carlos		Jack Shaw...?
carlos		 Comrade, you'd getter have an explanation --
carlos		My pants...
carlos		 That's what was going on in Libya. The CIA... The DST... They're trying to set me up and you're falling for it, you idiot!
carlos		That's impossible. I've been here all night.  Tell him.
blonde		 It's true. All night...
carlos		 I'll prove it to you. You'll be pleading for my forgiveness. Let's just go. I want to be interrogated. I demand to be interrogated.
ramirez		What the fuck?
ramirez		Kill him... Kill him...
jack		Let's get the fuck out of here.
jack		Have you come looking for me now, Annibal?
jack		Awfully warm for this time of year isn't it?
ramirez		Any word?
jack		How you feeling?
ramirez		Did he get away?
ramirez		Then it was all for nothing... the whole thing.
jack		No it wasn't. He's finished. The KGB bought it. As far as they're concerned, he's the enemy now. He'll bounce around from one country to the next. But his paymasters have disowned him. None of their client states will risk using him. No one'll trust him again. He'll spend the rest of his life looking over his shoulder waiting to be betrayed. And it'll happen... sooner or later... when it's to some country's advantage... they'll give him up or they'll trade him. He's finished. It worked and he's finished.
ramirez		Not for me he isn't... There are still two of us...
maura		Is it over?
ramirez		No.
ramirez		You have to make a new life for yourself and the children.
maura		No.
ramirez		Maura, anytime I start a car I'll wonder if this is the one that explodes. I couldn't bear the thought of you and the children being in that danger. He'll want me and everyone I've ever loved to be dead. Trust me... I know how he thinks because it's the way I think now too. I am so... sorry. I am so sorry...
maura		I won't leave you.
ramirez		Maura, when my father was put into prison he told my mother to take me and leave and start a new life. That's what you've got to do.
maura		You're not in prison and I'm not your mother and I won't leave you. I will not let him do this to us. Not him... not the CIA... not anyone.
ramirez		He'll come after me.
maura		Get me a gun and teach me to shoot and he'll have to deal with both of us. This animal will not destroy my family. Please... come home.
crawford		How does one even begin to comprehend a tragedy like this. A highly respected Naval officer returns from six months of hazardous duty. He has escaped the danger we all come to know in the service of our country. He is about to go to church with his beloved family and in an instant... they are no more. They are with God. Our minds cannot comprehend such tragedy... only an undying faith in the Almighty a faith that says even though we cannot see it, there is a plan. That and the knowledge that as in life, so for eternity are they together...
jack		Now you're free.
postman		Mister Mendoza?
mendoza		Yes.
postman		Special delivery letter for you sir.
postman		Not bad news I hope.
mendoza		Someone... died.
postman		I'm so sorry.
mendoza		This guy's better off dead.
postman		No one is better off dead I think.
mendoza		Some people are.
joey		Poppi... come down and play with us.
carlos		I like to be unannounced. It's safer that way.
carlos		I know.
doctor		Feeling drowsy now?
carlos		Yes...
doctor		Would you like to see what your new face is going to look like when we're done?
carlos		Yes... of course.
doctor		It's going to look just like this...
****Dialogues from script :At_First_Sight.txt****

amy		I'm lost Betsy, and you know me - I don't wear lost well - wait, wait I'm losing you...  I'm pulling over before you disappear forever.
amy		Sign? I was looking for a sign? There's no...
amy		Wait, I got it - yeah. No don't call me.. right, unless you hear from Atlanta. And fax me the designs - I want to tinker with them a bit more ... I'm going to rest - bye - I'll see you in a week.
amy		Oh p-lease, Whitney.
caroline		we have a full weight room, lifecycles, stairmasters, a spa, yoga, aerobics, spin classes...
amy		I'm really just looking for a quick fix, here. Do you have anything that just involves lying down?
caroline		A massage.
amy		Great. I'll have one a day. Not too early.
woman's voice		Virgil, Oh God..., right there. Yes.
woman's voice		Yes there - a bit more...  --wait - wait, you can't stop - one more minute - noo!
virgil's voice		Sorry, Susan - time's up. I've got someone waiting.
susan		Virgil, you have to come live with me.
virgil's voice		And what would your husband say? Amy, you out there? - c'mon in.
susan		That's it - I'm getting a divorce.
virgil		Hey, Amy, I'm Virgil - why don't you get ready - hop up on the table.
amy		Sounds like you're a genius at this.
virgil		 That's right.. Mozart, Einstein, Virgil Anderson, massage therapist. Now I'm going to start working somewhat deep - you let me know if you want anything deeper.
amy		Deeper is good - where I come from, all you get is shallow.
virgil		I like that - deep it is.
virgil		First time in Pinecrest?
amy		Came in late last night.. missed the town completely.
virgil		If you came in broad daylight, you could still miss the town completely.
virgil		Too much compute? work.
amy		Uh-huh.
virgil		Bad chair - you should think about a change.
amy		 Absolutely.
virgil		Too deep?
amy		No.. ..... just right.
virgil		I - I'm sorry - it was too deep...
amy		No - it.. It's not you.. It's just things have kinda built up, I don't know why I'm crying.. look, this is embarrassing...
amy		Yeah, thanks. You always make the girls cry.
virgil		Not since grade school. I'm going to go now - unless you'd like me to stay.
amy		Could you - just for a minute?
virgil		Of course, whatever you need.
amy		You ever feel like a Martian's invaded your entire body?
virgil		Every day.
amy		Virgil?
amy		Virgil - wait...
amy		Virgil, hey.
virgil		Yes.
amy		It's Amy - Amy Tremont.
virgil		Of course - you were sleeping, didn't want to wake you.
amy		Yes thanks - you're the skater, right - I saw you last night, coming in. Pretty mean slapshot. You play on some team or something?
virgil		Yeah, something. You a hockey fan?
amy		Always liked it - never get around to seeing a game. But I loved to skate as a kid - unfortunately I have two left feet.
virgil		 They look perfectly OK with me.
amy		I love the view you get here.
virgil		Same here - I never get used to it.
virgil		Well, this is my ride. Hey Tommy, my man.
tommy		Virge.
amy		Well, I just wanted to apologize for back there - blubbering like that - I was just in a weird place.
virgil		And now...
amy		Now, I'm fine - so I wanted to thank- you. For what you did.
virgil		For making you cry.
amy		No, I made me cry - and you handled it great - didn't freak or anything.  Is my mascara smeared or something?
virgil		 No. Why?
amy		You're just looking at me funny.
carl		Virgil - lets move it.
virgil		As I said earlier - I just never get used to the view.
virgil		See you tomorrow.
amy		See you... oh my God.
virgil		What?
amy		You're, you're -- I'm so sorry.
virgil		 Hey, you already apologized once - no need to overdo it. Bye now.
virgil		Get of f the couch, Sophie.
virgil		Some seeing eye dog - more like sleeping eye dog.
virgil		Met a girl today - nice voice - followed me out of the building.
virgil		No she wasn't a stalker.
virgil		Hey, you're here - so how are the kids today?
jennie		The usual - need a lot of attention. So who's the girl?
virgil		From the spa. I made her cry.
jennie		You haven't done that since--
virgil		 That's what I told her. Coke?
jennie		I'm fine. Your dinner's ready - chicken's at 3 o'clock - rice is at...
virgil		6 o'clock, peas at 9 o'clock
jennie		 One day I'm going to switch them on you.
virgil		And one day I'll play forward for the New York Rangers.
virgil		Or a new sister.
jennie		I'd work on the jokes.
virgil		You want to watch some hockey?
jennie		 I'll be next door you need me.
virgil		You know this girl - for one moment - she actually thought I could  Wonder what she thinks about "blind dates."
amy		DAMMIT!
amy		Coming!
amy		Virgil..?
virgil		My turn to apologize. I should have told you I was blind it wasn't fair.
amy		That's OK. You want to come in - I just got out of the shower - give me a minute to get changed?
virgil		 Sure, I promise I won't look.
virgil		Anyways, I was in the neighborhood -- actually the whole town's my neighborhood -- and since you've never been to our illustrious village, I thought maybe we could go into town - see what we see.
amy		See what we see?
virgil		Figure of speech .
amy		You mean right now, tonight?
virgil		Great - I'm blind and you're deaf - what a pair.
virgil		... the Mechanic at the top of the street is Doug - smokes too much - but a good guy. Three steps down is Carlson's hardware - he's got a laugh like a donkey - we sometimes listen to games together - he's a Devil's fan. And just up ahead should be Grady's junk shop - he calls it "antiques"... Smells like junk. I'd hate to see what it looks like .
virgil		 Hey Nancy.
nancy		Hey Virgil - got that book in for you.
virgil		Nancy's our librarian, brings in any braille book I want.
nancy		 The guy's nuts about the pyramids - anything he can get his hands on...
virgil		Thank-you Nancy - you should get your groceries home - your ice cream's melting.
amy		Nice place - you seem to know everyone here.
virgil		Moved here when I was eight. My family figured it would be a good place for me to grow up. Tell me what you see.
amy		Well, there's a good structure to the town - genuine lines, good use of space. To be honest I'd find a better balance to a lot of these buildings. But that's me.
virgil		What's you?
amy		The architect in me - can't leave well enough alone. Art school in college - I made the arms for the Venus DeMilo.  see, the Venus De Milo has no arms and...
virgil		 I know the Venus De Milo has no arms, and the Mona Lisa has this captivating smile and David doesn't wear a fig leaf.
amy		How do you...
virgil		I may not have been a lot of places - but I read about things, then make an image up here --  --that works for me.
virgil		This is the end of the street. We should turn back.
amy		What about past the end of the street? What's out there?
virgil		 Nothing.
amy		No - there's an old run down building off to the side...
virgil		Must be the old firehouse. It had a fire so they shut it down.  What else do you see?
amy		A wall of shrubs - a field with an interesting configuration of trees.
virgil		Tell me how you see it.
amy		 OK, sure. Let's see - long and elegant. Like -- like a woman dancing with two lovers, trying to decide which one she loves.
amy		What?
virgil		It's just - the image you just gave me - "Dancing trees. - I like that.
virgil		We should go - it's starting to rain.
amy		 There's a bit of a breeze but--
amy		I can't believe how fast it happens...
amy		Virgil?
virgil		You like rain - I love the rain.
amy		 What were you just doing there?
virgil		Listening - the rain - it brings out the contours of everything, gives life to a room I can't see.
amy		Looks like it's...
virgil		No, listen for it - not what it looks like - what it becomes. Come here.
virgil		Now just listen to it - shut out everything but that sound - do you hear it?
amy		Yes - there - it's soft - like a shimmer
virgil		The wind blowing the rain against a window.
amy		 Like a cymbal. It's like our own percussive symphony, isn't it?
virgil		The world is invisible to me - with my touch it comes alive. But only one thing at a time. But when it's raining, I feel everything at once. Sometimes, I wish it could rain inside rain all around us.
amy		 "Einfuehlung."
virgil		What?
amy		Einfuehlung - it's an architectural term. It means to share an empathy. Been a long time since I felt that.
amy		No, I'm fine, really. It was just something passing through me - can't explain it - a good thing.
amy		What you just showed me  how I feel - makes me smile.
virgil		I see it now. Thank-you.
amy		You kidding? today, I'm looking for a complete nervous breakdown.
virgil		I love a challenge.
amy		Can I ask how long you've been blind?
virgil		Of course, most people avoid the subject. You tell them you're blind and they act surprised. "You're blind? Reallv? I didn't know - you hide it so well." And then they wave their hand in front of your face just to make sure.  It started when I was a little over a year old.
amy		 You see shadows?
virgil		No. Congenital cataracts. And a case of retinitis pigmentosa thrown in for good measure. This area needs to loosen up.
amy		I think you're doing it.  No bright lights, nothing?
virgil		I'm blind as a bat. Actually, blinder 'cause they emit sonar all the time. I don't have a sixth sense, I just don't have the fifth one. I can't hear things in Vermont, can't smell if you're mad at me, and, no - I don't know Helen Keller, Ray Charles or Stevie Wonder.
virgil		You say something?
amy		No, I just - this feels nice - too nice.
amy		You're very good.. at what you do.
virgil		Thank-you.
amy		You enjoy it.
virgil		At times. Some clients make it more enjoyable than others.
amy		And this client...
virgil		Is very, very...
amy		What?
virgil		Sorry - it's time. I've got Mr. Ketchum coming in next - all two hundred pounds. Sorry - I felt like we were just getting started.
amy		Thank-you. For last night as well - love to do it again.
virgil		How about I cook dinner then, tonight.
amy		I'd like that.
caroline		Amy
amy		Virgil - it's Amy. I - I can't make dinner - I'm really sorry - an emergency came up - they're dragging me back to New York.
virgil		Oh. Yeah. Anything serious?
amy		The project we were working on was rejected - could go down the drain. I'll deal with it quick - I'd like to come back.
virgil		Yeah. Good. Well. I'll be here.
virgil		-DAMN IT!!!
virgil		Shit - that was stupid.
duncan		Absolutely Mr. Falk - something lj missing - we realize that now. We just need some time to figure out what.
duncan		 And budget. Yes sir. Don't worry, we won't let you down.
duncan		Don't say it, I know. You were never happy with the design.
duncan		But you'd have tinkered with it till the job went away. So now we've got him hooked, you've got your second chance.
amy		Look at these site photos - see those trees - we were going to get rid of them - let's incorporate them into the design use what's natural about the location.  And by the way - the 53rd St. lobby - coming back from Pinecrest, I came up with a new addition - add some life to that place.
amy		What? I can't have a couple of ideas.  Fine, you want to know - I met a guy.  Betsy stands.  BETSY Too modern for me.
amy		So much for the "we're all friends here" idea.
betsy		I hate to admit it but I agree with Duncan on this one. AMY  Don't shoot. BETSY He makes sense sometimes. My father had a problem a few years back with severe cataracts. Do you have any idea what you're getting into?
amy		 I need more than that, Betsy. For once in a long, long time I feel like I can breathe again. Just the way he touches me I know I found someone I can connect with.
virgil		 Hockey stick. Here.
amy		 This is tough.
virgil		Jen, this is Amy Tremont.
jennie		I was just at the market Virgil, picking up a few things before school - and I thought you might like some...
virgil		It was my fault. I'm OK.
virgil		 Goddamit, Jennie - I said I was OK - leave me alone!
amy		Virgil, I just got some great news.
amy		No, no - I was talking to my assistant this morning - her father had these severe cataracts...
amy		She put me in touch with a Dr. Richard Aaron - the guy's the leading eye surgeon on the eastern seaboard - he's been working with techniques - I don't know all the jargon - but I spoke to him earlier on the phone at the Institute...
virgil		No problem. That's the whole point here Amy - there is no goddamned problem.
amy		I'm sorry. Told you - can't leave well enough alone. I - I guess I should get back, start to pack... VIRGIL Rushing into trees again?
amy		No - what?
virgil		C'mere.
virgil		The other night - when we were dancing - being with you - I felt different - special - I don't know - whole.
aaron		Good news in that I should be able to remove them with little or no damage to your cornea.
amy		Well, if the super catches you playing ball in the hall, he'll have a coronary.
amy		Got it - here take my arm.  Couch, chair, TV to the left, low table at.. .at 4 o'clock, has the phone on it...
amy		It's not done yet - one day I'll finish it.
amy		Alright. A movie. I won't be long.
amy		You. Me. Everyone is staring at us.
amy		 You mean it. I mean I only want you to have the operation...
jennie		How're you feeling?
virgil		OK - a little pain, like a tequila hang over - is Amy here?
virgil		 Okay - wait. So - so - what do I do? I mean, what will I see first?
aaron		Well - we're all here - Amy, your sister. This is new for us all. Why don't we find out?
jennie		It's not fine - don't say it's fine.
amy		Virgil, it's just the camera.
jennie		He's thirsty - someone get him a drink!!
virgil		No - just a can - a bottle -- put something in my hands!
amy		What just happened in there?
aaron		He sees you. He just doesn't understand that he sees you.
jennie		You didn't think of this?
amy		So what are we supposed to do now - you saw him - it's like he's another person in there.
aaron		He won't need to stay here - take him home - let him rest. But I will need to see him every couple of days for the next month.
jennie		But I can't stay here - and you can't do this alone--who's going to take care.. .?
virgil		I'm not blind anymore - and I'm not going to let someone I care about walk out of my life again.
jennie		 It's not your fault he left. You can't keep blaming yourself.
virgil		God, I feel like... like such a child - I just thought seeing would be different.
amy		No - no. This is your first seeing day.  I want you to see everything.
webster		What? - I'm Anne Bancroft all of a sudden? I'm a professor - I teach people, how to teach the blind how to become independent.  There's no book on what you're going through - I'd like to help - but like the rest of things in life - it's up to you.
virgil		Wait a minute - up to me? I thought you were going to help me here.
virgil		That's all it is right now - one big trick. Nothing makes any sense. I can't function like this.
webster		 -- we've got to look as well.
virgil		Amy. Let's go.
amy		Blue.
virgil		Blue. OK, good - that's a mailbox - it's blue. There - we've started.
amy		Fine. Let's walk.
virgil		Jennie?! Jennie.. God, I'm sorry - c'mon in - this is my friend Ethan - what are you doing here?
virgil		No. I - I don't want to see him. My eyes aren't good enough - not yet - he won't understand. It won't be enough.
amy		Look - about this party tonight - it's no big deal - maybe we should just...
virgil		It's your partner's birthday. We should go - besides you wanted me to meet your friends, right?
betsy		You know my father was blind for several years, he had cataracts as well.
kevin		I'll get you a drink.
amy		 Aw - no - I really...
virgil		What I want is to make it work with Amy.
amy		Not so bad. DUNCAN It's nice to dance together again.
virgil		Wait - no - this isn't your fault - I'm the one's been a shit. You're too hard on yourself - expect too much of yourself.
****Dialogues from script :August__Osage_County.txt****

beverly		Not hard to imagine, faced with Eliot's first wife, lovely Viv, how Crane or Berryman might have reacted, just foot-raced to the nearest bridge; Olympian Suicidalists.
beverly		My wife takes pills and I drink. That's the bargain we've struck.
beverly		The reasons why we partake are anymore inconsequential.
johnna		Yes, sir.
beverly		May I ask how?
johnna		He had a heart attack. Fell into a flatbed truck full of wine grapes.
beverly		Wine grapes. In Oklahoma.   I'm sorry.
violet		Bev...?!
beverly		Yes?
violet		Did you pullish? Did you...Oh, goddamn                * it... did. You. Are the police here?
beverly		No...
violet		Am I looking through window? A window?
beverly		Can you come here?
violet		Oh.    Hello.
beverly		Johnna, the young woman I told you about.
violet		You tell me she's a woman. Wo-man. Whoa-man.
beverly		That I'm hiring --
violet		Oh, you hire women's now the thing. I thought you meant the other woman.
beverly		To cook and clean, take you to the clinic and to the --
violet		 In the int'rest of ...civil action, your par-tic-u-lars way of speak- king, I thought you meant you had thought a whoa-man to be HIRED!
beverly		I don't understand you.
violet		 Hello.
johnna		Hello.
violet		I'm sorry.  Like this.
johnna		Yes, ma'am.
violet		You're very pretty.
johnna		Thank you.
violet		Are you an Indian? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    6. 8   CONTINUED:                                                       8
johnna		Yes, ma'am.
violet		Do you think I'm pretty?
johnna		Yes, ma'am.
violet		 Like this?
beverly		Careful...
violet		You're the house now. I'm sorry, I took some medicine for my mussss... muscular.
beverly		Why don't you go back to bed, sweetheart?
violet		Why don't you go fuck a fucking sow's ass?
beverly		All right.
violet		I'm sorry. I'll be sickly sweet. I'm soooooooo sweet. In-el-abrially sweet.
beverly		We keep unusual hours here. Try not to differentiate between night and day. You won't be able to keep a healthy routine.
johnna		I need the work.
beverly		I myself require very little attention, thrive without it, sort of a human cactus. My wife has been diagnosed with a touch of cancer, so she'll need to be driven to Tulsa for her final chemotherapy treatments. You're welcome to use that American- made behemoth parked out in the drive. Welcome to make use of anything, everything, all this garbage we've acquired, our life's work. Do you have any questions?
johnna		What kind of cancer?
beverly		My God, I nearly neglected the punch line: mouth cancer.
johnna		What pills does she take?
beverly		Valium. Vicodin. Darvon, Darvocet. Percodan, Percocet. Xanax for fun. OxyContin in a pinch. And of course Diluadid. I can't forget Diluadid.
jean		...Mom?
barbara		Mmm...
jean		You didn't hear the phone?
barbara		If it's your father, tell him to fuck off.
jean		It's Aunt Ivy in Oklahoma.
barbara		...Ivy? ...what's wrong?
ivy		Mom...?  Mom?
violet		...You've been out there...?
ivy		She's on her way.
violet		What'd you tell her?
ivy		I told her Dad was missing. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   11. 14   CONTINUED:                                                      14
violet		Did you tell her how long he'd been missing?
ivy		Five days.
violet		What did she say?
ivy		She said she was on her way.
violet		Goddamn it, Ivy, what did she say?
ivy		She said she was on her way.
violet		You're hopeless.  Goddamn your father for putting me through this. Seen that office of his, all that mess? I can't make heads or tails of it. He hired this Indian for some goddamn reason and now I have a stranger in my house. What's her name?
ivy		Johnna.   Who was on the phone?
violet		This house is falling apart, something about the basement or the sump pump or the foundation. I don't know anything about it. I can't do this by myself.
ivy		I called Karen.
violet		What did she say?
ivy		She said she'd try to get here.
violet		She'll be a big fat help, just like you.  I need Barb.
ivy		What's Barb going to be able to do?
violet		What did you do to your hair?
ivy		I had it straightened.
violet		You had it straightened.    Why would anybody do that?
ivy		I just wanted a change.
violet		You're the prettiest of my three girls, but you always look like a schlub. Why don't you wear makeup?
ivy		Do I need makeup?
violet		All women need makeup. Don't let anybody tell you different. The only woman who was pretty enough to go without makeup was Elizabeth Taylor and she wore a ton. Stand up straight.
ivy		Mom.
violet		Your shoulders are slumped and your hair's all straight and you don't wear makeup. You look like a lesbian.
ivy		I'm not looking for a man. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   13. 14   CONTINUED:                                                   14
violet		There are a lot of losers out there, don't think I don't know that. But just because you got a bad one last time doesn't mean --
ivy		Barry wasn't a loser.
violet		Barry was an asshole. I warned you from the jump, first time you brought him over here in his little electric car with his stupid orange hair and that turban --
ivy		It wasn't a turban --
violet		You work at a college. Don't tell me there aren't people coming through the door of that library every day.
ivy		You want me to marry some eighteen year old boy from one of these hick towns?
violet		They still have teachers at TU, right? They did when your father taught there.
ivy		I wasn't counting.
violet		Like a son-of-a-bitch.   My tongue is on fire.
ivy		Are you supposed to be smoking? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   14. 14   CONTINUED:                                                    14
violet		Is anybody supposed to smoke?
ivy		You have cancer of the mouth.
violet		Just leave it alone.
violet		Course I'm scared. And you are a comfort, sweetheart. Thank God one of my girls stayed close to home.
ivy		Aunt Mattie Fae's here.
violet		She means to come in here and tell me what's what.
ivy		I don't know how Uncle Charlie puts up with it.
violet		He smokes a lot of grass.
ivy		He does?
violet		He smokes a lot of grass.
mattie fae		I told Vi, "Take all those goddamn books he's so fond of and make a big pile in the front yard and have yourself a bonfire."
charlie		You don't burn a man's books.
mattie fae		You do, if the situation calls for it.
charlie		The man's books didn't do anything.
mattie fae		You get any ideas about just up and taking off, Charlie Aiken, you better believe --
charlie		I'm not going anywhere.
mattie fae		I'm saying if you did, I'll give you two days to get your head straight and then it's all going up in a blaze of glory. Not that you have any books lying around. I don't think I've ever seen you read a book in my life.
charlie		That bother you?
mattie fae		What's the last book you read?
charlie		Beverly was a teacher; teachers read books, I'm in the upholstery business.
mattie fae		Ah, sweetie. Your daddy's done this before. Just takes off, no call, nothing. I told your mother, "You pack that son-of-a-bitch's bags and have `em waiting for him on the front porch."
mattie fae		Where's your mother?
ivy		Upstairs.
charlie		They've always had trouble, Ivy.
mattie fae		He'll come back again, I know he will, he always does. Beverly is a very complicated man.
ivy		Kind of like Charles.
charlie		Yes, like Little Charles. Exactly --
mattie fae		Oh.   He's nothing like Little Charles.
charlie		She just means in their sort of quiet complicated ways --
mattie fae		Little Charles isn't complicated, he's just unemployed.
charlie		He's an observer.
mattie fae		All he observes is the television.  Why is it so dark in here?
charlie		So you can't even see Ivy's point? That Little Charles and Beverly share some kind of... complication.
mattie fae		You have to be smart to be complicated. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   17. 16   CONTINUED:                                                    16
charlie		Are you saying our boy isn't smart?
mattie fae		Yes, that's what I'm saying.
charlie		Hell, yes, I'm sweating, it's ninety degrees in here.
mattie fae		Feel my back.
charlie		I don't want to feel your back.
mattie fae		Sweat is just dripping down my back.
charlie		I believe you.
mattie fae		Feel it.
charlie		No.
mattie fae		Come on, put your hand here --
charlie		Goddamn it --
mattie fae		Sweat's just dripping...
ivy		Been a couple of years now. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   18. 16    CONTINUED:                                                   16
mattie fae		Is it that long since we've been here?
charlie		Do you know its purpose? You can't tell if it's night or day.
ivy		I think that's the purpose.
charlie		Don't do that. This isn't your place.
mattie fae		The body needs sunlight.
violet		They checked the hospitals, no Beverly.
mattie fae		Who's this now? The highway patrol?                    *
violet		No, the sheriff, the Gilbeau boy.
ivy		What else did he say?
violet		The boat's missing.
ivy		Dad's boat?
violet		I asked the sheriff to send a deputy out to the dock to check if anybody had seen him and his boat is gone.
jean		I'm gonna grab a smoke.
barbara		You've encouraged that.
bill		I haven't encouraged anything.
barbara		You admire her for getting hooked at fourteen, makes her seem even more mature.
bill		Suppose your mom's turned on the air conditioner?
barbara		You kidding? Remember the parakeets?
bill		The parakeets?
barbara		I didn't tell you about the parakeets? She got a parakeet for some insane reason, and the little fucker croaked after two days. So she went to the pet store and raised hell and they gave her another parakeet. That one died after one day.  So she went back and they gave her a third parakeet and that one died too. So the chick from the pet store came out here to see just what in the hell this serial parakeet killer was doing to bump off these birds.
bill		And?
barbara		The heat. It was too hot. They were dying from the heat.
bill		Jesus.
barbara		These are tropical birds, all right? They live in the fucking tropics.
bill		Are you ready for this?
barbara		No.    No way.
charlie		Violet's a Clapton fan?
mattie fae		Goddam it, she's not a waitress. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   22. 20   CONTINUED:                                                   20
charlie		I know that.
mattie fae		Then get your own beer.
johnna		 I'll get it.
mattie fae		I don't believe you. Watchin' a ball game, drinkin' beers. You have any sense of what's going on around you?
charlie		Am I supposed to sit here like a statue? You're drinking whiskey.
mattie fae		I'm having a cocktail.
charlie		You're drinking straight whiskey!
mattie fae		Just... show a little class.
barbara		...Mom?
bill		Hi, Charlie.
mattie fae		Oh my gosh, will you look at this one? Come here and give your Aunt Mattie Fae some sugar! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   23. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20
barbara		Hi, Uncle Charlie.
charlie		How was the flight from Denver?
bill		Fine...
violet		Barb...
barbara		It's okay, Mom. I'm here, I'm here. Shh, it's okay, I'm here.
bill		No word then?
barbara		Did you see Bill and Jean?
violet		Yes.   Hi, Bill.
bill		Hello, Violet.
violet		I'm just so scared.
mattie fae		Of course you are, poor thing. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   24. 20   CONTINUED:                                                   20
violet		 Well, look at you.
mattie fae		Isn't she the limit? Look at her boobs!
jean		O-kay, we've all stared at my tits now.
mattie fae		They're just so darn big.
violet		You're just the prettiest thing. Thank you for coming to see me.
barbara		Ivy, I didn't see you up there.
ivy		It looked crowded.
barbara		God, you look good.   Doesn't she look good, Bill?
violet		She had it straightened. Barbara, or Bill, it doesn't matter, I need you to go through Beverly's things, help me with this paperwork.
barbara		Well... we can do that, Mom.
ivy		I was going to help with --
violet		No, now that desk of his is such a mess and I get confused -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    25. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20
bill		I'll take care of it, Violet --
barbara		 Which room are you in?
mattie fae		We're gonna head home soon.
violet		You're going back to Tulsa?
mattie fae		We have to, we left in such a rush we didn't get anyone to take care of the damn dogs. Anyway, I know you want to spend some time with these girls.
violet		How about Little Charles, can't he take care of the dogs?
charlie		Well, yeah, I guess he could --
mattie fae		We talked about this.
barbara		Mom, can Jean stay in the attic?
violet		No, that's where what's-her-name lives.
ivy		Johnna.
barbara		Who's Johnna?
violet		She's the Indian who lives in my attic.
barbara		She's the what?
jean		Hi...
johnna		Hello.
jean		I like your necklace.
jean		Did you make that?
johnna		My grandma.
jean		Is there something in it?
johnna		My umbilical cord.
jean		Ewww, are you serious?
johnna		When a Cheyenne is born, their umbilical cord is dried and sewn into a pouch. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    27. 21   CONTINUED:                                                    21
jean		You're Cheyenne. Like that movie Powwow Highway. Did you see that?
bill		This was when?
violet		Saturday morning. The Indian girl made us biscuits and gravy. We ate some, he walked out the door, this door right there. Got into his truck. And that was it.
barbara		He just left...?
violet		I went to bed Saturday night, got up Sunday... still no Beverly. I didn't make much of it, thought he'd gone out on a bender.
barbara		Why would he do that? Not like he couldn't drink at home. Unless you were riding his ass.
violet		I never said anything to him about his drinking, never got on him about it. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   28. 22   CONTINUED:                                                      22
barbara		Really.
viloet		Barbara, I swear. He could drink himself into obliv-uh, obliv-en-um...
barbara		Oblivion.
bill		So Sunday, still no sign of him...
violet		Yes, Sunday. No sign. I started getting worried, don'tcha know. That's when I got worked up about that safety deposit box.   We kept an awful lot of cash in that box, some expensive jewelry. I had a diamond ring in that box appraised at seven thousand dollars --
barbara		Wait, wait, wait, I'm missing something. Why do you care about a safety deposit box?
violet		Well, I know what you'll say about this, but, your father and I had an urge-ment... arrangement. If something were to ever happen to one of us, the other one would go empty that box.
barbara		Because...
bill		The money and jewelry gets rolled into the estate, bank seals the box until probate is settled. Can take months.
violet		Right, that's right --
barbara		You're such a fucking cynic. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   29. 22   CONTINUED:                                                   22
violet		I knew you would disapprove --
barbara		Okay, what about the safety deposit box?
violet		I had to wait for the bank to open on Monday. And after I emptied that box, I called the police and reported him missing. Monday morning.
barbara		And you only had Ivy call me today?
violet		I didn't want to worry you, honey --
bill		Yes.
violet		No. And we fought enough... you know... but no, he just left.
barbara		Maybe he needed some time away from you.
violet		That's nice of you to say.
barbara		Good old unfathomable Dad.
violet		Oh. That man. What I first fell of with -- fell in love with, you know, was his mystery. I thought it was sexy as hell.  You knew he was the smartest one in the room, knew if he just said something... knock you out. But he'd just stand there, little smile on his face... not say a word. Sexy.
bill		You can't think of anything unusual --
violet		He hired this woman. He didn't ask me, just hired this woman to come live in our house. Few days before he left.
barbara		You don't want her here.
violet		She's a stranger in my house. There's an Indian in my house.
bill		You have a problem with Indians, Violet?
violet		I don't know what to say to an Indian.
barbara		They're called Native Americans now, Mom.
violet		Who makes that decision?
barbara		It's what they like to be called. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   31. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
violet		They aren't any more native than me.
barbara		In fact, they are.
violet		What's wrong with Indian?
barbara		Why's it so hard to call people --
violet		Let's just call the dinosaurs "Native Americans" while we're at it.
barbara		She may be an Indian, but she makes the best goddamn apple pie I ever ate.
violet		He hired a cook. It doesn't make any sense. We don't eat.
barbara		And now you get biscuits and gravy. Kind of nice, huh?
violet		Nice for you, now. But you'll be gone soon enough, never to return.
barbara		 Mom...
violet		When was the last time you were here?
barbara		I'm very dutiful, Mom, I call, I write, I send presents --
violet		You do not write -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   32. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
barbara		Presents on birthdays, Mother's Day --
violet		Because you're "dutiful."
bill		All right, now --
violet		I don't care about you two. I'd like to see my granddaughter every now --
barbara		Well, you're seeing her now.
violet		But your father. You broke his heart when you moved away.
barbara		That is wildly unfair.
violet		I'm sure you'd prefer to think that Santy Claus brought you presents at Christmas, too. If you'd had more than one child, you'd know a parent always has favorites. Mattie Fae was my mother's favorite. Big deal. I got used to it. You were your Daddy's favorite. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   33. 23   CONTINUED:                                                   23
barbara		What was I supposed to do?! Colorado gave Bill twice the money he was making at TU --
bill		Why are we even getting into this?
barbara		You think Daddy wouldn't have jumped at the chance Bill got?
violet		You're wrong there. You never would've gotten Beverly Weston out of Oklahoma.
barbara		Daddy gave me his blessing.
violet		`S what he told you.
barbara		Now you're going to tell me the true story, some terrible shit Daddy said behind my back?
bill		Hey, enough. Everybody's on edge --
violet		Beverly didn't say terrible things behind your back --
bill		Vi, come on --
violet		He just told me he's disappointed in you because you settled. He thought                  * you had talent, as a writer.                         *
barbara		Daddy never said anything like that to you. What a load of absolute horseshit. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   34. 23   CONTINUED:                                                      23
violet		Oh, horseshit, horseshit, let's all say horseshit. Say horseshit, Bill.
bill		Horseshit.
barbara		Are you high?
violet		Excuse me.
barbara		I mean literally. You taking something?
violet		A muscle relaxer.
barbara		Listen to me: I will not go through this with you again.
violet		I don't know what you're talking about.
barbara		These fucking pills? Calls at three                     * AM about people in your backyard?
violet		Stop yelling at me!
barbara		The police, all the rest of it?
violet		It's not the same thing. I didn't have a reason.
barbara		So now it's okay to get hooked because you have a reason. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   35. 24   CONTINUED:                                                    24
violet		I'm not hooked on anything.
barbara		I don't want to know if you are or not, I'm just saying I won't go --
violet		I'm not.   I'm in pain.
barbara		Because of your mouth.
violet		Yes, because my mouth burns from the chemotheeeahh --
barbara		Are you in a lot of pain?
violet		Yes, I'm in pain. I have got... gotten cancer. In my mouth. And it burns like a... bullshit. And Beverly's disappeared and you're yelling at me.
barbara		I'm not yelling at you.
violet		You couldn't come home when I got cancer but as soon as Beverly disappeared you rushed back --
barbara		I'm sorry... you're right. I'm sorry.
jean		Hi, again... Am I bugging you?
johnna		No, do you need something?
jean		No, I thought maybe you'd like to smoke a bowl with me?
johnna		No, thank you.
jean		Okay. I didn't know.  Do you mind if I smoke a bowl?
johnna		I.   No, I --
jean		Mom and Dad don't mind. You won't get into trouble or anything.
johnna		Okay.
jean		Okay. You sure?
johnna		I don't think so.
jean		I just mean they don't mind that I smoke pot. Mom kind of does. I think cause Dad smokes pot too, and she wishes he didn't.  You sure?
johnna		Yes.   No.    I'm fine.
jean		Wow, are those your parents?
johnna		Mm-hm, their wedding picture.
jean		Their costumes are fantastic.    Are they still together?
johnna		My father passed away last year.
jean		Oh.    Sorry.
johnna		That's okay. Thank you.
jean		Were you close?
johnna		Yes.   Very.
jean		My Mom and Dad are separated now.
johnna		I'm sorry. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   38. 26    CONTINUED:                                                      26
jean		He's fucking one of his grad students. I don't care --aside from the pathetic English and Humanities cliche, like all those departmental dicks fucking their students -- he can fuck who he wants and that's who teachers meet, students. He was just a turd the way he didn't give Mom a chance to respond or anything. What sucks now is she's on my ass cause she's afraid I'll have some post-divorce freak-out and become some heroin addict or shoot everybody at school. Or God forbid, lose my virginity. I don't know what it is about Dad splitting that put Mom on hymen patrol.  Don't say anything about Mom and Dad; okay? They want to play it low key.
bill		Ivy leave?
barbara		 I'd forgotten about the lightning bugs.
bill		Look what I found...
barbara		We have copies.
bill		I don't remember a hardback edition. Think this is worth something... first edition, hardback, mint condition? Academy Fellowship, Wallace Stevens Award? This book was a big deal.
barbara		It wasn't that big a deal.
bill		In those circles, it was.
barbara		Those are small circles.
bill		"Dedicated to my Violet." That's nice. Christ, probably every word he wrote after this he had to be thinking, "What are they going to say, are they going to compare it to Meadowlark?"
barbara		Jean go to bed?
bill		Just turned out the light. You'd think at some point, you just write something anyway and who cares what they say about it. I don't know --
barbara		Will you shut up about that fucking book?! You are just dripping with envy over these thirty poems my father wrote back in the late sixties, for God's sake. Y'hear yourself?
bill		I have great admiration for these poems -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   40. 27   CONTINUED:                                                   27
barbara		My father didn't write anymore for a lot of reasons, but critical opinion was not one of them, hard as that may be for you to believe.
bill		What are you attacking me for?   I haven't done anything.
barbara		I'm sure that's what you tell Sissy, too, so she can comfort you, reassure you, "No, Billy, you haven't done anything."
bill		Why are you bringing that up?
barbara		They're all symptoms of your male menopause, whether it's you struggling with the "creative question," or screwing a girl who still wears a retainer.
bill		All right, look, I'm not going to be held hostage here while you attack me. And her name is Cindy.
barbara		I know her stupid name -- do me the courtesy of recognizing when I'm demeaning you.
bill		Violet really has a way of putting you in attack mode, you know that? You feel such rage for her you can't help dishing it --
barbara		Psychoanalyze me right now, I skin you.
bill		You may not agree with my methods, but you know I'm right -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   41. 27   CONTINUED:                                                   27
barbara		"Your methods." Thank you, Doctor, but I actually don't need any help from my mother to feel rage.
bill		You want to argue? Is that what you need to do? Pick a subject, alright, let me know what it is, so I have a fighting --
barbara		The subject is me! I am the subject, you narcissistic motherfucker! I am in pain! I need help!
bill		I've copped to being a narcissist. We're the products of a narcissistic generation.
barbara		You can't do it, can you? You can't talk about me for two seconds --
bill		You called me a narcissist!
barbara		You do understand that it hurts, to go from sharing a bed with you for twenty-three years to sleeping by myself.
bill		I'm here, now. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   42. 29   CONTINUED:                                                      29
barbara		Oh, men always say shit like that, as if the past and the future don't exist.
bill		I'm not necessarily keen on the notion of saying things that would hurt you.
barbara		Like what?
bill		We have enough on our hands with your parents right now, let's not revisit this.
barbara		When did we visit this to begin with? I still don't know what happened. Do I bore you, intimidate you, disgust you? Is this just about the pleasures of young flesh, teenage pussy? I really need to know.
bill		You need to know now? With Beverly missing, and your mother crazy as a loon? You want to do this now?
barbara		You're right. I'll just hunker down for a cozy night's sleep upstairs. Next to my husband.
bill		This discussion deserves our   care. And patience. We'll both be    in a better frame of mind to talk   about this once your father's come   home.
barbara		Mom?
violet		Did you call them?    I dig in call them.
barbara		Mom.    The sheriff is here.
violet		Inna esther?
barbara		What?
violet		Inna esther broke. `N pays me `em...sturck...struck.
bill		Come on.   Leave her there.
bill		What happened?
sheriff		Couple old boys running jug lines in the lake hooked him. Pulled him up.
bill		He drowned. That's how he died, from drowning?
sheriff		Looks it.     Yes, sir.
bill		Is there any way to determine if he... I mean is this an accident, or suicide --?
sheriff		There's really no way to tell.
bill		What's your guess?
sheriff		...Suicide.
bill		How does a a person jump in the water... and choose not to swim?
jean		What about Aunt Ivy?
barbara		I guess we'll stop on the way. Christ, I need to call Karen, too. Why the fuck am I brushing my hair?
violet		Izza story. Barely's back.    Did sum Beer-ley come home?
sheriff		Ma'am?
violet		Gizza cig... some cigezze?    Cig-zezz, cig-zizz... cig-uhzzz...
barbara		 Right here, Mom...
violet		Mm, good beat, right?   Idn't it's a good beat?  Mmmm, I been on the music... pell man onna sheriff. Armen in tandel s'lossle, s'lost? Lost?! From the day, the days. Am Beerly... and Beverly lost?
jean		What man? The Sheriff?
barbara		In high school. He was my prom date.
jean		You're kidding.
barbara		Day of the prom, his father got drunk and stole his car, stole his own son's car, went somewhere, Mexico. Deon showed up at the door. He'd been crying. Confessed he didn't have a way to take me to the prom. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   48. 42   CONTINUED:                                                   42
bill		Let me go first, see what they need.
barbara		Listen to me: die after me, all right? I don't care what else you do, where you go, how you screw up your life, just... survive. Outlive me, please.
barbara		Holy shit, that's Karen.
jean		Kind of...
karen		I mean I'd kiss my pillow, and then I'd tell him I'd been to the doctor that day and I'd found out I was pregnant. I know how pathetic that sounds, but it was innocent enough. Then real life takes over, cause it always does --
barbara		-- uh-huh --
karen		Things don't work out like you planned. That pillow was a better husband than any real man I'd ever met; this parade of men fails to live up to your expectations, all of them so much less than Daddy or Bill. You punish yourself, tell yourself it's your fault you can't find a good one. I don't know how well you remember Andrew...
barbara		No, I remember. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   51. 49   CONTINUED:                                                   49
karen		I loved him so intensely, so the things he did wrong were just opportunities for me to make things right. If he cheated on me or called me a cunt, I'd think "No, love is forever, so here's an opportunity to make an adjustment in the way you view the world."
barbara		And Scientology too, right, or something like that --?
karen		Exactly, and finally one day, I threw it all out, I said, "It's me, just me with my music on the stereo, my glass of wine and Bloomers my cat. I don't need anything else, I can live my life with myself." I got my license, threw myself into my work, sold a lot of houses, and that's when I met Steve.
karen		The best thing about him, for me, is that now what I think about is now. I live now. My focus, my life, my world is now. I don't give a care about the past anymore, the mistakes I made, the way I thought. And you can't plan the future cause as soon as you do, something happens, some terrible thing happens --
barbara		Like your father drowning himself.
karen		That's exactly what I mean. You take it as it comes, here and now! Steve had a huge presentation today for some big-wig government guys who could be important for his business, something he's put together for months, and as soon as we heard about Daddy, he cancelled his meeting. He has his priorities straight. And you know what the kicker is?  Do you know what the kicker --?
barbara		What's the kicker?
karen		We're going to Belize on our honeymoon!
barbara		Sorry.   Hot flash.
violet		It won't kill you to try it on -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    53. 51   CONTINUED:                                                      51
mattie fae		Oh, this is a sweet one, Vi --
ivy		I find this a tidge morbid, frankly --
violet		You don't have a style, that's the point.
mattie fae		Where was this taken?
violet		New York.    On the first book tour.
ivy		I don't have your style, I have a style of my own.
violet		You wore a suit to your father's funeral. A woman doesn't wear a suit to a funeral.
ivy		God, you're weird; it's a black suit.
violet		You look like a magician's assistant.
mattie fae		Little Charles has been talking about moving to New York. Can you picture that?
violet		Don't discourage him now --
mattie fae		He wouldn't last a day in that city. They'd tear him apart.
violet		Stop being so sensitive.
mattie fae		He overslept? For his Uncle's funeral? A noon service?
ivy		I'm sure there's more to the story --
mattie fae		Don't make excuses for him. That's what Charlie does. Thirty-seven years old and can't drive? Who can't drive?
ivy		Why are you giving away your clothes?
violet		All this shit's going. I don't plan to spend the rest of my days looking at what used to be. I want that shit in the office gone, I want these clothes I'm never going to wear gone. I mean look at these fucking shoes --  Even if I didn't fall on my face, can you imagine anything less attractive, my swollen ankles and varicose veins? And my toenails, good God: anymore they could dig through cement.
karen		You get a read off Steve?   Did you like him?
barbara		We said two words to each other -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   55. 52   CONTINUED:                                                        52
karen		You get a feel, though, don't you? Did you get a feel?
barbara		He seemed very nice, sweetheart --
karen		He is, and --
barbara		-- but what I think doesn't matter. I'm not marrying him --
karen		I guess what I'm telling you is that I'm happy. I've been unhappy most of my life,   my adult life. I doubt you've been aware of that. I know our lives have led us apart, you, me and Ivy. Maybe we're not as close as, as close as some families --
barbara		Yeah, we really need to talk about Mom, what to do about Mom --
karen		-- but I think I haven't wanted to live my unhappiness in view of my family. But now I'm just really happy. I'd like us to get to know each other a little better.
barbara		Yes.    Yes.
jean		Hurry, okay?
bill		I will, sweetheart.
steve		Is it always this hot?
jean		Usually it's hotter.
steve		Hard to imagine.  How old are you, about, seventeen?
jean		Fourteen.
steve		Fourteen, right... Know what I was doing when I was fourteen? Cattle processing. Know what that is?
jean		It doesn't sound good.
steve		Slaughterhouse sanitation.
jean		That's disgusting.
steve		I don't recommend it. But hey. Put food on the table. Get it?
jean		Dumpster over there?
steve		Nah, that's not what I'm smelling.
jean		What are you doing?
steve		Do I smell what I think I smell?
jean		What do you smell?
steve		What do you think I smell?
jean		I think you smell that dumpster.
steve		Is that... pot? You smoking pot?
jean		No.
steve		You can tell me.
jean		No.
steve		You a little dope smoker?  Then you are in luck. Because I just happen to have some tasty shit. And I am going to hook you up.
jean		That'd be so great. I just smoked my last bowl and I really need to get fucked up.
steve		You what? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      58. 53   CONTINUED:                                                      53
jean		I really need to get fucked up --
steve		You need to get what?
jean		You're bad --
bill		No Pinots, but they had some decent California Merlots.
violet		Look at me.  Look at me.
ivy		You're beautiful, Mom.
violet		I was beautiful. Not anymore.
mattie fae		I beg your pardon? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   59. 54   CONTINUED:                                                   54
violet		Think about the last time you went to the mall and saw some sweet little gal and thought she's a cute trick. What makes her that way? Taut skin, firm boobs, an ass above her knees.
mattie fae		I'm still very sexy, thank you very much.
violet		You're about as sexy as a wet card- board box, Mattie Fae, you and me both. Look, wouldn't we be better off if we stopped lying about these things and told the truth? "Women aren't sexy when they're old." I can live with that. Can you live with that?
mattie fae		What about Sophia Loren? What about Lena Horne? She stayed sexy till she was eighty.
violet		The world is round. Get over it. Now try this dress on.
ivy		I'm sorry, I won't.
violet		You don't know how to attract a man. I do. That's something I always --
ivy		We just buried my father, I'm not trying to attract --!
violet		I'm not talking about today, dummy, this is something you can wear --
ivy		I have a man. All right?   I have a man.
violet		You said you weren't looking for a man -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   60. 54   CONTINUED:                                                      54
ivy		And I'm not. Because I have one. Okay? Now will you leave it alone?
violet		Who is it?
ivy		Nobody.   Forget it --
mattie fae		Tell us, is he someone from school? How old is he, what's he do --?
ivy		I'm not telling you anything so --
mattie fae		You have to tell us something!
ivy		No, I really don't.
violet		Are you in love, Ivy?
ivy		I...I don't...I'm...
steve		No, we maintain the accounts off- shore, just until we get approvals.
bill		To get around approvals? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   61. 55   CONTINUED:                                                       55
steve		To get around approvals until we get approvals. There's a lot of red tape, bureaucracy, I don't know how much you know about Florida, Florida politics --
bill		Only what I read and that's --
steve		Right, right, this kind of business in particular.
bill		...Charlie?
charlie		Picking up Little Charles.
steve		Little Charles?
bill		His son. I'm sorry, what is your                         * business again?
steve		You know, it's essentially security work. The situation in the Middle East is perpetually dangerous, so there's a tremendous amount of money involved.
bill		Security work. You mean... mercenary?
barbara		Give.   Me.     The wine.
barbara		For God's sake, you can get it at any Blockbuster.
jean		They're showing it with the scene in color restored.
steve		Cool.
barbara		Let me make sure I've got this: when you threw a fit about going to the store with your dad... Hey, look at me.  And you were so distraught over the start time of your Grandpa's funeral. Was this your concern? Getting back here in time to watch Phantom of the Fucking Opera?
jean		I guess.
steve		Phantom of the Opera, huh?
jean		Huh-uh.
karen		Hi, doodle.
steve		 Hey, baby. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   63. 56   CONTINUED:                                                   56
karen		 Hi, doodle!
steve		Hook you up, later.
little charles		I'm sorry, Dad.
charlie		No need to apologize.
little charles		I know Mom's mad at me.
charlie		Don't worry about her.
little charles		What did she say?
charlie		Your mother, she says what she says.
little charles		I set the alarm. I did.
charlie		I know you did. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   64. 57   CONTINUED:                                                      57
little charles		I loved Uncle Bev, you know that.
charlie		Stop apologizing.
little charles		The power must've gone out. I woke up and the clock was blinking noon. That means the power went out, right?
charlie		It's okay.
little charles		I missed his funeral!
charlie		It's a ceremony. It's ceremonial. It doesn't mean anything compared to what you have in your heart.  Hold on, comb your hair.
little charles		Uncle Bev must be disappointed in me.
charlie		Your Uncle Bev has got bigger and better things ahead of him. He doesn't have time for spite. He wasn't that kind of man anyway --
little charles		Just... I know how things are. I know how they feel about me and something like this... you want to be there for people, and I missed Uncle Bev's funeral, and I know how they feel about me --
charlie		How who feels about you?    Feels what about you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   65. 57   CONTINUED:                                                   57
little charles		All of them. I know what they say.
charlie		They don't say things about you --
little charles		I see how they are. I don't blame them. I'm sorry I let you down, Dad.
charlie		You haven't let me down. You never let me down. Now listen...you're wrong about these people, they love you. Some of them haven't gotten a chance to see what I see: a fine man, very loving, with a lot to offer. Now take this...  Give me my comb. Stand up straight, look folks in the eye. Stop being so hard on yourself.
little charles		I love you, Dad.
charlie		Love you too, son.
barbara		Phantom of the Opera --
bill		You don't remember what it was like to be fourteen?
barbara		She's old enough to exhibit a little character. But that's something you normally learn from your parents.
bill		That's a shot across my bow, right? I missed something. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   66. 58   CONTINUED:                                                      58
barbara		Really? Instilling character: our burden as parents.
bill		I got that part.
barbara		And you really haven't been much of a parent lately, so it's tough to --
bill		Just because you and I are struggling with this Gordian knot doesn't mean --
barbara		Nice, "Gordian knot," but her fourteen- year-old self might view it differently, might consider it "abandonment" --
bill		Oh, come on, she's a little more sophisticated than that, don't you think?
barbara		Pretty fucking sophisticated, the restored whatever from Phantom of the Opera, I know that makes your dick hard --
bill		Barbara --
barbara		Precocious little shit.
bill		I'm not defending her. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   67. 59   CONTINUED:                                                   59
barbara		Be a father! Help me!
bill		I am her father, goddamn it!
barbara		Her father in name only!
bill		I have not forsook my responsibilities!
barbara		It's "forsaken," big shot!
bill		Actually, "forsook" is also an acceptable usage --!
barbara		Oh, "forsook" you and the horse you rode in on --
bill		You don't fight fair.
barbara		I've seen where that gets me! I'm sick of the whole notion of the enduring female. GROW UP! Cause while you're going through your fifth puberty, the world is falling apart and your kid can't handle it! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   68. 60   CONTINUED:                                                   60
bill		Our kid is just trying to deal with this goddamn madhouse you've dragged her into.
barbara		This madhouse is my home.
bill		Think about that statement for a second, why don't you?
barbara		Jean is here with me because this is a family event.
bill		Jean's here with you because she's a buffer between you and the shrill insanity of your mother.
barbara		Y'know, you'd have a lot more credibility if you had any credibility.
bill		You can't resist, can you?
barbara		You're a pretty easy mark.
bill		You're so goddamn self-righteous, you know? You're so --
barbara		Surely you must've known when you started porking Pippi Longstocking you were due for a little self- righteousness, just a smidge of indignation on my part --
bill		Maybe I split because of it.
barbara		Is this your confession, then, when you finally unload all? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   69. 60   CONTINUED:                                                    60
bill		You're thoughtful, Barbara, but you're not open. You're passionate, but you're hard. You're a good, decent, funny, wonderful woman, and I love you, but you're a pain in the ass.
violet		August... your month. Locusts are raging, "Summer psalm become summer wrath." `Course it's only August out there. In here... who knows?  All right... okay. "The Carriage held but just Ourselves," dum-de-dum...mm, best I got... Emily Dickenson's all I got... something something, "Horse's Heads Were Toward Eternity..."
karen		This is lovely! You do all this?
bill		Turn that off, it's time to eat.
jean		Don't suppose I could eat in here?
bill		You suppose right.
ivy		Did I hear Little Charles?
charlie		He went back out to the car.
little charles		Mom's casserole.
ivy		They said you overslept.
little charles		Maybe I purposely accidentally overslept. I don't know. I'm sorry.
ivy		Please. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   71. 63   CONTINUED:                                                   63
little charles		I know you had one of the worst days of your life and I'm sorry if I --
ivy		We don't have to do that with each other.
little charles		You're breaking our rule.
ivy		They're on to me. Not us, just me. I told them I was seeing someone. I didn't tell them who. I just wanted you to know, in case it came up.  Charles...
little charles		I adore you.
charlie		Pass the casserole, please?
mattie fae		My casserole's coming.
charlie		I'll eat some of yours, too --
barbara		 Mom?! Let's eat!
mattie fae		There he is. I wanted to put you at a kid's table but they wouldn't let me.
little charles		Where do you want this? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      72. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
mattie fae		You goddamn clumsy goofball!
ivy		It's just an accident.
mattie fae		That's my casserole!
charlie		Jean, you didn't get any chicken.
mattie fae		Just put it on his plate for him or he's liable to burn the house down. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   73. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
charlie		All right, Mattie Fae.
barbara		Mom...!
violet		Barb... will you put this?
barbara		Yeah, sure.
violet		I see you gentlemen have stripped down to your shirt fronts. I thought we were having a funeral dinner, not a cockfight.
barbara		Uncle Charlie should say it. He's the patriarch around here now.
charlie		I am?   Oh, I guess I am.
violet		By default.
charlie		Okay.  Dear Lord...
steve		I have to take this.
charlie		We ask that you watch over Beverly, too, as he, as he... as he... makes his journey. We thank thee, O Lord, that we are able to join together to pay tribute to this fine man, in his house, with his beautiful daughters. We are truly blessed in our, our fellowship, our togetherness, our... our fellowship. Thank thee for the food, O Lord, that we can share this food and replenish our bodies with... nutrients. We ask that you help us... get better. Be better people.
steve		Amen.   Sorry folks.
bill		Let's eat.
violet		Barb, have any use for that sideboard?
barbara		Hm?
violet		That sideboard there, you have any interest in that? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   75. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
barbara		This?   Well... no.   I mean, why?
violet		I'm getting rid of a lot of this stuff and I thought you might want that sideboard.
barbara		No, Mom, I... I wouldn't have any way to get that home to Colorado.
karen		Really pretty.
violet		Mm.   Maybe Ivy'll take it.
ivy		I have something like that, remember --
violet		Clearing all this out of here. I want to have a brand new everything.
barbara		I. I guess I'm just sort of... not prepared to talk about your stuff.
violet		Suit yourself.
steve		This food is just spectacular.
ivy		You like your food, Mom?
violet		I haven't tried much of it, yet --
barbara		Johnna cooked this whole meal by herself.
violet		`S what she's paid for.
charlie		Jean, so I'm curious, when you say you don't eat meat, you mean you don't eat meat of any kind?
jean		Right.
charlie		And is that for health reasons, or...?
jean		When you eat meat, you ingest an animal's fear.
violet		Ingest what? It's fur?
jean		Fear.
violet		I thought she said --
charlie		How do you do that? You can't eat fear.
jean		Sure you can. What happens to you, when you feel afraid? Doesn't your body produce all sorts of chemical reactions?
charlie		Does it?
little charles		Adrenaline, and, and --
jean		Your body goes through a whole chemical process when it experiences fear. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   77. 64   CONTINUED:                                                   64
little charles		-- yep, and cortisol --
jean		Don't you think an animal experiences fear?
steve		You bet it does. I used to work in a cattle processing plant, lot of fear flying around that place.
jean		So when you eat an animal, you're eating all that fear it felt when it was slaughtered to make food.
charlie		Wow. You mean I've been eating fear, what, three times a day for sixty years?
mattie fae		This one won't have a meal `less there's meat in it.
charlie		I guess it's the way I was raised, but it just doesn't seem like a legitimate meal `less it has some meat somewhere --
mattie fae		If I make a pasta dish of some kind, he'll be like, "Okay, that's good for an appetizer, now where's the meat?"
violet		"Where's the meat?" Isn't that some TV commercial, the old lady says, "Where's the meat?"
karen		"Beef," "Where's the beef?"
violet		 "Where's the meat?!" "Where's the meat?!" "Where's the meat?!"
barbara		That's pleasant. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    78. 64   CONTINUED:                                                       64
charlie		I thought the services were lovely.
violet		Ehhhhh! I give it a...  Ehhhhh!
barbara		Yeah, I can't imagine why no one told that story.
steve		I don't know much about poetry, but I thought his poems were extraordinary.  And your reading was very fine.
bill		Thank you.
violet		 Who are you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   79. 64   CONTINUED:                                                   64
karen		Mom, this is my fiance, Steve, I introduced you at the church.
steve		Steve Heidebrecht.
violet		Hide-the-what?
steve		Heidebrecht.
violet		Hide-a-burrr...German, you're a German.
steve		Well, German-Irish, really, I --
violet		That's peculiar, Karen, to bring a date to your father's funeral. I know the poetry was good, but I wouldn't have really considered it date material --
barbara		Jesus.
karen		He's not a date, he's my fiance. We're getting married on New Years. In Miami, I hope you can make it.
violet		I don't really see that happening, do you? Steve. That right? Steve?
steve		Yes, ma'am.
violet		You ever been married before?
karen		That's personal.
steve		I don't mind. Yes, ma'am, I have.
violet		More'n once? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    80. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
steve		Three times, actually, three times before this --
violet		You should pretty much have it down by now, then.
steve		 Right, right --
violet		I had that one pegged. I mean, look at him, you can tell he's been married.
karen		I took Steve out to show him the old fort and it's gone!
bill		What is this now?
karen		Our old fort, where we used to play Cowboys and Indians.
ivy		Daddy said rats were getting in there.
violet		Karen! Shame on you! Don't you know not to say Cowboys and Indians? You played Cowboys and Native Americans, right Barb?
barbara		What did you take?   What pills?
violet		Lemme alone --
charlie		Uh-oh! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   81. 64   CONTINUED:                                                     64
mattie fae		What is it?
charlie		UH-OH!
mattie fae		What's the matter?
charlie		I got a big bite of fear! I'm shakin' in my boots! Fear never tasted so good.
steve		Right, right, it's pretty good once you get used to the taste.
barbara		I catch her eating a cheeseburger every now and again.
jean		I do not!
barbara		Double cheeseburger, bacon, extra fear.
jean		Mom, you are such a liar!
violet		Y'know...if I ever called my mom a liar? She would've knocked my goddamn head off my shoulders.
barbara		Mom... "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   82. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
violet		We took care of it some time back.
barbara		Mom, we don't want to talk about this.
violet		I want to talk about it. What about what I want to talk about, that count for anything?  Bev made some good investments, believe it or not, and we had money for you girls in his will, but we talked it over after some years passed and decided to change things, leave everything to me. We never got around to taking care of it legally, but you should know he meant to leave the money to me.
barbara		Okay.
violet		Okay?  Okay?
ivy		Okay.
violet		Karen?   Okay?
barbara		Okay.
karen		Okay.
violet		Okay. But now some of this furniture, some of this old shit you can just have. I don't want it, got no use for it. Maybe I should have an auction.
mattie fae		Sure, an auction's a fine idea -- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   83. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
violet		Some things, though, like the silver, that's worth a pretty penny. But if you like I'll sell it to you, cheaper'n I might get in an auction.
barbara		Or you might never get around to the auction and then we can just have it for free after you die.
ivy		Barbara...
violet		You might at that.
little charles		Excuse me, Bill? I'm wondering, the reading you did, those poems --?
violet		Where are you living now, Bill? You want this old sideboard?
bill		I beg your pardon.
violet		You and Barbara are separated, right? Or you divorced already?
bill		...We're separated.
violet		 Thought you could slip that one by me, didn't you?
barbara		What is the matter with you?
violet		Nobody slips anything by me. I know what's what. Your father thought he's slipping one by me, right? No way. I'm sorry you two're having trouble, maybe you can work it out. Bev'n I separated a few times, course we didn't call it that. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   84. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
barbara		Help us to benefit from an illustration of your storybook marriage.
violet		Truth is, you can't compete with a younger woman. One of those unfair things in life. Is there a younger woman involved?
barbara		You've said enough on this topic, I think.
bill		Yes.   There's a younger woman.
violet		Y'see?   Odds're against you there, babe.
ivy		Mom believes women don't grow more attractive with age.
karen		Oh, I disagree, I --
violet		I didn't say they "don't grow more attractive," I said they get ugly. And it's not really a matter of opinion, Karen dear. You've only just started to prove it yourself.
charlie		You're in rare form today, Vi.
violet		The day calls for it, doesn't it? What form would you have me in?
charlie		I just don't understand why you're so adversarial.
violet		I'm just truth-telling.  Some people get antagonized by the truth. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   85. 64   CONTINUED:                                                    64
charlie		Everyone here loves you, dear.
violet		You think you can shame me, Charlie? Blow it out your ass.
barbara		Three days ago... I had to identify my father's corpse. Now I'm supposed to sit here and listen to you viciously attack each and every member of this family --
violet		Attack my family?! You ever been attacked in your sweet spoiled life?! Tell her `bout attacks, Mattie Fae, tell her what an attack looks like!
mattie fae		Honey --
violet		 This woman came to my rescue when one of my dear mother's many gentlemen friends was attacking me, with a claw hammer! You think you been attacked?! What do you know about life on these Plains? What do you know about hard times?
barbara		I know you had a rotten childhood, Mom. Who didn't?
violet		You DON'T know! You do NOT know! None of you know, `cept this woman right here and that man we buried today!  Sweet girl, sweet Barbara, my heart breaks for every time you ever felt pain. I wish I coulda shielded you from it. But if you think for a solitary second you can fathom the pain that man endured in his natural life, you got another think coming.                   * Do you know where your father lived from age four till about ten? Do you?
barbara		No.
ivy		No.
violet		In a Pontiac Sedan. With his mother, his father, in a fucking car! Now what do you want to say about your rotten childhood? That's the crux of the biscuit: we lived too hard, then rose too high. We sacrificed everything and we did it all for you. Your father and I were the first in our families to finish high school and he wound up an award-winning poet. You girls, given a college education, taken for granted no doubt, and where'd you wind up?  Who're you? Jesus, you worked as hard as us, you'd all be President. You never had real problems so you got to make all your problems yourselves.
barbara		Why are you screaming at us?
violet		Just time we had some truth's told `round here. Damn fine day, tell the truth. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   87. 64   CONTINUED:                                                      64
charlie		Well, the truth is... I'm getting full.
steve		Amen.
johnna		There's dessert, too.
karen		I saw her making those pies. They looked so good.
little charles		I have a truth to tell.
violet		It speaks.
ivy		 No, no --
charlie		What is it, son?
little charles		I have a truth.
mattie fae		Little Charles...?
little charles		I...
ivy		Charles, not like this, please...
little charles		The truth is...I forgot to set the clock. The power didn't go out, I just...forgot to set the clock. Sorry, Mom. I'm sorry, everyone. Excuse me...I...I.
violet		Scintillating.
mattie fae		 I gave up a long time ago... Little Charles is your project.
ivy		 Charles. His name is Charles.
violet		Poor Ivy.     Poor thing.
ivy		Please, Mom...
violet		Poor baby.
ivy		Please...
violet		She always had a feeling for the underdog.
ivy		Don't be mean to me right now, okay?
violet		Everyone's got this idea I'm mean all of a sudden.
ivy		Please, momma.
violet		I told you, I'm just telling the --
barbara		You're a drug addict.
violet		That is the truth! That's what I'm getting at! I, everybody listen... I am a drug addict. I am addicted to drugs, pills, specially downers.
barbara		Gimme those goddamn pills --
violet		I'll eat you alive, girl!
violet		Goddamn you... goddamn you, Barb...
barbara		Shut up!  You remember how to do this, right?
ivy		Yeah... "August" 10/23/12 BLUE Draft   90. 65   CONTINUED:                                                     65
barbara		Go through everything. Every closet, every drawer, every shoebox.
charlie		What should we do?
barbara		Get Mom some black coffee, a wet towel and listen to her bullshit. Karen, call Dr. Burke.
violet		You can't do this! This is my house! This is my house!
barbara		You don't get it, do you?
ivy		That's all we could find.                              *
*		"August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   91. 66    CONTINUED:                                                       66
barbara		You knew this was going on again?
karen		Now what?
ivy		Won't do any good, he's part of the same generation.
barbara		"Greatest Generation," my ass. What                 * makes them so great? Because they                   * were poor and hated Nazis? Who doesn't fucking hate Nazis? Remember                * when we checked her in the psych ward, that stunt she pulled?
karen		I wasn't there.
barbara		She smuggled Darvocet into the psych ward ...in her vagina. There's your Greatest Generation for you. She made this speech to us while she was clenching a bottle of pills in her cooch, for God's sake.
karen		God, I've never heard this story. "August" 11/11/12 Yellow Pages 93. A70   CONTINUED:                                                  A70
ivy		Did you just say "cooch"?
barbara		The phrase "Mom's pussy" seems gauche.
ivy		You're a little more comfortable with "cooch," are you?
barbara		What word should I use to describe our mother's vagina?
ivy		I don't know, but --
barbara		"Mom's beaver"? "Mother's box"?
karen		One thing about Mom and Dad. You have to tip your cap to anyone who can stay married that long.
ivy		Karen.   He killed himself.
barbara		Is there something going on between you and Little Charles?
ivy		I don't know that I'm comfortable talking about that. "August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   93A. A70   CONTINUED:                                                  A70
barbara		Because you know he's our first cousin.
ivy		Give me a break.
karen		You know you shouldn't consider children.
ivy		I can't anyway, I had a hysterectomy last year.
ivy		Cervical cancer.
karen		I didn't know.
barbara		Neither did I.
ivy		I didn't tell anyone except Charles. That's where it started between us.
barbara		Why not?
ivy		And hear it from Mom the rest of my life? She doesn't need another excuse to treat me like some damaged thing.
barbara		You might have told us.
ivy		You didn't tell us about you and Bill.
barbara		That's different.
ivy		Why?   Because it's you, and not me?
barbara		Because divorce is an embarrassing public admission of defeat. Cancer's fucking cancer, you can't help that. We're your sisters.
ivy		I can't perpetuate these myths of family or sisterhood anymore. We're just people, some of us accidentally connected by genetics, a random selection of cells.                                  *
barbara		When did you get so cynical?
ivy		That's funny, coming from you.
barbara		Bitter, sure, but "random selection of cells?"
ivy		Maybe my cynicism came with the realization that the responsibility of               * caring for our parents was mine alone.
barbara		Don't give me that. I participated --
ivy		Till you had enough and got out, you and Karen both. I'm not criticizing. Do what you want. You did, Karen did.
barbara		And if you didn't, that's not my fault.
ivy		That's right, so don't lay this sister thing on me, all right? When I leave                 * here I won't feel any more guilty than               * you two did.                                         *
*		"August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   96-97. A70   CONTINUED:                                                    A70
barbara		You're thinking of leaving?
ivy		Charles and I are going to New York.
barbara		What are you going to do in New York?
ivy		We have plans.
barbara		Like what?
ivy		None of your business.
barbara		What about Mom?
ivy		What about her?
barbara		You feel comfortable leaving Mom here?
ivy		Do you?  You're going back to Miami, right?
karen		Yes.
barbara		You need something to eat?   More                        * coffee?
violet		No, honey, I'm fine.  This house must have heard a lot of Weston girl secrets.
karen		I get embarrassed just thinking about it.
violet		Oh... nothing to be embarrassed about. Secret crushes, secret schemes. Province of teenage girls. I can't imagine anything more delicate, or bittersweet. Some part of you girls I always identified with... no matter how old you get, a woman's hard-pressed to throw off that part of herself.  That smells good.
karen		It's apple. You want some?
violet		Yes, please.
barbara		Please don't tell me that's the end of the story.
violet		Oh, no.   That's the end.
karen		You never got the boots? "August" 11/09/12 Pink Draft   101. 72   CONTINUED:                                                      72
violet		No, huh-uh.
barbara		Okay, well, that's the worst story I ever heard. That makes me wish for a heartwarming claw hammer story.
violet		My momma was a nasty-mean old lady.   I suppose that's where I get it from.
karen		You're not nasty-mean. You're our mother and we love you.
violet		Thank you, sweetheart.
barbara		Last time I spoke with my father, we talked about the state of the world, and he said, "You know, this country was always pretty much a whorehouse, but at least it used to have some promise. Now it's just a shithole." I think maybe he was talking about something else, something more specific, personal... this house? This family? His marriage? Himself? There was something sad in his voice-- not sad, he always sounded sad -- hopeless. As if it had already happened. As if whatever was disappearing had already disappeared. And no one saw it go. This country, this experiment, America, this hubris: what a lament, if no one saw it go.
johnna		Mrs. Fordham, are you going to fire me?
barbara		What? No. But I'll understand if you want to quit. I mean, there's work. And then there's work.
johnna		I'm familiar with this job. I can do this job. I don't do it for you or Mrs. Weston. Or even for Mr. Weston. Right? I do it for me.
barbara		Why?
johnna		I need the work.
barbara		Johnna, did my father say anything to you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   103. 76   CONTINUED:                                                   76
johnna		He just seemed like maybe he had... he                * talked about...  He talked a lot about his daughters, his three daughters, and his granddaughter. That was his joy.
barbara		Thank you. That makes me feel better. Knowing that you can lie.
barbara		-- right --
barbara		Mild Cognitive Impairment?
barbara		That would make you comfortable?   You would be comfortable with that?
barbara		You want us to send her to where, a psychiatric hospital?
barbara		Right. Not "gone" so much as "dead," but I see your point.
ivy		Leave me out of this, thanks.
barbara		So you're thinking that if the three of us cooperated with you on a commitment end-around, we'd be less likely to sue your ass?
barbara		"Mild Cognitive Impairment?" Are you fucking kidding me? You really want to go before a judge and make a case for a couple radiation treatments and some chemo causing brain damage? Think you can make that stand up in court? When I'm sitting at the other table, doing this?
barbara		Know whose name is on these bottles?
ivy		Barb...
barbara		We'll hang on to the bucket of these we have at home. For evidence. For your trial.
violet		Pull the car over.
barbara		We'll be home in a few minutes.
violet		Pull the car over.  I'm going to be sick.
barbara		Mom?
barbara		I'm sorry.
violet		Please, honey --
barbara		No, it's important I say this. I lost my temper at dinner and went too far.                    *
violet		Barbara. The day, the funeral... the pills. I was spoiling for a fight and you gave it to me.
barbara		So... truce?
violet		 Truce.
barbara		What now?
violet		How do you mean?
barbara		Don't you think you should at least consider a rehab center?
violet		I can't go through that again. No, I can do this. You got rid of my pills, right?
barbara		All we could find.
violet		I don't have that many hiding places.
barbara		Mom, now, come on.
violet		You wanna search me? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   108. 79   CONTINUED:                                                     79
barbara		Uh... no.
violet		If the pills are gone, I'll be fine. Just need a few days to get my feet under me.
barbara		I can't imagine what all this must be like for you right now. I just want you to know, you're not alone. If you need any help --
violet		I don't need help.
barbara		I want to help.
violet		I don't need your help.
barbara		Mom.
violet		I don't need your help. I've gotten myself through some... I know how this goes: once all the talking's through, people go back to their own nonsense. I know that. So, don't worry about me. I'll manage. I get by.
ivy		Is the coast clear?
little charles		Never very.
ivy		What are you watching? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   109. 80   CONTINUED:                                                        80
little charles		Television.
ivy		Can I watch it with you?
little charles		I wish you would.
ivy		Nope.
little charles		I was trying to be brave.
ivy		I know.
little charles		I just... I want everyone to know that I got what I always wanted. And that means... I'm not a loser.
ivy		Hey.    Hey.
little charles		Come on, help me push the pedal.
mattie fae		Liberace. Get yourself together, we have to get home and take care of those damn dogs. They've probably eaten the drapes by now.
charlie		I'm sure the house is fine.
mattie fae		 Oh, look, honey, Little Charles has got the TV on.
little charles		No, I was just --
mattie fae		This one watches so much television, it's rotted his brain.
ivy		I'm sure that's not true.
mattie fae		What was it I caught you watching the other day?
little charles		I don't remember.
charlie		Mattie Fae --
mattie fae		You do so remember, some dumb talk                    * show about people swapping wives.
little charles		I don't remember.
mattie fae		You don't remember.  Too bad there isn't a job where they pay you to sit around watching TV. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   111. 80   CONTINUED:                                                   80
charlie		C'mon, Mattie Fae --
mattie fae		 Y'know he got fired from a shoe store?
charlie		Mattie Fae, we're gonna get in the car and go home and if you say one more mean thing to that boy I'm going to kick your fat Irish ass onto the highway. You hear me?
mattie fae		What the hell did you say--?
charlie		You kids go outside, would you please?
mattie fae		Maybe that's because your family --
charlie		You had better not say anything about my family right now. I mean it. We buried a man yesterday I loved very much. And whatever faults he may have had, he was a good, kind, decent person. And to hear you tear into your own son not even a day later dishonors Beverly's memory. We've been married thirty-eight years. I wouldn't trade them for anything. But if you can't find a generous place in your heart for your own son, we're not going to make it to thirty-nine.
barbara		I didn't mean to eavesdrop.   I froze.
mattie fae		That's -- you have a cigarette, hon?
barbara		No, I quit years ago.
mattie fae		So did I. Just sounded good to me. I thought at dinner... at that horrible dinner last night, seemed like, something might be going on between Ivy and Little Charles. Do you know if that's true?
barbara		Oh, this is...I'm not sure what to...
mattie fae		Look, just. Is it true?
barbara		Yes.    It's true.
mattie fae		Okay.   That can't happen.
barbara		This is   going to be difficult, uh... Ivy and   Little Charles have always marched   to their own... and I'd expect this to   be toughest on you --
mattie fae		Barb...?
barbara		They're in love. Or they think they are. What's the difference, right?
mattie fae		Honey --
barbara		I know it's unorthodox for cousins to get together, at least these days --
mattie fae		They're not cousins. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   113. 80   CONTINUED:                                                     80
barbara		-- but believe it or not, it's not as uncommon as you might --
mattie fae		Listen to me. They're not cousins.
barbara		Beg pardon?
mattie fae		Little Charles is not your cousin. He's your brother. He's your blood brother. He is not your cousin. He is your blood brother. Half-brother. He's your father's child. Which means that he is Ivy's brother. Do you see? Little Charles and Ivy are brother and sister.
barbara		Go away.
karen		We're just going to --
barbara		Go away!   NOW! GO AWAY!
mattie fae		I do.    And you do.
barbara		Uncle Charlie doesn't suspect?
mattie fae		We've never discussed it.
barbara		What?!
mattie fae		We've never discussed it. Okay? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   114. 80   CONTINUED:                                                      80
barbara		Did Dad know?
mattie fae		Yes.   Y'know, I'm not proud of this.
barbara		Really. You people amaze me. What, were you drunk? Was this just some --
mattie fae		I wasn't drunk, no. Maybe it's hard for you to believe, looking at me, knowing me the way you do, all these years. I know to you, I'm just your old fat Aunt Mattie Fae. I'm more than that, sweetheart, there's more to me than that. I don't know why Little Charles is such a disappointment to me. Maybe he, well, I don't know why. I'm disappointed for him, more than anything. I made a mistake, a long time ago. Okay? I paid for it. But the mistake ends here.
barbara		If Ivy found out, it would destroy her.
mattie fae		I'm sure as hell not gonna tell her. You have to find a way to stop it. You have to put a stop to it.
jean		Who cares? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   115. 81   CONTINUED:                                                    81
steve		Number one by far. Want a shotgun?  You don't know what a shotgun is?
jean		I know what a shotgun is.
steve		Not that kind of shotgun, here. Just put your lips right next to mine and you inhale while I exhale.
jean		Okay.
steve		Hold it.   Don't let it out.
karen		What happened?!
johnna		He was messing with Jean --
karen		Honey, you're bleeding, you okay?
barbara		Jean, what are you doing up?
jean		We were, I don't know --
barbara		Johnna, what's going on?
johnna		He was messing with Jean, so I tuned him up.
barbara		I'll murder you, you prick!
steve		I didn't do anything!
barbara		You know how old that girl is?
steve		 Tell them I didn't do anything!
barbara		She's fourteen years old!
jean		What is the matter with you? Will you please stop freaking out?
bill		Why don't you start at the beginning?
barbara		What are you even doing up?
bill		Please, sweetheart, we need to know what went on here.
jean		Nothing "went on." Can we just not make a federal case out of every thing? I came down for a drink, he came in... end of story. All right? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft    119. 84   CONTINUED:                                                    84
barbara		Just tell me what he did!
jean		He didn't do anything!    What's the                   * big deal?
bill		The big deal, Jean, is that you're fourteen years old.
jean		Which is only a few years younger than you like `em.
barbara		Yeah, I hate you too, you little freak!
bill		What's the matter with you? "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft      120. 84   CONTINUED:                                                      84
karen		I can do without a speech.
barbara		Where is he?
karen		Out at the car. We're leaving. Back to Florida, tonight, now. Me and Steve, together. Want to give me some grief about that?
barbara		Now wait just a goddamn --
karen		You better find out from Jean exactly what went on before you start pointing fingers. Cause I doubt Jean's blameless in all this. And I'm not blaming her, just cause I said she's not blameless doesn't mean I've blamed her. I'm saying she might share in the responsibility. It's not cut and dried, black and white, good and bad. It lives where everything lives: somewhere in the middle. Where the rest of us live, everyone but you.
barbara		Karen--
karen		He's not perfect. Just like the rest of us, down here in the muck. I'm no angel myself. I've done some things I'm not proud of. Things you'll never know about. I may even have to do some things I'm not proud of again. Cause sometimes life puts you in a corner that way.  And I am   a human being, after all. Anyway.    You have your own hash to settle.    Before you start making speeches   to the rest of us.
barbara		Right...
karen		Come January... I'll be in Belize. Doesn't that sound nice?
bill		I'm taking Jean with me, heading back to Colorado in the morning.
barbara		Okay.
bill		I'm sure you'll find a way to blame me for all this.
barbara		Yeah, well...  I can't make it up to Jean right now. She's just going to have to wait until I get back to Boulder.
bill		You and Jean have about forty years left to fight and make up. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   122. 86   CONTINUED:                                                      86
barbara		 Why, what happens in forty years?
bill		You die.
barbara		Oh, right.
bill		I mean --
barbara		No. Right. I fail. As a mother, as a daughter, as a wife. I fail.
bill		No, you don't.
barbara		I've physically attacked Mom and Jean in the span of twenty-four hours. You stick around here and I'll cut off your penis.
bill		That's not funny.
barbara		You're never coming back to me, are you, Bill?
bill		Never say never, but...
barbara		But no.
bill		But no.
barbara		Even if things don't work out with you and Marsha.
bill		Cindy.
barbara		Cindy. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   123. 86   CONTINUED:                                                   86
bill		Right. Even if things don't work out.
barbara		And I'm never really going to understand why, am I?
bill		Probably not.
ivy		Where are Bill and Jean going?
barbara		Yeah...
ivy		Is she clean?
barbara		She's moderately clean. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   124. 87   CONTINUED:                                                     87
ivy		Moderately?
barbara		You don't like moderately?   Then let's say tolerably.
ivy		Is she clean, or not?
barbara		Back off.
ivy		I'm nervous.
barbara		Oh Christ, Ivy, not today.
ivy		I have to tell her, don't I? We're leaving for New York tomorrow.
barbara		That's not a good idea. For you and Charles to take this any further.
ivy		Where is this coming from?
barbara		Lot of fish in the sea. Surely you can rule out the one single man in the world you're related to.
ivy		I love the man I'm related to--
barbara		Fuck love, what a crock of shit. People can convince themselves they love a painted rock.
johnna		Catfish.
barbara		Bottom feeders, my favorite. You're nearly fifty years old, Ivy, you can't go to New York, you'll break a hip. Eat your catfish.
ivy		I have lived in this town, year in and year out, hoping against hope someone would come into my life--
barbara		Don't get all Carson McCullers on me. Now wipe that tragic look off your face and eat some catfish.
violet		What's howdy about it?
barbara		Look, catfish for lunch.   Johnna!  You hungry?
violet		Ivy, you should smile.   Like me.
barbara		Mom needs her lunch, please.
violet		I'm not hungry.
barbara		You haven't eaten anything today. You didn't eat anything yesterday.
violet		I'm not hungry.
barbara		Eat.
violet		No.
barbara		Eat it.    Mom? Eat it.
violet		No.
barbara		Eat it, you fucker.   Eat that catfish.
violet		Go to hell.
barbara		That doesn't cut any fucking ice with me. Now eat that fucking fish.
ivy		Mom, I have something to talk to you--
barbara		No you don't.
ivy		Barbara--
barbara		No you don't. Shut up.    Shut the fuck up.
ivy		Please--
violet		What's to talk about?
ivy		Mom-- "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   127. 88   CONTINUED:                                                      88
barbara		Forget it.     Eat that fucking fish.
violet		I'm not hungry.
barbara		Eat it.
violet		NO!
ivy		Mom, I need to--!
violet		NO!
ivy		MOM!
barbara		EAT THE FISH, BITCH!
ivy		MOM, PLEASE!
violet		Barbara...!
barbara		Okay, fuck it, do what you want.
ivy		I have to tell you something.
barbara		Ivy's a lesbian.
ivy		Barbara--
violet		No, you're not.
ivy		No, I'm not--
barbara		Yes, you are. Did you eat your fish?
ivy		Barbara, stop it! "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   128. 88   CONTINUED:                                                    88
barbara		Eat your fish.
ivy		Barbara!
barbara		Eat your fish.
violet		Barbara, quiet now--
ivy		Mom, please, this is important --
barbara		Eatyourfisheatyourfisheatyourfish--
ivy		I have something to say.
barbara		Are we breaking shit?
ivy		Charles and I --
barbara		You don't want to break shit with me, muthah-fuckah --
ivy		Charles and I --
barbara		Johnna?!   Little spill in here!
ivy		Barbara, stop it!  Mom, Charles and I --
barbara		Little Charles --
ivy		Charles and I --
barbara		Little Charles --
ivy		Barbara --
barbara		You have to say Little Charles or she won't know who you're talking about.
ivy		Little Charles and I...
violet		Little Charles and you are brother and sister. I know that.
barbara		Oh... Mom.
ivy		What?    No, listen, Little Charles --
violet		I've always known that. I told you, no one slips anything by me.
ivy		Mom --
barbara		Don't listen. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft   130. 88   CONTINUED:                                                   88
violet		I knew the whole time Bev and Mattie Fae were carrying on. Charlie should have known too, if he wasn't smoking all that grass.
barbara		It's the pills talking.
violet		Your father tore himself up over it, thirty some-odd years, but Beverly wouldn't have been Beverly if he didn't have plenty to brood about.
ivy		Mom, what are you...?
barbara		Oh honey...
violet		Better you girls know now though, now you're older. Never know when someone might need a kidney.
ivy		Why in God's name did you tell me this?
violet		Hey, what do you care?
ivy		You're monsters.
violet		Come on now --
ivy		Monsters...
violet		Who's the injured party here?
barbara		Ivy, listen --
ivy		Leave me alone.
barbara		When Mattie Fae told me, I didn't know what to do --
barbara		I was trying to protect you --
ivy		We'll go anyway, we'll still go away.
barbara		This is not my fault.
ivy		There's no difference.
violet		We couldn't let Ivy run off with Little Charles. Just wouldn't be right.
barbara		You knew about Daddy and Mattie Fae?
violet		Oh sure. I never told them I knew. But your father knew. He knew I knew. But we never talked about it. I chose the higher ground.  If I'd had the chance, there at the end, I would've told him, "I hope this isn't about Little Charles, cause you know I know all about that." If I'd reached him at that motel, I would've said, "You'd be better off if you quit sulking about this ancient history."
barbara		...what motel?
violet		I called over there on Monday after I got into that safety deposit box. But it was too late, he'd checked out.
barbara		How did you know where he was?
violet		The note. He said I could call him over at the Country Squire Motel --
barbara		He left a note?
violet		And I did, I called him on Monday. "August" 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft       133. 91   CONTINUED:                                                       91
barbara		After you got the money out of your                       * safety deposit box...
violet		We had an arrangement. You have to                        * understand, for people like your                          * father and me, who never had any                          * money, ever, as kids, people from our                     * generation, that money is important.                      *
barbara		Did the note say he was going to kill himself?
violet		If I had my wits about me, I might've done it different. But I was, your father and me both, we were...
barbara		You were both fucked-up... You were                       * fucked-up... You are fucked-up.                           *
violet		You'd better understand this, you smug little ingrate. There's only one reason Beverly killed himself and that's you. Think there's any way he would've done what he did if you were still here? No, just him and me, here in this house, in the dark, left to ourselves, abandoned, wasted lifetimes devoted to your care and comfort.  So stick that knife of judgment in me, go ahead, but make no mistake, his blood is just as much on your hands as it is on mine.
barbara		You're right, Mom.    You're the strong one.
violet		...Barbara?
barbara		No...
violet		Barbara, please.
barbara		I'm nothing like you...
violet		Please, Barbara.
violet		Johnna... Johnna... Johnna...
****Dialogues from script :Austin_Powers_-_International_Man_of_Mystery.txt****

austin		 Alright, luv!  Love it!  Turn...pout for me baby.  Smashing!
austin		Crazy baby.  Give me some shoulder. Yes!  Yes!  Yes!  No.  No.
austin		Get these off to Fab Magazine right away.
supermodel 1		Austin, you've really outdone yourself this time.
austin		Thanks, baby.
supermodel 2		 We could have another photo session back at my flat.
austin		 Oh, behave!
supermodel 3		Austin, I love you!
austin		So many women, so little time.
austin		Judo chop!  Judo chop!
austin		You might want to protest a bit louder next time, luv.
austin		Hello, Mrs. Kensington.
basil exposition		 Hello, Austin.  This is Basil Exposition, Chief of British Intelligence.
austin		We know all that, Exposition.
basil exposition		I just wanted to be extremely clear so that everyone knows what's going on at any given time.  We've just received word that Dr. Evil, the ultimate square, is planning to take over the world.
austin		Dr. Evil?  I thought I put him in jail for good.
basil exposition		I'm afraid not.  Earlier this week, Dr. Evil escaped from Zedel Edel Prison in Baaden Baaden and now he's planning a trap for you tonight at the Electric Psychedelic Pussycat Swinger's Club in Picadilly Circus here in swinging London.
austin		Just where you'd never think to look for him.  We'll be there.
basil exposition		Good luck, Austin.
austin		Thank you.
basil exposition		Oh, and Austin&emdash;
austin		Yes?
basil exposition		 Be careful.
austin		Thank you.  Let's go, baby!
mick jagger		Hey Austin Powers, it's me, Mick Jagger.
austin		Hey, Mick!
mick jagger		Are you more satisfied now sexually, Austin?
austin		Well, you can't always get what you want.
mick jagger		 "You can't always get what you want!" That's a great title for a song! I'm
austin		Good on ya, man.
mick jagger		Groovy!
andy warhol		Austin Powers?  Hi, I'm Andy Warhol.
austin		Hey, how are you?
andy warhol		Hungry.
austin		Here, have this can of Campbell's Tomato Soup.
andy warhol		I'm going to paint this can of soup and become famous and not give you any credit for it.
austin		If you can become famous, everyone will have their fifteen minutes of fame, man.
andy warhol		"Fifteen minutes of fame?"  I'm going to use that quote and not give you any credit for that, either.
austin		Smashing!
queen		Austin Powers, Britain owes you a debt of gratitude.
queen		I understand you were wounded.  Where were you hit?
austin		In the but-tocks.
queen		That must be a sight.  I'd kind of like to see that.
queen		 Nice buttocks.
austin		Wait, I've got an idea.
everyone		Ohhh!
austin		That ain't no woman!  It's a man, man.  It's one of Dr. Evil's assassins.
austin		Where's Doctor Evil?
austin		I've got you again, Dr. Evil!
radar operator		 Commander Gilmour?
radar operator		 Commander, this is Slater in SoWest Com Three.  We have a potential bogey with erratic vectoring and an unorthodox entry angle.
commander gilmour		 Is it one of ours?
radar operator		No.  Log Com Bird Twelve says its metalurg recon analysis is a standard alloy, not stealthy, not carbon- composite.  It does have an odd shape, sir.
commander gilmour		What are you saying, son?
radar operator		It appears to be in the shape of Bob's Big Boy, sir.
commander gilmour		Oh my God, he's back.
radar operator		In many ways, Bob's Big Boy never left, sir.  He's always offered the same high quality meals at competitive prices.
commander gilmour		Shut up.
radar operator		Should we scramble TacHQ for an intercept?
commander gilmour		What's its current position?
radar screen		It was over Nevada, but...oh my God! It's gone!
commander gilmour		Listen son, I want you to forget what you saw here tonight.
radar operator		Commander, I have to log it&emdash;
commander gilmour		That's a direct order.  You didn't see a thing!
commander gilmour		 Philips.
commander gilmour		Call the President
commander gilmour		Prepare the jet...
commander gilmour		Get my overnight bag.
commander gilmour		Philips, do me a favor and feed my fish.
commander gilmour		Not too much!
commander gilmour		I'm going to London, England.
basil exposition		As you know, gentlemen, Dr. Evil had himself frozen in 1967.  Soon after, Austin Powers volunteered to have himself frozen, in the event Dr. Evil should ever return.  We believe Dr. Evil has begun yet another plot to take over the world.  And that, gentlemen, is why we're here.
command gilmour		Outstanding re-cap, Exposition.
borschevsky		Who is this Austin Powers?  Is he a British operative?
basil exposition		No, he worked freelance, an internationally renowned swinging photographer by day and the ultimate gentlemen spy by night.
female announcer		 Attention, Stage One, laser cutting beginning.
female announcer		 Laser cutting complete.  Stage Two, warm liquid goo phase beginning.
female announcer		 Warm liquid goo phases complete. Stage Three, reanimation beginning.
female announcer		 Reanimation complete.  Stage Four, cleansing beginning.
female announcer		 Cleansing complete.  Stage Five, evacuation beginning.
female announcer		Evacuation...  Complete!  The cryogenic state of Austin Powers is now completed.
austin		 Where am I?
basil exposition		You're in the Ministry of Defense. It's 1997.  You've been cryogenically frozen for thirty years.
austin		 WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE?
basil exposition		The shouting is a temporary side- effect of the unfreezing process.
austin		Yes, I'm having trouble controlling&emdash;  THE VOLUME OF MY VOICE!
basil exposition		You might also experience a slight fever, dry mouth, and flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation. Austin, this is Commander Gilmour, Strategic Command, and General Borschevsky, Russian Intelligence.
austin		Russian Intelligence?  Are you mad?
basil exposition		A lot's happened since you were frozen, Austin.  The cold war's over.
austin		Thank God.  Those capitalist dogs will finally pay for their crimes against the people,
basil exposition		We won, Austin.
austin		Groovy.  Smashing!  Good on ya!  Nice tie.  Yea capitalism!
commander gilmour		Mr. Powers, the President's very concerned.  We've got a madman on the loose in Nevada.
basil exposition		It's Dr. Evil.
austin		When do I begin?
basil exposition		Immediately.  You'll be working with Ms. Kensington.
austin		You mean Mrs. Kensington?
basil exposition		No, Austin, Mrs. Kensington has long- since retired.  Ms. Kensington is her daughter.
basil exposition		Vanessa's one of our top agents.
austin		 I hope I didn't say that out loud just now.
vanessa		Mr. Powers, my job is to acclimate you to the Nineties.  You know, a
austin		Well, as long as people are still having promiscuous sex with many anonymous partners without protection, while at the same time experimenting with mind-expanding
vanessa		My mother's told me all about you.
austin		If it's a lie, goddamn her.  It it's the truth, goddamn me.  God, I hope that's witty.  How's your mum?
vanessa		My mother's doing quite well, thank you very much.
basil exposition		Yes, well...Agent Kensington will get you set up.  She's very dedicated. Perhaps, a little too dedicated.  She's got a bit of a bug up her ass. Good luck, Austin, the world's depending on you.
austin		Thank you, Exposition.
basil exposition		Oh, and Austin&emdash;
austin		Yes?
basil exposition		Be careful.
austin		Thanks.
vanessa		Let's gather your personal effects, shall we?
clerk		 Danger Powers, personal effects.
austin		Actually, my name's Austin Powers.
clerk		It says here, name Danger Powers.
austin		Danger's my middle name.
clerk		OK, Austin Danger Powers: One blue crushed-velvet suit.  One frilly lace cravat.  One gold medallion with peace symbol.  One pair of Italian shoes.  One pair of tie-dyed socks, purple.  One vinyl recording album: Tom Jones, Live at Las Vegas. One Swedish-made penis enlarger pump.
austin		 That's not mine.
clerk		 One credit card receipt for Swedish- made penis enlarger pump, signed Austin Powers.
austin		I'm telling you, baby, that's not mine.
clerk		 One warranty card for Swedish-made penis enlarger pump, filled out by Austin Powers.
austin		I don't even know what this is. This sort of thing ain't my bag, baby.
clerk		 One book: Swedish-Made Penis Enlarger Pumps and Me: This Sort of Thing Is My Bag, Baby, by Austin Powers.
austin		OK, OK man, don't get heavy, I'll sign.  Just to get things moving, baby.
vanessa		Listen, Mr. Powers, I look forward to working with you, but do me a favor and stop calling me baby.  You can address me as Agent Kensington. We have to leave immediately.  We've preserved your private jet just as you left it.  It's waiting at Heathrow Airport.
austin		 My jumbo jet?  Smashing baby.
austin		Pretty groovy Jumbo Jet, eh?  How does a hot chick like you end up working at the Ministry of Defense?
vanessa		I went to Oxford and excelled in several subjects, but I ended up specializing in foreign languages. I wanted to travel -- see the world. In my last year I was accepted into the M.O.D. in the Cultural Studies sector.  I thought I was off on an exciting career, but my job was to read everything printed in every country.  It's very boring.  My whole day is spent reading wedding announcements in Farsi.  If I do well with this case, I finally get promoted to field operative...
austin		That's fascinating, Vanessa.  Listen, why don't we go into the back and shag?
vanessa		I beg your pardon?
austin		I've been frozen for thirty years, man, I want to see if my bits and pieces are still working.
vanessa		Excuse me?
austin		My wedding tackle.
vanessa		I'm sorry?
austin		My meat and two veg.
vanessa		Mr. Powers, please.  I know that you must be a little confused, but we have a very serious situation at hand.  I would appreciate it if you'd concentrate on our mission and give your libido a rest.
austin		Have you ever made love to a Chigro?
vanessa		A Chigro?
austin		You know, a Chigro&emdash; part Chinese, part Negro&emdash; Chigro.
vanessa		 We don't use the term 'Negro' anymore. It's considered offensive.
austin		That's right.  You're supposed to say 'colored' now, right?  Here's the stewardesses!  Bring on the sexy stews!
flight attendant		Excuse me, did you say 'stewardess'? We're called 'flight attendants' now, thank you very much.
austin		Oh, I get it, it's like 'I'm not a whore, I'm a sex worker', baby.
flight attendant		My name is Mrs. Wilkenson.  There are a few things we need to discuss. First of all, we're not wearing these.
austin		Seems pretty straightforward, don't you think...listen darling, I think you're a fabulous bird.  Can I get your telephone number?
flght attendant		 It's 777-FILM.  We have to prepare the craft for take-off now.
austin		Smashing!  When we land I'll give you a tinkle on the telling bone.
austin		Brrrr!  She must be frigid.  There's two things I know about life: one, Americans will never take to soccer. Two, Swedish girls and stewardesses love to shag!
vanessa		Sure.
austin		Do I make you horny?
vanessa		What?
austin		Do I make you horny?  Randy, you know.  To you, am I eros manifest?
vanessa		I hope this is part of the unfreezing process.
austin		Listen, Vanessa, I'm a swinger&emdash; that's what I do, I swing.
vanessa		I understand that, Mr. Powers, but let me be perfectly clear with you, perhaps to the point of being insulting.  I will never have sex with you, ever.  If you were the last man on Earth and I was the last woman on Earth, and the future of the human race depended on our having sex simply for procreation, I still would not have sex with you.
austin		What's you point, Vanessa?
computer voice		You've got mail!
basil exposition		Hello Austin.  Hello Vanessa.  This is Basil Exposition, from British Intelligence.
austin		Thank you, Exposition.
basil exposition		Oh, and Austin&emdash;
austin		Yes?
basil exposition		Be careful.
pilot		 Ladies and gentlemen, we're beginning our final descent into Las Vegas International Airport.  Flight attendants will be coming by to collect your drinks, and I'll ask you at this time to please return to the main cabin and put your
mustafa		But my design was perfect!  Your autonomic functions were shut down, and even though your arm wasn't frozen, the aging was retarded, therefore your right arm is only slightly older than the left.
mustafa		But Dr. Evil, all you need to do is&emdash;  --work with this tennis ball.  Squeeze it for twenty minutes a day.  A few months of that and it'll be just as strong as the other arm...
mustafa		We could not anticipate feline complications due to the reanimation process&emdash;
mustafa		 Ahhhhhhhhh!
frau farbissina		 It's a long story.
number two		Over the last thirty years, Virtucon has grown by leaps and bounds.  About fifteen years ago, we changed from volatile chemicals to the communication industry.  We own cable companies in thirty-eight states.
number two		In addition to our cable holdings, we own a steel mill in Cleveland.
number two		Shipping in Texas.
number two		Oil refineries in Seattle.
number two		And a factory in Chicago that makes miniature models of factories.
number two		We also own the Franklin mint, which makes decorative hand-painted theme plates for collectors.  Some plates, like the Gone With The Wind series, have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
number two		Um, Dr. Evil, Prince Charles did have an affair.  He admitted it, and they are now divorced, actually.
number two		Umm, that also has already happened.
number two		Don't you think we should ask for more than a million dollars?  A million dollars isn't that much money these days.
number two		Virtucon alone makes over nine billion dollars a year.
frau farbissina		Remember when we froze your semen, you said that if it looked like you weren't coming back to try and make you a son so that a part of you would live forever?
frau farbissina		Well, after a few years, we got sort of impatient.  Dr. Evil, I want you to meet your son.
frau farbissina		Yes.  Scott!
scott evil		Hi.
scott evil		I haven't seen you my whole life and now you show up and want a relationship?  I hate you!
austin		You've preserved my Jag!  Smashing!
vanessa		Yes, we've had it retrofitted with a secure cellular phone, an on-board computer, and a Global Geosynchronous Positioning Device.  Oh, and finally, this.
austin		Let me guess.  The floss is garotte wire, the toothpaste contains plastic explosives, and the toothbrush is the detonation device.
vanessa		No, actually.  I don't know how to put this really.  Well, there have been fabulous advances in the field of dentistry.
austin		Why?  What's wrong with my teeth?
ausitn		Which side of the bed do you want?
vanessa		You're going to sleep on the sofa. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Powers, that the only reason we're sharing a room is to support our cover story that we're a married couple on vacation.
austin		So, shall we shag now, or shall we shag later?  How do you like to do it?  Do you like to wash up first? Top and tails?  A whore's bath? Personally, before I'm on the job, I like to give my undercarriage a bit of a how's-your-father.
austin		 I'm just joking, Vanessa.  Trying to get a rise out of you.
vanessa		Let's unpack.
austin		Gor blimey, nerd alert.
austin		Hey, who put this in here?  Someone's playing a prank on me!  Honestly, this isn't mine.
vanessa		 I'm sure.
austin		I think I'll give that stew a ding-a- ling.
austin		I got her answering machine.
austin		I love Las Vegas, man.  Oh, I forgot my x-ray glasses.
vanessa		Here, use mine.
austin		I'm going to use a cover name.  It's important that it be a generic name so that we don't draw attention to ourselves.
austin		Do you mind if I join you?
number two		Not at all.
dealer		Seventeen.
number two		Hit me.
dealer		You have seventeen, sir.  The book says not to, sir.
number two		I like to live dangerously.
dealer		Four.  Twenty-one.
dealer		 Sixteen.
number two		I'll stay.
dealer		 Sir?
dealer		 Sir?
vanessa		 What's wrong?
austin		 I can't see a bloody thing.
vanessa		Oh, I forgot to tell you, they're prescription X-ray glasses.  I have very bad astigmatism.
dealer		Sir, the table is waiting.
austin		 Uh, hit me.
dealer		On an eighteen, sir?
austin		Yes, I also like to live dangerously.
number two		You're very brave.
austin		Cards are not my bag, man.  Allow myself to introduce...myself.  My name is Ritchie Cunningham.
austin		 This is my wife, Enid.
number two		My name is Number Two.
vanessa		 Number Two?  That's an unusual name.
number two		My parents were hippies.  This is my Italian confidential secretary.
italian woman		 Alotta Fagina.
austin		I'm sorry, I'm just not getting it. It sounds like you're saying your name is a lot of...never mind. Listen, cats, I'm going to crash. It's been a gas.
number two		Bye-bye, Mr...Cunningham?
austin		Peace, baby.
vanessa		Why did you leave so soon?
austin		That cat Number Two has an X-ray eyepatch.  I get bad vibes from him, man.  Listen, we should go back to the room, but first I have to go to the naughty chair and see a man about a dog.
texan		Good luck, buddy.  You don't buy food, you rent it.
austin		Too right, youth.
austin		 Uh, uh!
texan		Hey pardner, just relax, don't force it!  Use some creative visualization.
austin		Who does Number Two work for?
texan		That's right!  Show that turd who's boss!
austin		Who does Number Two work for?
texan		Jesus Christ, what did you eat?
vanessa		 Hello Mum?
vanessa		Oh, God no, I made him sleep on the couch.
vanessa		Why?
vanessa		Well, God knows he tried, but I've been rather firm with him, Mummy. You didn't tell me he was so obsessed with sex.  It's bizarre.
vanessa		What about his teeth?
vanessa		I just don't see it.
vanessa		Did you ever...
vanessa		Did you ever want to?
vanessa		You didn't answer my question, Mum.
vanessa		 Do you want to talk to him?
vanessa		 Look, I'd better go.  I love you.
austin		Good morning, Vanessa!  I hope you have on clean underwear.
vanessa		Why?
austin		We've got a doctor's appointment&emdash; an evil doctor's appointment.
vanessa		A limousine has just pulled up.
austin		Let me see.
austin		Hello, hello.  That's Dr. Evil's cat.
vanessa		How do you know?
austin		I never forget a pussy...cat.
vanessa		Let's go get him!
austin		He's too well-protected right now.
vanessa		We can't just sit here, Austin.
austin		Let me tell you a story.  There's these two bulls on top of a hill checking out some foxy cows in the meadow below.  The young bull says, 'hey, why don't we run down the hill and shag us a cow?', and the wise old bull replies, 'no, why don't we walk down the hill and shag all the cows?'
vanessa		I don't get it.
austin		Well, you know...cows, and shagging.
vanessa		Unfortunately, while you told that stupid story, Dr. Evil has escaped.
austin		No worries, luv.  We'll just give Basil a tinkle on the telling bone...
austin		My God, Vanessa, you are so incredibly beautiful.  Stay right where you are.
vanessa		I hate having my picture taken.
austin		You're crazy.  The camera loves you, Vanessa.
austin		Go, Vanessa, go!
austin		Alright, luv!  Love it!  Turn...pout for me Vanessa.  Smashing!  Crazy. Give me some shoulder.  Yes!  Yes!  Yes!
austin		Show me love.  Yes!  Smashing!
austin		Great!  Great!  Smashing!  No!  No!
austin		Give me eyes.  And...done.
austin		I'm spent.  What say you we go out on the town?
austin		Fancy a nibble?
vanessa		I couldn't have another bite.
austin		Wait a tick, I forgot something in the lobby.  I know what.  I'll take the stairs.
austin		Maybe I'll take the escalator.
austin		Why take the escalator when I could take a canoe?
vanessa		I haven't had fun like that since college.
austin		I'm sorry.
vanessa		Why?
austin		I'm sorry that bug up your ass had to die.
vanessa		Always wanting to have fun, that's you in a nutshell.
austin		No, this is me in a nutshell.
austin		Help!  I'm in a nutshell!  What kind of nut has such a big nutshell?  How did I get into this bloody great big nutshell?
austin		You're smashed, Vanessa.
vanessa		I am not.
austin		Oh, yes you are.
vanessa		I'm not.  I'm the sensible one.  I'm always the designated driver.
austin		I can't.  You're drunk.
vanessa		It's not that I'm drunk, I'm just beginning to see what my Mum was talking about.  What was my mother like back in the Sixties?  I'm dying to know.
austin		 She was very groovy.  She was so in love with your Dad.  If there was one
basil exposition		 Hello, Austin, this is Basil Exposition from British Intelligence. Thank you for confirming the link between Dr. Evil and Virtucon.  Find out what part Virtucon plays in something called Project Vulcan. I'll need you and Vanessa to get on that immediately.
austin		Right away, Exposition.
basil exposition		Where is Vanessa, by the way?
austin		She's working on another lead right now.
basil exposition		Then you'll have to go it alone. Good luck.
austin		Thank you, Basil.
basil exposition		Oh, and Austin&emdash;
austin		 Yes?
basil exposition		Let me remind you that because of the unfreezing process you might experience flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation.
austin		Oh, yes.  Thank you.
basil exposition		There's one more thing, Austin.
austin		Yes?
basil exposition		Be careful.
austin		Thank you.
austin		Paging Dr. Freud.
austin		 Give it to me baby.  Super.
austin		Pout for me, luv.  Smashing.  Yes! Yes!  Yes!  No!  No!
austin		And I'm spent.
austin		You seem surprised to see me.
alotta		I thought you'd quit while you were ahead.
austin		What, and watch all my earnings go...  Down the toilet?
alotta		What do you want, Mr...Cunningham, was it?
austin		Call me Ritchie, Miss Fagina.  May I call you Alotta...  Please?
alotta		You may.
austin		Your boss, Number Two, I understand that cat's involved in big underground drills.
alotta		Virtucon's main interest is in cable television, but they do have a subterranean construction division, yes.  How did you know?
austin		 I didn't, baby, you just told me.
alotta		It's for the mining industry, Mr. Cunningham.  We can talk about business later.  But first, let me slip into something more comfortable.
austin		Behave!
alotta		Come in.
austin		I'd rather talk about Number Two.
alotta		Don't you like girls, Mr. Cunningham? Come in, and I'll show you everything you need to know.
alotta		May I wash you?
austin		Groovy.
alotta		In Japan, men come first and women come second.
austin		Or sometimes not at all.
alotta		Care for some saki?
austin		Sak-i it to me!
alotta		How do you feel, Mr. Cunningham?
austin		Mmmm...I feel extreme relaxation.
austin		 'Pardon me for being rude, It was not me, it was my food.
alotta		That's very clever.  Do you know any other poems?
austin		 'Milk, milk, lemonade.
alotta		 Thank you, that's beautiful.  To your health.
austin		To my health.
alotta		Kiss me.
alotta		Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
austin		Is it about my teeth?
alotta		Yes.
austin		Damn.  What exactly do you do at Virtucon?
alotta		I'll tell you all in due time, after we make love.  But first, tell me another poem.
austin		I think it was Wordsworth who penned this little gem:  'Press the button, pull the chain, out comes a chocolate choo-choo train.'
alotta		Oh, you're very clever.  Let's make love, you silly, hairy little man.
frau farbissina		Ya wohl&emdash; I mean, yes wohl, Herr Doctor.  I have created the ultimate weapon to defeat Austin Powers.  Bring on the Fembots!
frau farbissina		These are the latest word in android replicant technology.  Lethal, efficient, brutal.  And no man can resist their charms.  Send in the soldiers!
frau farbissina		Thank you, Herr Doctor.
number two		That would be the video feed from Kreplachistan.
evil associates		 Ha-ha-ha-ha.
evil associates		Okay.  Sure.
austin		Hello, Exposition.
basil exposition		Austin, Vanessa, let me bring you up to speed.  Dr. Evil has high-jacked a nuclear warhead from Kreplachistan and is holding the world ransom for one-hundred billion dollars.  If the world doesn't pay up in four days, he's threatening to destroy the world.
austin		Thank you, Exposition.  Only two things, scare me, and one is nuclear war.
basil exposition		What's the other?
austin		Excuse me?
basil exposition		What's the other thing you're scared of?
austin		Carnies.
basil exposition		What?
austin		Circus folk.  Nomads, you know.  They smell like cabbage.
basil exposition		 Indeed...If we could get back to the business at hand.  It's one thing to have a warhead, it's quite another thing to have the missiles to launch it.
austin		Maybe these photographs are the last piece of that puzzle.  I've uncovered the details on Project Vulcan.  It's a new subterranean warhead delivery system.
basil exposition		Good God, and underground missile. We've long feared such a development.
vanessa		When did you find that out, Austin?
basil exposition		Austin did some reconnaissance work at Alotta Fagina's penthouse last night.
vanessa		Oh.
basil expositon		Our next move is to infiltrate Virtucon.  Any ideas?
vanessa		Yes, Virtucon runs a tour of their facilities every hour.  I suggest we pose as tourists and do site-level reconnaissance.
basil exposition		Top drawer, Kensington.  Oh, Austin, I want you to meet somebody.
basil exposition		Austin, this is my mother, Mrs. Exposition.  She's in from Tunbridge Wells
basil exposition		My God, Austin, what have you done?
austin		That's not your mother, that's a man!
basil exposition		Get away from my mother!
vanessa		Austin, have you gone mad?
basil exposiion		Don't worry, mother.  Lie down. Austin, you have a lot of explaining to do.
austin		I'm sorry, Basil, I thought she was a man.
basil exposition		Damn it, man!  You're talking about my mother!
austin		You must admit, she is rather mannish. No offense, but if that's a woman, it looks like she's been beaten with an ugly stick.
vanessa		Really, Austin!
austin		Look at her hands, baby!  Those are carpenter's hands.
basil exposition		All right, Austin, I think you should go.
austin		I think if everyone were honest, they'd confess that the lady looks exactly like a man in drag.
basil exposition		I'm leaving!  Oh, and Austin?
austin		Yes, Basil?
basil exposition		Be careful.
austin		Thanks.
vanessa		Austin, may I have a word with you?
austin		Of course, luv.
vanessa		Listen, I know I'm just being neurotic, but I can't shake this suspicious
austin		Don't be sorry.  You're right to be suspicious.  I shagged her.  I shagged her rotten.
vanessa		 I can't believe you made love to her just like that.  Did you use protection?
austin		Of course, I had my nine-millimeter automatic.
vanessa		No, did you use a condom?
austin		Only sailors use condoms, man.
vanessa		Not in the Nineties.
austin		Well they should, filthy beggars, they go from port to port.  Alotta meant nothing to me.
vanessa		 Well, it means something to me.  If you want us to have a relationship, you've got to be a one-woman man.
austin		It was just a shag, Vanessa.  You're everything to me.
vanessa		You just don't get it, do you, Austin? Good night.  Welcome to the Nineties, you're going to be very lonely.
austin		Hello, luv.
vanessa		Thirty years of political and social upheaval.  The fall of the Berlin wall, a female Prime Minister of England, the abolishment of Apartheid, a fascinating tapestry of human strum und drang.
austin		Yeah, I can't believe Liberace was gay.  Women loved him, man.  I didn't see that one coming.
vanessa		Basil was very concerned to know where you were last night.
austin		Out and about, doing odds and sods.
vanessa		I'll tell him.  By the way, I've decided we should keep our relationship strictly professional.
son 1		 I love you, Dad.
dad 1		I love you, Son.
therapist		That was great, Mr. Keon, Dave. Thank you.  OK, group, we have two new member.  Say hello to Scott and his father, Mr....Ehville?
group		Hello, Dr. Evil.  Hello, Scott.
scott evil		 Hello, everybody.
therapist		So, Scott, why don't we start with you.  Why are you here?
scott evil		Well, it's kind of weird.
therapist		We don't judge here.
scott evil		OK.  Well, I just really met my Dad for the first time three days ago. He was partially frozen for thirty years.  I never knew him growing up. He comes back and now he wants me to take over the family business.
therapist		And how do you feel about that?
scott evil		I don't wanna take over the family business.
scott evil		Not me.
therapist		What do you want to do, Scott?
scott evil		I don't know.  I was thinking, maybe I'd be a vet or something, cause I like animals and stuff.
scott evil		No.  Maybe, like, work in a petting zoo or something.
scott evil		 Anyways, this is really hard, because, you know, my Dad is really evil.
therapist		We don't label people here, Scott.
scott evil		No, he's really evil.
therapist		Scott.
therapist		Don't be so hard on yourself.  You're here, that's what's important.  A journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.
scott evil		I just think, like, he hates me.  I really think he wants to kill me.
therapist		OK, Scott, no one really wants to "kill" anyone here.  They say it, but they don't mean it.
therapist		We've heard from Scott, now let's hear from you.
therapist		That's not true, Doctor.  Please, tell us about your childhood.
group		Yes, of course.  Go ahead, etc.
austin		Since I've been unfrozen, I've had a rancid taste in my mouth.  Do you have a piece of gum?
vanessa		 Do you think she's prettier than I?
austin		Who?
vanessa		You know who.
austin		No!  Don't lay your hang-ups on me, Vanessa.  You're being very trippy.
vanessa		I'm looking at you, and the whole time I can't help thinking you had your willie inside her hootchie-kooch.
austtin		Well put.  Listen love, we can't keep having this fight.  I'm an International Man of Mystery. Sometimes in the course of my work to save the world I have to shag some crumpet.  It's all part of the job.
tour guide		Welcome to Virtucon, the company of the future.  Some plates, like the Gone With The Wind series, have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent, but, as with any investment, there is some risk involved.
tour guide		Coming up on the left, we have the Virtucon gift shop, offering a wide range of Virtucon licensed products. On the right, you'll notice a door that leads to a restricted area. Only authorized personnel are allowed beyond that point.
austin		I'll take him, you take her.
vanessa		Austin, we don't look anything like our photo badges.
austin		Don't worry, baby.  I picked up a mind control technique during my travels to India.  I learned it from my guru, the late Guru Shastri, a chaste man who mysteriously died of a disease that had all the hallmarks of syphilis.
guard		Hi, folks.  You're entering a restricted zone.  Can I see your security badges?
austin		Sure.
austin		 Everything seems to be in order.
guard		 Hey, wait a minute&emdash;
guard		 Everything seems to be in order.
vanessa		That's amazing.  Let's go!
austin		Hold on one second.
austin		Here, have a piece of gum.
guard		 Here, have a piece of gum.
austin		Don't mind if I do.
guard		 Hey!  Wait a minute, that's my last piece of gum.
austin		No, no, I want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
guard		 No, no, I want you to have it, even if it's my last piece.
austin		 I'm going to go across the street and get you some sherbert.
vanessa		 Austin, we have to go!
scientist		This is the strongest, sharpest drill bit ever produced by man.  It weighs fifteen metric tones and can bore through a mile-thick bedrock of solid granite in seven seconds.
announcer		 Attention, there are intruders in the complex.
scientist		Get them!
austin		Judo chop!  Judo chop!
austin		Our only way out of here is to drive out!
austin		Hang on!  I'm going to floor it!
guard		Noooooooooooooo!
austin		Where did you learn to shoot?
vanessa		Where did you learn to drive?
guard		Noooooooooooooo!
vanessa		Austin, watch out!
austin		 Where?  Where?
guard		Noooooooooooooo!
vanessa		Thank God, Austin, we made it.
austin		Yes, act naturally and we'll split this scene the way we came in, Vanessa.
billy		Was?  What is it, Mom?
billy		A steamroller?  No, not Steve!  Since Dad died, Steve's been like a father to me.
vanessa		I don't understand.
austin		What's wrong with your hand?
austin		I'm sorry, baby, I'm just not grocking your head space.
austin		 Does that make you horny?
vanessa		 Not now, Austin.
basil exposition		 My God, man, don't you understand? It won't just be active volcanoes, inactive ones will erupt as well. Seven-eighths of the Earth's land mass will be deluged with hot magma. Tectonic plates will shift, causing massive earthquakes.  Imagine no United Kingdom.  Think of it, no cricket, no tea, no freshly toasted crumpets smothered with Devonshire clotted cream, the diving mystery of Stonehenge.  Imagine severing forever the continuity of Britannic majesty, the demise of this sceptered isle, this jewel, this England...
basil exposition		 I'm afraid we've lost contact with him.
scott evil		Well, me and a buddy went to the video arcade in town and, like, they don't speak English right, and so my buddy gets into a fight, and he goes 'hey, quit hassling me cause I don't speak French or whatever', and the other guy goes something in Paris talk, and I go 'um, just back off' and he goes 'get out' and I go 'make me'.
scott evil		Thought I'd stay in.  There's a good tittie movie on Skinemax.
scott evil		Yeah.  What?
scott evil		Why are you feeding him?  Why don't you just kill him?
scott evil		But what if he escapes?  Why don't you just shoot him?  What are you waiting for?
scott evil		Why don't you just shoot him now? Here, I'll get a gun.  We'll just shoot him.  Bang!  Dead.  Done.
austin		Dr. Evil, do you really expect them to pay?
frau farbissina		 Dr. Evil?
frau farbissina		It's about the sharks.  Since you were frozen, they've been placed on the Endangered Species List.  We tried to get some, but it will take months to clear up the red tape.
frau farbissina		Well, we experimented with lasers, but you would be surprised at how heavy they are.  They actually outweighed the piranha themselves, and the fish, well, they sank to the bottom and died.
frau farbissina		Sea bass.
frau farbissina		They're mutated sea bass.
frau farbissina		Please allow me to demonstrate.
scott evil		Aren't you going to watch them? They'll get away!
scott evil		I have a gun in my room.  Give me five seconds, I'll come back and blow their brains out.
vanessa		What's your plan?
austin		First, I plan to soil myself.  Then, I plan to regroup and think about the next move.  Any thoughts?
vanessa		Sadly, no.  Hold on!  I always keep this on me just in case.
austin		All right, I get it.  I have bad teeth.  You have to understand, in Britain in the Sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth. It didn't matter.
vanessa		No, no, no.  We'll use the floss to get to the ledge.
austin		Smashing idea!  Give it to me.
austin		Judo chop!
guard		 My eyes!  My eyes!
austin		Hold on, Vanessa!
vanessa		 Austin, watch out!
austin		Not a good time to lose one's head.
vanessa		Indeed.
austin		That's not the way to get ahead in life.
vanessa		Yes.
austin		It's a shame he wasn't more headstrong.
vanessa		Shut up.
austin		Fair enough.
guy 1		I can't believe John Smith is getting married tomorrow.
guy 2		Where is Smittie anyways?  It's not like him to be late for anything, especially his own stag party.
guy 3		Well, you know he's a henchman for Dr. Evil.  Sometimes they work late. Can I just say something that may sound a little sappy?  I think it's a testament to our friend John that so many of his buddies showed up in his honor.  There's a lot of love in this room.
waitress		Hi, I have a phone call here for the John Smith party.
guy 1		Hello?  Decapitated by mutated flying sea bass?  Oh my God!  OK, thank you.
guy 2		 Hey Bill, what's wrong?  Was that John?  Is he coming late?
guy 1		Guys, John's not coming.
guy 2		Why?
guy 1		He was decapitated by mutated flying sea bass.
guys		 Oh no, oh my God, etc.
guy 1		All right, to Smittie!
guys		To Smittie!
vanessa		What do we do now?
austin		We've got a freaked out square and world annihilation is his bag.  You go get help.  I'm gonna stay here and keep an eye on the bad Doctor.
vanessa		I'm not going anywhere.  We're a team.
austin		Too right, youth.  That's why I need you to lead the troops.
vanessa		I'll hurry back.
austin		Listen, Vanessa, whatever happens, I just want you to know that I feel bad about shagging that Italian girl. I had a sip of sake and all of the sudden, I don't know what happened. The whole time I was shagging her&emdash; I mean really shagging her, I mean it was crazy, I was like a huge mechanical piston, in and out, IN and OUT!&emdash;
vanessa		 Austin, what's your point?
austin		Anyways, what I'm trying to say is that if you want me to be a one-woman man, well, that's just groovy, because...I love you.
vanessa		Oh, behave!
scott evil		I don't want to.
scott evil		 Blow me.
scott evil		Show me.
austin		Hello, hello.
fembot		Hello, Mr. Powers, care to have a little fun?
austin		 No, actually, I have to save the world.
austin		Is it cold in here?
austin		 Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day!  Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day!  Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day!
fembot		You can't resist us, Mr. Powers. Eventually you'll give in.
austin		Au contraire, I think you can't resist me.
ausitn		Oh, I fell over.
austin		It's not what it looks like, Vanessa.  At ease, boys.
vanessa		 Likewise.
austin		I can explain.  They attacked me. Gas came out of her...well, and then they...and I...
vanessa		I believe you, Austin.  Let's go.
austin		Hold on a tick, let me put on my togs.
austin		Follow me!  We're going to have to jump over the rail!
vanessa		Are you crazy?
austin		Don't worry!
austin		Blast!  Out of ammo.
vanessa		Austin, I'm coming with you.
austin		I'm going it alone this time, Vanessa. I have a follow-up visit with the Evil Doctor.
vanessa		I'll secure the perimeter.
austin		Well, Destructacon 5000, you have quite a head on your shoulders, I dare to coin.
austin		Really?  Let me ask you this.  What is love?
austin		Why not?  It's a question.
austin		 Where's the abort button?
austin		Ow!  That really hurt.  I'm going to have a lump there, you idiot!  Who throws a shoe?  You fight like a woman.
austin		Care for a drink?
austin		Shocking.
austin		 Nooooooo!
austin		I've got you, Dr. Evil!
austin		No, man, what we swingers were rebelling against were uptight squares like you, whose bag was money and world domination.  We were innocent, man.  If we'd known the consequences of our sexual liberation, we would have done things differently, but the spirit would have remained the same.  It's freedom, man.
austin		That's why right now is a very groovy time, man.  We still have freedom, but we also have responsibility.
alotta		Not so fast.
scott evil		Hey, Dad, I can take my Sega, right?
austin		It seems the tables have turned again, Dr. Evil.
austin		Man, you are one chilly square!
scott evil		Dad, we just made a breakthrough in group!
scott evil		I hate you!  I hate you!  I wish I was never artificially created in a lab.
vanessa		This is for sleeping with my man, you whore!
alotta		I didn't sleep with him.
vanessa		I don't believe you.
alotta		 It's the teeth.
vanessa		OK, I believe you.  But you still must be chopped.
vanessa		Judo chop!
austin		Let's split!
vanessa		I have something to tell you.
austin		Lay it on me.
vanessa		I love you, Austin.
austin		That's fab, because I love you, too, Vanessa.
vanessa		Kiss me.
austin		Behave!
austin		Just when things were getting interesting.
basil exposition		Well, Austin, you've stopped Dr. Evil from destroying the world with his subterranean nuclear probe, and somehow you and Agent Kensington managed to escape unscathed from his evil lair.
austin		I'd say that about sums it up, Exposition.
basil exposition		Not quite, actually.  Vanessa, I have something for you.
basil exposition		Because of your exemplary service to Her Majesty, you are now officially an active Field Agent with all the privileges and responsibilities thereof.
vanessa		Thank you, Exposition.  I'm honored.
austin		Congratulations, Field Agent Kensington!
basil exposition		Austin, I have something for you as well.
basil exposition		Here's the number of my dentist, he's first rate.  Ring him up, he'll look after you.
austin		Thanks, Basil.  Maybe the Nineties aren't so bad after all.
vanessa		Oh, Austin.
basil exposition		Austin, now, about your next mission&emdash; Still kissing Vanessa, Austin motions with his thumbs to the pilot of the helicopter to lift Basil up.  He rises away in mid- sentence.
basil exposition		 But, wait, I&emdash; you got me again. Oh, and Austin&emdash;
austin		 Yes Basil?
basil exposition		 Be careful!
austin		So, Dr. Evil, do you expect the world to pay the ransom?
roger moore		Oh, behave!
indian ausitn		 Well, my good fellow, are you expecting me to pay the ransom to you, you despot?
indian austin		 'IF MUSIC BE THE FOOD OF LOVE, LET'S BAKE A CAKE.'
austin		Behave!
****Dialogues from script :Austin_Powers_-_The_Spy_Who_Shagged_Me.txt****

narrator		In his last adventure, Austin Powers, a swinging spy from the Sixties, was unfrozen in the Nineties to battle his archenemy Dr.  Evil. Austin foiled Dr. Evil's plan to send a nuclear warhead to the center of the earth and banished him into space forever. Or so he thought.
vanessa		I love you, Mr. Powers.
austin		And I love you, Mrs. Powers.
vanessa		Let's go out on the terrace. It's a beautiful night, we can look at the stars.
austin		Look how beautiful the night sky is.
vanessa		Isn't that the big dipper?
austin		Yeah, and that looks just like Uranus.
vanessa		Austin!
austin		 Well, you know.
vanessa		Hey, I've never seen that big star before.
austin		Yeah, what is that?
austin		Oh well, I guess it was nothing.
austin		Care for some champagne?  Here's to monotony-- I mean, monogamy!
austin		Hello? Vanessa? What are you doing, luv?
vanessa		 Just putting on my--
fembot vanessa		 MAKE-UP!
austin		 Vanessa, you're a Fembot!
austin		Machine gun jubblies, how did I miss those?
vanessa		 PERHAPS NEXT TIME YOU SHOULD TRY FOREPLAY.
austin		 Wait a tic! That means I'm single! Oh, behave!
austin		Yeah, baby, I'm free! I'm naked and free!
austin		Shaguar, baby, yeah!
bobby		Dad, I know you're against race mixing and all that, but I met someone...
klansman		Don't say it!
bobby		I met someone... and he's black.
klansman		He?
jerry springer		Please welcome Tim.
jerry springer		Now Scott, tell us about your father. Share with us.
scott		Well he's the head of an evil organization that has aspirations for world domination.
jerry springer		And where is your father right now?
scott		He's in outer space, like frozen in a giant egg and stuffed inside a Big Boy rocket with his cat, Mr. Bigglesworth.
jerry springer		Really? Well, we have a surprise for you, Scott. Let's bring out
scott		I can't believe you'd do this to me on national television!
jerry springer		Dr. Evil, we've seen a lot of the fathers here today open up to their sons, sons to the fathers. Is there anything you'd like to share?
jerry springer		Yes, don't you have any secrets?
klansman		What are you, some kind of freak?
scott		Shut up, jagoff!
klansman		I'll kick your ass punk!
number two		Dr. Evil, as the legitimate frontman of your organization, I seized upon the opportunity to invest in a small Seattle-based coffee company several years ago. Today, Starbucks is a far- flung empire with 2000 outlets worldwide.
number two		If I may continue, I believe if we shift our resources away from world domination and focus on providing premium quality coffee drinks, we can increase our gross profits fivefold.
number two		 Dr. Evil, I think you--
number two		May I add, I appreciate you reinstating me after our little... misunderstanding.
frau		Zehr gut, Herr Doctor.
frau		I have come to embrace the love that dare not speak it's name. To my right is my lover.
frau		Her name is Unibrau. I met her on the LPGA Tour.
frau		Doctor, you have a 'milk mustache.'
number two		Dr. Evil, I'd like to introduce the Greek assassin, Oedipus.
oedipus		I could give a shit.
oedipus		Yes.
number two		 Dr. Evil, as you know, the rate at which you liquidate henchmen far exceeds our ability to replace them.
number two		Well, Dr. Evil, perhaps I have the answer. While you were frozen, we began a program to clone you.
number two		We had a few glitches, but I think you'll be pleased with the results.
frau		 Send in the clone!
number two		He is identical to you in every way, except he is one-eighth your size.
number two		 Uh-hem.
number two		No, not that I'm aware of.
scott		Because you never kill him when you get the chance and you're a dope?
number two		Mojo?
frau		Yes, mojo. The mojo is the life force, the essence, the libido, the "right stuff".
scott		If you've got a time machine, why don't you just go back and kill Austin Powers when he's a baby or something?
number two		 Dr. Evil, wouldn't it be easier to use your knowledge of the future to play the stock market? We could literally make trillions.
number two		Excuse me?
scott		A trillion is more than a billion, numb-nuts.
scott		Can I come?
number two		Hello there.
british colonel		We've had reports that there's a spy in the Ministry of Defense.  The contents of this room are vital to the country. Be on special alert.
fat soldier		 Those bastards will have to kill me before I let anything happen to this wee naked hairy popsicle, sir!
british colonel		Very good. And try and lose some weight for God's sake!
fat soldier		Yessir!  I outta smash your teeth out with a Toffee Hammer Mr. English Colonel Telling-Me-What-To-Do-And-Stealing- our-Oil-Refusing-To-Recognize- our- Scottish-Independence!
austin		Gor blimey, I'm on empty! That's funny, I just filled the Shaguar up this morning.
basil exposition		 Hello, I'm Basil Exposition, head of British Intelligence.
austin		You always are, Basil. Listen, the weirdest thing just happened, I've run out of petrol.
basil exposition		We'll send a man around immediately. How was your honeymoon?
austin		Vanessa tried to kill me, Basil. She was a Fembot!
basil exposition		Ah women, who can understand them? Moving on, let's discuss your new case.
austin		New case? Very shagadelic, Basil!
basil exposition		You'll be doing a photo shoot. We know that one of the models is an ex- KGB agent selling top secret material to the highest bidder.
austin		That sounds easy enough, you know what they say: all work and no shagging makes Austin a dull boy, man!
austin		 Tres chic, baby.
reg		Austin, the models are ready.
austin		Ta, Reg. Bless your cotton socks. Hey, Reg, do you have any hobbies?
reg		What?
austin		Hobbies, man! I for one enjoy making models!
supermodels		 It's him! Oh my God! It's Austin Powers!
austin		One at a time, girls. One. At. A. Time!
cindy		Hi, I'm Cindy. I don't believe I've had the pleasure.
austin		Of course you haven't had "The Pleasure", we just met, baby, yeah!
rebecca		How do you do, Austin? I'm Rebecca.  Your equipment is quite impressive.
austin		Thank you. Your breasts are amazing.
austin		And what's your name, baby?
model		 Ivana Humpalot.
austin		Excuse me?
ivana		Ivana. Ivana Humpalot.
austin		And I vanna toilet made of solid gold but it's just not in the cards, now is it?
austin		Alright, baby! Love it. Turn and pout for me baby! Smashing!
austin		Great, darling. Give me some shoulder. Yes, yes, yes.  No! No!
austin		 Show me love. Smashing! You're an animal. You're a tiger. Be a tiger, baby! You're great! You're Grrrrrr- eat! You're Tony, be corn flakes, baby, be frosted. Now be a lemur, baby! You're a ring-tailed lemur.
rebecca		A lemur?
austin		A small mammal native to the African savannah. C'mon baby, you know. Like this!  I take it back. Be a tiger again. Smashing!
austin		And... done! I'm spent!
reg		Hel-lo, you forgot about Ivana.
austin		I didn't forget, baby. Miss Humpalot and I are going to have a 'private session'.
ivana		When did you get "The Clapper"?
austin		November, 1964, Dutch East Indies, shore leave.
ivana		Are you cold, Mr. Powers?
austin		I once had a bad experience with frostbite. I had to dip my tadger into a brandy snifter.
ivana		Do you know how we keep warm in Russia?
austin		I can guess, baby.
ivana		We play chess.
austin		I guessed wrong.
ivana		It takes a keen intelligence to play chess. Of course, you know what they say about men with big brains, don't you?
austin		They wear large hats?
ivana		No, they make better lovers.
austin		Wrong again.
ivana		I assume you know how to play.
austin		Of course.  The... horsey... moves in an L shape.
austin		Let's stop playing games with each other... especially difficult ones. May I ask you a question, Miss Humpalot?
ivana		Of course.
austin		Do I make you horny? Do I?
ivana		I'll tell you anything you want to know, just make love to me.
ivana		You are hairy, like an animal!
austin		 Grrrr, baby.
austin		Grrrr. Ruf! Ruf!  Wait a tick, I don't want him watching me while I'm on the job!
ivana		Make love to me, monkey man.
austin		Groovy, baby!
austin		 Crikey, I've lost my mojo.
basil exposition		Where is he? In here?
basil exposition		Austin, I came as soon as I heard.
austin		There must be some kind of mistake, Basil. Maybe I was drunk and I didn't know it.
basil exposition		What's wrong with your neck, Austin?
austin		 I took a Viagra and it got caught in my throat. I've had a stiff neck for hours. Basil, is it true? Have I lost my mojo?
basil exposition		We're going to run a few tests, Austin. Don't worry, old friend, we'll get to the bottom of this.
nurse		Excuse me, Mr. Powers, I need to give you a sponge bath before we begin the test.
austin		 Alright, miss, just let me finish this article on the Suez crisis.
austin		What's going on?
basil exposition		Alright, everyone, we're done.
austin		But the test hasn't even started!
basil exposition		Agent Haggerty was the test, Austin. Not only were you actually reading an article in that Playboy, but a candy-stripe nurse offering to give you a sponge bath didn't so much as turn your head.
austin		Wait, I can explain, man! I was going to shag her but the article was so fascinating--
basil exposition		I'm sorry, Austin, I'm afraid it's true: you've lost your mojo.
austin		 Without my mojo, I'm useless to the Ministry and to Her Majesty.  I think it's time to retire.
basil exposition		I'm afraid that's not possible, Austin. You see, Dr. Evil has returned.
austin		Again?
basil exposition		Again.
basil exposition		We have evidence that Dr. Evil has developed a time machine.
basil exposition		Our researcher noticed that these photos from the archives have changed. That means Dr. Evil is traveling back in time and creating alliances with each decade's most despised villains.
austin		I can't read in the car. I get a bit vomy.
austin		Got it. I almost gipped.
austin		But Basil, isn't that the new Volkswagen Beetle?
basil exposition		That's what they'd like you to believe.
austin		So, Basil, if I travel back to 1969 and I was frozen in 1967, I could go look at my frozen self. But, if I'm still frozen in 1967, how could I have been unthawed in the 90's and traveled back to the Sixties?  Oh, no, I've gone cross-eyed.
basil exposition		 I suggest you don't worry about those things and just enjoy yourself.
austin		This is smashing Basil. I'll go back to the Sixties, recharge my mojo, defeat Dr. Evil and be back in time for tea.
basil exposition		Good luck, Austin.
austin		Luck has nothing to do with it, Basil.
austin		Sorry.  Swinging Sixties, here I come, baby, yeah!
austin		I feel better already, man!
austin		Alright, baby, a swinging shin-dig!
austin		 'THERE'S A SEXUAL REVOLUTION, YOU CAN FEEL IT IN THE AIR.  PEOPLE SHAGGING JUST LIKE WEASELS AND THEY JUST DON'T SEEM TO CARE.
austin		 HEY, WATCH OUT SQUARES...  YOU MAKES US BORED!  THE PENIS IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD
austin		 THERE'S A SEXUAL REVOLUTION AND YOU AIN'T SEEN NOTHING YET PEOPLE SHAGGING IN THE CLUBS AND INSIDE A JUMBO JET
austin		 HEY SQUARE WORLD THE END IS NIGH. WHEN WE SAY HUMP YOU SAY 'HOW HIGH?'
austin		 SO GO MAKE LOVE OR MASTURBATE-- SEXUAL FREEDOM WILL NEVER BE OUT OF DAAAAAAAAAAATE!
everyone		 IT'S THE SIXTIES!
felicity		Care for a ride?
austin		That's my Beetle, baby.
felicity		It was your Beetle. Get in.
felicity		Austin Powers, I presume?
austin		Powers by name, Powers by reputation.
felicity		Felicity Shagwell, CIA. Shagwell by name, Shag-very-Well by reputation.
austin		 Crazy, baby!
felicity		Grab the wheel, would you?
assassin		Ahhhhhhhh!
felicity		Well, Austin, I think this time you may have met your match.
austin		Oh, I've beaten Dr. Evil before, and I'll beat him again.
felicity		I was talking about me.
austin		Welcome to my shag pad, baby.
austin		Care for something to drink?
austin		Or perhaps something to read?
austin		How about a hot cup of coffee?
felicity		Yes, I rather fancy a grind.
austin		Oh, Behave!
austin		Would you like a... mas-sage? A sensssual mas-sage?
austin		How does that feel, baby?
felicity		Mmm, lower.
austin		 HOW DOES THAT FEEL, BABY?
felicity		Wait, something's itching me.
felicity		That's better.
austin		Crikey!!!
austin		Sorry.
austin		 Hello, anyone home? C'mon lads, do it for England.
felicity		Oh, that was so relaxing. Felicity stretches very sexily.
austin		Would you 'like to see my etchings?
felicity		 I think I'm ready for bed.
austin		I'll get you some PJs.
felicity		No, I'm ready for bed.
austin		Oh, you'll want to clean your teeth then.
felicity		No, I want to have sex with you, Austin.
austin		Hello Vicar!
felicity		I've studied everything about you- your methods, your accomplishments, your preferences. You're the reason I became a spy. Now, I've waited two years to meet you, so I say we get busy making up for lost time.
austin		 Felicity, I used to think that way, too, but I guess... I guess I've changed.  Not to make a short story long, or to ramble on and on, or to keep talking in a repetitive manner ad infinitum until it becomes impossible to remember what I was talking about in the first place, but- where was I?
austin		Oh yes. Felicity, I can't shag you. I've lost my mojo.
felicity		 Oh.
austin		I thought coming back to the Sixties would bring it back, but it hasn't.
felicity		Austin, don't worry. I know just the man to help you. He's my guru. Ringo recommended him and he's the best.
austin		I'll warm up the Jumbo Jet, baby!
felicity		There he is. That's my guru.
felicity		Guru, I'd like you to meet Austin Powers.
austin		How are you baby?
guru pitka		My chakras are aligned and I am in a perfect state of equipoise.
austin		Good on ya. I don't know what that means but it sounds fab.
felicity		Guru, we need some advice.
guru pitka		Hold your horses and any other beasts- of burden. I must lead my disciples in meditation and then I will help you.
disciples		Ahhhhhh!
guru pitka		My name is the Guru Pitka. I am a spiritual teacher and I have combined many disparate disciplines into a unified movement of human potentiality and equipoise that I learned from my guru, the late Guru Shastri, a chaste man who died mysteriously of a disease that strangely had all the hallmarks of syphilis. He would say to me, Sparky, love is all, life is breath.
disciples		Ahhhhhh!
guru pitka		Now, perhaps you are wondering where I got the nickname Sparky.  Well, when we were young we used to play a game called "Stinkmop". We would urinate into a bucket, dip a mop into it, and play tag. I did not care for "Stinkmop" and a very wise old man said to me 'oh lighten up, Sparky', and I don't know, the name kind of stuck.
disciples		Ahhhhhhhh...
guru pitka		Now, the reason I am a spiritualist instead of a therapist is that 'therapist' often becomes 'the rapist' and that will not help us attain potentiality. Now what is potentiality? It is the ability to achieve those goals that we wish to achieve for ourselves. People often say to me that they feel "nowhere", and I am going to change that to "Now here."
disciples		Ahhhhhhh...
guru pitka		And you have many assumptions about your goals, but when you "assume" You make an "ass" out of "u" and "me".
disciples		Ahhhhhhh....
guru pitka		The being, or that which we call 'ourselves', is not the tinker.  It is not the taughts. It is the Gap between the tinker and the taughts! We are not our mind, we are not our body, we are the Gap!
disciples		Ahhhhh...
guru pitka		 The heart of the matter is that you are the heart of the matter.  There is no "I" in "team". Beer before liquor, never sicker. Don't take a wooden nickel.  If your pipe is short and your pump is weak, you better stand close or you'll piss on your feet. He who goes to bed with itchy bum wakes up with smelly finger.
disciples		Ahhhhh...
guru pitka		Finally, the path to spiritual awakening requires the death of ego. Leggo of my ego! Let us end with the mantra: Om Ay Vant Yu Uh... Mo Ay Vant Yu Uh... Mo Ay Vant Yu Hu.
disciples		 Om Ay Vant Yu Uh... Mo Ay Vant Yu Uh... Mo Ay Vant Yu Hu.
guru pitka		Go with God, and pay at the door please.
guru pitka		How can I help you?
austin		Guru, I'm having trouble performing.
guru pitka		What do you mean?
austin		You know- my bits and pieces are a bit sleepy.
guru pitka		I'm not understanding.
austin		I've forgotten the steps to the Mummy- Daddy dance.
guru pitka		Still not clear.
austin		My flag's at half mast and no one will salute it.
guru pitka		Sorry?
austin		My Willie don't work.
guru pitka		Why are you beating around the bush?
austin		That's my problem.
guru pitka		Ohhhhh, I get it.  No, I don't get it.
felicity		He's impotent!
austin		Alright, easy.  Felicity and I were all set for some hump Olympics and I couldn't bat for six.
guru pitka		Oh, yes, I see.
austin		You have no idea what I'm saying, do you?
guru pitka		Not a word.
austin		Guru, I've lost my mojo.
guru pitka		Oh, mojo! You should have said so. Well, you've lost your mojo because your chakras are misaligned. You have lost love.
austin		Lost love? Oh, you mean Vanessa?
felicity		Who's Vanessa?
austin		She was an evil robot minion of Dr. Evil. I couldn't have loved her.
guru pitka		Denial ain't just a river in Egypt, buddy. You will only get your mojo back when you surround yourself with love.
austin		Oh, I get what you're saying now! He's talking about free love, baby! Tune in, turn on, and drop out!
guru pitka		I am talking about true love. You must stay and study until you are worthy.
austin		No way, man. The only way to surround yourself with love is to throw a swinging shin-dig! Yeah, baby, yeah!
fat bastard		First things first, where's your shitter? I've gotta bleepin, turtle head pokin' out.
fat bastard		I've got a lot of demons kickin' around in my noggin, but weight issues ain't one of them.
fat bastard		The name is Fat Bastard!  I'm the incorrect weight for my height and I was born out of wedlock, hence the moniker Fat Bastard. Hey, I'm not kiddin'. I've got a crap on deck that could choke a donkey.
fat bastard		Where's my  money?
fat bastard		Fine, you can take your !
fat bastard		 you!
fat bastard		Alright, here it is.
number two		Dr. Evil, I have some bad news. Austin Powers is back in the Sixties. One of our best assassins spotted him but he got away.
number two		There is another. Felicity Shagwell, CIA.
scott		I don't know, I was sitting around watching the tube and The Courtship of Eddie's Father came on Nick at Nite, you know, and I was just listening to that theme song--  Anyway it made me think that maybe we could try and work things out. You know, you are my Dad and I need you.
scott		 Nothing Darth.
scott		Nothing.  Rip-off!
scott		The Alan Parsons Project was a progressive rock band from 1982. Why don't you just name it Operation Wang Chung, ass?
number two		My God, Dr. Evil, you destroyed the Wihite House with no warning!
scott		Yeah, Codename: Thompson Twins was really impressive.
scott		I'm nineteen, I don't-
scott		You are so lame-
number two		Dr. Evil, what are we going to do about Powers?
fat bastard		It'll be my pleasure.
austin		This shag-in is gonna blow your mind, baby, yeah!
pregnant woman		Hey!
austin		You'll thank me later, baby.
austin		 Hey! Ricardo Monteblan, how are you?
ricardo		Hello, Austin! Balls, said the queen and the king laughed because he had too.
austin		 Crazy, man!
felicity		Let's split up and scope the scene.
austin		Don't do anything I wouldn't do- at least not without me.
austin		Oh, behave!
austin		 You're very exotic, baby. Do you have a little English in you?
chick		No.
austin		Would you like to?
london cop		Have you ever been picked up by the fuzz?
felicity		No, but I bet it really hurts.
austin		The Austin Powers Sexy Dictionary defines an Eskimo hooker as a frosty prosty.
eskimo		 I don't get it.
austin		Those are skin tight. How do you get into those pants, baby?
felicity		Well you can start by buying me a drink.
viking		You were great last night. By the way, I'm Thor.
felicity		You're Thor? I'm tho thor I can hardly thit.
austin		 Hello, I am Baron Von Firstinbed. Last night I had German-Chinese food. An hour later I was hungry- for power.
zeus guy		Oh puh-leez, why don't you take a handful of F-off pills?
austin		Did you hear about the contortionist who was engaged to be married?
felicity		Yeah, I heard she broke it off.
artie johnson		Verrrrry interesting- but shtupid!
felicity		Look at that.
austin		That's not a pretty sight. Who is he?
felicity		Until recently he worked security for the MOD, but we think he might be a double agent, possibly for Dr. Evil.
austin		How do you know?
felicity		We've noticed that his lifestyle has changed dramatically. He's made a lot of cash purchases, he's hanging out with foxes half his age, and he's becomes quite a fixture on the London party circuit.
austin		Who's the girl?
felicity		I don't know, but it looks like he's splitting.
felicity		I'll follow him. You see what you can get out of the girl. We'll rendezvous later.
austin		Hello, hello.
girl		Hello, Mr. Powers. Fab party.
austin		Who are you today, baby?
girl		Robin. Robin Swallows.
austin		Swallows? That's an interesting name. Are you English?
robin swallows		German, actually. My maiden name is Spitz.
austin		Well which is it, baby, Spitz or Swallows? Either way, it's a pleasure.
robin swallows		The pleasure is mine.
austin		Charmed, I'm sure.  I love shaking hands.
austin		 So, who was your friend?
robin swallows		His name is Fat Bastard.
austin		It suits him.
robin swallows		He's my lover.
austin		OK. Would you happen to know if he's in business with a man named Mr. Evil?
robin swallows		I don't know anyone named Dr. Evil.
austin		Really? I said Mister Evil. Austin does a smug take.
austin		Something to drink? Would you like a Mister Pepper?
robin swallows		Yes, I'd love a Doctor Pepper.
austin		Really? I said Mister Pepper.
robin swallows		You're a groovy boy, I'd like to strap you on sometime.
austin		Oh, behave!
fat bastard		...and I'll have a fried-prawn sandwich, with extra mayonnaise, two whole chickens, a kidney pie, a toad in the hole, bubble and squeak, bangers and mash, 3 orders of fish and chips, and... a Fresca. No ice.
felicity		I love a man with a large appetite.
fat bastard		And I love a woman with big ing.
austin		Can I ask you a question?
robin swallows		Yes.
austin		Thank you.
robin swallows		Well, what's the question?
austin		Oh, yes. Would you like to shag? Would you?
robin swallows		I'd love to, Mr. Powers, just come right... over... here.
austin		You're a bit of alright.
robin swallows		 Oedipus... use the revolver.
robin swallows		 Oedipus... use the machine gun.
robin swallows		Oedipus, Oedipus...
austin		Sorry baby, too late. He's as dead as vaudeville.
robin swallows		You can't win, Powers. Dr. Evil has your mojo and it's only a matter of time before he kills you and takes over the world.  Tell Fat Bastard I'll miss him...
fat bastard		I always get in' hungry after I get my end away!
felicity		I never would have thought that a man of such tremendous girth could be such a, um, creative and sensuous lover!
fat bastard		You want some chicken? I have more!
fat bastard		Frisky are we? Alright lets have another go!
president		Dr. Evil, what do you want?
president		Dr. Evil that's more than the entire
president		That much money simply doesn't exist. I don't think l00 billion is even a number. It's like saying I want a kajillion bajillion dollars.
president		What?
president		I'm sorry, I don't understand.
scott		It's 1969. That movie won't come out for another 30 years, ass.  They don't know what you're talking about.
president		But-
number two		Dr. Evil, one last thing. I-- oh.
felicity		Austin, tell me about the Nineties.
austin		You know I can't tell you details about the future, baby, it could alter history.
felicity		Not details, just what it's like. You know, what's the scene?  Where's it at?
austin		There've been a lot of advances in the Nineties, baby. The economy is stable, people take better care of their health concern for the environment is on the rise and, um, let's see, there's an entire television channel dedicated to golf.
felicity		Sounds awful.
austin		It's not so bad once you get used to it. The Nineties are about responsibility. You know, having respect for yourself and other people. I even got married.
felicity		You? Married? What about the sexual revolution?
austin		Well, it turns out there were some casualties, baby. Don't you think you'll ever get married?
felicity		No, not until I get a little more 'experience' under my belt.
austin		Oh, behave!
austin		 Oh my God!
felicity		 What is it! Is it Fat Bastard?
austin		No, written here on my hand, see?
austin		Says 'Oh my God!'
felicity		Austin, look.
austin		Felicity, I haven't had this much fun since I worked undercover in Amsterdam-- '66 I think it was.
felicity		1965, actually. You posed as a Dutch cheese expert to stop Dr.  Evil from poisoning the world's water supply.
felicity		I've studied your file, Austin. I want to be a trailblazer, just like you.  The Seventies are right around the corner. It's going to be a glorious time for fashion and music and technology-- it won't be long before every flying car has its own 8-track.
felicity		The CIA has always been a boy's club until now. Well move over, this chick's taking over.
austin		 Very impressive.
felicity		Austin, your voice!
austin		Yes, I think I'm coming down with something.
austin		I'll get some ice cream. Would you like some?
felicity		No thanks.
austin		 Could I have two scoops of Vanilla, please?
austin		 Yes, please.
austin		 I will, thank you.
austin		 Yes please.
austin		No, laryngitis.
austin		 Basil!
basil exposition		Hello, Austin. What's wrong with your voice?
austin		 I just had ice cream. Listen to me, I have dairy throat.  "Mary had a little lamb and it was always gruntin'. She tied it to a five bar gate and kicked it's little-
basil exposition		 Austin! Things are heating up, so I thought it best to contact you in disguise. Felicity, your plan worked. You and Austin track Fat Bastard back to Dr. Evil.
austin		But how can we track Fat Bastard?
felicity		I planted a homing device on him last night.
basil exposition		Yes, and we're starting to pick up the signal now.
austin		How did you get close enough to plant a homing device?
felicity		I shagged him, I shagged him rotten.
austin		You... him? Just like that?
felicity		Yes, Austin, we needed that information.
basil exposition		Well, thanks to your effort, Felicity, we now know that-
austin		 Did you use an elaborate set of pulleys? A block and tackle?
basil exposition		Anyway, you two follow the signal back to Dr. Evil's headquarters and then-
austin		 I just can't get my head around it, baby. You're so small and he's so ... not small. The sheer mechanics of it are mindboggling!
basil exposition		Never mind, Austin, you two have work to do. You must find Dr.  Evil.
austin		I got it! A Chinese basket with a counter-weighted ballast.  That's how you did it, right?
felicity		Austin, it almost sounds like you're jealous.
austin		Who, me? That's not possible, baby!  is it?
austin		Get down!
felicity		We're obviously on the right track.  It looks like Fat Bastard is-on an island in the middle of the ocean.
austin		According to the readings, Dr. Evil's headquarters is over the next ridge.
felicity		Can I have a look?
austin		Sure.
felicity		Question is, how do we get in?
austin		 Mmmmmmm...mmmmm...
felicity		Austin, did you hear me?
austin		I seem to be stuck in your dirty pillows.
felicity		Where are the topographical maps that Basil drew up?
austin		I think they're in the tent.
felicity		Here we go, one hammer. It's amazing how much this duffel bag will hold.
number two		Dr. Evil, that was fantastic, but I do have some bad news.  Powers' is on the island.
number two		Don't worry, Dr. Evil, we can get to him by using the girl.
number two		I have the perfect weapon. Frau?
frau		 Bring in the He-Bots!
number two		Dr. Evil, may I present the He-Bots. What kind of woman could resist these perfect specimens of masculinity? Their clothes are stylish, their posture is ramrod straight, and their buttocks are tight, like tigers. And, each He-Bot is armed with a secret weapon.
fat bastard		Christ Almighty, it smells terrible in here.
fat bastard		Great, now it smells like someone took a shite in a pine tree.
number two		Dr. Evil, the laser has been loaded into the rocket. You're ready for launch.
austin		We meet again, Dr. Evil.
austin		Dr. Evil your plan will never--
austin		My mojo!
felicity		Dr. Evil, do you like real estate?
felicity		Now you've got a couple of achers.
austin		 I don't care if he is evil, you don't give a man a shot in the pills. It's just not cricket, baby.
scott		She just hoofed you in the sack and you're going to leave them alone in a jail cell with one inept guard? They'll escape, dipshit. You do this every time!
scott		You don't own me!
fat bastard		What about Powers?
number two		Five, four, three...
operator		Colonel, you better have a look at this radar.
colonel		What is it, son?
operator		I don't know, sir, but it looks like a giant--
pilot		Dick!
pilot		Take a look out of starboard.
man		Pecker!
woman		Where?
man		Over there. A rare red-billed woodpecker!  What sort of bird is that? Oh goodness, it's not a bird, it's-
sergeant		Privates! We have reports of an Unidentified Flying Object. It has a long, smooth shaft, complete with-
umpire		Two balls! No strikes.  What is that? It looks just like an enormous--
colonel		Johnson!
radar operator		Yes, sir?
colonel		Get on the horn to British Intelligence and let them know about this.
felicity		How are we going to get out of here?
austin		Why don't you just shag Fat Bastard again?
felicity		 Austin, that is it! I don't know what happened to you in the Nineties, but I'm still here, in the Sixties, and I still swing! Don't try to lay your hang-ups on me just because you lost your mojo! That one hurts.
austin		Ouch, baby, very ouch. I'm wounded.
felicity		I'm sorry, Austin, that was a cheap shot.
austin		No, baby, you're right. I was wrong to judge you. I guess I am... jealous.
felicity		But the Austin Powers I knew was wild and crazy and free. He could never be jealous.
austin		That Austin is gone. I've changed. I knew someone, not long ago, a very special woman. She taught me that life isn't about jumping into the sack with whoever comes along, it's about caring and responsibility. And while it is true she turned out to be an evil robot minion of Dr. Evil, I suppose I really did... love her.
felicity		Was that your wife?
austin		Yes, Vanessa.
felicity		Listen, Austin, I can't pretend to understand everything you've gone through, but I trust you. I'll make you a deal: if we get out of here alive, I'll give monogamy a try.
austin		With me?
felicity		Yes, silly.
austin		Groovy, baby!
felicity		We need to lure the guard inside and get his key.
austin		Alright, what if I pretend to be desperately ill with food poisoning? The guard, drawn by my cries of pain, will come to investigate.  Meanwhile, you dig a pit and line it with makeshift punji sticks made from sharpened toothbrushes. The guard falls in, Bob's your uncle, and we've got the key.  What do you think?
felicity		That might work, but how about this?
felicity		 What do you think of these, my man?
guard		Mommy...
felicity		 It's very hot in here, don't you think?
felicity		 It's very hot in here, don't you think?
felicity		 Austin!
austin		 I'm very firmly wedged.
felicity		If you want something done...
austin		Almost... got it!
austin		Let's go get my mojo!
felicity		Where's your mojo, Austin?
austin		I'm not sure.
austin		Watch out, baby, He-Bots!
austin		I can't fight them without my mojo.
felicity		Who said anything about fighting?
austin		Smashing, Felicity, you were making me very horny, man! Extremely randy, indeed!
austin		Fat Bastard!
fat bastard		Looking for this, Mr. Powers?
austin		Give me back my mojo, Fat Bastard!
fat bastard		I give the orders,  for brains. Guards, take them back to their cells.
felicity		Hold on, let me ask you one question.
fat bastard		Alright, I guess I owe you that much for a night of carnal ecstasy.
felicity		Are you happy?
fat bastard		What kind of stupid ass question is that? I'm in' rich and I'm up to my tits in clean stinky.
felicity		You didn't answer my question, are you happy?
fat bastard		It's about my girth isn't it? Sure I could lose a few pounds, but I could shiva git!
felicity		Are you happy?
fat bastard		Of course I'm not happy. Look at me, I'm a big fat slob. I've got bigger titties than you do! I've got more  I'm caught in a cycle and there's no escape!
austin		Maybe inside that Fat Bastard there's a thin bastard, trying to get out
fat bastard		Maybe there's big crap inside me trying to get out, jack-ass!  Enough of your in' fork?  I'm so weak, I hate myself. I'm for shite. Here, take the mojo.
fat bastard		I appreciate you trying to reach me, no one can do it for me, I know this now.  There's a hole in my soul that food won't fill. This is the beginning of a new me. I'm gonna go to the gym everyday. If you'll excuse me, there's someone I have to get in touch with and forgive... myself.  It's a long road ahead.
austin		Hold on, I have something very important to do.
felicity		How do you feel?
austin		Sound as a pound, my spuds are boiling. Fancy a shag?
felicity		Austin, we don't have time.
austin		C'mon, luv, let's hop on the good foot and do the bad thing!
felicity		Dr. Evil's taken his laser to the moon. The world is in danger.
austin		Right, the moon. I think I know someone who can give us a lift.
austin		Gor blimey, you'd have to be a rocket scientist to figure this stuff out.
astronaut		I am a rocket scientist.
austin		Felicity, if you get frightened, just hold my hand.
felicity		 Yaaaaa-hoooo!
basil exposition		Austin, you have achieved lunar orbit. How was that lift-off?
austin		To be honest it was terrifying. It felt like sitting on top of a bomb. As I punched through the atmosphere, I said 'Oh my God!' and I soiled myself.
basil exposition		Happens all the time in that situation.
austin		No, I mean I soiled myself just now when I said oh 'my God!'
felicity		Basil, it was amazing!
basil exposition		Prepare for moon landing. We only have one hour until Dr. Evil fires the laser!
austin		This is one small step for man, but a giant step for shagging.  Can you imagine it, baby, weightless? The permutations are mind-boggling.
felicity		Naughty boy!
austin		God Save the Queen.
mission commander		The Queen? This is an American show, goddammit. Let's roll that footage we shot last week in the studio.
president		What? I can't hear you.
president		I'm sorry, I just can't hear you.
president		Better.
president		Sorry! I just can't- I think it's that alarm.
president		Please Dr. Evil, be reasonable. That's more money than is in the entire Federal Treasury!
president		I still don't know what that means. I can't show you the money because we don't have the money.
basil exposition		Gentlemen, Austin has landed on the moon. We'll soon know whether he has succeeded or whether the world will be destroyed!
felicity		Let's find Dr. Evil.
austin		Shhh...
felicity		Austin, you've done it! You got Dr. Evil!
austin		Of course I did, baby, I got my mojo working overtime.
felicity		Austin, I'm going ahead. Cover my rear!
austin		Oh, behave!
austin		Poor little bugger. He's so small, he's like a dog or something.
austin		Poor little bugger.  Felicity, be careful! Dr. Evil is still alive! Felicity?
austin		 Alright, slap-head, turn around. Slowly.
austin		Felicity!  What have you done to her?
felicity		 Don't worry about me Austin. You've got to save the world!
austin		I've got my mojo back, man, I can do both.
austin		Hands off my joystick, baby.
austin		See, Dr. Evil I told you I could do both.
austin		Noooooo!
austin		Felicity! Felicity. Wake up! Wake up! Please God, don't take her away.
austin		Felicity, you have to understand, I thought I had my mojo back.  This isn't fair.
austin		I love you, Felicity! I know I couldn't say it before, but I really do love you!  Dr. Evil, I'll kill him!
austin		I have to commandeer this vehicle.  Hey, aren't you Hutch?
david soul		I'm Hutch.
james cameron		I'm king of the world!
austin		I'm going to kill you, you bastard!
austin		Really?
austin		How so?
austin		I didn't think that Felicity was going to die, man.
austin		Felicity!
austin		I choose love, baby.
austin		Felicity, I love you.
felicity		 But I thought-
austin		That was another place and another time, baby.
felicity		 Can't. Breathe.
austin		Sorry, baby, I got a little over- stimulated.
austin		What do we do?
felicity		Use your mojo!
austin		I don't have it!
felicity		Trust me, you do!
basil exposition		He did it, he saved the world!  Of course, I thought he might.
felicity		Austin, you did it!
austin		Uh-oh.  I think I just got my mojo back. Really.
felicity		Austin, you had it all along. No one can take your, mojo away from you!
radar operator		Sir, you better have a look at this radar.
colonel		What is it?
radar operator		don't know, sir. It's hard to describe.  It's... it's-
doctor		Just a little prick!
doctor		All done!  Good lord, what is that? If I didn't know better I'd say it's a-
chinese teacher		Wang!
chinese teacher		Pay attention!
chinese student		I'm sorry, Comrade Teacher.  was distracted by that enormous flying-
rachel hunter		Rod?
rod stewart		Yes, Rachel?
rachel hunter		 What's that?
rod stewart		 It looks like a giant-
basil exposition		Peters!
captain peters		Yes, sir?
basil exposition		Any word from Austin?
captain peters		We've picked up his signal, but the lunar base seems to self-destructing.
basil exposition		 Austin, if you can hear me, use the time portal! There's no time to get to the lunar module! Use the time portal!
felicity		Austin, you have to get to the time portal!
austin		Come with me, Felicity! It's the only way out!
felicity		Austin, will I fit in the Nineties?
austin		If I did, anyone can. Let's go, baby!
felicity		Sorry!
austin		Don't worry baby it takes some getting used to. Let me ask you Felicity, do you feel any side effects from the time travel?
felicity		I'm as healthy as a horse.
austin		I love you, Felicity.
felicity		And I love you.
austin		Do you want to get married?
felicity		Absolutely not.
austin		Thank God.
****Dialogues from script :Authors_Anonymous.txt****

july 14 2012		 REVISED
alan		We thought this was going to be a reality series.
colette		You know, like the Kardashians.
alan		Oh. Really? A documentary? This is going to be a documentary about our writing group?
colette		The whole group. Not just us, right? Not that it should be just about us...
alan		No.
colette		So this is going to be like--like what I saw the other night on cable? About bees mating.
alan		Or that, um, that one about the Holocaust.
colette		--Powerful.
alan		Powerful.   Yes. Powerful.
colette		We love documentaries.
alan		We do.
alan		Well?   Comments?
hannah		I really like the way Yuri is developing, Colette.
colette		You do?
john		Well, if you ask John K. Butzin...
alan		I was bothered by that, too. Why would Natasha betray a reliable, dependable husband for a washed-up young punk?
colette		Oh.   Well...um...um...
alan		Poodles.     It's OK.
colette		No. It's not OK. I still can't explain Natasha's motive. What's the use? I'm not a writer.
william		Whoa. Whoa. Time out. The dude's good in bed. Trust me, that's all the motive she needs.
john		Roger that. Torpedo Chapter Three. Blow it up. Get the focus back on this broad--Natasha.
henry		--Yes. I was thinking the same thing.
hannah		Make it clear that Natasha wants to be closer...
colette		Who wants coffee?
william		Lend me ten bucks? I'm having cash flow issues.
henry		Sure.
william		Thanks, bro'. You're the best.
hannah		What do you think? On or off? Do they make me look smarter? I need a new pair.
william		What do you want to know about me?
hannah		I've always had this knack for telling stories. Ever since I was a kid.
maureen		She's a natural.
hannah		Moved here. Took a couple writing classes. Decided to go for it. 24/7. Total dedication to my craft. The writing always comes first. My latest effort is called Sleeping on the Moon. It's about rejection. And pain. Not really about the moon itself. More of a...
maureen		Metaphor.
hannah		Right.
william		So. LA? I'm here because of Bukowski. Charles Bukowski. Greatest writer ever. Period.
hannah		My favorite writer? Favorite writer. Favorite writer...
maureen		Jane Austen.
hannah		That's the one. I hear she's good. But my favorite writer? Let me think about that a bit, OK?
john		Everything John K. Butzin knows about writing comes down to two simple words: Tom Clancy. Yes, sir. Tom Clancy. The man's a genius. Does his research. All those nitty-gritty technical details. Now that's writing! John K. Butzin has one agent very interested in Roaring Lion. And a publisher up in Oxnard is looking at it as we speak. Plus a certain cousin's best friend has a neighbor who has an in with Clint Eastwood, so Hollywood might be calling soon. Don't know how the other members of the writing group will handle all this success by one person. They better not be pussies.
alan		Well, I'm an optometrist in Glendale.
colette		And I write full-time.
alan		Our last name's Mooney. You could call us Mooneys. We get that joke all the time.
colette		Alan likes to tease.
alan		Colette, here, is the real writer. I'm more of an idea guy. I come up with great ideas, but don't always follow through. I'll show you.
colette		This is where I come for inspiration. I believe a writer must have quiet and solitude. I'll meditate. Write in my journal. Set out my creative path for the day. This is my Walden Pond.
colette		Oh, this? I keep Oprah out here for luck. She's done so much to help writers. I know I'm going to be on her television show one day. I just know it.
henry		Tonight's the night. I'm going to ask Hannah out.
alan		I'm the group leader. After all, getting together was my idea. They're all my patients. That's how we met. First one published gets a free eye exam.
john		 How come we never chow down at your place?
william		This is my place. Close to the working people.
henry		Where's Hannah? Anyone know?
alan		Time to get started.
henry		Shouldn't we wait for Hannah?
william		Let's go, people. I'm ready to read.
alan		William's right. We'll start. She'll show up.
colette		William, aren't these the same pages you read last time?
william		Nope, they're different.
john		They look the same.
william		They're different. I changed a word.
henry		One word?
colette		That's it?
william		Writing is rewriting, Colette. Bukowski said, "Write five words. Rewrite seven."
henry		No. Dorothy Parker said that.
john		One word?    Jesus H. Christ.
william		It's my creative vision, John.
alan		 Which we are here to support. This is William's decision.
william		Let me just read. See if you can pick out the word. Tell me if it's better, or worse.
john		 One goddamn word.
henry		I wonder what happened to Hannah.
alan		It's not like her to miss.
hannah		I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry for missing the meeting.
john		What happened? Your car break down?
alan		You oversleep?
colette		Maureen. Is Maureen OK?
william		People. C'mon. Look at her. That glow. Hannah met a guy. She got laid.
hannah		As a matter of fact, I did meet a guy.
william		Told ya.
hannah		His name's Brian.
william		Bet Brian wants more than that.
colette		That's so great, Hannah.
john		I salute you, young lady.
alan		Yes.   Fantastic. Fanntasstic.
alan		 To Hannah!
hannah		Thank you. But I just want to remind everyone that we're all in this together. I couldn't have come this far without the group.
alan		 All for one . . . .
hannah		I'm merely the first one to get signed. But we're all going to have an agent soon.
john		Well, as a matter of fact, there's an agent in Santa Monica very interested in John K. Butzin. He's reading the manuscript as we speak.
william		 Hey, can you lend me ten bucks?
henry		Sure.
william		Thanks, bro'. You're the best.
alan		Congratulations again, Hannah!
colette		Yes, yes.   Way to go, Hannah!
hannah		 Thank you! 'Night.
alan		Well, Hannah's got an agent.
colette		She must have slept with him.
alan		Of course she did.
henry		I'm so proud of you, Hannah.
hannah		Your turn will come, Henry. You're a better writer than I am. So much better. You went to college.
henry		Listen. Maybe some afternoon we could go for a drive. There are some special places I'd like to show you.
hannah		Sure. I can't believe I've lived out here four years and haven't seen --
henry		What?
hannah		Four years. It's been four years since I moved here. And now I have an agent. It's the number four again. My lucky number. I should have known this was going to happen.
henry		There is no one more deserving.
hannah		I'm going to dedicate my novel to you.
henry		I'm happy for Hannah. 
colette		My novel is called Nyet, Not Yet. It's about a Russian woman who comes to this country in search of love. It was inspired by a story I heard from one of my massage clients, Yuri. Yes, it's true--I used to do massage. In fact, that's how I met Alan, though I certainly didn't give him the kind of massage he really wanted. At least not the first time.
hannah		Have I thought of my favorite author yet? No. Not yet. There are so many, you know?
colette		Hi...Hi...Hello everyone. I was just in the neighborhood and--
hannah		Colette.    What a lovely surprise!
colette		Oh. It's nothing. I just had to say "Congratulations" to my new favorite author.
maureen		 "For Poodles...Now may we have sex again? Love, Alan."
hannah		So sweet of you, Colette.
colette		My pleasure.     Say, Hannah...about your agent?
hannah		Gee.   I don't really know.
colette		Think you could ask?
hannah		I guess so.     Maybe.
colette		Because if he is...
hannah		Let's talk about this at group meeting, OK?
colette		Oh. Of course. Of course. Absolutely.
maureen		Colette Mooney. My, that woman is something else.
hannah		 Colette Mooney. C-o-l-e-t-t-e M-o-o- n-e...
hannah		Thanks for seeing me today, Alan.
alan		No problemo. Let's get you some new eye wear.
hannah		Something that makes me look smart.
henry		You're already smart, Hannah.
alan		How about...
hannah		Mmmmmmm.
alan		Excuse me.   One sec.
hannah		Of course he would.
alan		You know this great idea for a novel hit me this morning. It's called Unleashed.
hannah		Could be a winner.
henry		You look great, Hannah.
alan		Question: You think your agent might be interested in this idea? Does he have a dog?
hannah		 Oh. I don't know--
alan		How about a cat? It could be a cat.
hannah		Um. Sure.   Probably could be.
alan		Think about mentioning it to your agent, OK? Unleashed. Dog -- or cat -- becomes human.
henry		I'll help you develop the idea, Alan.
john		Meet someone very s-p-e-c-i-e-l. Here with us today all the way from...
sigrid		Germany.
john		Oh! That accent! Found her    working at the hardware store. Went   in for a drill bit. Came out with a    prime candidate for Mrs. John K.    Butzin.
sigrid		 Apologies. American only. I come from Dusseldorf, yes? Came to this great country 90 years ago -- no, 90 days ago. Apologies. Took job in store as cleaning lady. Promoted to cashier. Now assistant, assistant manager.
sigrid		This my 'Wall of America' tribute, yes? To my new country. And in the center, of course, the three men I admire most in America.
colette		I know this is a rejection letter. I can't open this. I can't be rejected today. I take rejection so personally.
alan		I bet it's good news.
colette		"Sorry. Not interested." I knew it. How can such a big rejection come from such a small piece of paper?
hannah		 Oh my god! Oh my god! Oh my god!
maureen		What's he saying?
hannah		He sold my novel.
henry		What?
hannah		 Brian sold Sleeping on the Moon!
maureen		Oh my god!   Oh my god!
hannah		 Yes, Brian. I will. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I will. Promise. Thank you!
henry		You did it, Hannah!   You did it!
maureen		I'm so proud of you, dear!
hannah		Thank you.
henry		We need to tell the group!
hannah		The group. Oh, dear. The group. No, no, I can't tell them about this.
henry		Why not?
hannah		Oh.
henry		Suppose I tell them? They could hear the news from me.
hannah		Thank you, my friend. I can always depend on you, can't I?
john		That's great for Hannah, her little book deal, and all. But John K. Butzin has some news to announce, as well.
william		Hannah's just lucky. That's all.
henry		Here she comes!
hannah		Ohhhhhh.    For me? You shouldn't have.
william		Way to go, Ms. Published Author!
alan		We're all jealous, Hannah. Just teasing.
colette		No.   Seriously. We're all jealous.
hannah		You're all making too much of a spectacle here.
henry		When will your book come out, Hannah?
hannah		A year.    Takes about a year.
william		So how much did you get?
alan		Don't ask her that.
william		 Why not? How much did you get?
hannah		I did OK. Leave it at that. What's important is that I owe this success to all of you. I would be lost without this writing group.
john		 I don't know if anyone heard.
alan		U.R. the Publisher?
henry		They self-publish. E-books. Print on Demand.
john		That's right, Obert. But I'll have my book in two weeks. None of this B.S. waiting around. John K. Butzin will be a published author. And be published first.
hannah		 Well, John. Congratulations.
alan		My, two published authors in the group. The rest of us are going to have to catch up.
john		 Gunner stared out over the bleak horizon, seeing one dead Viet Cong after another lay scattered on the bloody hillside. He had won this time, but Gunner knew Charlie would be back in the morning. By god, he would be ready. So would his M60 General Purpose Machine Gun and Mark 2 Fragmentation/Hand Rifle Grenade.
alan		OK, John. Nicely done. Let's get some feedback.
henry		Well.   In terms of the characters--
john		 --Hold on, Obert. I wanna hear from her.
alan		We'll hear from everybody.
john		I don't want to hear from everybody. She has a book coming out. John K. Butzin has a book coming out. I want to hear from Hannah, author to author.
william		Oh, screw you.
alan		This is really going against the spirit of the group, John. Everyone's opinion is valid.
john		Hers is more valid. What'd you think, Hannah? Tell me.
hannah		I-I . . .
william		 Going outside for a smoke.
colette		I'll go talk to him.
alan		Let's take a fifteen minute break, shall we?
colette		I want you to meet someone special. This is my spiritual adviser. Doctor Xiroman has taken a vow of silence for one full year to protest climate change. What an amazing man. Dr. Xiroman is going to cleanse the air of all this rejection.
william		See those jokers back there? 
henry		"...such as I have never found in any other person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again..."
alan		There's been one rule in this house. Whatever Colette wants, Colette gets.
colette		Thank you, Alan.
alan		She wants a Mercedes? No problem. Credit cards? How many? Her own business? Done. An agent?
colette		 --Very well-known. He's so known.
alan		Exactly. Well, guess who is coming in tomorrow to see Dr. Alan Mooney for an eye examination and new glasses?
colette		I love you, Poodles.
alan		Love you more, Poodles.
alan		Dr. Alan Mooney.
david		 Let me call you back.
alan		I know. Big fan. Big fan.
david		Really?
alan		Just act natural.
alan		Great. Let's start out with a basic eye examination.
david		 X7K6AC
alan		Very good, David. Would you like to try for what's behind Door Number Three? Try this one, please.
david		 E2PH8S
alan		20/25. Looking good, David. But anyone can identify simple letters and numbers. Let's see how you do reading a more challenging text.
david		Yes.
alan		Good. Read me the first paragraph, please.
david		 Natasha, the Russian peasant, dressed oh-so-slowly, consumed totally, completely, absolutely, by endless thoughts of Yuri.
alan		Oh. Very nice. Very nice. Now the next paragraph, please.
david		 "I never, ever thought I could feel this way," Natasha said excitedly. "Nor could I," Yuri said happily, his body dripping with enormous beads of sweat.
alan		Man. Wow. Gee. Isn't that great writing? My wife Colette wrote that. The patients just love reading her stuff. It's from her new novel, Nyet, Not Yet.
colette		Hi, honey.   So sorry to intrude.
alan		Colette? Gee, this is an incredible coincidence. We were just talking about you. And here you are!
colette		 Hello.
alan		Oh, where are my manners? Colette, this is David Keller. David, this is my wife, Colette Mooney. The writer.
david		Hi.
colette		Pleasure to meet you, David.
alan		Actually, Colette wrote this beautiful prose you've been reading, David. Honey, I can't believe this coincidence.
colette		Well, I was just dropping off--
alan		 Oh, of course. Thanks for bringing it by. Say, honey, David's been reading that first page of yours. You don't happen to have any more of that opening chapter, do you?
colette		As a matter of fact, I think I do. I think I do.
alan		Say, how about that?
david		How about that?
colette		That went very well.
alan		Oh, yes, Poodles.    Very.
colette		Though David Keller did seem in a hurry to leave.
alan		The sooner he can begin reading.
colette		I bet he calls tomorrow with an offer.
alan		I bet he calls tonight.
hannah		Henry.     This is good.   So good.
henry		Really?
hannah		I'm dying to know more about Scott and Christy. What great characters.
henry		Yeah. Sure wish I knew what was going to happen with them.
hannah		You'll figure it out, Henry. It'll pass. Focus on your writing. No distractions. The writing comes first.
henry		Say, um, remember I offered to drive you around and show you a couple special places?
hannah		Who lives here?
henry		Richard Benedict.
hannah		Oh.   That writer you like?
henry		Like? No. It's much more than that. Wow. He...He...
hannah		Can't say I've read his stuff.     Nice house, though.
henry		Here we are.
hannah		Fitzgerald? He's the one who shot himself, right?
henry		No. Fitzgerald. F. Scott Fitzgerald. He wrote The Great Gatsby.
hannah		 I've never read it.
henry		What?
hannah		 Could you turn that off for a few minutes, please?
henry		You know they can't. What's wrong?
hannah		I've never read The Great Gatsby.
henry		You're kidding.
hannah		Henry. I never went to college. I've heard of Hemingway. A little. Fitzgerald. Somewhere. But I don't have your education. Your smarts. I haven't read all these great novels. My stories come from my heart.
henry		Gatsby is about social position and the American Dream and . . .
hannah		And it's your favorite?
henry		Here. Take my copy.
john		 Yes. I'm still holding. Where are you again? New Dehli? Oh.
eudora		Great book.    Classic.
hannah		Oh, I needed this break. Thank you, Henry.
henry		You're welcome.
hannah		It's just that I'm starting to feel the pressure, you know? There is so much riding on this first book.
henry		Don't be silly. Sleeping on the Moon will hit the bestseller list. You'll be the toast of the literary world. And I'll come over to Beverly Hills and deliver a pizza to you.
hannah		Beverly Hills, ah...
henry		Definitely.
hannah		What a dear, sweet friend you are.
alan		Alright.   Whose turn is it to read? Henry?
henry		Oh. Um. Someone else go. I don't have anything new ready tonight.
colette		It's been weeks, Henry.
henry		I know.   Still can't focus.
john		Don't be a pussy, Obert. Get writing. Complete the mission.
hannah		Writer's block can be very serious, John.
william		What's so hard, bro'? I mean, you've got Scott and Christy. Two friends. Tell their story.
henry		That's the problem. I think the story's changing.
alan		Changing?   How so?
henry		Lately I'm feeling something much deeper, much richer. Scott and Christy, um, growing closer.
colette		Christy's a beautiful, wealthy author in Beverly Hills. How close can they get?
henry		Follow me. Something happens. Christy has an epiphany. She-She realizes her feelings run much deeper now for Scott.
william		Nah.    Don't buy it.
john		They're friends. Why muck it up? Don't put 'em in the same foxhole.
colette		Is this Scott wanting to go beyond the friendship? There's no way Christy would suggest it. What do you think, Hannah?
alan		Yes. Hannah, what do you think?
hannah		Gee, I-I guess...I really never thought of them that way.
henry		Never?
hannah		No. It's always been a friendship.
henry		You don't see anything possibly happening between them?
hannah		No.    Friends. Nothing more.
william		Exactly.
hannah		I'd be uncomfortable with any changes in the relationship.
henry		OK. Thanks, everyone. I'll try to have something on paper next time.
john		Remember, Obert. Complete the mission.
william		 Got a sec?
hannah		How much?
william		Hey, I just figured, you know. You got that big advance. Help out a fellow writer. I'm good for it, Hannah.
hannah		Sorry. It's bad luck to loan money.
william		OK, then, just give it to me.
colette		How much do you need?
john		This is a big moment. Roaring Lion has been posted on Amazon.com. Now all books. Your fiction. Your nonfiction. They're ranked on Amazon by sales. Obviously everyone wants to be number one. They say a book is selling well on Amazon if it's in the top 5000. Time to run it up the flag pole. Sigrid?
sigrid		 2,472,899 . . .
hannah		How am I doing? OK. Sort of. Brian called. Looks like there's real interest in movie rights for Sleeping on the Moon. Yeah, thanks.
maureen		Conundrum.
hannah		That's it.    I'm in one.
hannah		 "Please come home, Michael." "Why would you want to marry me, Kyra? I barely graduated high school." "Michael, I don't care about some silly college degree. You're the most intelligent person I've ever known. You are my shining star."
alan		OK.   Comments. Anyone?
hannah		I value your feedback.    We're all in this together, right?
colette		Oh...Gee...Hannah. What? I mean, you're being published. This is being published.
hannah		But my editor wants rewrites.      Am I on track?
alan		Of course you are, Hannah.
william		You got the deal. You got the check. First one to be published.
alan		I think what I'm hearing from the group is...is...you're fine. We all love it. Nothing here to critique. You don't need us--well, it's not that you don't need us, but, you know...
hannah		What do you think, Henry?
henry		Yes. Actually, it is really good, but there are a couple things--little things--I'd point out. For example--
john		Holy Douglas MacArthur --
alan		Idea for novel. Perhaps screenplay. The Amazing Doctor Eckleburg. An eye doctor turned crime fighter. Ladies man.
alan		William?
william		Hey.   Alan.
henry		Hannah's avoiding me. She doesn't respond to emails or voice messages. She's "busy." Always an excuse.
henry		Things have definitely changed between us. I did get to go to her place for dinner last night.
colette		Yes. You noticed. I replaced the photo. I may be replacing other things around here soon...I was just using William...for research.
john		This is going to be a great day for John K. Butzin. Yes, sir. First official book signing.
sigrid		More than a few books. Many, many books, Ja?
john		Ja, my Strudel. Many books.
sigrid		 Attention shoppers. Famous author, Mr. John K. Bootzin, signing new best seller. Up front of store. John K. Bootzin. Also, special today in plumbing department. Ballcocks. Two for one. All customers guaranteed will be satisfied. Ja.
john		Sorry, Strudel. Seem to be shooting blanks today.
alan		Author!    Author!
john		Hey-Hey. The cavalry's arrived. Look who's here.
sigrid		Hello, everyone!
hannah		Wouldn't miss your signing, John.
colette		Smile, John!
henry		Congratulations, John.
john		Thanks, Obert. Where's the Bukowski wannabe?
hannah		William said he'd meet us here.
john		What a turd.     Never liked that punk anyway.
alan		Maybe he's still at our house.
colette		Maybe he is.     Maybe I should go see.
alan		Maybe you should.
henry		This is in Chinese.
sigrid		International edition!
all		 Oh...
john		Know what the hardware store manager said? He said today was their most successful book signing. Ever.
sigrid		Ja...
john		Ten books. But there are now at least ten homes in California where folks have books by Melville. Hemingway. Clancy. And now Butzin. It's a humbling thought.
alan		I've made an important decision as group leader. I've decided to ask William to leave the group. Now it has absolutely nothing to do with that incident at our house. It has nothing to do with the fact that I'm now sleeping in the guest room. But let's face it--the kid's a slacker. No contribution to the group. Zero. Zip. Nada. I'm sure he'll be fine with it.
alan		There's no need to get so upset.
william		Fine. I was going to quit anyway. Leave this bunch of losers.
alan		Just ignore him.
william		Colette, Colette, my pet. News Flash for you: Oprah's not calling--unless she needs a massage. Get real!
john		Oprah?   She's not on TV anymore.
colette		I know that.
william		The great Henry O. Man, you got the gift, bro'. But your head is up your ass over poor, sweet, successful Hannah here.
henry		 That's enough.
william		I don't need any of you. I don't need any of your pointless, pedestrian feedback. I'm a writer.
john		You've got goddamn three pages.
william		They're a great three pages! You just don't appreciate my dedication.
hannah		You're a pretend writer, William.
henry		She's right. You act the part. You like the lifestyle. You hit on women. You quote Bukowski. But Bukowski did the work. Each and every day he wrote. That's your problem, William. You don't do the work.
william		I don't do the work? Man, that sounds frickin' hilarious coming from you. When's the last time you wrote anything?
alan		Not the sign!
alan		Idea for novel. Jealous husband murders his tramp-of-a-wife and buries her chopped-up body in the back yard.
henry		 Mr. Benedict, I just want to thank you. No. You've inspired my writing-- No. Hi. I'm Henry. I just think you're the greatest...
colette		Let me tell you something, Henry.
john		Nope. Not going to see Richard whatever-his-name-is. John K. Butzin, author, doesn't need to stand in line anymore. No, sir. This soon- to-be best-selling writer is spending every minute, every dollar, on promoting Roaring Lion.
sigrid		 1,644,973 . . .
john		Wow. Look how far I've moved up already.
alan		He's older than I thought.
hannah		I've never seen him before.
henry		 Pleasure to meet you. No. Honor to meet you. He She They is my favorite novel.
clerk		Next, please.
richard		 What?!
clerk		 Sir?
richard		 Absolutely not! I'll sue that bastard first...
alan		We need to move, Henry.
colette		Hi there.
richard		 Damn it! That simply won't--
hannah		Hello.
henry		So what did he say?
hannah		Who?
henry		Who!?!? Richard Benedict. You know, the guy who just held up the line for five minutes talking to you?
alan		 Ten. It was closer to ten minutes.
hannah		I don't know. We just talked.
henry		He sure liked you.
hannah		We just talked, Henry. I mentioned my book. He started asking about it. Writer to writer. No big deal.
henry		No big deal? Talking to Richard Benedict. No big deal!
alan		You gave him your phone number.
hannah		Look, a guy like that reads more books in a week than I ever have. Why would he bother call--
colette		Unbelievable.
hannah		 Coffee? Oh, God. I don't know, Richard. I really appreciate the invitation, but--
alan		Amazing.
colette		This isn't fair. This just isn't fair.
hannah		What?
colette		First, you get an agent. Then you sell your book. Then the big movie deal.
alan		Please don't.
colette		No. This isn't fair. And now Richard Benedict wants to have coffee with you? All this is happening to you. And only you. Isn't there anything -- I don't know--some kind of cosmic creative crumb for the rest of us to nibble on?
hannah		I don't like what you're suggesting, Colette. You know how hard I work. How devoted I am. And I have been totally supportive of your writing. I've encouraged you all along.
colette		You wouldn't introduce me to your agent.
hannah		Brian didn't want to meet you. I asked.
alan		Hannah has earned her success.
colette		Butt out Mr. Idea Man.
alan		Hannah is a writer. She devotes herself one hundred percent to writing. Not one hundred percent to sleeping with writers.
henry		Why don't you two just go on ahead?
colette		It's not fair that she be the only one.
henry		Go.
alan		C'mon.    Let's go.
colette		13! 13!    13!     13!
colette		I know. I'm a shit for exploding at Hannah, aren't I?
hannah		Your writer's block?
henry		Yeah.
hannah		It's because your focus is always on everything else. Gatsby. Fitzgerald. Me.
john		Wow! All the books sold at the hardware store?
sigrid		Ja.   Every one.
john		Didn't I tell you, Strudel?   Write it and they will read.
sigrid		Bye.   Bye.
colette		I have to see Ms. Piper. We just need five minutes. 1-2-3-4-5 minutes of her time.
colette		Ms. Piper?   Ms. Piper?
lois		Dr. Xiroman. I can't believe you're here. How lovely to see you again.
lois		 Look at my desk, Dr. Xiroman. Look at all this. Do you know what it is? Crap. It's all crap. Crap. Crap. Crap. I hate my job. I hate my life.
colette		 What?
lois		Of course. Dr. Xiroman, you should write a book. This could be a whole series.
colette		But--
lois		--It's perfect! Television. Your own blog. Personal appearances.
colette		But--
lois		Getting from Xiro to One by Doctor Xiroman. Oh, I like that.
colette		But--
lois		--In fact, as long as you're here today, why don't we just get you under contract? I know just who to call in New York.
colette		But--But.   What about me?
henry		Shit!
richard		You're late, Pizza Boy.
henry		 They're with me. Your total comes to nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents.
richard		Babe, I need a single.
woman's voice		Coming!
hannah		Here you--
henry		No distractions. The writing comes first.
hannah		He's making me a better writer.
henry		Yeah.    I bet he is.
hannah		Henry.    Don't.
henry		No, No. This could be quite educational. How about Native Son? Catch-22?
hannah		Why isn't it enough that I'm your friend?
henry		Lord of the Flies? Portnoy's Complaint? Do you know any author? Harry Potter--You must know Harry Potter.
hannah		Why isn't it enough that I believe in your writing?
henry		--Sophie's Choice? Anything published in the English language.
hannah		--That I believe in you?
henry		You didn't read Gatsby, did you? Never even opened it, I bet.
hannah		I'm not--
john		Well, Strudel shipped out.
henry		Sorry I'm late.
john		Wutch you got here, Obert?
henry		New pages.   I'm ready to read.
alan		Way to go, Henry.
john		Christ.   What's he doing here?
colette		I've invited Doctor Xiroman to join our writing group.
alan		You must be joking, Colette.
colette		I am not joking. And, as a matter of fact, I'll have all of you know that the doctor and I are soon to be published authors. We've signed with The Lois Piper Agency.
henry		You can't do this.
colette		Why not? With William gone, we have an opening.
alan		Henry's right. We all have to agree on new members.
colette		I don't care about your silly rules.
alan		I am the leader of the group--
colette		--Oh, please. Alan.
alan		 I am the leader of the group.
colette		And Dr. Xiroman is my co-author and he is joining "the group."
alan		He is not.
colette		He is.
alan		Is not.
colette		Is.
alan		Is n--
hannah		 STOP!
colette		Well, in this case one plus one equals one very successful writing team. I can't believe you, Hannah. You're doing this just to upstage our news about landing an agent.
alan		Stop it...
colette		No, this is what it's all about. The spotlight always has to be on Little Miss Sunshine. Her agent. Her book deal. Her movie deal.
john		News flash for you all. John K. Butzin is also saying Sayonara. Heading off on my international book tour.
henry		International?
john		Damn straight. Tijuana.  I'm done with you pussies.
alan		Get out.    Now.
colette		You can't kick me out.    I live here.
alan		Fine.   Then go to your room.
colette		We'll certainly have plenty to discuss in therapy.
alan		Go by yourself. I'm done.
colette		Oh. Just like always--Alan finishes first.
alan		Idea for novel.
hannah		Henry . . .
hannah		Exciting, isn't it? I'm so nervous. I don't know half these people. Most of them are Richard's friends.
hannah		Oh my God!
henry		Hi, Hannah.
hannah		Henry. Ohhhhh. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for coming.
henry		Well, pretty hard to miss that article about you in People magazine. Just wanted to say hi. And congratulations.
maureen		Hello, Henry.  Hannah, come back. Your public awaits.
henry		Go on. They need you.
hannah		Please stay.
henry		Can't.   Sorry.
hannah		Oh.
henry		Yeah. Hot date. You know. Can't keep her waiting. A flight attendant.
hannah		 A flight attendant?
henry		Sorry.
hannah		One sec.   Wait here.
henry		 Hannah . . .
hannah		Take it.
henry		No. No, thanks.
hannah		C'mon. It will take just a minute.
henry		I can't.   Really.
maureen		Dear, sweet Hannah. Please!
hannah		Just say hi.
henry		I've really got to --
hannah		Oh, c'mon.   You'll --
henry		Well, I did it. I showed up to Hannah's signing. I congratulated her. I supported her, writer to writer. And I finally got introduced to Richard Benedict--formally. Sort of.
david		This is why I love LA. True story. This guy delivers a pizza to my house one night. Then the very next week, my wife has someone come in and clean the carpets. Guess what? Same guy. Small world, isn't it? So we get talking. He tells me his name's Henry. He's a writer. He's just finished a manuscript. Offers us a discount on the carpets if I'll read ten pages. I like that thinking. So I read ten pages. Wow. I want to read ten more. Before I know it, I've read the entire book. 
henry		Hannah was right. The writing must always come first. Everything else waits. Everything. That's what I did finally. Finished my novel. 
eudora		Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgiastic future that year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that's no matter--
henry		 --Tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms further...
eudora		Not intimately. He died here, you know.
eudora		I go by there sometimes.
henry		The place on Hayworth.
eudora		Is that weird. That I do that?
henry		No. No. Not at all.
eudora		OK. Good. Because, you know, I don't want people to think I'm weird.
henry		Of course not. Do you write?
eudora		Kinda, sort of. But I'm thinking of joining a writing group.
children		Trick or Treat!
john		Look at this treat you get. A copy of Roaring Lion by John K. Butzin. Happy Halloween.
william		C'mon. Admit it. You missed me. It wasn't as interesting once I left, right?
alan		OK. You've got ten seconds. Write down the name of your character. First name that pops into mind. C'mon. Tell me your character.
hannah		Let's see. My book ended up on the best sellers list. Stopping at Number
henry		You know Fitzgerald said that all good writing is swimming under water and holding your breath. He was right. But after all I've been through, I think I'm finally ready to exhale.
eudora		 Yes, I'm totally busted. I'm buying four copies of A Slice of LA. One for each member of my writing group. Also because I think Henry Wayne Obert is the greatest new writer of the decade! Sexiest, too!
****Dialogues from script :Autumn_in_New_York.txt****

wills		-- and I could have waited to tell you, but I wanted to leave no room for misunderstanding.
woman		Well, you certainly didn't.
woman		No, I see how you could feel this way. Of course I do. It's human. But what I don't get is why you'd want to announce it so quickly. I mean, we just met. Feelings change. You don't even know me.
wills		Yes, I do.
woman		Oh, really?
wills		The minute I laid eyes on you. It's the saddest thing about getting older. You know people so quickly. I even knew you'd end up hating me.
woman		Well, you're wrong. I don't.
wills		 Give it time.
charlotte		-- and for weeks I sat by her bed and cried. I told her I loved her and I begged her not to leave me. All I could think about was what I'd lose if she died. And then one night... she was in really bad pain... I stopped thinking about myself for a second and I thought about her.  I stopped crying. I said goodbye. And in less than an hour Ella was gone.
woman		It's so sad.
charlotte		I really think it's possible to hold a person back... cry them back... from dying. That's what I did to Ella and I'll never do it to anyone else again.  I hope no one ever does it to me.
woman		So what do you know about her?
wills		That she's just a kid.
charlotte		Shit.
charlotte		Dolly! The bulb burned out!
charlotte		Dolly?
raspy voice		My ass hurts.
all		SURPRISE!
charlotte		See? Surprises suck!
tanya		Oh, Wills, please, not again. It's our third date and we're already in a rut.
wills		But I thought you loved it.
tanya		Oh, I do -- except for the fact that there isn't a single thing on the menu I can eat.
wills		 Sure, there is; there's just very little you're willing to digest.
tanya		Fine then. We'll go, I'll get big, fat, and horrible, and it'll serve you right.
wills		No, it won't. Because it takes at least a few weeks to get fat and by then you won't even be speaking to me.
tanya		 Why do you say that?
wills		Because we have no future. All I can offer you is this... what we have right now... nothing more meaningful... until it ends.
wills		I could have waited to tell you, but I wanted to leave no room for misunderstanding.
jesus		Good evening, Mr. Keane. Will you be dining with us tonight?
wills		We certainly will. Table seven, Jesus, if it's available.
jesus		Yes, sir.
wills		How are you, Melissa?
melissa		 Fine, Mr. Keane.
wills		Good evening, Celia. And how --
celia		 Just dandy, sir, thanks!
jesus		Table seven.
celia		This way, please.
wills		I'll be right with you.
wills		How's it going?
john		 Chaos.
wills		The house specialty.
john		Easy for you to say, ya prick. Waltzin' in here like you own the joint.
john		So who's the new potential ex-wife? I thought you were still wastin' time with Tanya-von-What's-her-name.
wills		We wisely agreed to cut our losses.
celia		Look, I have no right to say this, okay? And you can fire me if you want, but in the six weeks we've been open you've brought in six different women -- tonight makes seven -- and it's really starting to get to me.
wills		In what way?
celia		I have to greet them! It's like working at a dog shelter! I'm afraid to learn their names or even smile at them because I know any minute they could be put down!
wills		I assure you it's an absolutely painless procedure.
celia		It is?
wills		Sure.  Especially for me.
wills		Actually, I appreciate your concern, Celia. The truth is I'm a little worried myself.
celia		Seriously?
wills		Seriously. I've been trying to do better.  But... you know how it is... old habits die hard.
celia		So I'm not fired?
wills		Nope. In fact, John's been looking for an assistant. Tell him you've just been promoted.
charlotte		You guys! Let me think!  Okay. Okay.
simon		Watch carefully, everyone -- they ought to begin emerging any moment now.
charlotte		Very funny! Actually, any moment now you're gonna turn straight and fall at my feet.
simon		Oh, darling, you know I would if I could.
shannon		The only time he falls at your feet now is when he wants to borrow your Prada loafers.
woman's voice		Is that Wills Keane?
woman		It sure as hell is and he hasn't changed a bit!
wills		I'm sorry, do I --
woman		You little fool, it's Dolores Talbot. Dolly!
wills		My God, it is.
dolly		Yeah, I know, time's kicked my ass but good. Come on, Romeo, let's bury the hatchet. Give me a hug. Careful of the cocktail.
dolly		So what the hell're you doin' around here? Last I heard you were out in earthquake country blowin' the family fortune.
wills		Actually, I doubled it.
dolly		Good for you!
shannon		-- and you know how bouncer's get. He's like, "That's the worst fake I.D. I've ever seen." And I'm like, "Yeah? Well, you have the worst dread- extensions!" And then just when --
simon		Are you feeling all right? You look positively green.
charlotte		He's here. And he's staring at me again.
shannon		No way!
charlotte		Don't!  Wait a few seconds, then go to the bathroom.
simon		How will I know him?
charlotte		He's beautiful. And much older.
simon		Really?  If he's rich you might have a fight on your hands.
charlotte		Okay, look.
shannon		He's as old as my dad!
dolly		Sure, L.A.'s okay if you're a cactus or a lizard, but if you're a New Englander, your soul dries up and blows away like a god damn leaf.
wills		It only took me twenty years to come to my senses.
dolly		So what're you doin' now? You owned some restaurants out there, didn't you?
shannon		And so, after all that, we pay our cover, we get in, and it's totally heinous! Nothing but losers and --
charlotte		Oh, shit.
shannon		What?
dolly		Kids! I want you to meet an old chum of mine, the owner of this fine establishment -- Wills Keane!
dolly		And that over there's the birthday girl -- my granddaughter, Charlotte.
wills		Not Katie and Jay's daughter?
dolly		You bet. She got her height from her dad. But her talent's all Katie's.
dolly		Made it herself from scratch. That one, too.  Honey, show 'im.
wills		Impressive.
charlotte		Thanks.
wills		I think we can do better than that.
wills		Happy birthday, Charlotte.
charlotte		Thanks.
shannon		 Twenty years old and never been...
charlotte		 Shut up!
wills		I'll let you get back to your celebration.  A pleasure to see you again.
dolly		Same here.
simon		Leaving so soon?
simon		Be still my beating heart.  Or is that your heart?
shannon		 You're not really into him, are you?
charlotte		Hey, Dolly, how do you know him?
dolly		 From Newport. Old friend of your mom's.
charlotte		Okay, bitch, I'm ready!
wills		For what?
charlotte		Oh my God, I'm so sorry! Wait. Who is this?
wills		Wills Keane.
wills		Who did you think it was?
charlotte		My friend Simon, actually. He always calls me the morning after to sort of... you know... sum everything up.
wills		And how would you sum it up, Charlotte? Turning twenty.
charlotte		Kinda cool, kinda creepy. Anyway, you wanna speak to my grandmother?
wills		 I don't think so.
wills		I called because I'm going to be attending a benefit... a black-and- white ball.... and I'd like you to design a hat... for my date.
charlotte		Really? Wow. Sounds fun. Okay.
wills		It's a gift. I don't have her measurements, but she's about your size. What're you, a six?
charlotte		Uh-huh.
wills		Good -- then let's assume your hat size is also the same.
charlotte		But that doesn't necessarily --
wills		It's a risk we'll just have to take.
wills		Her dress is a sheath... sleeveless, black. The hat must, of course, be black or white or both.
charlotte		Any particular style?
wills		 No, just plenty of it. How long will it take?
charlotte		A week or two.
wills		You have till Thursday. I'll need it here by seven o'clock. I'm at the Pembroke on Central Park West and 76th.
charlotte		Oh. Wow. Okay.
wills		What's your fee?
charlotte		 I don't really have one. I usually just make them for friends.
wills		How's five hundred dollars?
charlotte		Really? Wow.
wills		Charlotte?
charlotte		Yeah?
wills		You say "wow" a lot.
charlotte		I know.
wills		It has to stop. You're a woman now.
charlotte		I know.
wills		Bye.
charlotte		Bye.
olivia		See, now you got me worried.
wills		What do you mean?
olivia		You slept alone last night. You must be sick or somethin'. You want me to call a doctor?
wills		Thank you, no, I'm fine.
john		Save it, pal! Don't even bother! I may not have gone to a fancy school like Bendover --
wills		 That would be Andover.
sarah		Sure, if his folks could have afforded it.
john		-- but when Wills Keane comps three bottles of Dom to a twenty-year-old girl, then tells me he did it 'cause he likes the kid's grandma, I smell a rat!
sarah		 Oh, is that what that is? I figured there was a dirty diaper somewhere.
wills		 Okay, I admit it, she interests me.
john		 He's gonna do it! I don't believe it! He moved us back here for nothing!
sarah		So much for that turned leaf.
wills		 Come on, you're overreacting.
john		Is that what you think? Buddy, since we hit town, I have done nothin' but cut you slack! Every week a new woman on your arm and I didn't say a word. Why? 'Cause I figured at least they're in the right demographic. Maybe by accident you'll trip over something substantial. But this little girl? Best she could be is Miss Right's daughter!
wills		 I know. It's just that there's something about her. She's special... and I just thought --
sarah		"She's young. She's hot. I'm on the verge of menopause. Why not go for it?"
wills		There wouldn't be much point in lying to you, would there?
kids' voices		Mommy, Daddy, look, look!
john		Hey, they're bigger than you are!
charlotte		Why don't you mark what isn't important? That way you'll save ink.
shannon		Why don't you sew your mouth to my butt? That way you'll stop annoying me.
dolly		Now, now, if you two kids can't play nice --
shannon		God, I hate school.
charlotte		Oh, come on, just last week, you said you were on a roll. You loved it!
shannon		Well, now I'm on the rag and I hate it.
charlotte		I think you're incredibly lucky. I'd love to be going to college.
shannon		Am I the most spoiled brat in the world or what?
charlotte		Spoiled brats don't even ask questions like that.  What do you think?
shannon		That you're the most beautiful person in the entire world.
driver		Mikey! How ya doin'?
doorman		A bit early, aren't you?
driver		Hey, in this soup, better safe than sorry, you know what I mean?
charlotte		KEANE!
michael		He's goin' to a fancy party tonight.
charlotte		Oh, really?
michael		Watch your step, Miss.
charlotte		Thank you.
olivia		He's waitin' for you, Miss Fieldin'.
wills		What happened?
charlotte		I couldn't get a cab, so I took the subway... only it was an express and it didn't stop at --
wills		You realize, don't you, that you're a full eighteen minutes late?
charlotte		I know... I'm so sorry... I --
wills		Charlotte, relax. What's the point of being a beautiful young woman if it isn't to keep your admirers waiting? In fact, you disappoint me: I was looking forward to at least another half hour of suspense.
charlotte		I could leave and come back.
wills		Nope, too late. Anyway, I want to see the hat.
wills		Try it on.
charlotte		I can't. I'm soaked.
wills		It's all right.
wills		It's perfect. It's like a tiny sculpture.
charlotte		I wanted it to be a tiny poem.
wills		If only I had some use for it.  My date canceled a few hours ago.
charlotte		Why?
wills		I don't know. She was vague. Would you... like to come in her place?
charlotte		Like this?
wills		The outfit I bought her is hanging in the guest room closet.
charlotte		 It's okay? Are you sure?
wills		 Of course.
wills		Nonsense. You're very good. Where did you learn?
charlotte		From Ella. The woman whose memorial you crashed.
wills		So you did see me there.
charlotte		Uh-huh. And the next time I saw you, you were on the cover of New York magazine. And I had to pick a place for my birthday. So...
lisa		The C-list?
lisa		Why do you say that?
charlotte		I met Ella in the fourth grade. She was my teacher at the Little Red School House. We stayed friends after she retired. She taught me how to cook and sew... speak Italian... basically enjoy life, have fun -- that's what she was best at... even when she knew she was dying.  The most important thing she did was introduce me to poetry. She believed it was the highest form of art and that everything we say and do should aspire to it.
wills		It sounds as though, in a way, she took your mom's place...
charlotte		My mom and my dad's. After they died, Dolly was so devastated she pretty much gave up on everything. It was like if something that tragic could happen, there was no way she was ever gonna care about anyone else ever again. Including herself. She wasn't a horrible parent... she didn't abuse me or anything... she just ignored me. She was more like a weird landlady than a grandmother.
wills		I'm sure she did the best she could.
charlotte		For a long time I kinda thought that, too, and I made excuses for her, but now I don't. I was seven years old and I needed her and she wasn't there.
wills		I remember when I heard the news about your parents. You know how after a crash they print a long list of names in the newspaper? Well, I grew up outside Boston, so I naturally started to scan the list. But casually, not expecting to --
charlotte		Oh, no, come on! I love this stuff! Don't you? Didn't you grow up on it?
wills		How old do you think I am?
charlotte		Ancient!
wills		I have no idea what to do!
charlotte		Have fun!
lisa		I had to come. I work at the Met. What's your excuse?
charlotte		Sort of a date.
lisa		With Wills Keane, right?
charlotte		You know him?
lisa		Just by reputation.
charlotte		A major womanizer, right?
lisa		That's what they say.  I'm Lisa.
charlotte		Charlotte Fielding.
lisa		Anyway, I should keep mingling. But it was nice to meet you.
charlotte		Same here.
wills		Who was that?
charlotte		Lisa something.
wills		 Here's to --
charlotte		Us.
charlotte		God, you talk like you're a hundred and sixteen!
wills		That's usually how I feel. But not tonight. Tonight I feel sixteen... just sixteen... and three-quarters.
wills		Champagne?
charlotte		He asked nonchalantly.
wills		You see, Charlotte, the way you know you're getting older is that you start to notice patterns. People start falling into types. Pretty soon you know a person before you've even been introduced. And if it's a woman, before the romance even starts, a whisper in your head tells you exactly what it is and how long it's going to last. And the saddest, the most tedious, part of all is that that little voice is almost always right.  Now, what I like about you -- and I think that's actually what inspired this little lecture -- is that I find you completely unprecedented... and, therefore, wholly unpredictable.
charlotte		God, it must be a relief.
wills		 What?
charlotte		To finally deliver that speech to a woman and actually have it apply to her.
wills		Now wait a minute.
charlotte		No, because coincidentally I am all those things you just said. And more.
charlotte		I'm a "unique". At least that's what my yoga teacher says. He says there are very few uniques in the world and I'm one of them.
wills		Well, he's a wise man.
charlotte		You, on the other hand, are what he'd call a "typical."
wills		Oh, really?
charlotte		Uh-huh. And I can prove it. Want me to? Come here.
charlotte		Closer.
charlotte		No, come on, really close.
charlotte		Perfect. Now watch very carefully.
charlotte		See? You're a typical.  Lucky for you, I'm a unique.
charlotte		Boy, do you look guilty.
charlotte		Didn't anyone ever teach you that it's bad manners to stare at a girl when she's eating like a pig?
wills		Listen --
charlotte		Uh-oh. Here it comes.
wills		That's right, because, look, I could put this off, but I genuinely like you. So I want to be clear... right now... from the start, so there's no chance for misunderstanding later.
charlotte		Okay.
wills		What I want to say you is.... well... that all I can offer you is this... what we have right now... nothing more substantial... just this... until it ends.
wills		The truth is, we have no future together.
charlotte		I know. I'm dying.
wills		What... what do you mean?
charlotte		What I said. Nobody thought I'd even last this long.
charlotte		I could have put off telling you, but I genuinely like you, so I wanted to be clear... you know, right from the start.
charlotte		Thanks, Olivia!
sibley		Mr. Keane? Dr. Sibley.
wills		Thank you so much for taking the time.
sibley		It's my job, sir. Please, sit down.
sibley		Now, Mr. Keane, on the phone you referred to Charlotte's condition as cancer. That isn't strictly accurate. Neuroblastoma is a soft tissue malignancy, but it isn't cancer -- although it sometimes can be just as aggressive.  It's most common in children. In young adults, the condition is extremely rare. In Charlotte's case, the tumor is located in her chest. It's growing rapidly and has proved resistant to both irradiation and chemotherapy. And because of its proximity to her aorta, surgery is out of the question.
wills		So then what treatment is she getting?
sibley		At present? Nothing.
sibley		Eventually she'll be treated for pain. In the end, surgery could become an option, but her chances of survival would be slim. Right now Charlotte's against it. She's signed a directive forbidding any sort of heroic intervention.
sibley		There's more here if you're interested, but it won't mean much to you.
wills		How long?
sibley		Optimistically? A year.
charlotte		A real charmer, isn't he?
charlotte		How are you on Cambodian money units?
charlotte		Are you okay, old man? You look kinda woozy.  Is there a doctor in the house?
charlotte		Hey.
charlotte		Look on the bright side: if I weren't sick, there's no way we could hang out together.  I'm serious. You'd be scared of hurting me and I'd be scared you were just using me for my perfect young body.
charlotte		And then our friends would say we were just into each other for weird psychological reasons. You know, because I'm looking for a daddy substitute and you're looking for someone you can feel superior to so you won't have to confront how scared you are of real intimacy -- and, of course, they'd be right and eventually we'd break up.  But since I'm so sick it doesn't really matter what deep-seated weirdness has brought us together because there's no way we can possibly screw each other over... or up... because that takes time. And I don't have much left.
charlotte		So considering everything, don't you think we should just sort of chill out, forget I'm sick, and enjoy what we have... right now... no strings... just this... until it ends? 'Cause that's really all I have to offer.
charlotte		Think about it, okay? But not too hard.
charlotte		Last night was so incredibly hot.  By the way -- it was my first time. And I picked you for the job. I hope you're flattered.
driver		Okay, pal, where to?
shannon		I don't believe it! I don't believe it!
simon		I think what Miss Harris is trying to say, is that you've strained her credulity.
charlotte		Really? Better put some ice on that.
shannon		Girlfriend, you are so incredibly cool!
simon		So I've been told.
shannon		Okay, now tell us everything! Don't leave anything out!
john's voice		Okay, then what happened?
wills		Not much. I took her home and she pointed out an irony -- that fate was now offering us the very same thing that just this morning I'd told her was all I could offer her: a relationship with no future.
john		 A kid figured that out?
wills		She's not a kid! That's what I've been trying to tell you. Nothing's lost on her. I'm the kid. She... I don't know what the hell she is...  But I do know what she was.
wills		A virgin.
john		What?
wills		I had no idea. That's the only reason she had her party here, so she could lure me into doing the honors.
john		 She used you, pal.
wills		I know.
john		The hangman got hanged. How's it feel?
wills		Embarrassing.
john		So what now?
wills		I end it.
john		How come?
wills		What, you're endorsing this now?
john		I don't know, when you talk about her, you're not such an arrogant son of a bitch. You get all whiny and stupid. I like that.
wills		Thanks.
john		And since I don't see you gettin' serious with any of your other victims, I figure why not spend a little time together?
wills		Because she's dying.
john		I got bad news for you, brother, so are you.
dolly		Well, well.
dolly		She'll be right down. She's upstairs, gildin' the lily.  Do come in.
dolly		Excuse the mess. My maid died fourteen years ago and it's been simply impossible to replace her. She did windows and spoke English.
wills		For you.
dolly		Well, aren't they loverly.
dolly		Care for a cocktail?
wills		No, thanks.
simon		It really is uncanny. I tell you, in that dress you're the spitting image of Michel Simon.
charlotte		 Who's she?
simon		A French character actor, long dead, who was not only hideous and fat, but quite male.
charlotte		So that would be a "no."
dolly		What can I say? Time's a thief. One day you're rich as an Arab, the next you're lucky if you can afford a god damn can of pistachio nuts.
dolly		How about that, huh? That was the summer you two --
wills		I know.
dolly		Who'd have guessed what time had in store for her, huh? Look at that smile.
dolly		Then again, time loves some people. Like you, for instance. Oh, time's just wild about you.
dolly		Just as handsome and charming as ever. And still up to the same old tricks.
wills		What do you mean?
dolly		First time you came to pick up Katie, you brought me flowers. Just like those.  Flower the mother; then deflower the daughter. But Katie was too smart for you...
wills		Dolly, look --
dolly		 Aw, why the hell don't you leave her alone? Christ, she's sick!
charlotte		What? What's wrong?
dolly		You look like your mom is all.
wills		What do you mean, you knew?
charlotte		I did! I just didn't think it would take so long!
wills		Two days is long?
charlotte		It is when you're sitting by the phone. You wanna know how I knew?
wills		You're psychic?
charlotte		I am, but no -- it's because of my birthday wish.
wills		But we hadn't even been introduced yet.
charlotte		I know, but I wished that whatever happened... you know, with my illness... I'd go out with a bang. Nothing heavy. No violins. No melodrama. Just fun. A total adventure!
wills		CAREFUL!
charlotte		Wow, it's getting exciting already.
charlotte		"Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year! My soul is all but out of me, -- let fall No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call!"
wills		We could go to a museum.
charlotte		No, that would be a thing! I don't want to do any thing today. I want to do no thing all day.
wills		Nothing at all?
charlotte		Uh-huh. No thing at all.
wills		So a movie is out.
charlotte		Way out!
wills		Ice cream at the Plaza? High tea at the Palace?
charlotte		Both out.
wills		What about shopping?
charlotte		Possible.
wills		It's not a thing?
charlotte		Only when I have money.
wills		But all I gave you was champagne. That's not a proper birthday present.
charlotte		I agree, and I promise I'll let you give me something else, but not today.
wills		When?
charlotte		Soon. But I'm warning you, it's not going to be anything material.
wills		Why not?  Oh, I see... because you're sick. Because --
charlotte		That's right, but we're not gonna talk about that.
wills		How come?
charlotte		Because it's my rule.
wills		Any particular reason?
charlotte		Yeah, because everybody always wants to talk about miracles, or about some genius quack-doctor, or their friend's friend who went into remission eating nothing but sunflower seeds. It's boring and pointless.
wills		Are you sure? I mean, there are specialists who --
charlotte		Don't start, okay?  Now what I would enjoy is taking you shopping. For clothes. I'm serious. It's quality not quantity, you know.
charlotte		At work you should look perfect, but in everyday life you need to delight in disorder more. Don't you know? "A sweet disorder in the dress kindles in clothes a wantonness."
wills		I think that goes without saying.
charlotte		It was true when that poem was written three hundred years ago and it's true today. Wouldn't it be fun to look wanton occasionally?
wills		It's been a lifelong dream of mine. But will a scarf do it?
charlotte		Totally. Accessories rule. But we have to be careful. I don't want you looking too young. Nothing's worse than an old guy trying to look young.
wills		Good advice. I'll remember that for when I get old.
charlotte		You know what I meant.
wills		That I'm old.
charlotte		Uh-huh.
charlotte		Perfectly imperfect!
wills		I don't know why, but for some odd reason, I feel absolutely compelled to tell you the truth about this... even at the risk of --
charlotte		Hey, you're giving me the creeps. Just spit it out.
wills		I never had a date for the benefit. My plan from the beginning was for you to come with me.
charlotte		So I made the hat for myself?  Why? I mean, why me?
wills		The eulogy you gave at Ella's service was so... impressive. You spoke about her death... about loss... in a way that I could never have done. You understood life emotionally in a way that I didn't. Whatever that understanding was, I wanted to get close to it.
charlotte		And sex seemed like the best way to do it.
wills		And the most enjoyable, yeah.
charlotte		Well, first of all, let me say, you have great taste because that little Dolce & Gabbana was to die for.
wills		Thanks.
charlotte		And, second, don't ever lie to me again.
wills		All right.
charlotte		Seriously. There isn't a lie in the whole world I'd rather hear than the truth.
charlotte		I thought I told you to wait right there!
wills		I got restless.
charlotte		Well, I hope you didn't talk to anybody!
wills		Not a soul.
charlotte		You know what would scare me right now?
wills		What?
charlotte		This.
charlotte		Have I told you my latest motto?
wills		No.
charlotte		If it's scary, do it.
wills		I'm not sure I like that motto.
charlotte		I'm not sure that matters.
charlotte		Oh my God.
wills		What?
charlotte		You're scared, too.
charlotte		Your turn.
charlotte		What's the matter, old man? Can't afford a gym?
wills		That's it!
charlotte		"Counting the beats, Counting the slow heart beats, The bleeding to death of time In slow heart beats, Wakeful they lie."
wills		So many words in that wonderful head of yours...
charlotte		If I could give you anything in the whole world, that's what it would be.
wills		Words?
charlotte		Poetry.
john		Oh no, your boy made it! At ten minutes before close! All night I got a card announcing a halibut special, only I got no halibut! Now it's Sunday and I got three dozen cats lickin' their chops in the alley! Tony, I don't wanna hear it! I don't wanna hear it! I don't wanna -- MAN, GO TO HELL!
wills		Are you familiar with the phrase, "You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar?"
john		Are you familiar with the phrase, "Mind your own god damn business?"
wills		Sure, it's from Poor Richard's Almanac. But the last time I checked --
john		No, your business is to smile, make friends, and get rich! My business is the business.
john		What're you doin' here, anyway? You got a girl. Go home. Carve a pumpkin.
wills		We can't spend every waking moment together.
john		Why not?  No, seriously. Why not?
celia		Special delivery!
wills		No trouble?
celia		None.
john		Every year. You got no imagination.
wills		It's a classic. A little spirit gum and voila!
wills		-- young women are rendered helpless.
celia		It's true. I see a guy with horns growing out of his head and my knees go weak.
wills		Of course -- it's biological.
john		What's goin' on?
wills		What do you mean?
john		At home.
wills		Nothing. Honestly. We're having a lot of fun. We're very happy.
charlotte's voice		Don't come in! Don't!
wills		I'm not even tempted!
charlotte's voice		 I'll be right out!
olivia		You like hot cider?
wills		Sure, thanks.
wills		Mmmm.
olivia		Charlotte made it. I just poured it in the cup.
charlotte		Ta-da!
wills		Incredible.
charlotte		Don't I look just like her?
wills		Absolutely incredible.
charlotte		You have no idea who I am.
wills		Give me a hint.
charlotte		"Hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul."
wills		Was that the hint?
charlotte		You dummy! Emily Dickinson! Only the greatest American female poet ever!
charlotte		Uncultured swine.
wills		The truth is out. I've lost you forever.
charlotte		Wanna bet?
charlotte		When do I get to see your costume?
jesus		No, I think we make a great couple. A good witch and a bad hombre. That could make for some very interesting sex.
john		O, Ricky, chill out! You're gonna get snot in the water!
john		That's it -- outta the pool!
sarah		Where're the girls? I thought you were tucking them in!
john		We got a volunteer!
woman		Guess who?
wills		Wonder Woman?
woman		No.
wills		Batgirl?
woman		I'll give you a hint. You dumped me.
wills		Princess Di?
wills		Wendy?
wills		Yup, I'd know that throttle anywhere!
molly		Just one more.
carla		Please?
charlotte		All right, but this is the last last one!
charlotte		"Because I could not stop for Death, He kindly stopped for me; The carriage held but just ourselves And Immortality. We slowly drove, he knew no haste, And I had put away My labor, and my leisure too, For his civility."
charlotte		"We passed the school where children played At wrestling in a ring; We passed the fields of grazing grain, We passed the setting sun."
celia		Sweet dreams?
charlotte		I had no idea I was so tired.
sarah		 They're down?
charlotte		And out.  Where's Lucifer?
jesus		 Last time I saw him, he was in the kitchen going pretty heavily with Holly Golightly.
celia		Hey, no gossip! Holly's a valued customer.
charlotte		Lemme at 'er!
jesus		Hell hath no fury like a recluse scorned.
charlotte		Hey, shouldn't one of your minions be doing that?
john		You know, in my day, you bobbed for the apple, and, sure, maybe there was a nickel inside it and that was sweet -- but you ate the god damn apple! These little animals grab the coin and they're out the door!
charlotte		-- off to buy crack!
john		Exactly my point.
charlotte		Seen Beelzebub around?
john		The Prince of Darkness?
charlotte		Uh-huh.
john		Yeah, he went upstairs.
charlotte		Shit.
charlotte		You lost your horns.
wills		Hey, looking for me?
charlotte		Uh-huh.
wills		We were checking out the roof. John's got quite a set-up.
wills		Wendy, this is Charlotte Fielding. Charlotte -- my friend Wendy Lister.
wendy		Actually, I saw you at that memorial service in Connecticut. Your eulogy was beautiful.
charlotte		Thank you.
wendy		 Betsy Ross, right?
charlotte		You guessed it.
wills		Is the party over?
wills		I have a strange feeling that you're upset with me.
charlotte		No, I was just wondering if you had sex with that woman.
wills		Ever?
charlotte		No, the answer to that's pretty obvious. I meant tonight. On the roof.
wills		You're not serious.
wills		Of course not. Why would I want to do something like that?
charlotte		That's what I was wondering. I thought, "We're so happy he'd have no reason to do it. And if he did do it, he'd at least look guilty, wouldn't he? But he doesn't. He looks more relaxed than before the party started."
wills		Well, there you have it.
charlotte		But then I thought, "He's a womanizer -- that's what they say." Funny word, huh? Sounds like some sorta machine. "And how do you get to be a womanizer? Obviously by sleeping with lots of different women for no good reason and being really good at lying about it."
wills		Sure, except that --
charlotte		Let me finish.
charlotte		Anyway, there's something about being sick right here --
charlotte		-- that has made me acutely aware of my heart. Nothing corny -- I mean, literally... I feel every beat. I know how sensitive it is. It reacts to everything.
charlotte		If you're lying to me, I'll know it.  Did you have sex with Wendy on the roof?
charlotte		My God... oh my God.
wills		Look, I never pretended to be anything other than --
charlotte		 You hate yourself so much!
wills		This was all a mistake. Right from the start. All of it. I'm a grown man and you're a child.  Anyway, you have better things to do with your last -- With your time than spend it with me.
charlotte		 What about you? Do you have anything better?
charlotte		You know, maybe you're right. Maybe this is the best time to end it. Because I was actually starting to love you, Wills, and that's the last thing I ever wanted.
dolly		Well, if it ain't the Belle of Amherst.
dolly		Seen that face before.
charlotte		You have?
dolly		And for the same god damn reason.
charlotte		But you said Wills and my Mom were just friends.
dolly		Sure, but she was nuts about him. The only reason she didn't sleep with him is 'cause she was sentimental. And smart. She wanted a ring first.
charlotte		Why didn't he give her one?
dolly		'Cause he knocked up little Millie Tyler instead. In Newport. At Bailey's Beach. During the Labor Day clam bake.
dolly		Millie was your mom's best friend from Nightingale. You had to hand it to him. He sure knew how to make a point.
charlotte		Why did he do that?
dolly		Aw, who the hell knows? 'Cause the moon was full. 'Cause life's short. 'Cause he's Wills Keane. I'll tell you a little secret -- after that, your Mom hated his guts, but your dad never made her smile like he did.  'Course your dad never made her cry like that either.
charlotte		 Why didn't you tell me any of this before?
dolly		Oh, I dunno...
charlotte		You never talk to me! You never try to help me!
dolly		Christ, look at me. I'm gonna tell you what to do?
charlotte		Yes! You're my family. You're supposed to take care of me.
dolly		Aw, you wouldn't listen. That's the thing about people -- they just do what they want from the day they're born till the day they die.
charlotte		No, that's you, Dolly! People who have given up don't listen to other people! People who want to die close off! That's not me! I wanted your help! I wanted to learn!
charlotte		Anything... anything you would ever have told me, I would have listened to! I promise.
dolly		 Aw, come on, honey. I can throw a party and I can mix a gimlet. After that, what the fuck do I know?
patty		Oh, Wills, it's beautiful!
wills		Thank you. It was designed by a team from --
patty		So functional! Is that stainless steel?
wills		Actually, no, it's velvet.
patty		Oh, my God, it is!
wills		How are you?
melissa		How are you, sir?
patty		Well, if the food's even half as good as the moldings I'm in for a very special treat.
jesus		Uhhh, good evening, Mr. Keane. Will you be dining with us?
wills		Yes, Jesus. Table seven, if it's available.
jesus		Certainly, sir.
wills		Hello, Celia.
celia		 How are you this evening, sir?
wills		I've been worse.
celia		 Are you sure?
jesus		Table Seven.
new hostess		This way, please.
wills		 Order a drink. I'll be right with you.
john		Where the hell you been?
wills		Splendid, how are you?
john		Where's Charlotte?
wills		Deliveries on time?
john		Who's the broad? She looks like a Holiday-Inn hooker from Ohio.
wills		Keep up the good work!
charlotte		Okay, I'm chugging Scotch, gagging on smoke, and losing my hearing! Now why is this so good for me again?!
simon		That's just it! The great spiritual benefit in leaving one's room is that it reminds one of how odious it is to leave one's room!
shannon		Excuse me! Excuse me! Sorry! Excuse me!
boy's voice		No problem!
simon		There's one thing you don't know about Mr. Keane and his adultery and as painful as it is I feel that I should tell you!
charlotte		 What? What is it!
simon		That woman on the roof? That was no ex-girlfriend! In fact, no woman at all. It was I, Simon Loring, master of disguise! Willsy and I have moved in together!
shannon		Look what I found!
charlotte		Eric! Wow!
eric		Hey, Char!
charlotte		God, long time no see! One night we show up to rent Eraserhead and you're just gone!
eric		Sorry about that!
shannon		It was such a drag! You know, having to actually start paying to rent movies!
eric		I bet!
charlotte		What's up? Ralph said you moved to Rockland County!
eric		Yeah, I got a job working for my mom's new boyfriend!
charlotte		What does he do?
eric		He sells pot!
shannon		Cool!
eric		Not really. I was a driver! I got laid off when he got busted. He's awaiting trial!
charlotte		So what're you doing now?
eric		Same thing pretty much. Only for Domino's!
shannon		Whoa, I don't believe it!  She hasn't laughed in like a week!
patty		-- so everybody on the conference call starts introducing themselves. Ned Lewey, Paris Office. Takashi Matsuo, Tokyo Office. Whoever, the London Office. And then someone says, "Will the architect from the New York office please identify himself." And I pipe up and say, "Well, guys, I'm not a him or an architect. I'm Patty Strauss and I'm head of East Coast marketing." And there's like total silence. It was hysterical!
wills		I'm sorry, would you excuse me?
patty		Of course.
wills		Who is it?
john		Nobody!
john		Last time I checked I was your best friend!
wills		So?
john		So after the party, no thank you! I call you three times -- no call back! And for six days you don't even eat at your own god damn restaurant! What am I supposed to think? Huh?! I was ready to call the morgue!
wills		Relax, I'm alive.
john		Well, you sure don't look it!
john		I'll tell you why it's my concern! Because I had a god damn swimming pool! An ocean view! A fabulous lemon tree hangin' right over my Jacuzzi! And I gave it up for you, brother! Back to a life of concrete and dirt and sirens just so you could get your shit together!
john		On my roof? You gotta be kiddin'! Not on my green chair! Tell me it wasn't on the green chair.
john		Oh, great. Now how am I gonna clean that?
wills		Look, it doesn't matter that she's sick -- she's still a kid and there's no way we should be together. It's unhealthy... it's... it's inappropriate...
john		 What the hell is that? Some sorta shrink talk?
wills		Look, if she were just fun... just some sort of diversion... maybe I could justify it. But the worst part is that it's becoming more. Much more. It's embarrassing how much I like her. She gets to me. She affects me...
wills		And she's gonna be gone and... I'm not sure I can... I mean... I already think about her all the time...  Her smile kills me... and the thought... that it'll be gone... forever... that I'll never see her again... I don't know... I can't -- I don't think I'm that strong, Johnny. It's too much. I'd rather have it be over... over now. I'll start missing her now.
john		Buddy, I hate to break it to you, but in the real world... where I live... there're only two kindsa love stories. Boy loses girl and girl loses boy. That's all there is. Somebody always gets left behind. You try to avoid that, you'll end up an old man toastin' yourself with egg nog in the mirror on Christmas Eve. You'll end up dying in your own arms.
patty		Thank you so much. I had such a great time.
wills		Good. I'm... I'm glad.
patty		Didn't you?
wills		Patty, I... I want to be honest with you... right now, from the start... so there's no room for misunderstanding. I didn't have a good time, but it's nothing personal. I just split up with someone and rather than admit to myself how much I miss her, I asked you out instead. And it's unfair. If I feel sad I should just feel sad and not try to use you... and your body... as some sort of painkiller, right?  Anyway, I think you're a warm and engaging woman and I wish you all the best.
michael		Mr. Keane --
wills		Good night, Michael.
michael		You've got a visitor.
wills		Who?
michael		She's been waitin' almost an hour. In the lobby.  A little surprise for ya.
lisa		Sorry to disappoint you.
wills		No, no. Not at all. You surprised me, that's all. I didn't expect to see you... not here... not after your letter.
lisa		Well, I didn't expect you to show up at my job.
wills		I followed you in. I wasn't even sure it was you. All I have is an old snapshot.
lisa		My boss thought you were a stalker.
wills		I didn't mean to run off like that.
lisa		But you did.
lisa		So you got my letter. What'd you do? Freak out? Burn it?
wills		I saved it.
lisa		I was just blowing off some steam, okay? I think I have the right.
wills		So do I. Look, why don't we go upstairs.
lisa		 No. I didn't plan to come. Peter... my husband... he agrees. He thinks it's a futile exercise. But it turns out I'm pregnant. Just a few months, but --
wills		Lisa -- Congratulations. That's wonderful.
lisa		Thanks. Anyway, I guess it made me want to meet you. I've been a little sentimental about parent-hood.
wills		Is that what you consider me?
lisa		In a lousy absentee sorta way, sure.
wills		How's your mom?
lisa		Great. Nuts. She moved to Costa Rica last summer.
wills		Why?
lisa		A guy, what else? He owns a charter airline and wears sunglasses indoors. I think he might be a gunrunner.
lisa		You know, you're much better looking in person than in photographs. I always assumed Mom was exaggerating, but she wasn't.
wills		Thanks. You're not bad looking yourself.
lisa		Anyway... I should go...
wills		Already?
lisa		I really just wanted to meet you and... maybe... I don't know...
wills		 What is it? Tell me.
lisa		Nothing earth-shattering. Maybe just to hear you say you were sorry.
wills		I am. I'm very sorry.
lisa		Okay. Thanks.
wills		Can I call you?
lisa		Before... when you came in... who did you think I was?
wills		A friend.
lisa		You must like her an awful lot.
charlotte		Hey.
wills		Where were you? I was worried.
charlotte		So worried you fell asleep. What're you doing here?
wills		I've missed you. You have no idea how much.
charlotte		How'd you get in?
wills		Dolly. We watched TV. She fell asleep. What time is it?
charlotte		I didn't know I had a curfew.
wills		Where were you?
charlotte		None of your business. So what is it? What do you want?
wills		To tell you that you were right. I do hate myself. But not so much that I can't see how stupid and despicable and --
charlotte		Cowardly.
wills		And cowardly what I did was. And even though there's no excuse for it, I want you to forgive me.
charlotte		Why should I?
wills		Because, for better or worse, I'm falling in love with you, and the thought of our not being together is unbearable to me.
charlotte		Let's sleep.
charlotte		In the morning, we'll talk about what a gigantic asshole you are.
wills		So where were you?
charlotte		With Shannon and Simon and Eric.
wills		Who's Eric?
charlotte		An old friend who used to work at Blockbuster.
wills		What'd you guys do?
charlotte		Talked and drank. Simon and Shannon finally went home. Eric and I hung out.
wills		Hung out where?
charlotte		Stop. We'll talk about it tomorrow.
wills		Fine.
wills		Talk about what? Is there something to talk about? What happened?
wills		No, honestly, I think I have a right to know.
charlotte		And I honestly think I have a right not to tell you.
wills		You're being unreasonable.
charlotte		You're being nosy.
wills		You know, in this day and age it's not so outrageous a request. I mean, I don't know this kid. I don't know where he's been.
charlotte		 You're worried about where he's been? Give me a break!
wills		It requires balance and I have lousy balance, okay?
charlotte		Oh, come on, what's the worst that can happen?  Well, I guess you could break a hip.
wills		Look, I'm not in a sporting mood!
charlotte		How come?
wills		I'm jealous, okay?! Is that what you want to hear? Are you satisfied now?
charlotte		Not even close!
wills		All I want is a simple answer and you're torturing me! And I resent it! It's cruel and juvenile! And I --
charlotte		 HEY!
charlotte		It's not! It's adult! It's revenge! And if you think it's bad not knowing what I did -- well, it's even worse knowing exactly what you did!
charlotte		Do me a favor, okay? Never ask me again what happened with Eric. Just accept the fact that you'll never, ever know. And if that hurts, then think about it next time you want to cheat on somebody.
wills		I wish I were exaggerating, but I'm not. I slept with every one of them. Really. Look through Dolly's old photo albums... or any movie magazine... visit Aspen at Christmas. I was on a mission. And until recently I really didn't think I had a problem. Or if I did, it was definitely the most pleasurable one I could imagine.
charlotte		What changed?
wills		My house in Malibu burned to the ground.
wills		I know, it sounds funny. But it must have triggered something because the next thing I knew I couldn't sleep. I'd lie awake at night absolutely terrified. Like a kid left alone in the dark.
charlotte		What were you scared of?
wills		How quickly time was passing and how adolescent I still felt. How meaningless all my choices seemed. How lonely I was. So I liquidated my portfolio, sold my businesses, and moved back here. To start over, settle down, start acting my age.  You were supposed to be my one last dalliance with youth.
charlotte		Well, for your sake, I hope I am.
sarah		Judge you? Why would I? Screw the age difference -- I like the new you! Before Charlotte came along, do you have any idea how hard it was to get you to sit down for a Happy Meal?
molly		Uncle Wills, how come you don't get married?
john		Yeah, how come, Uncle Wills?
wills		I want to, Carla, but --
molly		I'm not Carla! I'm Molly!
wills		Well, Molly, I just haven't met the right woman yet.
carla		What about Charlotte? She's funny- pretty.
sarah		 It means funny and pretty. It's their highest compliment.
wills		I agree.  She's also demanding.
john		Where're you goin'?
wills		She's decided she wants her birthday present today.
john		But that was last month.
wills		The Dom didn't count. This is her real present. She chose it herself and it's not material.
john		Now you got me curious.
sarah		Yeah, what is it?
hari		Okay... breath of fire... now inhale deeply... hold the breath... let your heart lotus blossom... feel the energy rise... and exhale. Good. Now peacock pose.
wills		When does the enlightenment start?
charlotte		When you realize that I'm God.
hari		Are you all right?
charlotte		Yeah. No big deal. Cramp in the old fifth shakra!
wills		Don't worry. You're gonna be okay.
charlotte		It's no big deal. I just hyperventilated. Really.
wills		Excuse me... do you have an extra one of those?
little man		 You a smoker?
wills		Not for years.
little man		Well, hell, if I'm gonna be the one to get you goin' again.
wills		Thanks.
little man		Don't mention it.
sibley		The repeat MRI and CAT scan do show interval progression.
wills		 Which means the tumor's grown?
sibley		Yes. Yes, it has. Considerably. As for her loss of consciousness, one explanation is a disturbance in her heart's electrical function. We'll be monitoring her overnight for any arrhythmias. If we find something, we'll treat it. Unfortunately, the more likely explanation is that the tumor has begun to obstruct the outflow of her heart. If that's the case, there's little we can do. We could be speaking in terms of weeks not months.
sibley		When she returns home, we'll want her to stay active, but don't let her overexert herself.  Don't stay long. She's been sedated.
charlotte		Hey.
wills		Are you all right? You're okay? How do you feel?
charlotte		Stoned.
wills		I'll let you rest. I should. You'll sleep and then --
charlotte		 Shhh.
charlotte		You still owe me a birthday present.
wills		I do not.
charlotte		Just 'cause I fainted is no excuse for you to bail on your peacock pose.
wills		It ought to be illegal.
charlotte		What?
wills		Your smile. It's too pretty.
charlotte		I've ruined you for other women.
wills		You have.
charlotte		All part of my master plan.  Do you wanna hear a story... a bedtime story?
wills		Shouldn't I be telling you one?
charlotte		Once upon a time, there was a woman on a ship crossing the Atlantic and her little boy got sick. Very sick. And she said whoever saves my boy's life... I'll name my next baby after them. Well, they got into port and they rushed her son to St. Vincent's hospital... to here... and they saved his life. And so the mother named her next baby Edna St. Vincent Millay.  And Edna grew up to be, as I am sure you know, the second greatest female poet in American history.
wills		The first would be Emily Dickinson.
charlotte		You're a quick learner -- I like that about you...  "It may be, when my heart is dull, Having attained its girth, I shall not find so beautiful The meagre shapes of earth, Nor linger in the rain to mark The small of tansy through the dark."
charlotte		I am so pretentious...
wills		Charlotte, listen, I --
charlotte		Uh-oh. Heavy, heavy...
wills		I just think --
charlotte		No. No violins. I'm fine. Go home... sleep...
shannon		It just didn't seem real and now that it is, I hate it! It's so unfair!
dolly		Fare is what you pay on the train to Jersey. Fair is the place that smells like manure where, if you're real lucky, you win a blue ribbon for your home-made pickles. Fair is a sky without a cloud and a face with a mark. Fare is food. What fair isn't is everything else.
simon		Well, I think I speak for all of us when I say that we've heard quite enough from Dolores.
simon		Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe what you're saying is that while the end may be in sight, it has not yet arrived.
wills		That's right. The tumor's begun to interfere with the function of her heart, but she --
simon		Then why exactly have you called us here?
simon		I cut short a lunch date, Shannon's missing her low-impact aerobics class, and Dolores has delayed the start of her happy hour -- surely you must have had good reason.
wills		I thought Charlotte's health might be of some interest you.
simon		It is. You could have told me all about it on the telephone.
wills		I also thought it might be a good idea if we discussed ways to make her as comfortable as possible for the --
simon		Charlotte loathes comfortable. I never sought to bore her with comfort while she was well, why should I start now that she's sick?
wills		Tell me, are you really so cold? Or is it just a pose that you've cultivated?
simon		It's a pose that I've cultivated.  I chose it, as a sort of smoke screen, some time after attending my twentieth funeral in as many months.
wills		I'm sorry.
simon		It's quite all right. But, honestly, it shocks me how often you people forget. Our phone books have as many numbers crossed out as written in. So that while death is certainly as painful to us as it is to you, we do not find it nearly so... extraordinary.  Don't misunderstand me. I adore Charlotte and when she dies, I would... were it not already in that state... cry my heart dry.
wills		She's in the hospital now. She doesn't have long. Weeks maybe and -- She... Anyway, I have something to ask you. A favor. I have no right to ask. I know. I'd do it myself, but I can't. I'm too... I'm...
lisa		What is it?
wills		I want you to find a surgeon. Dr. Sibley told me... Charlotte's doctor told me... he said at some point, when it's hopeless, surgery could be an option. Heroic surgery, he called it. I want to make sure that when the time comes a hero is performing that heroic surgery. Do you understand? You'll have to make calls. I'll get names. Sibley will give me names.  You have every right to refuse me. After what I did. You were a child... and you needed me... and I was nowhere to be found. There's no excuse for that. I'm so terribly sorry!
lisa		I'd be happy to do it.
lisa		Dad, I'm really sorry she's sick.
wills		 I am, too. So sorry. I should be the one. It should be me.
charlotte		You never talk about my mother.  Talk about her.
wills		What do you want to know?
charlotte		Everything. All I remember is that she smelled like vanilla, loved to read to me, and was really good at cutting up fruit. I couldn't believe she didn't cut her fingers off.
wills		Well, I remember a little more than that. Let's see... she was blonde... about your height --
charlotte		I've seen pictures, dummy.
wills		Oh, okay. She... always ate her ice cream with a fork -- how's that?
charlotte		Much better.
wills		And she wrote great letters, but couldn't spell at all.
charlotte		Neither can I.
wills		She was a McGovern Democrat but also an incredible snob. She loved blueberries. She had the world's worst backhand. Her favorite singer was Stephen Stills.
charlotte		Who?
wills		Never mind. She was afraid of sharks. And, considering the times, she was pretty square. She only tried drugs once -- a lifeguard gave her a hash brownie and she threw it up all over him.
wills		And she laughed just like that. And she bit her fingernails. And she couldn't tell a joke.  In short, she was a unique.
charlotte		Did you know she was in love with you?
wills		She told me.
charlotte		Were you in love with her?
wills		Yes.
charlotte		Why? Because she was the only girl in Rhode Island who wouldn't sleep with you?
wills		That's how she got my attention; it's not why I fell in love with her.  I fell in love with her because she charmed me senseless day and night for an entire summer.
charlotte		Then why did you screw her best friend on Labor Day?
charlotte		It's just a question.
wills		I have no idea. The summer was over. Your mom was going back to Smith. I was moving down here to work on Wall Street. It was our last day together. She was crying. She told me, for the first time, that she loved me. I said I loved her, too. I promised to call and visit. A few hours later I was in a cabana with Millie.  When Millie told me she was pregnant and that she wanted to marry me, I escaped to L.A... and I never saw her or your mom again.
charlotte		 Well done.
wills		I think it's part of the reason I never came back.
charlotte		But why're you like that? What is it? I mean, you weren't born that way.
wills		I might as well have been. For as long as I can remember, I've always run off at the first sign of a woman wanting anything from me... relying on me in any way.
charlotte		But I want everything from you, Wills. I rely on you in every way.
wills		I know.
charlotte		So the only reason you don't dump me is because I'm sick? Because you know that it's all going to be over, anyway?
wills		Maybe. But it doesn't feel that way.  It feels as though I'm not afraid anymore.
wills		Driver! Quick! Pull over here! Right here!
charlotte		I didn't know you could sing!
wills		I didn't know you couldn't!
choirmaster		Well, you all know what time it is!
charlotte		 No, I don't. Do you?
choirmaster		HAPPY HOLIDAYS!
wills		I love you, Charlotte.
charlotte		You call that a rose? It looks more like a hand grenade!
henry		Mr. Keane, you get her outta here or, I swear to God, I'm gonna butterfly and stuff her!
wills		I'll add it to the specials list.
charlotte		 No way! I'm too pricey!
charlotte		Hello, Sunshine!
john		You seen Celia?
wills		What's the matter?
john		The matter is I got a half-hour wait and no help up front! You got a call on Two!
wills		Wills Keane.
lisa		I've got him!
grandy		Listen, I'm not gonna bullshit you. If she were a baby, she'd have a decent chance, 'cause these sorts of tumors can regress like crazy, but she's twenty and... I don't know, man... I've never seen anything like it.  You know, just once I'd like to get sent something simple. A "cabbage," a valve replacement. Even a good old- fashioned transplant. But it doesn't happen anymore. It's the downside of being good at my job.
wills		Good? They say there's no one better.
grandy		I don't know. I'm like most people. I do the best I can.
wills		Can your best save her?
grandy		Probably not.
grandy		In these sorts of cases, it's best if she signs a consent.
wills		 No problem.
grandy		Good.  Here's my service. They'll reach me no matter where I am. In the meantime, I'll coordinate with Dr. Sibley.
wills		I can't thank you enough.
grandy		I haven't done anything yet.
charlotte		By the way -- where were you today?
wills		What do you mean?
charlotte		When you called I assumed you were at the restaurant, but when I called back later, Jesus said you hadn't been in all day.
wills		I was in Montclair, New Jersey.
charlotte		Why?
wills		 An opportunity.
charlotte		Oh, really? Sexual or professional?
wills		I was considering opening a restaurant. But the rents are too high.
charlotte		Hey! How do you feel about Christmas?
wills		 Bah humbug...
michael		Will you and Mister Keane be goin' away for the holidays?
charlotte		I doubt it.
michael		I've seen so little of America. I don't care for airplanes, you see, and I have so little time to travel.  Did Mister Keane enjoy his trip then?
charlotte		What trip?
michael		Why, just yesterday.
charlotte		I wouldn't really call that a trip.
michael		Perhaps not. But I've never been to Ohio myself. They say parts of it are quite lovely.
michael		 All right, you little hellions! Get in here!
wills		Straight?
charlotte		I thought we had a deal.
wills		I'm sure we do. About what?
charlotte		Lying.  You were in Ohio yesterday.
wills		I met with a heart specialist. He's willing to operate.
charlotte		But you know I don't want that! You know I've signed papers that --
wills		Well, maybe I want it.
charlotte		It isn't your decision!
wills		Of course not, but if you'll hear me out --
charlotte		No! I told you right from the start how I felt and you went behind my back! You lied and --
wills		 Oh, Christ, knock it off! You're such a god damn saint, so above it all, but you're scared to death! You do want to live! And if you were as honest as you say you are you'd let the doctors do whatever they can to help you!
charlotte		I won't give people hope when there isn't any.
wills		Why not?! Maybe we want hope! Or maybe we just need to know that we did everything we could! Maybe I need to know that... if I'm going to be able to live... to go on without... without --
charlotte		Now I know why you hurt so many women. Because you always knew if you held on to one of them, you'd never let go.
charlotte		When we met, I was so lonely. But I didn't even know it. I'd been alone so long.. almost forever...
wills		So had I.
charlotte		But now we have each other.  Oh, what would I do, Wills? What would I do if you weren't here? Where would I be?
wills		You don't ever have to worry about that.
charlotte		I'll do whatever I have to! I'll tear up the papers! Whatever you want! Tell the doctor! Because... I really do want... I don't want to leave you!
charlotte		Wills?!
wills		Yeah?
charlotte		How long was I asleep?
wills		A couple of hours.
charlotte		Wow. And I'm still tired.
wills		That's all right. Relax.
charlotte		What're you doing in there?
wills		Nothing.
charlotte		Liar!
wills		Don't! Don't move! Just one more minute!
charlotte's voice		 What're you doing?!
charlotte's voice		Oh no! You didn't!
wills		You were just going to tire yourself out!
charlotte's voice		This I've gotta see!
wills		Just hold on!
wills		Finishing touches!
wills		Almost!
wills		Voila!
wills		Time cannot break the bird's wing from the bird. Bird and wing together Go down, one feather. No thing that ever flew, not the lark, not you, Can die as others do.
charlotte		What have I done to you?
wills		Ruined me for other women.
charlotte		No... I saved you for them...
male voice		Is she type 'n' cross for six units?!
nurse's voice		Yes, Doctor.
grandy		What're we waiting for?
grandy		Then let's move!
wills		It happened so quickly. We'd just talked about the surgery. She agreed to it. But I thought there'd be time.
simon		I've had friends who weren't expected to last till morning who lived another seven years. Another ran a marathon and died the next weekend. It's all so terribly random the way life actually works. I take nothing for granted.
wills		You know, it's funny, the first time I saw her, I --
lisa		Actually, to be honest, Peter's more than a little freaked. I mean, how could he not be? He's twenty-six. His first child. A baby girl, no less. Nothing really prepares you for it.
wills		I guess not.
lisa		He said it's the first time since we got married that he's actually realized what marriage is. That it's forever. That he can't just pick up and run away to Nepal or something if we have a fight. That he's part of the cycle of things now. That he's gonna die some day. That it's the next generation's turn to take the stage.
lisa		So what about you, Mr. Keane? You ready to be a grandpa?
****Dialogues from script :Avatar.txt****

perky newscaster		The Bengal tiger, extinct for over a century, is making a comeback. These cloned tiger cubs at the Beijing Zoo are...
jake		I hope you realize you've just lost a customer!
jake		 Candy ass bitch.
jake		If it ain't rainin' we ain't trainin'!
agent 1		Are you Jake Sully?
jake		Step off.    You're ruinin' my good mood.
agent 2		It's about your brother. CUT TO:
jake		Jesus, Tommy.
agent 1		Your brother represented a significant investment. We'd like to talk to you about taking over his contract.
jake		 Are we there?
med tech		We're there, Sunshine.
med tech		People, you have been in cryo for five years, nine months and twenty two days. You will be hungry, you will be weak. If you feel nausea, please use the sacks provided for your convenience. The staff thanks you in advance.
crew chief		Exopacks on!
crew chief		Remember people, you lose your mask you're unconscious in 20 seconds and you're dead in four minutes. Let's nobody be dead today, it looks bad on my report.
crew chief		Exopack on, let's go!
crew chief		Go directly into the base! Do not stop! Go straight inside!
wainfleet		Look at all that new meat.
fike		Check it out, man.    Meals on wheels.
wainfleet		That is just wrong.
jake		What're you two limpdicks starin' at?
wainfleet		Seen a lotta guys leave this place in a wheelchair. Never seen anybody show up in one.
quaritch		... You are on Pandora, ladies and gentlemen. Respect that fact every second of every day.
quaritch		Out beyond that fence every living thing that crawls, flies or squats in the mud wants to kill you and eat your eyes for jujubees.
quaritch		We have an indigenous population of humanoids here called the Na'vi. They're fond of arrows dipped in a neurotoxin which can stop your heart in one minute. We operate -- we live -- at a constant threat condition yellow.
quaritch		As head of security, it's my job to keep you alive.    I will not succeed --  -- not with all of you. If you wish to survive, you need a strong mental attitude, you need to follow procedure...
norm		Hey, you're Jake right? Tom's brother? You look just like him.  Sorry, I'm Norm Spellman, I went through avatar training with him.
norm		He was a great guy -- funny.     It was a big shock to all of us.
jake		Yeah.
norm		And duh! -- obviously you look like him. I mean, if you weren't genetically identical, you wouldn't be taking over his avatar.
jake		That's why I'm here.
norm		So -- you want to go check it out? CUT TO:
max		Me and Norm were out here to drive these remotely controlled bodies called avatars. They're grown from human DNA mixed with DNA from the natives here.
jake		Damn.   They got big.
norm		Yeah, they mature on the trip out.  So the proprioceptive sims worked pretty well.
max		Yeah, they've got great muscle tone. Give us a few hours, you guys can take them for a spin.
jake		It looks like him.
norm		No, it looks like you.   This is your avatar now, Jake.
jake		-- so their nervous systems are in tune. Or something. Which is why they offered me this gig, because I can link with Tommy's avatar, which was insanely expensive.  Is this right? I just say whatever in these videologs?
norm		Yeah. You just need to get in the habit of documenting everything -- what you see, what you feel -- it's all part of the science. Good science starts with good observation.
jake		Right.  Never been in a lab before.
max		Log off. It's time to meet your boss for the next five years.
norm		Grace Augustine is a legend. She's the head of the Avatar Program, and she wrote the book -- I mean literally wrote the book -- on Pandoran botany.
max		 That's because she likes plants better than people.
grace		 Who's got my goddamn cigarette?!
max		And here she is, Cinderella back from the ball. Grace, I'd like you to meet Norm Spellman and Ja --
grace		Norm. I hear good things about you. How's your Na'vi?
norm		 May the All Mother smile upon our first meeting.
grace		 Not bad. You sound a little formal.
norm		 There is still much to learn.
max		Uh, Grace, this is Jake S----
grace		 You know -- the PhD who trained three years for this mission.
jake		He's dead. I know it's a big inconvenience to everyone.
grace		How much lab training have you had?   Ever run a gas chromatograph?
jake		No.
grace		Any actual lab work at all?
jake		High school chemistry.   But I ditched.
grace		You see? You see? They're pissing on us without even the courtesy of calling it rain.  I'm going to Selfridge.
max		Grace, that's not a good idea.
max		Here, tomorrow, oh eight hundred.   Try to use big words. CUT TO:
grace		Parker, I used to think it was benign neglect, but now I see you're intentionally screwing us.
selfridge		Grace.   You know I enjoy our little talks.
grace		I need a research assistant, not some jarhead dropout.
selfridge		Actually, we got lucky with him.
grace		Lucky?   How is this in any way lucky?
selfridge		Well -- lucky your guy had a twin brother, and lucky the brother wasn't an oral hygienist or something. A Marine we can use. I'm assigning him to your team as security escort.
grace		The last thing I need is another trigger happy asshole out there!
selfridge		Look, you're supposed to be winning the hearts and minds of the natives. Isn't that the whole point of your little puppet show? If you look like them, if you talk like them, they'll trust you?
selfridge		But after -- how many years? -- relations with the indigenous are only getting worse.
grace		That tends to happen when you use machine guns on them.
selfridge		This is why we're here. Unobtanium. Because this little gray rock sells for twenty million a kilo. No other reason. This is what pays for the party. And it's what pays for your science. Comprendo?
selfridge		Those savages are threatening our whole operation. We're on the brink of war and you're supposed to be finding a diplomatic solution. So use what you've got and get me some results. CUT TO:
grace		How much link time have you logged?
norm		Five hundred and twenty hours.
jake		Like -- an hour.
grace		Tell me you're joking.
jake		Don't!   I got this.
grace		So you just figured you'd come out here to the most hostile environment known to man, with no training of any kind, and see how it went? What was going through your head?
jake		Maybe I was just tired of doctors telling me what I couldn't do.
grace		Relax and let your mind go blank.    That shouldn't be hard for you.
jake		Kiss the darkest part of my lily white --
max		Initiate link.
max		That's a gorgeous brain.     Nice activity.
grace		Go figure.  Alright, I'm going in.
tech		Phase-lock at forty percent.    He's in transition.
max		That's it.     Find your way home.
max		He's in.
tech		Phase-lock ninety nine percent. The link is stable.
max		Take it slow, Jake. We need to check your motor control. Try touching your fingertips together --
med tech		Easy, Jake, I need you to sit down --
max		Jake! Wait, we have to run some tests --
jake		Grace?
grace		Well who'd you expect, numbnuts?   Think fast!
grace		Motor control is looking good.
norm		I am a living god. CUT TO:
quaritch		For you pogues, this is a banshee. A small one. See, they like it when I bring fresh meat out here. And this clearcutting really stirs up the hornet's nest. So keep your head on a swivel. If it moves, shoot it. If you're not sure it's moving -- shoot it! If it looks like a bunch of flowers you want to take home to Sally Rottencrotch -- SHOOT IT! What're you gonna do?
troopers		Shoot it, sir!
quaritch		Outstanding. Let's roll.
jake		That's kinda freaky.
grace		Lights out amigos.     See ya' at dinner.
grace		 Damn. Same old sack a' bones.
trudy		Sully -- Colonel wants to see you in the Armor Bay.
jake		You guys're packing some heavy ordinance.
trudy		Yeah, `cause we're not the only thing flyin' around out there. Or the biggest. I'm gonna need you on a door gun, I'm a man short.
jake		Yeah, no problem.
trudy		See ya on the flight-line, zero nine.  He's down there.
quaritch		This low gravity makes you soft.  You get soft, Pandora will shit you out dead with zero warning.
quaritch		I pulled your record, Corporal. Venezuela -- that was some mean bush. Nothing like this here, though. You got heart kid, coming out here.
jake		I figured -- just another hellhole.
mechanic		That servo's in, Colonel, if you want to try it.
quaritch		I was in First Recon a few years ahead of you. More than a few. Two tours in Nigeria, not a scratch. I come out here and --
quaritch		They could fix this if I rotated back. But you know what? I kinda like it. Reminds me every day what's out there. Besides, I can't leave --
quaritch		This is my war, here.
quaritch		The avatar program is a joke -- buncha limpdick scientists. But we have a unique opportunity here, you and I. A recon Marine in an avatar body could get me the intel I need, on the ground, right in the hostiles' camp.
quaritch		Looks good.  I need you to learn about these savages, gain their trust. Find out how I can force their cooperation, or hit `em hard if they don't. Maybe you can keep some of my boys from going home like you. Or bagged-and-tagged.
jake		 That sounds real good, Colonel.   So -- am I still with Augustine?
quaritch		On paper. You walk like one of her science pukes, you quack like one, but you report to me. Can you do that for me?
quaritch		Look, son -- I take care of my own. Get me what I need, I'll see you get your legs back when you rotate home. Your real legs.
grace		Start calibrating. We're on the flight line in ten minutes.
grace		What did Atilla want?
jake		Just Marines comparin' tattoos.
grace		 Yeah. Well, listen to me, Marine --
grace		-- you're driving an avatar, now.     That means you're in my world, got it?
jake		Got it.
grace		That son of a bitch has screwed up this program enough. All this --  -- exists so we can go out there and build a bridge of trust to these people, who could teach us so much. But thanks to Quaritch and his thugs the Na'vi won't even talk to us anymore.
jake		Then how's this supposed to work?
grace		We have a new face.  You're fluent, you've studied the culture. You're non-threatening. The ones we know best -- the Omaticaya clan -- may give you a chance. Maybe you can get them back to the table before things go tits-up for good.
norm		This is failing as a pep talk.
jake		How do we contact them?
grace		We don't. They contact us. If they see us taking our samples, treating the forest with respect --  Not trampling everything in sight -- they may reach out to us.
jake		Or they may skin us and make a drum.
grace		Just keep your mouth shut and let Norm do the talking.
grace		Looks like a bull, six cows and some juveniles.
norm		The bull has the red on the dorsal armor?
wainfleet		Yo Chacon!     Get some!
grace		Stay with the ship.  One idiot with a gun's enough.
wainfleet		Whatever you say, Doc.
wainfleet		 Ya'll have fun out there.
grace		Relax, Marine. You're making me nervous.
norm		How will they know we're here?
grace		I'm sure they're watching us right now.
grace		Bring the soil probe -- right there, yellow case.
grace		 The stingbats knock them off. I guess I always hope somebody will come back and read them.
norm		Why don't they come back?
grace		 The Na'vi learned as much about us as they needed to know.
jake		 What happened here?
grace		 Are you going to help with this gear? We've got a lot to do.
grace		See, right here where the roots of the two trees interact.
grace		Don't shoot. You'll piss it off.
jake		It's already pissed off!
grace		Jake, that armor's too thick. Trust me.
grace		It's a territorial threat display. Do not run, or he'll charge.
jake		What do I do?
grace		Hold your ground!
jake		Oh yeah!   Who's bad?! That's right.
jake		That's what I'm talkin' about, bitch!
jake		That's right motherf--
jake		What about this one?       Run, don't run? What?
grace		Run.     Definitely RUN!
grace		Shit.
trudy		Sorry, Doc. He's just gonna have to hang on `till morning.
grace		He's not going to make it till morning.
jake		 I don't have all goddamn night! Come on! Come on!
neytiri		Rrreeyaaah! Hyaaaah!!
neytiri		Raaaarrrr!
jake		Wait, don't --
neytiri		 Forgive me, my brother.
jake		Look, um, I know you probably don't understand this. But -- thanks. Thank you. I owe you.
neytiri		 Forgive me. May your spirit run with the Great Mother.
jake		I would have been screwed if you hadn't come along --
jake		Hey, wait. Wait!   Where you goin'?
jake		Slow down a second will you. I just want to thank you for killing those --
neytiri		Don't thank! You don't thank for this! This is sad. Very sad, only.
jake		Okay, I'm sorry.    Whatever I did -- I'm sorry.
neytiri		All this is your fault! They did not need to die.
jake		They attacked me.   How'm I the bad guy HERE--
neytiri		Your fault! You are like a baby, making noise, don't know what to do. You should not come here, all of you! You only come and make problems. Only.
jake		Okay, fine, you love your little forest friends. So why not just let them kill my ass? What's the thinking?
neytiri		Why save you?
jake		Yes, why save me?
neytiri		You have a strong heart.   No fear.
neytiri		But stupid! Ignorant like a child!
jake		If I'm so ignorant, maybe you should teach me.
neytiri		Sky people can not learn.   You do not See.
jake		Whooaa.
jake		Then teach me to "see."
neytiri		No one can teach you to See.
jake		Hey, slow down. Look, I think we just got off on the wrong foot and --
jake		--you just have to get to know me. I'm Jake. Jake Sull--
jake		Whooaaa -- shit!
jake		I need your help.
neytiri		You should not be here.
jake		So take me with you.
neytiri		No. You go back.
jake		 What?
jake		What are they?
neytiri		Atokirina'. Seeds of the Great Tree -- very pure spirits.
jake		What was that all about?
neytiri		Come! CUT TO:
jake		What's your name?
neytiri		 Tsu'tey, what are you doing?! He is my captive!
neytiri		 Stop! There has been a sign. This is a matter for the Tsahik.
eytukan		 Why do you bring this creature here?
neytiri		 I was going to kill him, but there was a sign from Eywa.
eytukan		 I have said no dreamwalker will come here, to offend our home! His alien smell fills my nose
neytiri		 Father, many atokirina came to this alien.
jake		What's going on?
neytiri		My father is deciding whether to kill you.
jake		Your father!?  Uh, good to meet you, sir.
neytiri		That is Mother. She is Tsahik -- the one who interprets the will of Eywa.
jake		Who's Eywa?
jake		Jake Sully.
jake		I came to learn.
jake		My cup is empty, trust me. Just ask Doctor Augustine. I'm no scientist.
jake		I don't know. I was a Marine -- uh, a warrior. Of the Jarhead clan.
eytukan		 No! This is the first warrior dreamwalker we have seen. We need to learn more about him.
jake		What's going on?   What are they saying?
neytiri		 Why me? That's not fair!     I only--
jake		So it's all good, right?   You and me --
neytiri		Do not speak. CUT TO:
jake		Don't get up.
jake		You never told me your name.
neytiri		Neytiri te Ckaha Mo'at'ite.
jake		Okay, again, a whole lot slower.
neytiri		 Neytiri. Nay-TEE-ree.
jake		Nay-TEE-ree. That's nice. Nay-TEE-ree.
jake		Your mom likes me.    I can tell.
eytukan		You speak truth. We must understand these Sky People if we are to drive them out.
jake		These rock. What are they?
neytiri		Teylu. You call beetle larvae.
jake		That's some damn fine teylu. That's like grandma's teylu.
grace		Come on back, kid, that's it.
jake		Wha --? Oh.
grace		Damn, you were dug in like a tick.  Is the avatar safe?
jake		 Yeah, Doc -- and you are not going to believe where I am. CUT TO:
grace		-- so the kid's out there one night and he's got the Queen Bitch herself offering him the spare room and the car keys. Unbelievable.
jake		It's not something you can teach.
max		That's awesome, Jake.
grace		 For reasons I cannot fathom, the Omaticaya have chosen you. God help us all. CUT TO:
quaritch		Jarhead clan?  And that worked?
jake		 Yeah. They want to study me.   See if I can learn to be one of them.
quaritch		That's how you seize the initiative. I wish I had ten more like you.
selfridge		Look, Sully -- find out what these blue monkeys want. 
selfridge		Their damn village is sitting right over the richest unobtanium deposit for a hundred klicks in any direction. Which sucks -- for them -- because they need to relocate.
jake		 Does Augustine know about this?
selfridge		Yeah, she does, and she's on the next ship back if she tries to cock-block me on it.
jake		So -- who talks them into moving?
quaritch		 Guess.
jake		What if they won't go?
quaritch		 I'm betting they will.
selfridge		Killing the indigenous looks bad, but there's one thing shareholders hate more than bad press -- and that's a bad quarterly statement. Find me a carrot to get them to move, or it's going to have to be all stick.
quaritch		You got three months.    That's when the dozers get there.
jake		I'm on it. CUT TO:
jake		Tsu'tey.  Eytukan.
grace		He's the clan leader --  -- but she's the spiritual leader.   Like a shaman.
jake		Got it. So who's this Eywa?
norm		Who's Eywa? Oh, only their deity. The Great Mother. The goddess made up of all living things. You'd know that if you had any training whatsoever.
jake		Who's got a date with the chief's daughter?
grace		Knock it off. Jesus, it's like kindergarten around here.
grace		Neytiri was my best student. She and her sister Silwanin. Just amazing girls.
jake		I didn't meet the sister.
grace		 Okay, let's go -- village life starts early.
max		Link is ready.
grace		Don't do anything unusually stupid.
neytiri		This is shahaylu -- the bond. Feel her heartbeat, her breath. Feel her strong legs.
neytiri		You may tell her what to do --  -- inside. For now, say where to go.
jake		Forward.
neytiri		Again.
jake		 I knew this guy could speak English.
neytiri		Again. CUT TO:
jake		You've got outer columns, then a secondary ring here, and an inner ring. Then a core structure, it's like a spiral, that's how they move up and down.
quaritch		I'm going to need accurate scans of all these columns.
jake		Roger that.
grace		I'm not about to let Quaritch and Selfridge micro-manage this thing. 
norm		The Hallelujah Mountains?
grace		That's right.
norm		Yesssss!  The legendary Floating Mountains of Pandora? Heard of them? CUT TO:
trudy		It only takes tiny inputs.   Here, put your hand on the cyclic --
trudy		Feel how small the moves are? You barely have to think it, and the aircraft reacts.
grace		See these magnetic formations.   We're getting close.
trudy		Yeah we are. Look at my instruments.
grace		Yup. We're in the flux vortex.
norm		Oh. My. God.
trudy		You should see your face.
grace		Jake, take number two, it's the least glitchy. Norm, I need you to operate Jake's link.
jake		Hey. You got a problem?
norm		I trained three years for this mission. I speak the language fluently.  He falls off the frickin' turnip truck and all of a sudden he's cultural ambassador!?
grace		It's not our choice, Norm.
norm		Yeah, well I didn't come out here to wash the dishes while you're on some interspecies booty call.
grace		He can't go far.
grace		Let's get you in. CUT TO:
jake		Holy shit.
neytiri		Do not look in her eye.
neytiri		Ikran is not horse. Once shahaylu is made, ikran will fly with only one Hunter in the whole life.
neytiri		To become taronyu -- Hunter -- you must choose your own ikran. And he must choose you.
jake		When?
neytiri		When you are ready.
neytiri		Heeyaaahh!
jake		Do I have to do this?   I need some rack.
grace		No -- now, when it's fresh.
jake		Yeah, yeah.  The days are starting to blur together. The language is a bitch, but I figure it's like field-stripping a weapon. Repetition.
jake		Seyri.
jake		Ontu, mikyun, nari.
norm		Thank you?
jake		Ireiyo.
norm		Irrrreiyo. Irrrreiyo.   You've gotta roll the R, r-r-r-oll it.
grace		 I See you, Neytiri Mo'at'ite.
neytiri		I See you, Doctor Grace Augustine.
neytiri		When you hear nothing, you will hear everything. When you see nothing, you will See everything.
jake		 I just hope this treehugger shit isn't on the final.
grace		 This isn't just about eye-hand coordination out there. You need to listen to what she says. Try to see the forest through their eyes.
jake		Excuse me -- this is my video-log here, okay?
jake		 I See you Brother, and thank you. Your spirit goes with Eywa, your body stays behind to become part of the People.
neytiri		A clean kill. You are ready. CUT TO:
grace		You're still losing weight.   Here --
jake		I made a kill today. We ate it.   I know where that meal came from.
grace		Other body. You need to take care of this body.
jake		Yeah yeah.
grace		Jake, I'm serious -- you look like crap. You're burning too hard.
jake		Get rid of this shit, then you can lecture me.
grace		I'm telling you, as your boss and someone who might even consider being a friend someday, to take some down time.
jake		Not now. Tomorrow we leave for Iknimaya.
grace		Yeah -- you're gonna go ride a banshee. Or die trying.
jake		That's right, Grace. This is what I've been working for.
grace		And this is your check up from the neck up, Marine. You're getting in way too deep.  Trust me, I learned the hard way.
jake		What did happen at the school?
grace		Neytiri's sister -- Sylwanin -- stopped coming to school. She was angry about the clear-cutting.
grace		One day, she and a couple of other young hunters came running in, all painted up -- they'd set a bulldozer on fire -- I guess they thought I could protect them.
grace		The troopers pursued them to the schoolhouse.
grace		They killed Sylwanin in the doorway. Right in front of Neytiri. Then shot the others.  I got most of the kids out, before they shot me.
jake		Jesus.
grace		Yeah.
grace		A scientist stays objective -- we can not be ruled by emotion. But I poured ten years of my life into that school. They called me sa'atenuk. Mother.  That kind of pain reaches back through the link.
grace		It's a job. Learn what you can -- but don't get attached.
grace		It's not our world, Jake.   And we can't stop what's coming. CUT TO:
jake		We doin' this?
neytiri		 Now you choose your ikran. This you must feel -- inside. If he also chooses you, move quick, like I showed. You will have one chance.
jake		How will I know if he chooses me?
neytiri		He will try to kill you.
jake		Outstanding.
jake		Let's dance.
jake		That's right! You're mine.
neytiri		First flight seals the bond. You cannot wait.
jake		Heeeyyyaaaah!
jake		Shut the hell up!!
jake		Level out!     Fly straight!
grace		The Great Leonopteryx is the apex aerial predator. Not only rare, but the sightings tend not to get reported.
trudy		There usually isn't time to key the mike.
jake		The People call it Toruk.
norm		 Last Shadow.
jake		Last one you ever see.
trudy		I saw one take out a gunship once -- WHAM! Total frickin' yard sale. Ate the crew like peanuts.
jake		That's it.
grace		Vitraya Ramunong -- The Well of Souls. It's their most sacred place.
grace		Something big is going on in there, biologically. I'd die to get samples, but outsiders are strictly forbidden.
trudy		They're coming back.
trudy		If you don't give him something, he's gonna shut us down.
jake		Hey, guys. CUT TO:
neytiri		My grandfather's grandfather was Toruk Macto -- Rider of Last Shadow. Toruk chose him. It has only happened five times since the time of the First Songs.
jake		That's a long time.
neytiri		Toruk Macto was mighty -- he brought the clans together in a time of great sorrow. All Na'vi people know this story.
grace		Watch that stuff.   It'll knock you into next week.
jake		Sorry.
neytiri		You must dance! It is the way.
jake		 I can barely remember my old life. I'm not sure who I am anymore. CUT TO:
selfridge		Good of you to stop by. How's it going out there? Our blue friends all packed up yet?
selfridge		See, I keep hooking it.   It's the damn pack.
selfridge		The low gravity and the high air density cancel out so --
jake		You called us back to report -- you want to hear it or not?
selfridge		Go ahead.
grace		Jake is making incredible progress, years worth in just a few months. But -- we need more time.
selfridge		Not what I was hoping to hear.
grace		Parker, it's their ancestral home. They've lived there since before human history began. You can spare them a few more weeks.
selfridge		This thing is inevitable. What does it matter when it happens? I'm sorry, Dr. Augustine. You're out of time.
quaritch		You're not gettin' lost in the woods, are you son?
quaritch		Your last report was two weeks ago. I'm starting to doubt your resolve. From what I see, it's time to terminate this mission.
jake		No.    I can do this.
quaritch		Look, you've given me plenty of usable intel. Like this "Well of Souls" place -- I've got them by the balls with that, when it turns into a shit-fight. Which it will.
quaritch		So you'll get your legs back, like I promised.  It's time to come in.
jake		I've gotta finish this thing. There's one more test -- the Dream Hunt. It's the final stage of becoming a man. Then I'm one of them. They'll trust what I say...
jake		... and I can negotiate the terms of their relocation.
quaritch		Then you need to get it done, Corporal. CUT TO:
grace		Jake, I can't allow this.   You're just not strong enough.
jake		It's the last door -- I'm going through it. You can help me or get out of the way.
norm		Calibrating. Thirty seconds.
grace		No matter what you prove out there-- you are still in here.  Right here.
jake		I have to go all the way -- become one of THEM--
grace		 Goddammit, Jake, you can never be one of them!
grace		Our life out there takes millions of dollars of machinery to sustain. You visit -- and you leave.
grace		 You can never truly be with her.
jake		You know why I'm here? Because Quaritch sent me.
norm		What?
jake		That's right -- to embed with the Omaticaya. To find out how to screw them out of their home. By deceit or by force, he didn't care. And if it turned out to be force, then how best to do it.
grace		And what about now, Jake?
jake		I'm not that guy any more.
grace		I know.
jake		But if I tell Quaritch the truth, he yanks me out -- I never see her again. And if I tell her the truth, the clan throws me out -- that's if they don't cut my heart out and show it to me.
norm		They won't understand what you've done.
jake		They don't even have a word for "lie" -- they had to learn it from us.
grace		I know. I taught it to them.
jake		 Grace. I've gotta go.   They're waiting.
norm		Link is ready.
grace		Jake. You can't carry this burden much longer.
jake		 It's okay. Mo'at says an alien mind probably can't survive the Dream Hunt anyway.
grace		 Prep my link. I'm going in. CUT TO:
neytiri		When your Spirit Animal comes, you will know.
eytukan		 Did your Spirit Animal come?
eytukan		 You are now a son of the Omaticaya.   You are part of the People.
neytiri		This is a place for prayers to be heard. And sometimes answered.
jake		It's like -- a sound you feel.
neytiri		We call this utraya mokri -- the Tree of Voices. The voices of our ancestors, who live within Eywa.
neytiri		You are Omaticaya now. You may make your own bow from the wood of Hometree.  And you may choose a woman.
neytiri		We have many fine women. Ninat is the best singer --
jake		I don't want Ninat.
neytiri		There is Beyral -- she is a good hunter --
jake		I've already chosen. But this woman must also choose me.
neytiri		She already has.
neytiri		Kissing is very good. But we have something better.
jake		Neytiri, you know my real body is far away, sleeping.
neytiri		This body is real.  This spirit is real.
neytiri		When I was first your teacher, I hated all Sky People. But you have also taught me.  Spirit is all that matters.
neytiri		I am with you now, Jake. We are mated for life.
jake		We are?
neytiri		Yes. It is our way.  Oh. I forgot to tell?
jake		Really, we are?
neytiri		We are.
jake		It's cool. I'm there.
neytiri		Jake! Wake up! Where ever you are, come back to me now. Jake!
grace		Here -- eat this. I'd hate to have to force-feed a cripple.
grace		 She's not going anywhere.
grace		And when was the last time you took a shower? Jesus, Marine.
jake		Hey!    Heeeey! Stop! Stop!
operator		Hey, I got one of the natives blockin' my blade here.
supervisor		 What do we do?
selfridge		Roll on. He'll move. These people have to learn that we don't stop.
operator		I'm blind.
quaritch		Freeze it, right -- there.
selfridge		Son of a bitch!
quaritch		Get me a pilot! CUT TO:
eytukan		 Tsu'tey will lead the war party!
grace		 Please -- this will only make it worse --
jake		 Okay, listen. There's something I have to tell you. It's gonna be hard. I just need you to --
grace		Oh shit.
neytiri		 We are mated before Eywa. It is done.
neytiri		I have chosen.
eytukan		 Stop! This is not a proper challenge.
grace		Jake, don't --
jake		I accept. CUT TO:
trudy		Loveshack this is Samson One Six inbound hot to your pos. I have Colonel Quaritch with me and --
quaritch		Did I tell you to announce us?
trudy		Sorry sir, it's procedure.
norm		Samson One Six?   Trudy?  Crap.
grace		What the hell are you doing?
jake		It's the only way to get him to goddamn listen.
norm		Hey, hang on, you can't interrupt a link in progress, it's dangerous -- wait!
jake		Are you out of your goddamn mind?!
quaritch		You crossed a line.
quaritch		You let me down, son. You got a little local pussy and completely forgot what team you play for.
grace		Parker, listen, there may still be time to --
quaritch		Shut your fucking hole!
grace		Or what, Ranger Rick? You gonna shoot me?  You need to muzzle your dog!
selfridge		Can we just take this down a couple notches, please.
jake		 You say you want to keep your people alive. Start by listening to her.
grace		 This is bad, Parker. Those trees were sacred to the Omaticaya in a way you can't imagine.
selfridge		You know what? You throw a stick in the air around here it falls on some sacred fern.
grace		I'm not talking about pagan voodoo here -- I'm talking about something real and measurable in the biology of the forest.
selfridge		 Which is what exactly?
grace		 I can't do this. How am I supposed to reduce years of work to a sound bite for the illiterate?
jake		Just tell him what you know in your heart.
grace		Alright, look -- I don't have the answers yet, I'm just now starting to even frame the questions. What we think we know -- is that there's some kind of electrochemical communication between the roots of the trees. Like the synapses between neurons. Each tree has ten to the fourth connections to the trees around it, and there are ten to the twelfth trees on Pandora --
selfridge		That's a lot I'm guessing.
grace		That's more connections than the human brain. You get it? It's a network -- a global network. And the Na'vi can access it -- they can upload and download data -- memories -- at sites like the one you destroyed.
selfridge		What the hell have you people been smoking out there? They're just. Goddamn. Trees.
grace		You need to wake up, Parker. The wealth of this world isn't in the ground -- it's all around us. The Na'vi know that, and they're fighting to defend it. If you want to share this world with them, you need to understand them.
quaritch		We understand them just fine.   Thanks to Jake here.
quaritch		Since a deal can't be made -- it gets real simple.  So thanks. I'm getting all emotional.    I might just give you a big wet kiss.
grace		Parker, we have to talk, like rational people.
selfridge		Well, I'd cherish that, but unfortunately you're out of here on the next shuttle. All of you. I'm shutting down the Avatar Program, effective now.
wainfleet		They hit with banshees first. Set the ampsuit on fire. Driver's toast.
quaritch		The rest of the squad?
wainfleet		Six bodies -- that's all of `em. And the equipment is totalled.
selfridge		Christ.
quaritch		I can do it with minimal casualties to the indigenous. We'll clear them out with gas first. It'll be humane. More or less.
quaritch		Hey, don't go limp on me now. This is exactly the incident we needed.
selfridge		Alright, let's pull the trigger. CUT TO:
grace		They bulldozed a sacred site on purpose, to trigger a response. They're fabricating this war to get what they want.
norm		I can't believe that.
jake		Yup. That's how it's done. When people are sitting on shit you want, you make them your enemy. Then you're justified in taking it.
trudy		Sec-ops is rolling the gunships.   They're gonna hit Hometree!
jake		When?
trudy		Now.    We're spooling up now! I gotta go.
grace		My God.
grace		Parker, wait. Stop! These are people you're about to --
selfridge		They're fly-bitten savages who live in a tree! Look around -- I don't know about you but I see a lot of trees. They can move.
grace		For God's sake, there are children in there. Babies!
jake		Look Selfridge, you don't want this kind of blood on your hands. Let me try to talk them out. They trust me.
selfridge		You've got one hour. Unless you want your girlfriend in there when the axe comes down, you get them to evacuate. One hour.
jake		 Eytukan, I have something to say, to everyone.
eytukan		 Speak, Jakesully.
jake		 A great evil is upon us. The Sky People are coming to destroy Hometree. They will be here soon.
jake		 You have to leave, or you will die.
jake		They sent me here to learn your ways. So one day I could bring this message, and you would believe it.
neytiri		What are you saying, Jake? You knew this would happen?
jake		Yes.  -- with you. And by then, how could I tell you?
neytiri		I trusted you, Jake!
jake		Neytiri. Please, I only wanted to --
neytiri		You will never be one of the People! NEVER!
tsutey		 Bind them.
quaritch		Well, I'd say diplomacy has failed.
quaritch		I think they mean to cut their throats if we don't back off. Make sure you get a nice close-up of that. I can tack it onto the after-action report.
jake		You have to get out of Hometree! Run to the forest! Please, I'm begging you!
eytukan		 Take the ikran! Attack from above!
quaritch		Alright, let's get this done. Give me forty millimeter gas rounds, right in the front door.
gunner		Roger.   CS forties. Going hot.
quaritch		Fire.
eytukan		 Everybody outside! Go to the Forest.
jake		We've gotta move!    He's gonna blow the columns.
quaritch		That's how you scatter the roaches. Okay, switch missiles. Give me H-E's at the base of the west columns.
trudy		Screw it.
quaritch		Bring it down.
quaritch		Nice work people. Alright, let's light it up.
jake		Neytiri!   Neytiri!
eytukan		 Daughter -- take my bow. Protect the People.
jake		I'm sorry --
neytiri		Get away from me, Jake. Go away! Never come back!
selfridge		Pull the plug.
grace		They never wanted us to succeed.
trudy		Personally I think steak's too good for these traitors.
guard		They get steak?    That's bullshit. Let me see that --
trudy		Oops.  All the way down, pendejo.
max		That was unexpectedly satisfying.
norm		Baby, you rock.
jake		 Thanks.
jake		So what do you say?    Time for a revolution?
grace		I'm free.
jake		Come on. CUT TO:
jake		 Get your ship fired up.
jake		Stay here. I need somebody on the inside I can trust.
trooper		I need you to shut down and step out of the vehicle! Now!
jake		Take it nice and easy, troop.
jake		On the ground, face down. Hands behind your head.
grace		Do what he goddamn says!
jake		Go! Go! Go!
jake		Oh yeah, baby!
grace		Aaahh, crap. Not again.
grace		This is gonna ruin my whole day.
jake		Hang on, Grace. CUT TO:
trudy		Well, at least they won't be able to track us up here. Not this deep in the vortex.
jake		It's strongest at the Well of Souls, right?
trudy		Yeah.
jake		Good, `cause that's where we're going.
trudy		Copy.
jake		I'm gonna get you some help, Grace.
grace		Forget it, it doesn't matter.
jake		No!   The People can help you. I know it. CUT TO:
norm		 Tsu'tey is Olo'eyctan now. He's not going to let you get near that place.
jake		I've gotta try, Norm.
jake		Come on, boy. Time to fly.
neytiri		 Toruk Macto.
neytiri		 Toruk Macto!
crowd		Toruk Macto... Toruk Macto...
neytiri		I See you.
jake		 I See you.
neytiri		I was afraid Jake -- for my people. I'm not any more.
jake		 You are Olo'eyctan, and you are the best warrior. I can't do this without you.
jake		Ireiyo.
jake		Grace is dying.     I beg the help of the Great Mother.
jake		Look where we are, Grace.
grace		 I need to take some samples.
jake		Is that possible?
jake		Hang on, they're gonna fix you up.
grace		I -- always held back. But you gave them your heart. I'm proud of you, Jake.
grace		Help them.     You do whatever it takes. You hear me?
jake		I will.
grace		I'm with her Jake --  -- she's real --
jake		Grace!
jake		With your permission, I will Speak now. You would honor me by translating.
jake		The Sky People have sent a message that they can take whatever they want, and no one can stop them. But we will send them a message. Ride out, as fast as the wind can carry you, tell the other clans to come. Tell them Toruk Macto calls to them. Fly now with me brothers and sisters! Fly! And we will show the Sky People that this is our land!
quaritch		People, you are fighting for survival. There's an aboriginal horde out there massing for an attack. First slide.
quaritch		These orbital images show the hostiles' numbers have gone from a couple of hundred to over two thousand in one day, and more are pouring in. By next week it could be twenty thousand. Then they'll be overrunning our perimeter here. We can't wait. Our only security lies in pre- emptive attack. We will fight terror with terror.
quaritch		Next slide. This mountain stronghold is supposedly protected by their deity. When we destroy it, we will blast a crater in their racial memory so deep they won't come within a thousand klicks of this place. CUT TO:
selfridge		This thing is completely out of control!
selfridge		Listen to me! I am not authorizing you to turn the mine-workers local into a freakin' militia!
quaritch		I declared threat condition red. That puts all on-world assets under my command.
selfridge		You think you can pull this palace coup shit on me?! I can have your ass with one call --
quaritch		You're a long way from Earth.
quaritch		 Get him out of here.
selfridge		You touch me you're so fired.
max		I don't know how secure this channel is.
jake		Talk fast.
max		It's crazy here, Jake. It's full mobilization. They're rigging the shuttles as bombers. They've made up these big pallets of mine explosives. It's for some kind of shock and awe campaign.
trudy		Frickin' daisycutters.
norm		Holy shit.
jake		 Can you talk to Selfridge? Maybe we can cut some kinda deal before this thing goes all the way.
max		No, Quaritch has taken over. He's rolling and there's no stopping him.
jake		When?
max		Oh six hundred tomorrow.
jake		Thanks.
norm		We're screwed.
trudy		You know he's gonna commit those bombers straight to the Well of Souls.
jake		That's right. Because I gave it to him on a plate.
trudy		We both did.
norm		If he takes out the Well of Souls -- it's over. It's their main line to Eywa, to their ancestors -- it'll destroy them.
jake		Then I guess we better stop him.
trudy		You need to get some rack.
jake		Gonna have to settle for coffee. CUT TO:
jake		 Strike here and here.
trudy		 You know our chances suck.
jake		Yeah.
trudy		Going up against gunships with bows and arrows...
jake		What's your point?
trudy		 Right.
jake		I've never done this in my life.
jake		And I'm probably just talking to a tree right now. But if you're there -- I need to give you a heads up.
jake		If Grace is there with you -- look in her memories -- she can show you the world we come from. There's no green there. They killed their Mother, and they're gonna do the same thing here.
jake		More Sky People are gonna come. They're gonna come like a rain that never ends --
jake		-- until they've covered the world. Unless we stop them. 
neytiri		Our Great Mother does not take sides. She protects only the balance of life.
jake		It was worth a try.
wainfleet		Contact. Two hundred meters.
quaritch		Fire for effect.
norm		Jake!   Jake! We're falling back!
quaritch		Blue team, switch forties.   Fire at will.
troopers		Yeah baby!     Get some!
quaritch		Blue team, stay with the ground units. Red team, with me. We're punching for the main target.
trudy		You're not the only ones with guns, you pricks.
quaritch		There it is.  Valkyrie One, this is Dragon. Target is in sight.
trooper		Target in sight.
jake		We have to stop the shuttles, no matter what it takes.
wainfleet		I hear this is worse than death for you, chief.
trooper		Right flank -- something's coming!   It's all lit up out there.
jake		What the hell -- ?
jake		WHOO-HOOOO!
wainfleet		A and C squads -- rally at my pos.   I want --  Who's screaming God damn it?!
wainfleet		Shutup you crybabies!
max		Rogue One, Rogue One, this is Max.   Tell Jake we are in motion.  Get in there. Barricade the door!
pilot		Mains to a hundred percent!   Get me airspeed!
pilot		We're good!
pilot		Valkyrie Two is breaking off. And if any of ya'll want to get off this piece of shit planet, you better cover our ass, `cause we're the only way back to orbit.
gunship pilot		Roger that.
quaritch		Get back here you worthless pukes!
pilot		Are we breaking off?
quaritch		What do you think?
selfridge		 What the hell is going on out there? CUT TO:
pilot		Sir, all ground units are falling back to the LZ.
quaritch		Stay on target.
quaritch		Switch missiles. Arm all pods.
pilot		Arming.
quaritch		Let's see what these blue bastards do when I bitch-slap their goddess.
quaritch		 Put your mask on.
jake		 Quaritch is gonna take out the Well of Souls! He's got a clear shot. Hit him, anybody that can! Do it now!
trudy		On it.
norm		No!
trudy		 Norm, I love you.
trooper		Dragon is down. It's off the board.
selfridge		What do you mean, off the board?!
selfridge		Oh shit.
quaritch		Nothing's over while I'm breathing.
jake		Kinda hoped you'd say that.
quaritch		How does it feel to betray your own race?
jake		I See you, Tsu'tey te Rongloa Ateyitan.
jake		They're safe.
jake		No. I'm not officer material.
jake		I'm not killing you.
jake		No.
jake		 Forgive me, my Brother. Go now to the Mother Spirit.
jake		The science guys will keep the lights on, here. But I won't miss this place.
****Dialogues from script :Avengers.txt****

nick fury		How bad is it?
nick fury		NASA didn't authorize Selvig to test phase.
nick fury		What are the energy levels now?
nick fury		How long to get everyone out?
nick fury		Do better.
nick fury		We should tell them to go back to sleep?
nick fury		I need you to make sure that PHASE 2 prototypes are shipped out.
nick fury		Until such time as the world ends, we will act as though it intends to spin on. Clear out the tech below. Every piece of PHASE 2 on a truck and gone.
nick fury		Talk to me, doctor. DR. ERIK SELVIG emerges from behind the CMS machine, concerned. The Tesseract is glowing unusually brighter and flare rings shoot out at random.
selvig		Director.
nick fury		Is there anything we know for certain?
selvig		Tesseract is misbehaving.
nick fury		Is that supposed to be funny?
selvig		No, it's not funny at all. The Tesseract is not only active, she's...misbehaving.
nick fury		How soon until you pull the plug?
selvig		She's an energy source. If we turn off the power, she turns it back on. If she reaches peak level...
nick fury		We've prepared for this, doctor. Harnessing energy from space.
selvig		We don't have the harness. Our calculations are far from complete. Now she's throwing off interference, radiation. Nothing harmful, low levels of gamma radiation.
nick fury		That can be harmful. Where's Barton?
selvig		The Hawk? Up in his nest, as usual. We see CLINT BARTON, dressed in black tactical gear, is up on the railings watching them below, Fury calls Barton on his earpiece.
nick fury		Agent Barton, report. BARTON rappels down from the catwalk. Walks up to Fury. They both walk around the facility in a discreet manner.
nick fury		I gave you this detail so you could keep a close eye on things.
clint barton		Well, I see better from a distance.
nick fury		Are you seeing anything that might set this thing off?
clint barton		No one's come or gone. It's oven is clean. No contacts, no I.M.'s. If there was any tampering, sir, it wasn't at this end.
nick fury		At this end?
clint barton		Yeah, the cube is a doorway to the other end of space, right? The doors open from both sides. DR. SELVIG clacks away at the keyboard and sees on the monitoring his worst nightmares. Suddenly- the Tesseract THUNDERS and SHAKES the entire facility. Big enough where both Agents Hill and Coulson can feel and they're at different ends of the facility. The flaring rings and glow of the cube spout out brighter and louder, like a boiling pot of water. The Tesseract's energy builds up into a BEAM much like the Bifrost Bridge, which HITS at the end of a platform that is wired to the CMS device. The great maelstrom beam FIRES the TESSERACT energy. The beam then forms a VORTEX, which then opens up a PORTAL. A BLACK HOLE IS CREATED. From the portal, the blackness of SPACE, beautiful and mysterious, strewn with a billion stars appears and a GUST of BLUE ENERGY CLOUDS fill the room, blinding everyone. The Tesseract's energy forms into a cloud that reaches to the top the facility's vacuum chamber ceiling. It's abnormally quiet. Then... HEAVY BREATHING is heard from the platform. SHIELD GUARDS slowly approach, weapons in hands. A figure is kneeling on the platform, smoke coming off it. It's LOKI. Smiling in his mischievous manner, he raises his head. The smile dies down. He looks deep into the eyes of Fury, Barton and Selvig. He stands up, holing the scepter.
nick fury		Sir, please put down the spear! Loki looks at his spear then suddenly points it at where Fury and Barton are standing and SHOOTS OUT A BLUE EXPLODING LIGHT TOWARDS THEM. BARTON TACKLES Fury and they both barely miss Loki's fired shot. ALL HELL BREAKS. Machine gun fire is shot at Loki, but the bullets bounce off him like a boss. Loki jumps high from the platform and ATTACKS those firing at him. In the blink of an eye, Loki takes down several guards with his KNIVES and ENERGY BLASTS from the scepter. He stops and waits to see who will attack him next. Honestly, the whole lab has almost gone to shit. Barton tries to stand up. Loki quickly walks towards him. Barton raises his gun, but Loki grabs Barton's hand.
loki		You have heart. Loki points the head of his spear at Barton's head. Barton's eyes suddenly glow BLACK. The ability to control Barton's mind is now in Loki's hand. Barton puts his piece away and stands straight. As Loki is busy using his abilities to control the minds of several S.H.I.E.L.D. personnel, Fury takes the Tesseract, placing it back into its case and tries to leave the lab.Then...
loki		Please don't. I still need that.
loki		Of course it does. I've come too far for anything else. I am Loki of Asgard, and I am burdened with glorious purpose.
selvig		Loki? Brother of Thor?
nick fury		We have no quarrel with your people.
loki		An ant has no quarrel with a boot.
nick fury		You planning to step on us?
loki		I come with glad tidings, of a world made free.
nick fury		Free from what?
loki		Freedom. Freedom is life's great lie. Once you accept that, in your heart... Like a gunslinger, Loki turns to face Selvig who's standingbehind him and places his spear against Selvig's heart. Selvig's eyes glow BLACK.
loki		You will know peace.
nick fury		Yeah, you say peace, I kind of think you mean the other thing. From the vacuum chamber ceiling, Tesseract's energy cloud RAPIDLY builds into what may be an implosion.
clint barton		Sir, Director Fury is stalling. This place is about to blow. Drop a hundred feet of rock on us. He means to bury us.
nick fury		Like The Pharaohs of Odin.
selvig		He's right. The portal is collapsing in on itself. You got maybe two minutes before this goes critical.
loki		Well, then... Loki, looking at Barton, who doesn't even hesitate, SHOOTS FURY WHO FALLS TO THE GROUND. Barton grabs the case containing the Tesseract and leaves the lab with Loki, Selvig and the other S.H.I.E.L.D personnel Loki is controlling.
clint barton		 Need these vehicles.
clint barton		He didn't tell me. Agent Hill looks suspiciously at them as they get into the truck and turns to leave, as she's walking away...
nick fury		 Hill, do you copy?! Loki and Barton SHARPLY look at Agent Hill.
nick fury		Barton is...
nick fury		He's got the Tesseract! Track it down! The energy is really brewing a fucking shit storm from the vacuum chamber ceiling.
nick fury		The Tesseract is with the hostile force. I have men down. Hill?
nick fury		Sound the general call. I want every living soul not working rescue looking for that brief case.
nick fury		Coulson, get back to base. This is a LEVEL SEVEN. As of right now, we are at war. A beat.
luchkov		This is not how I wanted the evening to go.
natasha		I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.
luchkov		I'd like to know why they sent you to carry out a carrier, a stained glass and other random items. TALL THUG rocks her chair back, balancing her off the edge of an open floor. Natasha is now scared.
natasha		I thought General Soholob was in charge of the export business.
luchkov		Soholob? Your reputation is quite a progression. THE FAMOUS BLACK WIDOW. Nothing but a pretty face.
natasha		You really think I'm pretty? LUCHKOV slowly walks over to a table filled with tools. He picks up a pair of pliers. TALL THUG opens up her mouth wide open.
luchkov		We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks. Tell him, well,...
weaselly thug		Ya?  It's for you. LUCHKOV takes the phone, pissed.
luchkov		Who the hell is...
natasha		Are you kidding? I'm working!
natasha		I'm in the middle of an interrogation and this moron is giving me everything.
luchkov		I don't give everything. Natasha gives him a look.
natasha		Look, you can't pull me out of this right now.
natasha		Let me put you on hold. She nods to LUCHKOV. As Luchkov comes to take the phone off her, Natasha HITS him with her leg and HEADBUUTS him. Like a spider, she stands up elegantly and starts ATTACKING TALL THUG by KICKBOXING him in the face. Still tied, she ROLLS over WEASELLY THUG after she trips him. She then STOMPS on TALL THUG foot with peg of the chair, then
natasha		Where's Barton now?
natasha		But he's alive.
natasha		Coulson, you know that Stark trusts me about as far as he can throw me.
natasha		Bozhe moi.
attending woman		What are doing here?! Get out! You shouldn't be here!
little girl		I have to see the doctor! It's my father!
banner		Calm down. What's wrong?
little girl		My father... Banner looks behind him seeing how the girl is staring at a few people, lying down, looking very sick.
banner		Is he like them? The LITTLE GIRL holds out all the money she has in the world.
little girl		Please.
banner		Should have got paid up front, Banner. Natasha then appears from behind the curtains. Banner turns around, quietly.
natasha		You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle.
banner		Avoiding stress isn't the secret.
natasha		Then, what is it? Yoga?
banner		You brought me to the edge of the city, smart. I uh... assume the whole place is surrounded?
natasha		Just you and me.
banner		And your actress buddy, is she a spy too? Do they start that young?
natasha		I did.
banner		Who are you?
natasha		Natasha Romanoff.
banner		Are you here to kill me, Miss Romanoff? Because that's not gonna work out for everyone.
natasha		No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.
banner		SHIELD. How did they find me?
natasha		We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.
banner		Why?
natasha		Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.
banner		What if I said no?
natasha		I'll persuade you.
banner		And what if the... other guy says no?
natasha		You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.
banner		I don't always get what I want.
natasha		Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.
banner		Well, those I actively try to avoid.
natasha		This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet. She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.
banner		What does Fury want me to do? Swallow it?
natasha		Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.
banner		So Fury isn't after the monster?
natasha		Not that he's told me.
banner		And he tells you everything?
natasha		Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.
banner		He needs me in a cage?
natasha		No one's gonna put you in a...
banner		I'm sorry, that was mean. I just wanted to see what you'd do. Why don't we do this the easy way, where you don't use that, and the other guy doesn't make a mess? Okay? Natasha... Natasha, still wary, doesn't lower her gun. She lowers her gun and speaks into her earpiece.
natasha		Stand down. We're good here.
banner		Just you and me? Natasha fidgets now that she exposed her guard down.
nick fury		You ever been in a war, Councilman? In a firefight? Did you feel an overabundance of control?
nick fury		Not Asgard. Loki.
nick fury		Our intelligence says, Thor is not a hostile. But he's worlds away, we can't depend on him to help. It's up to us.
nick fury		PHASE 2 isn't ready, our enemy is. We need a response team.
nick fury		This isn't about The Avengers.
nick fury		I'm not leaving anything to anyone. We need a response team. These people maybe isolated, unbalanced even, but I believe with the right push they can be exactly what we need.
nick fury		No, it's won by soldiers.
shield scientist		This guy is still alive!
nick fury		Trouble sleeping?
steve		I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.
nick fury		Then you should be out, celebrating, seeing the world. Steve stops punching and walks over to the bench, unraveling the tape off his hands. He sits down.
steve		I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.
nick fury		We've made some mistakes along the way. Some very recently.
steve		You here with a mission, sir?
nick fury		I am.
steve		Trying to get me back in the world?
nick fury		Trying to save it. Fury hands Steve a file on the Tesseract, along with other files on HYDRA'S projects.
steve		Hydra's secret weapon.
nick fury		Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you. He thought what we think, the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy. That's something the world sorely needs.
steve		Who took it from you?
nick fury		He's called Loki. He's not from around here. There's a lot we'll have to bring you up to speed on if you're in. The world has gotten even stranger than you already know.
steve		At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.
nick fury		Ten bucks says you're wrong. There's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment. Steve turns and picks up a punching bag. Starts walking out of the gym.
nick fury		Is there anything you can tell us about the Tesseract that we ought to know now?
steve		You should have left it in the ocean.
tony		You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.
pepper potts		 You disconnected the transition lines? Are we off the grid?
tony		Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.
pepper		Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over and it actually works?
tony		I assume. Light her up. As IRON MAN flies to the STARK TOWER BUILDING, the power is switched on and the STARK sign LIGHTS UP.
pepper		How does it look?
tony		Like Christmas, but with more... me.
pepper		Gotta go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I can do some more tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next billboards.
tony		Pepper, you're killing me. Remember? Enjoy the moment.
pepper		Then get in here and I will. TONY arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his IRON MAN suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.
jarvis		Sir, Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line.
tony		I'm not in. I'm actually out.
jarvis		Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.
tony		Close the line Jarvis. I got a date.
pepper		Levels are holding steady... I think.
tony		Of course they are, I was directly involved. Which brings me to my next question: how does it feel to be a genius?
pepper		Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?
tony		What do you mean? All this came from you.
pepper		No. All this came from that. Points to the energy in his chest plate.
tony		Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.
pepper		Twelve percent?
tony		An argument can be made for fifteen.
pepper		Twelve percent? For my baby?
tony		Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.
pepper		Oooooh.
tony		My private elevator...
pepper		You mean OUR elevator?
tony		...was teeming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I? Pepper pours herself and Tony a glass of champagne.
pepper		Not gonna be that subtle.
tony		I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.
pepper		On the lease.
tony		...Call your mom, can you bunk over?
jarvis		Sir, the telephone. I'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten.
tony		You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.
tony		Then leave it urgently. At that moment the elevator door opens and Coulson appears.
tony		Security breach.
pepper		Phil! Come in.
tony		Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.
pepper		Come on in, we're celebrating.
tony		Which is why he can't stay.
tony		I don't like being handed things.
pepper		That's alright, `cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade. She passes her glass of champagne to Coulson and takes the file from him, then takes her champagne glass back from Coulson and passes the file over to Stark.
pepper		Thank you.
tony		Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.
pepper		Is this about The Avengers? Which I...I know nothing about.
tony		The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.
pepper		I didn't know that either.
tony		Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self- obsessed, don't play well with others.
pepper		That I did know.
tony		Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.
tony		You know, I thought we were having a moment.
pepper		I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.
tony		How did you notice? Why is he Phil?
pepper		What is all of this?
tony		This is, uh... Tony EXPANDS his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.
tony		This. Screens appear of CAPTAIN AMERICA IN ACTION, the HULK ROARING AS
pepper		I'm going to take the jet to D.C. tonight.
tony		Tomorrow.
pepper		You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.
tony		Well, what if I didn't?
pepper		If you didn't?
tony		Yeah.
pepper		You mean if you finished?  Well, um...then... She whispers something in his ear. Tony GASPS. Coulson looks away in embarrassment.
tony		Square deal. It's the last date. Pepper kisses him.
pepper		Work hard. As Pepper leaves with Agent Coulson, Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, worried.
pilot		We're about forty minutes out from base, sir. Agent Coulson stands up from his seat and walks over to Steve.
steve		So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?
steve		Didn't really go his way, did it?
steve		Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.
steve		The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?
the other		The Chitauri grow restless.
loki		Let them go at themselves. I will lead them into glorious battle.
the other		Battle? Against the meager might of Earth?
loki		Glorious, not lengthy. If your force is as formidable as you claim.
the other		You question us? You question HIM? He, who put the scepter in your hand, who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out, defeated?
loki		I was a king! The rightful king of Asgard! Betrayed!
the other		Your ambition is little, born of childish need. We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil.
loki		You don't have the Tesseract yet. THE OTHER runs over to attack him, but stops as Loki points his scepter.
loki		I don't threaten, but until I open the doors, until your force is mine to command, you are but words.
the other		You will have your war, Asgardian. If you fail, if the Tesseract is kept from us, there will be no realm, no barren moon, no crevice where he can't find you. You think you know pain? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain. THE OTHER places his hand on Loki's head and transports him back to Earth. Loki looks around, menacing.
steve		Ma'am?
natasha		Hi.
natasha		There was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?
steve		Trading cards?
natasha		They're vintage, he's very proud. Without realizing, Banner doesn't notice them walking as he isnervous as hell. He moves around as people keep walking in hisway.
steve		Dr. Banner. Steve walks up to Banner and shakes his hands.
banner		Oh, yeah. Hi. They told me you'd be coming.
steve		Word is you can find the cube.
banner		Is that the only word on me?
steve		Only word I care about.
banner		 Must be strange for you, all of this.
steve		Well, this is actually kind of familiar.
natasha		Gentlemen, you may wanna step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath. Suddenly the HELICARRIER starts SHAKING as it prepares to fly "sail."
steve		Is this is a submarine?
banner		Really? They wanted me in a submerged pressurized metal container? They both move closer to the edge of the HELICARRIER. FOUR HUGE
nick fury		Good. Let's vanish.
nick fury		Gentlemen. Steve gives Fury 10 bucks, referring to his earlier statement about never being surprised again. Fury walks over Banner and extends his hand. Banner, reluctantly shakes it.
nick fury		Doctor, thank you for coming.
banner		Thanks for asking nicely. So, uh... how long am I staying?
nick fury		Once we get our hands on the Tesseract, you're in the clear.
banner		Where are you with that? Nick Fury turns to Agent Coulson to explain, while Natasha Romanoff eyes an image of Clint Barton on a computer screen.
natasha		That's still not gonna find them in time.
banner		You have to narrow the field. How many spectrometers do you have access to?
nick fury		How many are there?
banner		Call every lab you know, tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays. I'll rough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition. At least we could rule out a few places. Do you have somewhere for me to work?
nick fury		Agent Romanoff, would you show Dr.Banner to his laboratory, please. Natasha nods and walks off, leading Banner down the hall.
natasha		You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.
selvig		Put it over there!
clint barton		SHIELD has not shortage of enemies, Doctor. He holds up a screen showing information on IRIDIUM.
clint barton		Is this the stuff you need?
selvig		Yeah, iridium. It's found in meteorites, it forms anti-protons. It's very hard to get hold of.
clint barton		Especially if SHIELD knows you need it.
selvig		Well, I didn't know!  Hey! The Tesseract is showing me so much. It's more than just knowledge, it's... truth.
loki		I know. What did it show you, Agent Barton?
clint barton		My next target.
loki		Tell me what you need.
clint barton		I'll need a distraction.  And an eyeball.
steve		No, no. It's fine.
nick fury		Captain, you're up. Steve nods. Leaves.
loki		Kneel before me. The crowd ignores him. Another LOKI appears, blocking the crowd. Loki after Loki appears, they all grin as they raise their spears, encircling the crowd.
loki		I said. KNEEL!!! Everyone becomes quiet and kneels in front him. Loki embracing his arms out, smiling.
loki		Is not this simpler? Is this not your natural state? It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. You were made to be ruled. In the end, you will always kneel. As the words resonate to the kneeling crowd, an ELDER GERMAN MAN refuses to kneel and stands, heroic.
loki		There are no men like me.
loki		Look to your elder, people. Let him be an example. Loki is about to execute him with his scepter as the light GLOWS blue. Just as the ENERGY BEAM shoots out, FUCKING CAPTAIN AMERICA arrives! He dives in just in time and BLOCKS the blast with his SHIELD, knocking down Loki on his ass.
captain america		You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.
captain america		I'm not the one who's out of time. From above Cap, the QUINJET arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki.
natasha		Loki, drop the weapon and stand down. Like greased lighting, Loki sends a BLAST of blue at the QUINJET. Natasha MANEUVERS it just in time, giving Cap the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both begin to DUKE IT OUT. Loki FLINGS Cap to the ground. Cap then throws his shield, but Loki SWATS it way. Cap, using all the moves of a boxer, is KNOCKED down by Loki. Standing over him, he points the scepter's tip on his helmet.
loki		Kneel.
captain america		Not today! Cap FLIPS and KNOCKS him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and FLIPS him over.
natasha		The guy's all over the place. Suddenly, AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives the QUINJET'S speakers.
iron man		Agent Romanoff, did you miss me? Both Cap and Loki look up at the sky. Tony flies over in his IRON MAN suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. IRON MAN touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.
iron man		Make your move, Reindeer Games. Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armor materializes away.
iron man		Good move.
captain america		Mr. Stark.
iron man		Captain.
natasha		Not a word.
steve		I don't like it.
tony		What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?
steve		I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.
tony		Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?
steve		What?
tony		It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, doing time as a Capsicle. Steve looks at Tony, finally meeting his ego match.
steve		Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.
tony		Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you. THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently.
natasha		Where's this coming from? Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.
steve		What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?
loki		I'm not overly fond of what follows. What the fuck? OUTSIDE THE JET A BLINDING LIGHT hits the jet. Not a light. A King. THE MIGHTY THOR. Thor OPENS the ramp and grabs Loki by the throat and flies out. Steve and Tony are left dumbstruck. Tony puts the IRON MAN helmet on.
iron man		Now there's that guy.
natasha		Another Asgardian?
captain america		Think the guy's a friendly?
iron man		Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.
captain america		Stark, we need a plan of attack!
iron man		I have a plan. Attack. IRON MAN jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Cap grabs a parachute to follow.
natasha		I'd sit this one out, Cap.
captain america		I don't see how I can.
natasha		These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.
captain america		There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that. Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet.
thor		Where is the Tesseract?
thor		Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!
loki		Oh, you should thank me. With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here? Your precious Earth. Thor drops MJLNIR, causing the mountain to quake. He picks up Loki. His brother. Although Thor is pissed for what he has done, a family is everything to a man or god.
thor		I thought you dead.
loki		Did you mourn?
thor		We all did. Our father...
loki		Your father. He did tell you my true parentage, did he not? Thor lets go Loki, who walks away from Thor, causing an even bigger wedge between them.
thor		We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?
thor		So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.
thor		You think yourself above them.
loki		Well, yes.
thor		Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill. Angrily, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.
loki		I've seen worlds you've never known about! I have grown, Odinson, in my exile! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract, and when I wield it...
thor		Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?
loki		I am a king!
thor		Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.
loki		I don't have it. You need the cube to bring me home, but I've sent it off I know not where. Mjlnir flies back to his grasp.
thor		You listen well, brother. I...
loki		I'm listening.
thor		Do not touch me again!
tony		Then don't take my stuff.
thor		You have no idea what you're dealing with.
tony		Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?
thor		This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!
tony		He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist. The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjlnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.
tony		Okay. From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjlnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy. IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree. Right back at you, bitch! Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjlnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.
jarvis		Power at 400% capacity.
tony		How about that? IRON MAN FIRES AWAY FROM HIS HAND BOOSTERS, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and IRON MAN fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.
captain america		Hey! That's enough!  Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.
thor		I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!
captain america		Then prove it! Put the hammer down.
iron man		Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!
captain america		Are we done here?
nick fury		In case it's unclear. You try to escape. You so much as scratch that glass. Fury presses a button which OPENS UP a HATCH underneath Loki's cell. Loki peers as much as he can from the glass. Without seeing, the sounds of GUSTING WIND would make man shit his pants. Not a god, though.
nick fury		Thirty thousand feet, straight down in a steel trap. You get how that works?! Fury closes the hatch. Points at Loki.
nick fury		Ant. Then points at the button which would drop Loki into the steel trap.
nick fury		Boot.
nick fury		Built for something a lot stronger than you.
loki		Oh, I've heard. Loki looks into the camera.
loki		The mindless beast, makes play he's still a man. How desperate are you, that you call upon such lost creatures to defend you?
nick fury		How desperate am I? You threaten my world with war. You steal a force you can't hope to control.
loki		Ooh. It burns you to come so close. To have the Tesseract, to have power, unlimited power. And for what? A warm light for all mankind to share, and then to be reminded what real power is.
banner		He really grows on you, doesn't he?
steve		Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?
banner		So he's building another portal. That's what he needs Erik Selvig for.
thor		Selvig?
banner		He's an astrophysicist.
thor		He's a friend.
natasha		Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.
steve		I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.
banner		I don't think we should be focusing on Loki. That guy's brain is a bag full of cats, you could smell crazy on him.
thor		Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.
natasha		He killed eighty people in two days.
thor		He's adopted.
banner		Iridium, what did they need the Iridium for?
tony		It's a stabilizing agent. (walks in with Coulson; to
tony		Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.
tony		Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?
steve		Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?
banner		He's got to heat the cube to a hundredand twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier.
tony		Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.
banner		Well, if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reactor on the planet.
tony		Finally, someone who speaks English.
steve		Is that what just happened? Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.
tony		It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. You're work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.
steve		Let's start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.
nick fury		I don't know about that, but it is powered by the cube. And I'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys.
thor		Monkeys? I do not understand.
steve		I do! I understood that reference. Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.
tony		Shall we play, doctor?
banner		Let's play some. As Banner and Tony walk out, the GALAGA PLAYER turns ever so discreetly, watches as everyone else disperses and goes back to playing.
banner		The gamma readings are definitely consistent with Selvig's reports on the Tesseract. But it's gonna take weeks to process.
tony		If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.
banner		All I packed was a tooth brush.
banner		Thanks, but the last time I was in New York I kind of broke...Harlem.
tony		Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises. Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.
tony		Nothing?
tony		You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?
steve		Is everything a joke to you?
tony		Funny things are.
steve		Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, doctor.
banner		No, it's alright. I wouldn't have come aboard if I couldn't handle pointy things.
tony		You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.
steve		And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.
tony		You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.
steve		You think Fury's hiding something?
tony		He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets.  It's bugging him too, isn't it?
banner		 Uh...I just wanna finish my work here and...
steve		Doctor? A beat.
banner		'A warm light for all mankind, Loki's jab at Fury about the cube.
steve		I heard it.
banner		 Well, I think that was meant for you. Even if Barton didn't post that all over the news.
steve		The Stark Tower? That big ugly  ...building in New York?
banner		It's powered by Stark Reactors, self- sustaining energy source. That building will run itself for what, a year?
tony		That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.
banner		 So, why didn't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project? I mean, what are they doing in the energy business in the first place?
tony		I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.
steve		 I'm sorry, did you say...?
tony		Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide.  Blueberry?
steve		Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?
tony		An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.
steve		I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.
tony		Following is not really my style.
tony		 Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?
banner		Steve, tell me none of this smells a little funky to you? Steve takes in the possibility, but as an obedient soldier, shakes it off.
steve		Just find the cube. Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.
tony		That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.
banner		The guy's not wrong about Loki. He does have the jump on us.
tony		What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit.
banner		And I'll read all about it.
tony		Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.
banner		Ah, see. I don't get a suit of armor. I'm exposed, like a nerve. It's a nightmare.
tony		You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart.  This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.
banner		But you can control it.
tony		Because I learned how.
banner		It's different. Banner tries to read the computer screen, but Tony slides the data aside with his finger so the two can see face-to-face.
tony		Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.
banner		So you're saying that the Hulk... the other guy... saved my life?
banner		You might not like that.
tony		You just might.
thor		Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig. I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.
thor		They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we...we come here battling like BILCHSTEIM.
thor		BILCHSTEIM? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?
thor		They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path. Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window, lamenting about what has happened and what may come.
thor		When I first came to earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.
thor		I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.
nick fury		A lot of guys think that, until the pain stops.
thor		What are you asking me to do?
nick fury		I'm asking. What are you prepared to do?
thor		Loki is a prisoner.
nick fury		Then why do I feel like he's the only person on this boat that wants to be here? Thor doesn't answer.
loki		There's not many people that can sneak up on me. (turns to see NATASHA
natasha		But you figured I'd come.
loki		After. After whatever tortures Fury can concoct, you would appear as a friend, as a balm. And I would cooperate.
natasha		I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.
loki		I'd say I've expanded his mind.
natasha		And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?
loki		Is this love, Agent Romanoff?
natasha		Love is for children. I owe him a debt.
natasha		(she pulls up a chair as
loki		And what will you do if I vow to spare him?
natasha		Not let you out.
natasha		Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.
loki		What is it you want?
natasha		It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.
loki		Can you? Can you wipe out that much red? DRAKOV'S daughter? SO PAULO? THE HOSPITAL FIRE? Barton told me everything. Your ledger is dripping, it's gushing red, and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything?
intercuts		- Tony and Banner continuously work at their monitors.
loki		I won't touch Barton. Not until I make him kill you! Slowly. Intimately. In every way he knows you fear! And when he'll wake just long enough to see his good work, and when he screams, I'll split his skull! This is my bargain, you mewling quim! NATASHA turns around, walks away from Loki, disgusted.
natasha		 So, Banner... that's your play.
tony		Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.
nick fury		You're supposed to be locating the Tesseract.
banner		We are. The model's locked and we're sweeping for the signature now. When we get a hit, we'll have the location within half a mile.
tony		And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss.  What is PHASE 2? Suddenly, Steve drops a HYDRA ASSAULT RIFLE on the table causing Fury, Banner and Tony to turn around. Cap looks pissed.
steve		PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons.
nick fury		 Rogers, we gathered everything related to the Tesseract. This does not mean that we're...
tony		I'm sorry, Nick. Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of
tony		What were you lying?
steve		I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit. At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, PISSED.
banner		Did you know about this?
natasha		You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?
banner		I was in Calcutta, I was pretty well removed.
natasha		Loki's manipulating you.
banner		And you've been doing what exactly?
natasha		You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.
banner		Yes, and I'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy. I'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction.
nick fury		Because of him. 
nick fury		Last year earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town. We learned that not only are we not alone, but we are hopelessly, hilariously, outgunned.
thor		My people want nothing but peace with your planet.
nick fury		But you're not the only people out there, are you? And, you're not the only threat. The world's filling up with people who can't be matched, they can't be controlled.
steve		Like you controlled the cube?
thor		You're work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.
steve		A higher form?
nick fury		You forced our hand. We had to come up with something.
tony		Nuclear deterrent. `Cause that always calms everything right down.
nick fury		Remind me again how you made your fortune, Stark?
steve tony		I'm sure if he still made Wait! Wait! Hold on! How is weapons, Stark would be neck this now about me? deep... I'm sorry, isn't THOR everything? I thought humans were more evolved than this.
nick fury		Excuse me, did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up?
thor		Did you always give your champions such mistrust?
natasha banner		Are you all really that Captain America is on naive? S.H.I.E.L.D monitors potential threat potential threats? watch list?
tony steve		 I swear to God, Stark, one You're on that list? Are you more crack... above or below angry bees? Threatening! I feel threatened! As the "team" argues, they don't realize the BLUE GEM on Loki's scepter is glowing brightly.
barton		Arms to ammunition, over. Inside, BARTON and his crew suit up and arm themselves. Barton pulls out his hi-tech bow and arrows.
thor		You speak of control, yet you court chaos.
banner		It's his M.O., isn't it? I mean, what are we, a team? No, no, no. We're a chemical mixture that makes chaos. We're... we're a time-bomb.
nick fury		You need to step away.
tony		 Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam?
steve		 You know damn well why! Back off!
tony		 Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.
steve		Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?
tony		Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.
steve		I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage.
tony		I think I would just cut the wire.
tony		 A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!
steve		Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds. Thor laughs at them.
thor		You people are so petty... and tiny. Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.
banner		Yeah, this is a tee...
nick fury		Agent Romanoff, would you escort Dr.Banner back to his...
banner		Where? You rented my room.
nick fury		The cell was just in case...
banner		In case you needed to kill me, but you can't! I know! I tried!
banner		You wanna know my secret, Agent Romanoff? You wanna know how I stay calm? BLACK WIDOW and Fury have their hands down to grab their guns.
steve		Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.
tony		Got it. Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.
banner		Sorry, kids. You don't get to see my little party trick after all.
thor		Located the Tesseract?
tony		I can get there faster.
steve		Look, all of us...
thor		The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it. Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.
steve		You're not going alone!
tony		You gonna stop me?
steve		Put on the suit, let's find out.
tony		I'm not afraid to hit an old man.
steve		Put on the suit. At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract.
banner		Oh, my God!
steve		Put on the suit!
tony		Yep! Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts on his EARPIECE.
nick fury		Hill?!
galaga player		 Turbine's loose. Mostly intact, but it's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we're in the air.
nick fury		Stark! You copy that?!
nick fury		Coulson! Initiate official lock down in the detention section then get to the armory! Move out!
barton		Get that engine down! Detention! Get him through the dark! Come with me. Two of his men follow him. They head towards the bridge.
tony		Find engine three. I'll meet you there. Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.
natasha		Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me. Two approaching SHIELD soldiers arrive to check on her. She furiously WAVES them away. They bolt out of there.
natasha		We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never...
banner		Your life? His voice has the change in it -- the bitter amusement is morphing to a growled threat. Another explosion rocks the carrier -- and he turns to look at her, transforming just as the lights go out.
nick fury		Bring the carrier inwards and head south. Take us to the water.
helmsman		Why water? Navigations recalibrated after the engine failure.
nick fury		Is the sun coming up?!
helmsman		Yes, sir.
nick fury		Then put it on the left! Get us over water! One more turbine goes down and we drop.
captain america		Stark, I'm here!
tony		Good. See what we got. Tony flies in his IRON MAN suit and gets close to the damaged engine.
tony		I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.
iron man		I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position. IRON MAN flies into giant cooling conductors. CAPTAIN AMERICA JUMPS over to the other side of the broken railing. CAPTAIN AMERICA gets himself to the control panel and opens it up. For a man who grew up as a YANK, what the fuck is this!
iron man		What's it look like in there?
captain america		It seems to run on some form of electricity.
iron man		Well, you're not wrong.
thor		We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think! HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM
tony		Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.
captain america		Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!
tony		Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag...
captain america		Speak English!
tony		See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.
nick fury		We need a full evac on the lower hangar bay. Agent Hill nods. She leaves to exit out, but a SLIDING GRENADE appears.
nick fury		Get his attention.
nick fury		They are not getting through here, so what the hell... Suddenly, Barton LOOSES an arrow down to the bridge and EXPLODES critical spots. Barton releases a multi-tipped arrow towards Fury, but instead hits his command desk, right above a USB
nick fury		It's Barton. He took out our systems. He's headed for the detention level. Does anybody copy?
natasha		This is Agent Romanoff. I copy. Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton.
iron man		Yeah. Noticed. The rotors start propelling faster and faster as IRON MAN'S BOOSTERS get more and more bright. On the other side, CAPTAIN AMERICA continuously shoots at Barton's men. Blinking at the wrong moment, CAPTAIN AMERICA loses the upper hand and SLIDES off the railing, but grabs onto a LOOSE CABLE.
loki		Are you ever not going to fall for that?
loki		(smiles; walks over to the
thor		Nooo! Loki sends Agent Coulson against the wall. Agent Coulson slumps down, breathing fast. Loki makes his way to the control switch. He gives his brother one last look. Thor looks at him, hopeful. Loki opens the HATCH. Thor still hopes. LOKI HITS THE BUTTON AND
barton		Natasha... Natasha COLDCOCKS him. Barton is out.
loki		Your heroes are scattered, your floating fortress falls from the sky...where is my disadvantage?
loki		I don't think I...
tony		Cap, I need the lever!
tony		Lever. Now! Tony lets go of the rotors. They spin by themselves. Tony is then caught in one. He is now fucked. IRON MAN slips into the rotors, getting chewed up.
nick fury		Just stay awake. EYES ON ME!
nick fury		Not an option.
nick fury		These were in Phil Coulson's jacket. Guess he never did get you to sign them. Fury throws Coulson's CAPTAIN AMERICA TRADING CARDS on the table towards Steve. Steve picks them up, STAINED WITH BLOOD.
nick fury		We're dead in the air up here. Our communications, location of the cube, Banner, Thor. I got nothing for you. Lost my one good eye. Maybe I had that coming.
nick fury		Well, it's an old fashioned notion.
security guard		You fell out of the sky.
security guard		There's nobody around here to get hurt. You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though.
banner		Lucky.
security guard		Or just good aim. You were awake when you fell.
banner		You saw?
security guard		The whole thing, right through the ceiling. Big and green and buck ass nude. Here... He throws Banner a pair of big pants. Banner pulls on his pants.
security guard		I didn't think those would fit you until you shrunk down to a regular size fella.
banner		Thank you. A beat.
security guard		Are you an alien?
banner		What?
security guard		From outer space, an alien?
banner		No.
security guard		Well then, son, you've got a condition.
natasha		Clint, you're gonna be alright.
clint barton		You know that? Is that what you know? I got...I gotta go in though. I gotta flush him out.
natasha		We don't have that long, it's gonna take time.
clint barton		I don't understand. Have you ever had someone take your brain and play? Pull you out and send something else in? Do you know what it's like to be unmade?
natasha		You know that I do.
clint barton		Why am I back? How did you get him out?
natasha		Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head.
clint barton		Thanks. (Natasha unfastens the
natasha		Don't. Don't do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.
clint barton		Loki, he got away?
natasha		Yeah. I don't suppose you know where?
clint barton		I didn't need to know. I didn't ask. He's gonna make his play soon though. Today.
natasha		We gotta stop him.
clint barton		Yeah? Who's we?
natasha		I don't know. Whoever's left.
clint barton		Well, if I put an arrow in Loki's eyesocket, I'd sleep better I suppose.
natasha		Now you sound like you. Natasha sits next to her partner and friend.
clint barton		But you don't. You're a spy, not a soldier. Now you want to wade into a war. Why? What did Loki do to you?
natasha		He didn't, I just...
clint barton		Natasha.
natasha		I've been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I'd like to wipe it out.
steve		Was he married?
tony		No. There was a uh...cellist, I think.
steve		I'm sorry. He seemed like a good man.
tony		He was an idiot.
steve		Why? For believing?
tony		For taking on Loki alone.
steve		He was doing his job.
tony		He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have...
steve		Sometimes there isn't a way out, Tony.
steve		Is this the first time you've lost a soldier?
tony		 WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS! I am not marching to Fury's fife!
steve		Neither am I! He's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does. Right now we've got to put that aside and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list...
tony		(looking at the blood stained
steve		That's not the point.
tony		That is the point. That's Loki's point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?
steve		To tear us apart.
tony		He had to conquer his greed, but he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That's what he wants. He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.
steve		Right, I caught his act at Stuttengard.
tony		Yeah. That's just a preview, this is opening night. Loki's a full-tilt diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered...
steve		Time to go.
natasha		Go where?
steve		I'll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets? Barton walks out of the restroom. Looks at Cap.
clint barton		I can. Steve looks at Natasha and she nods her head to confirm Barton's on their side.
steve		You got a suit?
clint barton		Yeah.
steve		Then suit up.
montage		- KRAKAKABOOM! A blinding BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes down from above, colliding on MJLNIR. The explosion is massive. THE
captain america		Son... just don't.
nick fury		Agent Hill?
nick fury		They needed the push.  A LOUD NOISE SCREECHES. Fury looks out to see IRON MAN flying off as well as the QUINJET.
nick fury		They found it. Get our communications back up, whatever you have to do. I want eyes on everything.
jarvis		Sir, I took off the arc reactor. The device is already self-sustained.
tony		Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.
selvig		It's too late! It can't stop now. He wants to show us something! A new universe.
iron man		Okay. IRON MAN aims his hands toward the CMS and FIRES. The energy from his boosters SHATTERS with a deafening CRACK! Selvig falls backwards. DOWN BELOW, CITIZENS OF NEW YORK look up at STARK TOWER. IRON MAN stares in disbelief at the CMS ... unharmed.
jarvis		The barrier is pure energy. It's unbreachable. The Mark VII is not ready to be deployed.
tony		Skip the spinning rims. We're on the clock. TONY lands his SUIT and goes through the gauntlet and unsuits him. LOKI looks up at him, smiling. They proceed to walk into the penthouse.
loki		Please tell me you're going to appeal to my humanity.
tony		Uh...actually, I'm planning to threaten you.
loki		You should have left your armor on for that.
tony		Yeah, it's seen a bit of mileage. You've got the blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?
loki		Stalling me won't change anything.
tony		No, no, no! Threatening. No drink? You sure? I'm having one.
loki		The CHITAURI are coming, nothing will change that. What have I to fear?
loki		Yes, I've met them.
loki		That was the plan.
tony		Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they'll come for you. From underneath the bar table, Tony pulls on COLANTOTTE BRACELETS, a honing device.
loki		I have an army.
tony		We have a HULK.
loki		I thought the beast had wandered off.
tony		You're missing the point. There's no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it's too much for us, but it's all on you. Because if we can't protect the Earth, you can be damned well sure we'll avenge it.
loki		 How will your friends have time for me,when they're so busy fighting you? Loki TAPS Tony on the chest with his scepter. PING! Nothing. Confused, Loki tires again. PING! NOTHING.
loki		It should work.
tony		Well, performance issues. You know? In anger, Loki GRABS Tony by the throat and FLINGS him across the room.
tony		Jarvis. Anytime now. Loki grabs Tony by the throat again.
loki		You will all fall before me. LOKI THROWS TONY OUT THE WINDOW. Tony FREEFALLS down the tower. From behind Loki, an elevator opens and a RED POD SHOOTS out. The pod LASER SIGNALS the COLANTOTTE BRACELETS on Tony. The POD begins to TRANSFORM into the MARK VII suit. It LATCHES onto Tony. IRON MAN. The suit FLIES up before he hits the ground or the gazing people. Loki looks up, angry.
iron man		And there's one other person you pissed off! His name was Phil. Loki raises the scepter. IRON MAN FIRES at Loki, sending him on his ass.
tony		Right. Army. IRON MAN flies up towards the portal. From his shoulders, a miniature multiple rocket launcher, pops out and FIRES. Like the JERICHO MISSILE, several targets are taken down unlike no missile. It's useless. THOUSANDS OF CHITAURI FLY OUT. IRON MAN flies towards the city.
thor		Loki! Turn off the Tesseract or I'll destroy it!
loki		You can't. There is no stopping it. There is only the war!
thor		So be it. Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing another pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.
iron man		What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing up PARK, I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.
jarvis		Sir, we have more incoming.
tony		Fine. Let's keep them occupied. IRON MAN heads back to the portal.
hawkeye		Yeah.
black widow		See them. HAWKEYE BANKS the jet towards STARK TOWER. Aims the MINIGUN at Loki. Loki AIMS the scepter at the QUINJET and FIRES A BLAST OF ENERGY. Thor gets to his feet, TACKLING Loki down hard. THE QUINJET is soon caught on fire. HAWKEYE maneuvers one wing of the jet. They SPIN and SLOW. DROPPING OUT OF THE AIR AS IT PASSES OVER SKYSCRAPERS. Then... they SLAM into the street.
captain america		Stark, are you seeing this?
tony		I'm seeing, still working on believing. Where's Banner? Has he shown up yet?
tony		Just keep me posted. Jarvis, find me a soft spot. IRON MAN quietly flies behind and parallel with the CHITAURI
thor		Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?
loki		 It's too late. It's too late to stopit.
thor		No. We can. Together. Loki looks at his brother, showing a sign of hope. Then... Loki stabs Thor with a small knife. Thor keels over.
loki		Sentiment. Thor gets up, KICKS Loki and lifts him into the air. Thor then SLAMS him down, hard. Loki, bleeding, rolls over the edge. Thor looks down. LOKI IS RIDING ON A FLYING CHARIOT. DOZENS of CHITAURI follow his lead.
captain america		Those people need assistance down there. CHITAURI SOLDIERS that have landed near them and begin FIRING at them. BLACK WIDOW pulls both pistols and FIRES. Turns to Cap.
black widow		We got this. It's good. Go!
hawkeye		Captain. (pulls a trigger on his bow; a narrow is mechanically
black widow		Just like BUDAPEST all over again!
hawkeye		You and I remember Budapest verydifferently.
young cop		We need to get out! They gotta bring the National Guard!
police sergeant		National Guard? Does the army know what's happening here?
young cop		Do we? CAPTAIN AMERICA jumps in front of them. They look up at this ridiculous looking man.
captain america		I need men in these buildings. There are people inside that can run into the line of fire. You take them through the basement or through the subway. You keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
police sergeant		Why the hell should I take orders from you? Suddenly, an EXPLOSION comes up from behind Cap. An ENERGY BLAST is blocked by his SHIELD. TWO CHITAURI SOLDIERS attack. The cops watch in shock as CAPTAIN AMERICA FIGHTS them off with ease. The Sergeant turns to his officer.
police sergeant		I need men in those buildings, lead the people down and away from the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
captain america		What's the story upstairs?
thor		The powers surrounding the cube is impenetrable.
black widow		How do we do this?
captain america		As a team.
thor		I have unfinished business with Loki.
hawkeye		Yeah, get in line.
captain america		Save it. Loki's gonna keep this fight focused on us and that's what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he's gonna need us... Just then, BANNER ARRIVES ON A SMALL MOTORBIKE. Getting off, he looks around the city.
banner		So, this all seems horrible.
black widow		I've seen worse.
banner		Sorry.
black widow		No. We could use a little worse.
captain america		Stark? We got him.
captain america		Just like you said.
tony		Then tell him to suit up. I'm bringing the party to you. IRON MAN comes out from behind a building. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN follows, impatiently.
black widow		I... I don't see how that's a party... IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN also swoops down, BARRELING down the street like a FREIGHT TRAIN that keeps building and building its intensity.Banner looks behind. Cap looks at him. Banner begins to walk towards the monster.
captain america		Dr. Banner. Now might be a really good time for you to get angry.
banner		That's my secret, Captain. I'm always angry. Banner's body starts to swell and stretch and harden. GREEN
loki		Send the rest.
black widow		Guys.
iron man		Call it, Cap.
captain america		Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we're gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or your turn it to ash.
hawkeye		Wanna give me a lift?
iron man		Right. Better clench up, LEGOLAS. IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building.
captain america		Thor, you've gotta try and bottleneck that portal. Slow them down. You've got the lightning. Light the bastards up.  You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk.SMASH.
hawkeye		Stark. You got a lot of strings sticking to your tail.
iron man		Just try and keep them off the streets.
hawkeye		Well, they can't bank worth a damn. Find a tight corner.
iron man		I will roger that. IRON MAN does so and leads towards TIGHT CORNERS and in HAWKEYE'S view, who fires arrow upon and arrow, EXPLODING the CHITAURI RIDERS. IRON MAN keeps leading CHITAURI RIDERS UNDER TUNNELS, THROUGH OPEN PARKING GARAGES. He looks back. None left.
tony		Nice call. What else you got?
tony		And he didn't invite me?
black widow		Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don't close that portal.
captain america		Our biggest guns couldn't touch it.
black widow		Well, maybe it's not about guns. (gestures the flying
captain america		You wanna get up there, you're gonna need a ride.
black widow		I got a ride. I could use a lift though. BLACK WIDOW backs up giving herself a running start. Cap lifts and angles his SHIELD.
captain america		Are you sure about this?
black widow		Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
hawkeye		Captain, the bank on 42ndpast MADISON, they caught a lot of civilians there.
captain america		I'm on it.
captain america		Everyone! Clear out! CAPTAIN AMERICA flips over the SOLDIER, grabs his SHIELD and just as the BOMB is about to GO OFF, CHITAURI BOMBER dives for, trying to stop it, but it GOES OFF, sending CAPTAIN AMERICA through the window, landing very hard on a car. The civilians look up from below. They're okay.
nick fury		I recognize the council has made a decision, but given that it's a stupid ass decision, I've elected to ignore it.
nick fury		That is the island of Manhattan, Councilman. Until I'm certain my team can't hold it, I will not order a nuclear strike against a civilian population.
nick fury		I send that bird out, we already have. Fury shuts off his viewscreen.
black widow		Oh. You. LOKI FOLLOWS IN HOT PURSUIT. They RACE DOWNWARD, trailing between buildings. They RACE MADLY, driving and dodging.
hawkeye		Nat, what are you doing?
hawkeye		I've got him.
black widow		Doctor.
selvig		Loki's scepter, the energy...the Tesseract can't fight. You can't protect against yourself.
black widow		It's not your fault. You didn't know what you were doing.
selvig		Well, actually I think I did. I built in a safety to cut the power source.
black widow		Loki's scepter.
selvig		It might be able to close the portal. (Selvig looks down. He sees a
jarvis		Sir, we will lose power before you cut through that shell. IRON MAN flies up ahead, facing the oncoming monster.
iron man		JARVIS. You ever hear the tale of Jonah?
jarvis		I wouldn't consider him a role model.
nick fury		Stark, you hearing me? We have a missile headed straight for the city.
nick fury		Three minutes, at best. Stay low and wipe out the missile.
iron man		Jarvis, put everything we got into the thrusters!
jarvis		I just did. IRON MAN leaves the streets and flies up into the sky.
thor		You ready for another bout?
captain america		What? You gettin' sleepy?
black widow		I can close it! Can anybody hear me? I can shut the portal down!
captain america		Do it!
captain america		Stark, these things are still coming!
tony		I got a nuke coming in, it's gonna blow in less than a minute. And I know just where to put it.
jarvis		Sir. Shall I call Miss Potts?
iron man		You might as well.
black widow		Come on, Stark...
captain america		 Close it.
captain america		  Son of a gun! TIGHT ON IRON MAN: He keeps falling. And falling. And falling.  EXT. MANHATTAN  DAY
thor		He's not slowing down. Thor swings Mjlnir around. Just as Thor flies up, THE HULK
tony		What the hell? What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me?
tony		Alright. Hey. Alright. Good job, guys. Let's just not come in tomorrow. Let's just take a day. Have you ever tried shawarma? There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don't know what it is, but I wanna try it.
thor		 We're not finished yet. A beat.
tony		And then shawarma after.
loki		If it's all the same to you. I'll have that drink.
senator boynton		These so called heroes have to be held responsible for the destruction done to the city. This was their fight. Where are they now?
waitress		What? That this was somehow their fault? Captain America saved my life. Wherever he is, wherever any of them are, I just wanna say thank you.
nick fury		I'm not currently tracking their whereabouts. I'd say they've earned a leave of absence.
nick fury		The Tesseract is where it belongs: out of our reach.
nick fury		I didn't make it. I just didn't argue with the god that did.
nick fury		Oh, I think he will be.
nick fury		They surely are. And the whole world knows it. Every world knows it.
nick fury		A promise.
nick fury		They'll come back.
nick fury		I am.
nick fury		Because we'll need them to.
****Dialogues from script :Avventura.txt****

anna		So, there you are... I've been upstairs looking all over for you...
anna		No, not yet, Dad.
old man		And who do you think made that hole over there?
raimondo		 Lady Patrizia!
sandro		I don't know... It depends on Ettore... He's now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in Sicily...
giulia		 Where is she going?  SANDRO Ask her.
patrizia		... and how ugly they are ... with all those teeth...  CORRADO  There's a shark in the area. Don't move from where you are!  CORRADO Who's moving?
claudia		 This one is gorgeous.
patrizia		 Now, tell the truth, aren't you a bit disappointed?... But I already told you...  RAIMONDO If women's breasts were colored, yours would be blue...
raimondo		 And just think -- if there ever was a woman so right, so perfectly cut out for all kinds of dissipations, degradations, infidelities... of.. . of... of debaucheries, it's her. Well, anyway, she's faithful. Faithful out of laziness... of unwillingness.
giulia		 He never misses a chance to humiliate me, to let me know that he doesn't care about me any more.
sandro		 And why haven't they left each other?  CLAUDIA I'm beginning to have my doubts. It couldn't be that they're in love?  SANDRO Could be. They're the kind of people who are capable of anything.
giulia		 The trouble with you is that nobody can speak to you, that's all.
sandro		 Giulia, don't you understand that the more involved you become with people, the more difficult it is to speak with them?
sandro		 This is the kind of behavior that drives me crazy!  Down at the shore, Giulia is getting ready to step on the gangplank and go aboard the yacht but, anxious about Anna's whereabouts, she changes her mind and turns back. Claudia, also deeply concerned, decides to remain and look around for herself. She turns and starts climbing up towards the rock in an opposite direction than that taken by Sandro, who has now reached the top.
claudia		 What do you mean! What about Anna?
corrado		 There are some footprints around here...
raimondo		 Mario...Steer the boat that way.
patrizia		 How long will it take to go there and come back?
giulia		 But why?... What if it starts to rain?  CORRADO If it rains, I'll buy myself an umbrella.
giulia		 Do you want some blankets? ... and something to eat?
corrado		 What were you and Anna arguing about?... Excuse me for being so indiscreet, but this is serious...
old man		 What boat?
marshal		 Anything new develop?
marshal		Very well. First of all, I'll have them search the waters around the island. I brought two frogmen with me... Meanwhile, we'll take a look up around here.
marshal		Don't worry, we've got everything.
marshal		 I know, I know. One thing at a time.
carabiniere		 Nothing here!
corrado		Don't look at me like that, Marshal...  I had nothing to do with it.  PATRIZIA  Let's hope they don't find her... If they do, they would find her dead.
claudia		 I think that you might go and have a look yourself.
patrizia		 What amazes me, is Sandro. He seems so calm.
claudia		 Calm?... He doesn't seem so to me... He was awake all night.
raimondo		 What is it?
frogman		An ancient vase. There's a buried city under here. It's full of this stuff.
patrizia		 Come on, Corrado, tell us what century it belongs to.
patrizia		 But aren't you supposed to be on your way?
carabiniere		It takes about twenty to twenty-two hours for the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca.
elderly gentleman		And sometimes even twenty-four... depending on the wind...
carabiniere		If the girl disappeared yesterday afternoon, we'll have to wait at least until three or four o'clock.
voices		It belongs to me... We found it...
gentleman		Back... Stand back!
carabiniere		 You see? It contains cigarettes. We'll have to confiscate it.
carabiniere		 These people are contemptible. They have no sense of dignity at all.
carabiniere		It couldn't have come from anywhere else. At least, somewhere from that vicinity... But I really can't understand it. Contraband cigarettes on that island! It's the first time that ever happened.
carabiniere		But how could we...at a time like this when we just... well, let's at least first have a look around the other islands. Could be that something might turn up there.
carabiniere		 As you wish.
marshal		 ... Is it also true that you saw no boat around here at Lisca between yesterday and this morning?
old man		How many times do I have to tell you, Marshal, that I was at Panarea.
marshal		I believe you, I believe you... But I'm also certain that you're hiding something from me. I can see it written all over your face... And you know that I have never liked your face. And if you want to know something, that gentleman over there...  ...who's a very important person... doesn't like it either. So, just keep that in mind. I'll talk to you later.
marshal		Without any doubt, sir. If anything belonging to the girl who has run away is still here on this island...
marshal		I'm sorry, sir. I didn't mean to put it that way. But, you must understand, sir, that I...
marshal		Here's her valise, sir.
marshal		Sir, if you have no objections, may we start the search?
attendant		 Get everybody out of the way...
marshal		Okay. I'll send them down to that part of the beach over there...
marshal		We'll try again.
carabiniere		 We didn't check the other islands, so...
carabiniere		 He wanted to come back.
marshal		Up until now those smugglers were operating only around the Palermo area. This will be a nice surprise for the Lieutenant in Milazzo... Call up headquarters. Bring them up to date and have them give you instructions on what to do with this crate.
marshal		 I wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff ... Maybe right here at Lisca.
marshal		But for what reason would she have wanted to go away?
marshal		I think it's possible.
marshal		What is it about?  SAILOR They've stopped a suspicious-looking boat a few miles from here... yesterday afternoon. The crew has been taken to Milazzo for questioning.
lieutenant		Okay. Just sign here.  Have the next one come in. He's the last, isn't he?
lieutenant		They tell me you have a lot of trouble at home. Is that right?
lieutenant		So that's why you've turned to smuggling, eh? You need the money. Now, I can help you. I can see that you get some assistance from the government. But first there's a little formality we've got to take care of. Just a few questions and then we can all go to lunch... Your friend tells me you dropped anchor three times...
lieutenant		 Now look here, your friend just swore to me that you weren't able to do any fishing at all because the sea was too rough... And what about the other boat?
lieutenant		Now look, my men saw it and they also saw you men throwing those crates overboard. What have you got to say about that?
lieutenant		Now look here, I'm ready to forget the whole thing: the cigarettes, the contraband -- everything. If you would only tell me... you or your friends... whether the girl was aboard your boat and how far she went.
lieutenant		 Just as I thought. Even if you caught them in the act, they'd deny it. They always deny everything. And then, in this case, if they were to admit having had the girl aboard, it would mean they'd be admitting to the charge of carrying contraband. Oh, it's easy to say: talk! But if they did talk, the following morning you'd find them cold dead in front of their doorstep.  ANNA'S FATHER I think it would be worth my while to take a run over to Palermo. The Chief of Police there is a very good friend of mine and I'm sure he'll do whatever he can. I feel we're wasting our time here... Excuse me, Lieutenant. I hope we see each other again under better circumstances. And thanks for everything.
lieutenant		At any rate, we'll continue investigating. I know that headquarters has sent out an alarm to all areas...
sandro		 Tell me, Lieutenant, do you happen to know this F.Z. who wrote this article here?
lieutenant		That's Francesco Zuria. He's the news correspondent.  SANDRO Where can we locate him? Don't you think that by offering a reward to anyone who can give us some information...
lieutenant		Zuria is in Messina. You might try him. Shall we phone him?
sergeant		Have you any instructions for me, Lieutenant? May I return to Lipari?
lieutenant		Yes. With whom did you leave the crate of cigarettes?
sergeant		I left it at the warehouse.
sergeant		About two hours ago.
sergeant		I don't know... She said she had to catch a train.
princess		Oh, how nice! So, you're from Rome... And would you happen to know of some intelligent clergyman in Rome who might be willing to come here and stay with us? We have our own private little chapel... It is a masterpiece, with seventeenth-century frescoes... and the remains of all our dead ancestors, a wonderful collection... He would find it very convenient there, and could say his own masses. Then he would have to spend a little time with my husband, who never sees anyone, to keep him occupied.
ettore		 And who is this?
ettore		 Sandro?... Oh, sure... I can see Sandro calling Anna over to him and saying: Listen, Anna, I intend to get rid of you, but since it's so painful and complicated... and besides, I don't happen to have a gun on me... why don't you do me a favor and get rid of yourself on your own...
giulia		 Goffredo is the Princess' nephew. He's eighteen years old, the lucky boy. And, what do you know -- he paints.  GOFFREDO Anybody can hold a brush in his hand. All you need is to buy some oils and start painting. Even Rembrandt did the same.
other voices		It's Queen Saroya... I saw her... So, who could it be?
sandro		 Which one of you is Zuria?
newspaperman		He's inside.
manager		I phoned you, Chief, because, in view of the situation... I thought it best...
girl		I came down here to buy a foulard... Suddenly I realized that little by little, directly behind me, I was being followed by so many men, and more and more of them kept coming.
girl		But I have always gone around like this, everywhere in the world. Nothing like this has ever happened to me before.
zuria		 How old are you?
girl		Nineteen. My name is Gloria Perkins. I'm married and a writer by profession. I write in a trance, almost always in contact with people who are dead. Tolstoi, for example, or Shakespeare. But the movies also interest me.
girl		No, why should I be shocked? We're in Italy, not Finland.
girl		In Palermo I was with my husband. Now I'm going to Capri to write an article for the Tourist Office.
girl		Oh, yes, thank you...
claudia		 It's divine!  PATRIZIA You say that just to flatter me.  CLAUDIA Do you consider that a compliment?  PATRIZIA No.
claudia		 Giulia!
sandro		 But it even says what she bought: a bar of soap! So there's no point in making believe you can't remember.
lady amalia		Disappeared? Who is she? ... Where? When?  HUSBAND And that makes four. Anybody else?...
wife		 Yes!
husband		 Brunette.
wife		 Blonde.
wife		 He doesn't look at dresses, he looks at what's under them.
husband		 Then why don't you go back?
driver		Did your car break down?  SANDRO No. I only want some information.
driver		She was a little nervous... dark-haired ... with a kerchief around her head?
assistant		Two days ago... wasn't there that midwife on the bus, too? Sure, that's right, and she was talking to some young woman ...
assistant		All I can tell you is that the midwife is from X...
claudia		 It's late... We should be going.
man		Excuse me, but would you mind pulling that cord for me?
man		Thank you.
coachman		 Nobody there.
coachman		Tourists? Last year a few Frenchmen came here and they all walked around in their bathing suits. So they were made to understand that it was better if they didn't come at all.
custodian		Yes, come right in.
hotel manager		Go ahead, keep right on singing...
hotel manager		 Excuse me for interfering, but I've heard about that girl... Here in this place one gets to know about everything... That girl you're looking for... Why don't you try asking at the youth hostel in Pergusa? Almost all the young girls traveling through here end up there.
****Dialogues from script :Awakenings.txt****

4.		4.   INT. CLASSROOM - DAY - 1930 An adult hand chalking the words of a poem on a blackboard. Children at desks dutifully transcribing the lesson. All but one. Leonard. Whose hands are trembling slightly and whose paper is blank. There is a noticeable lack of rhythms. A cold silence. The broken watch rests on his desk. The boy from the train, glancing at Leonard, begins gently tapping the end of his pen against his desk. Leonard, "guided" by the cadence of his friend's tapping, begins to write.
5.		5. INT. CLASSROOM.- LATER - DAY - 1930 The finished poem on the blackboard. The sounds of children at play on the schoolyard. The teacher, alone in the classroom,
kaufman		It can't. SAYER Well, I know that now.       I proved it. The director offers a slow tentative nod before consulting the resume again. DIRECTOR Maybe before. At Saint Thomas.  Are they? SAYER Oh, yes . . . three years. As the Director retreats back to the resume, hoping against hope of finding in it something germane, Sayer glances away to a window. He wishes he were outside it. He has no business being here. He should leave. SAYER Excuse me, I made a mistake coming here. Clearly you're looking for someone with more of a clinical background. He stands up to leave. Kaufman stands to see him out.      But the       * director keeps searching the resume.
director		Well, there we are, doctor. Kaufman can't believe it, but is sent back a look that says, We have no choice. The Director gets up out of his chair, and, smiling broadly, extends his hand to Sayer. Which unsettles Sayer. Which in turn unsettles the Director. DIRECTOR  You do want the job, don't you? Sayer isn't so sure.   He thinks about it long and hard . . .
v		11.   INT. DAYROOM  - DAY                                  11. A man in his sixties confronts Sayer with an announcement in a loud commanding voice - MALE PATIENT 1 X was born in I911f in Kinasbridae, New York. I came here in July of 1955. Prior to July of 1955. I resided a the Brooklyn Psychiatric Centerf Brooklyn. New York. Prior to thatP I was a person. And you. sir.- i Who the* hell >are.*v.ou?       .
16		16.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM/OFFICE - BAINBRIDGE - DAY Distant music of children's laughter. Perhaps real, emanating from outside; perhaps imagined, remembered, playing in a remote region of the woman's damaged mind. Arrested of all movement, she stares, transfixed, at the blades of a fan. SAYER'S VOICE Do you know where you are? . SAYER'S VOICE Can you hear me? Sayer, wearing a white lab coat, tries to read her eyes. Behind thick lenses, uncleaned for weeks or months, the eyes are inscrutable.                                         .
miss costello		And that I'll look after things for you until you've "settled in." Good night, doctor. She leaves. He stares blankly out after her, then at his dashboard. To it eventually, quietly -- SAYER Thank you . . . He glances to his rear view mirror and can see her walking away toward her car. To the reflection -- SAYER Thank you very much.
rev. 10/13/89   p. 17		He glances around. Sees an orderly reading a newspaper. (P\   Borrows a section, returns with it, slides it under the pen and waits. The man doesn't write. Doesn't move. Sayer takes the pen back, returns it to his coat pocket, hesitates, pulls it out again, holds it out . . . and lets it go. The man, lightning quick, catches it.
28		28.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY The files spread out on a table. Sayer and Miss Costello leafing through them.                    . . Sayer considers one's original admission forms. He scans bodies of text and finds a diagnosis -- ATYPICAL SCHIZOPHRENIA. He sets it aside and picks up another. MISS COSTELLO "Atypical Hysteria," this one. Sayer nods to himself and keeps reading his. He eventually finds in its text -- ATYPICAL RABIES. He flips to the end of the file. "No change since last examination" it reads. He turns the page. "No change, no therapy recommended." He turns the page, the last entry. "No change." The date, "11/9/44." SAYER There must be more recent files we missed somehow. "Part Twos" to their medical histories.  In some other filing cabinet somewhere.                 . .. MISS COSTELLO NO.
rev. 10/13/89   p.19		29.   EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - EVENING                               29.  Tea? SAYER Ah . . . normally I'd say yes . . . only I've made other plans . . . She nods quickly.    She seems, strangely, relieved. MISS COSTELLO Some other time. SAYER Yes. MISS COSTELLO , Good night. SAYER Good night. They veer apart to their respective cars.
41		41.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - LATER - DAY Sayer has assembled them all, the fourteen or fifteen he has decided are post-encephalitics, and wanders among them like a naturalist in a garden of stone. He lifts an arm of one particularly remote male patient.   It remains suspended, doll-like. He tries to follow the trajectory of another's gaze.   It leads only to blank space. He considers another who appears "deeply involved" in some minute and curious activity with his twisted hands, a kind of tearing, shredding motion. .                       v Across the room, paying no attention to Sayer, are Sidney and Lolly. He's gently brushing her hair. Sayer manages a pen into the hand of another woman and she "draws" a kind a kind of circular shape that spirals in on itself until it reaches a "vanishing point" in the center.
rev. 10/13/83   p.26		Sayer keeps coming back to one in particular. Unlike the others which, if you use your imagination, vaguely correspond somewhat positionally to the pre-printed shapes, this one bears no resemblance. This patient has instead scrawled over the shapes, seemingly violently. Miss Costello joins Sayer and ponders it along with him. Eventually, as if to excuse it and its maker-- MISS COSTELLO It's different. SAYER Quite.   It's quite bad. Sayer keeps studying it. SAYER  Could it be willfully bad? She doesn't say it but it's clear she thinks Sayer is reading far too much into the "badness" of the patient's scrawl. To himself - SAYER Which one is this? He leans closer to see the typed name . . .
rev. 10/13/89 p.28		MRS. LOWE  Well it's abstract, isn't it. Sayer can't bring himself to agree with her. MRS. LOWE That's the problem with all you doctors, you have no imagination. Everything has to be real to you. No longer having any use for him, she pointedly ignores him. * Taking the hint, Sayer's wanders off, past Lucy, looking like a statue, holding the paper cup he brought her.
mann		What are you saying? When he's awake, what, he's dreaming? SAYER When there's any brain activity at all, which is infrequent, yes. Dreaming or hallucinating. MANN And when he's asleep . . . ? SAYER When he's asleep he manages to create a kind of reality. What we might call reality. MANN That's what you think these say? SAYER 1 don't know. Mann studies the "waking" EEC     He points to its one and only large electrical peak.                     ;
mann		What's this peak? Strobe? SAYER No. This is the strobe. Sayer indicates a flat section of the pattern where there is scribbled in pencil a small "s." SAYER This . . . ,                               / . . . is me saying his name to him. Mann stares rather dumbly at Sayer. Then at Hank the monkey on the floor dealing solitaire.
rev. 10.13/89 p.33		A circle of patients in wheelchairs. The post-encephalitics reunited. "Waking" just long enough to catch and release the object, a small beach ball. Leonard and Sayer, on opposite sides of the circle, ignoring the ball and the other patients. He's reached a dead end, Sayer, right where he began, his only "accomplishment," this, ball-catching patients.
rev. 10/13/89   p.34		Sayer doesn't know whether to applaud or cry. He does neither, burying his emotions behind a professional mask instead, and watches as Lucy, "delivered" to the other side, free now, lets the regularity of the pattern guide her toward the fountain. She nears it. She is almost there. Then she is. there. But doesn't drink. Doesn't stop. She continues past it . . . To a window, the window bevond the drinking fountain which Sayer hadn't noticed before, had no reason to notice, had no need to notice, with a broken pane allowing a view to the outside. She stares out at the traffic below, in hopes no doubt of figuring out where she is. And Sayer's eyes, behind which exhilaration and horror rise up, shift from her to Miss Costello, and then to Leonard, in whose mask of a face Sayer thinks he sees a faint glimmer. These people are alive inside.
52		52.   INT. DAYROOM , a first edition worn /rom many readings. Margaret glances from it to the other nurses and back to Miss Costello.
54		54.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY Leonard's head locked on his shoulders at an improbable angle that forces his entranced gaze upward to a point well above Sayer. SAYER Can you hear me, Leonard? I want to hear you speak your name. : .               - Sayer waits . . . but Leonard remains mute.
margaret		They'll sit there all day like that if I let them. I have to play the first card. > Sayer watches her pull a card from one of their hands and place it on the table. All three "wake" and begin throwing down cards, one after another. SAYER Is it a real game I wonder? MARGARET If it is, I don't know it. Maybe it's three different games. SAYER  Yes. 62
rev. 10/13/89   p.40		But the pointer is moving again.      It stops on the "L." SAYER Yes. Yes. That's what I meant. . "L." Good. Now the "E." It begins moving again. But not to the "E." To the nK," where it hesitates briefly before moving again. SAYER  . . . you're spelling something el e . . . s Keeping one hand on the moving pointer, Sayer fumbles a pen from his shirt pocket and scribbles on his lab coat what Leonard has and is continuing to "write": RILKESPA
rev. 10/13/89 p."		(continuity onxy; SAYER'S VOICE "His gaze from staring through the bars has grown so weary that it can take in nothing more . . .
rev. 10/13/89 p.41a		 in the air.
rev. 10/13/89   p.47		SAYER I hope it'll bring him back from wherever he is.  What's here for him after all these years?       ' SAYER You are here. She ponders that and the enormity of the whole situation, all the while staring at the consent form.
79		79.   INT. PHARMACY, BAINBRIDGE - DAY The hospital pharmacy, a subterranean structure built into the basement, cluttered from floor to ceiling with medicines. Ray, the pharmacist, dips into a bag of powder. He spoons some out onto a scale and looks to Sayer to tell him the dosage. SAYER I have no idea. What do you say we ease into it with ... what,       . fifty milligrams? Ray begins to measure five milligrams. SAYER Let's say a hundred. Ray shrugs; it's okay with him. He knifes at the powder, removing all but 100 milligrams.
rsv. 10/13/89   p.48		SAYER Leonard? Your mother's going to give you some juice. There's medicine in it which is why it may taste more bitter than usual. Sayer glances to Mrs. Lowe. It's as if they've rehearsed it all. She holds the glass to her son's lips and gradually drains the liquid down his throat. Nothing immediately happens, of course, but they all, with the exception of Leonard, look as if they expect it to. Mrs. Lowe hands the empty glass back to Sayer. And they all wait.
9		90.   INT. DAYROOM - LATER - NIGHT A claw of a hand dragging a crayon across a sheet of paper. Tight on Sayer, framed in a doorway, as still and silent and entranced as a post-encephalitic. His perspective of the dayroom -- deserted except for a figure, a patient, Leonard, hunched over the table. As Sayer crosses toward him, Leonard's head slowly rises. Sayer sits opposite him and they consider each other in silence for several moments. Leonard struggles to speak, to form words. They come out in a halting cadence, flat, without inflection, and are only barely . recognizable as words:                   . LEONARD It's quiet. SAYER It's late.    Everyone's asleep> LEONARD I'm not asleep? SAYER No.   You're awake. Though he nods, it's unclear whether Leonard realizes how significant that is. Sayer gestures at the piece of paper beneath Leonard's hands. SAYER May I? Sayer draws the paper across the table. It's covered with what seems imponderable hieroglyphic-like scrawl. But there is order in the chaos. Letters. Leonard's name. LEONARD Me.
93.		9.3.   INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR - MORNING Miss Costello, flanked by Sayer and Mrs. Lowe, watches as Leonard extends his hand to the "card playing nurse." MARGARET How do you do, sir? My name is Margaret. LEONARD Margaret.
9		95.   INT. THE PHARMACY - MORNING Fernando is along for the ride and watches Leonard shaking Ray the pharmacist's hand. RAY How do you do, Mr. Lowe? LEONARD ! Good, sir.
95		95A. INT. CAFETERIA KITCHEN -MORNING The cooks and kitchen workers around Leonard and his entourage, shaking his hand. >.                . 96. INT. STAFF CAFETERIA - LATER - DAY                            9 A tray of truly awful cafeteria food. The group, minus Sayer and Miss Costello, watches Leonard dip a fork into some mush- like concoction and manipulate it, with difficulty, to and into his mouth. He seems amazed by its flavor. LEONARD It's delicious. FERNANDO I wouldn't go that far, Len. Sayer and Miss Costello, at another table, glance over to the others who are all laughing. Sayer smiles. MISS COSTELLO I don't think I could deal with losing 3D years of my life. I can't even imagine it.
rev. 10/13/89 p.53		Sayer's smile fades. The possibility that Leonard might not have realized the extent of the passage of time had not, until this moment, occurred to him. He stares blankly at Miss Costello. MISS COSTELLO He does realize it, doesn't he? Sayer nods uncertainly. SAYER He must.
97.		97.   INT. EXAMINATION ROOM - LATER - DAY  Sayer demonstrates a clapping motion. Leonard repeats it more slowly but with decent motor control.
re v. 10 /1 3/ 89   p .54		L EO N AR D I ' m af r ai d to cl os e m y ey e s . . . If (y\              I close my eyes . . . He hesitates, as if saying it may make the fear more real. SAYER . . . you'll sleep. And when you wake up in the morning, it will be the next morning. I promise. Sayer's smile tries to assure them both that it will happen just that way. He excuses himself, leaving Leonard with his mother, joins Miss Costello by the door and glances back. Mrs. Lowe is stroking Leonard's head as she hums a lullaby.
rev. 10/13/89 p.55a		 LEONARD I'd like to go outside.
109		109.   EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY A 747 roaring down a runway. At the edge of it, it lifts off and thunders over Sayer and Leonard and the parked Toyota. Exhilerated, Leonard waves. The music CONTINUES OVER: 110.   OMITTED                                                    110 111.   EXT. THE BRONX / CITY ISLAND - DAY                         111 An expressway. The Toyota traveling at "astounding" speed, passing a sign that reads CITY ISLAND.
r!v. 10/13/89   p.58		Boats and fish markets and lush vegetation. Paradise compared to the Bronx. The Toyota turns down a side road near the water         t and into the driveway of Sayer's small wooden house. w   '..                     .         ' And the mus ic ends.
rev. 10/13/89   p.59		As Leonard considers each pair of glasses ... SAYER Those are my normal interior glasses. And spare pair. Those, I wear outside. Two pairs, in case I los.e one. Those, those are my daytime reading glasses. And spare. Those are for close work. For fine print. Those are my nighttime reading glasses -
113.		113.   INT. SAYER'S LIVING ROOM - DAY They've cleared places on the sofa and chair and sit there Q   sipping their tea.       *
rev. 10/13/89 p.60		SAYER I can date my interest in science precisely, actually. I'd been                                   * sent off to boarding school - a place perhaps not quite as Dickensian as I remember it - when I happened to come across the periodic table of elements.  Maybe if they were less unpredictable . . . He shrugs. Silence again. LEONARD Eleanor would disagree with you.                                * Sayer stares at him blankly. He doesn't seem to know who "Eleanor11 is.                                .                            *
rev.10/13/89    p.61		SAYER -~                   Eleanor? ^r *                           LEONARD Miss Costello. SAYER Oh, yes, of course.     silence grows awkward.                                 7
sayer		We should be getting back. Sayer crosses over to the sideboard, to the pairs of glasses, stares at them for several moments, and picks up two pairs. 114.   OMITTED                                                       114 114A. EXT. PARKING LOT - BAINBRIDGE - DAY                        114A. Climbing out of his car, Kaufman sees Sayer striding toward him. He glances to the sky, Kaufman, to God, and silently complains to Him. '4 115.   INT. STAFF CAFETERIA, BAINBRIDGE - LATER - DAY                115 Cafeteria workers carting serving trays back to the kitchen. Nurses and orderlies and office workers at tables with finished' meals and cups of coffee. They seem unaware of Drs. Sayer and Kaufman at a table near the door. KAUFMAN z^                   When you say expensive, what are we talking about?
sayer		Isolated circumstances -- the mention of his name, notes of particular pieces of music, the touch of another human being -- managed on occasion to briefly summon him, but these awakenings were rare and transient, lasting only a moment or two. Sayer glances to Miss Costello.   She nods, "Good, that's better." SAYER The rest of the time he remained in a profoundly eventless place ~ deprived of all sense of history and happening and self -- encysted, cocooned, enveloped in this metaphorical if not physiological equivalent of sleep . . . or death. Tight on the screen, on Leonard, as he was. Looking more like a photograph of a man than a motion picture of one. SAYER This was his condition when first seen by me in a remote bay of this hospital. And the quality of his life for the last 30 years. The "before picture" of Leonard on the screen is replaced with the "after" -- his eyes alert, his hands exploring a desk microphone. He glances up and off at something. LEONARD  I'm back.
118.		118.   INT. THE PHARMACY - DAY The raw L-Dopa powder, 20,000 dollars worth, has arrived. It sits on a pharmacy counter in large clear bags. Sayer and Ray peer between racks of medicine at two teenage girls and two very old men chatting in a corner of the pharmacy. RAY They're volunteers from the   : neighborhood. SAYER Wonderful. v                   119. 119.   OMITTED 120.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - DAY                              120. Several empty medicine paper-cups. The "garden of stone," reassembled. Sayer knows better than to sit and wait, that nothing is going to immediately happen, but he sits and waits anyway. As does Miss Costello. As does Leonard and his mother.
ry		 121. CONT.                                                             121. NIGHT NURSE It's a miracle.
122.		122.     INT. LEONARD'S WARD - MOMENTS LATER - NIGHT They appear at the threshold, Sayer, Miss Costello, the night nurse, the others, and peer into the darkened room: In the quiet, in the shadows, in the moonlight filtering in through the windows, the post-encephalitics are emerging from their "cocoons," rising from the "dead" like Lazarus from the earth, reborn. Moving slowly past the beds: A figure rediscovering the feeling of her skin; another, the sound of his breath; another,' the beating of her heart. A figure still asleep . . . wakes. And for the first time in nearly half a century sees herself in the world. Tight on Sayer, on the look of awe on his face as he stares at the scene going on in the darkened ward. His glance finds Leonard who is sitting up in his bed, smiling.
mag da		... t he garden er, he mus t prune the fruit trees ... the roses . . . I think he's forget . . .
nur se		Miriam ... Miriam . . .
f rancis		. . . I was aware of things, but no thi ng mea nt a nyt hin g, the re w as no connection to me.  ... or two . . .
xu/ os > vau.bl>nkud           pg.6		123.CONT.                                                          123. Hiss Costello finds herself at a loss for a moment . . . MISS COSTELLO We'll find them for you.     We'll track them down. Lucy again, Sayer still at her side. LUCY . . . I called to my sister, but she couldn't hear me. No one could hear me. I was alone . . .  And then I woke up. She smiles. Sayer tries to. He hesitates ... but finally can't help asking her - SAYER Lucy, what year is it? LUCY What year is it? You don't know? He shakes his head 'no.' She glances around the place, then leans close to him and whispers - LUCY 26. MIRIAM O.S. DoctorI   Doctor!                                      . *                                , Sayer turns to the urgent voice, concerned, and sees Miriam flanked by a large group of staff from other parts of the hospital gathered at the threshold of the room. MIRIAM I walked all the way over there. And back. What a perfect day. The group at the doorway applauds, and it CARRIES OVER:
f123b.cont.                              ,                      123b		Leonard, moving along the corridor with Saver's camera and tripod  slows and listens: PAULA O.S. . . . the Mighty Mets stormed 11 their locker room shortly after nine o'clock on their night to remember - He moves toward the voice, traces it to a crafts area, where a young woman is reading from the sports page to an older man tied to his wheelchair. Though it's doubtful the man is even aware of her presence, she reads to him as if her were, and in the process, draws Leonard into the sound of her words until there are no sounds but her words: PAULA "Released from bondage and ridicule after seven destitute seasons, they raised the roof of Shea Stadium - while their fans attempted to dismantle it - in one of the loudest, wildest victory celebrations in baseball     : history - "         ._ The reverie is suddenly shattered, the real sounds of the hospital rising back up, as Sidney, wild with excitement, bangs through the far doors of the corridor. He sprints past the crafts area, past Leonard, runs the entire length of the corridor, and -
124-12		124-128.   OMITTED 129.   INT. LEONARD'S DAYROOM - CONTINUED - DAY                    1 Sidney bursts into the room out of breath and scans the faces of the awakened post-encephalitics and staff. He spots Sayer, seated with a woman, her back to him and the door. She slowly turns to look over her shoulder and, seeing Sidney, smiles. LOLLY Hi, Sidney. There's a kind of hush. Conversations, activities cease. Everyone is looking at Sidney. Not knowing what else to say, he manages a hesitant -- SIDNEY Hi.
132		132.   INT. MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY - NEW YORK - DAY Moving slowly toward a herd of still and silent elephants in a cavernous, darkened room. As a nun counts the heads of parochial school children filing past the huge beasts, Miss Costello counts the heads of the post-encephalitics. Both come up short and glance frantically around. NUN                    v  Dr. Sayer?
leonard		I live here.
134.		134.   INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA- LATER - DAY Leonard and Paula at a table. At other tables are patients who do look like patients. PAULA I don't know if he knows I visit him or not. I don't know that he knows who I am. My mother doesn't think so. She doesn't; come around any more-- LEONARD  But you do. PAULA Sometimes I think I see something.                          * I think I see a change. And for a                           * second, I see him like he was . . .                         * She smiles at the memory of her father like he was . . . but then   * it's gone and her smile fades. PAULA Does that make any sense? A slow nod from him . . .                                               * LEONARD s Yes.                                                       * His tone is that of someone speaking of a fact, rather than          * offering an opinion. She studies him . . . and eventually:           * PAULA Why are you here?
138a.		138A. OMITTED 139.   INT. ROSELAND - LATER - EVENING                         139. The band in the middle of "You Hade Me Love You." At the bar - ROSE Is he betrothed, do you know? Miss Costello doesn't know who she could possibly mean. She ,-       follows her sightline to the opposite wall, to a chair, to Sayer sitting alone. MISS COSTELLO Not that I know of. I kind of doubt it. Rose gets up and crosses toward Sayer. Seeing her coming, he smiles ... but the smile slowly begins to fade as she sings to him: ROSE You made me love you I didn't want to do it I didn't want to do it . . . Singing as she does it, she pulls him out of his chair. Embarrassed, he resists, but she finally gets on the dance floor. Never more mortified in his life  he "dances . . . " And the band finishes the song.             '
142		LEONARD                                      " Everybody have a good time? Leonard doesn't wait for the answer, returns to his typing. Sayer comes closer. SAYER What are you doing? He peers over Leonard's shoulder to read what he's typing, and a slow smile crosses his face. SAYER V.O. "One - typewriters and writing supplies in all dayrooms at all times . . .
143		143.   INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY Drifting slowly across the faces of Kaufman, the director and the other board members as Sayer reads to them from a typewritten sheet of paper -- SAYER                  ; " . . . Two - music and dance classes for those patients who desire them. Three - technical courses for those who wish to learn a trade. Four - patients' grievance committees. Five - the same food in the patients' cafeteria as in the staff's. Six . . . " and I happen to think this is an excellent idea, "the establishment of a permanent hospital library. And "Seven - televisions that work."
leonard		Things that matter. Things that have happened to me. Things I've cone to understand. Things.
sayer		Stay there. I'm coming over. LEONARD'S VOICE Good.                          * Dial tone. Sayer listens to it a moment before slowly setting the receiver back on its cradle.
leonard		Read a newspaper, people have forgotten what life is all about. They've forgotten what it is to be alive. They need to be reminded. They need to be reminded what they have, what they can lose, what I feel, this, the, the, the . . . < His mind seems to be racing ahead of his mouth's ability to
leonard		. . . the joy, the freedom, the spaciousness of life, the gift of life. This is what they've forgotten. This is what they need to remember. This is what we'll tell them. Leonard waits for a reaction to his idea, his "Gospel According to L-Dopa" lecture tour. Sayer can manage only an uncertain nod.
leonard		I am?  It makes all the difference. He brushes at his brow again. Sayer studies him, or rather the tic itself as it repeats. LEONARD          -                            * You didn't wake a thing, you woke                       * a person. I ' m a person.                              * PSYCHIATRIST Mr. Lowe? I wonder . . . are you at all aware of the unconscious hostility you're exhibiting towards us right now?                                   * Kaufman glances over to the psychiatrist, weary. The look on * Leonard's face is complete innocence; and his tone completely * without innuendo - LEONARD How could I be aware of something that's unconscious?              * Sayer smiles to himself. So does Kaufman. The psychiatrist * doesn't.                                                  ** KAUFMAN I 'm curious . . . I can tell this is important to you but I ' m not sure why. What would you do if you went out?
160.		^   160.   INT. PATIENTS' CAFETERIA - DAY Leonard at a table. Waiting. Sayer appears. Sits. LEONARD Yeah, I was aware of it.  I was nervous. It's nothing. What'd they say? SAYER They said it's a dangerous place out there. They said they can't be held responsible for what might happen to you out there. They said no. Leonard nods, sips his coffee, seems to take the decision in stride. LEONARD And what did you say? SAYER They don't have to listen to me. LEONARD Did you agree with them?
sayer		 I have to be sure you're well. There'll be time enough - Leonard gets up out of his chair -- LEONARD Bye. -- and turns to leave. SAYER Leonard ... Leonard ignores him and walks out --      :
,. 164		164.   INT. WARD 5 STAIRWELL & CORRIDOR - DAY Coming up a flight of stairs, 1930's music can be heard.          ,, Reaching a caged landing the orderly escorting Sayer unlocks* door, leads him along a short corridor to another door and unlocks that one.
166.		166.   EXT. BAINBRIDGE HOSPITAL - NIGHT * Light glows in only a few of the windows. In one, on the third floor, the examination room, a figure in        .* silhouette , behind bars, slowly paces.
172.		172.   INT.' KAUFMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT Sayer and Kaufman alone in the room, arguing - SAYER - He's lived for thirty years without the ability to release his anger - KAUFMAN - So have the others - SAYER I happen to think his behavior's                      . more natural than theirs - KAUFMAN              t Really - and his tics and paranoia? They're more natural - ; SAYER He's in that place. KAUFMAN Oh, is that it - SAYER We wake him up, then lock him up, that's not "paranoia," that's a fact. KAUFMAN I've got 20 psychotics up there, "doctor," refusing to eat. They have no idea whv they're refusing to eat. How long should I let that go  - SAYER He knows why, hs. wants out.
192. *		192.   INT. OPERATING THEATRE - NIGHT Though the junk has been cleared and some of the railings                      * ripped out, the place is still grim, unpainted. Wood scraps                    * and workmen's tools lay around. There's a wheelchair ramp,                     * half-built, not yet in place.                                                  * LEONARD I feel good when I ' m working. I feel good in here.                                                 * In this room. They're alone in it, he and Sayer, by a table- * saw that's cluttered with the original hospital blueprints and * Leonard's plans and notes.
lucy		I know what year it is . .      . I ju st ca n' t i ma gin e be i ng o lde r th an tw e nt y- t wo , I h a veno e xper ience at i t.  I know it's not 1926 . . .         I just need it to be.
paula		.. I worked . . . I had friends (p             over . . . I went dancing . . . that's about it . . . Leonard, ticcing, nods, smiles through his grimace, imagining those things. PAULA I know, I should do something with my life. LEONARD Like what? Those are great things. I've never done any of those things. PAULA You will. Leonard shakes his nead 'no.' LEONARD They'll never let me out of this place. They shouldn't. They consider each other for several moments -- the one, young and healthy; the other, old and ill. LEONARD I'm not well. I feel well inside when I see you. I wish you could see what's inside. Instead of this. PAULA I can see it. Silence. As much as Leonard wants to say "I love you," he knows he cannot, that it would be ludicrous. Instead: LEONARD Goodbye. He ho lds out o ne of his sh aking han ds to her. S he reach es to it, places her hand on it, holds it, and the shaking slowly, slowly, slowly begins to subside. She lifts him gently out of his wheelchair and leads him away    * from the table. She arranges his arms in such a way that he is sort of holding her and begins to slowly dance with him.
oq		L EONARD  It's kind to give life only to take it away? There is self-loathing in his voice. On the screen, Leonard's trying to operate an electric shaver that seems alive. MISS COSTELLO It's given and taken away from all of us. On screen, Leonard buttons buttons on his shirt and glances up smiling, proud. Tight on sayer in the dark room, the projector light flickering behind him. More to himself -- SAYER Why doesn't that comfort me?
3		MISS COSTELLO 
o		LEONARD O.S. * /T\                It's winter. His voice is flat, inflectionless. His eyes, with little life behind them, staring at the falling snow. He's in a wheelchair. SAYER O.S. Yes. LEONARD Am I speaking? SAYER O.S. Yes. Leonard's eyes drift to a chair, his mother's chair, the one she has used for thirty years. It's empty. SAYER O.S. Your mother is well. She's home. She visits you on Sundays. Leonard slowly nods.    Somehow he knows that. LEONARD                : f ~^               She's living her own life. SAYER O.S.                     , She's trying to. Leonard's eyes drift again, across to silent ghost-like figures in wheelchairs, the post-encephalitics, all of them, "asleep" again. SAYER O.S. They fought, as you did, with great courage. They were strong. Leonard looks down at his hands and feels one with the other. He looks back at the "sleeping" patients, not comprehending why they cannot do the same. LEONARD I'm stronger? Sayer is finally revealed seated beside him. He doesn't answer. Leonard's hands slowly reach to his face and feel its features. LEONARD ,x             I'm here, aren't I?
sa yer		Because I was wondering . . . m aybe ... you h ave n o pla ns .. .? MIS S COS TELL O I ha ve no -
219.		219.   EXT. ROCKEFELLER CENTER - NIGHT Prometheus stealing fire from heaven, dwarfed by the Christmas tree that towers over him. Figures glide past the statue. Skaters on the ice rink. It's magical.- At *least as-seen, through .Leonard's eyes. From the promenade he watches the skaters gliding gracefully over the ice. Hector appears at his side. HECTOR                 : I ' m sorry to bother you, Len, I just thought you should know this is adding up, you know? Without taking his eyes from the skaters below, Leonard digs into his coat pocket and hands Hector a clump of money, hundreds of dollars. Embarrassed - HECTOR I didn't mean that, just - LEONARD I don't need it, you keep it. Hector puts the money back in Leonard's coat. Leonard finds Paula among the skaters, isolates her from them, and watches her glide around the rink. A fine mist of snow is falling, veiling her. HECTOR Beautiful, isn't it. LEONARD Unforgettable.
****Dialogues from script :Babel.txt****

hassan		 Good morning Abdullah... I brought you this...
hassan		 It's almost new.
abdullah		How much do you want for everything?
hassan		One thousand dirhams.
abdullah		One thousand dirhams? I'll give you one thousand and a goat.
hassan		With this rifle, your sons will be able to kill plenty of jackals.
abdullah		Let Yussef shoot.
ahmed		I want to shoot first.
hassan		Look, load it like this.
abdullah		Your turn.
yasira		Your lunch.
abdullah		You better kill at least three jackals.
hassan		And make sure no one sees you with the rifle, hide it if you see someone approach you.
ahmed		Yussef, Yussef...
ahmed		What are you doing?
yussef		What the hell do you care?
ahmed		Come on, let's go.
ahmed		Five to two.
yussef		There's a jackal over there.
yussef		Zora doesn't mind.
ahmed		She doesn't, but I do.
yussef		This is between her and me.
ahmed		You're both pigs. Next time I'm going to tell my dad.
yussef		Stay out of this.
ahmed		If you want me to stay out of it, don't do it.
yussef		What are you doing?
ahmed		Hassan said that it could hit things three kilometers away, but it can't even reach that rock over there.
yussef		That's because you don't know how to shoot. Give me the rifle.
ahmed		See, it can't reach it.
yussef		Give me another bullet.
ahmed		Yeah, but that's not three kilometers.
yussef		You're not aiming right.
ahmed		I'll shoot.
yussef		Let me shoot.
ahmed		I told you.    Hassan's a liar.
amelia		 I won...
mike		No, I won.
amelia		 Yes... yes sir... yes sir, Mrs. Rachel told me...I'm very sorry. How is Mrs. Susan?... No sir, don't worry...
mike		Hi dad... dad, guess what? Today, at school, they brought some baby chickens...I held one in my hand. He was really little and he was all warm...  Dad, are you ok?...And Mariana wanted to take one home, but the teacher didn't let her...
amelia		 Did you brush your teeth?
mike		Will you tell us a story?
amelia		One and then you're going to sleep.
mike		Pajaritos?     Little birds?
amelia		Of course, that's what hawks eat. So, one day the hawk flew so, so high that it crashed into an airplane. It fainted and started to fall. And when it was about to hit the ground, all the birds flew toward him and saved him.
debbie		They saved him?
amelia		Yes, and when the hawk was healthy again he went to talk to the birds and said: I want to thank you for saving me, but I can't change and I'm going to keep hunting you. The little birds answered: we don't care that you hunt us, because that's who you are. But we will always save you, because that's who we are.
debbie		No.
amelia		Quedamos en que se iban a dormir con la luz apagada.
debbie		But I'm scared.
amelia		No pasa nada.
debbie		I'm scared that what happened to Pat is gonna happen to me.
amelia		A ti no te va a pasar eso...
debbie		Pat died while she was sleeping.
amelia		That only happens to some babies when they're really little.
mike		Then why did daddy get so angry at mommy?
amelia		He wasn't angry, he was just very sad.
debbie		He left.
amelia		Go to sleep. I'll sit here with you, but you can't talk anymore.
amelia		Yes...
amelia		Your sister-in-law promised me to find someone.
amelia		It's because... I told Mrs. Jones three months ago that today is my son's wedding.
amelia		Sir, everything is ready. Can't anyone come take care of the kids? It's just one day.
amelia		 Do you want another quesadilla?
debbie		Mhh.
mike		How many little birds did the hawk eat?
amelia		 None, because he started to like quesadillas.
debbie		Is the bus here?
amelia		 Yes, but today you're not going to school.
debbie		Why?
amelia		We have things to do.
amelia		 I just want you to take of them for today.
amelia		And she won't go out?
amelia		Ok, thanks.    I'll call you tomorrow.
lucia		 I can't Amelia.
amelia		Please, it's my son's wedding. I helped you out with that thing with your boyfriend.
lucia		I really can't.
amelia		Just for the day, Lucia.   I'll be back for them tonight.
lucia		And what do I tell Mrs. Black?
amelia		Tell her they're your nephews.
lucia		Yeah right, they look just like me...with this gringa look I have.
mike		Are we going to see your house?
amelia		Yes, you're going to see my house.
mike		Is it far?
amelia		 Not very.
santiago		 Good morning Aunt Amelia.
amelia		Good morning.
santiago		Are they coming?
amelia		I couldn't find anyone to leave them with. Their parents aren't coming back today.
santiago		Why bring them, they're just going to make trouble.
amelia		They're good kids.
santiago		I know a woman who can take care of them.
amelia		Santiago, I have to take them. I can't leave them with just anybody.
santiago		What if you lose your job?
amelia		Come on, don't tempt the fates.
anwar		 The Berbers built these kasbahs. They made them like forts and here they would reside after finishing their caravans.
richard		This place is beautiful, don't you think?
susan		 Yeah, yeah it's very pretty...
anwar		Now, I'd like to show you the materials that were used to build the walls...
waiter		 You want to order?
richard		I'll have a chicken cous-cous and a Coke, please.
susan		What do you have that doesn't have fat in it?
waiter		Everything is delicious.
susan		I'll have the fried eggplant and a diet Coke.
waiter		We don't have diet Coke.
susan		Then a regular Coke.
richard		Look, look: a hawk.
susan		Richard, why did we come here?
richard		What d'you mean why? I thought you would like it.
susan		Really: why are we here?
richard		To forget everything, to be alone.
susan		Alone?
richard		The Coke is warm.
susan		Yeah, but you don't know what kind of water is in there.
richard		Why can't you ever relax.    You're always stressed.
susan		You're the one stressing me out. You're why I can't relax.
richard		You could if you tried.
susan		Tried? Don't you think I tried?
richard		You're never going to forgive me, are you?
susan		Do you even know what I'm talking about?
richard		Susan, please; we didn't come all this way just to argue.
susan		Oh, we didn't? Then when are we supposed to "argue"? Or are you planning on running away again?
boys		Stilo...stilo...
susan		I don't have any money... I don't have any...
richard		Here.
susan		What are you doing?
richard		Susan, what's wrong?
chieko		 The ball was out.
referee		 No, it was good.
teammate		Let it go.
chieko		That was out.
referee		It was on the line.
chieko		You're not just deaf, you're blind.
referee		You're out.
chieko		You're an asshole.
teammate 1		You shouldn't have lost your temper. We lost the game.
chieko		It wasn't my fault, it was the ref.
teammate 2		If you hadn't been thrown out, we would've won the game.
teammate 1		Why are you in a bad mood?
teammate 2		She's always in a bad mood because nobody's fucked her yet.
chieko		I'm gonna fuck your dad to get rid of my mood.
yasujiro		What do you want to eat?
chieko		I said I'd meet my friends from the team at Eve's.
yasujiro		Weren't we going to have lunch together?
chieko		Dad, I told you I was going to eat with them, but you never pay attention to me.
yasujiro		Why do you want to fight?
yasujiro		 Don't forget you have the dentist at four.
hostess		Do you have a table?
chieko		Why all the way in the corner?
mitsu		Because of the view.
young man		Hello.
chieko		Tell him I couldn't read his lips.
mitsu		 What's the matter?
chieko		 They look at us like we're monsters.
mitsu		Oh, come off it.
chieko		Now they're going to meet the real hairy monster.
chieko		I'll see you later at my place.
ahmed		Hurry up, man, hurry...
zora		What's wrong?
ahmed		What do you care, whore?
yussef		Don't talk to her like that.
yasira		What are you doing here?
yussef		Something we ate gave us a stomach ache.
yasira		And is that why you're insulting your sister?
yussef		We were feeling really ill.
yasira		The goats are going to feel even worse if they don't eat. Take them out again.
ahmed		Our stomach really hurts.
yasira		Then start jerking the meat.
ahmed		D'you think something happened?
yussef		I don't know.
ahmed		People were screaming.
yussef		It was both our faults. We both shot.  Swear to me you'll never say anything.
ahmed		I swear.   Nobody.
abdullah		Thank you, I'll see you tomorrow.
yussef		Mother, mother, father says he wants to have dinner now.
abdullah		Did you kill any jackals?
yussef		We shot at them, but didn't hit them.
abdullah		You have to kill them. If not they're going to eat all the goats.
yasira		Why are you home so late?
abdullah		They closed the road, and we had to take the long way around.  Apparently some terrorists killed an American tourist.
yasira		An American?
abdullah		Yes, the terrorists attacked a tour bus on the road.
yasira		But there aren't any terrorists here.
abdullah		You never know.
yussef		And how do you know the American died?
abdullah		That's what they were saying. The police are looking for the culprits.
santiago		See how easy it is to get into paradise?
debbie		Is this Mexico?
amelia		 Yes, this is Mexico.
mike		My mom told us Mexico is really dangerous.
santiago		 Yes, it's full of Mexicans.
santiago		 Are you hungry?
mike		What's this flavor called?
santiago		 Cajeta... it's called cajeta.
mike		 Cayeto...
santiago		No, cajeta... cajeta...
mike		Cajeto, cajeta... It's the best thing I've ever tasted in my life.  Can I buy some for my mom? She's gonna love them.
debbie		Are they crashed cars?
amelia		Yes...
debbie		Did lots of people die?
amelia		I guess so...
debbie		I don't like Mexico.
comadre 1		 Hey, so you finally made it.
luis		Hi mom, how're you doing?
amelia		Son, you look like Pedro Infante.
comadre 1		More like Luis Miguel.
amelia		Where's the bride?
luis		She's not here yet.
amelia		What d'you mean she's not here yet?
luis		Well, she ain't here.
amelia		Look son, these are Mike and Debbie, the kids I take care of.
luis		Pleased to meet you Mike.
santiago		Psst.   Lucio, come here.
lucio		Come with me.
daughter 1		 Oh ma, I don't know how you did it but it zipped up perfectly.
amelia		And it's been 15 years since I last wore this dress.
daughter 1		You haven't changed a bit, ma.
amelia		Working, dear, working, that's what keeps one young.
daughter 2		Nothing ma, nothing.
richard		Take it easy honey, take it easy.
susan		 I'm ok... I'm ok...
richard		Is anybody a doctor?
anwar		It's far away, about four hours.  There's a clinic that's a little closer, about an hour and a half to the south. By bus it'll take us about two hours and a half though.
richard		Does that takes away from Marrakesh?
anwar		Yes, but it's the closest thing we've got.
richard		I need your help. We were attacked.
old man		 I don't understand...
richard		Help... hospital...
old man		 I don't understand you sir.
richard		Tell him we need his help.
barth		Marrakech isn't this way. They're going to shoot at us again.
richard		We've got to get her to a hospital.
barth		They're going to kill us all. Turn back... turn the bus around...
richard		Shut up, god damn it!
susan		It hurts, it hurts...
richard		Easy, sweetie, easy...
susan		It hurts... it hurts so much...
richard		 Isn't there anywhere else we can take her?
anwar		We can take her to my town. It's near here and there's a doctor. In the meantime we can call Erfourd for an ambulance.
richard		Ok.
anwar		 Make a right onto the next road.
richard		Are we here?
anwar		Yes sir, this is my house.
richard		Easy, darling, easy...
susan		Don't touch me there.
anwar		Here... here...
anwar's grandmother		 Put her there...
richard		I need to call an ambulance and contact my embassy.
anwar		If you have the number of the embassy, I can go call.
richard		I need to make a phone call.
anwar		Of course, come with me.
susan		Don't leave me here alone...
richard		Don't worry, I'll be right back.
anwar		She can take care of her.
richard		You're going to be ok.
anwar		 Hold and release the tourniquet every once in a while.
anwar's grandmother		 Get out of here... out...
douglas		How is your wife?
richard		Bad. Very bad.
tom		Get her outta there and let's go.
richard		And where should I take her?
tom		In Egypt, in a town like this, they slit thirty German tourists' throats. They might do the same to us.
anwar		No, not here.
tom		 What do you know? We have to get out of here as soon as possible.
lilly		It's very hot, sir, and the driver turned off the air conditioning. I'm feeling sick.
richard		You can't leave us here.
james		What's the use in staying?
richard		In case I need the bus.
james		They can go drop us off and then come back for you.
douglas		I'll stay with you if you need me.
elyse		And why would you stay?
richard		Please wait.     Let me try to deal with this.
tom		We're not going to risk our lives, so hurry.
douglas		You do what you have to do, we'll wait.
anwar		 We need your phone.     I'll pay for the call.
anwar's grandmother		 How do you feel?
susan		Can I have some water?
anwar's grandmother		 Trust in god.
richard		Yes... Rachel? It's Richard...
richard		Yes, we're still in Morocco...Rachel, there was an accident, your sister was shot...
richard		I don't know... We were shot at from some hills.
rachel		Is she ok?
richard		She was hit in her neck and shoulder. Rachel, she's not doing well... I need you to tell the embassy as soon as possible... wait... and call Mark...
richard		Anwar, where are we?
anwar		In Tazarine, three hours southwest of Erfoud.
richard		Were in Tazarine, T-a-z-a-r-I-n-e Three hours southwest of Erfoud... in the desert... it's a town... there's no hospital... There's nothing here at all...
richard		From a shop. Rachel, this is urgent... urgent... call the embassy... They have to help us... call James too...
richard		I don't know... Rachel, you're sister's badly hurt... do you understand? Call for help... now...
anwar		I'll call Erfoud so they send one over.
richard		And find a doctor...
anwar		They've already gone to look for him.
anwar's grandmother		 Anwar, bring me some water.
mohammed		 Why did you bring them here?
anwar		She's hurt, we had to take care of her.
mohammed		In town they're saying she was shot by terrorists. Do you know what they're going to do to us when they find out she's here?
anwar		Don't be paranoid and go help find the doctor.
susan		Get me out of here... please...
richard		I'm going to as soon as I can. I've already called Rachel; she's going to tell the embassy.
susan		I told you we shouldn't have come.
richard		How long until the ambulance gets here?
anwar		About an hour and a half. It's coming from Alnif.
richard		That much? Isn't there anyone here who could take her?
anwar		My brother already called a doctor, he's coming.
anwar's grandmother		 I have to clean you.
anwar		 Miss, my grandmother is going to help you.
susan		No, not that.
anwar's grandmother		 It will stop the bleeding.
susan		No, no... not that...
richard		 Let's wait for the doctor.
mohammed		 The sheik and the moukadem are here.
sheik		 Allah be with you.
anwar		 Allah be with you.
sheik		 I am Atallah the sheik and this is Walid, the moukadem. I'm very sorry about your wife.
richard		I don't understand French.
anwar		He says he is very sorry about your wife.
sheik		 Tell him that I want to ask him some questions.
anwar		 Can he ask you some questions?
sheik		 Do you have any enemies in this country?
anwar		He asks if you have any enemies in this country.
richard		Of course not.
sheik		 Then why were you shot at?
anwar		Why did you come to Morocco?
richard		Vacation.
anwar		 He has no idea.
sheik		 What does he do for a living?
anwar		What do you do for a living?
richard		I'm a magazine editor.
anwar		 He edits magazines.
sheik		 Anti-muslim magazines?
anwar		Anti-muslim magazines?
richard		No, magazine magazines.
anwar		 No, normal magazines.
richard		Tell him we need to get my wife out of here. Ask him if the ambulance is on its way.
anwar		 He wants to get his wife out of here. He wants to know if the ambulance is on its way.
sheik		 Tell him the federal police are in charge of this, that they are going to send the ambulance.
anwar		He says the federal police are already in charge, that they are going to send the ambulance.
sheik		 Hey, did your cousin finally end up getting married?
anwar		 Yep, she's married, she doesn't live here anymore.
richard		What did he say?
anwar		He gives you his blessing.
richard		Thank you.
receptionist		My niece sells these creams. And just look at my skin now. I'm going to turn fifty-two and look, almost no wrinkles...
receptionist		Here are the sterilized drill bits.
dentist		I-think-you-have-two-cavities-in- your-molars.
hamano		Are you Yasujiro Wataya's daughter?
doorman		She's deaf mute. Face her when you speak so she can read your lips.
hamano		Are-you-Yasujiro-Wataya's-daughter?
kenji		Tell him to call us. And don't be scared, we're not going to do anything bad to him.
hamano		Thank you.
mitsu		Are you ready?
chieko		Yeah, I'm just going to get my bag.
mitsu		The cops came again?
chieko		Yeah. They hadn't come in nine months. But these were different cops.
mitsu		Did they come to ask about your mothers' death?
chieko		No, but they're probably going to ask my dad about the same things.
mitsu		They're just not convinced, are they?
chieko		Believe it or not, I liked one of the cops.
mitsu		Did you put on some panties?
alarid		 Are you sure it was here?
old man		Sure. I drive down this road every day. The American tried to stop me right here.
alarid		Where was the bus?
old man		Over there.
alarid		Look further to the right.
old man		I had to drive my grandson home.
policeman voice		Captain Alarid, Captain Alarid... We found the cartridges.
alarid		Stop right there...
hassan		I won...
wife		Are you expecting anyone?
hassan		No.
alarid		Hassan Ibrahim?
hassan		Yes.
police officer		Drop your weapon.
hassan		It's not a weapon, it's my knife.
police officer		Drop it, now...
hassan		What did we do?
abdullah		Hold them.
alarid		Why did you shoot at the bus?
hassan		I didn't shoot at anyone.
alarid		Then who, you idiot?
hassan		It wasn't me.
alarid		That was your rifle.
hassan		No, not anymore, I sold it today.
alarid		Oh yeah?   To who?
abdullah		Take these goat skins to Naguib and see if he wants to buy them.
alarid		Hey, do you know where Abdullah Adboum lives?
yussef		Yes.
alarid		They told us he lived around here.
yussef		No, we just live here with our mother. Abdullah lives over there.
alarid		If you're lying to me I'm going to come back and cut your balls off.
yussef		You can come back whenever you like.
ahmed		Papa... papa...
abdullah		What happened?
ahmed		The police... they're looking for you...
abdullah		Me?    Why?
yussef		No, they're not looking for you... they're looking for us...
abdullah		You?    Why?
yussef		Because of what happened to the tourist...
abdullah		What tourist?
ahmed		The American... Yussef killed her...
yussef		That's not true, we both did.
yasira		What are you saying?
ahmed		Yussef started shooting at the cars because Hassan said that the bullet could go really far...
yussef		That's a lie, you started shooting at the cars.
ahmed		Yes, but you killed her.
abdullah		What the hell are you talking about?
ahmed		Yussef killed the American and he spies on Zora naked and Zora lets him watch her...
abdullah		What is your brother talking about?
zora		That's bullshit.
ahmed		It's not bullshit; she's a whore and my brother spies on her...
amelia		 How many pots of rice did you make?
daughter 1		I made two.
amelia		Too many people have come, that's not going to be enough. Make two more pots.
santiago		Sure thing.
amelia		 Luis, the priest is here and Patricia hasn't arrived. Where is she?
luis		No idea.
amelia		Fifteen minutes left before the wedding and you have no idea?
luis		What if she doesn't want to get married? Shut up and come help me look for her.
santiago		 Who wants to help me with the chickens?
santiago		 I'll give ten pesos to the first one of you who catches a chicken.
amelia		 Did you get into a fight with Patricia?
luis		No, not at all.
amelia		I didn't bust my hump to pay for this wedding for Patricia not to show. So she's either coming or she's coming.
santiago		 Ready. Now who's going to help me?
amelia		I'm going to see if they're inside.
amelia		What's the matter?
mother		Patricia's not feeling well.
santiago		 Aren't you going to help?
mike		It's not good to kill animals.
santiago		 Have you ever been to Kentucky Fried Chicken?
patricia		 My belly's been hard since the morning.
amelia		That happens when you're nervous.
madre		D'you think the baby's coming?
amelia		There's no way the baby's coming; she's only six months pregnant.
patricia		But my belly feels hard, really hard.
amelia		D'you want to get married?
patricia		Yes.
amelia		Well, let's go then.
madre		And what if the baby comes out?
amelia		Well, we'll have the wedding and baptize the kid while we're at it.
richard		Thank you.
anwar		The doctor's here.
doctor		 Allah be with you.
anwar's grandmother		 Allah be with you.
doctor		 The bullet didn't hit her spine or split her jugular. But it did shatter her clavicle and she could bleed to death.
richard		What did he say?
anwar		He says she will be fine.
richard		Stop lying to me god damn it, and tell me what the fuck he said!
doctor		Hospital... need hospital...
richard		Yes, we know that. What can you do in the meantime?
doctor		 Tell him I have to stitch up the wound to stop the bleeding.
anwar		He has to sew up her wounds.
susan		What did he say?
richard		You need some stitches.
susan		What do you mean stitches?
richard		You're not going to give her any anesthetic?
anwar		 No, he doesn't use anesthetic.
richard		What kind of doctor is he?
anwar		He's a veterinarian, but he is good.
richard		He can't take care of her.
susan		Richard, he might infect the wound...
doctor		 Tell him that if I don't stitch up her wound she may bleed to death.
anwar		If he doesn't sew up the wound, she may bleed to death.
doctor		 And tell him her clavicle is broken. We have to fasten a splint to it.
anwar		He says she has a broken bone and he has to put a splint on it.
doctor		 We're going to have to hold her down.
richard		Honey, this is going to hurt a little.
susan		Richard, don't let him...
richard		Calm down... calm down... Susan, they have to sew you up... relax...
susan		No, no...no..
richard		Honey, please try to relax...
mohammed		I don't understand why Anwar brought them here.
friend 1		Well he spends all his time with them, what do you expect.
friend 2		The woman is hurt, he had to help her.
mohammed		Yeah?   And when have they helped us?
friend 1		I liked one of those tourists.
friend 2		Really?   They're all skin and bones.
mohammed		Shh... sh... listen.
friend 3		Hey look, it's the story.
friend 2		They said Tazarine, did you hear? We were on the radio...
mohammed		Shh, shut up.
mohammed		I fucking told Anwar, I told him he was only going to get us in trouble... he never comes and when he does he always brings trouble...god damn it...
friend 1		Are the Americans going to invade our country?
mohammed		I don't know.
susan		I hate you... I hate you...
doctor		 Tell her not to move; the bullet's still inside.
anwar		 Don't move, miss. The bullet is still inside you.
susan		I don't give a shit...
richard		My love, don't move.
susan		I want to call the kids.
richard		You can't move, calm down.
susan		I want to talk to them.
richard		You can't; there's only one phone in town. I'll call them later.
susan		I want to talk to them...
jane		 Are you ok?
driver		 No air condition, no gasoline near. I'm sorry.
jane		 My husband is feeling ill.     You have to turn it on.
driver		 No possible. No gasoline near.      I'm sorry.
lilly		 Please, it's too hot.   We can get dehydrated.
driver		 I'm really sorry, forgive me, but gasoline finish with air conditioner.
tom		What is he saying?
jane		That he can't turn on the air conditioning, that it's not possible.
tom		Fuck you.   We're gettin' out of here.
tom		We've gotta talk to you.
tom		We're leaving.
richard		You can't leave us like this.
tom		There are old people here and the heat is getting to them.
richard		At least wait until an ambulance comes.
tom		One man almost fainted in the bus and there's a woman who needs to get back in time to take her medication.
richard		Is there anyone around here who can take them in?
tom		It's not about that.
lilly		Sir, we can't wait anymore.
walter		We can't leave him here alone.
tom		Well let him come, then.
douglas		His wife is in no condition to ride a bus.
tom		And lots of other people aren't in any condition to keep waiting, can't you see?
richard		Just wait, the ambulance should be here any minute now.
tom		We're giving you an hour... one hour...
kumiko		They're my cousins.
chieko		Is he deaf-mute like us?
kumiko		No, but he understands some.
haruki		What's your name?
mitsu		 Sometimes.
takeshi		Why- don't- we- go- to- Montana?
doorman		Good evening, how may I help you?
abdullah		Why did you do this?
yussef		We were testing the rifle.
abdullah		Are you idiots? You killed a woman,  And you, you got naked so your brother would see you?
ahmed		Yes, she got naked lots of times.    I saw how Yussef spied on her.
zora		That's not true.
abdullah		Is it true or not?
cop		What organization gave you the weapon?
hassan		I've told you it wasn't an organization; I got it from a hunter.
cop		What hunter?
hassan		A Japanese hunter gave it to me many years ago. I've got a picture inside. She can get it.
abdullah		We're going to hide out at Naguib's house. If the cops come, tell them we went south.
alarid		This Abdullah doesn't live where you said he did.
wife		They live where he said they do.
alarid		You're going to take us.
wife		Make a right here.
alarid		 Stop...
alarid		There they are.
yussef		The police, the police...
abdullah		Get down.   Run.
ahmed		They shot me, they shot me...
abdullah		Don't shoot, don't shoot!
santiago		 Like this, look...
jacinto		 Amelia, will you let me dance with you?
amelia		I don't think your wife would have liked that.
jacinto		C'mon Amelia, she's been dead for 10 years.
amelia		Okay, just one.
guitar player		 Now, Luis and Patricia, come forward.
amelia		Don't worry, it's ok.
luis		Good evening everyone... Hey... I want to say something. Love came today, it came here all pretty...  It's kind of like a little mouse is crawling inside of me. Because that's what love is, it's like your insides get all twisted into knots... and that, baby, is what you've taught me. And because you've shown me, I want to tell everyone that hopefully love will get inside them too...because it feels so good, really...Thanks a lot and keep havin' a good time...
mike		When are my parents getting back?
amelia		Pronto...muy pronto...
mike		They told me they were coming back today.
amelia		Se quedaron ms rato.
mike		My dad's coming back with my mom.
amelia		Yes. Yes he is.
mike		I don't want him to leave again.
amelia		He won't.
mike		I miss Pat.
amelia		Yo tambin hijito, yo tambin.
luis		 Stay the night.
amelia		I can't. I have to take these kids home and it's almost dawn.
luis		But Santiago's pretty drunk.
santiago		Drunk my ass. I'm fine. I'll go and come back in an hour.
patricia		Stay for another while, the party's just getting started.
amelia		I wish, but these kids have to go to school.
luis		You sure you're not too drunk?
santiago		Drunk my ass. I'm fine.     I'll be back soon.
amelia		 Hey... be careful...
officer		Your papers...
santiago		 From a wedding.
officer		Who are they?
santiago		They're her nephews.
officer		They don't look like you.
amelia		 I'm in charge of them.
officer		Do you have their passports?
santiago		Is there a problem?
officer		Should there be one?
debbie		Hi.
officer		Hey there, sweetie.
debbie		No, she's not my aunty.
officer		Are you drunk?
santiago		Me, sir?   No.
officer		Get out of the car.
santiago		Why, officer?
officer		I'm countin' to three...
amelia		 What are you doing?
officer		They've kidnapped some kids...
santiago		 See, I told you you shouldn't have brought them. I told you. I told you..
amelia		 Santiago, stop acting crazy and stop the car... Santiago, stop...
santiago		 Fucking asshole gringo mother-fuckers, here they come...
amelia		 Stop... Stop...
santiago		 Get out...
amelia		Are you crazy? Where?
santiago		Get out. I'll lose these bastards and then I'll come back for you.
amelia		Santiago, calm down...
santiago		Aunt Amelia, they're going to get us, get out god damn it...
amelia		 Come with me, dears.
debbie		I want to go home now.
mike		Me too.
amelia		 Don't cry. We're going home now.
richard		Thank you.
anwar		 Thank you, Yamil.
richard		Is that your daughter?
anwar		The fourth of eight.
richard		Eight?
anwar		Do you have kids?
richard		Three...  Yes, just two.
anwar		You should have more.
richard		What about you? How many wives do you have?
anwar		 I can only afford one.
richard		And is this where you live?
anwar		No, this is where my family lives. I live in Marrakesh. But I come whenever I can...
mohammed		 What happened?
policeman		 I need to talk to the American.
tom		What did he say?
mohammed		No English...
richard		 When did he find out?
anwar		 When did you know?
policeman		 A while ago... they said the ambulance isn't coming anymore.
anwar		A while ago... he says the ambulance broke down.
richard		What? Tell him to call another one. He has to get another one.
anwar		 He wants you to call another ambulance.
policeman		 You know there isn't another one.
anwar		 There isn't another ambulance.
richard		What the hell do you mean there isn't another ambulance? You've got to get her out of here...
anwar		 He asks how we're going to get the woman out of here.
policeman		 Tell him that they told me that his embassy is going to deal with it.
anwar		He says your embassy will deal with the matter.
richard		How the fuck are they going to deal with it? It's your shitty fucking country's responsibility.
policeman		 The Americans want to send one of their helicopters but I think there are some problems.
anwar		They're going to try to send a helicopter.
richard		 A helicopter?... Let's get out of here...
anwar		Where?
richard		I need to make a phone call.
tom		We can't stay here any longer. It's going to get dark soon. Lots of people aren't feeling well and its dangerous to stay here.
richard		Stop fucking with me.
tom		Don't you dare push me.
richard		Oh no?
tom		What are you doing, you stupid fuck?
richard		Leave asshole.
tom		Fuck you.
james		Hey, take it easy.
richard		I'm fed up with that asshole.
james		Try to calm down.
richard		Calm down? My wife is dying up there.
james		Come with us.
richard		Where the fuck do you want me to take her?
james		Try to understand, many of them can't go on. Tell me, honestly, is there any point in us staying?
richard		You leave and I'll kill you...
richard		Rachel... What's going on? Nobody's come... Who have you talked to... we need help...she's dying...
richard		She's very weak, please, you've got to do something.
richard		You can't just make these stupid fucking calls, you've got to do something...
richard		How the fuck do you expect me to calm down? Susan is dying...
richard		There's no time. I need to get Susan out of here now! Put Mark on the phone...
richard		God damn it, connect the fucking call.
richard		Mark, help me... Susan is dying and there are no ambulances, there's no hospital, there's nothing.
richard		I don't give a shit about political problems... Do something, now, please...
richard		Stop... Stop... Stop you mother- fuckers stop...
kenji		Hello.
kenji		You saw her jump?
kenji		Does your father still hunt?
abdullah		Yussef, stop shooting!
alarid		Move that truck... god damn it...
abdullah		Give me that rifle...
yussef		They're going to kill us.
abdullah		Give me that rifle.
alarid		What's happening?
police officer		A boy is walking this way.
alarid		Is he armed?
police officer		It doesn't look like it.
alarid		What are the others doing?
police officer		A man is holding somebody injured.
alarid		Is the other one still walking this way?
police officer		Yes.
alarid		Aim.
yussef		I killed the American, I was the only one who shot at you...
alarid		On the ground...
yussef		Save my brother...
alarid		On the ground...
yussef		Save my brother... please...
alarid		Go help them.
mike		I can't walk anymore.
amelia		We have to keep walking.
mike		Why is the air so hot?
amelia		 Because coyotes and snakes and quails have already breathed that air.
mike		We're breathing the same air animals breathe?
amelia		Yes.
mike		And it doesn't rot?
amelia		No, it doesn't rot.   We all breathe this air.
debbie		I can't anymore. I'm thirsty.
mike		So am I.
amelia		 Just a little further and we'll go look for water.
amelia		 We're going to rest here for a while.
mike		What if there are snakes?
amelia		No, there aren't any.   Come, lie down.
mike		What happening?
amelia		 Stay still.
mike		Why are we hiding if we didn't do anything wrong?
amelia		 Because they think we did something wrong.
mike		That's not true: you're bad.
amelia		No, sweetie, I'm not bad.     I just did something stupid.
amelia		Sweetie, I'm going to go look for help. Stay here and don't move.
mike		I'm not staying here alone.
amelia		Honey, you have to take care of Debbie.
mike		I'm going with you.
amelia		I won't be long. I promise.
amelia		 Stop, stop...
john		 Are they illegal immigrants?
amelia		No, they're American.
john		When did you cross?
amelia		 I didn't cross, I live here.   Please, help me find these kids.
john		Stand there and don't move.
amelia		I left those kids in the desert, I swear.
john		Turn around, now.
john		Which way are they?
amelia		 Over there.
john		Where are they?
amelia		They must be around here.
eliseo		What happened?
john		This lady said they were here, but there's nobody.
eliseo		 Ma'am, you're not lying to us, are you?
amelia		 I swear they're around here somewhere.
john		There's nobody here.
amelia		 I left them about a kilometer in from the road.
eliseo		 Which road?
john		I don't believe you.
amelia		 I swear they're around here.
eliseo		 John, wait, maybe she's telling the truth.
john		Maybe she's not, let's go.
amelia		Please sir, believe me.
susan		Richard.
richard		What do you need?
susan		Richard... if I die, take care of the kids. Especially Mike, he really needs you.
richard		You're not going to die. You can't die. You just can't.
susan		Don't ever leave them again.
richard		No, I'm not going to leave them and don't you even think about leaving me, because I'll kill you like nobody's killed you before.
susan		I peed my pants.
richard		What?
susan		I couldn't hold it in and I peed.
richard		I'm going to tell Mike on you, so you never scold him again.
susan		I need to pee again.
richard		 Do you have a pot I can borrow?
susan		I can't.
richard		Forgive me my love. When Pat died I didn't know what to do, the pain drove me crazy... I was scared, that's why I left... forgive me.
susan		I was scared too... when I saw Pat lying still in his crib...
richard		No, it wasn't your fault. I was wrong...
susan		Forgive me for not forgiving you.
richard		You missed; you got my leg.
susan		So much... so much...
richard		Anwar...Anwar...
anwar		What happened?
richard		We've got to get her out of here. Where's the clinic?
anwar		In Alnif, an hour and a half away from here.
richard		Can you get us a car we can take her in?
richard		My love... I'm going to get you out of here.   We're going to try to take you to a clinic an hour and a half away from here. Do you think you can make it?
susan		Yeah.
richard		I need you to be strong. Really strong.
richard		Thank you for lending us the car.
anwar		 He thanks you for lending us the car.
susan		Ahhh... Ahhh...
richard		Sweetie, you've got to hold on.
tendero		 Stop... Stop...
richard		Hello...
ken		Hello, Richard Jones?
richard		Yes, speaking.
richard		My wife is dying. She's in urgent need of medical attention.
richard		We've been here for five hours. What the fuck are you waiting for?
richard		I can't wait anymore... I'm taking my wife to a clinic in Tinerhir right now...
richard		We can't wait any longer.
richard		My wife is in critical condition. How long is the chopper going to take?
police officer		 Is your full name Amelia Gloria Jordn Susilla?
amelia		 Yes sir.
police officer		Do you understand English?
amelia		 Yes sir.
police officer		 Ma'am, it was a miracle that we found those kids. I don't know how you could leave them alone in the desert.
amelia		I had to look for help.
police officer		Your reckless behavior endangered their lives.
amelia		How are they?
police officer		That's none of your business, ma'am.
amelia		I just took the kids to my son's wedding.
police officer		No ma'am, you did not just do that. You took them to another country without their parents' permission and you put them in danger.
amelia		Sir, I raised these kids since they were born. I take care of them day and night. I feed them breakfast, lunch and dinner. I play with them. Mike and Debbie are like my own children.
police officer		 But they are not your kids, ma'am.
amelia		What about my nephew, Santiago?
police officer		I don't have any information on him.
amelia		I've been living here for fifteen years. My things are here, I rent a house, I made my life here.
police officer		You should've thought of that beforehand.
amelia		I want to talk to a lawyer.
police officer		If you attempt to take this to court, I assure you you will end up in jail. If you want my advice, accept the deportation and never come back.
amelia		 Do you have a cigarette?
anwar		Good luck, mister...
richard		Thank you for everything.
anwar		No sir, no... Allah be with you.
reporter		In this helicopter is Susan Jones, an American mother of two who was seriously injured in a terrorist attack. It appears fundamentalist organizations planned the attack...
ken		Mr. Jones, I'm Ken Clifford, Ambassador to the United States.
richard		Thank you...
ken		There are lots of reporters waiting. Is there anything you want to say to the press? A statement against terrorism?
richard		The last thing I'm worried about right now is the fucking press.
moroccan doctor		 We're going to have to operate immediately.
richard		Is she going to be ok?
moroccan doctor		It's probable. We're going to try to save her arm.   She's been bleeding internally, and there's been some clotting so there's a high risk of gangrene.
richard		 But she's going to be ok?
moroccan doctor		Yes, she's going to be ok.
richard		Amelia?
richard		How is everything?
richard		They're going to operate now... Amelia... take good care of the kids, and don't tell them anything...
richard		Put Mike on please.
richard		Hey sweetie, how are you?
richard		Oh really?
richard		Yeah, I'm ok. Everything's fine.
kenji		You don't have to apologize for anything.
kenji		Good night.
doorman		Officer... officer...
kenji		Good evening, I'm lieutenant Mamiya.
yasujiro		Good evening, how can I help you?
kenji		Sir, there was an incident and...
yasujiro		I don't remember the license, but I did have a rifle like the one you described.
kenji		Is it true that you gave it to a Mr. Hassan Ibrahim, who lives in southern Morocco?
yasujiro		Hassan Ibrahim?
kenji		He says he was your guide in a hunt.
yasujiro		Hassan? Of course. He was a very good guide and I gave him the rifle. Hassan is a very kind man. Did anything happen?
kenji		There was an attempted murder with that rifle, and the Moroccan police want to confirm it's not off the black market.
yasujiro		No, I gave it to him.  Is Hassan ok?
kenji		I don't know.
yasujiro		Am I legally involved?
kenji		Not for the moment. You may have to go testify for your friend.
yasujiro		Can I leave now?
kenji		Good night.
yasujiro		What balcony?
kenji		About how your wife killed herself by jumping off the balcony.
yasujiro		My wife never jumped off a balcony. She shot herself in the head. My daughter was the first to find her.
kenji		I'm very sorry sir, we won't bother you anymore. Good night.
kenji		Another whisky.
reporter		Susan Jones, the American woman wounded in an attack in Morocco ten days ago, left the hospital today, heading to the United States...
bartender		Do you want something to eat?    I could make you a sandwich.
kenji		No thank you.
****Dialogues from script :Bachelor_Party.txt****

helen		You think it's too early to call my mother?
charlie		I don't know.
helen		 Hello, Ma, did I wake you up? This is Helen.... Well, I'll be going to work, and I wanted to get ahold of you before I left. I called you last night. Where were you and Pop anyway? I kept calling you every half hour up till one o'clock.... Oh, yeah? Did you have a nice time? ...
helen's voice		Well, listen, Ma, I got something to tell you. I'm pregnant.... Yeah, pregnant.... Of course I'm sure. I've got the report back from the laboratory.... No, you wouldn't know him, Doctor Axelrod.... Second month. He says I can expect the baby in February.... Well, Grandma, act a little excited, will you? ... You bet I'm excited....
helen		 Do you need any of this or can I take them off the table?  Charlie appears in the bedroom doorway, dressed and washed now, a neat, clean young man in a white shirt and neatly knotted tie.
charlie		I'll clean that up in a minute.
helen		How late were you up last night?
charlie's voice		About two.
charlie		I'm taking five bucks from your drawer.
charlie		A guy in my office is getting married, and I got clipped four bucks for his wedding present.
helen		Who's getting married?
charlie		Arnold. I told you about him. The guy with the sick mother.
helen		Oh, yeah.
charlie		 The rest of the guys are giving him a bachelor party tonight.
helen		Do you want to go, Charlie?
charlie		I got class tonight.
helen		What have you got -- cost accounting?
charlie		Yes.
helen		I think you ought to take off a night. You ought to go, have a little fun for yourself. I think you need that. You go to work all day, you go to school all night. You can miss one night, Charlie.
charlie		No, these bachelor parties get kind of wild sometimes. The whole philosophy is: it's the groom's last night of freedom. So it gets kind of wild sometimes.
helen		That's a good philosophy to start a marriage with.
charlie		Well, a bunch of guys get together, they like to tear up the town a little.
helen		I think you oughta go, Charlie. I know you're upset about the baby.
charlie		I'm not upset about the baby.
helen		Come on, Charlie. I know how you feel. Listen, you don't have to pretend you're excited about the baby. We weren't exactly planning on a baby right now ...
charlie		I'm not upset about the baby.
helen		It's a shock. I had some bad days before I told you. I said: "Oh, boy, that's all we need. A baby." Then I said to myself: "If I'm having a baby, I'm having a baby. That's all there is to it." And I like the idea. We're going to have a family, Charlie. I like the idea.
charlie		Well, give me a couple of days to get used to the idea. I'll be all right.
helen		I know you will, Charlie. That's why I think you ought to go to this bachelor party tonight.
charlie		 I don't want to go to this bachelor party.
charlie		I'm sorry I yelled.
helen		Don't be silly.
charlie		I better get going. Kenny's probably waiting for me now. I'm sorry I yelled like that.
helen		What are you sorry about? Don't I yell at you all the time?
kenneth		You going to Arnold's bachelor party?
charlie		I don't think so, Kennie.
kenneth		What?
charlie		I got two classes tonight.
kenneth		Yeah, I was going to go, but I think I better not, because my kid, the young one, the girl, she's been acting up again lately. She's got some kind of allergy, the doctors don't know what.
charlie		These bachelor parties get kind of wild sometimes. Eddie Watkins is making all the arrangements. He's probably got us lined up with a bunch of chorus girls.
kenneth		Yeah, do you think so?
charlie		You know Eddie.
kenneth		Yeah, boy, he really lives it up, don't he? Did you see that blonde who picked him up for lunch last week? Boy, sometimes I wish I was a bachelor. Well, you know what I mean. I never seem to get out of the house any more, you know what I mean? About once a week, I go to the movies. We never even see the whole picture. My wife starts worrying about the kids. My youngest kid, the girl, she's got some kind of rash. We don't know what it is. I never seem to see anybody any more. Do you know how long it is since I've seen Willie Duff? I haven't seen Willie in about six months. My wife can't stand his wife. You ever seen her, Willie's wife?
charlie		No, I didn't know Willie too well.
kenneth		Boy, wait'll you have kids, boy. You'll never get out of the house.
charlie		Helen's pregnant now.
kenneth		No kidding.
charlie		Yeah.
kenneth		Oh, that's wonderful, Charlie, that's wonderful!  The two young husbands look down again at their hands and ride along silently. Kenneth sneaks a quick look up at the girl standing in front of him, and then lets his attention drift down the length of the car.
kenneth		Hey, there's a guy down there, trying to pick up a girl down there.
kenneth		Were you with us about eight years ago when I picked up that chick in front of the bus stop in Paterson, New Jersey?
charlie		When was this?
kenneth		Yeah, you were there. You were with that girl from Brooklyn. We just came from Palisades Amusement Park, and we were driving Frankie Klein's girl home, and the car broke down right in the middle of Route One.
charlie		 Oh, yeah.
kenneth		 And Frankie opened up the hood and the water cap blew right up in the air.
charlie		And the cop came over ...
kenneth		That's right, the cop. He thought Frankie shot off a gun....
kenneth		He was going to pull us all in. Oh, man!
charlie		Frankie, he was funny.
kenneth		Oh, that was a lot of fun, those days.
charlie		Yeah, they were.
kenneth		Hey, this guy's making out all right. She's giving him the eye now.  Charlie leans forward to see this progress.
kenneth		 Where are we now, Prince Street? I bet you he picks her up before we hit Chambers Street.
charlie		Boy, I'm bushed today. I was up till two o'clock last night on this thing here. I'm getting to be a nervous wreck. I snarled at Helen this morning. I think this whole night school business is getting me down.
kenneth		I don't see how you do it.
charlie		Neither do I. I thought I was through with it. The plan was for me to quit work and go to college full time and cram through in a year or so. But now we got this kid coming, and Helen's going to have to quit her job, and that sets me back where I started from. Another five years of this, summers included.
kenneth		I couldn't do it, man, I'll tell you that. I wish I could, but I couldn't.
charlie		Oh, what am I griping about? This is the life I picked out for myself. But it's a grind, boy, I tell you.  They sit silently again. The train hurtles along and then suddenly slows as it approaches a stop. There is a rustle of movement among the passengers in the subway car. A few people start edging toward the doors. The Girl reading the newspaper now folds her newspaper and stands almost directly in the Young Fellow's face. They regard each other.
young fellow		 Excuse me, can you tell me how to get to the Nassau Street exit?
girl		Well ... well, at the top of the stairs, you'll see all the signs.
young fellow		Are you getting off here?
girl		Yes.
young fellow		Well, I'll follow you then. That'll be easier, if you don't mind.
girl		No, not at all.
kenneth		Hiya, Walter.
charlie		Hiya, Walter.
kenneth		 Walter, what time do you come in in the mornings? You're making us all look lousy, you know that? I get the feeling sometimes, you stay here overnight.  Walter merely nods, doesn't bother to look up from the work. Kenneth finds a stick of gum in his drawer, unwraps it. Two more women, gray-haired and bespectacled, come into the office. There is an ad lib mumble of hellos in background. Charlie hangs up his jacket on the coat rack.
charlie		Arnold in yet?
walter		He starts his vacation today. He's getting married Sunday, you know.
walter		 Well, the doctor was over last night. Brought over the X rays; brought over the allergy tests. Brought over a bill for sixty-eight dollars.  I said to him: "Doctor, you're a young man, professional, highly educated, four years of college, two years of premedical training, several years of interning, of residency. If you're so smart, how can you charge me sixty-eight dollars? One thing they apparently didn't teach you in medical school. You can't get blood from a stone."
kenneth		So what's wrong with you, Walter?
walter		What's wrong? I have to go to Arizona, that's what's wrong. I have asthma. When I was a kid, they called it hay fever, and you carried a bag around your neck. Asafetida. Now, they call it asthma, and you have to go to Arizona. I said to him: "Doctor, you're a professional man, four years of college, premedical school, Bellevue, several diplomas. Answer me a question. Who's going to pay for Arizona?" I said to him: "Doctor," I said, "perhaps you have the illusion I am the Aga Khan. I have a bearing about me, perhaps, that misleads you to believe I have blood ties with the Whitneys and the Rockefellers. This isn't true." Arizona. Did you ever hear of such nonsense?
kenneth		How serious is it, Walter?
walter		Serious. Nothing serious. I have hay fever, I sneeze a couple of times. The idiot told my wife I have to go to Arizona, and she wouldn't leave me alone all night. She's already packing the bags. I said: "For heaven's sakes, you listen to doctors, we'll all be dead." My son, Harold, believe me, he's going to be a doctor. That's some racket, boy. Sixty-eight dollars.
walter		You better get to work. Hey, Charlie, that was the bell. I think Flaherty is here this morning. We'll all be fired today. I have a feeling.
walter		 You fellows going to Arnold's party tonight?
kenneth		 No, I'm not going, are you?
walter		No. Eddie already hooked me for four bucks for Arnold's present. This dinner is going to cost another couple of good dollars.
charlie		It looks like nobody's going to Arnold's bachelor party.
walter		You ain't going?
charlie		No, I'm not going.
walter		Eddie's going to be mad.
charlie		I told Eddie last week I couldn't make it. I've got school. Eddie's a bachelor. It's all right for him to go rooting around town, picking up girls.
walter		Yeah, you get married you give that kind of thing up.
kenneth		Yeah, Charlie says Eddie has a whole bunch of chorus girls lined up for us tonight.
walter		No kidding.
charlie		I didn't say that. I just said that if I knew Eddie, we'd probably wind up with some of his crazy girl friends.
kenneth		I don't know where he gets all these girls. He's a screwy looking jerk.
walter		Did you see that blonde who was up here looking for him last week?
kenneth		Yeah. He told me she was a television actress. I think I saw her once on "Studio One." She was in a coal mine with some stir-crazy coalminer who was trying to strangle her with a necktie.
walter		I'd like to strangle her with a necktie.
kenneth		Now, Walter, an old married man like you, with asthma and everything.
walter		I get real jealous of Eddie sometimes. He's as free as a bird. Did you see that convertible he's got?
kenneth		Yeah, he really banged it up I hear.
walter		You ought to see the old heap I've got. He walks out of here on payday, he can spend the whole works on having himself a good time. I walk out of here, and I got three kids and a wife, all of them with their palms out. I lost two bucks playing poker at my house last week. It was an economic catastrophe. My wife didn't sleep all night.
charlie		He's late again.
walter		He'll be twenty minutes late again. If Flaherty walked in now, he'd fire him. If that ever happened to me, I think I'd kill myself. What does Eddie care? So he scrambles around for another job. Flaherty told me last week I had too many days off. I told him I was sick in bed. What do you want me to do?
walter		Hi, Eddie, you're early today, only twenty minutes late, what happened?
eddie		 Flaherty come in yet?
kenneth		No.
eddie		Mary, give me an outside line....  Yeah, a military set and a wallet....
walter		Is that what we bought poor Arnold?
eddie		 On the military set: "To Arnold: Best wishes on your marriage from Alice, Charlie, Eddie, Evelyn, Jeanette with two t's, Kenneth, Lucy, Mary, Olga, Walter, and Flaherty." Now on the wallet ... Yeah, what? .... Yeah, that's right -- Flaherty. Now, on the wallet, the following inscription: "To my Best Friend Arnold from his Best Man Eddie." ... No, to my best friend Arnold. ... That's right. "From his best man Eddie" ... Now, can I come in at lunch and pick them up? ...  A young woman comes into the office, goes to Walter's desk and drops some papers before him.
walter		What's this, Jeanette?
girl		It's from finance, don't ask me.
eddie		 Mary, give me the Hotel Westmore.
charlie		 This isn't for me -- it's for you.
eddie		 Now who owes me on the presents? Charlie, you owe me?
charlie		I gave you four bucks yesterday....
kenneth		I owe you, Eddie. I'll pay you tomorrow, payday.
eddie		 Miss Frances Kelley, please. I think it's room 417....  The three heads around him look slowly up from their respective work, naked interest manifest on their faces.
eddie		 Hey, Evelyn, you owe me four bucks.
evelyn		 All right. I know.
eddie		 Funny, huh? ... Look, Frances. I have to go to work now. I'm calling you from the office. How about letting me make this up to you? I'll take you out to dinner Saturday night.... I can't make it tonight. The bachelor party's tonight.... All right, Saturday night.... It's a date.... S'help me.... I swear, right on time. Eight-thirty, okay? ... Okay, we'll have a ball. Goodbye, go back to sleep.
eddie		What did I just tell that girl, Saturday night?
kenneth		Yeah.
kenneth		Listen, Eddie, I don't think I can go tonight. My father-in-law's in from Akron, Ohio, and----
eddie		 Hello, who is this, Mrs. Stebbins? ... This is Eddie, Mrs. Stebbins. I wonder if I can talk to Muriel.... Could I speak to her? ... Thank you....  The three married men each look up slowly again, naked envy on each face.
eddie		 Muriel, baby, listen, sweetie, I can't make it Saturday night.... I'm all loused up with this wedding I'm supposed to be the best man at.... We have to rehearse the ceremony. You'd think they were getting married on television.... Yes, sweetie, why don't I call you Monday. Maybe, we'll work out something before you go back to California.... All right, sweetie, good-bye.  He hangs up, sits a moment, then finally removes the cigarette from his mouth, crushes it in his ash tray, and turns to the others.
eddie		Well, what do you say? I'm going to call Louie and make a reservation for a table for tonight. Who's coming and who isn't? Walter, you're coming, right? It won't cost you more than three-fifty for the whole meal. What do you say, Walter? You only live once.
walter		 That's right. You only live once.
eddie		Well, yes or no?
walter		All right, I'll come.
eddie		Kennie?
kenneth		Yeah, I'll get out of the house for a change.
eddie		How about you, Charlie?
charlie		I don't think so, Eddie.
kenneth		Ah, come on, Charlie, you got to bust loose every now and then. We'll have a couple of drinks.
eddie		 Mary, give me an outside line and don't give me no trouble....
walter		Come on, Charlie, it's a short life, believe me.  Move in for CLOSEUP of Charlie, frowning. Over this, Eddie's voice.
eddie's voice		Hello, hello, Louie? Is this Louie? ... Louie, this is Eddie Watkins. I'd like to reserve a table for four for tonight.... For four ...
charlie		Hey, Eddie ...
eddie's voice		What?
charlie		Count me in.
eddie		 Louie, make that five.... Five guys ... Yeah, a bachelor party ...
kenneth		 Three hundred pounds! Isn't she kind of fat? No, man, tall! Hey, waiter! Waiter!
eddie		Hey, Charlie ...
walter		 ... so we were stationed right outside Paris, about eight miles, a town called Chatou ...
eddie		... hey, Charlie ...
walter		 ... so the first night, a whole bunch of us swiped a jeep out of the motor court. We had a feller there who was a tech sergeant in the motor court. Oh, what a character he was! He used to get loaded every night on that vanilla extract.
eddie		Hey, Charlie ...
charlie		What do you want, Eddie?
eddie		Hey, Charlie, did I ever tell you about the time I was stationed at Buckley Field in Denver, and I picked up this girl in Lakeside Amusement Park?
walter		Hey, Eddie, listen to this story I'm telling Charlie. Hey, Arnold, I'm telling Charlie about the time me and that crazy tech sergeant from the motor court got loaded on vanilla extract and went to Paris ... Hey, Kenneth ...
kenneth		When do the Giants come back from their road trip, does anybody know?
eddie		Hey, let's give out the presents now.
walter		Hey, Kenneth, listen to this story. I was stationed outside of Paris, about eight miles ...
charlie		What?
kenneth		Oh, that Paris! I was there for two days! Clubs! You had to beat the women off with clubs! ...
charlie		 What ...? Oh, it's a bachelor party -- this guy's getting married.
eddie		Listen, I want to give the presents ...
walter		Well, let me tell you what happened ...
eddie		Hey, you know what was a great town for women, Hamburg!
kenneth		Hamburg! Clubs! Clubs! You had to beat them off with clubs! Hey, waiter -- who's our waiter?
charlie		Hey, Arnold, enjoying yourself?
eddie		The first night I was in Hamburg, two Frauleins come walking right in the barracks. So I said to the lieutenant ...
walter		 The best fighting outfit in the whole fighting army was the fighting Hundred and Fourth Infantry Division, General Terry Allen commanding!
eddie		 Well, now that we got that settled....
charlie		I'm with you, Walter.
arnold		We believe you, Walter.
eddie		I'd like to make a little speech to our guest of honor and mutual friend, Arnold Craig. Arnold, a bunch of us down the office, the girls too, all chipped in, and we got you a couple of small gifts....
walter		 These are the gag gifts.
eddie		Let's see, what's this one? Oh, yeah. Arnold, we figured Louise might be very sleepy on your wedding night, so we thought you might want something to keep you warm.
walter		What is it? What is it?
walter		It's a hot-water bottle!
kenneth		Okay, Walter, okay.
walter		Hey, did you see that? Hey, he bought him a hot-water bottle for his wedding night. Hey, that's funny ...
charlie		Hey, Eddie, you should have bought him an ice pack for after tonight.
eddie		 Walter, take it easy.... Now, this one, Arnold, this one is something to keep you busy on cold winter nights.
walter		 This ought to be good.
eddie		Look at Walter.
walter		Hey, these are funny. Who bought these? You buy these, Eddie? These are funny. You got a good sense of humor.
walter		Hey, did you guys see that? Hey, did you guys see that?
charlie		Come on, Walter, sit down.
walter		Eddie got a good sense of humor, you know?
kenneth		 Boy, old Walter is crocked.
arnold		 Listen, I want to thank you. Really. I really want to thank you fellows.
eddie		We haven't got to the serious presents yet, Arnold.  A hush falls over the assembled guests. Arnold composes his face into a solemn expression and looks down at the cluttered table.
eddie		 Well, in all seriousness, Arnold, seriously, I don't know why you picked me to be your best man, but I am deeply honored. I guess it's because we're both Dodger fans, and I'm going to miss you at next Tuesday's night game when the Pittsburgh Pirates invade Ebbets Field. We always had a lot of fun together, and, seriously, Arnold, in all seriousness, good luck on your wedding, but see if you can't get out of the house occasionally, see a night game or even a Sunday doubleheader with your old buddy, Eddie.
eddie		 Well, anyway, in all seriousness, here are a couple of presents from all of us in the office and good luck.  Arnold takes the presents, stands, head bowed. Eddie sits and all faces turn to Arnold.
arnold		Well, I just want to thank you fellows. I don't know what to say. I just want to thank you.
kenneth		Open the presents, Arnold.
arnold		I will. I just want to say, Eddie, that when the Pirates invade Ebbets Field next Tuesday night, I'm going to be sitting right there in Section 37 there right with you.
eddie		You'll be on your honeymoon next Tuesday, Arnold.  This interesting information gives Arnold pause.
arnold		Gee, that's right.
charlie		 Arnold, you're getting married Sunday, did you forget?
walter		Look at him blush.
arnold		 No, I didn't forget. It's just that ... Gee, that's right. Sunday. What's today, Thursday?  KENNETH and EDDIE All day!
arnold		Boy, it's here, isn't it? I guess I've been running around so much the last couple of weeks, I guess the wedding snuck up on me.
kenneth		I think Arnold's having a little buck fever. Does anyone know what our waiter looks like?
eddie		 You know who didn't want to chip in for Arnold's presents? ...
charlie		Arnold'll be all right. Have a drink, Arnold.
walter		I had my basic training in Camp Croft, South Carolina, near Spartanburg.
eddie		I was at Maxwell Field, what a desert.
charlie		Walter, what ever happened when you and that tech sergeant from the motor pool got loaded on vanilla extract?
walter		What tech sergeant?
charlie		Walter, you're crocked.  Open up the presents -- see what you got.
kenneth		Hey, are you our waiter? Bring us some ice. I got him -- I got our waiter!
arnold		It was sure nice of you fellows.
eddie		Hey, man, we're having a ball!
arnold		De-Witt C-l-i-n-t-o-n Boom! Clinton! Oh, Cli-inton! Ever to theeeee!
arnold		 Fairest of high schools ...
eddie		How did he ever get on this alma mater kick?
arnold		 ... Give her three times three Oh, fellows ... Rah! Rah! Rah!
arnold		Long may we cherish thee Faithful we'll be. Clinton, oh, Clinton For you and me ... Da-da-da-da-da ... Crash through that line of blue And send the backs around the end.
eddie		There he goes with those fullbacks again.
arnold		Rah! Rah! Rah!
kenneth		Where we going? Eddie's place to see movies?
arnold		What movies?
eddie		Boy, just wait till you see these movies! Hey, Charlie, hey Charlie ...
charlie		What?
eddie		 Who's your beautiful friend, Charlie?
charlie		 Excuse me. My friend down there wants to know who you are.
the existentialist		 Where are you all from, out-of-town?
charlie		Indiana.  Isn't that right, fellers? We're from Indiana, right?
eddie		Indiana! Indiana, man!  Kenneth and Arnold, to whom this incident is already unbearably funny, have turned away and are clutching their sides, trying to suppress a fit of giggles.
charlie		 We're from the Hoosier State, ma'am...
walter		Terre Haute! We're from Terre Haute!
charlie		 We're from Terre Haute, and we've come to the big city looking for a good time, and we just don't know what to do with ourselves, ma'am.
eddie		 Look at that Charlie operate.
the existentialist		Must be a convention in town.
charlie		We've just come off the ranch there, honey, and we're just raring. Is that right, men? Are we raring?
eddie		We're raring, boy, we're raring!
kenneth		 Hey, Charlie, cut it out, will you?
charlie		 We're down here in Greenwich Village looking for some wild bohemians. Do you happen to know any wild bohemians?
the existentialist		All right, fellows, enough's enough, huh?
charlie		 I'm something of a poet myself, ma'am. Many's the long night in the bunkhouse where I sat by myself and wrote by the flickering light of a kerosene lamp. Could I read you some of my poems, ma'am? I know they ain't much, but they're from the heart, ma'am.  The Existentialist pauses in her hurried walk down Tenth Street to examine Charlie with some interest.
the existentialist		You have a sense of humor, don't you?
eddie		 You're going great, man, don't stop now.  The Existentialist goes up the two little steps to the front door of the house and rings the bell.
eddie		 Where are you going, honey?  The Existentialist waits composed and patient for someone to answer her ring. Charlie has wandered back to Arnold and Kenneth, and the three of them are now suffused with laughter. Kenneth has been laughing so much, tears are coming out of his eyes. He walks around in little circles clutching his sides. Several passersby hurry by, noting the strange little group on the sidewalk.
eddie		 What's going on in there, honey?
the existentialist		 There's a party going on. I'm not sure I'm invited myself, so I can't really invite you.
eddie		Sure you can.
the hostess		How nice to see you, darling. Who are your friends?
the existentialist		I haven't the vaguest idea. I was ambushed crossing Greenwich Avenue by a tribe of the Terre Haute Kiwanis.
the hostess		 Go away, you men. Go back to the Biltmore Hotel and put on your red caps.
eddie		I always thought you city people were more hospitable to us poor farm boys.
charlie		 I'm sorry, miss. A friend of ours is getting married here, and we're just horsing around.
the existentialist		Why don't you come back after you get rid of your friends.
eddie		He'll be back!
eddie		 Man, she likes you, man!
the hostess		Now, you boys go away.
eddie		Well, what do you say, men, are we going to this party, or aren't we?
charlie		 Come on, Eddie. I thought you had some movies you want to show us.
eddie		What do you want to see movies for? You got the real thing right here.
charlie		 Eddie, we're married men here.
eddie		Come on, let's crash this party. I've been to these Greenwich Village parties. Man, they're wild.
kenneth		Come on, Eddie, let's go up to your place, see these movies.
eddie		 Man, you were going strong with that girl. You could have scored. She's just waiting for you. Go in after her.
kenneth		Come on, Eddie. Let's go see the movies.
eddie		 All right, I live about three blocks down. You guys want to see movies, all right, let's go see movies.
arnold		... we're moving in with her mother and father. I don't know if that's such a good idea. What do you think? We haven't got an apartment yet, and we figure we'll live a year with her folks, save on the rent, see?  Kenneth comes back from the kitchen with three open bottles of beer.
kenneth		Anybody want a bottle of beer?
arnold		 She's a widow, and that bothers me a little. I don't know why. She's two years older than me. I don't know if you know that. Her husband got killed in Korea. She's a cousin of mine, you know.
kenneth		 Who wants a bottle of beer?
charlie		I'll take a bottle.
walter		Yeah, give me one.
arnold		A third cousin, something like that. It's not good for cousins to marry, is it? What do you think of her? I know she's not terribly pretty, but I mean ...
eddie		 Arnold, leave me alone a minute, will you?
arnold		Sure.  Well, I'm getting married Sunday.
kenneth		Having fun, Walter?
walter		Fun. A bunch of grown men sitting around waiting to look at college boy pictures.
arnold		I swear, I never thought two months ago I was ever going to get married. I still don't know how it happened....
eddie		Hey, somebody turn off the lights.  Walter is promptly up to turn off the lights.
charlie		Hey, you know, you've got a nice place here.  The room is abruptly flooded in darkness. A beam of light shoots out from the projector. It seems pointed at the window. Arnold stands up directly in the shaft of light.
arnold		I was just taking her out. I didn't know it was so serious.
eddie		Arnold, get out of the way, will you?
arnold		Oh, sure.
arnold		... We're sitting in the car, so she says: "Well, Arnold, we've been going together six months now. I think it's time we decided whether we were being serious."
walter		Hey, Eddie, you got it on the window.
arnold		I didn't know it was so serious. I didn't even know we were going together. I just took her out every now and then.
charlie		Arnold, you're funny.
eddie		Turn on the lights again, will you, Walter.
walter		What's the matter?
eddie		I forgot to loop it over this loop thing.
charlie		Oh, for crying out loud.
arnold		 I can't even remember what she looks like! I just saw her this afternoon!
kenneth		Arnold, have a bottle of beer. It's not so terrible.
arnold		Boy, I tell you. It's for the rest of your life when you get married. This is a big decision to make.
walter		Does anybody seriously want to see these movies?  Eddie is furiously winding and unwinding spools. CAMERA HAS DOLLIED AROUND so that we are looking back up the living room toward the projector and the men.
arnold		I could be making a serious mistake.
eddie		Arnold, you're in the way again. Come on now. All right, put off the lights.
kenneth		Here we go.
eddie		Hey, Arnold, if this is the one I think it is, there's one part here I want you to see.
walter		 This is for kids.
charlie		Says he -- putting on his glasses.
kenneth		"The Baseball Game." That's a nice title, don't you think?
eddie		This is the one, Arnold. There's a guy in here who looks just like Arnold.
kenneth		Hey, she's not bad. Usually, the girls in these things look like dinosaurs.
walter		 A bunch of grown men ...
eddie		I got these pictures off my dentist. I don't know where be got them. There you are, Arnold, that's you.
eddie		Doesn't that look like Arnold?
kenneth		Who's looking at the guy?
charlie		Arnold, you've got a great career ahead of you.
kenneth		That girl looks like the girl Charlie picked up just before.
eddie		Probably is.
walter		That fellow there is not a bad actor.
charlie		Actor. You could play that part pretty easy yourself.
kenneth		I think the Daily News gave this one four stars.
eddie		I'd like to see this in Three-D.
walter		Well, I'll just watch one of them. Then, I think I'll just go home.
helen		Hiya, Julie. I was beginning to think you weren't coming.
julie		 I was at my mother's house. Did they call you? They said they were going to call you.
helen		Yeah, your mother was very sweet.
julie		You should have seen my father. I said, "Pa, you have another grandchild coming." So he said, "Who?" So I said, "Charlie." So he said, "That little Helen?" So I said, "If it isn't that little Helen, Charlie better leave town." So out came the beer. Well, they've been after Charlie to have a baby for a long time now. I said, "Pa, leave him alone. Let him get established before he saddles himself with a baby." Anyway, I want you to know joy reigns supreme in your in-laws' house.  How's Charlie taking it?
helen		 Listen, let me make you a cup of tea or something.
julie		No, no, I've been drinking beer for the last two hours, celebrating your baby.
helen		Soda, anything like that?
julie		No, honey, you go on with your wash. Is that what you're doing?  When I had my first baby, Mike was ashamed to be seen on the streets with me. Well, listen, he was interning at the time. We needed a baby like a hole in the head. That's why he's a general practitioner now, because of that baby. He was studying to be a surgeon. He absolutely refused to admit I was pregnant. Even in my ninth month, and I was as big as a house. He used to walk ten paces in front of me in the street like he didn't know who that woman with the belly was. Where is Charlie anyway?
helen		I told you he--
julie		Oh, yeah. I wouldn't let my Mike go on a bachelor party.
helen		 What are they going to do, get a little drunk?
julie		Are you kidding? What do you think these bachelor parties are for, bachelors? This is for the married men. It's a good excuse to get drunk and find some girls.
helen		Can you picture Charlie getting drunk and picking up a girl? Charlie's old sobersides. You should have seen what I went through to get him to make a pass at me. He's so sweet. Nobody knows how really sweet he is, he's so quiet all the time. My brother died in September, he used to stay up with me till three, four o'clock every night. I used to cry all night, and he used to sit on the bed and talk with me. I used to look at him talking there, and I used to think: "What would I do without this sweet man here? I'd go crazy." You know, you like to be a little cynical sometimes, Julie.
julie		Wait'll you've been married eleven years.
helen		You like to talk about all the affairs everybody's husband is having. Do you know actually one woman whose husband is actually playing around?
julie		Wait'll you've been married eleven years.
julie		 Wait'll Charlie gets to be forty-two. My Mike's having an affair right now with one of his patients right now. We don't talk about it -- don't you, either, not even to Charlie. But Mike knows I know about it. I even know the patient. A married woman with a hyperthyroid problem. My Mike's a good doctor with a pretty good practice. The kids are crazy about him. But every now and then he has to go out and get involved with a woman.  She looks down at her hands in her lap.
julie		Listen, I will take a cup of tea if you've got one.  She stands, opens the pantry, looks around among the cans and packages for a box of tea bags.
helen		 You're kidding, aren't you?
julie		 Would I kid about something like that?
julie		I don't know why I told you. Don't tell anybody, not even Charlie. I don't want the family to know. But this woman isn't the first one. I know that much. About three years ago, the doorbell rings. I open the door. There's a man there. He says: "Tell your husband to stay away from my sister." How would you like to open the door and have somebody say that to you? I cried for two weeks. I don't know what to do about it, Helen. Should I bring it out in the open with Mike or should I just keep my mouth shut like the other time? Because he's not going to leave me. Even if he doesn't care about me, he has his kids to think about. We married too young. That was our big mistake. We married too young.  Her face, her whole body suddenly tightens to forestall any possibility of breaking into tears, and she sits down abruptly on the kitchen stool, her eyes clenched tight and her face rigidly impassive. Helen remains nervously silent.
julie		 It hurts! Even after eleven years, it hurts!
helen		Are you all right, Julie?
julie		 I'm all right. I'm all right.
walter		Is that the last one?
eddie		Yeah.
walter		Ah, you've seen one, you've seen them all.
kenneth		Yeah, they're all alike.
charlie		I don't know -- I think the first one was all right.
walter		Yeah, I was so bored by the rest of them. I nearly fell asleep during the last one.
kenneth		You in the habit of sleeping with your eyes open?  We look down on the room now, at all five of the men, Eddie rewinding the last reel, the little motor of the projector humming. The others loll about, their legs dangling over the armrests of the soft chairs and sofas. There is a heavy, dense mood that no one seems willing to break.
charlie		What time's it about, anybody know?
arnold		 I got a quarter to nine.
eddie		No, it's later than that, about a quarter after.  Again the silence falls upon the five men. Only the humming little motor interrupts the thick silence. Nobody moves.
walter		 Ah, you see one, you've seen them all.
walter		 So that's the last one you've got to show us, Eddie?
eddie		Yeah. You want to run them backwards?
kenneth		I wonder where they get the girls to make these movies?
walter		Might as well go home, I guess.
kenneth		Yeah.
walter		 Life is short.
eddie		 You guys feel like going down to have a drink for Arnold?
walter		Yeah! What do you say? One last drink for Arnold!
charlie		Okay with me.
kenneth		 You can say what you want to about these pictures -- they're really pretty bad -- but they get you.
arnold		Don't you think we ought to clean up the place?
eddie		No, I got a woman comes in.
walter		 Well, what do you say, huh? Let's go! One last drink!  Ad libs on exit.
julie		... He's a boy, my Mike. Till the day he dies, he'll never be more than fifteen. Perpetual adolescence, that's the curse of the professional man. He spends his whole youth trying to be a doctor, a lawyer, an accountant. Then he spends the rest of his life looking for the fun he should have had when he was a boy.
helen		Oh, I know. Charlie and I hardly even see each other.
julie		It's very hard on the wife, Helen. These are the years when you should be building your marriage. Instead, you grow away from each other. I've seen it happen with my friends. In the end, they have nice homes in New Rochelle, and a maid, and their maids are happier than they are. But sometimes it does work. It can be done, Helen. Encourage Charlie to stay with his school because...
helen		Oh, I will, Julie ...
julie		... he's an ambitious boy ...
helen		... oh, it's not just he's ambitious ...
julie		... and if he doesn't fulfill himself, he'll resent you and your baby the rest of his life.
helen		Oh, I don't want him to quit. He loves accounting, Julie. I see him sometimes, sitting over his homework. He's got his ledgers out, and he's adding up columns of figures as long as his arm. And he's chuckling. You'd think he was reading the comics. He has a book there, Business Law. How he can read it I don't know. But I'll be watching television or something, and he'll come over, and he'll start telling me about some fine legal point. I don't know what he's talking about, but it's enough for me to see how excited it makes him. He loves it, Julie. You can't take something like that away from him. It's just -- it's just I feel we're not really close any more. I mean, he comes home from school, lots of times I'm asleep already. And, when I do see him, he seems all involved with himself. He looks at me sometimes as if I were a stranger to him, and I feel sometimes I am. I'm afraid of that, Julie.
julie		Then get rid of the baby.
julie		If I had it to do again, believe me, that's what I would do.
helen		 You don't mean that, Julie.
julie		Yes, I do. My children are the only things in my life now, but I would rather have a husband.
helen		I wouldn't even think about it.
julie		That's what I said, too.
helen		Let's not even think about it. If I even mentioned it, he'd -- he'd hit me, I think.
julie		All right.
helen		I want this baby, Julie. I've wanted this baby for a long time. It's the only thing I've ever asked of Charlie. If I mentioned that to him -- I don't know what he'd do.  Again, they sink into silence. Then in the thick silence, the telephone rings. The two young women are so deep within their thoughts that neither of them moves. It rings again, and Helen slides off the couch and goes to the phone. It rings again. She picks it up.
helen		 Hello.... Hello, Charlie, where are you calling from? ... You sound like you're having a nice time.... Oh, you're having a ball, huh? ... Well, what time do you think you'll be coming home?
charlie		 Well, that's what I wanted to call you about, honey. I think a couple of the guys are cutting out now. I think Kennie's going home. But I was wondering if you wanted me home for any special reason.
helen		 Just a minute, Charlie....
helen		 Excuse me a minute, Julie. It's Charlie....  She goes into the kitchen. A little embarrassed, she closes the kitchen door.
helen		 Charlie, there's no girls at this party, are there? ... I'm not checking up on you, Charlie. I just miss you, that's all.... All right, Charlie, please, I don't want to argue with you. Julie's in the living room. ... All right, have a good time, stay out as long as you want.... All right, Charlie, good- bye.
charlie		The party breaking up?
kenneth		 I don't know. I'm going home. You going home?
charlie		Yeah, I think so.
charlie		 You love your wife, Kennie?
charlie		I don't feel like going home. Are you going? Hang around, Kennie. It's only about nine thirty, ten.
kenneth		It's after ten. It's about ten after ten.
kenneth		The party's getting a little wild in there anyway. Eddie and Walter got poor Arnold nailed in there, they're trying to talk him into getting a girl. This party's going to wind up in a joint, let me tell you. This is a good time to blow.
charlie		 Yeah.... I should have gone to class tonight. I'm paying twenty bucks a credit. The least I can do is go to class.
charlie		I take one night off, I can't even enjoy myself. Did you know Eddie went back to Europe?
kenneth		No, I didn't know that.
charlie		He was telling me he lived in Paris for three months. I'd like to do that!  He ambles around the men's room, studying himself with unseeing eyes in the little mirror, poking the trash can into which Kenneth is now dropping his wadded paper towel. He suddenly turns to Kenneth, stares at him. Kenneth looks at him in mirror.
kenneth		What's the matter?
charlie		I'm going to quit. What am I killing myself for?
kenneth		Quit what?
charlie		Quit night school. Tonight was the first laughs I've had in years. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun. Look what I'm missing. I'm making a pretty good living. I can support a wife and baby on what I make. I'm going to quit! I mean it. I'm going to quit. Boy, what a time to have a baby.
kenneth		You don't have to quit school because you're having a baby, Charlie. There are lots of guys go to night school with two, three kids.
charlie		You ought to meet some of these guys. They're just grinding their lives away. It's an obsession with some of these guys. I mean, what's the point? So I'll go five more years to night school. So I'll get my degree. So I'll get a job as a junior accountant for three years at seventy-five bucks a week. I'm making better than that now. And then it just starts. The CPA exams. By the time I'm fifty, I can start living. At this point, I get a heart attack and an ulcer, and they bury me in the ground, and they say: "That was Charlie Samson, the man who didn't see a movie in fifty years." Why go through all that? I'll quit. I feel so mad right now, you better keep an eye on me, Kennie, because I'm going to wind up punching somebody.  The door opens. Man enters to clean a spot off his tie.
kenneth		Come on, let's go home.
charlie		What do I want to go home for?
kenneth		You're in a lousy mood.
kenneth		 Charlie, go home. I can see you're going to get fried tonight and wind up picking up a tramp and you're going to wake up in the morning feeling like two-bits.
charlie		It'd be a profit.
kenneth		Charlie, about five years ago, I went without a job for seven months. Alice was carrying our first baby. We were living on money I borrowed from my brother. I don't know if you remember me in those days, but it was rough. I used to go out every night, put a load on, and make a pass at any girl who looked at me. And I mean any. Big, tall, short, fat, anything. Well, one night I picked up some tomato somewheres, and we were sitting in a bar or somewheres, and I kept calling her Alice all night. So she says to me: "My name ain't Alice. Who's Alice?" So I said: "Alice is my wife," and I got up and I went home.
charlie		What does that mean?
kenneth		I don't know. I had a point when I started telling that story.
charlie		I'm not looking for another woman.
kenneth		Yes, you are, Charlie. You may not know it, but you are. So go on home, Charlie, before you get any drunker than you are. Charlie, you start messing with other women, something goes. It'll kill your marriage. It'll kill your wife. It'll just kill her. What my wife went through -- well, I don't even want to remember it. It's never the same with your wife again, Charlie.
charlie		I'm not looking for any woman.
kenneth		I think what I was trying to say was you stick with your night school. Some guys have to make peace with themselves that they're never going to amount to too much. A guy like me. Once I made that peace with myself, I found out it doesn't really matter what you amount to. I got a nice wife and two children I complain about all the time, but if anything ever happened to either one of them, I think I'd die. But you don't have to make that kind of peace, and you'd be crazy to settle for less than what you want. You want something, Charlie. I think that's wonderful.  You're a little drunk now, and you're fed up to the teeth. Everybody gets fed up, Charlie. You stick with it. You're going to be all right.
charlie		 You're a nice guy, Kennie.
kenneth		Sure. You're a nice guy too.
young man		Watch it -- will you, Mac?
charlie		Wait a minute.... What are you, a wise guy?  He is all set to bust the Young Man one in the nose, but Kenneth takes him by the arm.
kenneth		Come on, Charlie, let's go home.  Charlie allows himself to be led to the door.
charlie		I'm just about drunk enough right now to bust somebody right in the nose.
eddie		 ... Come on, will you? Look Walter, it's just the shank of the evening! What's so special in your home? You got a floor show every night? Who are you married to, Jayne Mansfield? Come on, it's not even half past ten!
kenneth		 We got to get up tomorrow, go to work, Eddie.
eddie		We're just starting! We got to get Arnold a girl yet!
arnold		Eddie, please ...
eddie		That's the whole point to a bachelor party! You got to get the guy a girl!
arnold		Look, fellows, it's been a nice clean party ...
kenneth		Well, Arnold, since I'm not going to see you again before the wedding, congratulations and best wishes in the coming future to both you and the bride.
arnold		Thanks a lot, Kennie....
eddie		You're not going, are you, Charlie? We're just starting! We got to get Arnold a girl yet!
arnold		 I want to thank you for the presents, Kennie....
charlie		...No, I'll stick around another hour or so....
eddie		... That's my boy....
arnold		 ... Honestly, I never expected any presents....
kenneth		 ... Aren't you coming home? ...
charlie		... What for? Sit around talking to my sister Julie? ...
arnold		 ... I want to thank all you fellows ...
eddie		All right, stop thanking them, Arnold. They just gave you a party, they didn't elect you President.
arnold		... This has been one of the nicest nights of my life....
charlie		Let's go someplace ... let's go to a nightclub.
eddie		That's great with me.
charlie		Come on, Ken.
arnold		Thanks a lot.
kenneth		... Well, listen, fellows, I'm cutting out.... Good night, Walter, Eddie.  ... You coming, Charlie? ...
charlie		... No, I'll kill another hour.... Come on, Kennie....
kenneth		No, you go ahead. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie.
charlie		Okay, I'll see you.
arnold		So what do you think of my girl, Eddie? You met her. Be honest with me. Tell me the truth. I had the feeling you didn't like her.
eddie		Come on, come on, Arnold. What do you want from me.  Arnold turns to Charlie.
arnold		Listen, Charlie, I'd like to ask you a little advice. I mean, you're a married man. This girl, I'm supposed to marry, she's all right, but I'm not really attracted to her, you know what I mean? That's important, isn't it? I kissed her a couple of times, but I ... I don't know why I'm getting married, Charlie.
charlie		What did you say, Arnold?
arnold		I said, I don't know why I'm getting married. I did pretty good for thirty-two years without getting married. I get along fine at home. My mother's a good cook. I have a nice life. What do I want to break it all up for?
charlie		Well, Arnold, everybody feels that way before they get married.
arnold		Yeah? Did I ever show you a picture of my girl?
charlie		No, you didn't, Arnold.
arnold		Do you want to see a picture?
charlie		Sure.
arnold		I want you to give me your honest impression, Charlie. She isn't much, is she?
charlie		I can't see much in this light, but she looks like a nice pretty girl.
arnold		Well, I wouldn't say that. We were matched up, you know. The families kind of agreed on it. I was brought over to her by my mother and father. That's how I met her. She's some kind of tenth cousin. She's all right. She's quiet. I kissed her a couple of times. She just sat there and I kissed her. I think she expected more. She even asked me that. She said to me: "Are you afraid of me?" I really don't go out with women much. You know. Don't tell nobody this, Charlie, but you aren't going to believe this, but I never ... I mean, you wouldn't believe that a guy of my age, I never ... Don't tell anybody I ever told you this, but I never-- I mean, Charlie, she's a widow. She's been married already -- she's going to expect a lot -- and I never ---- What do you think I ought to do?
charlie		What do you mean, Arnold?
arnold		I mean, you think I ought to marry her?
charlie		Well, Arnold, even if I knew the girl, I wouldn't answer that question. I may not like her, but she may be fine for you.
arnold		Because I'm thinking of calling the whole thing off.
charlie		It's kind of late for that, isn't it?
arnold		I'm scared stiff, Charlie.
charlie		What are you scared about?
arnold		I'm not much of a talker, and she's one of those quiet ones. What are you supposed to do with your wife? I mean, most of the time.
charlie		 Most of the time, Arnold, you don't even see her. You're away working. You come home, she fixes you supper. Then one of you washes the dishes. Then if you're not tired, you can go to the movies or visit somebody. Or you watch teevee.
arnold		I do that now with my mother.  This gives Charlie pause.
charlie		 I don't know what there is to marriage. I suppose it's to have kids.
arnold		So what do you think I ought to do? You think I ought to go through with this marriage?
charlie		 Arnold, I can't answer that!  He stands abruptly.  DISSOLVE TO:
eddie		I think we've got one for you, Arnold.
arnold		One what?
arnold		Ah, come on, Eddie.
eddie		She ain't bad.
charlie		 What's the matter?
eddie		We've got a live one.
arnold		 Come on, let's go.
eddie		Arnold, for Pete's sake.
charlie		Ah, leave him alone! He doesn't want to.
eddie		Come on. We've been walking around all night here -- are you a man, or ain't you?  Arnold frowns.
arnold		All right, all right.
the woman		 I don't know who you fellows think I am, but you fellows have the wrong idea about me.
eddie		Yeah, I know. Arnold, see that bar down the corner. That's where we'll be.
arnold		She says we have the wrong idea.
charlie		Ah, leave him alone.  THE WOMAN You fellows are working under a misconception.  Eddie and Walter have already started down the street to the bar.
eddie		We'll be in the bar, Arnold.
charlie		You all right, Arnold?
arnold		Yeah, I'm all right, it's just ...
arnold		You want to come with me, Charlie?
charlie		No, Arnold.
charlie		You want me to? All right. I'll go up with you.
eddie		 Where you going, Charlie?
charlie		I'll go up with him. Moral support.
eddie		What the---- we'll all go with you.
eddie		 We'll be down at the bar.
charlie		Hey, Arnold, you don't have to go through with this.
arnold		I think I should.
charlie		I'll wait out here for you, okay?
the woman		Listen, I don't want you to think I don't have a job. I got a job. I work.
the woman		What's the matter?
the woman		Are you afraid of me?
the woman		 What's the matter? Hey. Hey, you. Hey, you, what's the matter?
charlie		Let's go.  What's the trouble?
the woman		I don't know. Ask him. What's the matter? Hey, you. You, what's the matter?
charlie		Go back inside.... All right, all right.
the woman		How about that, huh?
charlie		What happened, Arnold?
arnold		I don't know. I'm just scared.
charlie		Yeah, I don't blame you, I'd be scared too like this. I don't know why we dragged you up here in the first place. It's a barbaric custom. Come on.
arnold		Don't tell Eddie.
charlie		No I won't, Arnold.
arnold		Why don't we just sit here for ten minutes or so?  Charlie frowns, then shrugs.
charlie		All right, Arnold.
arnold		Don't ever tell anybody.
charlie		It's nothing to be ashamed of.
arnold		Please, Charlie.
charlie		I won't tell anybody.
man's voice		Anything wrong down there?
charlie		 No. No. Nothing wrong.
eddie		Hey Walter -- you know what we ought to do, don't you? We ought to go to that party. Remember that girl Charlie picked up on Tenth Street?
walter		I'm going to die, do you know that?
eddie		Not tonight, Walter. Tonight you're going to live. Ah, these things are fixed.  I'm down to my last buck. Got any money on you?  He turns as the door to the bar opens and Charlie and Arnold come in.
eddie		 Hey, Charlie, let's go to this party. It's only twelve o'clock. Oh, these parties are mad, man. All the women wear pajamas, and all the men wear beards. Everybody sits on the floor. Arnold, you got any money? I spent my last buck on those drinks. How about you, Charlie?
arnold		 I got a little over a buck.
eddie		What are we, all out? So let's go to this party then.  Hey, Charlie, come on.
charlie		 Cut it out.
eddie		You can have that girl you picked up on Tenth Street. Come on.... All right, you married men want to be so married that's all right with me. But I'd like to see some women tonight.  Come on.
charlie		Lay off.
eddie		I'd like to see some women tonight, you know. Do you mind?
charlie		Cut it out, Eddie. You keep punching me, I swear I'm going to belt you one.
eddie		What's the matter with you?
arnold		All right, all right, fellows.
eddie		Look, don't get so tough with me, Charlie.
arnold		All right, all right, come on.
charlie		 I don't want to see any other women!
eddie		 All right! Go on home! Who's holding you?! You want to call it a night? Because I'm tired of grousing from one bar to another. You guys go home, and I'll go about my merry way. All right? And don't get so tough with me.
charlie		Well, don't poke me.
arnold		 Come on, let's go ... gee ...
charlie		 You mess around with other women, it kills your wife and it kills your marriage.
eddie		All right, you guys go home, and I'll go on my merry way.  Hey, you guys, you guys want to go to a nutty night club, look at the nuts? There's a nutty night club over on Second Avenue. You know what we can do? Charlie, you live in Stuyvesant Town, don't you?
charlie		Yeah.
eddie		You know what we can do? We'll take the crosstown. We'll go over to Charlie's house, he'll get some money, and we'll go to this nutty night club. It's right down on Second Avenue. You got any money home, Charlie?
charlie		What do you say, Arnold? You want to go?  Arnold shrugs. Eddie has started for the door already. Charlie wearily gets off his stool, starts to follow Eddie out. Walter takes his arm.
eddie		Charlie, get Walter.
charlie		Come on, Walter....
walter		I'm going to die, you know what I mean?  The sad little party files wearily out of the bar, Arnold pausing at the bar to pay for the drinks.
walter		 So what'll I do? I mean, he says, I'm going to die. I mean, the man's a specialist. He says: "Go to Arizona, go to Colorado," he says. "You got to get out of New York or you're going to die." He tells my wife, the stupid idiot. My wife cried all night. I'm going to die, you know that? You understand that? I'm going to die? You know what an asthma attack is like? Your heart starts beating like a drum! I passed out the last time!
charlie		 Walter, why don't you just quit the job and pack your bags and get out of here?
walter		 I can't quit. Don't you understand? You don't understand. I can't quit! I got a fourteen-year-old girl, I don't know what time she comes in at night any more. She's so wild, these kids. I got a nineteen-year-old boy in college; he's going to be a doctor if I have to die. He's not going to quit school. You hear me! I worked hard to put that kid in school! I don't care if I die! I don't care! What am I going to do in Arizona? Who wants me? Who's going to give me a job? What kind of a job am I going to get? I'm forty-eight years old. They don't want no forty-eight-year-old bookkeeper. They got machines from IBM. You ever been up on the ninth floor? You ever see all those IBM machines? What am I going to do out in Arizona? You look in the Help Wanted lately? You see any jobs listed for Bookkeeper, Male? What are you talking about? Do you know what you're talking about?
charlie		Easy, Walter.
walter		 What is it all about? Will you tell me?  The train is slowing up for a station now.
walter		Life is nothing! It's a gag! It's a joke! It's a mortgage! It's a bankrupt! It's a lot of noise over nothing! Sound and fury! Isn't that what the man said? What do you think, I never read a book? I read a book! Don't worry! I was a bright kid! Everybody thought I was going to be the first Catholic to be President! Where did it all go?!  He turns to look at the station they are edging into, the yellow lights, the dark shadows, the few blurred faces. His face is wet with the tiny rivulets left by tears.
walter		 Where did it all go?  The train stops, the green doors slide open.
eddie		 Where are we, Third Avenue?
arnold		 Where are we getting off? Next stop?
charlie		 Yeah.
walter		 I'm going home.
charlie		 What did you say, Walter?
walter		I'm going home.
charlie		 Walter, where are you going? Come here ...  On the platform, Walter has started to weave slowly up the platform toward the stairway.
eddie		 What, did Walter get out?
charlie		 Walter, stay there, we'll come back on the next train. Stay there.
arnold		Poor Walter, huh?
charlie		 Walter! ...
eddie		 He'll be all right, Charlie. God protects drunks and fools.
charlie		Walter! Grab a cab if you're going home!  The train has swept by, and in a moment they have been plunged into the tunnel of the subway, the bleak dirty white walls, and the small yellow lights flashing by. Charlie sits down, somehow greatly shaken and disturbed.
eddie		 Poor Walter, I didn't know he was so sick. I thought there was something wrong with him, though. He's been out so much.
arnold		 I didn't know he was so sick.
charlie		That's me in fifteen years.
charlie		That's where I live.
eddie		Which one?
charlie		In the back there. You can't see it from here.  LONG SHOT of Stuyvesant Town as seen from their point of view. PAN SLOWLY ACROSS, capturing the silent monotony of the dark buildings. Only a few of the windows are still lit.
eddie		It looks like a state hospital.
charlie		It looks like a prison.
eddie		Yeah, it does look a little like a prison.  The three men just stand, worn out, tired.
charlie		 I'm going home.
eddie		 Hey, Charlie ...  Charlie turns.
eddie		Hey, Charlie! What about the money? Have you got ten bucks?
charlie		 All right, if you want to walk me to the house, I'll get you ten bucks.
charlie		 I'll be right out.
helen		Hiya, have a nice time?
charlie		I'm taking ten bucks. A couple of the guys are waiting outside. I promised them I'd loan them ten bucks.
helen		Sure.
charlie		 Tomorrow's payday. I'll get it back tomorrow.
helen		It's in the drawer.
helen		What's the matter, Charlie?
charlie		I don't know.
helen		It's not so bad, Charlie.
charlie		I know. I know.
charlie		 I don't know what's the matter with me, I keep getting so depressed. I'm going to quit night school, Helen. My nerves are shot.
charlie		Those guys are waiting outside. I better give them their money.
helen		Charlie ... Maybe I shouldn't have the baby?
charlie		What do you mean? ...
charlie		Isn't that dangerous? ... Well, I don't know ... maybe ... Well, you brought it up.
helen		 You really don't want this baby....
helen		You're my husband, Charlie. This is your baby too. That doesn't mean anything to you. For the first time in our marriage I feel I can't depend on you, Charlie -- I'm not important to you.  I could make my life sound hard, too, Charlie. I work all day, I rush home, I make you dinner. I sit home alone four nights a week, I'm even alone when you're here because when do I see you? But it was easy for me because I loved you. Do you think I care whether you're an accountant or a ditch digger, or even out of work? All I ever wanted was you. And this baby because it's you, too.
helen		 Leave me alone, Charlie.
charlie		 I decided I'd quit school and ...
helen		I don't care ...
charlie		I decided I'd quit school and come home in the evenings like everybody else and live a normal life.
helen		 I don't care what you do, Charlie.  He stands another moment.
charlie		I don't care what I do either.
eddie		What took you so long? What did you do, blow open the safe?
charlie		 Here.
eddie		 I'll give it to you tomorrow. I'll see you in the morning, Charlie.
charlie		I'll see you.
charlie		Wait a minute. I'll go with you.
eddie		Let's go to that party -- we'll have a ball!
hostess		I'm sure that's the police again.
hostess		 Are you coming to complain about the noise?
eddie		Do we look like complainers?
hostess		The police have been here twice. The first fellow was just adorable. We gave him a drink, and he's upstairs in a bedroom now, for all I know.
eddie		Is that right?
hostess		If you want something to drink, you'll just have to go into the kitchen and get it yourself. The place is just mad. Do you write, paint or sing?
eddie		Everything.
charlie		Boy, do you get invited to a party like this or do you get committed?
young chap		I heard that. It's awfully funny.  Charlie regards the smiling young chap.
eddie		Beat it.
eddie		This is going to be like shooting ducks. Pick out your duck, men.
eddie		Hey, what's the matter, Charlie? 
charlie		 Let's get out of here, Eddie.
eddie		The last time I saw you, you was with that girl you picked up. What happened?
charlie		She's over there talking to that old guy with the glasses.  Their point of view, The Existentialist on steps with landlord.
charlie		I didn't like her. She's one of these real Greenwich Village phonies. If I added up all the guys she told me about, she must have had her first boy friend when she was two years old. Where are you going, Eddie. Stick around a minute.
eddie		 I'm with that one over there -- not bad, huh? I think she's a Communist. I think she's trying to talk me into joining the Party.
charlie		How are you making out?
eddie		Not so hot. I may have to join.
charlie		Hang around. Let's talk a bit.
eddie		I better get back. She's liable to recruit somebody else.
charlie		Where's Arnold?
eddie		He's in the kitchen. I think he's out cold. I'll see you.  Charlie nods as Eddie moves off. He returns his morose attention back to his glass of liquor. Then his eyes close, and his face, though impassive, shows pain. After a moment, he opens his eyes and slowly clambers to his feet and makes his way, a little unsteadily, through the living room in the direction of the kitchen. In the background we can hear the piano and somebody singing indistinguishable lyrics. Charlie gets to the kitchen door and looks in. Arnold is at the tiny kitchen table, head on the table, out cold. The kitchen is in a state of havoc.
charlie		Hey Arnold-- You okay, Arnold?  Arnold makes no answer. Charlie regards his prostrated friend expressionlessly for a moment. Then turns and shuffles aimlessly back to the group around the piano in the living room. He looks over to the stairway again. The Existentialist is alone now, The Landlord having gone for the moment. She is looking at Charlie, and he drops his eyes. He turns away from the piano and moves out a few steps into the middle of the living room. He moves to the stairway. The Existentialist looks up at him as he approaches, Charlie kind of nods to her, and, for a moment, she just sits and he just stands. Then ...
the existentialist		That old man I was talking to before? That's my landlord. About ten thirty last night, someone began pounding on my door. So I got up and opened the door, and there was this white-haired man with  a pince-nez standing there. I said: "What do you want?" So he said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." Well, I just looked at him because the landlord I knew was a Hungarian man named Frank, who was crazy about me, and the issue of rent never came up, you see. Well, it turned out that this man with the pince-nez had just bought the building the day before and he kept grabbing my arm and saying he wanted the rent. Well, then I got the point, of course. Well, meanwhile, a boy named Bob I knew had come over. He's engaged to a Javanese girl with wonderful planes in her face who lives at the International House. But he's crazy about me and he drops in about twice a week. Well, meanwhile, my new landlord was grabbing my arm and kept quoting poetry to me which he was trying to pass off as his own. He was an absolute fraud. He scotched the whole thing from Baudelaire. "Tu mettrais." You know that one. Well, he kept screaming about the rent -- I didn't like him, you know -- and I called this boy named George who used to live in Poughkeepsie when I was going to Vassar, and he's crazy about me. He lives in St. Luke's place now, but he goes to Poughkeepsie every Wednesday to see his mother, he's got an Oedipus, so that was out. Well, my new landlord kept telling me how much he was in love with me. I said: "How existentialist can you get? You just met me five minutes ago." He was absolutely crazy about me.
charlie		 What's up there? What kind of rooms are up there?
the existentialist		So, I finally got to sleep around six thirty....  Charlie bends down to her, takes her arm.
charlie		Come on, let's go.
the existentialist		 No! Oh, stop trying to be so primitive.
the existentialist		I find you very unpleasant.  He stands, she sits in sullen silence.
the existentialist		There's nothing upstairs.  Oh, I don't care.
the existentialist		So I finally got to sleep around six thirty this morning. At nine thirty, someone began pounding on my door again. I got out of bed and opened the door, and there was my landlord with the pince-nez wearing a blue silk kimono. "Oh, for heaven's sakes," I said, "what do you want now?" He said: "I'm the landlord, and I want the rent." I said: "You're an old man, go to sleep." Then the phone rang. It was a boy named Andrew I know who teaches physics at Columbia University, and he's insanely jealous. He's married and has four children, but he keeps badgering me to run away with him to Nicaragua, throw up his professorship and all that. Well, my landlord began shouting some garbled Baudelaire at the top of his lungs, and a little Verlaine, and a little Huysmans. He apparently has some kind of fetish about French decadents. And naturally, Andrew heard him, and he got furious, and he said: "Who's that I hear?" I said, "That's the landlord." He said: "What does he want?" I said: "He wants the rent." Well, at this point, I felt like chucking the whole business and going back to Bessemer City and going to work in my father's hardware store.
the existentialist		 Just say you love me.
charlie		What?
the existentialist		Just say you love me. You don't have to mean it.  He tries to kiss her again, himself charged high at the moment, but she turns her face away from him. The dialogue is intense, whispered, hungry.
the existentialist		No, don't. ...
charlie		What's the matter?
the existentialist		Say you love me....
charlie		Come on.
the existentialist		Say you love me....
charlie		Come on....
the existentialist		No ...
charlie		I love you! I love you!
the existentialist		 Look, maybe we ought to go someplace else? I'm having a very tricky thing going with my landlord and I don't want him to see us leaving together. So you know what you do? There's a bar down the street. You go out the door and turn to your right. You know the one I mean?
charlie		Yes, I know.
the existentialist		Well, you go there and I'll be there as fast as I can. Now, wait for me now, because I can't stand being alone at night. You'll like me. I'm supposed to be very amusing. All right?
charlie		 Hey, Eddie ...
charlie		 Eddie, I'm cutting out.
eddie		 Wait a minute, I'll go with you.
charlie		I don't want to take you away from your girl, Eddie.
eddie		Aah, this one lives out in Long Island with her mother. What kind of Communist is that? It'll take me a half hour on the subway there and a half hour back.
charlie		 Where's Arnold? Still in the kitchen?
eddie		I guess so.  I'll see you, next time I get to Long Island.  He starts off after Charlie who is already wandering through the living room in the general direction of the kitchen, looking about for Arnold. They pass The Existentialist en route. She is saying: "... this boy named Charlie, I never saw him before in my life, has been clutching at me all evening. He's absolutely insane about me." Charlie leans into the kitchen where Arnold is awake now, seated at the small kitchen table, staring gauntly, unseeingly at his fingers on the white porcelain-topped table. There are two men, one middle-aged, one young, having a whispered chat over the sink.
eddie		 Hey, Arnold, come on.
eddie		Well, it wasn't a bad party. We killed a couple of hours anyway.
eddie		... I mean, you can't compare the two. This kid the Yankees have in centerfield. Are you trying to tell me he's a natural .368 hitter? What's he normally hit, .310, .315? Musial led the National League in hitting six times. He's only having a fair year, this year -- and he's still hitting .320. Musial is an all-time great!
charlie		Yeah. I guess so.
arnold		 Eddie -- Eddie. So what do you think, Eddie? You think I ought to go through with this marriage?
eddie		I don't know about you, Arnold, but if it was me, boy, I'd be in China by now.  Who have the Yankees got on first? Skowron. Boy, how they touted Skowron. All right, he's having a lucky year.
charlie		Yeah....
eddie		 ... Well, I mean, is there any argument? Hodges is the best first baseman in both leagues....
arnold		So, Eddie, what do you think? You think I ought to marry her, go to China, or what?
eddie		Arnold, if it bothers you so much, call her up and tell her to forget the whole deal.  All right Hodges is having a bad year -- but how about last year? He hit over .300. He only hit thirty- five homers and he drove in over a hundred runs----
arnold		So, Eddie...
eddie		Arnold! Get rid of her! You're driving me crazy!  Arnold lowers his head, and he rises, loses his precarious balance and moves backward a few lurching steps.
eddie		 All right, who's on second? We got Charlie Neal or Gilliam, for that matter, and this isn't even counting Jackie Robinson, head and shoulders, even with a trick knee, the best second baseman in both leagues if they'd let him play there. We got three guys, for Pete's sake, who can outplay anybody the Yankees put on second.  Arnold weaves slowly up the bar to the two phone booths at the far end of the counter. Then walks out of shot.
eddie		 Ever see Charlie Neal go to his right? That Yankee guy, what's his name -- he can't go to his right. And don't forget Neal gets a lot of bases on balls, and once he's on the bases, man, it unnerves the pitcher ...  The bartender decides to take issue.
bartender		What's Brooklyn going to do for pitching?
eddie		Never heard of Newcombe? Never heard of Erskine?
bartender		What have you got to compare with Ford, Kucks, McDermott, Turley---
eddie		McDermott -- McDermott hasn't pitched a full game since last year.
bartender		The best relief pitcher in both leagues.
eddie		What's the matter with Eddie Roebuck?
bartender		How do you compare Eddie Roebuck with McDermott?
eddie		What are you, a Yankee fan?
bartender		Yeah.
eddie		Well, drop dead.  A Yankee fan.
arnold's voice		Hey!
arnold		I did it.
eddie		You did what?
arnold		I just woke her up! I called her! I said: "I'm not going to marry you. What do I want to marry you for? I'm having a ball. What am I going to marry you for?"
eddie		What is he talking about?
bartender		Boy, he's gone.
charlie		I think he's just called his girl, broke his engagement.
eddie		Is that what he was yelling about?
charlie		 Wake up, kid. Help me get him up, Eddie.
eddie		You think he did it because I was needling him there before? I was just needling him.
bartender		You better get him out of here because I'm closing up now.
charlie		We better get him home.
eddie		Ah, let's not break it up yet. I thought you were waiting for this girl.
charlie		It's three o'clock in the morning, for Pete's sake.
bartender		Take him out in the air. He'll be all right.
charlie		What a bachelor party. We start out celebrating the guy's wedding; we wind up breaking his engagement.  Eddie, pay it, will you? I gave you the ten bucks.
eddie		 What do you want to go home for?
charlie		It's going to take us an hour to get him home. He lives in Queens somewheres. By the time I get back to Fourteenth Street, it'll be daybreak. What are you going to do, stay up all night? Don't you want to go home sometimes?
eddie		What am I going to do home? I read all the papers.
charlie		 Well, go to sleep then.
eddie		Ah, don't go home, Charlie. I feel like doing something.  Charlie turns to him, a cold fury in him.
charlie		What? Stand around this bar and argue about the Yankees and the Dodgers? Wind up with some miserable, lonely girl who begs you to say, "I love you"? Go home, Eddie. Go to bed. You got to go home sometimes. I'll take Arnold home. Come on, Arnold, kid. I'm going to take you home.
eddie		 Hey, honey, what are you, a Yankee fan or a Dodger fan?
bar hag		Hiya.
charlie		 Are you all right, Arnold?
charlie		Would you like to go back in and sit down?  Arnold shakes his head weakly "no."
charlie		What subway do you take, Arnold, the BMT? Can you make it?
charlie		Come on, Arnold, I'll take you home.
the existentialist		Is he all right?
charlie		 Yeah, he's all right. Look, I've got to take my friend home...
the existentialist		 Are you coming back? Where does he live? How long will you be?
arnold		Well, thanks a lot, Charlie.
charlie		You all right?
arnold		Yeah, I'm all right. I'm a little groggy, but I'm awake anyway. You don't want to come in, do you?
charlie		No, I don't think so.
arnold		I think my father and mother are up. I hear voices. My girl must have called them because they wouldn't be up at this hour.
charlie		Well, you just go in and explain to them that you were drunk, and you're sorry, and you'll call your girl the first thing in the morning because she must really be upset about this.
arnold		 I think she's here.
charlie		Who?
arnold		My girl. I think I hear her voice in there.
charlie		Well, be nice to her, Arnold. Remember, you woke her up in the middle of the night and probably scared her to death.
arnold		What'll I say to her, Charlie?
charlie		I don't know, Arnold. What do you feel like saying to her? Do you really love this girl? Do you want to marry her? Are you marrying this girl because your family wants you to marry her, or why?
arnold		I think I like her, Charlie. It's just that I'm afraid I won't make a good husband.
charlie		Well, tell her what you told me, Arnold. Tell her you're scared, and that you don't think you'll make a good husband. If she's a halfway decent girl, she'll try to understand how you feel, and, if she loves you, she's going to make it her job to make you happy. That's what love is, Arnold, when you have somebody else in the world you want to be happy. My wife, Arnold, I don't know what I'd do without her. Arnold, I've got a tough grind ahead of me. Work all day, I'll go to night school at night. But my wife knows that I need this to be happy, and she does everything she knows to help me. And we've got a baby coming. But if you love that baby and you love your wife, then it's easy. Everything seems so easy to me now -- I don't know why I even thought of quitting.  Arnold, I want my wife so much right now. I want her to be happy. I want to just go home and hold her and tell her how much she means to me. I mean, even Walter, he's going to die, but don't you think he'll be in tomorrow morning, same old Walter, jokes and laughs? He's got somebody to live for. He's even got somebody to die for. I mean, how rich can a man be? And poor Eddie -- I used to be so jealous of him. I used to think he was so free. Free from what? From loving a woman, from really wanting a woman. Arnold, what I'm trying to tell you is life is nothing if you don't love somebody but life is wonderful if you do love somebody. Arnold, I want my wife so much right now ...
arnold		I'm going to tell her about that woman tonight and everything. I'll tell her about that woman.
charlie		Arnold, I want to get home so much to my wife right now I'm going to bust.
arnold		I'll see you, Charlie.
charlie		Good-bye, Arnold, have a nice honeymoon. I'll see you when you get back.
arnold		I'll see you, Charlie.
arnold		Hello, Louise. I'm very sorry, honest.
charlie		I love you, Helen.
helen		 I love you so much, Charlie. I love you so much....
charlie		I love you....
helen		I love you, Charlie, I love you, Charlie. I love you, Charlie ...
****Dialogues from script :Back-up_Plan.txt****

zoe		My toes...sorry.
zoe		Right.   Duh.
zoe		That's it?
zoe		This is the first time I've heard that ticking clock sound and it doesn't freak me out.
zoe		I can't, I'm totally freaking out.
bobby		Says here he has red hair and freckles.
zoe		And glasses, too.
bobby		And why are we picking him?
zoe		Because he's honest.
bobby		He's ugly.
zoe		You think they're all telling the truth? If they're so smart and good looking, why are they beating off into a cup?
bobby		Have you ever fucked a guy with red hair and freckles?
zoe		No, and I won't have to.
bobby		But what about your kid? No one's going to want to fuck your kid.  That came out wrong.
zoe		Yeah...it's a good thing you're not going to be the father.
bobby		What?    I can't be the father!
zoe		Come on, we don't have to have sex.
bobby		Oh, Jesus, I didn't even think about that. Rewind, rewind, rewind...
zoe		You're one of my best friends. Don't you want to help me?
bobby		Yeah, but...that's too much. I'll walk your dog, tell you when you look fat, be honest about your eyebrows...
zoe		Just a few sperm. Big deal. You waste billions of them every night.
bobby		You know I flee at the slightest chance of intimacy. Do you see these bags under my eyes? Ricardo slept over last night, and he wanted to hold me. I actually had to fake a seizure.
zoe		Forget it.     Forget the whole thing.
mona		You don't want kids.    Trust me.
zoe		Easy for you to say.    You have four.
mona		Yeah, and it's awful.
zoe		Come on...
mona		Have you seen my vagina?
zoe		I don't want to see your vagina.    I want a baby. My own baby.
mona		Is it possible you're just a little lonely? You know, you haven't met the right guy and--
zoe		It's not about a guy. I don't need a guy. I don't even think I want a guy at this point. I've dated a hundred guys in the last five years, and not one of them is even close to being the one. How long am I supposed to wait?
mona		You never know. He could be right around the corner.
zoe		Well, then he's late. And I hate people who are late. And what if he's not right around the corner? What if he's miles away?
zoe		Ding.
zoe		Oh.   Okay.
zoe		Hi.
pregnant women		Hi.
zoe		Hi.
woman		Hi.
zoe		Sorry.
woman		Stop it.
zoe		Hi!
zoe		Hallelujah!
stan		You own it?
zoe		No, but I'm about to rent it.
stan		Actually, if we're being technical, you kind of stole it.
zoe		I don't think so.
stan		If you see someone about to get in a cab, you can't just run in from the other side and say it's yours.
zoe		I didn't see you.
stan		I saw you see me.
zoe		 Sir, who saw you first?
stan		Maybe you're not from around here, but there's a code. It's like war, even though it's brutal and bloody, there are still certain rules we--
zoe		Fine.   Forget it.   I'll get out.
stan		No.   I'll get out.  They each get out.
zoe		Now what?
stan		I don't know. You tell me.
zoe		What? Where's he going?!  Come back!
stan		You said you were in a great mood and I was ruining it. I felt bad.  Did you just call me stupid-head?
zoe		Oh, man...
stan		How's your great mood now?
stan		How `bout now?
zoe		Please stop talking to me.
stan		So, why are you in such a good mood anyway?
zoe		Not that it's any of your business, but...good things are happening to me.
stan		That's nice. I hope it continues.
zoe		Thanks. Well, have a nice life. Try not to steal any more cabs.
stan		You do the same.
zoe		Hey, Nutsy. How's it going?
bobby		Oh, my God, you're glowing.  She's glowing, right?
jalisa		Glowing.   Tell us everything.
bobby		Everything.
zoe		There's not much to tell.
bobby		You just got shot up with a wad of red-headed-freckle sperm. There's something to tell.
jalisa		He had red hair and freckles?
bobby		I tried to talk her out of it.
jalisa		Why'd you do that, Mami?
bobby		 I know, right?
jalisa		Red pubes.     Eek...
zoe		I'm never going to see his pubes!
bobby		You'll see your kid's pubes.
zoe		I doubt it.
bobby		But you'll know they're there.
zoe		What is wrong with you?
jalisa		So, what happened?    Come on...
zoe		I lay down, put my feet up, five minutes later it was over. I barely felt a thing.
bobby		Sounds like Ricardo.
jalisa		Tell me about it, Papi.
bobby		So...what happens now?
zoe		Now, we wait.
bobby		That's no fun, I want to know if I'm going to be a fairy godmother.
zoe		We'll just have to wait and see.
bobby		Come on, Zoe, one drink. You can have an O'Dhouls or something.
jalisa		We'll go to the piano bar and get Bobby to sing some Ace of Base.
bobby		Forget it, she's not coming. I can tell by the dull look on her face.
zoe		Love you.
stan		Hi.
zoe		Aahhh!
stan		Oh, wow.   Is he...okay?
zoe		What are you doing here?
stan		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to scare you. Or hurt your dog. Don't worry, I'm not a stalker.
zoe		How'd you know I worked here?
stan		I followed you after the subway.  That sounds a little stalkery, huh?
zoe		Yeah.
stan		I just really wanted to see you again. Almost like I had to see you again. Can I walk you home?  Is it me or does everything I say make me sound more like a stalker?
zoe		Cheese?
stan		Yeah. My family has a goat farm. We make cheese. You like cheese?
zoe		I guess. I've never really thought about it.
stan		Little Goat. Maybe you've seen us at the Farmer's market? Come by sometime and you can taste my cheese.  Okay, I'm going to go. This has not gone as planned.
zoe		Bye.
carol		Everyone, please say hello to Zoe.
everyone		Hi, Zoe.
carol		Welcome to Single Mother's By Choice. As the name suggests, we are all single mothers by choice. Some of us have adopted, some conceived with a donor, every story is different, but with the same common denominator. We wanted to have a child, and we didn't need a partner to make it happen.
lori		Are you a doer or a tryer?
zoe		Excuse me?
lori		Are you already a single mother or are you trying to become one?
zoe		Oh, I guess I'm trying. I was just inseminated a few days ago.  Inseminated...makes me feel like a cow or something.
carol		Well, when we don't have partners with penises, we do what we've got to do, right?  So, tell us a little bit about yourself.
zoe		Okay. Let's see...um, I own a pet store on Hudson Street. Dogs, cats, rabbits...no birds, they creep me out. Before that, I worked for Google, which I completely hated. One day, I decided life was too short, and, against my accountant's advice, I quit Google, cashed out and bought the pet store. Now I'm really happy on the work front, but I still haven't found, you know, the one.
carol		Ah, yes.   The elusive "one."
zoe		I always imagined I'd be married with kids by now, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen that way. So, time for Plan B.
carol		Society tells us we're supposed to find that special person to make us happy and complete. But guess what...you have to create your own happiness. You don't need someone to complete you, some...man. You already are complete.
lori		Amen, sister.
carol		If you want to have a baby, we here at Single Mothers By Choice can be your partners. We will be your emotional rocks.
sara		Dakota was actually born right here in this very room. Right where you're sitting, actually.
zoe		 Really? Right here?      Imagine that.
sara		Best day of my life.
zoe		And how old is she now?
dakota		I'm three.
mona		Why did you join a support group of unattractive, militant lesbians when you have me?
zoe		Because you're really not that supportive.
mona		Sure I am.
zoe		You just told me that if I breast- feed "my girls" will end up looking like empty tube socks.
mona		I'm just being honest. And don't even get me started on what childbirth does to your bladder.
zoe		What does it do to your bladder?
mona		I just peed a little bit.
zoe		I don't think I'm pregnant. The doctor says it will probably take several tries. Something about frozen sperm being lazy.
mona		Good.   Take your time.
zoe		So, should I call this guy?   Do you think that would be weird?
mona		Do I think it's weird that you're pursuing someone at the exact moment in time that you might be most unavailable? No. Because that's what you do. You sabotage.
zoe		 He works at the Farmer's market. And it's right around the corner. Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
mona		I look fat and old?
zoe		No.
mona		Then, no.
zoe		Let's go spy on him. Come on. It will be fun. Like high school.
mona		I can't.  This twenty minute breakfast concludes my "me" time for the week. More proof that you should not have kids.
zoe		Oh, well.
olivia		Can I help you?
zoe		 No, I'm fine.
olivia		Tasty, huh?
zoe		What?
olivia		And don't look now, but he's coming this way.
stan		A-ha! I didn't scare you away after all.
zoe		 I was just in the neighborhood. I thought I'd come by and get some blueberries. I'm going to make a pie.
stan		I love blueberry pie.
zoe		I'm confused. I thought you made cheese or something.
stan		What makes you think I don't?
zoe		I don't know, you're over there playing the banjo.
stan		Can't someone do both?
zoe		Honestly, I didn't know anyone did either.
olivia		Aren't you going to introduce me to your new friend?
stan		Nope.  Come on. Let me show you around.
stan		This is our basic chevre, probably our best seller. The cheese that started it all, as they say. Then over here we have our surface- ripened cheeses. These are the aged/raw milk cheeses.  This is really boring, huh?
zoe		No, not at all.
stan		It's like you're in a foreign country and the only thing to watch on tv is a documentary on cheese. You don't want to watch it, but somehow you can't stop...
zoe		 I think it's interesting.    Really.
stan		All right, you asked for it...  The aged/raw milk cheeses are made from raw milk and then aged for four to six months. Sometimes more. Sometimes less. Usually more. Depends on the cheese.
fred		Stop.   You're killing me.
stan		Fred, Zoe, Zoe, Fred.  She's the one I followed from the subway the other day like a total psychopath.
fred		Right...I heard about you.
zoe		I don't know whether to be flattered or terrified.
fred		Be afraid.
stan		Don't scare her away.   I'm trying to redeem myself.
fred		Then you should put down the banjo. You look like a doofus.
stan		Doofus?  Do you think I look like a doofus?
zoe		I don't really know what a doofus looks like.
stan		Okay. If I put the banjo down, can I take you to lunch or something?
zoe		I should really get back to work.
stan		Come on, say the word and we can have a six-course tasting menu at Union Square Cafe. I know the chef.
zoe		That sounds nice, but, I should probably go.
stan		Well, can I call you?
bobby		Okay, spill it.
jalisa		Who is he? What does he do?    How do we know him?
zoe		What are you talking about?
jalisa		Stan from the Farmer's Market? He's called twice already.
zoe		Really?
bobby		Is he a farmer? Because that's not okay.
zoe		No.   He makes cheese.
bobby		He's a pilgrim?
zoe		I don't know what he is. He's cute and different and plays the banjo.  I think I like him.
bobby		What about the, you know, bun in the oven?
zoe		I really doubt I'm pregnant.
jalisa		You want to be pregnant. You don't want to be pregnant. I'm confused.
zoe		I want to be pregnant. Of course I want to be pregnant. I mean, I put a lot of thought into this, right?  So what did Stan say?
bobby		He says to name any restaurant you want to go to. 
stan		We could have gone anywhere.
zoe		Just take a bite.   You'll see.
stan		Per Se, Jean Georges, Nobu...
zoe		Gray's Papaya.   Cheers.
stan		I actually haven't lived here my whole life. We moved out of the city when my parents bought the farm....not died, but actually bought a farm and moved upstate.
zoe		That must have been a nice place to grow up. On a farm.
stan		What about your family?
zoe		It's just me and my grandmother. She lives in a retirement community in Queens.  My parents died when I was young.
stan		I'm so sorry.
zoe		It's okay.  My dad was kind of a bad guy, anyway.
stan		Shit.   I'm so sorry, Zoe.
zoe		No, come on, we'll get all this stuff out of the way so we never have to talk about it again. Let's ask all the awkward, get-to-know- you questions right now.
stan		Okay.   Good idea.
zoe		Let's see...are you religious?
stan		Nope.   What about you?
zoe		No.
stan		Have you ever been married?
zoe		No.
stan		Aren't you sick of going to weddings?
zoe		If I have to listen to one more couple write their own vows...
stan		I hate when they write their own vows!
zoe		What about them?
stan		Well, do you want them?
zoe		Yeah.   I want kids.
stan		Yeah.   Absolutely.
zoe		Okay, first kiss...
stan		Jen Salzer. Seventh grade. She wore a head-gear. What about you?
zoe		Summer camp. I think his name was--
stan		When can I see you again?
zoe		What if I'm pregnant?
mona		Then you'll get fat and hormonal and I'll say, "I told you so."
zoe		But what if this could go somewhere with Stan? Like, really go somewhere.
mona		Then it will work out perfectly.
zoe		What do you mean?
mona		Because just when you really like him, you'll break up because you're pregnant and then you never have to put yourself out there and possibly get hurt. That's your dream.
zoe		 I'm not pregnant.  She gets off the machine.
mona		So, when are you seeing him again?
zoe		Tonight.
mona		Well, don't have sex with him. That's the last thing we need. You get knocked up and we'll have no idea who the father is.
zoe		I'm not going to have sex with him tonight. It's too soon.  I'm not a slut.
mona		Well, bring condoms, just in case.  And a pregnancy test.
zoe		Very funny.
mona		I'm not joking.
zoe		I'm really not a slut.
zoe		There's no way, right?
zoe		Stop looking at me like that.   I'm not pregnant.
stan		Are you feeling okay?
stan		And this looks like a mache salad with grapes and feta.
olivia		Hey, stranger.
stan		Oh, hey, Olivia.   You remember Zoe.
olivia		Right. How'd that blueberry pie turn out?
zoe		What?
olivia		You bought blueberries from me? Said you were going to make a pie?
zoe		Um, can you excuse me for a second?
olivia		No way she knows how to bake a pie.
zoe		I'm pregnant.
zoe		Brooklyn.
zoe		I can't. I'm at some underground foodie party in Brooklyn. Where am I gonna--  Out the window and across the street, we see a drugstore.
stan		Where have you been?
zoe		Sorry.   You scared me.
stan		Did you just go to the store?
zoe		Yeah, I had a little emergency. I have a, a, um...corn, and I needed to get those little...corn pads.
stan		Corn pads?
zoe		I know, it's gross. Do you know where the bathroom is?
stan		What's a corn pad?
zoe		Corn pad?    What the hell is wrong with you?
zoe		Excuse me, are you allowed to drink when you're...
pregnant woman		Pregnant?  My doctor says one glass is--
stan		Who makes me forget all the other girls I met, sweet, little Miss Blue Eyes. Who's sweeter to me, than she really ought to be, sweet little Miss Blue Eyes.
zoe		Ohhhhhhhh.
stan		My singing made you vomit.
zoe		No.    It's not that.
stan		Sure, we were a little out of tune, but...
zoe		I really don't feel well.
stan		Is it your corns?    Hurts to walk?
carol		Zoe?
zoe		Wow.   Hi.    Hey, there...
carol		Where have you been?    You haven't been coming to any--
zoe		 This is my friend, Stan.
stan		Hi.
carol		 Hello. Are you two--
zoe		Late. Yes. We are. We really are.  I'll see you at the meeting. Bye.
stan		An old...boyfriend?
zoe		Her name is Carol. We're on a...committee together.
stan		Okay.  Hey, I was thinking, if you don't have any plans this weekend, maybe you'd like to come up to the farm and get away for a few days.
zoe		I'll call you tomorrow. Something's not agreeing with me.
stan		Was it the lamb's tongue?
zoe		What the hell have I done?
annie		Hi, Zoe.   You look fantastic.
zoe		I don't know how that's possible.
annie		Something's different. Did you get highlights or a spray tan? Your face looks like it's...
zoe		Please don't say glowing.
annie		Yes!   Exactly!
zoe		Morning, Arthur.
arthur		Hello, my dear!
zoe		No, no, no, don't get up.
arthur		Good, because I can't get up. Came to see my lovely fiance? She's looking fine today, let me tell you. Fine.
zoe		Hi, Nana.
nana		One more mile to go. Do you have a minute? Talk to Arthur.
arthur		That's what I'm talking about. Work it.
nana		Do you want a nose guard?   I have an extra.
zoe		No, I'm fine.
shirley		Are you sure? Ethel Silverbeck just had another carcinoma removed from her nose.
zoe		 I kind of need to talk to you. Alone.
nana		Don't worry, they can't hear anything anyway.
zoe		I'm pregnant.
nana		 What?
zoe		I'm pregnant.
nana		What?
zoe		I'm pregnant.
nana		I can't hear you, darling.
shirley		Jesus, Judy, she's pregnant.   Turn your hearing aide up.
zoe		What am I going to do?
nana		I'm confused. Isn't this what you wanted? You bought sperm and were inseminated by your doctor. This isn't what we would call an accident.
zoe		But now it's all happening so fast. Did I really think this through?
nana		We talked about it for months. You said it was what you wanted more than anything in the world.
zoe		But this guy, he's...special.   It's all going to fall apart now.
nana		What makes him so special?
zoe		I don't know. He's very...real. And funny. And different. The other guys I've been with all had their briefcases and their five- year plans and their secretaries they were fucking. Stan doesn't have a five-year plan. I don't even know if he has a plan.
nana		What about a secretary?
zoe		Some kid named Fred.  I like him, Nana.
nana		Well, if he's the right one, he'll stay.
zoe		Do you really think so?
nana		Gosh, I don't know. I hoped that would be enough to appease you.
zoe		Should I still visit him for the weekend? Or should I just vanish and hope he forgets I ever existed.
nana		Don't be silly. Go up there for the weekend. Spend some time with him and see what he's really like.
zoe		Yeah.   You're right.
nana		You might find out he's a total douchebag and then the whole thing is moot.  Zoe looks at Nana.   Douchebag?
zoe		Okay, so we'll just hope that he's a douchebag. Could happen, right?
zoe		Am I even allowed to drink coffee?
zoe		Thanks a lot, decaf.
zoe		I have no idea.
zoe		He's so not a douchebag.
zoe		I can't believe you live here. This is ridiculous.
stan		I just come on weekends. My parents really live here.
zoe		Oh.   Where are they now?
stan		In the kitchen.
zoe		Wait, they're here? Now? Is this a "meet the parents" kind of thing? I wasn't prepared for this.
stan		No. Not at all.    I mean, you'll meet them, but--
zoe		When you said come up for the weekend, I assumed it was just us.  I think I need to lay down.
stan		Are you hung-over or something?
zoe		I'm just...not myself. Give me ten minutes. A ten-minute power nap and I'm good. I need to regroup.
stan		Are you sure you're okay?  Zoe? Hello?
edward		Oh.   It's just you.
stan		She's taking a nap.
joan		A nap?   Now? She just got here.
stan		Mom, I need you to not be judgemental, okay. I like this girl a lot.
joan		How can I be judgemental?    We haven't even met her yet.
stan		Oh.   This is Nuts.
joan		Who's judging?!
zoe		What was that?
zoe		 Stan?
zoe		Stan?    Hello?
joan		Would you like a plate?
edward		The stew is delicious, honey.
stan		Yeah, Mom, it's awesome.
edward		 Have you ever in your life had stew like this? Come on, be honest.
zoe		Uh...no.    Never.
joan		So are all the animals in your pet store...differently abled?
zoe		Oh, you can say paralyzed. He doesn't mind.  No, our pets are all in great shape. Purebreads mostly, but not from puppy mills.
joan		Those puppy mills are terrible.    I read about them in the paper.
zoe		Well, that's actually how I ended up with Nuts. I bought him from this pet store near my house. Six months later, I had thousands of dollars in vet bills and had to put him in a wheelchair.
edward		You should have sued that place.
zoe		I thought about it, but what was that really going to do? They were still going to sell inbred dogs. So...I took the money I made when I left Google and just bought the place figuring I would do better.
stan		You worked for Google?
zoe		You never asked.
stan		And you made a lot of money and then bought a pet store?
zoe		It's been fun. Beats brand management, that's for sure.
joan		 That sounds like us, honey.
edward		It's true.  When we bought this farm we just wanted to make cheese because we couldn't find anything we liked in the stores. And now, twenty years later, here we are...
joan		Sometimes in life you just have to take matters into your own hands. Make things happen your own way, you know?
stan		I can't believe that Nuts has an off-road wheelchair.
zoe		He's got one for snow, too.      With little skis on the bottom.
stan		You're really something.
zoe		Are you making fun of me?   Do you think I spoil him?
stan		No, I really think you're amazing. I mean, that story you told tonight. You just quit your whole professional life because of this little dog? Started your own business, just like that?
zoe		Well, you're a dime a dozen. I can't tell you how many banjo playing, cheese makers I've been with.
stan		I keep waiting for the other shoe to drop. Like, how can you be so perfect? Why are you even still single? I can't believe no one's snatched you up by now.
zoe		I drive them all away, I guess.
stan		Yeah, right.
zoe		It is going fast.
stan		But isn't that okay? Aren't we old enough to skip all the bullshit? What are we waiting for? I...want to be with you.
zoe		Stan.
stan		Come on. There's something I want to show you.
zoe		What is it?
stan		It's cheese.
zoe		I can see that.
stan		It's a new kind of goat's milk we're using. I've been developing the recipe, and now it needs to age. It'll be ready for market in several months.  Want to know what it's called?
zoe		Okay.
stan		Zoe.
zoe		You named a piece of cheese after me?
stan		Not just one piece. The whole line. This will forever in history be known as the Zoe. 
zoe		How do you know?
stan		Because it's going to be fantastic. Sweet and sassy and very complex. Why do you think I'm calling it Zoe?
zoe		No one's ever named a piece of cheese after me before.
stan		You're kind of hard to read right now. You're either seriously flattered or totally repulsed.
zoe		I want to kiss you right now, but it really smells like cheese in here.
zoe		 You're such a douchebag.
stan		What?
stan		That was amazing. I mean, like, totally and exceptionally, over-the- top, amazing.
zoe		Stan.
stan		Yeah.
zoe		There's something I really have to tell you.
stan		There's something I have to tell you, too.
zoe		We're not going to say the same thing.
stan		Well, let me go, because this is really embarrassing, and I just have to say it.
zoe		Okay.
stan		I've dated a lot of women. I mean, not tons, but a lot. And, the thing is, I've never...been in love before. I've never even told anyone I love them before. Because I just never felt it. But from the day we met, from the first time our backs accidentally touched in the subway, I feel this, this...  Maybe this is too much to say right now, but...I love you, Zoe. I really do.
stan		Zoe?
zoe		It's not.
stan		Sure it is.
zoe		I'm pregnant.
stan		Uh, I'm pretty sure it doesn't happen that fast.
zoe		I just found out.
stan		Pregnant? As in you're going to have a baby?
zoe		I know.   It's hard to explain.
stan		Well, who's it?
zoe		I don't know.
stan		What?
zoe		I don't know who the father is. I kind of know him. I just don't know his name exactly. It was sort of anonymous.
stan		Anonymous?
zoe		He's a donor. From a sperm bank.
stan		Seriously, what the fuck are you talking about? Sperm bank? What?
zoe		I know, this is so fucked up.
stan		When did all of this happen?
zoe		The day we met. That same day. And I didn't tell you because I didn't think there was any way I could be pregnant.
stan		But...why?
zoe		Because supposedly with frozen sperm it takes a few tries and...
stan		No, why would you do this?
zoe		Because I wanted a baby. And I'm almost forty, and I never met the right guy. I was afraid if I waited any longer it would all pass me by, and I'd miss my chance.
stan		I just told you I loved you.
zoe		Well....do you not now?
stan		You're pregnant.
zoe		Don't say it like that.
stan		You're pregnant.
zoe		Yes.   I'm pregnant.      I'm pregnant!
stan		I tell you I'm in love with you and you tell me your pregnant with some stranger's child?
zoe		Don't say it like that.     You make it sound dirty.
stan		I'm sorry. I...I'm stunned. I don't know what to say. What the fuck am I supposed to say?! This is great fucking news? Congratulations?! Why did you wait so long to tell me?
zoe		Because I'm freaking out, okay! I didn't know what to do. I made this big decision to do this and then I met you--
stan		Well, what am I supposed to do now? This isn't how it was supposed to be. This isn't what--
zoe		I'm sorry. I'm sorry, okay? Life isn't perfect. It's not all neat and tidy like your perfect family and your perfect farm and your bluegrass band. It's messy. It's fucked up. This is real life, okay? I'm sorry to break it to you.
stan		Sorry?   What's sorry going to do?
joan		Oh, I thought you were in your room. Sorry.  Everything okay?
stan		She's pregnant.
joan		Oh, dear God.
zoe		I don't know what to say.  Neither does Stan, who says nothing.    He runs his foot back and forth in the gravel.  ZOE  But, for what it's worth...I love you, too.  She puts the car in gear and pulls out.    Stan watches her go. His hands in his pockets.
mona		Come here.
zoe		 Okay.
zoe		It's been hard. I don't know if I was really prepared for this.
zoe		That's it?     That's...my baby?
zoe		What?   Wait a minute, what?
zoe		 It has two hearts?
carol		Twins!   That's fantastic!
lori		Why are you crying?   That's so lucky.
zoe		Yup.   That's me.   Lucky, lucky, me.
carol		Are you okay? Is it a financial concern? There are many programs--
zoe		No. I'm fairly loaded, actually. Used to work for Google.  I'm sorry. This is hard for me. I don't know if I can talk about it yet.
carol		Take your time. When you feel like sharing, we're here for you. We're all sisters here.  Let's give Zoe some space. When she's ready to talk, we're ready to listen. Deep, cleansing breaths, Zoe.
tabitha		I'm having a hard time. Luca keeps asking why he doesn't have a daddy, and I just don't know what--
zoe		 There's this guy. His name is Stan. And he's fantastic.
carol		I knew it!
tabitha		Uh...wasn't I just speaking?
carol		I knew you were with that guy!
sara		What guy?
lori		Zoe, this group is called Single Mother's By Choice.
zoe		I know.   I'm sorry--
tabitha		Um, excuse me. What about Luca? He's been really, really sad.
zoe		 Have you ever met a guy and you get butterflies and you think this is the kind of man who could take care of me forever? The kind of guy who makes you re-examine everything? Like, maybe I can be a stay-at-home mom and be barefoot and pregnant.
zoe		Carol, thank you. This has been really helpful. Just getting it all out and being with other women who--
carol		I'm going to have to ask you not to come back.
zoe		What?   Why?
carol		I don't think we can help you, and, quite frankly, you're against everything we stand for.
zoe		But, I thought we were all sisters.
carol		No.  Not you.  Do you know how long it took me to conceive? Five years. I had three miscarriages and spent every last dime on in-vitro. And Dana? The woman with the short hair?
zoe		Which one?
carol		The one with the really short hair?
zoe		Yeah, that doesn't really narrow it down much.
carol		She   just flew to Memphis to watch her   baby being born. Seconds after the   birth, the birth mother changed her   mind and refused to give it up.
zoe		 You're right.
carol		I like you, Zoe. We all like you. But you kind of need to figure out where you are.
nana		That man is obsessed with my ass.
zoe		I know.   It's kind of upsetting.
nana		He wants to take me on a cruise so that we can finally tie the knot. But, I don't know. What's the hurry?
zoe		You've been engaged for nine years.
nana		No reason to rush into anything.
zoe		Thanks.
nana		You must really love him, huh?
zoe		I guess I do.
nana		Honey, I'm sure he's wonderful, and I'm sure he loves you, too. But, you have put him in a really awkward position. Having a baby is a big adjustment for any couple. And you're not married. And he's not the father. And you've only been together a little while. And now you're having twins. And--
zoe		Please stop.
nana		I'm just saying, if he actually wanted to stay with you right now, he'd be the greatest man in the world, and, quite frankly, I don't think any man is that great.
joan		You know, people thought we were crazy when we bought this farm. 
stan		Having a baby with someone I barely know, someone else's baby...it's just not how I pictured it.
joan		I used to work on Wall Street. Now I wear boots covered in goat shit. This isn't how I pictured it, either. But guess what...I'm happy.
lori		Make sure you put your numbers down. I want to have everyone's number handy in case I go into labor early.
zoe		Hi, guys.
carol		Hi, Zoe.
zoe		I just wanted to apologize. I'm sorry I got into a relationship and wasn't honest with you guys, and I'm sorry I interrupted you, Tabitha. I hope Luca is doing better.
tabitha		Thanks.
zoe		 Anyway, I need partners in this, and I hope you'll take me back.
lori		It's a phone tree. I'm due next month, but my midwife thinks I may go sooner. I want everyone to be there. Are you in?
zoe		I'm in.
zoe		Hi.
woman		Hi.
twin toddlers		Hi./Hi.
stan		Hi.
zoe		Hi.
stan		Hi.
zoe		You said that already.
stan		You...look great.
zoe		Okay.
stan		Good.
zoe		You have a beard.
stan		Yeah, it's awful isn't it.
zoe		No.
stan		Don't lie.  Did I tell you how pretty you look?
zoe		I miss you, too.
stan		This whole time we've been apart, I've been trying to figure out what it is about you that I love so much. And I think that it's that a lot of people talk about doing things, but you actually do them. You're really kind of daring. How you quit your job and took over a pet store all because some asshole sold you a lame dog. You came and found me at the Farmer's Market even though the night before I acted like a total stalker...
zoe		There's something I need to tell you.
stan		Okay.
zoe		It's big. And you're allowed to take all of this back when I tell you.
stan		What.
zoe		It's not just one baby....I'm having twins.
stan		This is insane.
stan		Do you feel any kicking?
zoe		Sometimes.
stan		What does it feel like?
zoe		Like butterflies.
stan		Yeah.     I'm really sure.
zoe		Are you okay?
stan		They're so...perfect.      They look like real babies.
zoe		Yes.     Tell us.
stan		Two girls?
zoe		Two girls.
stan		Two girls!
woman		Hi.
chef		Here we have a yellowtail sashimi with ponzu sauce and pea shoots. This is carpaccio with shaved white truffles. And, finally, an heirloom tomato salad with fresh Buratta flown in from Italy this morning.
stan		Thanks, Sam. It looks incredible.
zoe		I can't eat any of this.
stan		Why not?
zoe		 Alcohol.
stan		Let me get Sam back. He'll make you anything you want.
zoe		I don't want to hurt his feelings. You go ahead. I'm fine.
stan		Well, what are you going to eat?
cashier		Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with cheese, four large fries, and a six piece chicken McNuggets?
zoe		Make that an eight, no, ten-piece McNuggets.  You'll have some, right?
stan		No.
zoe		 Ten-piece. Someone will eat them.
zoe		 Have you gotten to page 79 yet?
stan		No. I stopped reading when you ripped out one of my pages and used it as a napkin.
zoe		Says here many women in the second trimester experience an increased sexual appetite.
stan		Really?
zoe		Yeah.   I'm coming on to you.
stan		You have chicken in your hair.
mona		Why are you even working out? This is the one time in your life you're allowed to let it go.
zoe		Because look at me. I just keep getting bigger and bigger.
mona		Well, yeah. That's kind of how it goes.
zoe		I'm afraid I'm going to scare him away. I'm like one of those giant bouncy castles. Soon I'm going to take over the whole back yard.
mona		Come on.   He loves you for you.
zoe		I'm just getting kind of freaked out by everything. He asked me to go to this wedding with him. What kind of first impression am I going to make on all of his friends?
mona		Well, you're knocked up with some stranger's twins. So, already you're not exactly...
zoe		Not helping.
mona		Do you have anything to wear at least?
stan		Everything okay in there?
stan		Honey, whatever you wear is fine.
stan		You always look great. I've never seen you not look great.
zoe		Really?    You think?
stan		Do you have a shawl or something?
stan		You look smokin'.
zoe		Thanks, honey.
stan		Let's go.     We're super late.
zoe		Hmmmm...
stan		Why don't you sort of go in...head first and then turn around.
zoe		Shut up and push me.
stan		Push you?
zoe		Just do it.
zoe		I hate everyone.
zoe		Do you think he's telling everyone why I didn't go? I'm too much of a fat-ass walrus to go to the wedding?
bobby		You're not a fat ass walrus. You're pregnant.
zoe		I don't know. I'm just so emotional lately. It's the hormones.
bobby		You can't help it. Being pregnant sucks. You're emotional, and irrational, and you get back fat.
zoe		I have back fat?
bobby		No.  I'm just kidding.  Okay, yes. You have back fat.
zoe		How's Stan going to stay with me through this? I'm disgusting.
bobby		We'll go shopping tomorrow. We'll get some hip maternity clothes... whatever that means.
zoe		Look at me, Bobby.
bobby		What?
zoe		 Look at me. What do you see?
bobby		I see the most amazingly wonderful person I know.
olivia		Why aren't you dancing?
stan		I'm just about to go.    It's late.
olivia		Come on, one dance.
stan		I have a girlfriend, Olivia.
olivia		Never stopped you before.
stan		It's serious this time.
zoe		How was it?
stan		Boring.
zoe		Good.
stan		Excuse me?
zoe		It was one of my best features.
stan		You know what's weird?   I never knew your old ass.
zoe		It's kind of like this ass but way hotter.
stan		I also don't know what you really like to eat and what's just a craving, or when you start laughing hysterically and then crying and you say, this isn't me, if that's true because I don't really know the real you. All I know is the pregnant you.
zoe		That is weird.
stan		Or like how you're horny all the time? Is that you? Or is that pregnant you?
zoe		 That's me.
stan		When all of this is over, who will you be?
zoe		Hopefully, myself again.
stan		But...who is that?
zoe		This is my old ass.
stan		Why do you have a picture of your ass?
zoe		My college boyfriend took it. So, I guess in fairness, my ass doesn't look exactly like this anymore, but it's pretty close. It's held up.
stan		It's a nice ass.
zoe		You said you don't know the real me, so I thought I'd show you.
stan		Wow.
zoe		I know.
stan		You look like Anthony Michael Hall.
zoe		This period, as horrible as it was, made me who I am. I think every person should go through a hideously ugly phase. It builds character.  It also taught me that I should never, under any circumstances, have short hair and a perm again.
stan		Fifth place.
zoe		But I still look super happy, right? That's all because of Nana. Whatever I did, she thought it was the best.
stan		Why are you dressed like that?
zoe		Halloween. We were supposed to be a traffic light but Mona bagged out at the last minute and so Bobby and I just look like idiots. That's typical Mona, by the way.
stan		You look just like her.
zoe		This is the last picture of her that I have. She lived for a few more years, but we never took any pictures because she didn't want us to remember her like that. I was eight when she died.
stan		I...can't imagine.
zoe		She had a great laugh. And really soft hands. She used to rub my back before I went to sleep.
stan		Do you have any pictures of your dad?
zoe		My mother was in a coma for two years before the end. That's when my dad left her.
stan		Oh.
zoe		So...that's when he died.    To us, anyway.
stan		God, Zoe.    I'm so sorry.
zoe		 It's okay. It was an important lesson. That's when I realized that nothing lasts forever.
stan		Things can last forever, you know.
zoe		Not for me they can't.
stan		I'm confused. Why did you say you would come witness this birth in the first place?
zoe		I don't know. Seemed like a good idea at the time. I was trying to get back in their good graces. Go home. I'll meet you there. I don't want them to see you anyway.
stan		It's four in the morning. I'm not letting you walk home alone.
zoe		Fine. I'll just pop in, show my face and leave. Ten minutes, tops.
carol		Zoe, it's so nice of you to come, especially at this crazy hour.
lori		You're really one of us now.
zoe		Are you sure you're in labor? You're so calm.
lori		Oh, I'm sure.
zoe		Well, I just wanted to come and say a quick hi and good luck.
lori		You're not staying?
carol		You have to stay. Lori wants us all to be together for this.
zoe		Well, I really want to be here but...um, the truth is...actually I've been wanting to tell you guys for a while but, the truth is...
carol		 She's having a contraction.
lori		Okay.   What was it you were saying?
zoe		I'm back with Stan.
lori		Stan who?
carol		The farmer?
zoe		Actually, he makes cheese. He named a cheese after me. Isn't that romantic? Sort of?  Well, anyway, I'm not technically a single mother by choice anymore. So, if you want me to leave right now, I totally understand. I'll just walk out the door and--
lori		No, I really want you to stay.
zoe		 Oh.
carol		Listen, Zoe, if you're happy, we're happy. We'd love to meet him. Bring him to group any time.
zoe		Well, actually, he's downstairs, so I should probably get back to--
lori		Great.   Invite him up.
zoe		Oh, no, no, no...
lori		I'm not shy. I've been through this before. It's quite beautiful, really.
stan		Excuse me?
zoe		Just a few minutes.
stan		I don't know, Zoe.
zoe		You have to come up. They begged me. And truthfully, I'm kind of scared of them. Please?
stan		This is weird.
zoe		Good brownies, though. This one has peanut butter in it.
carol		Come on everybody, it's time. She's getting into the water.
stan		The what?
carol		Oh, it's a water birth.   Didn't Zoe tell you?
stan		What's a water birth?
zoe		I don't know. But just so we're clear, this...  Is not the real me.
stan		I'll wait here.  Zoe grabs another brownie and exits.
carol		Hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-hi-ya-ya.
zoe		 Wow. Wow. Wow.
carol		I know. It's amazing how the body can open up like that.
zoe		I'm just going to get some air. I'm feeling a little...
lori		Don't move, Zoe, you're my focal point.
midwife		Push, Lori. Push.
carol		You can't leave.   You're her focal point.
zoe		Can't she use someone else?
carol		She's in labor. You want to argue with her now?  DISSOLVE TO:
carol		Hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-hi-ya-ya.
zoe		Oh, Jesus.  What is...that?
carol		Sssshh. It's perfectly natural. Sometimes the bowels just let go.  Hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-ya-hi-ya-hi-ya-ya.
lori		 Don't move, Zoe, I need you! You're my focal point.
zoe		What does that even mean?
lori		I need to turn over.    Please!
jessie		Do it, Lori. We're here for you. We're all here for you.
carol		 Here comes the head.
jessie		We can see the head, Lori.
carol		There's so much hair!
zoe		 I don't think that's the baby's hair.
lori		I want to see the head. Get me a mirror. It's in the bedroom.
zoe		I'll get it.
lori		GOD DAMN IT ZOE, DON'T MOVE!!!!
stan		Excuse me.     Hello. I'm Stan. Excuse me.     Hi. I'm Stan.
lori		Look at all that wet, curly hair.
stan		 Let's get the hell out of here.
zoe		I can't.   I'm her focal point.
stan		What does that mean?
zoe		I don't know.
stan		Are you okay?
zoe		I don't know. Why am I wet?
stan		 I think it's the placenta.  Zoe's eyes roll back again and we...  FADE TO BLACK.
zoe		Wow. We really shouldn't have seen that.
stan		No.
zoe		I did mention that I barely know those people, right?
stan		Like forty times.
zoe		I feel the need to say it again.
stan		It won't be like that for us.
zoe		How do you know?
stan		Well, for starters, you wax.
olivia		Oh, hi.
stan		Hi.  You remember Zoe.
olivia		Right, hi.
zoe		What is that supposed to mean?
olivia		It's nothing.
stan		I told you it was serious.
zoe		 What the hell does, "sorry about last night" mean?
olivia		It's stupid. I was drunk and...
stan		It was nothing.
zoe		What was nothing?
olivia		You're having a baby? I didn't know you'd been together that long.
stan		Well, they're not mine...but, yeah, we're having a baby. Two actually.  On Zoe's look of shock we...  CUT TO:
stan		Nothing happened.
zoe		Get away from me.
stan		Nothing happened!
zoe		You said, "they're not mine."
stan		I didn't mean to say it.
zoe		How could you say that?
stan		I don't know. I was flustered.
zoe		Flustered?
stan		I'm sorry, I'm not exactly thinking straight. I've been up all night watching Orca give birth!
zoe		 "They're not mine?"
stan		 Well, I mean...technically, they're not.
zoe		You know, all this time you're trying to figure out who the real me is, but who the fuck are you?
stan		Zoe.
mona		Do you really think something happened with the berry girl?    They both said nothing happened.
zoe		Well, are they going to come out and tell me? And that's not even the point. He said, the babies weren't his. And if he says that, he thinks that. And if he thinks that, he's not really committed.
mona		So, now you run?
zoe		Why should I stick around for the end of the story when I know what it's going to be?
mona		Do you know the end of the story? Can't you just give him the benefit of the doubt? He seems like such a good guy.
zoe		You haven't even met him.
mona		Yeah, and don't think I don't know the reason for that. You were never going to see this through, Zoe. Never. It was doomed before it began. Just like all of your relationships. You get out before you get hurt.
zoe		You don't think I'm hurt right now?
mona		Every man is not your father. When are you going to realize that?
zoe		You don't know what you're talking about.
mona		I've known you for thirty years. I know you don't trust people. You and your grandmother, both. She's been engaged to Arthur for how long now?
zoe		Leave Nana out of this.
mona		She's never going to marry him. Just like you'd never marry Stan. No wonder you ended up with a sperm donor. He'll never let you down. It's your ideal boyfriend.
zoe		I used a donor because I wanted a baby.
mona		I'm sorry.     I went too far.
zoe		Because I wanted to have a family. Because Nana is the only one I've got and she's eighty-four years old. And then it will just be me. So, yeah, you went a little too far.  Zoe leaves Mona at the table.
zoe		Guess it's just you and me again.
zoe		What.
stan		It's Thursday. We have a doctor's appointment.
zoe		There is no "we", Stan.
stan		Come on, I didn't mean to say it, and that's not how I feel.
zoe		I made a mistake trusting you.
stan		Don't say that.     That's not true.
zoe		You're not good for me. You made me think I needed you, and I don't.
stan		So that's it? Because of one stupid, asinine thing that I said, it's all over? This is how it ends?
zoe		Yes.  This is how it ends.  I don't know why you're so surprised. I told you, nothing lasts forever.
zoe		Good.
zoe		It's hard to believe we're in the home stretch.
zoe		Oh.    Uh, no. He won't be here.
zoe		No.    He's just...out.
zoe		It's back to just you and me now. We've come full circle.
nana		Me?
zoe		Yeah.   Is that okay?
nana		Of course.
zoe		Good.   `Cause you're all I've got.
nana		What do I have to do?
zoe		I don't know. It will be a c-section, so, basically, just stand there and try not to faint.
nana		I can do that.
zoe		Thanks, Nana. It means a lot to me that you'll be there.
nana		Are you kidding me? I've been waiting my whole life for this.
zoe		Holy shit, is he dead?
nana		Sleeping.
zoe		How can you tell?
nana		He's been like that all morning.    I wore him out last night.
zoe		Wow.   I did not need to know that.
nana		We were celebrating.  We finally set a date.
zoe		Excuse me?
nana		So, we'll put the band here and the dance floor right here.
zoe		I can't believe you're getting married. What made you change your mind?
nana		All of a sudden it just hit me, what am I waiting for? I love him. He loves me. What am I so afraid of?
zoe		Wow.   This is...really big news.
nana		You don't seem happy.
zoe		No, I am. It's just...it just makes my situation seem all the more tragic. You're getting married and here I am...
nana		Zoe.
zoe		Don't worry. I'm fine.    I'm really happy for you.
nana		I'm worried about you, honey.
zoe		I'm fine.
nana		I just don't want you to make the same mistakes I made. I've been alone for over thirty years now, and that's too long. Sometimes in life you have to forgive and move on.
zoe		Are you talking about my father or Stan?
nana		Both, baby.
bobby		 I see trees of green, red roses too. I see them bloom for me and you...
mona		This song always makes me cry.
zoe		Me, too.
mona		Is it happy or sad? The words are happy but the song is so sad.
zoe		I guess it's both.   Happy and sad.
bobby		 I see skies of blue and clouds of white. The bright blessed day, the dark and sacred night...
mona		I'm sorry about the things I said.
zoe		I know.
mona		It was really shitty of me.
zoe		It was. Especially because you were right.
bobby		 And I think to myself...what a wonderful world...
zoe		I don't want to be alone forever, Mona.
mona		Then don't be.
customer		Is this new? The Zoe?
stan		Yeah. This is the first week it's been out.
customer		Can I have a sample?     What's it like?
stan		It's...very stubborn, overly suspicious and distrustful of men.
customer		Huh?
bobby		Come on, you old maid.
zoe		No.
bobby		Dance with me. One dance.
zoe		Forget it.
bobby		Fine. But it doesn't mean that I won't dance with you.
zoe		What?
bobby		Haaaaaay.
zoe		Go away, you freak.
bobby		Smack it, Bitch.
old man		Damn it. Not again.  Nope. Not me.
zoe		I think my water just broke.
zoe		I'll drive.
nana		You're in labor.   You can't drive.
arthur		I'll drive.
nana		You don't have a car or a license.  You drive.
bobby		We're in Queens. I don't even know what side of the road they drive on here.
zoe		Will someone please just drive me to the fucking hospital?
mona		This was my surprise for after the wedding, but let's hit it.
bobby		This works.
nana		Are you okay? Remember to breathe. Breathe in, breathe out, breathe in.
mona		Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, hee-hee.
nana		 Hoo-hoo. Hee-hee...
zoe		Please stop. It's getting really breathy in here. I'm fine.
bobby		What about me? I have amniotic fluid on my Gucci tux.
arthur		Who needs a drink?
nana		 Bobby...
bobby		What?
nana		I don't know if I can do this.
bobby		What?!
nana		I can't go in with her.
bobby		Well, I certainly can't do it.   I don't do vaginas.
arthur		Don't look at me.
nana		Help me, Bobby.
bobby		Nana, pull yourself together. This is the biggest moment of Zoe's life, and you can't let her down. I'd slap you right now, but I'm afraid your teeth would fly out.
zoe		Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, hee-hee, hoo-hee.
bobby		Hey, girl.     How ya doing?
zoe		Okay.
bobby		Good.  So, I really don't want you to worry, but Nana just passed out at the nurse's station and is now down in the ER getting stitches.
zoe		What???
bobby		Everything's under control. Good thing we're at the hospital, right?
zoe		Where is she?
bobby		Get back in bed. All is well. Arthur's with her. Now, on to bigger and better...who do you want to be your birthing partner? Your choices are me or Mona.
zoe		I don't know.
bobby		We're going to get through this, okay? You just have to really think about it. Who do you want with you in the delivery room?
zoe		Taxi!
cabbie		You're not an escaped mental patient, are you?
zoe		Kind of.
zoe		Ow.   Son of a bitch, that hurts.
olivia		Are you okay?
zoe		Fuck off.
zoe		Stan!
fred		Whoa. I've had nightmares that started like this.
zoe		Stan!
stan		Zoe?
zoe		Stan!
stan		Are you okay? Don't run!
zoe		I can't help it!
stan		Are you all right?
zoe		 Great. I'm great.
stan		Why are you in a hospital gown?
zoe		I'm in labor.
stan		What?   What the hell are you doing here?
zoe		It's you.
stan		What?
zoe		Nana's my birthing partner, but she passed out and needed stitches, and Bobby asked me who I most wanted with me, and...it's you. It's only you.  I don't want to be alone anymore. I love you. You don't know how much I love you.
stan		I've been in love with you since the moment you stole my cab.
zoe		Hee-hee, hoo-hoo, it was my cab, hee-hee, hoo-hoo.
stan		I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I just love you. I love you so much.  Let's get the hell out of here.
zoe		Yeah. I think I really need to go to the hospital now.
stan		Let's go have our babies.
woman		Hi.
zoe		Hi.
stan		Hi.
zoe		Who knew you were such a romantic.
stan		Well, it's the anniversary of our first date. Where else would I take you?  Cheers.
zoe		Incredible. Wouldn't change a thing. Well, except for the part where you dumped me.
stan		And the part where you dumped me.  Girls...Mommy and Daddy were stupid.
zoe		 Yes, we were. Yes, we were.
stan		The first time we held hands was in here. It started out as a high- five, but then I strategically turned into a hand-hold.
zoe		How do you remember that?
stan		We both agreed that we were totally sick of weddings and hated when people wrote their own vows.
zoe		That's right. I remember that.
stan		So...I hope you won't hold it against me.
zoe		What?
stan		I promise to love you even though you still eat chicken McNuggets in bed. I promise to name cheeses after all of our children no matter how embarrassed they are by it. I promise to always check out your ass when you walk away, and I promise to love you more tomorrow than I do today, which doesn't even seem impossible...
****Dialogues from script :Backdraft.txt****

older kid		You're doing it wrong.
younger kid		Shut up.
older kid		You're doing it wrong.
stephen		It doesn't go like that.
brian		Who asked you?
stephen		If you do it like that it'll open in the fire. Then you'll get burned and DIE.
dennis		Who's going to die?
stephen		Brian. He's not doing it right, dad. He never does it right.
dennis		 Well, let's have a look.
dennis		Your brother's right. If you don't fasten these correctly they could open and you'd get burned.
stephen		And DIE!
brian		You wouldn't let me die, would you, Dad?
dennis		McCaffreys are smarter than fire, Brian.  How 'bout lunch, huh?
stephen		Fireman shit?
dennis		Hey, what's with the mouth? Where'd you grow up, a barn?
stephen		Firehouse.
dennis		Cute.
dennis		 Never fails...
dennis		Big deal?
axe		Medium deal.
dennis		Want to come along, Brian? Watch the old man earn his keep?
stephen		 Dad!
dennis		You've come along a dozen times, Stephen, give your brother a chance. We'll be back in a few minutes.  How 'bout it, sport?
brian		Sure!
dennis		Hit the button, Brian.
dennis		Stay near the truck.  And keep an eye out for us, huh? We're short handed today.
engineer		Don't stray too far, little man.
brian		Dad...
axe		Get us some backup! We need some goddamn backup!
chief fitzgerald		Is this a joke?
brian		If it was a joke, sir, you'd be laughing.
chief fitzgerald		You walked out on this academy six years ago. One week to graduation. You think we forgot that? You think I did?
brian		I want another shot, Sir.
chief fitzgerald		 Look, everybody remembers your old man. Being his son, all you had to do was breathe to graduate here. Dead Hero Father Rule. But you blew us off. Why should I take you back?
brian		If you remember, sir, my test scores were in the top --
chief fitzgerald		-- I don't give a damn what your test scores were, maybe you could have been a good firemen, but you had your shot.
brian		I need another one, sir.
chief fitzgerald		Sorry, but it's out of my hands. Try again next year.
brian		No, it isn't out of your hands or you wouldn't even have met me. If I push you have to let me back in. Dead Hero Father Rule. Sir.
chief fitzgerald		 Even if you graduate this academy, you've still got nine months of probation. That's hard duty, son. If you don't really love this job, it'll kill you.
brian		 See you Monday. Sir.
chief fitzgerald		 Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that I certify that Candidate Class number 322, having successfully completed all academy requirements, are hereby graduated to the Chicago Fire Department.
brian		Completely out of control.
tim		What the hell are we waiting for?
candidate		Hot off the presses, guys. Station assignments.
brian		A beer, Willy!
willy		Well, if it isn't the littlest McCaffrey.  Sorry, there must be something wrong with my eyes. I keep thinking that's a fire department uniform.
brian		It's in my blood, Willy.
willy		Really. Well, let's have a look at what else was "in your blood". I always look forward to getting these, they make such a nice collage for the bar... "Assistant Director, Sales, Aspen Snowmobile Tours..."
brian		Didn't offer the kinda growth and challenge I need.
willy		Uh huh. And "Pioneer's Pride, Mobile Log Cabins". That was in your blood about six months wasn't it?
brian		Management were pin heads.
willy		"Laguna Jamming, Custom Surfboards"?
brian		Coffee sucked.
willy		And just this year, "Brian's Sound Spectrum". Your own company even. Big step.
brian		I was ahead of my time.
willy		You know, I've got a perfect little spot here for "Brian McCaffrey, Fireman"...
tim		Aren't you even curious?
brian		Engine 115, right?
tim		 How'd you know? These are supposed to be sealed.
brian		Lucky guess.  And a case of scotch to a captain in station assignments.
tim		You crooked son of a bitch. Why 115?
brian		Lots of fires. They promote faster there. Take a look at the last Lt.'s list, half the guys on it came from that battalion. Gotta think about your future, Timmy. 115's the station.
tim		Ah man, if you're gonna bribe your way into a station, why not 17 with me and your brother?
tim		Hey, that's my cousin's company! C'mon! Let's go!
brian		 Mrs. Viatkus...
jennifer		Brian.
brian		 Jennifer.
jennifer		You're back.
brian		You look great.
jennifer		Thanks for calling.
brian		Uh... I've been sorta keeping a low profile... the academy... I graduated today.
jennifer		Huh.
brian		So... I see you're still in the neighborhood.
jennifer		Not quite. Just visiting. I live in Lincoln Park now.
brian		Yeah? What have you been up to?
jennifer		I work for city hall.
brian		Really? No kidding.
jennifer		What, you think I just dried up and blew away when you left? The world does turn once in awhile Brian, even without your permission.
tim		Don't want you overheating, Brian!
tim		Okay okay! Uncle!
jennifer		You've certainly matured.
brian		Well, if nothing else, it's nice to know we can still be friends.
jennifer		I don't want to be your friend, Brian.
tim		Let's go, man!
tim		 That way.
driver		Tim! You crazy motherfucker!
tim		What'cha got?
driver		Box alarm. Walton Ave.
tim		We'll meet ya.
tim		 Man. Something sure put a crimp in his evening.
brian		Backdraft.
stephen		Well, look what we have here. Nice costume. Rent it?
brian		I want to thank you for coming to my graduation, Stephen. It was a great inspiration to me.
stephen		So you're going to fight fires now, huh?
stephen		 See ya around, little brother.
brian		Not likely.
stephen		 One case of scotch, you're getting cheap in your old age, Brian...
shadow		If you stare any longer Stevie, I'll start charging you admission.
stephen		Got a cause?
shadow		Are the glory boys actually showing interest in Investigation's work? I may have a stroke.
stephen		The glory boys just want to finish their report so they can go home.
shadow		They're gonna have to wait a few days on this one.
brian		 Hey, you forgot... this.
coroner driver		We always leave something for the dogs.
brian		Hey, Sean. What's goin' on, man?
brian		It's Uncle Brian. Y'know.
brian		 "Spinach? We don't need no stinking spinach". Remember?
kid		Mom! Mom!
brian		Hellooo...
helen		Brian?
brian		Hi, Helen. Man, you look great.
helen		You look like... Brian.
helen		'Bout written you off. How long have you been in town?
brian		Four months.
helen		Four months?
brian		I know, I know, Should'a called. I've been really busy. I joined the fire department.
helen		Oh Brian...  You guys... you really know how to put each other through it, don't you?
brian		That's Sean? Jeez, he's a giant.
helen		Yeah, you'd be surprised what three years can do to a kid.
brian		Sean, come on out, man. What, you forget your favorite uncle?
helen		Stephen told him you were killed in a hot tub accident.
sean		 Dad was kidding, Mom.
brian		Well that's two things to strangle Stephen for. Where is he, anyway?
helen		 Stephen's not staying here now, Brian. He moved out last April.
brian		Oh, man, I'm sorry.
helen		You guys ought to try picking up a phone once in awhile.
brian		Hey.
brian		I talked to Helen...
brian		...Man, I thought dad's boat was finally retired to the family graveyard. Don't you worry about falling out of this thing?
brian		I like what you've done with the place.
stephen		It's comin' along... want a beer?
brian		Been ripping off fire stations?
stephen		It's old stuff Adcox gave me that the department was going to throw out anyway. Still good enough though for this tub.
brian		Bachman Turner Overdrive?  ...Buffalo Springfield?... Stephen Bishop? Oh man...
brian		My God, an actual operating 8-track.
stephen		What, you've never seen one before?
brian		In the Field Museum once.
stephen		It works.
brian		It worked when you were in sixth grade.
stephen		People actually used to pay you for this?
brian		Millions, Stephen -- And sexual favors.
stephen		Sheep don't count.
brian		Yeah? What about Laura --
stephen		That was never proved.
stephen		Why'd you come here, Brian?
brian		I wanted to know why you messed with my station assignment. I mean, is this really gonna have to one of those big brother -- little brother "you broke my GI Joe and I'm still pissed" games?
stephen		 What is it with you, man, huh? How do you manage to keep coming up with new and amazing ways to screw up? That scotch bullshit? Am I really supposed to believe you came crawling back home because you suddenly felt heart strings moan for the family biz? You were bankrupt, man.
brian		Hey! You don't know me --
stephen		I know you cold, Brian. The scary thing is, you probably could have faked it for awhile. But you see, in this job there's no place to hide. Isn't like selling log cabins. You have a bad day here -- someone dies. And that's not fucking good enough. Want another beer?
brian		So that's it? Big bad brother's gonna ride my ass till I cough blood?
stephen		Big bad brother is going to treat you like any other probie -- that I don't think is going to make it.
brian		There's only so much technology can do.  Thanks for the beer.
stephen		Thanks for the speakers.
brian		Y'know, I told myself a million times I didn't want to be a fireman. I said bullshit to that line about tradition and family legacy. I know I split, and I know how you felt...
stephen		Yeah, you know. You know what it felt like.
brian		I gotta do this, Stephen. I gotta know.
stephen		I think you're gonna find out, Brian. Don't be late tomorrow.
stephen		You're too late, probie.
brian		 Goddamn it, Stephen...
axe		Why baby McCaffrey, how ya doin'?
schmidt		 You know this rug rat?
axe		Know him? I practically raised him.  And he never calls, he never writes...
brian		I'm Brian.
grindle		I'm sorry.
grindle		Boys, I do believe we have a barbecue...
grindle		 I hate it when we gotta fucking go look for it.
stephen		 Call in another alarm. We're gonna need some back-up.
axe		 Oh these moments do try me...
stephen		 Be gentle.
schmidt		It's only rock 'n roll, kid.
stephen		Hey, probie! How 'bout it, huh?
stephen		You're doing it wrong.
stephen		 Stay beside me.
axe		Wash it to the windows?
stephen		No, we'll hit the son of a bitch head on.
axe		It's gonna flash, Stevie. We gotta get behind it.
stephen		Nah, listen to it. It's a pussy. It'll just steam on us. It won't flash. Go high in the ceiling.
stephen		 Let's go!
stephen		Ya love it, probie?
brian		I'm in heaven, Lt.
stephen		Hook us up to a stand-pipe.
stephen		Jesus, how 'bout man, huh? We're gonna loose this!
stephen		Hey Otis, is it...?
schmidt		 Yeah.
stephen		Goddamn it, where's our backup? Where's the second-in companies?
schmidt's voice		Sorry, man. John Wayne time.
stephen		 Dig in!
stephen		Dig in, goddamn it!
stephen		You're gonna love this.
santos		Help... Oh God...
grindle		You go, we go.
brian		Hey!
nightengale		Sorry man, I thought you were dead.
pengelly		 Stephen! BC's on the radio. Says they think a civilian got left behind downstairs.
stephen		Adcox! Take Tim and do a search.
stephen		Don't you fold on me now, man.
stephen		Clear the hose for me.
brian		Hey, I think it's coming from a different staircase.
brian		I got one!
brian		I got somebody! I got somebody!
brian		Is she... Is she alive?
paramedic		I'm afraid you're a little too late with this one.
grindle		Sorry to hear about the mannequin. I heard you two were close.
brian		Shit...
stephen		 You all right?
brian		Yeah. Fine. I'm a little busy right now.
stephen		Y'know, you got an awful short memory for direct orders. I told you to stay beside me.
brian		-- C'mon, Stephen.
stephen		-- You split the team, man. And what was that crap with the standpipe? You'd think you and a hose were never introduced before.
brian		Goddamn it Stephen!
stephen		-- I told you to stay next to me!
brian		-- I was doin' it! I was up there fucking doin' it. You don't know, man, you don't know what I did!
stephen		What you did was drop the ball, Probie. Get that right.
pengelly		 Hey! Stevie! They're callin' for ya.
stephen		Bet 30,000 dollars a year and twenty two days a month off sounded pretty good twelve weeks ago, huh?
swayzak		 Roger, Paul... How's it going, guys?
reporter		Another fire in this district. Getting to be Cinder Alley up here.
jennifer		 You used that last week.
axe		 Hey! Probie! We're still workin' here, man.
grindle		 Stephen man, what's going through that guy's head? Takin' it on in the first room... this shit's happening too often. It could've flashed. Should've flashed.
axe		But it didn't. Guy knows.
grindle		Guy's lucky.
axe		Hey, baby McCaffrey. First one's the clincher. You did okay.
brian		My Lt. might have something to say about that.
axe		Ah, everybody screws up some, Brian. You're working for the toughest Lt. on the job. Saw him once pick up a probie he thought was moving too slow and throw him into a burning building. It's just bad luck you're family.
brian		 John, when you're in there... in the fire... do you ever see...
stephen		 C'mon ladies, let's roll some hose...
brian		 -- Never mind.
shadow		Alderman Swayzak.
swayzak		Investigator Rimgale.
shadow		I need to get in the trunk.
shadow		Awful expensive shoes to be wearing at a fireground, Alderman. But then I guess you haven't been to too many fires.
jennifer		I wanted to talk to you about Alan Seagrave's death. We still haven't gotten a fire report from your office.
shadow		You'll have an answer as soon as I do.
swayzak		People are asking how a prominent taxpayer got stuffed through the windshield of his own car. They're asking me.
jennifer		--The point is, Investigator, you haven't even told us yet if the fire was accidental. We're starting to get the feeling your office is dragging out this case to embarrass the Alderman because of his fire dept. reorganization program --
shadow		-- You mean his firehouse closing program, -- Don't you?
jennifer		We'd just be very disappointed if it turned out your office was playing politics.
swayzak		-- Because I'm not. I care about this city, and I care about this department --
shadow		 Alderman, I have a remarkably uncomplicated job. To decide if a fire's arson, and if so catch the pain in the ass doing it. But to be honest, if my methodical investigative methods just happen to muck up the campaign of certain mayor wanna-bees, well, I guess I can't say I sleep any less peacefully.
swayzak		I wish I could just fire the son of a bitch.
stephen		Hey! Swayzak!
stephen		We almost lost a whole company up there, Swayzee buddy. Isn't any back- up since you closed '33. And we really appreciate it, the guys and me. Honest. I know you've got my vote for mayor.
swayzak		Look Lt., I'm on your side. If there's a problem, please, work with our task force to fix it.
stephen		Oh yeah, your famous task force... three guys have already died this year because of the cuts made by your "task force"...
grindle		Stevie, c'mon man...
swayzak		You see that funny glow that's starting to blink in the corner of your eye, Lt? That's your career dissipation light -- and it just went into overtime.
stephen		If anybody's light's gonna blink, it's yours.
axe		You're in firemanland now, Swayzak. Do yourself a favor and just walk away.
brian		This is your city job?
axe		That's Franny. She likes firemen.
stephen		Tim, fill out the alarm card.  Clean the pipe poles, wipe down the ladders and hang some hose.
grindle		That's The Thing. You can't stay unless he likes you.
brian		Have you guys got something against dalmatians?
brian		Do you have to do that?
tim		 Could you believe that fire? Man! First day! There I was, Adcox and me, pullin' that lady right out of the fire's fuckin' throat! I love it here -- No surround and drown for this company. Fighting 17th! Goddamn Stephen's amazing. You see how he took that fire by the balls? I'm gonna be that good some day, you watch.
tim		Y'know what Stephen said to me, right when all the shit was coming hard? "You never know till the moment the fire stares you down if you're just gonna do this job or be great at it".
brian		Ah man, is he usin' that line now on you? What, you think he made that little gem up? Jesus Christ, I used to have to listen to my old man use that every morning.
grindle		-- C'mon! C'mon! Go! Go!
grindle		No! C'mon! This way!
brian		What's going on?
pengelly		Dinner, Probies. Get started.
stephen		Better be good.
santos		Or we feed you to The Thing.
axe		Gentlemen, please... As 17's official toastmaster --
santos		And bullshitter.
axe		Thank you, Santos. Did I happen to mention that you were cut out of my will?  And to Brian, who's own contribution was both more beautiful and less likely to sue.
axe		Y'know, when I heard that both McCaffrey brothers were going to be assigned together here, well, my heart was filled with... a sudden desire to transfer.  So raise a glass, lads. To funny- looking Tim, and the McCaffrey brothers, who despite years of getting on each other's nerves have managed with great effort... to still be pissed off at each other. Gentlemen!
company		 Fuck you!
stephen		Bye, boys.
schmidt		 We'll keep it warm for you.
stephen		Clean the toilets.
stephen		Okay, company dismissed. -- See ya guys tonight at Fitzgerald's retirement party.
stephen		You want a ride?
brian		Thanks.
stephen		Brian --  -- See ya tonight.
stephen		Hey.
brian		Hey.
stephen		I gotta change the view...
grindle		Heard you didn't make the list for captain, man. I'm sorry...
brian		 With grenadine, right?
jennifer		When I was twenty.
brian		Oooh, very sophisticated. Having fun?
jennifer		Look, I'm not the same girl who had nothing better to do than wrap her legs around you on a Saturday night. This isn't about fun. I'm working here.
brian		Carrying Swayzak's notebook?
jennifer		Let me tell you something. Martin Swayzak is going to be this town's next mayor.
brian		Yeah. Swayzak. Humanity's last hope. How can you work for that guy?
jennifer		Why do you think Marty came here tonight? Because he cares about your department. You don't know how hard he works. You don't know about his programs helping West Side --
brian		-- All I know is that his programs are getting firemen hurt.
jennifer		Bullshit. Marty's plan is only about efficiency. I've got two cousins on the job, you think I'd work for him if I didn't believe in it?
jennifer		 Marie... how's little Kevin? Really? Seen the polls? This is the year...
jennifer		-- The thing that really makes me angry is the way your union has --
brian		What was that? Oh man, you have picked up a few moves since John Paul II Boulevard.
jennifer		Yeah, well I like to think I'm just a little past hanging out on JP II watching the Irish pick fights and Litwalks barf in the planters.
brian		I seem to remember some pretty good nights on JP II.
sally		 Yuck, what a scumbag.
axe		 Fuckin' city transferred Sally three months ago out of parking violations into Swayzak's office. Now I gotta pay my own goddamn tickets and she's stuck with an asshole.
santos		Pay more?
sally		 No, but there's more exercise -- being chased around a desk.
grindle		Aw, I don't believe this shit.
schmidt		Somebody get a shovel! You seen this, Stephen?
brian		What?
tim		 "Probationary Fireman Brian McCaffrey, on his very first fire, showed the kind of bravery and courage of a veteran firefighter when he risked life and limb to double-check a burning floor alone, emerging victoriously with Anna Rodriguez, a seamstress for the North Shore Clothing Company... McCaffrey first gained prominence as the subject of a 1972 Pulitzer Prize winning photograph taken at the scene of his father's death..."
grindle		Whadda we gonna do about this?
stephen		Y'know, I think it's a union bylaw that if a guy gets in the paper -- especially if it's bullshit -- he owes the company a drink. In fact...  ...I'll have a double. On the hero.
brian		 What's going on?
swayzak		Brian McCaffrey, right?
jennifer		Brian, this is my boss, Alderman Swayzak.  Brian's a big fan of yours.
brian		Yeah. Big fan.
swayzak		And I'm a huge fan of what you did to save that woman, Brian.
brian		Uh, I think there's been a mistake. I didn't save that woman.
swayzak		No need to be modest, Brian.
brian		No, you don't understand, I saved a mannequin.
swayzak		-- That really was incredibly work you did. You and your brother, fighting fires together, helluva image, isn't it? You must feel lucky to be assigned under his command.
brian		Every little boy's fantasy.
swayzak		Brian, let me come to the point. I'd like to offer you a job.
brian		I have a job.
swayzak		This one's still with the fire department. One of our best investigators, Don Rimgale, is working on a very difficult, visible case right now. We think he could use another pair of hands and you're exactly the kind of guy I want representing us: An authentic hero from a traditional firefighting clan.
brian		Yeah, we got all kinds of traditions -- like dying young.
swayzak		Not every job in the fire department comes with a tombstone, Brian. This could be a great opportunity to move... beyond a fire engine.
brian		Thanks anyway, Mr. Swayzak, but fire engines sorta run in my family. Politics don't.
jennifer		Boy, took you all of thirty seconds to blow that.
brian		C'mon Jennifer, he's just another North-Side jag-off with a mouth.
jennifer		Brian, do you always have to be so stupid? Think about your future for once.
brian		So now you suddenly care about my future?
jennifer		Look, I didn't mean to take a piece out of you back there, I just thought you'd call when you came back. You didn't and...  Don't blow it just because of this garbage between us.
brian		Hey, sorry if I made you look bad in front of your boss. But I'm not gonna be a poster boy for him, I'm trying to do something here. There's five hundred smoke eaters in this room that do that stuff for real every day. Tell Swayzak to talk to one of them.
pengelly		Aw man, how can she dance with that guy?
schmidt		I hate that guy. He's a dispatcher. I hate his voice.
stephen		Whatever...
pengelly		I mean, I know women have gotta bang somebody, but why that son of a bitch?
schmidt		Hey Stevie, he's an asshole...
stephen		Uh, Helen, I wanted to talk to you a second about Sean...
helen		Stephen, I'm kinda busy here, can we talk about this later?
date		How ya doin', Stephen?
stephen		Jackson.
stephen		 What's wrong with right now? He's your son for christ's sake. He's --
jackson		Hey, Stephen, what about that dumb ass brother of yours, huh?
stephen		...Yeah?
jackson		Savin' a mannequin... How fuckin' stupid can a guy get?
stephen		You can't talk about my brother like that...
helen		 Here we go...
jackson		You're crazy, man!
stephen		Leave me alone!
axe		Goddamn it, Stephen, lay off!  You stupid dumbshit, you never know when to fucking quit, do you? You ever wonder why your career's in the fucking toilet? Why you're gonna be stuck a Lt. for life?
stephen		No.  I need a drink.
brian		You don't need a drink, man. You need to get outta here...
jennifer		 Ah those McCaffreys... just hate leaving a party with anyone left standing...
stephen		I'm okay... leave me alone...
brian		So you got a 'roid going with Jackson or what?
stephen		Nah, he's nothin'. It's just sometimes... sometimes you just gotta punch somebody out, y'know?
stephen		I don't think I can get up.
stephen		Look, Brian, a photographer. Maybe I can get on the cover of LIFE magazine, too.
brian		C'mon, let's crawl home.
stephen		...Adcox, those guys...they don't get it... it isn't the goddamn promotion... or dad... I'm not my old man, y'know? No fire's gonna get me... I don't give a shit about being a captain... it's just... it's just they don't trust me anymore...  ...they don't trust me anymore...
stephen		If you'd get out of my fuckin' way. I could take my own goddamn shoes off...
stephen		You're such a pain in the ass... You've always been a pain in the ass...
stephen		Jesus, it's too damn bright in here... Like a goddamn spotlight... I'm goin' blind...
brian		 This?
stephen		Yeah... too bright...
stephen		They don't know... they don't know what I hear in there...
stephen		...This boat could be okay, huh?... Take it out weekends... Sean 'n me...
stephen		 Hey! Knock it off!
axe		 Maybe you should have gotten more sleep last night.
tim		This everything you wanted?
woman		 Can I help you guys at all?
stephen		Nah, we just about got it.
woman		 Sally must be finally ironing your shirts.
axe		It's just new. Couple'a shifts and it'll be as thrashed as the rest.
woman		I'm sorry...
axe		It's okay...
woman		I miss him... I just miss him, y'know?...
axe		This job... This fuckin' job sometimes... To buy it trying to go the extra yard, man, that's one thing, but to buy it just because there wasn't any back-up... it's bullshit...
stephen		Yeah, it's bullshit. So what? Fuck Swayzak. Fuck 'em all. We don't go into fires for them. You know that. Christ, you taught me that.
stephen		You know Knowlton pretty well?
axe		Yeah...
stephen		 Kind of an asshole, wasn't he?
axe		Biggest in two battalions.
stephen		 We're gonna be okay, man...
schmidt		Is she going to get the divorce?
santos		 Hell if I know, man.
washington		Hey, Pengelly, you made the captain's list!
stephen		 Alright... Go!
stephen		Go!
stephen		That isn't a football, probie. Get it on your shoulder.
brian		Having fun, fireman?
stephen		You're not breaking any records, Brian.
stephen		Your shoulder. Like this!
stephen		Come on! Pick it up!
stephen		Run, damn you!
stephen		Roll the hose.
brian		What, are you kidding? By myself?
stephen		You heard me.
brian		What, is it the stairs? Christ, I'll let you win next time.
stephen		 You got a problem with drilling, probie?
brian		No, Lt., I don't have a problem with drilling. But let's just have one drill. Not one for the company and one for me.
stephen		Roll the hose.
brian		Goddamn you Stephen, I'm not gonna quit. You hear me!
stephen		Well, thank God for fires...
mother		 My baby! My baby's still up there!
battalion chief		Hang on a sec, Stevie, we got a hoseline coming.
stephen		Don't take that kind of shit from it! Don't let it know you're scared! Come on!
stephen		Ready?
brian		Christ, Stephen, let's wait for the hose team...
stephen		Listen to it, Brian... Jump when I say... It won't get us.
stephen		Now!
santos		They think she's gonna live...
stephen		You okay?
brian		I waited... I would have fucking waited...
stephen		That's not what it's about, Brian. The point is there was a kid in there. And what if there'd been two? I went in because that's what I do. It's my way. It's dad's way. It isn't everybody's way.
brian		Dad's way? Where did he tell you that? In a fucking seance?
stephen		You said you wanted to know something, Brian. What did you learn today?  What do you say, Brian, huh? Time to move on?
brian		You're right, Stephen... You win... You're the best, man...
secretary's voice		 Brian McCaffrey on line two for Jennifer.
jennifer		I'll take it in my office.
swayzak		 Go get him.
jennifer		Brian?
brian		I've been thinking about what you said the other night... If the offer's still on the table, I'd like to talk about it.
jennifer		 Marty's a good man, Brian.
brian		Yeah...
shadow		 ...So stop me if I get this wrong... The fire's almost out... You're upstairs on the unburned floor checking for heat. You've been told by your Battalion Chief, your Captain, by me, not to do anything up there until ordered. But now the itch starts, and all of a sudden comes the Glory Boy Flash: Hey, I'm a hero. Heroes don't just stand around. So on your own you decided to punch out a window for ventilation. Was that before or after you noticed you were standing in a lake of gasoline?
shadow		You could've crispered half your company with that little stunt, but more importantly you wrecked the physical evidence I use to prove it's arson. You've made my day longer, Probie. Go home and think about that.
brian		Uh, I'm Brian McCaffrey. Your new assistant.
shadow		Your Dennis' kid.  I work alone.
shadow		Are you still here?
brian		Get used to me, Inspector. I'm not going anywhere.
shadow		Then go find a corner. I don't want you in my way.
brian		I think we should get something straight here. I was assigned to this office by the city.
shadow		Look, I knew your father, he had a helluva reputation on this job. But that don't mean you get any slack. Swayzak sends you down here, okay, I gotta eat you, that's the rules and I got nothing to say about that. But Swayzak or no, you live with me. Step out of line, and I don't care who knows you, I'll swing the hammer.  You think you're the first?
brian		Where are you going?
shadow		Pest control.
ronald		Shadow.
shadow		How ya doin', Ronald. Staying comfortable?
ronald		Didn't think you'd make it.
shadow		Wouldn't miss this for the world, pal.
ronald		 Who's this?
shadow		He works for me.
ronald		Is he a fireman?  I like firemen.
shadow		You like everybody, Ronald.
ronald		Brian McCaffrey...  Oh this is really a treat. Brian McCaffrey. Lost a dad to the animal, huh?
brian		 Hey, do I know you?
shadow		You don't know him.
ronald		I know you.
brian		 What the hell are you talking about my --
shadow		Knock it off. Now.
ronald		Tell him about me, Shadow?
shadow		Ronald here likes telephones. Used to tape wooden matches to the bell striker and wrap it in cotton. Came up with a whole little thing there, didn't you Ronald? When you got bored, what did you do? You just started making calls... mostly day care centers and retirement homes, wasn't it?
ronald		Did he tell you how we finally met?
shadow		Nobody cares, Ronald.
ronald		Oh, but it's a good story, Shadow. You're depriving our famous young friend here...
ronald		It was on State Street, right?... Just your basic warehouse torch for the owner. Cakewalk. But the animal... turned on me... 'Ol Shadow here, he shows up -- whole place is going like hell -- my hair, my hands... could've just let the animal take me -- but Shadow, he's a good camper, so he tries to pull 'ol Ronald out. Guess he didn't notice the tub of phosphorous next to me...  Notice you're still a little shy about rolling your sleeves up, Shadow. Show him your stomach yet?
man		...All right, the parole board has received Mr. Bowland's fitness report, his ID-44, endorsement from his section warden... Dr. Norris?
woman psychiatrist		As supervising psychiatrist I would describe Mr. Bowland's progress as remarkable. Taking into account his disability and the six years already served, I recommend parole.
man		Mr. Bowland, do you regret your crimes?
ronald		Yes. I understand now the pain I caused.
man		If released, will you commit these crimes again?
ronald		I won't.
man		Do you consider yourself ready for society?
ronald		Yes.
shadow		Sure Ronald? You're ready alright.
ronald		Absolutely.
man		 Excuse me, Mr. Rimgale.
shadow		Excuse me.  What do you do with little girls?
shadow		What do you do with them, Ronald? Huh?
ronald		 -- Burn them.
shadow		And old ladies?
ronald		-- Burn them.
shadow		And the world -- the whole world.
ronald		 -- Burn it all.
shadow		See ya next year, Ronald. Gotta go.
shadow		 Hey kid, c'mere -- At least make yourself useful.
engine lt		We were lucky with this one. Could've taken out the whole complex, but the explosion blew out most of the flame. Good for us.  -- Not so good for him.
shadow		Turn this over.
brian		What do you want me to do with --
shadow		-- Shhh.
brian		 What are you listening to?
shadow		You sneaky little son of a bitch... Hide and seek... Come on, tell me what I want to know...
shadow		 Get that couch out of the way.
shadow		 Find me some glass.
brian		Glass?
shadow		Do we have a language barrier here? Glass.
shadow		 It started in this room. Took its time, hung out... but the air ran out. It couldn't breathe. So it was snuffed. But it wasn't dead... still all that trapped heat, lying low, waiting for some sucker to open the door and give it that one gulp of air...
brian		-- Another backdraft.
shadow		Finish coat burned away... Severe spawling of rough coat...
shadow		That's our ignition point. Dig it out. Carefully.
shadow		 Temperature in this room was about 2000 degrees, but copper wire in outlet is melted, which requires 5000 degrees. An accidental short in the plug could of created a spark of 7000 degrees, hot enough to melt the wire and start a fire.
brian		No it couldn't.
brian		I mean you'd be right -- with normal wire. But that's gauge ten in that plug -- industrial stuff. Who knows why they put it in here -- but it won't melt at less than 12,000 degrees. And no natural spark short of lightning gets that hot.  In another life I was in high-end electronics.
shadow		 Have outlet analyzed for any traces of flammable accelerants.
brian		Don't mention it.
brian		Hey, Tim.
tim		 Brian.
shadow		 Check the wall for burn patterns.
brian		 So, you surviving without me?
tim		There's no replacement 'cause of your boss' cuts, if that's what you mean. If someone else goes out on an injury we're really screwed.
brian		Swayzak's not my boss.
grindle		 Ooooh, like the tie. Love the tie.
brian		Grindle, scrape down that wall for me, huh? I would myself, but the tie 'n all, y'know...
santos		Uh, Brian, if you're lookin' for smoke patterns, there's some good ones over here.
brian		Yeah? Where?
grindle		 Little to the right... further... further... Right behind there. Hey, could you hand me that pike pole?
grindle		Sorry, maybe that wasn't it after all.
stephen		That's just about enough, guys, okay?
schmidt		See ya around, Brian.
axe		 Wake up, kid.
stephen		Here. Dry yourself off.
stephen		Look, you are sorta making yourself fair game.
brian		Thanks for the insight.
stephen		Brian, look --
brian		Just leave me alone, okay?
stephen		Hey, Bri... Rimgale's okay. I don't get half the shit he's talking about, but then everybody says the same thing about me. Who the hell knows?
helen		Stephen, what are you doing here?
stephen		Fixing my roof.
helen		It's not your roof anymore.
stephen		Where's Sean?
helen		He's got piano lessons.
stephen		Oh yeah? How's he doing?
helen		He's going to be a fireman.
stephen		Give up, babe. You can't fight it. Believe me, my mom tried...
helen		 Stephen, you gotta stop just showing up on the roof like this.
stephen		I just wanted to, I don't know, not exactly apologize for the other night -- especially since I don't remember much of it --
helen		-- You remember.
stephen		Yeah... I just thought I should say, I don't know, something.
helen		The great communicator.
stephen		Sorry I hit Jackson.
helen		He deserved it. He was born deserving it.
stephen		He treats you okay?
helen		Okay.
stephen		I treated you better.
helen		You treated me like shit.
helen		You want some coffee?
stephen		Coffee? Nah, I gotta go.
helen		What's wrong, Stephen?  How's Brian doing?
stephen		He's out.
helen		I know he's out, but how's he doing?
stephen		Y'know, I treated him better than any other probie I ever had. He probably hates my guts, but I did the best thing for him. I made him finally look in the mirror.
helen		Ah Stephen, that's what this is really about, isn't it? You always have to be right.
stephen		Hey, I'm the first one to admit when I'm wrong.
helen		Yeah? When was the last time?
stephen		In a fire? Never.  Look, I'm his brother. I care about him, y'know? He was going to get himself killed. Maybe not today, maybe not in a year, but it would've happened. And I couldn't -- I just couldn't...
helen		You can't keep being his father...
stephen		You know what I realized today? I can't remember my dad's face anymore. There's pictures of him staring at me everywhere I go, but the guy behind them... he's gone...
stephen		I'll see ya around, Helen.
ricco		Okay, Alan Seagrave and Donald Cosgrove...
ricco		...Both deaths due to close encounters with stationary objects; office door for Mr. Cosgrove, '89 Porsche for Mr. Seagrave. No non-relevant traumas. No significant blood toxicology. Attitude of both trajectories consistent with explosions.
ricco		They ran the residue you scraped from both crispers' front doors. It's a combination of plumber's putty and rayophene gum. Burns almost completely away when you light it.
shadow		Putty? On both doors?
ricco		There's something else kinda interesting...
ricco		See this?
ricco		Guess he didn't leave home without it.
ricco		Anyway, down here, take a look...
shadow		McCaffrey, hold this for us.
brian		Uh, I don't think that's in my contract...
shadow		I just re-wrote your contract. C'mere...
ricco		Jesus Christ, he isn't gonna try to sell you insurance, lift him.
ricco		 See that patch of shirt? We wondered about the discoloration so he ran a spectro. On a lucky shot we picked up some traces of Trychticholorate. Nobody around here had ever heard of it.
shadow		Trychticholorate? Alright, it's an absorption catalyst in toxic waste accidents. It's pretty rare, they stopped making it a couple'a years ago.
ricco		Probably got in Cosgrove's clothes in a gas state from the fire.
shadow		What the hell was it doing in the fire?
ricco		That's your job.
shadow		I asked you to hold him, not feel him up...
shadow		Read.
brian		"Trychtichlorate is a binary structured --"
shadow		-- Go to the bottom. Under heat properties.
brian		"During heat episodes of 2000 Kelvin or higher, Trych breaks down and dissipates. Will consume magnesium".
shadow		Ever burned magnesium? It's so hot it takes water molecules and BAMM!
shadow		Son of a bitch tears 'em apart just to eat the oxygen. Wouldn't take much at all to melt ten gauge wire. Problem's burnt magnesium leaves a powder trace -- unless you could find something that would eat its residue.
brian		Trychticholorate. Then Swayzak can announce Seagrave was a murder.
shadow		Look, it isn't proof, okay? Someone may have put the chemical in the outlet, but we found it as a vapor in Cosgrove's clothes.
brian		And the putty around the door?
shadow		Even if it was used to seal the air off, that doesn't explain why someone would go to the trouble of a backdraft. A gun's a helluva lot easier
brian		But the right guess on this is arson.
shadow		I don't guess.
brian		Some people say you don't do much of anything when it comes to this case.
shadow		I don't work for them, either.
brian		Arson.
jennifer		Straightest answer your department's given me all week.
brian		Hey.
jennifer		How's it going?
brian		Boss and I are up to about three words an hour.
jennifer		 There's another fund-raising party tonight. Marty'd really like you to come.
brian		I don't know, I'm kinda swamped here.
jennifer		I could use a date.
brian		Yeah? Well, maybe I can fit it in...
rimgale's voice		McCaffrey! Come here!
brian		 Call ya back.
shadow		Take the top off. Go ahead. Take it off.
brian		Jesus!
shadow		That's it! Oh, that son of a bitch, he's different, goddamn it! You see what this tells us, huh? Our killer doesn't love fire!
brian		What?
brian		But he killed these guys.
shadow		But he could have killed everybody there. The firebreaks kept it from spreading in the wall. The backdraft blew out the flame. That's it. That's the reason.
brian		What reason?
shadow		Why backdrafts. Whoever fried Seagrave and Cosgrove went to a helluva lot of trouble to make sure they died by fire, but also made sure the fire blew itself out.
brian		That's why the sealant on the doors... So what have we got, a torch with a conscience?
shadow		No, we have a stone killer trying to make a point.
brian		Are you going public with this?
shadow		No. Do that and I guarantee you'll scare him off. I don't want him running away.
jennifer		Hi.
brian		 So are you dating your boss or what?
jennifer		If you weren't at least the 300th person to ask me that, I'd probably be pissed.  Boy, you sure know it's a man's world sometimes...
brian		Sorry.  Are you dating anyone?
jennifer		You think that's really any of your business?
brian		Well, you did invite me here.
jennifer		Marty did.  But I wanted you to come to.
swayzak		Mr. McCaffrey...
brian		Nice boat.
swayzak		It isn't mine.  Let's get a picture.
swayzak		 What does he do again?
jennifer		How's the job going?
brian		Okay.
jennifer		Boy, Rimgale's as slow as a snail, isn't he?
brian		No, he's more of a dinosaur. Guy's not a dummy, though. He's juggling alot of balls on this one.
jennifer		Yeah, but it doesn't take Albert Einstein just to figure out if these guys were killed by accidents or not.
brian		Jesus, give him a break. There isn't enough proof yet to go public. Sure, we found some chemical shit we think somebody dumped in the plugs to torch 'em, and we've maybe figured out why backdrafts, but you can't rush this stuff. Not 'till it's locked.
jennifer		But Rimgale's probably going to come around to arson.
brian		In a dinosaur kinda way, yeah.
jennifer		Save me.
brian		Thanks for the invite.
jennifer		Got anything to drink in there?
brian		Oh, there might be something stashed away for emergencies.
brian		This is one of the oldest fire stations in the city. Lotta tradition locked up in here. What do you think?
jennifer		Homey.
brian		See that trap door up there? That used to lead to the hay loft when they had horse-drawn engines. It was pretty different then... but kinda the same, y'know?
jennifer		Do you miss it?  You seem like you do.
brian		When I came back, I knew more than anything else that I wanted to be a fireman.
jennifer		Then why did you quit?
brian		I wanted to be a good one.
brian		Old firehouse trick.
jennifer		So show me your fire truck.
brian		Well, our specimen here is your basic standard issue piece of primary suppression equipment. This area is the pumping panel, which controls the rate of liquid insertion into the hose.
jennifer		Uh huh.
brian		This is a six inch playpipe, cast bronze to keep it firm during hard flows.  ...And this is the hose bed.
grindle		Jesus Tim, if you're going to kill yourself at least wait till the fire, it's better P.R.
jennifer		Tell me about the playpipe again...
stephen		Where is it?
security guard		Don't know. There's alarms going off on three different floors.
stephen		Wonderful.
tim		How do we know if the floor's going to be on fire?
stephen		If the doors open and it's hot, don't get out.
stephen		It's here.
grindle		These high-rise gigs give me the creeps.
axe		Let's wait for a back-up, Stephen. We're early on this one, it hasn't even broke out yet. We're one short as it is with Brian gone.
stephen		Want to learn something?
tim		Yes sir!
stephen		Adcox, go with Pengelly and check the other side.
axe		It isn't safe, man. Don't go splittin' us up. Not with this one.
stephen		-- What the hell's the matter with you? You always check the other side. I haven't got time for bullshit right now, okay? We got a job here.
axe		Let me take the lead, Stephen...
stephen		Goddamn it Adcox! Just do your fucking job!
stephen		 ...Listen to it... you can tell when a wall cracks which way it's gonna jump... you can hear the doors breathe if they're hot...
jennifer		What's going on?
jennifer		What are they doing?
brian		Excuse us.
stephen		 Lotta smoke, but it isn't rolling... that means it's hiding... staying sleepy... one of these doors...
stephen		 Easy... no hurry... you're not going anywhere...
stephen		Did you check the door for heat, Tim?
stephen		Tim?
stephen		Tim!
axe		Oh God! Oh God no!
stephen		Hey, Stevie.
brian		Is he...
axe		He's alive.
brian		Do they think he'll pull through?
grindle		They're not saying.
brian		I should have been there.
nightengale		None of us should have been there, Brian.
brian		You had to do it, didn't you?
stephen		...Not now, Brian.
brian		Had to take on another fire bare- handed, huh? Had to be fucking myth man in there instead of looking out for your probie. Is that what happened? Is it, Stephen?
stephen		I had that fire. He didn't listen!
brian		He didn't listen? He was a fucking candidate! He was your responsibility. He shouldn't have been there in the first place, Stephen.  You burned him.
stephen		Fuck you.
shadow		Goes on about how the break was made through the discovery of "chemical traces" and a "behavioral link". Oh, and Swayzak's quoted saying the chief investigator is closing in on the torch and expects an arrest "any time".
shadow		Get your stuff and get out.
jennifer		 Brian. What's wrong?
brian		You told Swayzak about our arson lead. It's all over the fucking news.
jennifer		I didn't know it was a secret. There aren't supposed to be secrets between the city and its investigators --
brian		-- Bullshit! You knew what I told you wasn't ready for the papers --
jennifer		Will you please keep your voice down, there's people --
brian		-- You could have scared the son of a bitch off. We may never bust him now. All for a couple's political points.
jennifer		I was doing my job.
brian		 Yeah? And just how much of all this has been "doing your job"?
jennifer		 Let me ask you something, do you really think Marty had you assigned to arson because of your firefighting skills? Who the hell are you kidding? I was there, remember? I saw you and your brother --
brian		Leave Stephen out of this --
jennifer		Oh yeah, he's the real fireman.  Who are you? Just another probie working for Swayzak --
brian		-- I work for the city.
jennifer		You knew what we were asking you to do. Don't suddenly pull out a conscience now. The fit isn't right.
swayzak		Mr. McCaffrey... Keeping busy?
brian		Yeah. In fact, I just dropped off a letter to the Times explaining how yesterday's arson announcement was a fabrication by your office. They loved it. And you know what? You were right, my family background in firefighting gave it weight.
jennifer		Oh Brian...
stephen		He's gonna live. Maybe not much else, but he's gonna live...
swayzak		Inspector.
shadow		Alderman.
shadow		I usually have breakfast first.
swayzak		When are you going to catch the prick that's doing this, Don?
shadow		"Don?"
swayzak		Don't you have any leads at all?
shadow		No Marty, I don't.
shadow		We still haven't found a connection between the victims.
swayzak		Jesus, open your eyes! Seagrave, Cosgrove, and now Holcomb -- fried in a goddamn high-rise!
shadow		Holcomb? I didn't know the name of that victim had even been released yet.
shadow		Is there a connection between them, Alderman?
swayzak		Just catch the son of a bitch.
shadow		What the hell are you doing here?
brian		I'm finished with Swayzak. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I just want to help catch the guy that burned Tim. You gotta give me another shot.
shadow		I thought 'ol Marty was acting a little strange... And he's right.
brian		Backdraft?
shadow		The backdraft was set somewhere in there. It fried Holcomb when he opened the inner door. But the outer door held... and waited for Tim...
shadow		So find me the fire.
shadow		You're thinking too much of the building and not enough of the ghost.
shadow		In a word, Brian, what is this job all about?
brian		Fire.
shadow		It's a living thing, Brian. It breathes, it eats, and it hates.
shadow		The only way to beat it is to think like it. To know that this flame will spread this way across the floor not because of the physics of flammable liquids or heat convection, but because it wants to.
shadow		Some guys on this job, fire owns them. It makes them fight on its level. But the only way to truly kill it is to love it a little, just like Ronald.
voice		What the hell are you guys doin'?
shadow		We're the fire department, lady.
woman		Well color me stupid, I always thought the fire dept. put out fires.
shadow		 You work here?
woman		Till yesterday. What do you think the odds are that a non-refundable ticket to Paris survived this?
brian		Somewhere between zero and no way.
woman		Shit. What a mess.
shadow		You seem real broken up about Mr. Holcomb.
woman		Jeff Holcomb? The Darth Vader of tax accountants? He was a sleezeball. Hopefully a sleezeball that carried some insurance.
brian		Go talk to the building owner.
woman		He was the building owner.
brian		Our book lists the owner as Dekom Trust.
woman		Don't investigators come in adult size?
grindle		Stevie? Rimgale's here to see you.
stephen		I'm busy.
grindle		He just wants to --
stephen		-- I'm busy goddamn it, okay?
stephen		What, they don't knock on your planet?
shadow		I still haven't gotten your fire report, Stevie. On Tim.
stephen		I'm working on it.
shadow		I deal with this stuff every day. But a fireman... you never get used to it.  What happened up there? He was a candidate. Did he pay attention? Was he listening?
stephen		...He wasn't listening to the right thing...
shadow		What do you listen to, Stephen?
stephen		You don't know... nobody knows...
shadow		I might.
stephen		It knows us. This one knows us.
shadow		 I need that report, Lt.
stephen		Tim-went-to-the-fire-and-now-he- doesn't-have-a-face.
brian		 Alan Seagrave, Donald Cosgrove, and Jeffrey Holcomb.
shadow		Son of a bitch. They knew each other.
brian		So Seagrave and Holcomb were accountants...
shadow		And Cosgrove. Coppers figured he laundered money for the mob before getting into real estate. They weren't very high on Seagrave, either.
brian		Nice bunch of guys.
shadow		Who all ended up wearing candles for faces...  Swayzak's up to his ass in this somehow. Guy can barely hold a drink in his hand, he's so scared.
shadow		We need to get a look at his files.
jennifer		Hi.
brian		Hi.
jennifer		We still talking?  Look, I'm sorry about the other day --
brian		Swayzak knows something about the guys that were murdered. I want to know why he keeps that hidden.
jennifer		I don't know anything about it.
brian		You could check. It'd be in his files.
jennifer		 Do you know what you're asking me to do?
brian		Yes.
jennifer		Y'know, four years ago I was working in a bakery. Two years ago I was bringing Marty coffee and he didn't even know my name. I run that office now. Marty believed in me and I believe in him. You want me to just throw that away?
brian		Your boss is lying, Jennifer.
helen		Stephen?
stephen		I'm sorry... I... couldn't sleep...
helen		What's wrong?
stephen		I...  I miss you.
stephen		Cook and I are almost finished here. Have a seat.
helen		Stephen... I... can I talk to you a second...
stephen		Look, I'm sorry I --
helen		-- No, that's okay. It's just Sean...
stephen		-- He's gettin' good on those eggs. And y'know, he told me he actually likes the piano.
helen		I don't want to confuse him, Stephen.
helen		It's... It's just things have changed... you're the same, Stephen, but things are different now... you've got a son... you're the best at what you do Stephen, you always were, but you scare me now...
stephen		 Hey... Sean-man, your dad blew it. I forgot I had to work this morning...
sean		Aw dad, c'mon...
stephen		Next time, huh? We'll do it up big. Promise.
sean		Okay.  Mom's crying, dad.
jennifer		 Marty?
jennifer		Jesus Christ, Marty, what's going on?
swayzak		Leave me alone.
jennifer		We've come a long way together, Marty. I've staked my whole career on you. And now you're sneaking around this office, leaking things to the papers behind my back...  Is there something you're not telling me about these deaths?
swayzak		No.
brian		Jennifer?
brian		What is --
jennifer		Just take it.
brian		I'm sorry.
jennifer		That's a dumb thing to say.
brian		You're right.
jennifer		Goodbye, Brian.
repairman		What the hell do you do with this thing?
shadow		This is the copy of Swayzak's manning report that was released. Everybody on this job knows it's bullshit but we could never argue with the numbers. They're all airtight.
brian		Yeah? Airtight?
brian		I've got three different drafts of the same report -- with different numbers that're all over the place. Looks like they were just making it up as they went along.
shadow		Did a little check on the consulting firm that wrote the report. They did exactly one job -- Swayzak's manpower study. It's not even really a company. No employees, no directors, just a PO Box.
brian		Then who wrote the report?
shadow		It had to be someone who knows numbers. Some kind of fancy accountant. But what's the connection?
shadow		I think it's time Mr. Swayzak and us had a little heart to heart talk.
shadow		Hello? Swayzak?
shadow		Uh... I sorta got a problem here...
shadow		Well Brian, I guess you can say it's arson now...
brian		How ya feeling?
brian		Did you pull me out?
shadow		Yeah.
brian		Did I say thanks?
shadow		No.
brian		Just wondering.
shadow		I hate hospitals. You're so... so goddamn useless...
brian		So what do you want me to do?
shadow		I've been lying here hours... just thinking... We're close...  We're not looking in the right place, Brian. This one knows us and we're not looking in the right place...
ronald		Well, Mr. Life magazine. Come all this way just to say hi?
brian		I'm close... but I can't get who it is...
ronald		So you came to me...  Well, this is going to be an interesting afternoon after all...
ronald		Okay, here's the deal. I'll tell you a story, you tell me one. Fair?
brian		Who's doing this?
ronald		Your first question should be who isn't. It isn't a spark, Brian. Not enough damage. And an insurance pro? Where's the profit margin?
brian		Then who --
ronald		-- No no, your turn. Tell me a story.
brian		I don't have a story.
ronald		Sure you do.
ronald		Famous story even. Straight burn. Just an engine and truck first on scene. What did you feel, Brian, when you first got there?
brian		What?
ronald		You gotta tell a story too, Brian. It's fair. C'mon, don't think too hard --
brian		I... I thought it was great. I loved it. It was nothing to these guys... medium deal.
ronald		Right. Light smoke, low roll. Couple'a civilians hollering -- medium deal. So young fireman Adcox and Captain McCaffrey, they head up stairs, get out on the fire escape -- McCaffrey does the ballsy jump across... what were you feeling, Brian?  Okay... Guard!
brian		-- I wanted to be him. Right then I wanted to be him more than anything...
ronald		 Very good, Brian. -- About your report here. The way to a torch's heart is through his tools. That's how you know him. It's the way he talks to the fire. And to you if you listen.
brian		The outlets.
ronald		That's a probie answer. You're smarter than that, Brian.
brian		Trychticholorate.
ronald		Good. -- So our two heroes, Adcox and McCaffrey, they go back inside. Only there's another fire in there nobody sees. And it took your dad, didn't it Brian? Did you see him burn?
brian		Who the fuck is doing this?
ronald		After it took your dad... the fire... did it look at you Brian? Did it talk to you?...
ronald		You see, our world's aren't so different...
brian		 Who's doing this?
ronald		Think, Brian. Who doesn't love fire, but knows it better than anyone else? Who's around trychticholorate 24 hours a day?
brian		Oh Jesus Christ...
ronald		Not such a far walk after all, is it, Brian?
brian		Oh goddamn it Stephen...
stephen		Hey, what are you doing here?
brian		Just... Just wanted to say hello...
stephen		So hello.
stephen		Well, long as you're here you can help clean up a little. I've got a guy coming to look at this in a few minutes.
brian		You're selling dad's boat?
stephen		Yeah, it's just another memory in my life right now. And I got way too many of them...
brian		I really should get back. There's... there's something I'm supposed to do.
stephen		Yeah? What have you got to do?  Look at you. Look at your face. All the things you must be thinking. Man, you must really hate my guts. Well, you know what? It's okay.
brian		Look, Stephen, maybe we can talk about this some other --
stephen		-- Okay, so you don't like me. You don't like everything I've done. What, because I wasn't such a genius the way I raised you? Jesus Christ, dad was gone, what was I supposed to do? You tell me, what the fuck was I supposed to do?!
brian		It's okay, Stephen, I --
stephen		-- I tried, y'know? Helen's right. I don't have all the answers, but goddamn it, I've got some.  Look, you're gonna do what you have to, and maybe I shouldn't have gotten in the way. I'm your brother, not your father. Go on. You gotta go somewhere? Go...
brian		I saw it.
stephen		Saw what?
brian		When dad died, I saw another fire...
stephen		Everybody did.
brian		I saw it before it got them. I tried to yell, but... He asked me to look out for him. And I didn't do it. I let him die.
stephen		 ...Jesus, you been carrying that around for twenty years? For christ's sake, you were seven years old! You think he could have heard you in there?
brian		I hate him so much sometimes, Stephen. You don't know how hard it was for me to put that uniform on...
stephen		Maybe I do.  People can change Brian.
brian		Sometimes right when you're looking at them.
brian		Oh God, Stephen, what's going on with you?
stephen		I don't know, Brian... I don't know...
brian		 -- Stephen, wait a minute. I gotta talk to you. It's Adcox, he's --
stephen		-- What are you doing here?
brian		I saw Adcox's back! I saw the burn! I put it there! Jesus Christ, Stephen, he's been killing people!
stephen		I know.
brian		How do you know?
stephen		I knew when you came looking for the chemicals. Looking for me.
brian		-- What were they doing there?
stephen		They were for the fucking boat, Brian.
grindle		We gotta roll, Stevie...
stephen		I'll be there.
grindle		They're waitin' man.
stephen		I'll be there, goddamn it!
stephen		 Anything else?
brian		What are we going to do about this?
stephen		I'll handle it.
brian		We gotta go to Rimgale, Stephen.
stephen		I'm his Lt. He's my responsibility. I'll handle it. Me.
brian		Oh, Christ. Stephen...
brian		Where are they? Where's 17?
captain		On the roof.
brian		Stephen --
stephen		Brian?
axe		Aw man, Stephen, listen to me...
stephen		-- What the fuck were you thinking, huh? Burning people? You're a fireman.
axe		They were killing firemen, man. When Sally showed me what was in Swayzak's files... They were my friends, I had to do it. I had to do it for the department.
brian		Did you do it for Tim?
axe		 That was an accident! Jesus Christ, why did you have to go in there so fucking early? Why didn't you listen to me!
axe		You gotta let me finish --
brian		Just come down, John. Just --
axe		-- Shut up! Your dad would fucking puke if he saw how you've shit on his department!
stephen		-- Knock it off!
axe		 -- You can't let him turn you against your friends, man --
brian		-- He killed people --
axe		-- You know what Swayzak would do to the department if this got out? --
brian		-- Stephen, this is bullshit --
axe		-- What he would do to your dad's department? You gotta let me finish it --
brian		You're his Lt., Stephen...  Are you gonna handle it? Are you Stephen?
stephen		Shut up!
axe		...What do you want me to do, Stephen? Talk to me. What am I supposed to do?
stephen		 There's a fire. We've got a job here. Let's get on with it.
grindle		Shit... It's going! Clear the roof! Now!
stephen		Jesus Christ Brian, run! Run goddamn it!
stephen		You crazy son of a bitch, why couldn't you stay behind a desk where you belong?
brian		"You never know till the fire stares you down if you're gonna be --"
stephen		Oh shut up, huh?  I think I broke my goddamn arm...
stephen		You stupid son of a bitch! What the fuck are you doing!
axe		Stevie... I...
stephen		Let it go! Goddamn it let it go!
axe		I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
brian		Stephen!
stephen		You go, we go.
brian		NO!
brian		You're gonna be all right, man.
brian		Hey! Over here!
stephen		Wait for another hose team...
stephen		Wait for the goddamn hose team!
brian		No... No more.
stephen		That's my brother! That's my brother goddamn it!
brian		Another time, friend.
stephen		 You are such a pain in the ass...
stephen		Don't tell them about Adcox... Don't let 'em...
brian		I'm sorry... I'm sorry I thought... I won't.
paramedic		 Oh shit, give him some lidocaine, now. Now.
stephen		 Who's your brother?
paramedic		His pressure's fading -- push some adrenalin.
brian		Oh man, don't you die... Don't you die...
brian		Goddamn it don't you die now... Not now!
paramedic		V-fib!
shadow		In the Chicago Fire Department the alarm code 3-3-5 signifies that the company has returned home to quarters. We will now ring out that code to welcome home John Adcox and Stephen McCaffrey...
shadow		Your brother was a good man.
brian		Yeah.
shadow		Another couple of good men get burned up for their city? Is that how it's going to read?  You're the only one that knows.
brian		Like it never happened...
shadow		Want to help me with something?
shadow		Mr. Swayzak! How ya doin'?
swayzak		 Investigator...
swayzak		I'm a little busy right now --
shadow		This'll only take a minute. There's two cops outside that want to ask you about this --
shadow		This is just a guess of course, but I think they're gonna want to know why you secretly paid Donald Cosgrove, Jeffrey Holcomb and Alan Seagrave to create a phony manpower study.  You guys'll wait, right?
brian		See that glow flashing in the corner of your eye? That's your career dissipation light. And it just went into high gear.
shadow		-- Brian.
shadow		Don't keep looking over your shoulder for the ghost. It's gone now.
brian		I think your boss is going to need some spin control.
jennifer		I quit two days ago, Brian.
brian		 What'll you do?
jennifer		I don't have the slightest idea...
brian		I'll see ya around, huh?
jennifer		It's a small town.
brian		You're doing it wrong.
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Boys.txt****

bad boys		Revised Draft by
bad boys		FADE IN:
rear		Where the rest of the gang waits.      NOAH, KUNI, FERGUSON, and CASPER. All dressed in black      like Fouchet, except for ANDY. He stands and shows off      his Miami PD uniform. His English is poor, yet he's got     a big, happy-to-be- along grin on his face. ANDY How do I look? Like the real thing, yeah? FOUCHET Step back and lemme get a good look at you.
3.		A7   CONTINUED:                                                  A7 BURNETT No chest hair. And packin'. DESK MANAGER I'm sorry.   But our guest list is private. LOWREY Oh, didn't they say? There's going to be party! It's B.Y.O.B.O. --  The B.O. stands for baby oil. BURNETT Maybe you can come. Get off after you get off? All three of them laugh. DESK MANAGER Well, now that you mention it.
4.		B8   BEDROOM                                                      B8 Lowrey tackles the first dealer to the floor. A LATINA girl screams. Lowrey unfortunately looks and takes a hard fist across the ear from the dealer. Angered, Lowrey swings his pistol up underneath the perp's jaw and knocks him through the bathroom door. Lowrey cuffs him to the sink. Meanwhile... Back to:
burnett		 Nice backup. LOWREY What? We TILT UP as POLICE HELICOPTER flies overhead.
5.		11   EXT. MIAMI'S OLDEST POLICE STATION  - NIGHT       11 The HELICOPTER ROARS low over the rooftops toward the causeway bridge.
6.		17   EXT. POLICE STATION - ALLEY - NIGHT                           17 Kuni finds the conduit he's looking for, splices it, cuts into it with a Makita battery-powered circular saw, then attaches a handheld high-8 video machine and starts the video feed. The unit is strapped to the conduit.
fouchet		Then do him, now!
7.		23   INT. POLICE STATION - QUICK SHOTS - FERGUSON - NIGHT        23 One by one he moves backwards through the various levels of locks, torching each to look as if they'd entered the evidence room from inside the PD station. Meanwhile --
theresa		Quincy, never-you-mind. And take those things off in the house! Jill, stop with the book and eat your breakfast. 
theresa		I don't want him knowing about it either! Gives him ideas.  'Scuse me, Captain. I think you mean to say, 'Get the fuck down here, please?' Burnett automatically pulls on his jacket, hugs the children as Lowrey hangs up.
theresa		Not so fast. You were going to take the kids to school today, remember, hon? I have a job interview... Lowrey rolls his eyes.
13.		40   CONTINUED:                                                 40 INTRO - SANCHEZ AND RUIZ SANCHEZ Let's see. There's Sleepy, Grumpy, Sneezy, Happy, Bashful... Now, who could we be missin'? RUIZ Could it be... Dopey? Both laugh hysterically, while: LOWREY If it ain't the leftovers from Miami Vice. Fashion casualties, lost somewhere in the eighties. BURNETT And the women really go for that. Really, they do. As Burnett and Lowrey duck the tape, they note a very groggy O'Fee over in the corner being attended by a paramedic team. He's still out cold. An oh shit look passes between the two partners.
burnett		Because maybe this guy knows if you kill a cop the whole department'll get up his ass hard and fast. SINCLAIR And who knows that better than anybody else? Cops. BURNETT You're not sayin' this was an inside job. Cops wouldn't pull this shit. 
burnett		What about the air conditioning? HOWARD So what about it? BURNETT 
16.		42   INT. HEROIN LOCKER - INSIDE SHAFT - BURNETT                42 Burnett crawls up with some help from Lowrey below, stalling the oscillating fan with his cuffs and crawling through. The first thing Burnett notices are the track marks from the bobsled cutting through a coating of dust. LOWREY Anything? BURNETT Yeah. I got some weird track marks in here. Then Burnett notes a manufacturing stamp at the joint. It reads: ORONA AIR CONTITIONING SYSTEMS, INC.
lowrey		Sorry to come around only when I need something. MAX Forget about it. I owe you the rest of my life, Mike. Lowrey just gives her an "oh please" look. MAX Don't be lookin' at me like I'm getting all sentimental. LOWREY Hey, I didn't open my mouth. Listen, there's some major, major ill shit happening down at the P.D. Lotta heroin involved. There's gonna be a lotta cash involved, too. Gonna be some happy motherfuckers around that wanna party. MAX So you want me to check around? LOWREY Just make a coupla calls. See what's what. Don't be doin' no wild shit. Just call me if you hear something.
lowrey		The air conditioning business has been good to Orona. Lowrey rings the bell.   They wait.   No answer. BURNETT Well, we can leave a note or we can break and enter -- LOWREY Wait. Hear that? I thought I heard Orona beating his wife.
lowrey		 Jai-Alai. Dog track. Lotta bookies. Phone numbers. BURNETT Lemme guess. Guy does the air conditioning contract for the P.D. He'd have the plans. LOWREY He trades the plans for his paper and gets popped by the perps. BURNETT Works for me. Now can we go? I'm gonna puke.
lois		Matronly, in her flowered dress and bare feet, she carries a tea tray toward the kitchen. Max is following. 
max		It's a favor for a friend. If it sucks after a half-hour, we'll split and head to South Beach. JULIE A favor? MAX You know, my friend Mike Lowrey. JULIE  Mike Lowrey. Not again. Will you just have sex with the man and get it over with. MAX He's just a friend. JULIE Yeah, right.     You're in love. MAX It's never gonna happen. I'm great at turning lovers into friends. But turning friends into lovers, I can't do. JULIE Well, I don't date cops. They never have enough money and they're always too tired to screw. MAX Well, I've told you before, my Mike isn't like that. If I were in real trouble, Mike Lowrey is the only person I'd call.
26.		59   CONTINUED:                                                 59 EDDIE No. Don't go yet. We can party. Just us three. Look at what Eddie's got to play with. From underneath the couch Eddie reveals a single key of heroin. Max tries to hide the recognition that she just hit paydirt on the very first try.
max		My name's Max.  I'm just a friend. FOUCHET I could use a friend who looks like you. Turn around. Lemme get a good look. Max tries to size this man, then chooses to submit. She does her best model's turn. Slowly giving him a view of the rear when -- Fouchet draws a PISTOL -- BAM BAM!! Max tumbles forward and CRASHES through a GLASS TABLE.
27.		63   INT. BATHROOM - JULIE                                         63 Instant horror. Julie saw Max killed and retreats to the opposite side of the bathroom in total fright. CUT BACK TO:
28.		65   INT. BATHROOM - JULIE                                      65 Half-panicked, half-trying to keep her head. There's no way out of the bathroom. All she can do is switch off the light. And now she sees Casper's shadow as he approaches.
fouchet		Wheels with his PISTOL, unloads the clip. BULLETS are catching up, ripping up the couch and the rest of the suite. Julie dives right into the secret door.
29.		70   CONTINUED:                                                 70 She weighs the options.   Jump or die.
30.		75   CONTINUED:                                                  75 On the far side of the commotion, the two bodies have been photographed and are covered. Chief Howard is conferring with a technician who's dusting for prints.
burnett		Looks like you're already doing that. Burnett's quick to point out the trail of bloody foot- prints Ruiz just tracked across the carpet.
burnett		He drops the sheet on Eddie's body, then moves over to Max's. He doesn't know it's her until -- BURNETT Jesus, no... LOWREY Whatcha got? 
31.		75   CONTINUED:                                                75 Burnett drops the sheet, turns and puts a protective shoulder between Lowrey and the body. LOWREY What?     Who is it? Lowrey instintively pushes past his partner and kneels at the body. He pulls back the sheet. Right now he could kill the shooter, then himself. In that order. Lowrey's eyes well up. LOWREY I shoulda told you to be careful.
32.		77   CONTINUED:                                                   77 LOWREY Three calls to Lois Fields. I'm going to stop by her place and tell her a bedtime story. You can catch a ride with Howard. Lowrey jumps in the car. BURNETT Uh oh... Alright, you check out Lois, then check in --
36.		87   CONTINUED:                                                 87 JULIE I don't want to come downtown! I don't want police protection! If you can't gimme Detective Lowrey I'm just gonna blow town! INTERCUT WITH:
burnett		 Hey, lady. You called me, remember...? 'On the mike with Mike.' After a beat, the door swings ajar.
burnett		I'm undercover. She doesn't believe him and swings the bat. BURNETT Okay.    I'm way undercover. JULIE Prove it! BURNETT I knew her from way back. From time to time, you know... We'd get together. Mess around, you know? JULIE Wrong. Julie swings for real, nearly taking Burnett's head off.
burnett		Okay. Okay. So I exaggerated. It's a man thing. She swings again, but he's had enough, he moves quickly, catching the bat with his hand and ripping it away from her. BURNETT You know what? You don't wanna believe me? That's fine with me! Go it alone. Burnett heads toward the open door.     Julie's veneer drops as she shrinks to the floor. 
burnett		Good.     You got a back door? Julie nods, scoops up one of her dogs and grabbing another modeling bag off the table. JULIE Where are we going? 
burnett		Let's go! JULIE Luke?!   Where's my other dog?! BURNETT Fuck the dog! Burnett sees the second dog cowering in the corner.       So he lunges over, scoops the dog up. CUT TO:
julie		All I remember is one of them had really bad hair. Where are we going? BURNETT I told you, I'm putting you into protective custody... JULIE 
42.		98    CONTINUED:                                                  98 JULIE Wrong? BURNETT I mean right. As in good. My place is good. We'll go there first.  My place.
chet		Didn't mention it to me. Chet holds out his hand. Burnett slips him ten. Chet sneaks a peek over at the car, sees Julie putting on lipstick. CHET Say.   How's that Mrs. Burnett? Burnett realizes this is going to cost him more. Gives him another ten. But for Chet it's still not enough. CHET Your children good? Mr. Lowrey says you got a regular baby factory goin' over there. 
43.		101   CONTINUED:                                                   101 BURNETT  Here. And if that's not enough, I'm gonna run you in for extortion. CHET Now that I think about it, Mr. Lowrey did mention something about giving you the key.
burnett		I forgot I had those switches moved. Welcome to Casa del Lowrey. Julie enters, looking left and right, cautious but impressed by the stylish digs. JULIE Nice... very nice. All this on a cop's salary? BURNETT I uh... I invest. JULIE Right. What was your last pick? A horse in the number two race at Pimlico? Or did a bookie give you an inside tip.
44.		102   CONTINUED:                                               102 BURNETT Fair enough. I'm not on the take. Satisfied? Good. So... why don't you make yourself at home? Here's the T.V. remote. Watch yourself some 'Gilligan's Island' reruns or somethin'. Hits "ON" button. Instead of TV, the room immediately becomes a seduction den: lights dim, romantic music. BURNETT Heh -- all these damn things look alike. 
45.		102   CONTINUED:    Miiike... it's Yvette... I know I told you I don't date cops. And I know I told you I wouldn't sleep with a man I wasn't going to marry. But I've been thinking -- and I remember when you said thinking was a dangerous thing -- so I started feeling... well, lonely. Remember when you gave me that key -- Burnett charges over and shuts OFF the MACHINE. BURNETT It's uh... It's uh... JULIE You don't have to explain. Finally, they've reached consensus.     Burnett grins and is out the door. BURNETT Lock the door. Don't open it for anybody.
burnett		-- I swear, baby, it's nothing. I was on the job -- As she gets to the bedroom, Doris wheels around -- DORIS And you just happened to lose your wedding ring -- 'on the job?!' He looks down at his ringless finger -- BURNETT No!   No!    I got it right here... 
47.		105   CONTINUED:                                                 105 BURNETT If you were a real partner, instead of some no-backup, hot doggin', car chasin', skirt sniffin' motherfucker, I would be gettin' down to business with my wife instead of stuck in this situation. LOWREY Yeah.   Thanks for the get-well card.
48.		106   CONTINUED:                                                 106 LOWREY Dogs, too? I got Persian rugs, man. I'm going home... explain the whole thing, take her to the Motel Six, she'll understand... HOWARD Not a good idea. 
on fouchet		He's dealing with his 26-year-old chemist named ELLIOT. FOUCHET Okay. Explain it to me, Elliot. Why are we behind? ELLIOT The cutting agent is highly volatile. You can't cook it like you would a pizza. I had to gear the ovens down to half-speed. FOUCHET We already accounted for that, Elliot. It's in our fucking timetable. So what else?  Elliot is uncomfortable. He looks back at WALLY, his stoned-looking assistant, before forging ahead. ELLIOT There's too much moisture down here. The pies are taking longer to cook than we originally planned. WALLY Yeah.   It's totally fucked. FOUCHET You.  Shut up.  Noah?! Bring me something for my stomach! A fuckin' Snapple or somethin'.
julie		The guy who killed Max. Now, he was looking for the heroin that Eddie stole from him... Max went to the party as a favor to you. You're a dope cop, right? BURNETT Special Narcotics Division. JULIE So this isn't about Max's death at all. It's about dope. BURNETT We find the dope, we find our shooter, too. JULIE There's some powder in there, too. Can you hand that to me?  Mike? Mike? Burnett has disappeared into... TIME CUT TO:
burnett		It's a good thing that I'm secure in my manhood to see that you don't mean that. You know how many women I've had in that waterbed? Check the waves as they go by. Count 'em.  Now, mug shots?
55.		118   CONTINUED:                                                 118 BURNETT The shooter said four days until he makes the deal. What else did he say? JULIE Somethin' weird. Sounded like three angels... He wasn't worried because he had three little angels on his shoulders tellin' him something. I didn't get the rest.  I'm getting tired of looking at ugly people.
burnett		Just a few more and we can take another break. JULIE I don't wanna take a break. Then we'd have to talk and I got nothing to say to a cannibal. BURNETT A what? JULIE That was a living, breathing consciousness. It felt joy. Sadness. Maybe it even had a name. BURNETT What had a name.
julie		That flesh you're shoveling into your mouth. BURNETT 
56.		118   CONTINUED:     Let's look at some more ugly people.
julie		Wait. Hold it. Go back... That's him! That's one of 'em. BURNETT You sure? Julie nods.    She's certain.
julie		 I had a little accident. BURNETT This is my favorite shirt.   My lucky shirt. JULIE Sorry. As Burnett starts to walk away... JULIE Listen, Mike. I don't have any of my clothes. I wanna go back to my place to get some. BURNETT Not going to happen.
julie		I need apparel. That and I need some food that's something more than a cold, slab of fear. BURNETT Slab of fear? JULIE All you got in the place are frozen steaks. BURNETT Alright. I left my wallet at the office so I'll give you some cash tomorrow.
theresa		Standing in the doorway.   Hands on her hips. LOWREY Oh, hi, Theresa. Just tellin' the kids about -- THERESA Thank you, but I'll tuck the kids in. Say good night to Uncle Mike. QUINCY But we want to hear the rest of the story... Theresa silences Quincy with a look.   Sensing his cue, Lowrey kisses the kids.
lowrey		G'night, gang. QUINCY AND JILL G'night, Uncle Mike.
lowrey		Just a harmless bedtime story. Thought the kids deserved to know about the hero they have for a dad. THERESA We don't need any violence in this household and we certainly don't need any more heroes. What we need is a father and a husband. LOWREY Husband? Theresa. He's your personal errand boy. You beep the poor S.O.B. every hour on the Goddamn hour? And why is it always about some useless bullshit that can wait until later. I mean, the guy's gotta job to do. THERESA You wanna know why I page him? Because until that phone rings, I don't know whether he's dead or alive. And lemme tell you. Those three minutes I'm waiting for him to call back? Those are the hardest three minutes for a cop's wife. LOWREY 
lowrey		You should recognize trunk. It's the one you came to America in. RUIZ You don't come from Cuba by car, asshole. Lowrey walks by his own cherished Porsche on the way in.
lowrey		You know, it is a damn shame she makes you buy this stuff. BURNETT Hey, this what husband's do. LOWREY Terrible fuckin' job. 
63.		132   EXT. GRUNGY TRAILER PARK - DAY                              132 Burnett and Lowrey park and pop the trunk.    Inside are guns and uniforms. BURNETT What are we gonna be today? Postal Inspectors or Water and Power? LOWREY Water and Power.
burnett		It's me, Julie... Julie enters from the bedroom, dressed in something hot with the tag still hanging from a sleeve. JULIE I'll be ready in just a minute. I thought I'd have you tell -- She stalls at the sight of Lowrey, a little spark of interest passes between them. JULIE Hi. I'm Julie. You must be Marcus. 
burnett		What? LOWREY No. It's not my place. My wife. She's a designer. She decorated the whole place at a discount just for Mike. And when she hears about how he's been taking care of --  Off the couch! Lowrey chases the dogs into the bedroom. One of the dogs runs out with a Cole Hahn loafer in his mouth. They both follow him into the bedroom.
woman		Yvette! BURNETT You don't quit stalking me, Yvette, I'm gonna place your ass under arrest! -- 'Bye! Burnett slams the door. She's SCREAMING on the other side, POUNDING the door with her fists, and cursing in mad Spanish. Finally she stomps off down the hall. LOWREY 'The hell's going on out here?? 
julie		 So, Mike. Any other spontaneous naked women with keys, that we should know about? BURNETT We, as in Marcus and I, are going to Club Hell. We're gonna nail this Noah guy and get him to give up Max's shooter. Anyone got a problem with that? JULIE I feel safer now. She turns and exits back into the bedroom. Burnett's about to follow when Lowrey swings him outside the door- way and gets into his face. LOWREY You are ruining my life! BURNETT Yeah, well this case is messin' with mine, too.
julie		Three little angels! The guy who killed Max said 'three little -- Julie sees Noah and freezes. LOWREY The music's too loud.    What you say about angels? Noah closes the gap.    Through the crowd he draws down on Lowrey.
lowrey		Launches himself off a nearby table, soars over the frightened crowd and comes crashing down upon Noah. Both Lowrey and Noah tumble to the floor. Noah's gun skitters into the crowd. Noah chases for it, but can't find it. But --
julie		as she grabs Lowrey. JULIE That's him! LOWREY No shit!
noah		His wheels catch the island and the snaps, and rolls right into --
burnett		There goes our only lead to the dope. We better call Howard. JULIE That's it. That's it.   You're both crazy. Julie takes a few steps away before she decides to give them the other barrel. JULIE Protect and serve. Sound familiar? Isn't that what you're supposed to do? 'Cuz I'd like to know whose butt you're protecting. 
burnett		Yeah... I feel a little funny. JULIE Not that kind of funny. BURNETT What kind of funny? JULIE You know...  Funny. BURNETT I gotta call Marcus. Burnett's out of bed like a shot and headed for the living room.
kids		G'night, Uncle Mike. THERESA Yeah.   Good night, Uncle Mike. LOWREY G'night, everybody. Lowrey's at the window. Parked just down the street is the same sedan. He goes for the phone and dials. Waits for an answer. LOWREY Hey, Sanchez. It's me Lowrey... Yeah? Same to you, pal. But listen. I got something you'll want a piece of.
theresa		Mike! In a heartbeat, Lowrey charges into Theresa's room in his underwear. LOWREY What's the matter? THERESA I heard a noise... I think someone's outside...
lowrey's gun		Tumbles into the flower bed. Lowrey reels with     an elbow, dropping Burnett to the lawn. But Burnett rolls     and clips Lowrey's legs. Lowrey falls. Crawls for      his gun. Gets hold of it, turns and is ready to fire when    --
car		drives past.   The headlights, revealing Burnett. LOWREY Marcus!   What the fuck -- BURNETT ... You doin' Theresa?    Theresa! LOWREY What?   Me and Theresa? BURNETT I hope you used protection... 'cause I don't want a fourth kid that looks like you! 
lowrey		This whole deal has turned you stupid. You're seeing things that aren't there. 
burnett		Yeah, I wouldn't want to spoil your little arrangement! LOWREY And where's Julie? You didn't leave her again. BURNETT She's in the car. Got her cuffed to the steering wheel. Lowrey could kill now. He's on his feet, grabbing Burnett by the collar and shoving him up against the front door. LOWREY 
86.		201    CONTINUED:                                                  201 Lowrey holds and watches Burnett run off to the Porsche, keeping the sedan in his periphery the entire time. CUT TO:
casper		Sonofabitch!   There's the girl! But just as they start the car.    KUH-THUNK -- the CAR lurches. FERGUSON What the fuck?
howard's office		Where Ruiz and Sanchez wait with one of last night's Henchmen. His face is horribly bruised.
sanchez		He says he wants his lawyer. RUIZ Yeah, but we told him we were desperate men without no fuckin' jobs, so...  So? HENCHMAN Okay. All I know is his name. Foo-shay, I think. Got this heavy French accent. The word was he offs drug dealers. And there was quick cash for whoever had the balls enough to hook up with him. I swear, man, watchin' your house was my first gig for the guy.
lowrey		Or one really smart sonofabitch. HOWARD We're    in the shit, boys. And there    ain't gonna be any more time cards    for this unit unless somebody pulls    a miracle out of their ass.
jojo		I'm tellin' you straight up, like a straight fuckin' arrow, okay? I'm straight as a board. I'm so straight it's fuckin' sick. BURNETT Now there's a lotta dope, Jojo. Who can cut it quick? JOJO You mean, cut it... cut it up, yeah. I don't know anything about anything. Lowrey's had it.   He pulls his gun and pushes in. 
lowrey		Excuse me. One moment. 
95.		215   INT. STAKEOUT CAR - DAWN                                    215 BURNETT Let's just hope he didn't come home for a nap. TIME CUT TO:
lowrey		I'm on him.  Hey, buckle up back there. JULIE Wha...? Lowrey has the keys in the ignition and is stomping on the gas.
julie		What? LOWREY Mike's place.     I said Mike's. Lowrey rolls his eyes.    He can't wait for this to end.
julie		So, I guess when you get back, it's gonna be over. LOWREY That's the plan... So, Mike. Loan some of those ass kicking clothes. BURNETT Third drawer down.  Hey, Julie. Do me a favor and see who that is.
lowrey		Mike what?     What'd he do? BURNETT Theresa.     It's not how it looks. THERESA It ain't Cleveland, neither. LOWREY Where's Julie? Lowrey pushes past Theresa into --
julie		Wait. I know why. Because you said you needed me. Jesus, who's the stupid one now? LOWREY We still need you. He reaches for her. JULIE Fuck you! Julie slams a fist into Lowrey's face. The elevator doors shut. Then Burnett comes hauling down the corridor with Theresa at his heels. He pounds the elevator button. THERESA You stayed away from home just one night too many, Marcus. BURNETT Theresa. She's a material witness! It was orders!
fouchet		enters, with Casper and Ferguson to either side. 
burnett		Pushes Theresa back into the elevator, making her lay on the floor as BULLETS CUT above.
lowrey		Slips behind a pillar as BULLETS WHIZ past.
julie		On floor.    In the middle.   Crawling for cover when --
fouchet		With balls the size of Pennsylvania. Two GUNS in hand, walks forward with barrels fixed and FIRING. Clips out on one, tosses the gun aside, then, with his free hand, reaches down and grabs Julie by the hair and lifts her until she stands. FOUCHET Let's go! 
lowrey		Swings around the pillar, gun leveled and running after them. LOWREY Julie!!!! Meanwhile --
lowrey		enters. He dives to the floor as Casper stops and FIRES. BULLETS RIP through the salon walls and mirrors. Lowrey ends up under an old lady's dress.  239   EXT. OCEAN BLVD.                            239 Exiting the beauty salon and stumbling through a crowded cafe runs Fouchet and the gang, mauling their way through tables and patrons. Lowrey, only moments behind, pushing his way through the same path.  103. 240   EXT. INTERSECTION                                          240 Fouchet stops right in the middle. Picks the first car that's headed for him. Levels a GUN on a taxi cab and FIRES two quick rounds -- BAM BAM!! The driver of the car instantly slumps. Ferguson's seen this before. He's around to the driver's side of the car, pulling the dead man out and leaving him on the street. Casper and Fouchet shove Julie inside and they're off again.  241   EXT. INTERSECTION                                          241 But here comes Burnett. Crossing traffic. He's got no gun. So he jumps aboard Fouchet's car just as it gets into gear. The WHEELS SPIN. The CAR LURCHES ahead.
fouchet		He sees his chance and GUNS the ENGINE. The cab barrels at Burnett, who's stuck in the middle of the boulevard, about to become instant roadkill. Then --
104.		244   CONTINUED:                                                244 TAXI CAB hauls on by. Leaving Burnett and Lowrey in a heap of their own, both trying to catch their breath. LOWREY Don't ever say I wasn't there for you.
howard		It's about fuckin' time. BURNETT We lost the girl. HOWARD But you found the dope, right? So let's go get it back. A bicycle BELL RINGS. Heads turn. And here comes a BOY on his bike, serpentining his way through the maze of cars and cops until he gets to Lowrey, Burnett, and Howard. BOY Which one of you's Lowrey?   I got somethin' for him. LOWREY At least I'm me again.  Yeah.   This is Lowrey.
105.		246   CONTINUED:                                                 246 FOUCHET I have something for you to listen to. Fouchet lifts his PISTOL and FIRES a single shot.   BAM! INTERCUT WITH --
106.		249   CONTINUED:                                                249 En masse, all the cops act as if the wind had been knocked from their sails.
lowrey		You know that once he sells the dope, he's gonna kill her just like he did Max. BURNETT Three little angels. Julie kept talking about his three little angels. A barkeeper appears with two beers.   Burnett automati- cally reaches for his wallet.
burnett		 Three little angels.
107.		251   CONTINUED:                                                251 Neither of them smiling. FRANCINE Hey, fellahs. What's the joke.  Really. I want to know. Soon, though, the facade fades.   Francine knows she's been caught.
108.		252   CONTINUED:                                                 252 FRANCINE  He's the scariest man I ever met. LOWREY Yeah. But does he still trust what you tell him?
109.		257   EXT. BOAT YARD - DRUG FREIGHTER - FOUCHET                 257 He's surprised to hear from Francine. FOUCHET Yes, Francine... What is it? FRANCINE Miami P.D.'s called in the D.E.A. task force. They know the deal's going down in just two hours. So they've deployed agents to every point of entry, airports, marinas, etc... FOUCHET Is that all?
francine		Yes. FOUCHET I'm very pleased, Francine. You're the best pet I've ever had. He hangs up.
burnett		Call Howard. Tell him we're gonna need lotsa back-up.
110.		260   CONTINUED:                                                  260 JULIE I forget the formula. Big gun, big dick? No. Little gun, big dick? No. Big gun, little dick? Yeah. Yeah. I think that's it.
111.		267   EXT. HANGAR 3 - DAY                                        267 Two henchmen for the buyer open the yawning doors of this massive, five-story hangar to reveal a C-123 cargo aircraft. The convoy of trucks enters.
burnett		That's it. That's where they're making the deal. Burnett swivels the spotting scope.
buyer		Three hundred million and very, very fresh. Too much to count, eh?
on julie		As Casper pulls her from the rear of a truck and handcuffs her to the door of a cab. BUYER Who's the bimbo? FOUCHET Simply part of another transaction. 
112.		271   CONTINUED:                                                 271 The operation moves swiftly. Dope pallets for cash pallets. Smooth, just like the original heist. Two fuel trucks are moved in to gas up the aircraft.
113.		274   CONTINUED:                                                 274 BURNETT Mouths shut, feet moving.    Now, walk.
114.		280   INT. HANGAR 3 - ANGLE ACROSS HANGAR - DAY                280 The garbage truck barrels through the rear wall, instantly colliding with the left wing section of aircraft. The wheel assembly buckles and the aircraft twists onto one wing. Fuel spills.
115.		285   INT. AIRCRAFT                                      285 Inside the aircraft the precious dope catches fire.
116.		292   INT. HANGAR 3 - SEPARATE SHOTS - BURNETT AND LOWREY          292 Each placing their faces against their own sleeves.    The smoke is thicker, swirling in waves.
fouchet		I was going to fuck her, then kill her. Now it looks like I'm only going to do the latter. LOWREY Either we O.D. on the air or the whole place blows. We're dying anyway. BURNETT Let her go and you'll walk. You can keep the dope and the money.  Shut up! It's gone. She's dead. Unless you move aside. Burnett eases further right. Gun carefully aimed. His eyes are stinging. Lowrey goes left. But he's lowering his gun.
fouchet		Pulls Julie closer. Gun at her head. Looking to Burnett. While Lowrey is nodding to Julie. Nodding for her to -- 
117.		294   CONTINUED:                                                  294 LOWREY Drop, Julie! She drops.    Burnett has a clear shot when --
fouchet		Twisting Julie for all to see.    The cops' rifle sights, all glinting in the sun. FOUCHET I'll kill the girl!!! 
julie		Ow.     This shit really hurts. LOWREY Stick around. I'll give you a bullet to bite. Finally --
burnett kids		Uncle Mike, Uncle Mike. Then... BURNETT Baby! Theresa framed in the front doorway, looking smashing in the outfit Lowrey picked out for her. Burnett ambles up the walk into her arms. They hug and kiss, Theresa tossing a wink Lowrey's way. LOWREY Manana, partner. Peace. Okay, kids. Pile in. And watch the leather and windows this time? JULIE You got a real way with kids, Lowrey.
lowrey		You see anybody complaining? BURNETT Hey.    Where are the kids goin'? THERESA Didn't you know? We got us a new babysitter. She kisses him. BURNETT You mean... THERESA It's quality time, Marcus. 
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Country.txt****

grace		Now them first two, you gonna get your money's worth.  This one here's more expensive, but that's 'cause there ain't a nigger flaw in one of 'em. They hard as steel and emerald green as emerald green fuckin' comes. Lookit that.
bud		That's nice.
grace		That's the real McCoy. That's what that is.
bud		Tell you what... Bag 'em all. The market's got a hard-on for this shit.
grace		I hear that.  Jake, get on it.
newscaster		...And today, thirty-one year old Gary Plauche pleaded innocent by reason of insanity, to charges of second-degree murder in the slaying of accused sex offender, Jeffrey Doucett.
bud		What do you got there? Diamonds?
grace		That's thirty grand. Out the door. You interested?
bud		Ain't got the scratch right now. But I am interested.
newscaster		From East Baton Rouge Sheriff's office...
newscaster		Doucett was being extradited to Baton Rouge.
newscaster		The victim's father, Gary Plauche, stood waiting at the terminal. As Doucett walked by, Plauche turned, raised a handgun...and fired.
grace		Here you go. Fifteen three-karat blues. Wholesale. Twenty large.
newscaster		Lieutenant Carter was unavailable for comment.
ray		Motherfucker, he's a cop.
shepard		Fuck! Go! Go!
cobb		Think I broke a knuckle on that guy's tooth.
shepard		He only had one tooth.
cobb		Well I got it, didn't I?
marandino		 Another round, Sherry.
sherry		Comin' up.
marandino		Bud, we all supposed to be celebratin'. 'Been workin' this case for months. And you ain't said shit.
bud		They had a lot of weight. Too much.
cobb		It's a ring. Organized burglary.
bud		You saw them guys. You think that half ass crew was organized?
marandino		 They shit their pants in unison.
cobb		What are you gettin' after, Bud?
shepard		You think it was someone else's score.
bud		I think its a part of somethin' bigger.
bud		Tomorrow morning we put our friends under the lamp. If they know this "someone else", we'll know him too.
ray		I told you... I keep tellin' you... I don't know nothin'. That's it.
cobb		That's not it. We've been here all morning. We'll stay here all night.
marandino		The stones you were fencin' belonged to an Amsec wall safe in "Kay's Jewelers". The rest from a vault in Bocage. Both owners can verify their belongings, and have.  Who you fencin' for?
grace		Man, I ain't sayin' fuckin' shit.
marandino		Then your name's on a dozen other jobs, just like it.
grace		That's bullshit.
marandino		No, that's a promise.
cobb		We got a series of burglaries in the area. All over the last six months. All still open. You don't talk, it's on you.
ray		Well I ain't got nothin' to do with that.
cobb		Any idea who does?
ray		No! Okay? Fuck no.
marandino		...Answer the question.
grace		 MAN FUCK THIS! AND FUCK YOU! Y'ALL CREW'S JUST FAGGOTS IN MATCHING JACKETS!
bud		Try this. I know you're too fuckin' dumb to be any more than a courier. I know you're coverin' for someone else. NOW TELL ME WHO THAT SOMEONE IS!
grace		I ain't a rat!
bud		YOU AIN'T A RAT?!
marandino		Easy, Bud. Go easy.
grace		 STOP THIS SHIT! STOP HIM!
bud		LOCK THE DOOR!
bud		I'll teach you what commitment is... I'll throw you in an eight by nine and have you fucked in the ass by every inmate in the state of Louisiana-- AND THAT'S THE REST OF YOUR LIFE!
bud		GIVE ME A NAME!
grace		 He's from Whiskey Bay--!
bud		--GIVE ME A NAME!!
bud		Two tours in 'Nam. '69 and '71. He's a jump marine. Weapons trained, explosives.  Seven and a half out of a twelve year stint for federal robbery. Two in Angola. A year in DeQuincy. Three in El Reno with a transfer to Lewisburg. Then Marion with a brief stopover in Leavenworth. Released
shepard		Jacket's the size of the bible.
bud		His stay at Marion, they kept him in "H" block.
shepard		H block? That's home to forty top murder one inmates...
bud		Yeah, life sentences. Jesse only had twelve years.
bud		He ain't just woodwork.
dissolve to:		Night passes and the dawn arrives...
shepard		 Target's out.
bud		 Alright. Give him room.
bud		 We're mobile.
shepard		He's turnin' off.
bud		Let's take him in the car.  Wait'll he's stopped. Watch your backgrounds.
bud		Don't move. You motherfuck, I'll blow your head clean off.
bud		Shut the car off slowly.
shepard		POLICE! WARRANT!
lynn		GET OUT! GET THE FUCK OUT OF MY HOUSE!
marandino		MA'AM, CALM DOWN! CALM DOWN!
shepard		WE GOT A WARRANT!
lynn		 FUCK YOU! FUCK YOU!
lynn		Help... My baby...my baby...
bud		 CALL AN AMBULANCE! NOW!
bud		Toss everything.
cobb		Alright, I want everything seized!
marandino		Motherfucker's got a general store.
shepard		God damn...there's some weight.
bud		I'm Detective Lieutenant Bud Carter, of the East Baton Rouge Parish Precinct.  So how you like Baton Rouge?
jesse		What happened to my wife?
bud		Water broke. She's en route to the hospital.
bud		This is new.
bud		What's the cyanide for, Jesse?
jesse		Extracting impurities.
bud		Impurities from what?
bud		You're in a bad situation here, pal.
jesse		I'll make bond.
shepard		 OUT! EVERYONE OUT! GET THE FUCK OUT!
braddock		What more do you want? You got a two time felon on multiple counts. You got robbery, B&E, you got an all-you-can-eat felony fuckin' possession. All on top of an organized burglary ring.
bud		There's more, I know it.
bud		Remember him? Ten months ago, a judge gets popped with a .357. Well I got a Ruger from Wheeler's toilet and rushed it through ballistics.
braddock		And?
bud		It's a solid match! Dead on.
braddock		There's a dozen ways Wheeler could've got that burner. It don't prove a thing.
bud		 A stack of bonds taken from the home of a Baptist Minister...
bud		Murdered. He and his wife. Looked like a robbery gone to shit then; I want it opened back up.
braddock		So who's backin' him?
bud		I don't know; I do know they'll post his bond. That's why I need a price they can't come up with overnight.
bud		I'm right about this, Mike.  When a guy's lookin' at two hundred years and he ain't upset... It's like when your wife is accusing you of fuckin' the neighbor, but she don't know you're fuckin' her sister too. You're pretty calm about it, right?
bud		It's 'cause we hit the wrong nerve. The guns, the other shit, the time... He can have that conversation. And he is. And he ain't upset. He's makin' eye contact, 'cause we're fallin' short.  This guy knows things. He knows where bodies are.
braddock		I'll bounce it up to the D.A.
jesse		My name is Jesse Wheeler... I'm now in charge of this cell. Any y'all don't like it, step your black ass forward, line up.
bud		 Yeah...
bud		 Charlie... You had an inmate in '75, named Jesse Wheeler.
bud		Charlie, you there?
charlie		What's your interest in this guy, Bud?
bud		Well, we got him on weapons and burglary. But I got a feelin' there's more.
charlie		Damn straight, a lot more. Race riots. Smuggling. Extorting a guard. I had a few run-ins with him myself.
bud		What else?
bud		So what the fuck happened?
murphy		Processing ain't open till morning. We threw him in holding last night. 'Fore we even turn around, it's like we're back in the fuckin' Alamo.
bud		He attack the guards?
murphy		Guards are fine. But he took on three niggers like they stole from him.
murphy		I'll tell you somethin', Bud. After it happened, our block was the quietest it'd ever been. Wish we had ten just like him.
bud		Open the door.
bud		Heard you refused a public defender.
bud		At the gas station...When you were arrested, I put a gun to your head. You expected someone else.
jesse		You don't look like cops.
bud		And your house? Guns. Mass supply tells me, intent to sell. Cyanide in the fridge, explosives...tells me you're scared.
bud		I know who you are.
jesse		If you knew that much, you wouldn't be in here alone.
bud		One more thing, pal. I saw the judge this morning.  There is no bond.
catfish		Grace? That you?
grace		Hey there, Catfish...
catfish		'The hell happened?
catfish		 Oh... Excuse me.
catfish		So where you off to?
grace		Goin' to visit my mother. She's real sick.
catfish		That's too bad. So you'll be gone a long time then.
grace		Yeah...
grace		 Buzz.
grace		What can I do y'all for?
catfish		How come the Wheeler brothers, is locked up? And you ain't?
grace		Wheeler brothers is locked up? I don't know nothin' about that.
catfish		I heard different.
grace		Well there ain't no "different" to hear, Catfish. 'Cause I ain't talked to neither of 'em.
catfish		But you did talk to someone.
ray		There's eyes everywhere. Like I got a sign on my back, Jesse, they all think I talked.
ray		Just the other day... some spic fish got hit with a weight. Ten other cons, they beat him and stabbed him till there weren't nothin' left. And the guards let it happen.
ray		His brains were on the wall, Jesse. Like somebody painted 'em.
jesse		They come at you?
ray		Not yet... But it's in the mail. I can feel it fuckin' coming.
ray		Hey, Jesse...  Sorry I put you back here. I never meant--
jesse		 'Cause of you, I missed the birth of my son.
bud		Put 'em in prison, they get stronger. Everywhere you send one, they recruit in numbers. Within five years, their numbers were over ten thousand.
marandino		Wheeler directed all that, huh?
bud		What do you got there, Shep'?
shepard		Interpol wired us files on three known Aryan leaders in the state of Louisiana: Edgar Bingham. Harold Kay. And this man... Lucian Adams.
shepard		High priest of the Aryan National Party. His "ministry" of Christian Identity and Paramilitary Order has stood for over a decade. Check this out...
shepard		Wheeler was just seventeen when he met Lucian at the Patriotic Congress.
marandino		No shit.
shepard		Today, Lucian's one hell of an entrepreneur. Owns surplus stores. Demolition. A piping business. Got trucks runnin' all across the God damn country.
bud		Stay focused. Get back to Wheeler... I need an angle.
cobb		For what? If Wheeler ever flipped, news would spread like wildfire. The AB's gonna know about it. They'd gonna know about it nationally.  Pass the sugar.
bud		That's if he was a surface informant. I don't want him to testify. I want to keep him on the street.  Look, this guy's been in it a long time. He's up to his elbows; wants to shake his hands free. I can feel it.
marandino		Braddock ain't gonna go for this.
bud		I'll handle that.
bud		We got one chance here. 'Cause if this falls short... Jesse Wheeler's worth more dead than alive.
czapp		How you doin', Ray?  We was just over there wonderin' why you ain't got the courtesy to introduce us to your kin.
ray		I was gonna.
czapp		 I'm sure you was.
czapp		Jesse Wheeler. Heard of you...
roach		Fuckin-A, heard a lot.
czapp		Name's Czapp... You can call me, "Bossman."  I kept an eye on your brother the past few days for you. Ain't that right, Ray?
ray		 Yeah...
jesse		My brother ain't none of your business.
czapp		Ain't none of my business, "Bossman." And everything in this fuckin' place is my business.
czapp		 Listen to me, you sonofabitch. I'm gonna make one God damn thing God damn clear. Your reputation is smoke. Whatever they say you is or once was, I don't give a flyin' fuck. 'Cause it's my say-so now. And your fuckin' brother's up for grabs.
czapp		Y'all got that?!
roach		 Fuck...
murphy		WHEELER!!! Stand the fuck up! Hands behind your head!
murphy		Hands behind your head! Get on the fuckin' floor!
duty guard		Phone call.
duty guard		It's a secure line.
jesse		 Yeah.
jesse		I don't want my brother touched.
jesse		I'm askin' you, Lucian. My brother ain't a problem.
braddock		You're reachin', Bud. The leverage ain't there.
bud		It's there. It's gotta cook a little longer, that's all.
braddock		Jesse won't so much as blink at doin' life. The fuckin' guy didn't rise in the ranks 'cause he skirts under pressure.  There's no deal to be had.
bud		C'mon, Mike, you know what's goin' on. Ray Wheeler compromised Jesse. By that, he compromised the Brotherhood. Don't tell me there ain't no fuckin' leverage.
braddock		We need somethin' more.
bud		Well we ain't sleepin' till we find it.
lynn		Life. You know how fuckin' long that is, Jesse?
lynn		So what am I supposed to do? Wait? Run?  Your friends are comin' by the house. Askin' questions, hangin' around. Waitin' for the God damn phone to ring.
lynn		You said we were done with this. That they were out of our lives.
lynn		We have no money, Jesse. Which means we have no fucking food. ...Say something, would you?
jesse		It's gonna be okay.
lynn		I'm afraid. I'm afraid for my life...
lynn		 ...For our baby.
bud		Lynn Wheeler. We haven't been properly introduced. I'm Detective Bud Carter.
lynn		I know who you are.
bud		You have a ride home?
lynn		We took the bus.
bud		Take a cab.
bud		'You need anything...anything at all. Be sure to call me.
jesse		Ray...
jesse		Raymond, take a look.
bud		Want a cup of coffee?
jesse		MOTHERFUCKER! This how you do things?
bud		Yeah... When I want to talk to someone, without giving the impression he's cooperatin'.
bud		You got a problem.
jesse		Yeah, what's that?
bud		To start with, you're lookin' at two hundred years.
jesse		I've done the time. I'll do it again.
bud		I know you can do it. But can your family?
bud		Your brother's dead, Jesse. As we're sittin' here now, he's on a slab at St. Gabriel's Morgue. The coroner's callin' it, "suicide". You and I both know that's a load of shit.  'Less you talk...to me.
jesse		Do you hate?
bud		What?
jesse		Who do you hate the most? Blacks you throw in prison?
bud		...I dislike what they represent in the system. Not as a whole.
jesse		And you believe that by overthrowin' Aryan nationalism and integratin' races...polluted creeds, with us...You believe you're solvin' somethin'?
bud		I believe we survive by integrating safety. Understanding hate, and how to stop it.
jesse		It ain't evil to fight it. It's evil to tolerate it.  Maybe you forget that, to justify what you do for a living...
bud		Are we still in prison, or we back at the compound, havin' mass?
jesse		You don't get it.
bud		No, don't dictate to me what put you in here, or question my intentions with your overcooked revolution!  'Fact, I think you wanted out 'fore I even got to you! That's why you distanced yourself. That's why you're out there crackin' safes. Lookin' to live a life that ain't AB.
jesse		In who I am, there's pressure! I work for you, I won't need a lawyer, I'll need a priest! My outside finance is gone... My wife and son, their heads wind up somewhere their bodies ain't! So tell me, why the fuck should I get involved with you?!
bud		How about personal warranty?
jesse		Warranty?!
bud		Yeah, that's right! You've been a part of the problem so long, you've forgotten what the fuck that is!  "Finance..." Your wife came here on a bus to see you. I sent her home in a cab. Is that your outside fuckin' finance?!
bud		Let me give you a little insight, pal. As to what I know... And what you think you know.
bud		This is today...
bud		Is that your house? That's your wife, right? Who's this guy?
bud		 Know where he's takin' them? Takin' your family? I got a pretty good fuckin' idea.
bud		Look at your wife, Jesse. Look at her face. And your son. They look safe to you?  I'm all you've got! I'm all your family's got! And the longer you're in here, they're up for grabs.
bud		So either you let that happen... Or I get the judge to allow bond. This never sees trial. And you work for me.
judge ponder		You stand accused of forty counts of burglary, twenty nine counts of felony theft, possession of illegal firearms, possession or dealing in unregistered weapons, possession of a controlled substance, manufacture and possession of incendiary devices, and seventeen counts of receiving stolen goods... How do you plead?
kiersey		Not guilty, Your Honor.
judge ponder		Let's hear the arguments for bail.
district attorney		Your honor, this man is an habitual felon as well as a flight risk. Our office has overwhelming evidence that Mr. Wheeler is not only guilty, but also a serious threat to the community. The State recommends that bail be denied.
kiersey		Your honor, my client deserves a reasonable bail. He has every intention of appearing and answering to all these false charges. In addition, he is the sole provider for his wife and newborn child, who would suffer undo hardship if this man were incarcerated.
judge ponder		Bond is set at one million.
kiersey		Congratulations.
jesse		 Yeah...
jesse		 Okay.
man's voice		How's your family?
jesse		Let's get somethin' straight. I ain't here 'cause I'm scared. I done what I did, 'cause certain people crossed the line. They didn't keep their word.
bud		Well my word counts.
bud		I want a body, Jesse.
jesse		How many you want?
cobb		'The fuck is that?
bud		Yard dog. Relax.
shepard		Where's this motherfucker taking us?
jesse		 Dig here.
marandino		Bud! We hit something!
bud		Clear it off! Come on, find the edges!
braddock		How long they been down there?
bud		Jesse tells me six months.
braddock		Six months? Bud, they're biodegraded by now. Fuckin' worm food.
bud		We'll get an ID. Remember, we got the guy who put 'em there.
catfish		'Bout time to get a new truck there, Jesse.
catfish		Good to see you out. A free man now.
jesse		What's goin' on, 'Fish?
catfish		On a Sunday drive, that's all. The good Lord ridin' shotgun, through another glorious Louisiana mornin'.
catfish		Say, Jesse... Lucian's askin' about you. Fact, a lot of people are.
jesse		You tell him I'll come by.
catfish		 That's good. I'll see you real soon then.
bud		Hey, Mike.
braddock		Bud, this is Special Agent, Martin Fitch. He's down from Washington. With the Attorney General.
fitch		Martin. Just call me Martin.
braddock		Martin's gonna be soliciting Jesse's case for a Federal sponsor.
bud		How long you been with the Attorney General, Fitch?
fitch		Just over a year.
fitch		I want to assure you my education and experience is more than adequate to handle a case of this potential.
bud		Is that right...
braddock		Why don't we get to the particulars?
fitch		Right. Alright.  To get Jesse a federal sponsor, we need something substantial. A bait. In the Justice Department, we have this mission statement... We decide who the target is, what's the threat assessment, the cost value, over what time table it's gonna take place... Which target do we go after first. We don't want to miss a big target hitting a smaller target, you understand?
bud		No.
fitch		Well, exposing bodies has limitations. Those people are dead. We can't retrieve their lives.
braddock		He means there might not be enough to back Jesse.
bud		Keep him on the street without protection, he winds up dead.
fitch		What I'm saying is, we need fresh leads. He'll need to present something that separates him from those we're going to arrest. If Jesse can't offer something continuous... I'm afraid we can't be of much help.
waitress		Ready to order?
fitch		 Yes. I'll take a garden salad. Roquefort on the side.
waitress		You'll take what?
fitch		 It's a dressing.
waitress		Well...we got ranch, thousand island and oil. Which one you want?
bud		Lost my appetite.
bud		I set this up. Me and Jesse. If the Feds want to help, that's fine. But not him.
braddock		What do you mean, "me and Jesse?" He's not your partner, Bud. This case is beyond our capacity. It requires resources we don't have.
bud		They ain't takin' us serious, Mike. They send us some kid with a year under his belt?! He don't even know what state he's in... You want him in charge?!
braddock		You're God damn right I do! You're out on a limb on this already, Bud! It's my job to make sure you get back!
bud		This is bullshit.
braddock		That may be. What it ain't, is open for discussion.
jesse		Y'all wanna talk about crime? Well I could tell y'all things. Names. Locations. What boat is movin' what drugs, which one is guns. Who's gonna get cut up and why. ...But what I got to know is, if 'n when I do this... If I wear your dog collar... Y'all gonna do what's right by me and keep my head from gettin' shot the fuck off? 'Cause the truth is, you need me. You ain't got enough cops with enough sense or enough time, to clear them crimes that already been committed and will be.  Y'all need me... I got the devil's address.
fitch		Okay, great... Thanks. Thank you, Jesse, for that. And thank you, everyone for attending...  Uh, we all know why we're here. To solve a matter of custody--
dea		Those murders were drug related. DEA's got to do follow ups.
secret service		He was printing counterfeit money. That's Secret Service.
jesse		There's a hit list.
fitch		Wait! Wait a minute, quiet! Everyone quiet!
fitch		A what?
jesse		A hit list. There's much as twelve. Might be one or two less now, I ain't sure. Some could've already been gotten.
bud		 Now we're talkin'.
jesse		Different reasons. It ain't so much why or what they done that matters. Pick any one of 'em off that list, AB puts you on salary.
jesse		And you, sir, if I ain't mistaken... You're Mr. Nokes, right?
jesse		First U.S. Attorney, John Nokes?
nokes		That's right.
jesse		Well, last time I seen it...you was number two on that list.
nokes		Can you fill us in on the rest of those names, Jesse?
jesse		Yes, I can. But there's something I gotta make clear 'fore that happens.
nokes		What's that?
jesse		I've listened to you, Mr. Nokes. And I've listened to these suits here, on who's gonna take me in...  I want y'all to know that.
nokes		 How's that fly by you, Lieutenant?
nokes		I'll sponsor him. Jesse's welfare will come out of our budget. Anyone has pending cases or leads for Jesse, see me. I'll loan him out.
nokes		And, Jesse... I'm a little pissed I'm number two on that list. Who the fuck is number one?
buzz		Jesse.
jesse		I'm here to see Lucian.
catfish		He's busy right now; You can come in and wait.
male voice		This operation of your's has become big business. You need relationships now more than ever...
morris		...We've done business successfully before, Mr. Adams. But it's a larger scope now. I'm here today because I want to represent you exclusively. You need someone lobbying at a state level, as well as in Washington. My organization can provide both. We've got contacts that you don't have and other people can't get. Now, I'm aware that you have multiple businesses... However you need one go-to guy, so that all your ventures stay coordinated and all transactions and contracts are realized. I am that person, Mr. Adams. That's what I do.
kiersey		What's this going to cost us?
morris		As a retainer, I want an advance of three hundred-fifty thousand, along with ten percent of whatever economic benefit I bring to this organization.
kiersey		Three-fifty? C'mon, Dick. That's out of line.
morris		If you want a quality global economic plan, that's what you pay for--
morris		You've got a deal.
lucian		 Give us a minute.
lucian		You have a son now, right?
jesse		Yeah...
lucian		What'd you name him?
jesse		I named him Ray.
lucian		 Heard the cops smacked you around inside.
jesse		'Wasn't too bad.
lucian		You've been a busy man, Jesse. More ways than one.
jesse		Looks like you done just fine without me. Business rollin' through the door.
lucian		Last I saw you, you asked for time. Time to raise a family. Time to straighten things out.  I knew right then and there, only a white respectable burglar could've done this.
lucian		Jesse... With all the work you been doin': Diamonds. Emeralds. A dozen safe jobs, behind my back...  Where's the tribute to the greater cause?
jesse		Like I said, I just needed time.
lucian		Well, even prophets stumble once in a while.
lucian		It's a shame about your brother.
lynn		I don't understand. Why do we have to leave the state? You're not tellin' me something. You're not tellin' me a lot.
jesse		It ain't safe here no more. You wanted out? This is out.
jesse		Lucian took the stones. Talked about jobs. High-end, boxcar.
bud		Your family's safe now.  Let's go to work.
kiersey		There's a variety of matters to discuss today, gentlemen. Eddie Moran's trial starts next week. One of the jurors reached out. He's asking six thousand up front plus a job at four hundred a week. That guarantees a hung jury with a push for an acquittal.
lucian		Three hundred. Give him a no-show at the trucking firm.
kiersey		 Construction on the building Morris brought us, in south-east Florida, is complete. Every unit sold. We should see revenues of one point four million over our original projections.
kiersey		Lastly, our "friends" from the Middle East. They put a final offer on the table. They'll fund our operation in Louisiana if we agree to act on their behalf. Political targets mostly, on the basis of our approval...  I advise we do a test case. Perhaps a sample of their resources.
lucian		"Final offer?" Demands...  You believe they're travelin' all the way to Louisiana just to get fuckin' robbed?
lucian		I want you runnin' point on this one...
jesse		I'll be honest, I was hopin' for somethin' bigger.
lucian		What do you got in mind?
jesse		How 'bout a few of them heads off the list?
lucian		We got guys for that now. Catfish, Buzz. What do you want to go back to that for?
jesse		The money's worth twice this. Bring back a head it's fifteen grand; Bring a heart, it's thirty, right?
lucian		Tell you what. Do this other thing we got lined up...  Then I'll give you that taste.
fitch		There's pressure from Washington. They send compliments for Jesse's work. But our primary concern is that list. I need names we can protect.
bud		We know that, Fitch. He's workin' on it.
fitch		If Jesse can just get a direct order... from Lucian to him, on a wire--
bud		--A wire?! He just went back to work, you want him to wear a fuckin' wire?  Put a tap on that God damn lawyer's phone, that's what you should do.
fitch		He's an attorney, Carter. Anything we get would be inadmissable.
bud		It's information, Fitch.
fitch		Bud. We need Jesse to engage Lucian on the record. Otherwise it's just hearsay. He's disconnected from everything, like a ghost.
jesse		 Catfish.
catfish		Go 'head. Count it.
naseem		There a problem?
jesse		No problem. Money's all there.
catfish		'The fuck you lookin' at...?
jesse		 Catfish, would you shut the fuck up? This ain't the time.
naseem		 Yes, listen to your boss.
catfish		What?! What fuckin' "boss?" You best watch your ass, sand nigger.
naseem		Piece of shit--!
jesse		Take it easy! Take it easy!
a voice		 ATF! THE PERIMETER'S SURROUNDED!
jesse		You're a piece of work, Catfish.
catfish		Them niggers crossed the line...I had to burn 'em--
jesse		--You had to keep your mouth shut! On a job, you don't do fuckin' shit 'less I say!
catfish		'The fuck off me--!
jesse		 Fuck me up again, you hear me? I'll leave you where I find you. Got that?
jesse		Unload the fuckin' truck.
fitch		Keep your voice down! This was out of my control!
bud		I'm telling you, your agents best pull their shit together! Who the hell y'all trying to protect?!
fitch		Look, Carter. This is a joint task force with multiple agendas, that run up the chain of command through me. Intel came forth at the eleventh hour that Naseem Kazuri - an international arms dealer - would be present at this meet. ATF was tasked to observe and report.
bud		That ain't what they did--!
fitch		--No! Because your informant--
bud		My informant, that's right!--
fitch		--Your informant and his psychopath crew greased half our political interests -- over a bag of fake cash! You weren't informed, so what?
bud		Well I better be informed! 'Cause this ain't fallin' short! Now, any of y'all got a collaborative agenda in the works? I want to see it. These other agencies, what time-lines they lookin' at? What deadlines and why?
fitch		Above your pay-grade--
bud		 And is there a purposeful lack of communication between competing agencies, who are right now charting future mistakes, as we fuckin' speak?!
fitch		That's not your concern, Carter!
bud		We're not talkin' about me!!
braddock		Bud!
bud		 What?!
braddock		You're over-involved here.
braddock		I'll handle this.
fitch		Thanks for coming down, Mike. He's been berating my agents for the last hour.
fitch		We're trying to band-aid a situation here, and frankly, Carter's preference for thug tactics isn't helping. It'll all be in my report...
braddock		 "Isn't helping?"
braddock		"Isn't helping?" Let's not miss what happened here, Fitch. We work for the same cause doesn't mean we work for you. What are you gonna do now? Send Jesse back out? Earn his trust? Bud Carter delivered the biggest informant in the history of this state to your lap, and you and the people you work for are gonna let it go to shit.  You can expect that will be in my report.
morris		Look. I had no previous knowledge of any business with Muslims. So if stealing me here in the middle of the night, is some kind of accusation--
lucian		I'm not accusing you, Mr. Morris. But I do find it interesting that right about the time I employ you, my operation starts having problems.
morris		Yes, but--
lucian		That is interesting...isn't it?
lucian		I want to know if this was an isolated incident. If the ATF impeding on my work is the result of a deeper threat.
morris		What are you suggesting?
lucian		I'm suggesting you contact your friends in Washington.
morris		With all due respect, Mr. Adams, that's not what I was retained for.
lucian		Well now it is.
morris		That sort of information requires clearance I don't have. If I start sniffing around, people are going to ask questions.
lucian		I'm asking questions, Mr. Morris. And I'm getting impatient.
lucian		You don't leave here till I get answers.
jesse		It's me.
jesse		I'm okay. Just need to hear your voice. How's little Ray...?
bud		Where the hell you been?  Two days missin', you broke protocol. Three, and you're a flight risk. Agents'll hunt your ass down.
jesse		 I can't keep doin' this. I can't fuckin' breathe. Even the shadows got eyes.
bud		This is the job. If I don't hear from you, I can't protect you.
jesse		 Protect me?! I about got my head fuckin' shot off, 'cause your guys was "protecting" me!
bud		Those ain't my guys!
jesse		I don't give a fuck-- I don't want your protection! I want out!
bud		There is no "out." Not for either of us. Not till it's done...  Get me that list.
bud		I'm losin' him, Mike...
braddock		Just relax. We gotta let things settle, that's all.
bud		It ain't gonna settle, it's gonna blow. I can feel it.
braddock		What do you want me to do?
bud		Push 'em back.
braddock		Who?
bud		The Feds. All these suits, fuckin' outsiders. Everyone. Get me some room. Some time to reel this thing in.
braddock		I'll talk to Nokes. 'See what I can do.
morris		There's an investigation underway, funded by the U.S. Attorney. And you're the target.
morris		They're receiving assistance from both the ATF and FBI, who are stationed right here in Henderson.
lucian		 How long they been active?
morris		My sources tell me three months.
lucian		Three months...
kiersey		 This is U.S. Attorney John Nokes, at the helm. He's been after us for years.
lucian		Who they got for a mouthpiece?
morris		A "mouthpiece"?
lucian		Who's the rat in the woodpile? Who the fuck's giving 'em information?
morris		I couldn't dig that deep. But it's someone close.  I suggest you gentlemen disband. Immediately.
kiersey		Lucian...
lucian		Yeah.
kiersey		The investigation's local point is a detective out of East Baton Rouge.  His name's Bud Carter.
lucian		Couldn't sleep.
jesse		Got somethin' on your mind?
lucian		 There's been an adjustment to the list, Jesse...
lucian		We got this...heathen. A whore of an Irishman...down in Baton Rouge. He's protected. Got a lot of guys around him. That's why it pays. That's why nobody wants the job... That's why we're here talkin'.
jesse		Who is it?
lucian		This cop... he's got a mouthpiece... somewhere. Ain't yet figured out who. In the meantime, shut him down.
jesse		It's done.
buzz		That's his truck.
catfish		 Let's see what he does.
catfish		The fuck's takin' so long?  I would've shot that pig dead already... 'made a pulled-pork sandwich.
buzz		Give him a minute. That's a cop, lives there.
catfish		 I'll give him two.
bud		Jesse. 'The hell you doin' here?
jesse		You been made, Bud. We gotta skin out.
catfish		Somethin's wrong...
buzz		Relax, Catfish. You said two minutes.
catfish		Fuck you, man! This don't feel right.
buzz		Just give it a second.  A few more seconds, right guys?
catfish		Let's kill 'em both. Let's do it now, right now, let's go--
buzz		Catfish--
catfish		 LET'S GO!!!
bud		 Hey. Meet me at the office in ten minutes. Cobb and Marandino too.
bud		 I'll explain later. Just get there. Now.
bud		 Let's hit it.
catfish		That's them! Together, you see?!
buzz		I see 'em--
catfish		You see?! They're fuckin' dead!
shepard		What the fuck?
jesse		 Fuck!
bud		Shepard!  No...
bud		 We run 'em now, Mike. Right fuckin' now!
braddock		 What do you need?
cobb		No one here, Bud...
doctor		His bleeding's under control. There's tissue damage. Projectile fragmentation in the right forearm. We have most of it removed. Two fingers are gone. A portion of the palm. There's no chance of reconstruction.  I'll be monitoring his vitals.
braddock		 You have to let go now.
braddock		It's over.
bud		It's not.
braddock		 The cover's blown. Lucian's gone. There ain't nothin' left on this one.
braddock		Get to a safe-house, Bud.  'Squad car over there is your's.
cobb		...His cranium was smashed with a lead pipe. Then the plastic bag. He choked to death while it filled up with blood.
bud		Got I.D.?
cobb		'Name's Richard Morris. He's a top dog lawyer-lobbyist out of Washington.
bud		Put a tap on that line.
cobb		Braddock ain't gonna like it.
bud		Do it.
braddock		Bud. I just got off with Nokes.
bud		And?
braddock		We got a problem.
bud		Give us a minute, Doc.
jesse		Where you been?
tom		Anything else while we're out, Mrs. Wheeler?
lynn		No thank you.
jesse		There's a dozen cops comin' in and outta this place. No one's sayin' shit. 'The hell's goin' on?
jesse		Get me out of here, Bud. I want to see my family.
bud		There is no family.
bud		I'm sorry...
bartender		 He's out of his mind. 'Asked him to slow down; and he punched me in the face.
cobb		 Hey, Pete. You alright?
bartender		I'm alright. The bar ain't.
marandino		 We'll smooth it out. Clear the street.
bud		Y'all fuck with me? Huh? You want to fuck with me?
cobb		Jesus Christ.
bud		'Look at me when I talk to you.  You try and kill me? You like killin' women and kids?
marandino		Easy, Bud... Easy...
cobb		We got you here, Bud... It's just us. Hear me?
cobb		Let's go home...
police officer		 Sign this.
nokes		This is an atrocity, gentlemen. Incompetence at it's highest level. I gave you my name. My resources. My trust...Carte blanche. And now this handsome face of mine...can't step foot in Washington, for fear of being laughed off the Hill.
nokes		Now, I'd love to point to Local on this. But truth is, they've carried their weight. We are federally fucked...  Because Federal fucked up.
nokes		So. Best idea wins, gentlemen. Chain of command? Point of procedure? I don't give a fuck. That's out the window, just like our informant...  I want Jesse Wheeler found.
braddock		You smell like a fuckin' distillery, Bud. Clean up... 'find your boy.
jesse		Get out.
jesse		We got some shit to discuss.
buzz		Ain't got nothin' to say to you, Wheeler.
buzz		FUCK! FUCK! OH, FUCK!
jesse		House call.
jesse		Where's Lucian?!
buzz		I don't know!
buzz		NO ONE KNOWS WHERE LUCIAN IS! NO ONE KNOWS-
buzz		...fuck...
jesse		Who killed my family?
buzz		Ah shit, man!
jesse		 WHO KILLED 'EM?! CATFISH?!
buzz		CATFISH, YES, YEAH! FUCKIN' CATFISH!
buzz		 WAIT, WAIT! WHAT ARE YOU DOIN'?!
buzz		 NO! NO, NO, NO, DON'T!! DON'T!!
cobb		We've had a tap on Kiersey's line forty eight hours now. It's clean. Whatever's he's up to, Bud, it ain't comin' through the front door.
fitch		Carter! We need to talk.
bud		Get out of my way, Fitch.
fitch		 This is my investigation. Jesse's cowboy bullshit is not how it's done!
bud		While your agents build their cases and set for court, he'll erase the debt owed to all of you. Overnight.
fitch		So you're implying I should thank him?
fitch		Look, Carter, whether we like it or not, you and I have to work together on this. We entice Jesse back. I'll get him full protection, if he agrees to testify.
bud		That'll never happen.
fitch		Why the hell not?!
bud		 'Cause it's over, Fitch. It's done. He has nothing. Why do you think he lit that fire? To plant a flag. To let us know he doesn't need our protection. Doesn't want it. He would've just left 'em for dead.
fitch		For God sakes, listen to me! I'm not taking the fall for this! The plan is--
bud		No, the truth is, Fitch, you ain't got balls big enough to relate to this guy. If you had listened to me, we wouldn't be in this situation. Jesse wouldn't be in this situation. And you wouldn't be askin' stupid fuckin' questions!  I'll bring him in myself. Just keep your agents off my ass.
kiersey		Get back to the office. Follow up on the Arthur Bierce case. I need names and numbers on my desk by three pm.
kiersey		OH, CHRIST! JESUS CHRIST! MY HANDS!
bud		You know who I am?
kiersey		OPEN THE TRUNK! PLEASE! OPEN THE TRUNK!
bud		You know who the fuck I am?!
kiersey		YES!
bud		Who's Richard Morris?! Why was he killed?
bud		I'll break every fuckin' bone you got. Start talkin'.
kiersey		 I can't-- I can't--
bud		 Can't what?! What can't you do?!
bud		You piece of shit, talk!
kiersey		 He made Jesse...The investigation... Everything...
bud		His family?
kiersey		Everything! After that, he was just a loose end!
bud		Where's Lucian Adams?
kiersey		I don't know!
bud		Lucian's goin' down. You either go down together, or you give him to me.
kiersey		 I never talk to him directly! I swear, they page me--
kiersey		--Every night at five, for a six o'clock call! They page from different numbers!
bud		You're a dead man, Kiersey.
tattoo artist		'Bout out of room, Catfish. You best start collectin' scalps.
catfish		 What the fuck?!
bud		What do you got?
marandino		He's in the French Quarter. All numbers paging Kiersey between five and six p.m., the last seventy-two hours, are pay phones within a three mile radius.
bud		Alright.
cobb		Bud, you gotta talk to Braddock. He's lookin' for you, he's fuckin' pissed.
bud		Hold him off. I'll square it with him when I get to the Quarter.
jesse		I'm gonna ask questions...
jesse		When I'm satisfied with your answers, I'm gonna kill you. How long it takes and how much blood you want to spill...that's up to you.
catfish		What do you want to know? Want to hear about your brother? How we had him shot up with strychnine? How he died slow death?
catfish		OH, YOU SONOFABITCH!!!
jesse		Four days ago, my wife and son were killed.  I hear you took the contract?
catfish		Forty-four pounds, Miznay-Schardin. Like you taught me. Fuck yeah, I took it. Blew your bitch and kid sky high.
catfish		MOTHERFUCKER!!!
catfish		 OH, YOU'RE GONNA DIE! YOU'RE GONNA FUCKIN' DIE!
jesse		Where's Lucian?
jesse		Where's he hidin' out?
catfish		Get fucked.
jesse		Where's Lucian?
jesse		Where's Lucian?
catfish		 New Orleans...
jesse		New Orleans. Where in New Orleans?
catfish		New Orleans...
jesse		 I believe you.
bud		 It's Bud. I got a number.
cobb		 Governor Nicholls Wharf. Between St. Ann and Toulouse. You're a half mile south.
bud		Get your ass down here.
bud		Here we go.
jacket		Should've been on the road twenty minutes ago. Hurry it up.
security guard		What's goin' on, Jack?
mills		Talk to me.
jacket		Got nothin' to tell. Kiersey didn't call.
mills		Try his office?
jacket		'Ain't there. His home neither.
mills		 Keep pagin' him.
bud		C'mon. Show me somethin'.
braddock		Mr. Kiersey. I'm Captain Mike Braddock. How can I help you?
kiersey		Detective Bud Carter is out of control!
braddock		 Detective "Lieutenant." Now how can I help you?
kiersey		How long till you make an arrest in your investigation of Lucian Adams?
kiersey		I'm willing to provide you with documents and information to secure his conviction.
braddock		Why?
kiersey		Why do you think? I'm afraid for my life.  I'll confirm whatever Jesse Wheeler's given you.
cobb		 Bud, you see this?
cobb		 They're on the second floor.
braddock		You better have something fuckin' good.
bud		I'm in the French Quarter. Sittin' on AB activity.
braddock		Lucian?
bud		Don't know yet. I got Harold Kay so far.
bud		Looks like they own the God damn block.
braddock		Well I got Kiersey just walked in. Two fractured wrists and scared as all hell.
bud		I can explain--
braddock		He wants to make a deal, Bud. I can keep Nokes in the dark twenty-four hours, but that's it.
bud		 Hold on, Mike.
bud		 Go ahead...
cobb		 Holy shit.
bud		 Mike, I've got Edgar Bingham now. Just showed with two of his crew, for a sit down with Kay.
bud		 Got 'em.
bud		 Mike, I need Kiersey to place a call. Five minutes, or this opportunity's gone.
braddock		 Give me the number...
mills		 Excuse me.
mills		 Yeah...
kiersey		I apologize. I've been tooth and nail with the D.A., in court, all day.
kiersey		Everything's fine. Just lay low. Regular time tomorrow.
kiersey		Now get me protection.
bingham		So?
mills		All good. Let's eat.
marandino		 Call went down.
cobb		Just lookin' for a drink and a bite to eat.
cobb		Alright. Thanks.
bud		 We wait.
marandino		 I've got a man on the south balcony. Armed.
marandino		 Second man at the door now. Street level. Possibly armed.
marandino		 A Cadillac and a Grand Marquis, just pulled in the alley.
marandino		 Bud... we got Lucian Adams...
bud		 Hold position. Give me a head count.
marandino		 I need eyes on a single, white male crossing Esplanade. Possible intent...
bud		 It's Jesse...
bud		Let him go.
bud		 Let him go.
bud		 That's exactly what we're gonna do! We got no way inside. Let Jesse go in hard and draw fire. He pushes Lucian out to us. Stand the fuck down. I'm on my way.
marandino		 I don't see him. I got nothin'...
marandino		Fuck!
marandino		 Shots fired! Shots fired!
bud		 Call it in! Local and SWAT! Get the place surrounded!
jacket		Give me that fuckin' shotgun!
cobb		 POLICE! TAKE YOUR HANDS OFF THE GUN! STEP FUCKIN' BACK!!
bud		Jam the alley! No one goes in or out!
cobb		Down! Get down!
bud		Stay on the door! I'm goin' in!
bud		 I got him... I got Lucian.
bud		Want a cup of coffee?
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Day_at_Black_Rock.txt****

hastings		 Stopping...?
conductor		 Man. They look woebegone and far away.
macreedy		 I'll only be here twenty-four hours.
conductor		In a place like this, it could be a lifetime.  Good luck, Mr. Macreedy.
hastings		You for Black Rock?
macreedy		 That's right.
hastings		 There must be some mistake. I'm Hastings, the telegraph agent. Nobody told me the train was stopping.
macreedy		 They didn't?
hastings		 I just said they didn't, and they ought to. What I -- want to know, why didn't they?
macreedy		 Probably didn't think it was important.
hastings		Important?! It's the first time the streamliner stopped here in four years.  You being met? You visiting folks or something? I mean, whatd'ya want?
macreedy		I want to go to Adobe Flat. Any cabs available?
hastings		 No cabs.
macreedy		Where's the hotel?
macreedy		 I asked where's the hotel?
macreedy		Thanks.
hastings		 Hello, Pete? Now, listen...
macreedy		 'Afternoon.
coley		 Anything I can do for you?
macreedy		You run this hotel?
coley		No.
macreedy		 Then there's nothing you can do for me.
hector		 Find Smith!
macreedy		 I'd like a room.
pete		All filled up.
macreedy		 Got any idea where I might --
pete		 This is 1945, mister. There's been a war on.
macreedy		I thought it ended a couple of months ago.
pete		Yeah, but the O.P.A. lingers on.
pete		You don't know about the O.P.A...
macreedy		 Tell me.
pete		Well, for establishments with less'n fifty rooms hotel keepers got to report regularly about...
pete		...about tenants and... and... registration...  There are penalties imposed...
macreedy		 You seem to have lots of vacancies.
pete		 Well... as I said...
macreedy		Lots of vacancies.
pete		They're everyone of 'em locked up. Some are show rooms...
macreedy		Yes...?
pete		 You understand...?
macreedy		Not really. But while I'm pondering it, get a room ready. Just for tonight.  This one.
macreedy		 Sure could use a bath. Where is it?
pete		Head of the stairs.
macreedy		I don't know just why you're interested -- but the name's Macreedy. I'm...  It's all in the ledger.
hector		 You look like you need a hand.
hector		 I wanna know everything he does, Pete. Check every call -- any mail.
pete		 And in the meantime...?
hector		 ...see if he's got any iron in his blood...
macreedy		 I think you have the wrong room.
hector		 You think so?
hector		What else you got on your mind?
macreedy		Nothing, I guess.
hector		If you had a mind, boy, you'd of heard what Pete downstairs said. He said these here rooms are for us cowboys. For our every wish and comfort.
macreedy		And this, I guess, is yours?
hector		When I'm in town. And I'm in town, as any fool can see. You see that, don't you, boy?
macreedy		I guess I do. Would you mind very much if I sort of...  ...clean up this mess and get another room?
hector		Not at all. But if you want this room real bad...  If a man don't claim what's rightfully his'n, he's nuthin'. What do you think?
macreedy		I guess so.
hector		You guess so. But still you ain't claimin' this room?
macreedy		I guess not.
hector		You're all the time guessin', boy. Don't you ever know anything?
macreedy		One thing I know. Since I got off the train, I've been needled. Why?
hector		 I guess I don't rightly know.
doc		 Who?
sam		 What do you think, Doc?
doc		Why ask me? He's no salesman, that's sure.  Unless he's peddling dynamite.
sam		 Maybe he's a cop, or something...
doc		Ever see a cop with a stiff arm?
sam		 Maybe his arm's all right. Maybe he's just holding tight to something in his pocket...
doc		 Why are you so interested, Sam?
sam		Who, me?
doc		I mean, if I was that interested...  ...I'd ask him.
macreedy		Hey! Hold it!
macreedy		Got any cigarettes?
pete		This is all.
pete		How long you staying?
macreedy		In my new room, you mean?  I'm staying.
pete		I mean, in the hotel.
macreedy		Just about twenty-four hours.  Why?
pete		 I... I was just askin'.
macreedy		 Why? You expecting a convention?
pete		 I was just askin'.
macreedy		Stale.
macreedy		Where can I rent a car?
pete		I don't know.
macreedy		 Let's put it this way -- if I had a car and if I wanted to put gas in it, where would I go?
pete		 But you don't have a car.
doc		 You might try the garage at the end of the street.
macreedy		Thanks.
macreedy		 Here we go again.
pete		 That's all I know about him, Mr. Smith.
smith		 Sit down.
coley		 I was only...
smith		 Sit down.
hector		 Pretty cool guy.
smith		Doesn't push easy?
hector		 That's it -- that's just it. He pushes too easy. Maybe we oughtta...
smith		What do you want, Doc?
doc		Nothing.  Not that I have the slightest idea.
smith		You wonder too much, and you talk too much.  It's a bad parlay, Doc.
doc		I hold no truck with silence.  I got nothing to hide.
hector		 What're you tryin' to say?
doc		Nothing, man. It's just, you worry about the stranger only if you look at him...  ...from a certain aspect.
smith		How do you look at him, Doc?
doc		 With the innocence of a fresh-laid egg.
smith		 And some day I'll have Coley wash out your mouth with lye.
macreedy		Hi, T.J.
macreedy		This your garage?
macreedy		 Where's the man it belongs to?
macreedy		Where'd she go?
macreedy		When will she be back?
macreedy		 Thanks.
hastings		I called the Circle T. He ain't got business there -- not if they don't know him. Right, Mr. Smith?
smith		 Send a wire to Nick Gandi in Los Angeles. Tell him to find out all he can about John J. Macreedy. Tell him I want to know fast. Sign my name.
hastings		What was that?
smith		Nick Gandi. G-A-N-D-I. Care of the Blake Hotel.
coley		 Who's Gandi?
smith		He's a private detective.  I drive to L.A. now and then.
hector		 He'll get us the dope?
smith		He'll get us anything, for twenty bucks a day and expenses.  Hector, you worry too fast and too easy.
hector		It's just, I don't like it.
coley		Maybe he's just passing through.
hector		Don't bet on it. He can only mean trouble.
smith		 Hector, you're jumpy as a stall horse.
hector		 We oughtta see him... talk to him.
smith		 You tried -- where'd it get you?
hector		 I only thought...
smith		Sure. You only thought.
coley		 What do we do?
smith		What do you do? You wait. Like Pete here. Right, Pete?
smith		That's all you do. But while you wait... I talk to him.
doc		 Hey!
doc		Now what do you know?  Now what do you suppose he'd want to see the Sheriff about?
tim		Hold it, friend.
tim		 I ain't hankerin' to get locked in my own jail.
macreedy		Sorry. I thought you were a guest.
tim		As it happens, I'm the host.
tim		Snort?
macreedy		No, thanks.
tim		Don't blame you. It's awful.
tim		 What're you lookin' at?
macreedy		 You tell me.
tim		 I ain't always this bad -- just that last night me and my pal Doc Velie, we did a little celebratin'. At least I did.
macreedy		What were you celebrating?
tim		 What do you want?
macreedy		My name's Macreedy. I came in on the Streamliner.
tim		You what?
macreedy		I said I came in...
tim		 You ain't from around here. Up Tucson way -- Phoenix? Mesa? You ain't sellin' cattle nor seed nor nothin' like that?
macreedy		No.  All I want from you is a little information. I've got to get to a place called Adobe Flat.
tim		 This ain't no information bureau.
macreedy		One thing about Black Rock -- everybody's polite. Makes for gracious living.
tim		Nobody asked you here.
macreedy		How do you know? 
tim		 What about Adobe Flat?
macreedy		I'm looking for a man named Komako.
macreedy		Almost a disaster.
tim		 You move fast for a crip... for a big man.
macreedy		What about Komako?
tim		 If there's no further questions...
smith		 Mr. Macreedy.
macreedy		That's the friendliest word I've heard since I got here.
smith		 I want to apologize for some of the folks in town.
macreedy		They act like they're sitting on a keg.
smith		A keg...? Of what?
macreedy		I don't know. Maybe diamonds. Maybe gunpowder.
smith		 No. Nothing like that. We're a little suspicious of strangers is all. Hangover from the old days. The old West.
macreedy		I thought the tradition of the old West was hospitality.
smith		 Going to be around for a while?
macreedy		Could be.
smith		How would you like to go hunting tomorrow? I'd be proud to have you as my guest.
macreedy		Thanks, but I'm afraid not.
smith		 I'm sorry. I... What I mean is -- if there's anything I can do while you're around...
macreedy		I'm looking for...  Never mind. Thanks, anyway.
smith		 You're looking for what, Mr. Macreedy?
macreedy		 A man named Komako.
smith		 Komako -- Sure, I remember him -- Japanese farmer. Never had a chance.
macreedy		No?
smith		He got here in '41 -- just before Pearl Harbor. Three months later he was shipped to one of those relocation centers.  Tough.
macreedy		Which one did he go to?
smith		Who knows?
macreedy		You think maybe if I wrote him, the letter would be forwarded?
smith		I'm sure it would. Write your letter. I'll see it gets out tonight.
macreedy		It wouldn't be too much trouble?
smith		No trouble at all.
macreedy		Funny. Because I think it would be a great deal of trouble for you. It's been a great deal of trouble for me.
macreedy		I wrote these letters to Komako. They weren't forwarded. They were returned -- address unknown.  So I guess there's nothing you can do for me, after all.
macreedy		 Need a little help?
liz		I can manage.
macreedy		Well, I need a little help.  I'd like to rent your jeep.
liz		It'll be two dollars an hour, gas extra, and ten dollars for my time.
smith		 Aren't you going to ask him where he wants to go?
smith		He wants to go to Adobe Flat.
macreedy		The road's marked?
liz		 Yeah. It's about six -- seven miles down...
macreedy		Then I won't need your time.
liz		 I thought you might... need a little help.
macreedy		I can manage.
smith		Liz. Do you have a license to rent cars? You could get into trouble.
macreedy		It's all right. I won't mention it to the Sheriff.
smith		 You shouldn't have done that.
liz		I thought it would be better if he went out there and got done with it.  I mean, what could he find out?
smith		 This is liable to be the hardest ten dollars you ever earned in your life.
smith		 What did he want -- the stranger?
tim		 You think he'll kick up a storm?
smith		 A storm? About what?
tim		I don't know. All I know, I don't want trouble around here.  Never again.
smith		Trouble? You don't know anything about Komako, now do you, Tim?
tim		I do not. That's the point.
smith		The point is, what you don't know can't hurt you.
tim		Maybe there's something I ought to know. Maybe I ought to ask you... before the stranger comes back and starts breathing down my neck.
smith		 Tim, you're a lost ball in the high weeds. I told you a long time ago, nothing happened for you to worry about.
tim		 And I'm still the law.
smith		Then do your job, Tim.
tim		What is my job, Mr. Smith? Maybe I'd better find out before Macreedy does it for me.
smith		 Macreedy'll do nothing, Tim. And neither will you.
tim		Suppose I decide to try?
smith		That would be dangerous. You got the body of a hippo, Tim, but the brain of a rabbit. Don't overtax it.
tim		 Yes, Mr. Smith.
hector		 From L.A.?
hastings		Yeah! From that private detective!
hector		 What does he say? Who is this guy?
hastings		Never heard of him, that's what he says! He checked and there's no John J. Macreedy. No listing -- no record -- no information. Nothing.
pete		 Where does that leave us?
coley		I'll tell you where...
smith		Shut up!
smith		 Now, Coley...?
coley		 I think Macreedy's a nothing. A nobody.
smith		Is he?
coley		So there's nothing to worry about.
smith		Isn't there?  You got brains, you have.
coley		 Suppose he finds out?
smith		A nobody like Macreedy can raise a pretty big stink. The point is... who would miss a nobody like Macreedy if he just, say, disappeared? Who, Coley?
smith		 Coley!
coley		 Huh?
pete		Why don't we wait...
smith		Wait for what?
pete		I mean, maybe he won't find anything. Maybe he'll just go away.
smith		Not Macreedy. I know those maimed guys. Their minds get twisted. They put on hair shirts and act like martyrs. They're all of 'em do- gooders, trouble makers, freaks.
pete		But there's no danger yet. Let's wait and see.
smith		 ...your own sister -- acts like a fool.
pete		 She's just a kid.
smith		 And he says what's the danger.
smith		 Of course, if you want to take the chance...
coley		 Not me.
smith		All right, then...
pete		It's not all right! You're so mighty quick to kill -- he's not an animal!
smith		 You sniveling toad! I'm saving your neck! If I don't, who will?
pete		 All I said...
smith		Who will?! Doc? Tim? Your sister, with the rocks in her head?
smith		One thing about your sister -- she's got twice the guts you have. You're only fit for running away.
coley		It's too late for that.  He's in this, and he ain't running no place.
smith		 All right, then...
tim		Let Smith find himself a new boy. I can't take it another day.  They just laugh.
doc		I don't laugh, Tim.
tim		Why don't you?
doc		Cut it out, Tim.
tim		You should!
doc		In the name of well-adjusted manhood, snap out of it. You're going to get a complex or something.
tim		Four years ago if I'd of done my job... if I'd of checked up and found out what happened. But I didn't! Just like Smith figured.
doc		What could you have found out? They told you a story. You had to believe it.
tim		Do you believe it?
tim		Do you know what happened?
doc		I don't know.  I lead a quiet, contemplative life.
tim		Me, I didn't even try to find out.  Me... I did nothin'. And that's what's eatin' me. What kind of prescription you got for that?
doc		I don't know. I've never been able to find one for myself.
doc		Only one thing -- don't quit, Tim.
tim		Why not?
doc		Maybe this feller Macreedy has the prescription.
coley		Well, if it's not Macreedy - the world's champion road hog.
macreedy		Yeah. It's a small world.
coley		But such an unfriendly one. Now why did you want to crowd me off the road?
macreedy		 I'm kind of sorry if I've incurred your displeasure.
coley		Look what you did to my car.
macreedy		If there's anything I can do to make up for it...
coley		You ought to be careful, man -- all that one-arm driving.
macreedy		I'd be glad to pay the damages.
coley		It's a threat to life and limb.
macreedy		Fortunately no one was hurt.
coley		You could get yourself killed that way -- nosin' all over the countryside.
macreedy		That's the real danger, I can see that.
coley		Why that's pretty smart of you. How long you intend to keep it up?
macreedy		I'm getting out of here, right now.
macreedy		 Still expecting that convention?
pete		 What...?
macreedy		If you're expecting any extra cowboys, my room is available.
pete		You're checking out?
macreedy		 Is there a train through here tonight?
pete		Nothing till tomorrow morning. The streamliner.
macreedy		I know that. How about freights?  Milk train?
pete		Tomorrow. After the streamliner.
macreedy		Busses?
pete		Closest stop is Sand City -- thirty- two miles away.  You're in such a hurry, you should have never got off here.
macreedy		I'm inclined to agree with you.
macreedy		Anybody home?
liz		 If you're looking for the jeep key...
liz		...it's not there...
macreedy		 In that case, where do you suggest I look?
liz		 The jeep's not for rent.
macreedy		It was, just a few hours ago.
liz		 Things change.
macreedy		 Sure. And Smith is the kid who changes 'em.
macreedy		Miss Brooks.  What's the matter with this town of yours?
liz		Nothing. It's none of your concern.
macreedy		Then why are they all so concerned about me?
liz		Am I concerned?
macreedy		No, you're not. But...
liz		But what?
macreedy		 But it strikes me you're a little too unconcerned. So unconcerned you won't even rent me a jeep.
liz		 I don't run a taxi service. I don't have a license.
macreedy		I wish others in this town were as scrupulously devoted to law and order as you are.
liz		 Why don't you lay off! If you don't like it here, go back where you came from!
macreedy		Funny thing. They try to kill me, and you feel persecuted.
liz		I don't want to get involved.
macreedy		Involved in what?
liz		 Whatever you're up to. Whatever happens, I've got to go on living here. These people are my neighbors, my friends.
macreedy		All of them?
liz		 This is my town, Mr. Macreedy, like it or not. Whatever happened here, it was long ago, now it's... it's...
macreedy		 Whatever did happen, you don't seem to like it. Why do you stick around?
liz		 Because of my brother. Pete. He'd never leave.
macreedy		Didn't you ever think of going without him. You're sort of independent and he's... he's...
liz		Weak. I know. That's why I couldn't leave him.
macreedy		 What did your brother do?
liz		He... I...  What do you care? What do you care about Black Rock?
macreedy		Nothing much. Only, there're not many places like this in America -- but even one is too many. Because I think something sort of bad happened here.  Something I can't find the handle to...
liz		You just think so. You don't know.
macreedy		This much I know -- the rule of law has been suspended in this town. The gorillas have taken over.
liz		You're a fine one to talk! You come in here, sneaking around, trying to steal the key to my jeep.
macreedy		I kind of had a notion that was the only way I could get it.
macreedy		 Was I wrong, Miss Brooks?
smith		 I'd like to ask you a few questions... as long as you're around...
macreedy		 I'm around all right.
macreedy		 You probably know that Miss Brooks is no longer in the car rental business?
smith		 Good. I wouldn't want to see that girl get into trouble...
macreedy		You wouldn't?
smith		...what with rental permits, gas rationing... you know what I mean.
macreedy		Sure. I admire your sturdy sense of responsibility.
smith		 It's just, a girl like that has a future.
macreedy		Let's talk about my future.
smith		 Do you have the time?
macreedy		I don't seem to be going any place.
smith		 I hear you handle a jeep real well.
macreedy		I have a way with jeeps. A certain familiarity.
smith		I think I understand. You're an Army man.  Where'd you get it?
macreedy		Italy.
smith		 Tough. I tried to get in myself, the day after those rats bombed Pearl Harbor.
macreedy		What stopped you?
smith		The physical. They wouldn't take me. The morning after Pearl, I was the first man in line at Marine recruiting in Sand City. And they wouldn't take me.
macreedy		 Tough.
smith		What do you do in Los Angeles, Mr. Macreedy?
macreedy		I'm retired.
smith		You're a pretty young man...
macreedy		You might say I was forced into retirement.
smith		What were you looking for in Adobe Flat?
macreedy		Komako, like I told you. Like you told me, he wasn't there.
macreedy		What's so funny?
smith		Nothing. It's just -- I don't believe you. I believe a man is as big as what he seeks. I believe you're a big man, Mr. Macreedy.
macreedy		Flattery will get you nowhere.
smith		Why would a man like you be looking for a lousy Jap farmer?
macreedy		Maybe I'm not so big.
smith		Yes, you are.  I believe that a man is as big as the things that make him mad. Nobody around here has been big enough to make you mad.
macreedy		What makes you mad, Mr. Smith?
smith		Me...? Nothing in particular.
macreedy		 ...the Japanese make you mad...
smith		That's different. After the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor... after Bataan...
macreedy		...and Komako made you mad.
smith		It's the same thing.  Loyal Japanese-Americans -- that's a laugh. They're mad dogs. Look at Corregidor, the death march.
macreedy		What did Komako have to do with Corregidor?
smith		Wasn't he a Jap? Look, Macreedy, there's a law in this county against shooting dogs. But if I see a mad dog loose, I don't wait for him to bite me.  I swear, you're beginning to make me mad.
macreedy		 All strangers do.
smith		Not all. Some of 'em. When they come here snooping.
macreedy		Snooping for what?
smith		I mean, outsiders coming around, looking for something.
macreedy		 For what?
smith		I don't know. People are always looking for something in this part of the West. To the historian, it's the "Old West." To the book writers, it's the "Wild West." To the businessmen, it's the "Undeveloped West." They all say we're backward and poor, and I guess we are.  I just wish they'd leave us alone.
macreedy		Leave you alone to do what?
smith		 I don't know what you mean.
macreedy		What happened to Komako?
smith		He went away, I told you. Shortly after he left, a bunch of kids got fooling around out his place. They burned it down. It was one of those things -- you know how kids are.
smith		What's funny?
macreedy		Nothing. Only -- I don't believe you. Any more than I believed you about the letters.
smith		 You don't seem to believe anything I say.
macreedy		 Yes, I do -- about businessmen, for instance. I think a businessman would be interested in Adobe Flat.
smith		Why?
macreedy		All that land lying fallow. Could be put to some use. Like a graveyard.  A historian might be interested, too. Because of the strange customs around here, such as burying cattle...
smith		Burying cattle...?
macreedy		 Something's buried out there.
macreedy		See these wild flowers? That means a grave. I've seen it overseas. I figure it isn't a man's grave or someone would have marked it. Sort of a mystery, isn't it?
smith		Sort of. Maybe you can figure it out.
macreedy		Maybe.
smith		Why not give it a whirl?  ...for a while.
macreedy		Not interested. I got other things to do.
doc		Hi. Pull up a chair.
macreedy		 Can I use your phone?
doc		Help yourself.  You know, you're one of the few people who's ever been back here I can say that to.
macreedy		 What's 4-2-4?
doc		If I've got you pegged -- and I think I have -- you're calling the State Police. But if I was you -- and I'm purely glad I'm not -- I'd look it up myself.  I wouldn't trust anybody around here, including me.
doc		 I know -- don't tell me -- lines all busy. They'll be busy all day.
macreedy		 Don't look at me like that.
doc		Like what?
macreedy		Like I'm a potential customer.
doc		Everybody is -- and I get 'em coming and going.
doc		 First I sell 'em a piece of land. Think they farm it? Nope. They dig for gold.
doc		They rip off the top soil of ten winding hills. They sprint in here, fog-heaved with excitement, lugging nuggets, big and bright and shiny.
doc		 Is it gold?
doc		It is not! Do they quit? They do not!
doc		 Then they decide to farm. Farm! In country so dry you have to prime a man before he can spit, and before you can say "Fat Sam" they're stalled, stranded and starving. They get weevil- brained and buttsprung...
doc		 But why should I bore you with my triumphs?
macreedy		Yeah. I've got a problem of my own.
doc		 They're going to kill you with no hard feelings.
macreedy		 And you'll just sit on your hands and let them.
doc		Don't get waspish with me, young feller.
macreedy		Sorry.
doc		I feel for you, but I'm consumed with apathy. Why should I mix in?
macreedy		To save a life.
doc		I got enough trouble saving my own.  I try to live right and drink my orange juice every day. But mostly I try to mind my own business. Which is something I'd advise you to do.
macreedy		It's a little late for that...
doc		You can still get out of town. And you'd better get out like a whisper.
macreedy		How can I?
doc		 I got sort of a limousine at your disposal.
macreedy		Where is it?
doc		 Out back.
macreedy		 Won't start.
doc		 Something wrong?
macreedy		Just won't start...
hector		 Could be the wirin'. Why don't you look under the hood?
macreedy		For that I thank you.  How much time you think I've got before...?
doc		They'll wait at least till dark.  They'd be afraid to see each other's faces.
macreedy		 Well, so long, Doc. I can't say it's been charming but...
doc		Where are you going?
macreedy		I don't know. But I'm going on foot.
doc		That's no good. You stray ten yards off Main Street, and you'll be stone, cold dead.  That's the situation, in a nut.
hector		It's the wirin', like I said. Now wasn't that a good guess?
macreedy		 It can be fixed.
hector		Easy. Unless, of course, this here wire...  ...got broke or something.
doc		 Do the nice little things, like keep your big fat nose out of my business.
hector		 Yep. It's the wirin'.
doc		 I'm sorry, son. You got to admit, I tried.
macreedy		 Maybe...
doc		Maybe what?
macreedy		If I can't get out of town, maybe I can get the state cops in.
doc		 You tried the phone, didn't you? You know what happened, don't you?
macreedy		There's another way. I'll be seeing you, Doc.
doc		 I hope you'll be seeing me.
hastings		You notifyin' the state po-lice?
macreedy		 That's what it says.
hastings		 Lemonade?
hastings		 It's hot as Billy-be-durned.
hastings		Don't you like lemonade?
macreedy		I never thought much about it.
hastings		It don't have the muzzle velocity of some other drinks drunk around here, but it's good for what ails you.
macreedy		 What ails you, Mr. Hastings?
hastings		Me...?
macreedy		Why are you so upset about...  ...this wire?
hastings		Me...?
macreedy		Are you afraid, Mr. Hastings?
hastings		Me...?  You don't know what it's like, being scared.
macreedy		 You want me to describe the symptoms? Right this minute I'm scared half to death.
hastings		 You should be.
macreedy		Yeah. But not of the state police.
hastings		 Neither am I.
macreedy		Then what are you afraid of? The grave at Adobe Flat? A grave nobody marked, nobody knows anything about.
hastings		That ain't it, either.
macreedy		Is it Smith?  Is it?!
hastings		 Look, Mr. Macreedy. I'm just a good neighbor...
macreedy		To Smith you are. How about to Komako?
hastings		 I never seen Komako in my life. Honest.
macreedy		 Then send that wire, and bring me the answer. You'll do that, won't you?
hastings		 Yes, sir.
krool		I tell you, I won't have anything to do with it.
murtry		 Live and let live, that's what I say.
bentham		 I don't know. I just don't know.
lenard		 You gonna brood about it? Or you want another beer?
bentham		A beer, I guess. Only...
sam		What'll you have?
macreedy		What have you got?
sam		Chili wit' beans.
macreedy		Anything else?
sam		Chili wit'out beans.
sam		You don't like the taste, that's what they make ketchup for.
macreedy		In that case, I'll have it. And a cup of coffee.
coley		 You still around? I thought you didn't like this place.
macreedy		 Going to, or coming from?
coley		Staying put.
macreedy		No comment.
coley		 No comment, he says. No comment, and all the time he's got my chair.
macreedy		I always seem to be taking somebody's place around here.
coley		This seat ain't comfortable.
macreedy		I was afraid of that.
coley		I think I'd like the seat you're on.
smith		 He's as changeable as a prairie fire.
macreedy		 Suppose you tell me where to sit.
coley		 I hope that ain't too much.
macreedy		 Your friend's a very [...] fellow.
smith		 Sort of unpredictable, too. Got a temper like a rattlesnake.
coley		That's me all over. I'm half hoss, half alligator. Mess with me, I'll kick a lung outta you. What do you think of that?
macreedy		No comment.
coley		Talking to you is like pulling teeth. You wear me out.  You're a yellow-bellied Jap lover. Am I right or wrong?
macreedy		You're not only wrong -- you're wrong at the top of your voice.
coley		You don't like my voice?
macreedy		 I think your friend's trying to start something.
smith		Now why-ever would he want to do that?
macreedy		I don't know. Maybe he figures, needle me enough and I'll crack. Maybe I'll even fight back. Then he or Hector -- your other ape -- would beat me to death and cop a plea of self-defense.
smith		I don't think that'll be necessary. You're so scared now you'll probably drown in your own sweat.
coley		Before that happens, couldn't I pick a fight with you if I tied one hand behind me...?
coley		If I tied both hands...?
macreedy		 Or are there too many witnesses present?
smith		 You're still in trouble.
macreedy		So are you.  Whatever happens -- you're lost.
smith		You got things a bit twisted...
macreedy		You killed Komako. Sooner or later you'll go up for it. Not because you killed him -- in this town you probably could have gotten away with it -- but because you didn't even have the guts to do it alone. You put your trust in guys like him...  ...and Hector -- they're not the most dependable of God's creatures. Sooner or later they'll get the idea you're playing them for saps. What'll you do then -- peel them off, one by one? And in the meantime if any one of them breaks, you'll go down hard. Because they got something on you. Something to use when things get tough.
macreedy		And they're getting tougher every minute.
doc		 Man... man-oh-man.
macreedy		Anything for me?
pete		Nothing.
macreedy		Any message -- a telegram?
pete		 Nothing.
doc		 I'm truly sorry to say.
hector		 Your friend's pretty tough.
doc		Yeah. He's wicked. He defends himself when he's attacked.
doc		 Well...? You going to just sit here and let time run out?
macreedy		I'm waiting for a wire. From the state cops.
doc		You sent it through Hastings?  Just don't expect an answer, if that's the way you sent it.
macreedy		 Where's the answer?
smith		You expect an answer -- to a wire that's never sent?
smith		What's so funny?
macreedy		Nothing. Just a thought --  -- a thought dazzling in its purity...
macreedy		 You're in a jam, Hastings. You gave my telegram to Smith.
doc		 You warty wretch! That's a federal offense!
macreedy		 Sheriff, you'd better do something about this.
tim		 I reckon that's right, Mr. Smith...
hector		Don't be a jerk, Tim.
tim		 Divulging information -- there's a law...
smith		Tim, you're pathetic.
tim		 Could be. But I'm still Sheriff.
smith		That's the point. You're not Sheriff any more. You just lost a job, you're so pathetic.
smith		 All right, Sheriff. Take over.
doc		You can't do that!
smith		Can't I? I put him in office. Now I take him out.
hector		Now. You want to register a complaint?
hector		To register a complaint, boy, you've got to have evidence. You got evidence?
hector		You got a big mouth, boy, makin' accusations, disturbin' the peace. There's laws in this county protectin' innocent folks from big mouths. Why, I'd just hate to...
smith		 Come on, Hector.
doc		 It's all right, Tim. We're not licked yet.
tim		 Ain't we? I am.
doc		There comes a time, Tim, when a man's just got to do something.
tim		Not me. I'm useless, and I know it.
doc		 No man is useless, if he's got a friend...
doc		I'm your friend, Tim.
tim		Then let me alone.
doc		 He's going to need you before the night is over.
doc		 And all the useful men are on the other side.
tim		 Lemme alone, I tell ya!
doc		I can't let you alone! I can't let myself alone! Don't you understand that?  Four years ago something terrible happened here. We did nothing about it. Nothing. The whole town fell into a sort of settled melancholy, and the people in it closed their eyes and held their tongues and failed the test with a whimper.
doc		Now something terrible is going to happen again, and in a way we're lucky because we've been given a second chance. And this time I won't close my eyes, I won't hold my tongue, and if I'm needed I won't fail.  And neither will you!
tim		I got such a headache, I'm bewildered. I hurt all over.
macreedy		I know --  Funny, how a man clings to the earth when he feels there's a chance he may never see it again.
doc		There's a difference between clinging to the earth...  ...and crawling on it. You going to stand by and watch forever?
tim		 I ain't gonna watch, and I ain't gonna get into it, either.
tim		I'm gettin' out. I'm sorry, Mr. Macreedy.
pete		 You'd be smart to get out, too.
doc		 There's too many smart guys around here. I'm glad I'm a dummy.
pete		You're a troublesome dummy. You're liable to end up on your own slab...
doc		 I expect to be in a lot more trouble before I die...
pete		Go home, Doc.  He's all washed up.
macreedy		 You think so?
macreedy		I was washed up when I got off that train...
pete		 You shouldn' of got off.
macreedy		Had to. I had one last duty to perform before I resigned from the human race.
doc		 I thought you were going to Los Angeles, that hot-bed of pomp and vanity. Is that resigning from the human race?
macreedy		 L.A.'s a good jumping off place -- for the Islands, for Mexico, Central America.
doc		Why?
macreedy		 I don't know. I was looking for a place to get lost, I guess.
doc		Why?
macreedy		 Thanks to your friend Smith, I found I was wrong.
pete		 Sure. You're a man of action.
macreedy		 ...or silently, without making you feel too uncomfortable... or thankfully, without making your memories of the occasion too unpleasant.
pete		 My memories are so pleasant as it is...
macreedy		 What happened, Pete?
doc		Are you going to tell him -- or you want me to?  Smith owns Adobe Flat. He leased it to Komako -- thought he had cheated him, thought Komako could never even run stock without water. There was never any water on Adobe Flat. Komako dug a well, by hand. He must have went down one hundred and fifty feet.
pete		He got water, plenty. Smith was pretty sore. He didn't like Japs anyway.
doc		That's an understatement.
pete		The day after Pearl Harbor, Smith went to Sand City.
macreedy		 I know. To enlist. He was turned down.
pete		He was sore when he got back. About ten o'clock he started drinking.
macreedy		Ten o'clock in the morning.
pete		Yeah. Hector joined him, and Coley. Then Sam, and about nine p.m. -- me. We were all drunk -- patriotic drunk. We went out to Komako's for a little fun, I guess -- scare him a little.
macreedy		Did you know him?
pete		We'd seen him around some, but none of us knew him. When he heard us coming, he locked the door. Smith started a fire. The Jap came running out. His clothes were burning. Smith shot him. I didn't even know Smith had a gun.
macreedy		Then you all got scared, buried him, kept quiet.
macreedy		 Did Komako have any family besides his son Joe?
doc		 His son...? Nobody around here knew he had a son.
macreedy		He had one. But he's dead, too. He's buried in Italy.
doc		What are you doing here, Mr. Macreedy?
macreedy		Joe Komako died in Italy, saving my life. They gave him a medal. I came here to give it to his father.
pete		 God forgive me...
macreedy		 It'll take a lot of whiskey to wash out your guts...
macreedy		...And it will never help -- not even a barrel full washes away murder!
macreedy		But maybe I'm wrong. Go on -- drink.  You also don't know that it's not enough to feel guilty. It's not enough to confess. It's not enough to say, "Forgive me, I've done wrong."
doc		Take it easy, Macreedy. Sit down.
macreedy		 Sit down?! Or would you rather have me kneel, to beg his pardon for raising a touchy subject?
pete		 You don't have to remind me. I've never forgotten...
macreedy		Well, that's mighty noble of you. You feel ashamed -- that's noble, too.  And four years from now you'll probably be sitting here telling somebody else you haven't forgotten me. That's progress -- you'll still be ashamed but I'll be dead.
macreedy		Go on, have your drink.  You need it.
doc		 What are you doing?
pete		 Hello, Liz. Now listen... I... 'm getting Macreedy out of town...
pete		 I don't care about Smith! Let him try to kill me -- I might as well be dead as...
pete		 All right. Yeah... I've told him everything.
pete		 She'll be here in five minutes.
macreedy		Thanks, Pete. Thanks very much.
pete		 Hector!
hector		Hmmmm?
hector		What you want?
pete		He's still in his room. Macreedy, I mean.
hector		So...? You want me to tuck him in?
pete		I thought maybe you wanted to tell Smith.
hector		 Smith said he'd be here at midnight. He don't want to be disturbed.
hector		You got a match?
pete		Come on. I got some in the lobby.
hector		I thought you didn't have a match.
macreedy		 ...for depriving me of that pleasure.
liz		Sorry I can't get more out of this heap.
liz		 We could make better time with a dog team.
macreedy		 Aren't you, Liz?
liz		Don't expect too much from me.
macreedy		 Don't worry, I won't.
liz		 I mean, people have always expected things from me. You know why? Because I'm pretty. Well, that's not enough.
liz		 You don't believe that.
macreedy		Yes I do.
liz		Well, I don't, really. I'm a dime a dozen.
macreedy		That I don't believe.
liz		I'm too little and too late.
macreedy		It's never too late.
liz		I lack the muscle.
macreedy		 Why is muscle so important?
liz		 Did it take brains to rough up Coley? Whatever you did to Hector, you didn't do it with brains. How'd you get Pete to change his mind?
macreedy		Not with muscle.
liz		And not with brains, either. He's a pushover for a muscle man.
macreedy		I'm beginning' to think it runs in the family.  You think strength is in the width of a man's shoulders.
liz		I'd sure have liked to see you tangle with Reno Smith.
macreedy		He wasn't around when I left... Maybe I will yet.
macreedy		 What's this?
liz		 ...radiator's overheating.
liz		Leggo! Leggo of me!
macreedy		 You're stupid, Liz. You're a fool. If he finishes me, he's got to finish you.
liz		 Smitty! Smitty!
smith's voice		 I'm here, honey. Just head for the car.
liz		 So long, Macreedy.
smith		 Just a few more steps, honey.
liz		 Get him! Get him now!
smith		 First things first, honey.
liz		 Help me up, Smitty.
smith		You were going to help me, Liz.  I still need your help.
liz		 I did what you said...
smith		You two started out in a car. That's the way you'll end up. Over a cliff, burning.  You can blame that on Macreedy, too. He said I had too many witnesses.
liz		 But why me? Why start with me?
smith		I got to start with somebody.
liz		 Macreedy! Macreedy!
liz		 You shouldn't have done that...
smith		 Go ahead -- kill me. Now.
macreedy		I'd like to kill you now, but you caused too much pain to die quickly.  You'll be tried in a court of law. You'll be convicted by a jury. Then you'll die.
macreedy		 Hands behind your head.
macreedy		 Am I going to have trouble with you?
tim		Nope. But I sure thought the situation was going to be like reversed. I thought I was going to have trouble...  ...with him. I'll take care of him.
macreedy		 Just as you took care of his buddies?
tim		Just as I took care of his buddies. Me, an' Doc, and Pete...
doc		 It's all right, Macreedy...
doc		Old Tim here's got his badge back.
macreedy		 Well. The gang is all here.
tim		I thought I'd take one last whack at my job. Even if Smith killed me for it.
macreedy		 Put him in with Hastings.
macreedy		Your sister's outside, Pete.
macreedy		 She's dead.
macreedy		 Tim knows where to find me if I'm needed.
macreedy		What's on your mind, Doc?
doc		Nothing. Only... about that medal. Can we have it?
macreedy		"We...?" Can who have it?
doc		We.  Us.
macreedy		Why?
doc		Well, we need it, I guess. It's something we can maybe build on. This town is wrecked, just as bad as if it was bombed out. Maybe it can come back...
macreedy		Some towns come back. Some don't. It depends on the people.
doc		 That medal would help.
doc		Thanks, Macreedy. Thanks for everything.
conductor		 What's the excitement? What happened?
macreedy		A shooting.
conductor		I knew it was something. First time a streamliner stopped here in four years.
macreedy		Second time.
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Dreams.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Bad_Lieutenant.txt****

lt		How many times are you gonna miss the bus? Huh? All the other kids can get up in the morning, but you guys wanna be driven around like the fucking President. I'm your goddamn chauffeur!
twins		 Shit, man. It wasn't our fault! -- You think Sis is so perfect, well, if she hadn't hogged the fucking bathroom, maybe we -- I thought Aunt Lu was dead! She was in there so long...
lt		Shut up! Listen!
twin		They're gonna win the Series in four!
lt		All the way with Strawberry!
twins		 Strawberry!
lt		Shit, man -- there's your fucking bus I oughtta make you late! Make the nuns whack the shit outa ya both.
lt		Get going.
bet cop		Two Black kids came up out of nowhere and shot those chicks. Then they laughed as they walked away. The Press is gonna call it the "Giggling Man Murders." I'll tell ya. What a world.
bet cop		But hey -- we make the best of it, man, don't we? Huh? How about them Mets!
lt		No fucking way they're gonna do it in four games straight.
cop one		You serious, man? I wanna go Mets all the way!
lt		Go ahead, man.If you've got shit for brains. But if you wanna win the bucks, go with Oakland.
cop two		I thought Strawberry was gonna --
lt		I know that nigger like he's my brother. He ain't gonna let us off so easy. He'll make us sweat first. This game's going to Oakland. Not a doubt in my mind, man.
bet cop		I'm in. Here.
lt		 I got them all going for Oakland. With bullshit money. We'll cover the
lite		 All right. What are you gonna do?
lt		I want 15 on the Mets.
lite		 How about 7 1/2?
lt		Hey, man. Don't give me that bullshit. Don't pussy-out on me. The Mets are a fucking lock. I wanna make some money.
lite		Are you sure?
lt		Yeah. I'm sure.
businessman		Police! Police! Help me! Police!
lt		Hey, man, gimme something cooked!
lt		It's good shit. From when they busted those Columbians uptown. You can cut it in half.
lt		I got this guy. But there's someone across the street on the roof!
jc		That stuff'll kill you quick, man.
lt		What the fuck are you? A drug counselor or a drug dealer? And you don't even do your own product! What kind of businessman are you?
jc		The rich kind.  Jeez, man. The way you smoke that shit is suicide.
lt		Fuck you.  Just give me back a little something for the road.
jc		See you in a coupla days. Have the cash ready.
ariane		Got something good for us?
ariane		I'm gonna need some bread, man. This ain't fair. I'm always here for you, and you can't even take decent care of me. My landlord is bitching like a motherfucker! You're two months behind on the rent, Lieutenant!
lt		Didya ever think of moving to a cheaper apartment? $3,500 a month is crazy, man!
ariane		It's nothing. This is New York, man...  Oh -- I forgot. Bowtay needs some cash to buy her new acting headshots out of the developers. It's a good investment, man. She could make serious money!
ariane		We've been rehearsing a new monologue. From Shad's Saint Joan, you know? Bowtay does it wonderfully well.
lt		All right, Bowtay. Show us your stuff.
ariane		 There's nothing!
ariane		 Go out and get some Diet Cokes.
lt		 What's going on?
cop		Uh, Lieutenant, Sir -- The owner says they stole cash from the register. He was chasing them down the block when I caught up with them.
lt		Shut the fuck up!
lt		 I'll straighten this out.
lt		How much did they take?
korean owner		Five hundred dollars cash.
lt		 Take this guy down to the Precinct. I need to talk to him.
lt		Gimme the money! Now!
lt		Give me the fucking money, assholes!
lt		What the fuck are ya standing there for? Be gone!
lt		Take over until your boss gets back. Gimme a 6 of Diet Cokes and a 6 of Budweiser.
ariane		I got you a present. Better shit then you got, cop!
lt		Brown Downtown... There hasn't been any smoking brown on the street in --
ariane		Who said anything about the fucking street. I've got more connects than you have, Lieutenant...
lt		Did I win? Shit! The game!
lt		 What's the score? What's the fucking score?
ancient aunt		I dunno...
lt		 Why me, man?
lt		 Shut the fuck up! Did you see that?
twins		 That nigger could have let it drop and gone home.
lt		Hey, Veronica baby, looking good! What's going down?
veronica		 But there's a ki under the back seat.
lt		I'll put it in my trunk.
lt		 What d'ya know... A kilo of 'caine...
sergeant		Where the fuck did that come from?
lt		 I can't fucking believe it...
lt		 What's this shit about a nun getting raped?
lt		What's going on?
first cop		They raped a nun and tore up the church -- they even took a crap on the altar. Up in Spanish Harlem.
second cop		She was only seventeen...
first cop		Who the fuck could do this?!
second cop		Jesus... What's she gonna tell her mother?
third cop		The Church already put up a $50,000 reward!
first cop		Well, one of us is gonna get it. I mean -- get them.
first cop		Here's to payback for the nuns!
second cop		Anyone got any leads, at all?
first cop		We got shit to go on. Only that list of inventory -- what they stole from the church.
third cop		Y'know they actually stole those wacky purple robes? And they took the chalice -- with the Host still inside!
second cop		What did they want with the Host?
third cop		They were hungry. I dunno. They didn't want to hock the Host, they wanted to hock that golden chalice.
lt		Leave it to the Catholic Church, man. Girls get raped everyday, and now they're gonna pay 50 G just because these chicks wore penguin suits!
lt		The Church is a racket.
lt		Sure!
bet cop		 I bet you won a shitload on Oakland. How much, huh?
lt		More than you did.
lt		If you know what's good for you, you'll keep staying on Oakland!
bet cop		Oakland? Is that how you're going?
lt		Yeah. Sure. Don't you get it? The series has gotta last seven games. The last two did, didn't they? It's a racket. Do you have any idea how much money they make selling television-time for commercials during the series? Especially if it's a New York team? They won't close the gold mine after only four games. It'll last a full seven. Too many people wanna milk it for what it's worth. You'll see!
bet cop		All right... I'm in. After all, you're the expert. Ain't that right, LT?
lt		You'll be sorry, man. But if you wanna be a sissy, here's your bread.
cop one		Strawberry? I thought we were going with Oakland.
lt		We are, man! That's the point! If the Mets win, it's thanks to Strawberry. If Oakland wins, it's thanks to Strawberry. Nothing can happen out there on the field that don't gotta do with Strawberry. So here's to Strawberry!
nurse		Can I help you?
lt		I'm in charge of the investigation. Just checking security.
nurse		 Security?
lt		Do you want those guys coming back? For the nun? Or for you?
doctor		 They inserted a crucifix eleven centimeters into her vaginal aperture, breaking the hymen membrane. Then they pursued the same course with their natural organs of sexual penetration. They used a sharp object, probably a hunting knife with a curved blade, to carve a cross between her shoulder blades, entering the flesh an average of nearly one centimeter throughout the area of the wound. They --
lt		Have you ever seen a naked nun? I tell you, man, I went to school with the nuns, I've seen hundreds since then and I've never even seen a nun's belly button, you understand? But this nun, let me tell you. What a beautiful lady...  And where'd the Church get the 50 G in the first place? The fucking Church is the biggest scam going. You know what's the real killer? It costs $8,000 per kid for them to go to parochial school. I've got three kids in there already, with two on the way! Christ. That fucking reward is my money, man! But that's Church policy. The Pope is the world's biggest bookie. Makes people bet on their own salvation! Double or nothing on Heaven. You go to Hell -- then go to Hell. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was bullshit.
ariane		I can't get over what those guys did to her. I just can't.
lt		They're alive, aren't they? Come on, man! Everyone's making such a fucking fuss, just because she's a nun. Just because she wears a penguin suit, the church puts up 50 G for the guys who dared to rape her. Do you think they'd put up a dime if you got raped? Of course not. Or even for your little sister? The virgin? Like shit they would.
ariane		Susie's not a virgin anymore.
lt		She's fucking nine years old! Jesus Christ.
ariane		And the nun's not a virgin anymore, either. Will they make her leave the convent?
lt		Who knows? Who knows what their policy is.  But I'll tell you, man, that nun... She was beautiful. Just beautiful... Tall... Real tall... I've never seen anything like it...
lt		 Lite, man... Where the fuck are you?
ariane		It's horrible. They burned her breasts with cigarettes. Christ.
lt		Yeah? At least she's alive! I see people get killed every day! Worse yet, tortured first and then killed! The nuns got off easy. Jeez. Cigarette burns. Everyone's all upset about fucking cigarette burns. I'll show you cigarette burns!
ariane		Do you believe in God? Do you believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God?.
lt		 Yeah, I know, I know all about it. Enough already about the fucking nuns. Yeah. Yeah. So just take the bet. Don't give me any hassles, man. Just put in my bet. 30 G's. Yeah. And I got $900 from the cops on Oakland. Yeah. Right. Strawberry's gonna knock em dead. Of course he is! You know that! Yeah. Yeah. Have faith, man! OK. Right.
ariane		Do you believe in God?
lt		The Church is a fucking racket. I know how they operate. I've been part of the racket since the first time some faggot priest spilt water on my head. My Aunt Lu says I was crying all the way through. Yeah, I know their game inside out. Now I'm free of it and I'm gonna stay that way.
ariane		I'm not talking about the fucking Church. Fuck the Church. But tell me. Do you believe in God?
lt		What's to believe?
ariane		That Jesus Christ was the Son of God and he came to die for your sins.
ariane		Your sins, Lieutenant!  And look around you! Where do you think all this shit came from?
lt		People.
ariane		You believe that man is the be-all and end-all?
lt		Yeah.
ariane		OK. OK. Fine. But -- do you believe in God?
lt		I believe in God the Father Almighty, Creator of Heaven and Earth...
lt		You wouldn't put some religious trip on me, would you?
jersey girl		Uh-uh... What?
lt		Good. Show me your papers.
lt		Who's this person? It ain't you, and it ain't you, so who is it?
girl		My Aunt.
lt		So you took the car from you Aunt. Stole it. Am I right?
girl		We were gonna give it back! We're on our way home, now!
lt		Yeah, yeah.
lt		Now why don't I just call up your Aunt right now and tell her what's gone down. How about that?
lt		Well, I'm sure we could arrange something... Unless you fancy a few days in jail...
cop 1		Can't you tell us anything? Sisters? Anything at all?
elderly nun		They broke my glasses. I didn't see anything, but I did hear them. They were young. And there were two of them. They spoke Spanish. One of them was named Julio.
lt		 Julio. Great. There are 20,000 spics named "Julio".
elderly nun		I would tell you more if I could. I am so sorry, Officers.
cop 2		What about you, Sister? Won't you tell us anything?
monsignor		Listen. One nun is nearly 80 years old. I'm not from this Church, of course, but I assume they'll be getting her a new pair of glasses. Apparently she's legally blind without them. The Sister who suffered a rape is just 17. She arrived from Ireland only a couple of months ago. This -- event -- is just too much for them to take!
monsignor		Listen. The Church would like to know who did it just as much as the NYPD. These arrant criminals broke the laws of man, and the laws of God. The Church wants nothing more than to see them behind bars. That's why we're offering the $50,000 reward to whomever brings them in. I'm sure our hero will be one of New York's Finest.
lite		OK asshole. You owe thirty grand. Now what are you gonna do?
lt		I wanna go double or nothing on the next game.
lite		Double or nothing? Are you fucking out of your mind?
lt		I'm not gonna let that bastard take my money
lite		Take your money? This guy will blow up your house and everyone in it!
lt		 There's just no way the Mets will lose this game. Gooden is pitching and Strawberry is ready to break out.
lite		Fuck Strawberry. You're gonna end up owing 60 G to a homicidal maniac!
lt		That's my problem. Just put in my bet.
nun		Forgive me Father, for I have sinned. It has been two days since my last confession. Father, my sin is a terrible sin. A sin of omission. There was another sin that happened at the same time, and in the same place, but my sin I think was graver stil.
priest		Sister, we all know what happened to you yesterday morning. I expected that you would want to speak to me about it. But you could have come to my office. Your being here, in the confessional, implies that you, Sister, have done something wrong. You haven't. I assure you. I feared you might have misplaced feelings of guilt. If you condemn yourself because you experienced feelings of... curiosity or even... pleasure, you mustn't --
nun		Father, if it was so trivial, so natural, so -- No. I have sinned. And you must listen if you are to prescribe an appropriate act of contrition, and to absolve me. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your arms to serve God?
priest		It's funny, you knew. But the first thing I think of is kneading the bread that I help bake for the soup kitchen. Maybe that's because my the muscles in my arms still hurt.
nun		I also thought of that bread, Father. And of that night six days ago when the Mother Superior died, and I kept the cool, damp cloth on her forehead freshly moist. Father, what would you do if you had but one day in which to use your legs to serve God?
priest		I think of running for help, and falling to my knees in prayer.
nun		As I have prayed day and night since the desecration of this church yesterday morning -- and my sin. You see, Father --
priest		Yes, Sister?
nun		Yesterday morning, God gave me but one chance to use something else to serve Him. Not my arms or my legs, but something I used for the first time, for the last time, and will never use again. My vagina.
nun		Those boys, those sad, raging boys... They came to me as the needy do. And like many of the needy, they were rude. Like all the needy, they took. And like all the needy, they needed.  Father. I knew them; They learn in our school. And play in our schoolyard. And they are good boys.
priest		You knew them?  Who were they, Sister? Who are these boys? What are the names of these -- good boys you knew?
nun		I could tell you their names now, and I know you'd be bound by a sacred vow to keep my secret. But I cannot tell you their names. For I, too, am bound. As I am bound now to confess my sins. So listen, Father Listen.  My vagina spread, but spread no word. It opened, on nothingness. It gave nothing at all and left nothing behind. No trace of my act, yes my act. For I was there, too, remains in the landscape of God.
nun		Jesus turned water to wine. I ought to have turned bitter semen to fertile sperm -- hatred to love. And maybe to have saved their souls. They did not love me. I ought to have loved them. As Jesus loved those who reviled him. I ought to have surprised those boys. Instead, they surprised me, and got no surprise at all. No, they did not rape a nun. But a nun has been raped. And the nun must now atone for her sin. For a God-given part of her was wasted. A part which other women use for procreation, for conjugal fulfillment, for expressions of love. I had but one chance. And I did nothing but react in pain.  My vagina. I shall never have again. And never again shall I encounter two boys whose prayer was more legible, more poignant, more anguished. Two young men who threw themselves upon the altar and took me with them. And I did nothing for them. I can only hope that someone will.
lite		Do you have the money?
lt		 What money?
lite		Don't bullshit me.
lt		I don't got it. Not tonight. You can't get blood from a stone.
lite		This psycho can.
lt		Oooo... Big fucking scary guy. Just put $120,000 on tomorrow's game.
lite		 He's been waiting for the money since the fucking game ended. And I've been waiting here since -- forget it. Listen up. You're gonna get us both fucking killed. You know that!
lt		Uh-uh. I'm gonna win. Just make sure the bet gets in.
lite		You do know that he's gonna blow up your house, kill your wife and kids --
lt		Good. I'll give him an extra 10 grand for his trouble. I hate that motherfucking house and --
lite		He's gonna kill you, man. Do you hear me, motherfucker? You. Dead. Get it?
lt		I've been dodging bullets since I was fourteen. No one can kill me. I'm fucking blessed. I'm fucking Catholic.
lite		How's the case going?
lt		What case?
lite		The fucking rapists, man. The punks who raped that nun. The $50,000 reward from the Church! Remember?
lt		Yeah. Sure. Yeah. We're on it bigtime. Lots of leads. You bet.
lite		That 50 G could help you --
lt		The Mets are gonna win the Series. They're a lock.
lt		Get this, man. I was at the game today. Face to fucking face with Strawberry! Jesus! I saw him strikeout. And you know what? He looked at me, and I looked at him, and he laughed and I laughed and it was like we were all alone in that whole stadium and only we understood that it was all a racket, that he struck out on purpose, and that he's saving it up for the Big One. Tomorrow. Today I understood for the very first time that --
lite		You've really got a problem.
lt		-- that there was never any other way it could have gone.  Never any other way. So you had better just put in my fucking bet. $120,000 on the last game. The Big One. Come on! Are you a bookmaker, or fucking what?
lite		Here. Look I'll give you the psyho's number You call him yourself and tell him wnat you want.
lite		You couldn't pay 60. You lose, you'll be in for 180. To a guy who kills people for nothing.
lite		I was supposed to meet him at midnight with the 60. It's already 1:00 AM. Be careful. I mean it.
jc		How are you doing, man?
lt		Very good. Very good. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow.
jc		I know. Here. Just a moment.
jc		This should be it. Oh, wait.  Mamacita?
jc		There. Now you've got your profit and more. You'll have more product day after tomorrow, right?
lt		 Uh - right. Sure. The Mets are gonna win tomorrow.
jc		I know.  Take care of yourself, man, OK? Be cool.
lt		Someone just took a shot at me...
ariane		Sure, baby Sure And you don't do cocaine, either.
lt		It's not the drugs, Ariane, it's -- it's someone who wants to kill me.  You gotta believe me!
ariane		 Why?
lt		Just kick back, baby. Make yourself at home.  But of course it won't be nobody's home, if you don't come through with the fucking rent!
lt		Hello? Is LARGE there?
mob voice		 No.
lt		Look, man. Lite gave ne this number. OK? Just take a message. Tell Large to fucking call me right away at 123-
lt		I'm a good friend of Lite's, man. It's urgent that --
lt		Christ! Shit! I could kill them all with my bare hands.
ariane		Who?
lt		Those fucking Mob assholes.
ariane		C'mere. You got some good blow, right?
lt		Yeah.
ariane		Then c'mere. I got something for you.
ariane		First I'll put your Uptown in the spoon, then, to make it more exciting, I'm gonna add some Downtown. They call this thing a speedball, honey, but then you must know that...  First time shooting up?
lt		Nah...
ariane		Sure it is. You're a virgin. Just like that nun. And I'm gonna rape you.
lt		 Large?
large		 All right, cop. I want my money.
lt		It's still my money. If you want to have a chance at any part of it, shithead, you will take my $120,000 and bet on tomorrow's game.
large		 What about the money you owe me on yesterday's game?
lt		Fuck yesterday's game. The World Series is seven games not six. Put in my bet.
large		 Let me think about it.
lt		There's nothing to think about. Either you put in my bet or you ain't getting nothing.
large		 Oh, really?
lt		Yeah, really. I'm no fucking asshole, man. I'm a fucking cop!
large		 OK, cop. I want you to give yourself and your friends on the force a message. Tell them I've got my own reasons to be very interested in whomever did the job on the nuns. I'll double the Church reward if you bring those punks direct to me. 100 G cash. Get it?
lt		Fuck the nuns, man! I'm talking about Strawberry! Is the bet down?
large		 Here's the deal: You meet me tonight across from the Garden. 33rd & 8th. At the beginning of the Ninth Inning. We'll listen to the end of the game together. You bring your cash, I'll bring mine.
lt		Yeah, sucker. You better be there!
lt		Can you believe the nerve of this fucking guy? He kills people for fun, and then, he puts up 100 G to bring in some guys who raped a nun. What a sick fuck. Man...
ariane		Who?
lt		A wiseguy. Paying 100 Grand for the rapists if I turn then over direct to him.
ariane		But you could do it, baby. We could use the bread...
lt		You mean you could use it.
lt		I got it, man! I will find those kids. And I'll get the 50 G from the Church! Then the kids'll go to jail. I'll be in charge, of course. After a little while, I'll break the fuckers out -- and I'll turn them in to shithead I was just talking to. And pick up his 100 G. No. I'll hit him up for 200 G. Or 250 G. l can do it -- 'cause I've got the kids. Then, of course, there's the 180 G I'm gonna pick up on the Game tonight -- when the Strawberries win!
ariane		"The Strawberries"?
lt		The Mets. So anyway, chalk up another 180 G for the Game. Jesus Christ! That's almost half a million dollars. Ariane! Wait. That's not good enough, I'll ask the shithead for 280 G for the kids. Then it'll be a perfect 500 thousand. Yeah. Perfect. 280 G for the kids. Yeah, it's good I prepared, or I wouldn't have thought to --
ariane		 How come all those guys who're looking to get 50 from the Church haven't come up with shit? You got some kinda inside track?
lt		 I'm a Catholic.
lt		Listen to me, Sister, listen to me good. The other cops'll just put the guys through the system. They're juveniles. They'll walk! Get it? But I'll beat the system and do justice. Real justice. For you.
nun		I have already forgiven them.
lt		Come on lady! They put out cigarettes on your tits, man! Get with the program! Don't you want them behind bars? Or away from the world for good? How could you forgive these motherfu -- excuse me. These guys. How could you? Deep down, don't you want them to pay for what they did to you? Don't you want the crime avenged?
nun		I have forgiven them.
lt		Nun! These boys still have their weapons, Sister. Your forgiveness will leave blood in its wake. What if they do it to other nuns? Other virgins? Old women who die from the shock? Do you have the rights let these boys go free? Can you bear the burden. Sister?
nun		I have prayed for days, Lieutenant. I have prayed for the souls of the boys who raped me. And I have prayed for my own soul, too. I know what I must do. And I know what I must not do.  But you -- you -- it is you who needs to pray. Now, why do you want to kill these boys? Why -- really?
lt		 Look. Sister. No one has to get killed. We can solve this together. You and me -- as one. These boys are lost sheep. Both Catholic -- did you know that? And they're sick, Sister. With a stress of the mind and of the soul. They need help. Not just jail. Not just psychiatry. They need the help that only the Church can give. Please help me to help them. Help me find them before the others do. The night is full of evil men, chasing these boys with guns and clubs. We have charity and love on our side. I know that together, we could find them first, even in the dark...
nun		The good reasons are not always the real reasons. Talk to Jesus, Lieutenant. Pray.  You do you believe in God -- don't you? That Jesus Christ died for your sins?
jesus		 I forgive you.
lt		Me?
jesus		 I forgive you.
lt		You can't forgive me. After what I've done.  I've fucked up bigtime. I've been bad. Real bad.
jesus		I forgive you.
lt		Please. Please don't forgive me. I've always hated you for that.
jesus		I forgive you.
lt		Why? Why can't you hate me? Hate me! Please! Help me!  Hate me! Help me! Hate me!
jesus		I forgive you.
lt		Why? Jesus! Why me? Why can't I wash the ashes from my forehead, year after year after year? And why am I still drunk on your blood, the taste of your flesh on my tongue? Worst of all, why can't I feel the nails in my palms, the spear in my side, the crown of thorns round my head? Why do I have to know, over and over, that it was you. You who died; died for my sins! And that I will die for nothing. Why?
jesus		I forgive you.
lt		Why do I dream every night of the whore who brought you water on your road to death? And why have I never forgotten that if she, then I --
lt		Oh God, my God. it's goddamn good to be good. Forgive me. Father, for I have sinned. It's still goddamn good to be good.
jesus		I forgive you.
lt		The chalice. Tell me! Who gave it to you! Tell me where the fuck you got it! Take me there! Now!
lt		In the name of God, you must.
lt		We've already got Hell, Sister.
lt		No. Not a cop.
lt		A holy thing.  Let's go.
fence		You took the chalice.
fence		You brought it back to the Church. And then it made it's way back to me, again.
fence		I was gonna bring it back myself.
fence		Jesus, woman! What did you think? You thought I'd get mad like I did that time you took that set of pots and pans? That was twenty years ago. And how do you compare pots and pans and a chalice?
lt		They both hold stuff you eat.
fence		 So what are you doing here?
fence		That's no mystery. Julio and Paolo brought it in,  No. How could you understand.
fence		Well -- maybe you do. But I don't know where those boys are at right now. You'll have to ask around. Those boys on the corner'll know. You'll have to get it out of them. But they know.
lt		 Thank you. And I'll make sure the chalice gets back where it belongs.
lt		Hey -- Have you seen Paolo or Julio around?
street dealer		What the fuck you want.
lt		You know, my Uncle used to wear a walkman all the time. The walkman looked just like yours. And you look something like my Uncle. But one day he was standing in a puddle -- the puddle locked just like that one --
street dealer		And what?
lt		And he got electrocuted.
lt		Look -- I don't know you, and you don't know me, but I'm really in the mood to kill someone today and you are at the end of my gun.  Tell me! Where is Julio and Paolo ?
street dealer		They were at that abandoned building last night. Second floor. They're probably still there now. It's next to the old Convent. Downtown a ways. You know the place...
julio		Who the fu--
lt		Shut up. Let's watch the game.
lt		Strawberry...
paolo		Yeah...
lt		Give me the robes.
julio		You're not a cop are you?
lt		No.
lt		Jesus died for your sins, you motherfuckers! Not me. No. I didn't die for your sins. No, not me. Jesus went and did it.  So why did you do what you did? If you want to live, tell me now, motherfuckers! Tell me now!
lt		I forgive you.
lt		Get out.
lt		If you think you're not getting on this bus, you're dead wrong. No fucking way are you gonna miss this bus, man! You were probably the kind of kids who had your father drive you to school cause you couldn't catch the fucking bus. But no more, man. You're getting on this bus and you're taking it to the last fucking stop. So get on the fucking bus, man, 'cause you're life ain't worth shit in this town.
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Santa.txt****

trainer		 Remember, parents don't want photos where their child isn't smiling. Some children may not want to smile. It is your job to coax a smile out of them. A good line to remember is: "Santa thinks everybody should be happy. Can you smile for Santa?" A camera can only copy a child's smile -- it will take you to put it there.
trainer		If the child will not smile, the Photo Elf will go ahead and take the picture anyway. Now, it is a good Santa's job to smile as well -- I know with the big white beard your smile will be partially hidden, so you must learn to smile with your eyes. They show warmth and can be very expressive.
trainer		Remember you have been chosen for the starring role of Santa Claus. Your portrayal of this beloved character will have a major impact on every child you meet. Keep in mind at all times that to them, you aren't a man dressed up like Santa, you are Santa.
mother		Hurry boys, we're gonna miss Santa! She drags them across the street toward the looming art-deco monolith that is the big-city department store.
older child		There!
photo elf		 My, what a darling picture! Are you certain you only want the single? Additional photos come in handy as gifts for grandma and grandpa or a wonderful remembrance for friends.
mom		That's all right, I'll just take the single.
santa		 Uh-huh... yeah... done.
bratty kid		I saw you in another mall.
santa		 Right... Good for you.
bratty kid		You're not really Santa. If you were Santa you could do magic.
santa		 You want magic?
santa		There, I just made you disappear.
santa		...That it?
santa		...Thank fuckin' Christ.
security guard		Merry Christmas, Willie.
santa		Up your ass.
security guard		Have it your way, Willie.
santa		Don't tell me which way to have it.
willie		Ready.
marcus		Jesus.
marcus		How's it goin'?
willie		I'm finished when I'm finished.
marcus		I'm goin' downstairs...  I need a melon-bailer and a loofah.
willie		Got it.
marcus		Fuck the loofah, let's go.
lois		Marcus, did you get the loofah?
marcus		Drive.
willie		FUCK YOU, YOU FUCKING PIECE OF SHIT!
willie		Fuck you! Fuck you! Fuck you!
willie		Goddamn it!
willie		Yeah baby!
willie		I got messages. Go wash yourself.
stripper		I'm a dancer, I sweat.
willie		Well you smell like a bum's nutsack.
stripper		Fuck you.
willie		Yeah, yeah.
marcus		Jesus Christ! Can you maybe keep it together for just ten minutes?!
marcus		For crying out loud, chew a few of these... you drunken, fuckin' imbecile!
chipeska		Harrison, please I Just let me explain. Financially, the --
harrison		You get what you pay for, Chipeska! Five Christmases I've given my heart -- my soul -- my love to these kids, and now what? Now you flip me for some stranger who'll do it for peanuts and happens to work with a real midget! Lemme tell you something: nobody cares! Nobody comes here for the elf, Santa's the attraction! I do Burl Ives songs; does this schmoe even play guitar?
chipeska		Harrison, it's not the money or the midget. Believe me, if it was, I -- I don't think they like "midget". I think you're supposed to call them --
harrison		Aw, forget it!
harrison		...Hacks!
chipeska		Hi. Bob Chipeska. I, please, I, uh -- please don't listen to him. Great resume and photo by the way.
marcus		Thanks... you know, we been at this a long time an' all, so we like to think we do a good job...
chipeska		You two are the best men for the job. Truly. So do not let his... unpleasantness affect your performance in any way.
marcus		Oh no, we're fine, w --
willie		 Performance?
chipeska		Yea. Your performance... you know, the...
willie		Performance. Like sexual?
chipeska		Excuse me?
marcus		Willie no, he --
willie		You saying there's something wrong with my gear?
marcus		Willie...
chipeska		I'm sorry. Your gear?
willie		You know... fuck stick.
marcus		OKAY! We're gonna head upstairs now.
marcus		Such a card.
chipeska		He's not gonna say "fuck stick" in front of the children, is he?
marcus		No, no, no. Joke. Adult joke. For us. Adults.
marcus		...Joke.
marcus		Merry Christmas! Santa's coming!
marcus		What the fuck you doing, "fuck stick" in front of the boss?
willie		I don't like that guy.
marcus		You don't like any guy. You think I can't find another portly motherfuck can run a water drill?
marcus		Don't tempt my hand. You blow this and we're broke for the year. So stop acting like you know something because, pal of mine, you don't know squat. You're gum on my shoe.
willie		Yeah, yeah.
marcus		Now put on your fuckin' hat and get out there.
kid		Loser!
willie		All right, wuddya want?
willie		Fine. Next.
willie		YOWWWCH! Watch the toenails willya?
willie		...Wuddya want?
little girl		...Santa?
willie		Yeah, c'mon, c'mon, wuddya want?
little girl		Um... Barbie?
willie		Fine. Next.
willie		...What do you want?
boy		Fraggle-stick car.
willie		 Fine, whatever, next.
willie		...Next. Next!
willie		...Next, goddamnit! Let's move it along -- this is not the DMV!
marcus		It's okay. C'mon.
marcus		What's your name?
marcus		...You can tell me...
marcus		...How about Santa? If you don't tell him, you won't get a present.
marcus		...That's right. Let's tell Santa.
willie		What do you want? C'mon, wuddya want? A snot rag?
willie		 Marcus I get him outta here before he pisses on me.
willie		 ...Let it go, you little bastard.
kid		It's not real.
willie		It was real. The hair fell out when I got sick.
kid		How'd you get sick?
willie		I loved a woman who wasn't clean.
kid		Mrs. Santa?
willie		No, her sister.  Let the fucking thing go.
kid		What's it like at the North Pole?
willie		Like the suburbs.
kid		Which one?
willie		Apache Junction. What the fuck do you care?
willie		Get the hell off my lap.
kid		You are really Santa, right?
willie		No. No, I'm an accountant. I wear this as a fucking fashion thing.
kid		Okay.
willie		Get that kid out of here, he's freaking me out.
willie		I gotta get a drink on. See ya tomorrow.
marcus		Just don't come in to work stinkin' of booze again.
willie		Don't worry about me. Get going, you'll be late for your Wizard of Oz Candy Bar Guild thing.
marcus		Lollipop Guild, asshole. Jesus, two year olds flip me shit better'n you.
willie		You tryin' to say something to me?
marcus		 Yeah. I'm gonna stick my whole fist up your ass.
troublemaker		 Listen here buddy, let me make yourself perfectly clear. We don't like your kind coming around here in your red silk and satin clothes with your hunger for same-sex relationships. Consider yourself warned.
willie		Well fu-uck you!
troublemaker		I know that's what you'd like to do!
willie		Up yours, yufff --
troublemaker		Oh saved by a woman, mister No-Pussy- Please man!
sue		He ain't worth it, sugar. He got hit on last week. Didn't sit too well.
troublemaker		WHAT ARE YOU STARING AT!?
troublemaker		...This is not Flagstaff!
sue		Another Grandad, Santa?
willie		Yep.
sue		Got a name?
willie		Oh yeah.
sue		What do you do? I mean, after the holidays?
willie		Nothing 'til March. Then I'm the Easter Bunny.
sue		...Another?
willie		Why not. Buy you one?
sue		Why not.
sue		...Not a big talker.
willie		Nah.
sue		Buy you one?
willie		Why not.
sue		You're pretty regular, for a Santa.
willie		It's my job, no big deal. I'm an eating, drinking, shitting, fucking Santa Claus.
sue		Prove it.
willie		Which?
willie		Yes! Yes! Yes!
sue		Fuck me, Santa! Fuck me, Santa!
willie		At least lemme take off the hat!
sue		NO!
sue		I got a thing for Santa Claus, I don't know, I guess it's from early childhood.
willie		 Yeah, so's my thing for tits.
sue		Maybe because my parents were Jewish and never celebrated Christmas. Santa was sort of forbidden, you know?
sue		I like you. Most of the people around here are pretty uptight. My name is Sue. Here's my number.
sue		...Don't mothball that suit!
troublemaker		I AM NOT GAY!!
willie		Whoa-Jesus! All right buddy, that's it...
troublemaker		Buddy? I said, I am not gay!
willie		Look, what's the problem pal, you go off your meds?
troublemaker		...Yes, but this isn't about that! You are queer as a ten dollar bill.
willie		Now you listen. My brother lost an arm fighting you people in Vietnam, so I want you to take a good hard look at this face...
willie		...'cause it's the last fuckin' thing you're gonna see before I knock your head off and sh --
troublemaker		Who is the bitch now, fat man?!
troublemaker		Please little boy, I am doing this for all of us!
troublemaker		I think he has finished his cruising for tonight, hm?
willie		You.
willie		This one time I take you home.
kid		Uh-huh.
willie		I'm not your fuckin' dada.
kid		Uh-huh.
willie		It's not as if you helped out with that nut-job.
kid		Uh-huh.
willie		And you're right there to grab his fuckin' balls.
kid		Uh-huh.
willie		Right height.
kid		Yeah.
willie		Twist 'em.
kid		Why do you need a car?
willie		...Fuck you talkin' about?
kid		This car.
willie		Whuh. Which turn is it?
kid		Sage Terrace. Where's your sleigh?
willie		Repairs. In the shop.
kid		Where're the reindeer?
willie		I stable 'em. Is it gonna be left or right?
kid		 That way. Where's the stable?
willie		Next to the shop.
kid		How do they sleep?
willie		Who -- the reindeer? Standing up.
kid		But the noise, how do they sleep?
willie		What noise?
kid		From the shop.
willie		They, uh, they only work during the day.
kid		I thought it was always night at the North Pole.
willie		Not now. Now it's always day.
kid		Then how do they sleep?
willie		Well, they -- WILL YOU PUH-LEEEZ SHUT THE FUCK UP! HOW THE FUCK DO KNOW?! I'M GONNA -- Whoa! Sage Terrace!
willie		...What is it with you? Somebody drop you on your fucking head?
kid		On my head?
willie		What, are they gonna drop you on somebody else's head?
kid		How can they drop me onto my own head?
willie		Not onto your own h -- ARE YOU FUCKING WITH ME?
willie		Nice digs. Daddy home?
kid		He's on a adventure 'sploring mountains. He been gone a long time.
willie		Exploring mountains? When's he coming back?
kid		Next year.
willie		What about Mommy?
kid		She lives in God's house with Jesus and Mary and the Ghost and the long- eared donkey and Joseph and the talking walnut.
willie		Who the fuck takes care of you then?
kid		Granma.
willie		 Really... What's her name?
kid		Granma.
willie		Uh-huh. Is Granny spry?
kid		Granma, Santa's here. Are you spry?
grandma		Roger! You're home. Let me fix you some sandwiches.
willie		So you're tellin' me no one else is here?
willie		...No aunts, no uncles, no cousins?
willie		...Butler, security guard? Nothin'?
kid		Nuh-uh.
willie		Daddy got a safe?
kid		You need money to fix your sleigh?
willie		Huh? Yeah, whateverthefuck...
kid		You want milk and cookies?
willie		Daddy got a car?
kid		Bye Santa!
gin		"Fuck stick"?
chipeska		Yes, I thought it was strange too, but you know, I, I, I, I, uh, I, his little friend promised he wouldn't say it in front of the children. Which is fine because, you know, urn, there's an adult world and a child's world and that's okay. I'm not a censor.
gin		Little friend?
chipeska		Yes, a, a, a dwarf. Or midget... a, a, I don't know what he's called exactly but... a little guy. Little. Billy Barty. God rest. But thin fingers. Not the fat sausage fingers.
gin		"Little people," that's what they like.
chipeska		Ah, yes, right.
gin		So "fuck stick," that's all?
chipeska		Well, no, there was something else...
chipeska		Now don't get me wrong. I was against the Clinton impeachment. What a man does with his penis -- Oval Office, Women's Big & Tall -- it's not for the American people to say.
gin		Right.
chipeska		But when you're dealing with children, a tender sensibility, a position of trust -- then perhaps, someone who has screaming orgasms with large women --
gin		Mm.
chipeska		Though I can't fire him for that.
gin		No.
chipeska		Sizisra. They'd say.
gin		Sure.
chipeska		Not true. I am no siziat. But I can see the picket line now.
gin		Yeah, a big fuckin' fat one.
chipeska		They'd all say, If it had been a supermodel or, uh...
gin		Heeyeah. Unfair practices. A lot of special pleading. Bitch, bitch, bitch. Fuckin' broads.
chipeska		But -- I can't help it -- the guy makes me uneasy.
gin		Well sure. Santa fuckin' someone in the ass.
chipeska		So maybe there's something I could fire him for.
gin		Yeah. Yeah. I getcha.
chipeska		Do you? Do you think you could find something?
gin		Oh shit yeah. There's always something.
marcus		...Motherfucker... Oh, you lousy fucking motherfuck...
marcus		That's just the kinda shit that's gonna get us pinched!
willie		 She said she was eighteen.
marcus		You promised no arcades! You said you'd only hustle Big & Tall!
willie		Ah, it's like shooting fish in a barrel -- there's no sport,
marcus		How many times, you fuck? "The bigger the store, the bigger the take." Well, we can't work the big stores with your big fucking train wrecks!
willie		 You got some nerve you little shit ya! You my mom now?! You shat me out your womb, is that it? You gotta take care of me!? Well I can take care of myself and I don't need no lectures! I know how to keep a low profile!
marcus		What the fuck is this?!
willie		Mind your own fucking business.
marcus		You cocksucker!
marcus		...EVER HEAR OF THE OPEN-BOTTLE LAW?!  -- You dumb Dipshit Motherfucker!
willie		Opal, come here.
opal		Screw you, Willie -- last time I didn't shit right for a week.
willie		No, not that -- come here!
willie		Who the fuck's in my room, did you see someone go into my fuckin' room?
opal		Yeah some guy askin' 'boutcha -- looked like a cop.
willie		Ah fuck.
marcus		What guy?! You get a look at him?
willie		No, I think it's a cop though. You think someone's onto us?
marcus		Is there anything in the room? Anything professional?
willie		No. Clothes.
marcus		Just ditch. You got anywhere to sack out for a while?
kid		Santa!
willie		Yeah.
kid		You're bringing my present early?
willie		NO.
kid		But I never told you what I wanted.
willie		I said I didn't bring it, dipshit.
kid		Okay. Good. I want a stuffed elephant. A pink one.
willie		Yeah, well...
willie		...wish in one hand and shit in the other, see which fills up faster.
kid		Okay.
willie		I'm gonna be staying here a while. Things are all fucked up at the North Pole. Mrs. Santa, she... she walked in on me fuckin' her sister. So I'm out on my fuckin' ass. She's taking half of everything... This'll do.
willie		...I'm gonna crash here. You and me, like, you know, bachelors.
kid		Do you and Mrs. Santa have kids?
willie		No. Thank the fuck Christ.
kid		What about the elves?
willie		Yeah, well, them. They stay with Mrs. Santa. I get 'em on weekends. Run me a bath, will ya?
kid		What about the reindeer?
willie		 Don't start with the fucking reindeer.
kid		...What're their names?
willie		...Who?
kid		The elves.
willie		 I -- I can't remember... Sneezy, and Dopey --
kid		That's the Seven Dwarves.
willie		Shit, is that not...? I just -- fuck, I don't know, I'll just say, Hey, Bub -- Look, I...
willie		...FUCK ME! I DON'T KNOW THIS FUCKING SHIT! WHY IS EVERYTHING A FUCKING TEST WITH YOU?!
kid		-- How old are they?
kid		You want cookies?
willie		No.
kid		Warm milk?
willie		No.
kid		Should I fix you some sandwiches?
willie		What is with the fixing sandwiches? No.
kid		Okay. You want anything else?
willie		No. As soon as the bed stops moving I'm going to sleep...
kid		Okay.
willie		...Wake me up... when the little hand is on the...
kid		Okay.
saleswoman		Can I help you, ma'am?
lois		Just looking.
salesman		Help you with anything, ma'am?
lois		Just looking.
willie		Fuck me? Fuck you!
marcus		You can't just take up with some kid! You don't know who's around, what they do!
willie		You got some nerve you little shit ya. You my mom now?! You shat me out your --
marcus		You said that last night you stupid fuck!
willie		Ah, shit! Fuck you!
marcus		You are by far the dumbest most pathetic piece of maggot-eaten shit that has ever slid from God's gilded ass! What if the kid has one of those fucking play-dates they have now?
willie		You shittin' me?! He doesn't have fucking friends! Not even an imaginary one! Unless he got ditched by him! He's just a fuckin' misfit! Lives with his grandma who sits drooling in front of the TV! Every once in a while she gets up to play soccer with her tits! What, she's gon' rat me out? She don't know her ass from last Tuesday!
marcus		You fuck her?
willie		Jesus! Why is everything sex with you?
marcus		With me? I fuck one person, I ain't out there serial fornicating, trying to float my liver! Drinkin' myself silly 'cause I can't stand what a piece of shit I am!
willie		What're you, fuckin' Sigmund Sawed- Off Freud? The shrunken fuckin' shrink?
marcus		Yeah, that's right, shit-for-brains, talk about my height. Make it about something safe. 'Cause you're an emotional fucking cripple. Your soul is dog shit. Every single fuckin' thing about you is ugly.
willie		Yeah? Well... fuck you.
marcus		I've seen anal warts more attractive than you.
woman		Oh, look who's here Jimmy! It's Santa! Let's tell him what you want for Christmas.
willie		 I'M ON MY FUCKING LUNCH BREAK HERE!
woman		 Are you insane?!! How dare you talk like that in front of a child! The management is going to hear about this... I'm going to have you fired!
willie		That's a threat? You think you can make my life any worse, you go ahead, be my fucking guest!
kid		King me.
willie		FUCK YOU! YOU FUCKING CHEATER!
willie		Son of a BITCH! ...you LOUSY... STINKEN... ROTTEN... CHEATING... NO GOOD...
sue		YES! YES! YES SANTA YES!
sue		Nice place you got. Needs a bit of a woman's touch, but it's really nice.
willie		It's okay. Just renting.
sue		Thanks... So how long will you -- urn...
sue		...How long you gonna be here?
willie		Through the holidays.
sue		So what's the thing, you like kids?
willie		Fuck no! Whaddya think I'm some kind of pervert?
sue		Wha? I'm talking about you being Santa.
willie		Oh. No, see, the thing is... I'm not really Santa.
sue		Oh.  ...Well -- still -- I gotta thing for you anyway -- c'mere...
sue		So I'll see you soon I guess, right?
willie		Yeah, I'm gonna send you some flowers. Real good expensive ones.
willie		Whuh...
grandma		Roger! You're home! Let me fix you some sandwiches.
willie		What the...
willie		What the fuck did you do?
willie		...Lemme look at it. What the fuck happened?
kid		...I cut myself by mistake.
willie		I forgot to tell ya, that'll sting. Okay now!
willie		...Well fuck.
willie		...Don' t you want me to wrap it in a T-shirt or something?
marcus		You're late.
willie		Kids, lemmme tell ya...
willie		...They'll run ya ragged.
jesse		Morning boys.
marcus		Morning Jesse.
jesse		 Ho! Ho! Ho!
willie		Up your ass.
willie		GOD dammit!
marcus		You tear your ball again?
willie		No, it's okay.
marcus		Let's do the other thing.
marcus		There.
guard		Alright Gin, come on.
prisoner		Who are you?
gin		Your name Roger Merman?
prisoner		Yes, but --
gin		Doing three-to-six for embezzlement?
prisoner		...Many accounting questions are not cut-and-dried --
gin		You live at 41 Sage Terrace?
prisoner		 Is it Granma? Is my son alright?
gin		They're fine. Do you have any house guests?
prisoner		...House guests?
gin		Thanks much for your time. God bless.
prisoner		...Who are you? WHO ARE YOU?
gin		Well, it's fucked.
chipeska		 ...Yeah?
gin		Yeah. Fucked. Frankly.
chipeska		He's...
gin		Clean.
chipeska		 Oh.
gin		As a fuckin' whistle.
chipeska		Nothing?
gin		No. Nothing. I mean, shit, he curses, yeah. But never around children.
chipeska		Oh.
gin		No criminal record, no parking tickets f'Christ's sake, no bad habits, even. Sex, yeah. But man is a sexual being.
chipeska		Yeah.
gin		Fuckin' Darwinian. Can't do shit about that, Jack.
chipeska		NO.
gin		Wouldn't want to.
chipeska		Yeah. No. Of course not. I'm not advocating celibacy.
gin		Hope not. End of the human fuckin' race.
chipeska		Yes.
gin		Fucks large women. What can I say.
voices		Loser! Dipshit!
voice		Wedgie!
child		Pokemon.
willie		Done.
marcus		Next!
kid		Santa here?
marcus		Oh jeez.
willie		Is that your underwear?
kid		Part of it.
willie		Where's the rest? Never mind. What do you want?
kid		I was thinking I wanted a purple stuffed elephant, not pink, but now I changed my mind.
willie		What.
kid		Now I don't want an elephant at all. I want a gorilla named Davy for beating up the skateboard kids who pull on my underwear and he could take his orders from the talking walnut so it wouldn't be my bad thing.
willie		...You know when I was your age, I didn't need no fuckin' gorilla, and I wasn't any bigger than you. One day I came crying home to Dad because four kids had beat me up, and you know what he did?'
kid		He make it all better?
willie		No. He kicked my ass. You know why?
kid		You went bathroom on Mommy's dishes?
willie		What the fuck? No.
kid		He try to teach you not to cry and be a man.
willie		Nope, it was because he was a mean, drunk son of a bitch. When he wasn't busy busting my ass, he was puttin' out cigarettes on my neck.
kid		Uh-huh...
willie		The world's fuckin' unfair -- it don't give ya nothing. You can wish all you want but you gotta take what you need. Stand up for yourself... stop being such a pussy and kick those kids in the balls or something.  Or don't, I don't give a shit. Just leave me the hell out of it.
kid		'Kay. Thanks, Santa.
willie		Okay, go ahead...
willie		...Get the fuck outta here...
kid		'Kay...
marcus		 Time for the next lucky boy or girl to --
marcus		What gives? Where's the grandson?
gin		Open the rope there, Marcus.
marcus		I know you?
gin		Not yet.
willie		Santa don't do grab-ass, cowboy.
gin		Act natural.
willie		Huh? What?
willie		...What the fuck?!
gin		You are Willie Tugboat Soke and you are Marcus "The Prince" Skidmore. On Christmas Eve, you're gonna rob this store blind. What say we go somewhere private?
gin		Research, that's how. I'm a department store detective Sherlock, that's what I do. Seven cities in seven years. Pretty impressive. The stores change, your names change. You always get away clean. Yeah, pretty darn impressive. But let's face facts -- you all are a couple of half-bucket small-timers. Because of your physical attributes you've found a niche. I respect that. But you've also been caught. By me. So this is the way how we gonna do things. I don't want to take over, I don't even want to change your scam. Whatever you guys do, it works. All I want is a taste. When the deed is done, we part ways. I buy a ranch in Havasu, you take your little medicine show back on the road.
marcus		 How much?
gin		Half.
willie		Now you listen here, you --
marcus		Easy! Easy! Just back off, Willie. I can handle this.
marcus		Okay. Thirty percent. There's three of us. Thirty percent. That's fair.
gin		Half.
marcus		I meant thirty-three.
gin		Half.
marcus		And a third.
gin		Half.
marcus		Thirty-five.
gin		Half.
marcus		Forty.
gin		Half.
marcus		Forty-two?
gin		Half.
marcus		Forty-two five.
gin		Half.
marcus		Fooooooorty... eight.
gin		Half.
marcus		Forty-nine?
gin		Half.
marcus		Well...
marcus		...what's one point.
gin		Down the middle on the dough, and any merchandise you take I look over and cherry-pick.
marcus		No! Money's one thing, but --
gin		It ain't Chinese menu, jagoff. I tell yea how the way it's gonna be. This is pricks ficks.
willie		...Pricks ficks?
marcus		Ah, he's a fuckin' moron.
willie		Yeah, well I guess that's how you got the upper hand.
marcus		Fuck you.
willie		Negotiating.
marcus		Fuck you -- you don't like it, next year, fuck off. I can always get another box jockey.
willie		Yeah, and I can get another midget.
marcus		Yeah? Where? You see us hangin' off of fuckin' trees? Like fuckin' crab apples? And even if we did, you'd never front your own racket. 'Cause you got no discipline and zero fuckin' initiative. You'd fall apart without me. You're just too fuckin' pathetic --
willie		Yeah, yeah.
marcus		-- too fuckin' pathetic for words, you fuckin' loser. And you fuckin' know it.
grandma		Roger! You're home. Let me fix you some sandwiches.
willie		Ah, fuck it.
kid		...Santa?
willie		Yeah.
kid		What're you doing?
willie		Ah, nothin'.
kid		You goin' to work today?
willie		Not really.
kid		You just gonna sit there?
willie		Yeah. Lemme alone.
willie		-- Kid.
kid		Yeah.
willie		Later today, when the paramedics come and bag up Santa...
willie		...make sure the cops get this letter. It tells about all the bad things that -- that -- what the fuck happened to your eye?
kid		Umm...
willie		Well goddamnit...
kid		I didn't know he did that.
willie		I think I've turned a corner.
marcus		 Yeah? You fucking Petites now?
willie		No no. No; I beat the crap out of some kids today -- but, you know, for a purpose. It really made me feel pretty good about myself -- like I did something constructive for a change. Accomplished somethin'.
marcus		...You need many years of therapy. Many, many, many, many, many... many fucking years of therapy.
lois		Just looking...
willie		...Hello?
willie		...Granma?
willie		Granma...
willie		...Oh jeez.
sue		Oh my God...
grandma		Roger!
grandma		...You're home. Let me fix you some sandwiches.
willie		 No thanks.
sue		 Hello little boy.
kid		Hello. Santa?
willie		 ...yes?
kid		I know that Christmas Eve is in a couple days and you have to fly around and give presents to the world and after that you won't be around no more.
willie		...Yes?
kid		So I thought I'd give you your present now.
willie		 What the fuck is it?
kid		A wooden pickle.
willie		Why'd you paint it brown?
kid		Not paint. It's blood from when I cut my hand when I was making it for you.
willie		...Thanks.
kid		You're welcome. Good night Santa. Good night Mrs. Santa's sister.
sue		That was very nice. He's really a nice kid, isn't he?
willie		Hold on a minute.
sue		What?
willie		Nothin'... it's just... I'm... well... I'm sorta... fucking... touched.
willie		...I don't know if I can fuck...
sue		That's okay. That's okay.
willie		BABY, I DON'T KNOW IF I CAN FUCK!
sue		There, there... There, there...
kid		SANTA!
kid		You wanna see my report card?
kid		Think I did good?
willie		Who the fuck is Thurman? This is you? Your name's Thurman?
kid		Yeah.
willie		 Thurman Merman?!
kid		Yeah.
willie		Jesus.
kid		 You think I did good?
willie		Whaddya you care what I think, anyway?  What do I fuckin' know? Better than I ever did. I never got any B's,
kid		I thought maybe since at least I did good in school, you'll bring me a present this year. 'Cause last Christmas and the one before that you didn't bring no presents...
willie		Oh...
kid		...Even though I'm a dipshit loser.
willie		 Jesus Fucking Christ, Kid! Why do talk about yourself like that? What the fuck is that about?! What's with you anyway? I ain't Fucking Santa Claus! Look at me, I am living fucking proof that there ain't no Santa Claus!
kid		I know there's no Santa. I just thought maybe you'd wanna give me a present 'cause we're friends.
willie		Oh...
willie		 Look, kicking the shit out of those kids, that's as generous as I can get.
willie		JESUS FUCKING CHRIST, I GOTTA GO TO WORK!
marcus		No.
willie		You fuckin' spic!
gin		Sweet Jews for Jesus...
marcus		Holy motherfuck. What do you think you're doing?
willie		 I pissed my pants!
marcus		You son of a bitch!
gin		Alright, let's get him out of here. I'll go smooth this over with Chipeska. Food poisoning, something.
marcus		What do you mean, get him out of here?
gin		Take him to his car.
marcus		In case you hadn't noticed, I'm a motherfuckin' dwarf. So unless you got a forklift handy, maybe you should lend a hand.
gin		That figures, you wantin' all kinds of set-asides and special treatment 'cause of your handicap. You're all the same.
marcus		Special treatment? I'm three fucking feet tall, asshole -- it's a matter of physics! Draw me a sketch how I get him to the car!
gin		Bitch, bitch.
marcus		Sketch it up, fuckin' moron. Fuckin' Leonardo da Vinci.
gin		What did you call me, thigh-high?
marcus		I called you a fuckin' guinea Homo. From the fifteenth fuckin' century.
gin		I could stick you up my ass, smallfry.
marcus		Yeah? You sure it ain't too sore from last night?
gin		You got some lip on you, midget.
marcus		Well it was on your wife's pussy last night. Why don't you dust that thing once in a while. Asshole.
marcus		There he is... that lousy, leatherfaced, dago motherfucker...
gin		Jesus, Mother Mary and Joseph! What in the name of the holy lord Fuck is the problem now?
marcus		Sorry, the van stalled. Give us a jump will ya?
gin		Well, I'll be dipped in dogshit!... What am I, your auto mechanic now?
gin		 Help yourself, small fry.
marcus		It's hard for me to reach...
gin		Jesus Christ, give me those!
marcus		Thanks.
gin		 Alright, TRY IT!
marcus		Oh my, what a terrible accident!
lois		Is he dead?
marcus		No, but it looks like you broke most of his ribs.
marcus		 I'd say maybe... fifty percent of them? Or do you think thirty percent?
lois		I needed more of a running start -- I couldn't build up any speed.
marcus		 Motherfuck!
marcus		Shit!
marcus		Put it in reverse.
willie		'Tendo it is.
willie		...Everything I touch turns to shit and dies.
marcus		What are you, drinking Sterno now? 'Cause you're sounding like my Aunt Tilly right before she smeared her own shit on the bedroom walls and we had to lock her up and she spent the rest of her life with a shaved head and eating lunch through a tube up her nose...
marcus		...You better be in shape by this evening, fat man. After tonight, I don't give a shit. But this is the time to reach deep down and suck it up.
marcus		...Lovely boy.
willie		Barbie it is...
willie		...That it?
marcus		Let's go.
marcus		...Oh Christ.
willie		 Let's do it.
jesse		Merry Christmas, Willie.
willie		Up your ass.
marcus		All right...
willie		Oh shit...
marcus		What? What-What-WHAT-WHAT?
willie		It's a Kitnerboy Redoubt.
marcus		So?
willie		...You know Andy Pitts?
marcus		Yeah, Andy Pizzarelli?
willie		No, Andy Lapitski. Andy Pizzarelli is Andy Blue Balls.
marcus		Huh-uh, since he got married they call him An -- WHAT'S YOUR FUCKING POINT?
willie		Andy Lapitski can get into anything. Anything. They say he's been in Margaret Thatcher's pussy.
marcus		Yeah? YEAH?
willie		In the joint he told me that the Kitnerboy...
willie		...cannot be cracked.
marcus		ARE YOU FUCKIN' SHITTIN' ME?! Are you tellin' me after I've propped you up and held you together and smiled for all those kids and danced for all those fucking housewives in a fucking lime-green fucking velvet elf costume YOU CANNOT GET IN THAT FUCKING SAFE? ARE YOU FUCKING TELLING ME THAT?
willie		No... I'm saying it's gonna take me a minute.
willie		Piece of cake.
willie		...I'll be right back. I gotta grab one thing.
willie		Shit... which did he say?
willie		Well, I don't think that store dick is gonna want this.
marcus		Store dick don't want shit.
willie		Wuddya mean, fucking guy's greedier than...
willie		...greedier than fuck.
marcus		Store dick dead. Store dick don't want shit.
marcus		...Fuck the fuckin' store dick.
willie		Dead, huh...
willie		...I didn't even know he was sick.
marcus		Willie. This has been a long time comin'.
willie		Uh-huh.
marcus		Every year you're worse. Every year, less reliable. More booze. More bullshit. More butt-fucking.
willie		Sure. The three B'a.
marcus		You gotta be able to rely, Willie.
willie		You're monsters.
marcus		Believe me, Willie: there's no joy in this for me.
willie		Oh, I don't mean layin' me out. I understand that. But just look at ya. All the shit... grabbin' all this shit -- do you really need all this junk? ...This is Christmas?
marcus		Oh please. Don't gimme that trite "commercialism" crap. This is what we do, Willie. We get the shit. Christmas time, we get the shit. Because we are men. And Lois. It is Christmas, Willie, and we are men, and Lois.
lois		...Wuddya waitin' for, honey? Plug him.
marcus		Good-bye, Willie.
marcus		Huh? !
megaphone voice		And you, Santa! -- drop the elephant!
marcus		...Where did you come from?
chief		Tipped off.
willie		Shit!
willie		...Fuckin' kid!
chief		All three of you are in so much shit it's almost unbelievable.
lois		Gevalt.
marcus		Oh yeah? Well come'n get us, coppers! Ha-ha-ha-ha!
willie		Fuck me...
willie		...fuck me fuck me fuck me...
willie		...It's Christmas... and the fucking kid is getting his present.
megaphone voice		Halt, put your hands up!
willie		Up your ass!
police voice		All right, boys -- nail him!
cop		Somebody put a zipper on those fuckin' kids!
willie		...As for my little helper, I am sorry to have to tell you that him and his prune-faced mail-order-wife are gonna be exploring mountains with your dad. I hope your dad doesn't go sucking shit from them like I did. Meanwhile, I told the cops you had no one to take the fuck care of you, so they set it up with Mrs. Santa's sister watching you till your Dad gets back in one year and three months. They made her a Guardian Pro-Temp or some such shit... anyway, she makes better money than bartending and seems to like you and your house and Jacuzzi.
****Dialogues from script :Bad_Teacher.txt****

principal snur		Well, it's been another great year here at JAMS. Who can forget Mr. Pinkus' haunted classroom? Sandy, thank you. SANDY PINKUS, 40s, sporting a ponytail, smiles, clearly enjoying the small compliment.
sandy		I ain't afraid of no ghost. The other teachers laugh.
principal snur		Or the wild success of...
amy		Just wanted to remind everyone the school day's not over. So let's keep the drinking under control, hmm? That's it. Back to you, Wally. A bunch of teacher roll their eyes.
principal snur		Thanks, Amy,  . Or the wild success of the book drive for the women's prison sponsored by Ms. Savicki's class? A broad-shouldered teacher with spiky hair, MS. SAVICKI, nods.
elizabeth		Almost forty dollars. Thank you!
principal snur		Why don't you say a couple words?
elizabeth		Okay. Um... I'm not really good at this type of thing so I'll make it quick. I know I've only been here a year, but there's so much I'm going to miss...
angle on		The dim-looking kid that had Elizabeth sign his yearbook. He flips to the faculty section, and by the picture of Elizabeth is her message: "YOU ARE ILLITERATE!"
janitor		Slow down!
elizabeth		Yeah. You should have seen it. What a joke. She raises her glass for a toast. He raises his.
mark		See? Nothing. Just then, the wooden chest at the foot of the bed SNEEZES. Elizabeth opens the latch to find SHEILA, 23, dressed only in a thong, scrunched in the fetal position. She stands, revealing LARGE FAKE BREASTS, and steps out of the chest.
elizabeth		How could you do this to me?! I'm sorry.
elizabeth		You are buying me the biggest pair of yellow diamond earrings they make! I'm talking serious blood diamonds. Sheila SNEEZES again. Bless you.
mark		Don't talk to her like that.
elizabeth		Excuse me? I love her. Mark puts his arm around Sheila. Elizabeth eyes Sheila's large breasts.
elizabeth		You love her? She's a hooker.
mark sheila		She's not a hooker. I dance. Elizabeth takes a deep breath.
mark		I'm not. And you know why? Because Sheila loves me -- and not just for my money. Sheila squeezes his shoulder.
elizabeth		I'm sorry if I care that my future husband can support me. We didn't all grow up with a silver spoon in our mouths. You can't even imagine what it's like going to bed hungry, night after night.
mark		What are you talking about?! Both your parents are CPAs.
elizabeth		My parents worked their asses off to send me to private school. Do you know what it's like driving a Pontiac when everyone else gets a Beemer the second they menstruate? That shit stays with you.
mark		It's over, Elizabeth.
elizabeth		For the record, there's a shitload of things that I hate about you, but I still, would've gotten married.  Because I love you.
mark		 I'm gonna need the ring back. She grabs her bag and heads for the exit. Mark follows.
elizabeth		You sad little troll! I hope you and your hooker enjoy chlamydia together!
mark		Elizabeth. The ring.
elizabeth		 I'm not even listening to you anymore. She starts to open the door. He closes it. The ring!
elizabeth		Like I even want your gay-ass ring. She tries pulling it off.
elizabeth		 You've gotta be shitting me.
amy's classroom		The room has been decorated to within an inch of its life. Every surface is covered with posters like "Noted African-Americans," or "Hispanic American Hall of Fame," or "Women Who Dared." A RED DELICIOUS APPLE has been placed on each student's desk. Amy, dressed casually in cargo shorts and texas, is trying to hang a large "INTEGRITY" poster. She looks over, sees Elizabeth staring at her, and immediately lights up.
amy		Elizabeth Halsey, as I live and breathe!
elizabeth		Amy Squirrel.
amy		I know we barely got a chance to get to know one another last year -- what with you planning the wedding of the century and me juggling all my extra-currics -- but I just want to say that I'm super excited to be across-the-hall-mates.
elizabeth		Okay.
amy		And I know you kinda skated by last year, doing the bare minimum thing -- you were kind of a lone wolf -- but now you're back and I just know that you are going to rededicate yourself to the task at -- Amy notices Elizabeth's bare hands.
elizabeth		My fiance and I broke it off. I found him in bed with someone else. Oh my gosh!
elizabeth		It was another man.
elizabeth		Somebody doesn't.
amy		Hm. Another time then. Elizabeth takes an apple from a desk.
amy		Of course. I'd never serve a student unwashed fruit. CRUNCH. Elizabeth takes a huge bite out of the apple.
amy		Well, I think the students teach me at least as'much as I teach them.
elizabeth		Stupid. Elizabeth tosses the mostly uneaten apple into the trash and exits. It hits the rim and lands on the floor. Okey-dokey.
lynn		Oh sorry, am I interrupting?
elizabeth		Um -- kinda.
lynn		Do you want to grab some lunch?
elizabeth		I'm in the middle of something, Lynn. My treat.
elizabeth		Fine.
lynn		You have that thing going around, huh?
lynn		Are you excited for tomorrow?
elizabeth		Is tomorrow Saturday?
lynn		No, it's the first day of school.
elizabeth		Wait, I thought I had a week to get my class together.
lynn		Yeah, that was last week.
elizabeth		 Fuck my ass.
lynn		If you hate teaching so much, why don't you just get another job?
elizabeth		And do what? Sell perfume at the mall? Work at a day care center?  You know, when I first got into teaching, I thought I was doing it for all the right reasons: short hours, summers off, no accountability.
lynn		I love my summers. Fresh corn. Mmm.
elizabeth		From now on, my full-time job will be finding a guy who will take care of me --
lynn		Oh god, I pray for that --
elizabeth		And that makes a shit ton of money and doesn't ask too many questions.  I spent most of my summer hanging out at the bars near where the Bulls practice. Had some fun, got some cool souvenirs that I Ebayed, but those guys aren't looking to settle down. And they all wear condoms. And then they take the condoms with them. That's how paranoid they are that a girl will try and get pregnant. Like it's so easy to get pregnant from a guy nutting into a condom.
lynn		You're gonna find someone great.
elizabeth		I've been thinking about it a lot. I mean, I figure I'm like an 8, 8.5. But once I get my new tits, I'll probably be a --
lynn		You don't want to do that. You're already so pretty.
elizabeth		I know I'm hot, Lynn, but I don't stand a chance against all those Barbies dolls out there. Anna Nicole had it right, may she rest in peace. Lynn checks her watch.
lynn		We should finish up. Wally's doing that big orientation for teachers in the auditorium.
elizabeth		Yeah, I'm not going to that.
lynn		But it's mandatory.
elizabeth		 Ooohhh...
lynn		Yeah, I probably won't go either. I don't know I might. I'll probably go, but just sit in the back. Maybe leave early. Maybe stay till the end. Play it by ear. Or just stay till the end. Lynn takes both their, trays and dumps them.
elizabeth		Yeah, it was alright. When you said you were taking me to lunch, I kinda thought it was going to be nicer, but this was okay.
lynn		Sorry.
elizabeth		It's okay. You can get me next time.
elizabeth		Hey, Kirk, what do you think about me with Jessica Simpson's tits? He stares at her chest intently. She's not bothered by it. Go bigger. Kirk enters his bedroom and slams the door.
elizabeth		Cool, yeah. She glances at the clock: 3:14 AM.
chase		The photographer was, like, sooo nice. He made me feel sooo comfortable.
chase		Stalk much? Garrett quickly turns away. Chase rolls her eyes. An angry-looking kid, TRISTAN, wearing a MICHAEL VICK JERSEY, turns to Garrett.
tristan		What'd you say to me? Elizabeth, with large bags under her eyes, enters the class. Tristan, on a dime, heads back to his seat. The class immediately quiets down. SASHA, 12, dressed like a paralegal, walks up to Elizabeth with a large Tupperware tray.
sasha		Hi, I'm Sasha. It's a pleasure to meet you.  My mother baked these for you.
elizabeth		 Just leave them on the desk. Sasha, confused, gently puts them down and stands there. After a moment, Elizabeth looks up.
sasha		We're watching a movie on the first day?
garrett		I agree with Chase. Elizabeth pops in the DVD. "Stand and Deliver," starring Edward James Olmos as a tough-as-nails calculus teacher in an inner-city school begins. Elizabeth takes a bite of one of Sasha's cookies and immediately spits it out.
elizabeth		Ugh. Oatmeal raisin? She pushes the Tupperware tray into the trash next to her desk. Sasha looks on, sadly.
angle on		GARRETT, sitting alone, writing in a journal. Tristan, the bully, tosses a bowl of cole slaw at Garrett.
tristan		Incoming! Direct hit. The cole slaw nails him in the shoulder. Garrett picks some of the cole slaw off his shirt and eats it. He continues writing. Amy races over to Tristan and writes him up. Elizabeth watches, bored, struggling to keep her eyes open. Amy heads over to Elizabeth.
amy		Somebody's got a case of the sleepies.
amy		Did you see what just happened?
elizabeth		Yeah, that one kid hit the other kid with the cole slaw.
amy		You weren't at the orientation the other day, but we're doing something new this year. It's very exciting. We're splitting the cafeteria into quadrants. Elizabeth yawns.
elizabeth		Tell you what. Why don't you send me a memo, and if I have any questions, I'll come to you.
amy		Okay, Elizabeth. Sounds like a plan, Stan.
elizabeth		How do I know what you heard?
amy		Fair enough. Listen, I don't want to tell you how to run your class, but maybe it might be fun to do some ice-breakers. Like "Telephone Charades" or "The String Game." Or start doing practice questions for the state test. It's never too soon to start.
elizabeth		Are we gonna have a problem, me and you?
amy		Oh, shishkebobs, no. If I gave you that impression, I am so sorry. Actually, I was really hoping that we could be more than across-the-hall-mates.
elizabeth		I don't know what you've heard, but I don't munch box.
amy		No, of course not. I don't even know what that is. I just meant friends.
elizabeth		Like getting manicures and going shopping on Sundays? Shit like that?
amy		Yes! Yes! And helping each other out. Looking out for one another.
elizabeth		That's cool. Tell you what, friend, I'm gonna get going. Cover for me? Elizabeth doesn't wait for an answer, walks off.
scott		Hi. Can you tell me where Room 124 is?
elizabeth		I'll do you one better. I'll take you there.
scott		Oh, you don't have to do that.
elizabeth		Will you stop? It'd be my pleasure.
scott		Thanks! I feel like I've been walking around in circles for the last fifteen minutes.
elizabeth		Elizabeth Halsey, 7th Grade Language Arts. Welcome, welcome. They shake hands a beat too long. Elizabeth notices Scott's VERY EXPENSIVE WATCH.
scott		Good eye!
elizabeth		Thanks. I love men's watches. It's kind of a hobby.
scott		It's a bummer knowing my watch could feed a village for .a year, but my grandfather designed it, so...
elizabeth		Oh? Your grandfather designs watches?
scott		The family business. My mom's maiden name is Jaeger.
elizabeth		Shut up!
scott		My parents had a minor meltdown when I decided to join the Peace Corps and become a teacher. But they've been cool about it. Elizabeth smiles and they start walking down the hall.
scott		.. The poster. "Integrity." What a great message for the kids.
elizabeth		That's why I got it. They turn a corner. Garrett wheels his backpack past them.
garrett		Hey, Ms. Halsey!
elizabeth		Hey... dude... She slaps him five. Scott notices, smiles.
scott		Man, I can't wait for the day that I have my own classroom.
elizabeth		Yeah... So did you and your wife just move to town?
scott		I'm not married.
elizabeth		Me neither. I was engaged until I walked in on my fiance cheating on me. With his brother.
scott		That's horrible!
elizabeth		Nice to meet you, Scott Delacourte. Hopefully, we'll be seeing a lot of each other.
close on		A PAIR OF PERFECT FAKE BREASTS. A hand cups them from underneath. Pull back to reveal DR. VOGEL, 40s, and his receptionist, DANNI, probably in her 40s, with her shirt off. Elizabeth watches, rapt.
elizabeth		Wow. And the nipples are just... I love them. I'll take two. They all laugh. Elizabeth notices Dr. Vogel'.s watch.
elizabeth		I was thinking, you know, maybe a D.
elizabeth		Hmm. Yeah, I think I'll go with the D's, really turn some heads.
elizabeth		Doctor, I lost my fiance to a woman with monster fake tits. So now I need monster fake tits so that I won't lose my next fiance. Those are my expectations. Is that realistic enough for you?
danni		So you'll be off your feet for about two weeks... what works for you?
elizabeth		Let's do December 19th. Start of winter break.
danni		The 19th it is. So the total is $9300 for the surgery plus one night stay at our facility. How would you like to pay? Elizabeth laughs. Danni laughs.
elizabeth		That's absurd. What if I don't spend the night at your facility?
danni		The night's included in the price. Did you not read our literature?
elizabeth		No. A MIDDLE-AGED DOCTOR walks by.
danni		We accept all major credit cards.
elizabeth		My credit situation is complicated.
danni		I'm sorry, but if you can't pay, I can't schedule the appointment.
elizabeth		I'll be back. Elizabeth dramatically scoops a handful of mints from the bowl and storms out.
elizabeth		 So I won't beat around the bush, Grammy. She pulls the kitchen knife from her bag and SLASHES the back tire of a late-model CAMRY.
elizabeth		 Listen, limpdick, you owe me for breaking off the engagement. Do you know how embarrassing that was?!
kirk		Did you call my name?
elizabeth		No. I said 'fucking troll.'
kirk		Oh, I thought you said Kirk. He turns and heads back in to his room.
elizabeth		Hey, you got ten grand?
kirk		Nope. Kirk closes his door. After a beat, he opens it.
lynn		I don't know. That's a lot of money.
elizabeth		I know. And I hate asking a friend for money -- especially as good a friend as you. This has its desired effect on Lynn.
lynn		Maybe I could sell that jewelry my grandmother gave me?
elizabeth		That turquoise crap? Blech. No one's buying that.  But it looks great on you.
lynn		Thanks. What about Mark?
elizabeth		What type of person do you think I am?! That assbag cheated on me. Did I ever tell you that he has a mole on the tip of his dick?
elizabeth		I'm just trying to better myself. I don't think that's asking for so much. Amy walks over.
amy		'Scuse,me. Just gonna scooch in here. She drops quarters into the vending machine, but doesn't bother selecting an item. This was clearly her "in." She turns to Elizabeth and Lynn.
elizabeth		Huh. Well, do you think mental retards should be happy with the way they are? Amy stammers.
amy		I would never --
elizabeth		We don't all have your tits, Squirrel. So maybe you should think before you interrupt a private conversation.
amy		I guess that's what you get for trying to help... Amy pushes the coin release on the vending machine and takes back her change without getting a drink. Amy heads back to the couch.
elizabeth		That's right. Walk away. - There he is! Scott enters. All of the female teachers light up. There he is!
amy		Well, look what the cat dragged in!
scott		I wish it was under better circumstances. Stu Riley's car was vandalized last night. Right in his driveway.
amy		Gang members, probably.
elizabeth		We'll pick this up again tomorrow. The students shuffle out. Garrett hustles after Chase.
garrett		Quite a film, huh? Chase gives him a weird look and then exits with her friends. Sasha lingers by Elizabeth's desk.
elizabeth		 What.
sasha		I'm a student leader for the D.C. trip --
elizabeth		Shocker.
sasha		And we're having our car wash this weekend. If you're around, maybe we could wash your car.
elizabeth		I've got some Mexicans who already do it for nothing.
sasha		It's for a good cause. This year, we're trying to get some extra money so that we can go on a Duck Tour! She hands Elizabeth a flyer. Elizabeth glances at it.
school secretary		You can't go in there. He's with a student. Elizabeth ignores her, adjusts her blouse, and enters.
principal snur		If you don't like to get wet, Arkady, you could try using deodorant, anti-. perspirant, maybe some cologne. I know a lot of the older boys are wearing the body spray.
elizabeth		Blugh! Arkady and Principal Snur both look up. He holds up his finger -- "one minute." Elizabeth notices his cheap dolphin watch.
principal snur		So why don't you think about that and I'll let your teachers know that you're working on it? Arkady nods and quickly exits.
elizabeth		Sorry, I didn't realize you were in with anyone.
principal snur		We were just finishing up. Elizabeth, I actually meant to talk to you. Did I hear that you were showing movies all last week?
elizabeth		Um... some clips, maybe. I think in a lot, of ways, movies are the new books.
principal snur		Huh. Elizabeth tries a different tact. She picks up a dolphin- shaped clock from the desk.
elizabeth		Is this new? I love it! I think dolphins are smarter than humans.
principal snur		Me too! And if you like that, you'll love this.
elizabeth		What a great story. Principal Snur visibly relaxes. He's sitting across from a kindred spirit.
principal snur		So what else is new?
elizabeth		Actually, I was thinking that I want to get more involved.
principal snur		What a nice surprise.
elizabeth		Specifically, I thought I could supervise the car wash.
principal snur		Amy's been running it the last two years...
elizabeth		She just does so much. It might be nice to give her a little rest. Especially that early on a Saturday.
principal snur		I'm so happy that you're dedicating yourself and becoming a real member of the JAMS family.
elizabeth		It just feels so good to help.
amy		Elizabeth?! For the seventh grade carwash? That's bonkers!
principal snur		I just thought it was nice to see some other teachers step up.
amy		We raised over $6000 last year. That's a record. Is this really the best time to start experimenting?
principal snur		Amy, I see you taking on a.lot of responsibility, what with directing "Annie" and all your work with D.A.R.E. I'd just hate to see you get overwhelmed like you did in 2004. She stares at him -- clearly, this is a touchy subject.
amy		Of course. Well, I should skedaddle. Looks like someone needs to plan a Saturday morning bike ride. She turns on her heels and walks out.
garrett		Oh, I'm gonna get you guys! A couple of PARENT CHAPERONES stand in small clusters. Tristan, the bully, cocks his arm and aims a soapy sponge at Garrett.
elizabeth		 Sorry I'm late.
mother		 I'm going to say something about her outfit. The MOTHERS vigorously nod in agreement. A DAD pipes in.
dad		 Well, if it helps raise money... The other DADS vigorously nod in agreement.
elizabeth		Nothing. Get out of here, Dummy.
sasha		Are you stealing our money?
elizabeth		How dare you?! I'm here early on a Saturday for you guys. And for the record, nobody likes a tattle tale.
sasha		I haven't tattled. Yet.
elizabeth		Good. Cause if you do, I'll deny it and flunk your ass. How will that look on your resume?
elizabeth		Alright then. Now beat it. I've gotta finish counting this money. Sasha walks off. Elizabeth picks up a hose and sprays her.
angle on		ANY, across the street, watching through binoculars. She's straddling her bike and is wearing a helmet and a sheen of recently-applied suntan lotion. She takes a sip from her Camelbak, and pedals away.
amy		Shishkebobs. She hesitates a beat and then enters.
principal snur		Amy? What are you doing? Get out!
amy		This'll just take a sec. I thought you might want to know that Elizabeth Halsey showed up at the carwash in a bikini top and short-shorts. It was pretty racy stuff.
amy		 "Later we'll all die, said the gator to the fly."
principal snur		Look, Josh Gershman's dad called and said that the carwash was a huge success. And Lauren Rissman's dad called and said the kids had a great time.
amy		I don't want to speak out of school, but I happened to be pedalling by and saw her get.pretty chummy with the money. ,And remember, we barely know anything about her. She was a real lone wolf last year.
principal snur		Are you accusing Elizabeth of embezzling from the seventh grade car wash?
amy		Something about this doesn't pass the smell test, Wally.
principal snur		Well, they raised over $7000, so whatever she did worked. And next time you accuse a fellow teacher of stealing, you better be damn sure. We're done here. Amy takes a deep breath. Her face is BEET RED.
amy		Thanks for the pep talk. Have a super day, you two. Amy exits. Immediately, there is an IMMENSE ERUPTION from the other stall, followed by a sigh.
elizabeth		 Hey! Are those new Doc Marten's?
elizabeth		How's Period 5?
sandy		Great, thanks for asking. We got a new bassist and we finally got a regular gig, which is nice because it's earned. It's time to show the world that a bunch of teachers can really rock out.
elizabeth		Awesome!
elizabeth		Oh, I can't. Elizabeth exits. Sandy sadly takes a sip of his coffee.
sandy		I didn't even tell you the dates.
chase		Are we starting "School Ties" today? Elizabeth holds up her finger while she finishes reading a
elizabeth		Alright, today, we're starting "School Ties." Classic.  You, shut off the lights. Elizabeth goes to the DVD player. There's a knock at the door and the SCHOOL SECRETARY walks in holding a box. She hands it to a confused Elizabeth.
school secretary		Here it is. Good luck.
elizabeth		Here what is?
school secretary		It's the pre-test for the state standardized test. It was in the memo.
elizabeth		Oh, yes. In the memo. The Secretary leaves. Elizabeth stares at the box. Tristan and.a couple kids start making farting noises with their hands.
lynn		Major phony. But she also cares a lot, too.
elizabeth		Shit. Shit is going on with my boobs. I'm never gonna get married. I'm gonna die broke. I should just blow my brains out.  There he is! Scott walks down the ramp and HIGH-FIVES a bunch of kids. He gives them a big wave.
lynn		I love how his eyes sparkle when he smiles.
elizabeth		I want to sit on his face.
scott		Hey, guys.
elizabeth		You're really making a habit out of this.
scott		Ha, yeah. Actually, Sandy Pinkus in the Math department, I guess he got that stomach bug that's been going around and I got the call.
lynn		I heard he pooped himself in first period. A kid had to walk him to the nurse.
elizabeth		Lynn, would you mind grabbing me a milk? Elizabeth gives her a "can you get out of here?" look.
lynn		Scott, do you want anything?
scott		I'm good, thanks for asking. Lynn walks off.
elizabeth		So, Scott -- Lynn comes back.
lynn		Sorry, what kind of milk do you want? Skim? Whole? 2%? Chocolate?
elizabeth		I don't know. Surprise me.
lynn		Okay, I'll get you skim. No, no, 2%. Lynn walks off again.
elizabeth		She's funny. Elizabeth notices Amy looking at her as she continues to console the girl. Elizabeth turns back to Scott.
scott		Isn't it Back-to-School Night?
elizabeth		 Yeah, Silly, I meant after.
scott		Cool! Let's get a group together.
elizabeth		Yeah, definitely! Or just the two of us. Scott looks around, then lowers his voice.
scott		Oh. Um, listen, I'm really flattered. You're one of the nicest people I've met here. But... I'm actually seeing someone.
elizabeth		Oh?
scott		Yeah, we've been keeping it quiet.
elizabeth		Because she's ugly?
scott		No. She's beautiful. She's great. She really cares about the kids. It's just... when you're dating a co-worker...
scott		Anyways, thanks again for asking me out. I'm honored. And I'll take a raincheck on that group date. See ya! Scott crosses through the cafeteria. Lynn returns with a four cartons of milk.
lynn		Here you go. I got you one of each.
elizabeth		Hi, my name's Elizabeth Halsey. Soooooo... Any questions? Sasha's Mother eagerly raises her hand. Elizabeth points to her.
sasha's mother		Hi, I'm Sasha's mother. We waved to each other at the carwash. I'm a little concerned with the importance you're placing on movies. What about the state test? Elizabeth points to her sign on the wall -- "Don't Question My Authority."
elizabeth		That's exactly what I say to my students. Listen, I'm a good teacher. And the school hired me because I'm good at what I do.  And the reason your son loves my class is because I inspire him. Movies are one tool that I use. I also use other multimedia techniques, which I'm not going to get into right now. Look, I could take you day by day through my entire syllabus, but that's not how I do things. I'm not one of these stuffy teachers who's totally by the book. I talk to the kids like they're little adults. It's about mutual respect. So that's my spiel, as the Jews say.
elizabeth		Chris... Great kid -- and precocious. You must be so proud.
chris' dad		Oh, what a relief. I just wish his grades would reflect it.
elizabeth		If I know Chris, he'll get there.
chris' dad		Listen, I know you have a full plate, but if you could keep an eye on Chris, my wife and I would really appreciate it. Chris' dad shakes her hand. Elizabeth opens her hand, sees a tightly folded HUNDRED DOLLAR bill. She looks back up at Chris' dad.
elizabeth		You're Chase's parents? Great kid -- and precocious. You must be so proud. The parents beam.
chase's mom		You think we should hire a tutor?  I told you.
chase's mom		Oh, to be a teacher.
elizabeth		It's just so hard, on my salary, having to pay for my supplies, my fiance cheated on me with his twin sister... and, unlike a lot of these other teachers, all I truly care about is helping your child learn. And as their personal tutor, I guarantee a full grade higher -- or your money back. Chase's mom takes out her check book.
melody		Excuse me, Ms. Halsey. I just wanted to introduce myself. I'm Melody. Garrett's mom.
melody		Oh, you're referring to his poetry. Thank you.
elizabeth		You must be so proud.
melody		I am. So so so so so proud. So proud.
elizabeth		A kid like that, if I could just give some more one on one time, he would just blossom.
melody		I'm so happy to hear you say that. would really benefit from that.
elizabeth		Unfortunately, in a class of twenty- five...
melody		Ugh. Class sizes are ridiculous.
elizabeth		And with the amount they pay teachers...
melody		Thank god you love what you do.
elizabeth		I guess what I'm getting at is, maybe you could help out by giving me a little -- you know -- somethin somethin. Elizabeth offers her hand, palm up. Melody stares back at her blankly.
melody		You know what I'm going to do for you? Melody opens her pocketbook. Elizabeth smiles.
elizabeth		So long, Crazy. As Elizabeth pulls out the CASH she just made, we hear the opening beats of COOLIO'S "GANGSTER'S PARADISE."
elizabeth		Enough with the commotion! The hallway goes silent. She comes back in and UNPAUSES the movie. The SONG comes back on.
elizabeth		 What do you want? Sasha motions for her to roll down the window. Elizabeth doesn't.
sasha		Is that marijuana?
elizabeth		It is. But it's medicinal. Doctor gave it to me. Not that it's any of your business.
sasha		Oh, okay. Feel better.
elizabeth		 Are those oatmeal raisin?
sasha		Sugar. Elizabeth considers, then manually rolls down the window a crack. She grabs the container and quickly closes her window. Elizabeth starts eating a cookie.
elizabeth		You have anything to drink? Sasha shakes her head.
sasha		I don't want to run for congress. I want to be president.
elizabeth		See? That's what I'm talking about. Keep saying stuff like that, you're gonna get punched. You really want to be President or is that what your parents tell to be? Sasha shrugs.
sasha		If I think about it, will I get extra credit?
elizabeth		 Hopeless. Watch your feet.
elizabeth		Seriously?
elizabeth		Seriously? She sees a HOMELESS GUY leaning against the storefront.
homeless guy		It's Christmas.
elizabeth		Seriously? Elizabeth looks around. The streets are empty. Not a person in sight.
homeless guy		Merry Christmas!
elizabeth		Whatever.  Hey, you got a lighter?
homeless guy		I don't smoke. It's bad for you. Elizabeth walks back to her car, empty-handed. A MINI- VAN passes. Stops. Reverses.. The window rolls down. It's Garrett and his Mom.
garrett		Ms. Halsey! Hey, it's me, Garrett!
melody		Merry Christmas, Ms. Halsey!
melody		Having a nice Christmas?
melody		What are you doing the rest of the day? Going to see your family?
melody		Ms. Halsey.  Elizabeth. Would you like to have Christmas with us?
melody		This is a real treat for Garrett. He doesn't have a lot of friends come by the house.
elizabeth		I find that hard to believe.
garrett		I thought we could play board games!
elizabeth		Yeah, I love helping bums.
melody		Oh, but you have to wait for dessert. We have a real treat.
elizabeth		If it's cheesecake, I'll stay.
melody		It's even better than cheesecake!
garrett		 Oh god, no one wants to hear it. Oh god, I'm so embarrassed!
melody		Don't be shy, Marbles. Garrett runs out of the room.
elizabeth		If you're not really serving dessert, I'm gonna have to get going.
melody		One poem? If you like it, maybe you can read it to your homeless friends.
garrett		This is called "The Chase," by Garrett Tiara.
elizabeth		She sits back down.
garrett		We'll dance our dance / We'll revel in romance perchance / One glance / One dance / Because together we can achieve...  Ba-lance... Thank you. He closes his journal. Everyone applauds. Melody looks to Elizabeth for a reaction.
elizabeth		Junior likes to rhyme.
melody		Patty, Nancy, why don't you give me a hand with dessert -- give them a chance to talk about the poem. The women exit, leaving Garrett and Elizabeth.
elizabeth		So your poem's about that girl?
garrett		Chase, yeah. You got the subtext.
elizabeth		Can I give you some advice?
garrett		Please.
elizabeth		Number one, stop writing poetry. Two: stop reading it. And three: don't set your sights so high. I mean, she's really hot. If I were you, I'd try for that chubby girl that sits up front -- the one with the teeth? Elizabeth puts her hands to show teeth going off in different directions.
garrett		But I like Chase.
elizabeth		Not gonna happen. Look, I was that hot girl. Hotter, even. And I never would have gone out with a kid like you. And I'm not saying that to be mean. I'm saying it to be helpful.
garrett		What do you know? You don't-even know our names.
elizabeth		I'll tell you what I know: a kid who wears the same "Gymnastics" sweatshirt three days a week isn't getting laid
elizabeth		Well, there's a reason he didn't pack it.
garrett		 Fuck you. Elizabeth pats Garrett on the shoulder.
elizabeth		Good luck being a loser. Thank your mom for dinner. Elizabeth heads for the door.
garrett		Happy New Year. Are you spending that alone, too, or do you want my mom to invite you over? She gives him the finger over her shoulder and leaves.
elizabeth		Shut up.
lynn		Hey, welcome back.
elizabeth		What is that, vomit? Lynn grabs some towels and blots at the stain..
lynn		Yeah, and a little blood. The kids had too much sugar.
elizabeth		Ugh. No. Elizabeth heads out. Lynn, still blotting, follows her.
scott		Hey, guys. Are you coming to 'In Cahoots' tonight? My band's doing a few songs. Could be fun.
elizabeth		Um, yes! That sounds like a party.  Lynn, do you want to come?
lynn		Yes.
scott		We'll all grab a drink!
elizabeth		Great. I need to get drunk. I mean, not drunk drunk. But a strong buzz. Still be able to drive home.
scott		 Now we're cooking with grease!
scott		Rockabye, rockabye...
sandy scott		Bye, bye... Bye, bye...
angle on		Elizabeth and Lynn at the bar.
lynn		Aren't they terrific? Elizabeth eye-fucks Scott. She catches his eye and he quickly smiles before nervously turning his attention to Amy. Elizabeth watches Amy dance in SLO M0, her BREASTS bouncing up and down.
elizabeth		 They're perfect.
lynn		You should hear some of their originals. She turns to the bartender.
elizabeth		Two more.  You want anything?
lynn		No thanks... You know, I was thinking that if you still need that money, you should.try and go for the bonus. Can't hurt.
elizabeth		What bonus?
lynn		For the state test. 
elizabeth		How much?
amy		Cold.
shawn		What do you think's going on? Spencer shrugs.
elizabeth		Come on, come on. We have a lot to cover so sit down. The class, still confused, quickly take their seats.
garrett		Because she's a cry baby. The kids chuckle. Chase looks back at Garrett.
sasha		 You never assigned it to us.
elizabeth		Well, now I am. And we're having a quiz tomorrow. Panic.
sasha		You can't do that! I have band and jazz band tonight!
shawn		We haven't had homework all year!
elizabeth		Hey! Zip your shit! We've fallen behind, and honestly, your practice tests scores sucked balls -- which was embarrassing to me both on a personal level and as an educator.
elizabeth		Did you get my Cool Ranch? He tosses her a bag of chips.
kirk		You owe me two bucks.. Kirk walks into his room and closes the door.
elizabeth		Okay, now, what is the significance of the Mockingbird in the novel? What was Harper Lee trying to tell us? No one raises their hand.
chase		It's a symbol for, um, equality? Elizabeth puts a sticker on Chase's forehead.
elizabeth		Okay, good. Can anyone add to what that girl said?
tristan		Ladies and Gentlemen of the jury, you've heard the "facts," but come on, you know me. I'm Atticus Finch, baby! The class laughs.
elizabeth		Use examples from the book.
spencer		It doesn't matter what race the defendant is. You've just gotta look at the facts-. Elizabeth nods in agreement. The bell RINGS.
elizabeth		Good work today. And don't forget to leave your closing statements on my desk.
amy		So, you know how I hate to gossip, but I heard that one of the custodians walked in on Omar -- you know, that Arabic boy -- giving...
sandy		It just starts younger and younger.
scott		Hey, Ms. Halsey.
amy		Your shirt's mis-buttoned. Her shirt's mis-buttoned.
amy		Yeah, it's been quite a change.
elizabeth		Well, I should get going. Nice seeing all of you. Amy and Elizabeth smile thinly at one another. Elizabeth squeezes Scott's shoulder as she exits. Amy notices.
amy		What else, Sasha?
sasha		I don't know. I told you about the car wash money.
amy		I can't prove that. What else?
sasha		I think I've told you everything.
amy		And no more movies in class?
sasha		No, we're actually learning. Did you know that Animal Farm isn't even really about animals --
sasha		I want it! Let me think... Oh there was... never mind.
amy		What?
sasha		It was okay. It was medicinal.
amy		Wait. Hold your horses. What was medicinal?
sasha		Ms. Halsey was smoking in her car, but she told me her doctor prescribed it.
amy		Trust me, Wally. My kids in D.A.R.E. tell me everything and there are drugs in this school. And not just the students. Some of the female teachers.
spencer		Whoa. Drug dogs. Cool.
elizabeth		Sit down. Elizabeth races to the window.
elizabeth's pov		The Police officers and the dogs enter the classroom next to hers. Elizabeth glances back at her pocketbook.
principal snur		Elizabeth, sorry to bother you. This will only take a second. Elizabeth,. still choking, digs into her purse. She grabs her cough syrup and takes a huge swig. Elizabeth wipes her mouth, breathes normally.
elizabeth		Sorry. I had something caught in my throat. The German Shepherd continues barking.
garrett		Ahhh!!! The'Police Officer starts rummaging through Garrett's bag and pulls out an opened bag of CORN CHIPS.
amy		 Even though that wasn't drugs, junk food is still contraband. That's detention, Buster.
principal snur		Enough, Amy. I think it's time we call off this witch-hunt.
elizabeth		 Thank you, Principal Snur. Now if you'll excuse me, my class has a state test to prepare for. Principal Snur, Amy and the Police Officer exit. Elizabeth slumps down into her chair, and all at once, the combination of WEED and COUGH SYRUP HITS HER.
chase		Are you okay, Ms. Halsey? Elizabeth takes a long beat before answering.
elizabeth		Class dismissed.
sasha		But the bell didn't ring.
elizabeth		Get out of my face.  And leave the corn chips. The class uncertainly gathers their things and heads out. From outside Elizabeth's window, we SEE the SCHOOL BUSSES idling curbside. Elizabeth stares at the papers she still needs to grade. The papers stare back at her.
elizabeth		Balls! She knocks the stack of ungraded papers to the ground. After a beat, she collects herself, goes to pick the, papers off the floor. As she starts tossing them into the trash, something catches her eye: a PRACTICE TEST MANUAL. And in the corner, an address:
frat guy		Hi there.
elizabeth		Is Tucker here?
tucker		Do you ever talk to my brother?
elizabeth		No. He dumped me, remember?
tucker		You and my brother always had the histrionics.
elizabeth		Like I told "Frat Guy #1," I'm not interested.
tucker		Then what's up?
elizabeth		I need some date rape drugs.
tucker		 Two things. Number one: who do you think I am? Yeah, I like to party and yeah, I'm in an awesome frat, but that really hurts. And two: they're not "date rape" drugs. It's called GHB -- and it's for weightlifting. It helps build mass, okay? Why do you even want it?
tucker		That's all you needed to say. No need to get all histrionic on me. Tucker walks over to a chest, opens it, and takes out a small lockbox. He unlocks it and takes out a small bottle containing a clear liquid.
elizabeth		Get your hand off my ass.
tucker		Sorry, didn't even know I put it down there. Good luck with your lifting.
carl		Marjorie? "Marjorie" turns and we SEE that it's actually ELIZABETH, wearing the "Little Orphan Annie" wig. She's sipping a cocktail.
elizabeth		You must be Carl. His face lights up, excited to be in the company of such an attractive woman. Elizabeth stands and extends her hand. Carl notices Elizabeth's very short skirt.
elizabeth		Great drive. I love downstate Illinois.
carl		First time to Peoria?
elizabeth		Hmm mmm.
carl		A lot of people don't know this, but it's the largest city on the Illinois River.
elizabeth		Wow. I did not know that.
carl		Yup yup. And it was actually founded before Chicago.
elizabeth		Hello, Jeopardy! Have you ever auditioned?
carl		 No. I should, I should. Definitely thought about it.
elizabeth		Listen, I'd love to sit here and chat with you all night.
carl		Yeah...
elizabeth		But I'm sure you're a very busy man, so I'll get right down to it.
carl		 You can't use my name, okay?
elizabeth		No problem.
carl		Like I told you on the phone, every couple of years, we get calls from all over the state with these cockamamie charges. You should hear what they call me. And I'm not a racist. I voted for Obama.  That, you can quote me on.
elizabeth		Oh, right. Elizabeth takes out a notebook and pen and starts jotting down notes.
carl		Look, Marjorie, I know my tests aren't perfect. But what's the alternative? I'm all for free thinking and creativity, but how do you formulate an education budget without hard numbers from one of my tests?
elizabeth		You don't need to convince me. But you know what would help, Carl? For me to see one of this year's tests.
carl		No problem at all. Elizabeth lights up.
elizabeth		I'd really love to see it sooner. I'm on a bit of a deadline.
carl		I wish I could, but unfortunately, you need one of these bad boys. Carl holds up a lanyard with a STATE ID CARD and some keys attached.
elizabeth		Ooh, you look like you're CIA. Listen, I totally get it. Enough business for one night.
carl		My poison is the white devil. Wine. White wine.
elizabeth		Fantastic.  One white wine, one tequila sunrise, and two shots of tequila.
carl		You know, Marjorie, this is the best night I've had in a longtime.
elizabeth		Well, that makes two of us. Elizabeth gives Carl "fuck me" eyes. He nervously sips his drink.
carl		Everything.
elizabeth		You know what turns me on, Carl? He giggles nervously.
elizabeth		Even better.
carl		 So this is the desk.
elizabeth		Do you have anything to drink? Carl goes to a mini-fridge and pulls out an already opened bottle of white wine.
carl		Um... I could put on some internet radio. Carl goes to fiddle with his computer. Elizabeth quickly reaches into her purse and pulls out the bottle of GHB. She pours a little into Carl's wine. And then a little bit more. As he turns around, she hands him the glass.
elizabeth		A toast. To new friends.
carl		To new lovers. CLINK. Carl downs his glass.
elizabeth		Whatever, man. I'm gonna hit the lady's room.
carl		K, first door on your right. Don't be long. Carl starts carefully clearing everything off of his desk.
elizabeth		Easy, Cowboy. Carl stumbles towards her. Elizabeth deftly moves around the desk and exits into the bullpen.
carl		Marblorie!
elizabeth		 Carl, I'm gonna need you to pass the fuck out. Carl smiles as he feebly chases after her. He. stops at the photocopier, steadies himself momentarily and then passes out, STILL STANDING. Elizabeth grabs the lanyard from Carl's neck and heads back into his office. She goes over to the filing cabinets, unlocks it with one of the keys, and starts rifling. She pulls out a folder.
elizabeth		Okay, go. The students open their test books and start. Twenty- five pencils hit paper in unison.
elizabeth		Okay, pencils down. A couple of groans. A couple of frantic moves to fill in more scantron bubbles.
amy		If anyone has any information regarding the whereabouts of the missing "Annie" wig, please let me know ASAP. Because if that wig isn't found, you can bet your bottom dollar the "sun will not come out tomorrow." Back to you, Wally. Amy sits. Principal Snur addresses the teachers.
principal snur		Thanks, Amy. Um, okay, I'm sure everyone wants to go home, so I'll be quick.
principal snur		 So I have here the results of the state exam -- and I'm happy to announce that John Adams Middle School had the fifth highest scores in the state. The Teachers applaud.
amy		 Oh boy, third year in a row. This is starting to get embarrassing.
principal snur		Elizabeth Halsey! Elizabeth leans over to Amy, who's sitting beside her.
elizabeth		This is unexpected. All of the color drains from Amy's face as Elizabeth stands and waves at the crowd.
scott		Hey, if it isn't Professor Smartypants. Scott playfully punches her shoulder. Elizabeth playfully punches him back.
elizabeth		Something big. Maybe two big things. Amy walks up and gives Elizabeth a big, fake hug.
amy		Hey! Ism so proud of you. If someone told me at the beginning of the year that you -- you! -- would get the bonus, I would've said to whomever it was, 'you must be joshing me.' And now, here we are. Here we are.
scott		We should go out and celebrate.  Your treat?
amy		What a good, fun idea. Unfortunately, Scott and I have to go over the itinerary for the D.C. trip. We're the chaperones. We're going together.  We're dating, so it'll also be romantic. You're not dating anyone now, right?
elizabeth		I've got my eye on someone, but he's dating a major cunt.  Pardon my French.
scott		No, she sounds terrible.
elizabeth		She is.
amy		Well then. Scott, we should skedaddle. Those itineraries won't schedule themselves. Amy and Scott head off. Scott turns around.
scott		Rain check on those drinks.
danni		Almost done. We don't normally deal with cash here. At the doctor's office. Elizabeth slides the bonus check across the desk.
elizabeth		And this is endorsed. And the rest you can put on these. Elizabeth slides four credit cards across the desk. The MIDDLE-AGED DOCTOR from earlier walks by.
danni		And when would you like to come in?
elizabeth		Today. Tomorrow. As soon as possible. Danni checks her calendar.
danni		A week from tomorrow, then?
elizabeth		Book it. Danni slides Elizabeth a packet of literature.
danni		We have a 48 hour cancellation policy. Anything after that, you'll be charged 50% the cost of the surgery -- unless there are extenuating circumstances.
elizabeth		I wouldn't miss it for the world. Elizabeth pulls her shirt away from her body and looks down at her breasts.
principal snur		All set?
scott		I think we're good.
principal snur		Elizabeth, thanks again for hopping in last minute. You really saved us.
elizabeth		Is Amy going to be okay?
principal snur		She'll be fine. But to be honest, I think she was scaring some of the kids.
elizabeth		I bet, I bet. Well, let her know she's in my thoughts.
angle on		Amy watching from outside her car. One side of her face is completely blistered, scaly and red from the POISON IVY. The kids have every reason to be scared by her. She gets into her car and slams the door.
amy		 Fudge! Fudge! Fudge! Fuuuuuck--dge!
sasha		I think I hear it again!
kids		You're wanted on the telephone!
elizabeth		 You guys are amazing. Period 5 is definitely going to make it. Scott smiles wide. Garrett walks up the aisle. He looks at Elizabeth, then turns to Scott.
garrett		Mr. Delacourte, do you think we could go to the poetry museum?
scott		Oh, um, I don't know, Champ, um -- Scott looks to Elizabeth, like "please help."
elizabeth		 Oh, honey, I bet everyone would just love to walk around and look at all the poetry on the walls, but unfortunately, the itinerary's really tight.
garrett		Why are you talking like that?
elizabeth		Just go sit down, sweetie. Garrett gives her an annoyed look and then heads back to his seat. Scott smiles at Elizabeth.
scott		Wow, you are such a natural.
elizabeth		When you love what you do, it comes easy.
amy		 I never lose my keys!
maintenance guy		What's wrong with your face?
amy		What's wrong with your face?!?!
maintenance guy		Just making conversation. He finds the right key and opens the desk.
amy		 Super! Thanks a bunch, Amos! The Maintenance Man exits. Amy immediately opens the desk and rummages through it. She pulls out the "Annie" wig.
scott		Alright, guys, count-off. The students begin their count-off.
carl		She changed her hair. Is Marjorie in some kind of trouble?
amy		I think you're the one that might be in some kind of trouble! Did you or did you not give her a copy of the state test?
carl		What?! No!
amy		What article?
carl		For the Tribune. She's a reporter there. Right? Amy's eyes go wide.
garrett		Hey, you want me to take your picture?
chase		No.
garrett		Alright, well let me know. I've got my camera and my battery's fully charged. She turns away.
elizabeth		Yeah, everyone knows that.
scott		I just hate slavery so, so much. An unquestionable evil. I hate it. Elizabeth continues struggling with the fruit.
elizabeth		Slavery's the worst.
scott		If I could go back in time and undo slavery, I would. Elizabeth gives him a sideways glance, like "no shit."
elizabeth		You really hate slavery, huh?
scott		I hate it. Elizabeth finally dislodges the chunk of fruit roll-up.
elizabeth		 Got it.
scott		 You get it. Scott squeezes Elizabeth's shoulder.
elizabeth		Hey, I want you to know you can talk to me about anything. Slavery, the Holocaust, relationships. Scott smiles. Elizabeth smiles. They lock eyes -- a moment.
principal snur		 Test-tampering. Here? At J.A.M.S.?
amy		And like I said, she stole the wig. I think we're dealing with a criminal master-mind.
principal snur		I know. It's a tragedy. But Amy, let's keep this between us. The last thing we need is a scandal on our hands.
amy		You betcha.  You know what scares me the most? This is just what we know. This could be the tip of the iceberg. Who knows what else she's capable of?
scott		Oh my gosh, your body feels so good.
elizabeth		Harder, harder. Elizabeth tries pulling off her shirt. Scott pulls it back down.
scott		Oh my gosh, I'm dry-humping the shit out of you.
elizabeth		Erg. Dry fuck the fuck out of me.
scott		Oh my gosh, I'm so close... I'm... pfft. Ugh. Scott rolls off of Elizabeth and exhales deeply. There's a wet spot on his jeans.
elizabeth		That was fast.
scott		I know, I'm sorry. But this isn't me. And I. know this isn't you. I'm in love with Amy.
elizabeth		But we're so good together. We both hate slavery, we both love teaching. And call me crazy, but I always imagined us spending summers at your family's compound in Hyannisport.
scott		I know. And you're awesome and you have a huge heart and I love your empathy. It's just, when I was dry-humping you, I couldn't stop thinking about dry-humping Any.
elizabeth		It's because of my tits, isn't it? Well, I'm getting new ones in, like, two days. Don't make a decision until you see them.
scott		Elizabeth, I think you're beautiful just the way you are, even with your flat chest. And I think Amy's beautiful. But I just have to do what's right. I made Amy a promise.
elizabeth		What're you -- 13? Elizabeth angrily gets up and pulls on her socks.
scott		Wait, Elizabeth. Don't go. Spend the night here with me. You can sleep on the other bed.
tour guide		And does anyone know what Abraham Lincoln's nickname was? Sasha's hand shoots up.
sasha		Honest Abe.
tour guide		"Honest Abe", that's right. Because Lincoln always said what was on his mind, even if that meant being unpopular. Abraham Lincoln always showed great courage. Garrett takes this in. He looks over at Chase and then, after a beat, raises his hand.
garrett		I love Chase Streeter-Rossi. All eyes turn to Garrett. Chase looks mortified.
tour guide		Okay then. Any other questions?
garrett		 I love you, Chase. I've always loved you. And even though you pretty much stopped talking to me in fifth grade, I don't care. I remember the Chase that wrote me a card when my dad was overweight and had to go to the hospital because of his heart --
sasha		That was from the whole class.
garrett		Shut up, Sasha, I'm talking about a different card.
chase		Gross. Chase's friends all start laughing. The rest of the class joins in. Garrett runs down the steps, away from everyone.
scott		Alright, guys, let's settle down. The Tour Guide looks around, uncertain.
elizabeth		Hey, Abe Lincoln, get up. Tour's not over.
elizabeth		You'll get over it. Get up.
garrett		I'm not going back. Leave me alone!
elizabeth		Now.
garrett		No! Garrett runs off.
elizabeth		Hey, come back here you little -- Elizabeth starts running after him in heels. She immediately breaks a heel.
scott		Who had a good time in D.C.? The students let out a cheer. SCOTT  Alright, let's do our final count-off.
tristan		A beat.
sasha		I think it's Garrett Tiara.
scott		Garrett! Garrett! Nothing. Scott looks around, stricken.
elizabeth		Garrett! Garrett! Her cell phone RINGS. She checks the caller ID: "HOT SCOTT." She puts the phone back in her purse.
scott		I don't know. You think?
amy		I know. The woman's a criminal mastermind.
scott		This is such a mess.
amy		What I need from you is to focus and get our kids home safe. I'll take care of everything here.
scott		Thanks, Amy. You're a lifesaver.
amy		It's what I do. Love you, Scooter. She hangs up the phone and cockily kicks her feet onto the table, accidentally knocking the turtle to the floor.
elizabeth		Fantastic.
elizabeth		Poetry?
elizabeth		Thank you, Poetry. And Poetry's friend. Elizabeth walks off and sticks out her hand, trying to hail a cab. She passes a bunch of HOMELESS MEN warming up by a trash can fire.
john		Hey, sweetheart. How much for a titty fuck?
elizabeth		I need a ride.
john		Oh yeah, I need a ride, too. Right through those titties.
elizabeth		No, I need a ride. Like you driving, and me pointing mace at your face. I'll give you ten bucks.
reporter		What can you. tell us about the alleged romance between Elizabeth Halsey and a 13 year old student?
sasha's mother		Oh Sasha!  You expect this stuff to happen in Florida, not here.
elizabeth		It's closed. Won't be open till morning. Come on. Let's get back to the hotel. I'm sure everyone's mad at you. Garrett stands his ground.
garrett		I'm not leaving without talking to the poet laureate.
elizabeth		Do you think that some Shel Silverstein wannabe is going to tell you the meaning of life?
garrett		What do you care?
elizabeth		I'm here, right?
garrett		You have to be here. You're a teacher.
elizabeth		Not for long. I'm getting fired for cheating as soon as we get back. Garrett takes a seat next to Elizabeth.
garrett		So. you came looking for me on your own?
elizabeth		Yup.  And you owe me a new pair of Nanette Lepores.
garrett		I just want to know what to say to Chase to get her to like me.
elizabeth		You know what you should do?
elizabeth		Just go out and sleep with as many girls, as you possibly can. Get her out of your head.
garrett		They'll probably reject me, too.
elizabeth		Yeah, probably. But life's about how you deal with rejection. You can either hide in a corner and cry or you can get stronger every time. And I figure a kid like you with not much going for him -- if he were to choose the latter -- might end up becoming a pretty strong man.
elizabeth		Now come on, let's get out of here. I'm freezing and Mr. Delacourte's probably shitting a brick.
garrett		I can't go back there. All the kids will laugh at me.
elizabeth		You seriously think they haven't been laughing already?
garrett		Maybe Chase is wondering where I am.
elizabeth		Hate to break it to you, kid, but I don't think anyone gives two shits where we are.
detective		What else can you tell us about Garrett and Ms. Halsey's relationship?
melody		It was strictly student/teacher. Garrett's a gifted poet and Ms. Halsey was trying to bring that out of him. Amy snorts.
detective		Did they ever spend time outside of the classroom?
melody		Aside from Christmas at our house? Absolutely not. The Detective glances at the Principal, like "Oh boy."
amy		She used to give all the guys that look. That sex look. You know -- Amy gives her version of a sexy look to the Detective.
detective		Mrs. Tiara, I think we might need to consider the possibility that Elizabeth Halsey has abducted your son and that the two of them are involved in a sexual relationship.
detective		 We should send out an Amber Alert. We need to catch this Sicko.
reporter		A school official close to the scandal confirms that in addition to her alleged sexual relationship with the unnamed seventh grader, Elizabeth Halsey has been investigated for possible drug use, standardized testing fraud, and the theft of an "Annie" wig from a school production. The TV Report flashes an unflattering photo of ELIZABETH with a BLURRED OUT GARRETT. In front of the school, the Reporter turns to Principal Snur.
principal snur		The superintendent will speak to the press shortly, but for now, I'd just like to say that I hope Ms. Halsey does the right thing and brings back our student.
mark		Am I shocked? Mark starts laughing.
sheila		She was always very cold to me.
chase		 Garrett sat diagonal from me in language arts. He was always so supportive of my modelling career.
tristan		I've been telling him to hit that all year. That's my boy!
amy		 "No child left behind." How ironic. That a child was left behind. In Washington, D.C. With a statutory rapist.
garrett		Hey, there's a bunch of people outside of my house. Elizabeth wakes up and looks up to see: A CANDLELIGHT VIGIL, including Amy, Scott, Melody, and many. of Garrett's classmates; a SEA OF TV CAMERAS; and
elizabeth		What the fuck?  Did you steal something? The taxi pulls up to the curb and Elizabeth and Garrett .exit. CHAOS. They're immediately swarmed by everyone. The Cops struggle to push past.
sergeant		You're quite the celebrity.
elizabeth		You want an autograph?
sergeant		You get one call. Elizabeth picks up the phone. The Sergeant gives her some space.
sergeant		If you need medical attention, we're required to provide it.
elizabeth		Just take me back to my cell.
principal snur		Again, speaking on behalf of the whole administration, I just want to apologize for what happened. Clearly, there was a miscommunication.
elizabeth		Oh, you think? Kirk puts his hand up to Elizabeth, like "I'll take care of this."
kirk		My client has been an upstanding member of society her entire life. She has spent time as an educator, she has
elizabeth		More than once!
kirk		And she has touched the lives of those around her -- until last night. Elizabeth pulls Kirk into a lawyer/client huddle.
kirk		Your administration jumped to conclusions, set off a media fire-storm and has humiliated one of its own. As Ms. .Halsey's chief counsel, I've advised her that we have an extremely strong case of libel and that it's certainly within her province to sue the district.
superintendent		How do we make this go away?
kirk		Ms. Halsey is not a litigious woman. She wants this whole matter to go away as quickly and painlessly as possible. Kirk slides a piece of paper across the desk.
superintendent		You're kidding me.
elizabeth		Don't answer right now. Let it marinate. Oh, and I should mention that if this goes to trial, I can cry on cue. Elizabeth starts crying. Everybody looks at her, aghast. And as quickly she started, she stops.
amy		Elizabeth! I was so worried. You gave us quite a scare, you did. Elizabeth doesn't acknowledge her and continues walking toward Amy, only feet away now.
principal snur		I think that was a huge s-u-c-c-a-s-s. Polite laughter.
sandy		Speech! Speech!
amy		Although leaving was a difficult choice... Amy looks over to Elizabeth, who motions for her to continue.
elizabeth		Here, I got you this. Elizabeth hands Amy a poster tube. She.opens it and unravels the "Integrity" poster that Elizabeth stole.
scott		Hey, Stranger.  Listen, now that Amy's transferring, maybe the two of us could go grab a drink.
elizabeth		You and Chase, huh? She likes the poetry?
garrett		She likes that I'm kind of a celebrity. But I'm cool with it. I'm the man around here!
elizabeth		Easy.
garrett		Well, I should get going. See you around, Ms. Halsey. Oh, and nice... He points at her breasts.
lynn		Elizabeth, hey! How was your summer?
elizabeth		It was great. I met a doctor! Plastic surgeon, actually. He's amazing.
lynn		He sounds amazing. How'd you meet him? The internet?
elizabeth		No, in recovery. And I looked like ass, so I know it's real.
lynn		Sounds like a fairy tale.
elizabeth		It is. Storybook. Well, not total storybook. It's a little messy because his wife filed for divorce last week, but we're gonna get through that.
lynn		Sure! My treat.
elizabeth		No, you got it last time. We'll split it.
****Dialogues from script :Badlands.txt****

kit		I'll give you a dollar to eat this collie.
cato		I'm not going to eat him for a dollar... I don't think he's a collie, either. Some kind of dog.
kit		Watch your heads.
kit		Hey. Woody. Gimme a cigarette.
kit		Woody wouldn't give me a cigarette.  Ever notice he don't talk much?
bum		Nah. they wouldn't fit.
kit		How do you know? You hadn't tried them on yet.
bum		Nah.
kit		Gimme a dollar for them... Cost twenty new.
kit		Why don't you see if they fit you?
kit		I throwed enough trash for today, Cato.... I'll see you In the morning.
cato		Catch!
kit		What do you mean?
kit		Hi, I'm Kit. I'm not keeping you from anything important, am I?
holly		No.
kit		Well, I was just messing around over there, thought I'd come over and say hello to you.  What's your name? I said mine.
holly		Holly.
kit		Listen, Holly. you want to take a walk with me?
holly		What for?
kit		Well. I got some stuff to say. Guess I'm kind of lucky that way. Most people don't have anything on their minds, do they?
kit		Oh, incidentally, my last name is Carruthers. Sounds a little too much like druthers, doesn't it?
holly		It's okay.
kit		Well, nobody asked me what I thought. They just hung it on me.
holly		You still in school?
kit		Nah, I got me a job.
kit		Well, I don't mind getting up early, so I got a job throwing garbage... I'm not in love with the stuff, okay.
holly		That's my father. I got to run.
kit		Hey. wait a minute. When am I going to see you again?
holly		Well, I know what my daddy's going to say.
holly		Can I be honest?
kit		Sure.
holly		Well, that I shouldn't be seen with anybody that collects garbage.
holly		Yeah.
holly		Nothing.
holly		Well, I mean there's nothing he wants to know about it... I've got to run.
father		Who was that?
holly		Just some boy.
holly		Is that going to kill the grass?
holly		You got some on my feet.
father		What'd he want?
holly		Just wanted to know if we needed any yardwork done... I said no, and for him not to bother us.
kit		I used to throw trash for the City.
clerk		You lost that one?
kit		Wouldn't be here if I hadn't.
clerk		What kind of work do you think you would be qualified for?
kit		I can't think of anything at the moment... I'd like you to write me out a slip, though, proving I came down here.
clerk		Well, I think we could find you something... working cattle over at the pens.
kit		Well. what the hell. Just hope there's a breeze.
kit		Hi.
holly		Well, stop the world.
kit		Quit my job.
holly		Great.
kit		Just seemed like the right move... Whatcha doing?
holly		Spanish.
holly		Something mi trabajo.
kit		Yeah, well, I'm going to work as a cowboy now... Or thinking about it. It's a routine, like anything. What do you think?
holly		I don't know.
kit		Well, at least nobody could get on me about wearing these boots any more.
kit		You want to go for a ride?
holly		Well, I got homework.
kit		Somebody dropped a bag on the sidewalk.
kit		Everybody did that, the whole town'd be a mess ... Hi.
kit		You're a redhead.
holly		I know.
kit		Anybody ever call you "Red"?
holly		Yeah, but I don't like it.
kit		Why not?
holly		Just don't... I've got a headache.
kit		Yeah?
holly		What a nice place.
holly		And the flowers... Let's not pick them. They're so nice.
kit		It's your play.
holly		My stomach's growling.
kit		There's an old Fudgesicle over there. You want it?
holly		No.
kit		Somebody else is going to get it.
holly		I don't care.
kit		Kids eat that kind of stuff in Korea.
holly		Did it go the way it 'uz supposed to?
kit		Yeah.
holly		Is that all there is to it?
kit		Yeah.
holly		Gosh, what was everybody talking about?
kit		Don't ask me.
holly		Well. I'm glad it's over... For a while I was afraid I might die before it happened... Had a wreck, some deal like that.
kit		You see where that tree fell in the water?
holly		Yeah... The river must've washed the roots away... You don't care about anything I say, though.
kit		You know what I think?
holly		What?
kit		That we should crunch our hands with this stone. That way we'd never forget what happened today.
holly		But it would hurt.
kit		Well, that's the point, stupid.
holly		Don't call me stupid.
kit		Okay, but I'm going to keep it for a souvenir...
kit		Or maybe one that's lighter.
kit		Sure is pretty.
father		What'd you come out here for?
kit		I wasn't aware there was any law against it.
kit		You know Holly... well. she means a lot to me, sir.
kit		You know, before I met her, nobody could ask me how I was doing with my girl. Matter of fact, I didn't really have one.
father		Is that right?
kit		Yeah.
kit		It okay me leaning on your Willys here?
kit		Listen. I got a lot of respect for her, sir.  That's about as good a one as I know to tell you.
father		Well, it's not good enough.  Just what do you think would happen to her if she stuck around with you, Kit? Guy like you.
kit		She'd get along okay. And if she didn't, well, she could take off, just take off,  I wouldn't mind... I'd always tell people I deserved it.
father		You get out of here. I don't want you hanging around any more. You understand?
father		 You're something.
kit		Takes all kinds, sir.
kit		Hi.
father		What're you doing?
kit		I've got a gun here, sir. It's always a good idea to have one around.
father		What do you think you're doing? Go on, get out of here.
kit		Well, I got it all planned... and I'm taking Holly off with me.
father		Okay, boy, I'm turning you over to the authorities.
kit		What for?
father		For coming onto my property... With a gun.
kit		No, you're not either.
kit		Cause I can't allow it.
kit		Hey... Hey, wait a minute.
kit		Suppose I shot you. How'd that be? Huh?
kit		You want to hear what it sounds like?
kit		Hey, where you going?
holly		Daddy... This is Holly... Are you going to be okay?
kit		I came in the front.
holly		How bad off is he?
holly		We better call the doctor... Listen. I'll say how it happened, part I saw.
kit		He don't need a doctor.
holly		Are you sure?
kit		You don't believe me, see for yourself.
kit		I found a toaster.
kit		Listen, honey. I don't want to...
holly		Listen, maybe we ought to tell somebody about this.
kit		You said that once already... Too late now.
holly		Why?
kit		They're not going to listen to me. You either. Are you kidding?
holly		Suppose the neighbors heard the noise?
kit		Wouldn't be funny... Listen, I'll be back in a while.
kit		Oh... You want to call the police, that's fine. Just won't be so hot for me.
kit		My girl Holly and I have decided to kill ourselves, same way I did her dad. Big decision huh? Well, the reasons are obvious, and I don't have time to go into them right now... One thing, though... He was provoking me when I popped him. That's what it was like, a POP.
kit		Course nobody's coming out of this thing happy, especially not us. You can't deny we've had fun, though. Which is more than I can say for some.... Mmmm. that's the end of the message. I run out of things to say... Thank you.
kit		How you doing?
kit		Yeah, me too.
kit		Take a break. Red... Life of Riley, huh?
holly		One of the chickens died last night.
holly		I almost stepped on him.
holly		"The Kon-Tiki in motion was a little different from what it usually was in such conditions. We had become sensitive to changes in the rhythm of the logs. I thought at once of suction from the coast, which was drawing near, and was continually out on the deck and up the mast..."
kit		He was nervous.
holly		"Time passed. At dawn, just before six, Torstein came hurrying down from the masthead. He could see a whole line of small palm- clad islands far ahead..."
kit		Holly!
kit		Get in the car, Red.
kit		We don't need this.
kit		How you doing, Cato?
cato		Not bad.
kit		Take that sombitch.
kit		What you been doing?
cato		Running this place for a fella in town. Nothing much to speak of.
kit		Well, I don't notice us hustling trash, either.
kit		Where'd you get them antlers?
kit		Oh, Cato, I want you to meet my girl, Holly Sargis.
holly		Did you hear the one about the guy in the nuthouse that went around naked, with only a hat and gloves on, and this nurse came up to him and said, "Hey, what... You can't walk around that way," and the guy says, "What's the matter? Nobody comes around here." Anyway, the nurse says, "What do you have the hat and gloves on for, then?" And the guy says, "Well, you never know."
kit		Isn't that funny?
cato		Yeah, I guess.
holly		Don't you ever get bored around here?
cato		Sometimes. The other day, though, an old boy was plowing in the field over there, found some old Spanish coins.
kit		 That's what he told you, huh?
holly		What'd they look like?
kit		Let me finish my supper.
kit		We're thinking of going down to Texas. Holly wants to visit some of her people down there, but after that I don't know... They say Mexico's nice.
cato		Kit... Maybe I'd better get a shovel.
kit		Okay.
cato		I'll catch up with you.
kit		Okay.
holly		I found a lid. It was laying on the ground over there.
kit		Put that down. It's dirty.
kit		Cato!
cato		The shovel's in the truck.
kit		Look at all this junk.
holly		How's he doing?
kit		 I got him in the stomach.
holly		Is he upset?
kit		He didn't say anything to me about it.
kit		Bunch of junk.
kit		He stole that cage. I saw him doing it.
kit		Whatcha looking in there for? We can't afford any of that.
holly		Hi.
holly		That your spider in there? in that bottle?
cato		Yeah.
holly		What do you feed him?
cato		Oh, flies... grasshoppers when I can catch 'em.
holly		Does he bite?
cato		He never bit me.
boy		Hi. where's Cato?
kit		Well, he's gone.
boy		Gone? ... Where?
kit		He said not to tell.
kit		Yeah, he said for you to give us a lift into town. You're the ones with the Studebaker, aren't you?
boy		Well, I just need to pick up something in the house.
kit		No... You go in there, I'll have to kill you.
boy		What's going on?
kit		Can't afford to take chances.
kit		Let's us step out in this field here.
kit		Nah, skip that... I'm going to have to keep an eye on you, though.
boy		Okay.
kit		You don't mind?
holly		Hi.
girl		What's going to happen to Jack and me?
holly		You have to ask Kit. He says frog, I jump.
girl		Okay.
holly		What's your friend's name?
girl		Jack.
holly		You love him?
girl		I don't know.
holly		I've got to stick by Kit... He feels trapped.
girl		Yeah. I can imagine.
holly		Well, I've felt that way, hadn't you?
kit		Okay, you two, down in the cellar.
kit		You promise to stay down there for an hour?
boy		Yeah.
kit		You expect me to believe that?
boy		Yeah.
kit		I'm going to shut the door.
kit		Think I got 'em?
holly		I don't know.
kit		Well, I'm not going down there and look.
holly		We're in for it now... If they catch us.
holly		What'd you put him in there for?
kit		You tired?
holly		Yeah.
kit		Yeah, you look tired... Listen, honey. when all this is over, I'm going to sit down and buy you a big, thick steak.
holly		I don't want a steak.
kit		Well, we'll see about that... Hey, lookie.
kit		They're probably going to blame that on me, too, bastards.
kit		Hi, I come to check the meter. My tools are in here.
kit		Oh, this Is Holly. She's from Texas.
kit		Excuse me.
kit		Hi.
rich man		Yes?
kit		This your place?
rich man		Yes.
kit		Sorry to barge in on you. Anybody else here besides you two?
rich man		No.
kit		Good deal... Oh, uh, we're on the run and we'd like to hang out here for a while. Couple of hours, maybe. How'd that be?
rich man		Stay as long as you like.
kit		Next time I ring that, it means time to clear out.
kit		Listen to your parents and teachers. They got a line on most things, so don't treat them like enemies. There's always a chance you could learn something.  Excuse the grammar.
holly		Hi... Kit's downstairs playing with the dictaphone... Sometimes he acts like there's something wrong with his bean.
holly		Hope nothing ever goes wrong with mine.
rich man		Think he's crazy, huh?
holly		I don't know... He's kind of odd.
holly		Gosh, I like your house.
rich man		Thank you.
kit		Hi.
visitor		Hi... ah, Mister Scarborough here?
kit		Yeah, but the thing about him, he's down with the flu. He's sick.
visitor		Really?
kit		Yeah. I'd invite you inside, except it's contagious. Don't want to start an epidemic.
visitor		No, of course not. It's only that he called last night and asked if I could come by.
kit		Well, he didn't have it last night.
kit		What's that?
visitor		Well, I'd like to leave a message, if that's okay.
kit		Sure.
kit		You have to excuse me now. I have to go back inside. Bye.
kit		We're out of here, Tex.
kit		Hi, whatcha doing?
rich man		Just thinking.
kit		Good a way to kill time as any... She okay?
rich man		Yes.
kit		Listen, ah ... We're going to take the Cadillac for a while. How'd that be?
rich man		Fine.
kit		Don't worry, I won't let her drive.
kit		Okay, ma'am, let's go . . . come on.
kit		You're my friend, aren't you?
rich man		Yes.
kit		Okay, no monkey business then.
kit		Groceries.
kit		That guy could sell that list I gave him as a sample of my handwriting.
holly		Well, why you always walking behind me?
holly		Don't.
kit		Anybody ever done that to you before?
holly		No.
kit		Positive?
holly		Yes.
kit		Guess there's no way I'll ever know. For sure.
kit		That guy must pay through the nose to keep this place up... Lawn, the gas and electric... Bagworms. Plus the upkeep on the cars... Yeah, you get a little money in your pocket, you think all your problems are solved. Well, let me tell you, they're not.
holly		I'd like to get out of here.
kit		Soon as I start the car... and fix my hat.
holly		"Rumor Pat Boone is seriously considering giving up his career so he can return to school full-time and complete his education. Fact Pat has told intimates that so long as things are going well for his career, it's the education that will have to take the back seat."
kit		I don't blame him.
holly		"Rumor Frank Sinatra and Rita Hayworth are in love... Fact True, but not with each other."
holly		That's Montana over there.
kit		I never been to Montana... Acquaintance of mine has, but I hadn't... Never had any reason to.
holly		State bird's a meadowlark.
holly		Well, I feel kind of like an animal living out here. I mean, there's no place to bathe and... no place to get anything good to eat.
kit		Well, I'll catch you a big trout. Soon as we get to the mountains.
kit		Everybody loves trout.
holly		I'm serious.
kit		Maybe we should've tried to hop it.
holly		It was going too fast.
kit		I could've pulled the car up on the tracks, slowed it down some.
kit		Well, maybe we oughta be stuck here. I'm not saying that I know.
holly		You're crazy.
kit		Well, maybe the slope here is throwing it off some. We ought to find a more flat place.
holly		How about over here?
kit		Never mind. It doesn't matter... If I'm worth a damn, I'll pick the right direction. And if I'm not, well, I don't care. See what I mean?
kit		Well, I shouldn't expect miracles, should I?
kit		We'll keep on heading for that mountain... Just remember I said it wasn't such a hot idea.
kit		 I could get a job with the Mounties. The Northwest Mounties ... Hell, I got all the qualifications. I can ride, shoot and... I don't mind the cold. Fact. I kind of like the cold.
holly		What?
kit		Nothing... I was just running off at the mouth... as usual.
holly		I'm sorry. I wasn't listening.
kit		I was just talking about going after a job... Hey. don't lip it.
holly		You know... they'd probably ask to see your driver's license before they hired you.
kit		You smoke Pall Mall?
holly		Yeah.
kit		Nah, you hadn't seen me when I'm going after something, honey. Tough?
kit		Hey. don't touch that... Nat King Cole.
kit		Boy, if I could sing a song like that... I mean, if I could sing a song about the way I feel right now, it'd be a hit.
kit		God, what a sight... Tell me this, honey. What does a little Texas girl like yourself think of a sight like that?
kit		Love this air.
kit		Morning... Say, you got any gas?
roughneck		Maybe.
kit		Well. I'm sorry. sir. but we've got to ask you for it.
kit		Just a second now. That's your truck. isn't it?
kit		Well, listen. I'm going to swap you my Cadillac.
kit		Now don't worry. You're getting a fair deal. Hell. what's the blue book value on this thing, Mildred?
kit		Name is Carruthers. Believe I shoot people every now and then. Not that I deserve a medal.
holly		Kit!
kit		Okay, friend. start running.
kit		Git.
kit		Boy. I had a feeling today was going to be the day... Helicopter.
holly		Yeah.
kit		He's not coming to take us for a ride. either. Come on, let's make a run for the car.
holly		I don't want to.
kit		Have you got a better idea?
holly		I just don't want to go.
kit		What?
kit		What is wrong with you, huh?
kit		What is the matter with you, huh!?
kit		Boy, I don't know what to make of you. People like you.
kit		You want a second chance, then listen. Twelve noon the Grand Coulee Dam, New Year'ss Day. 1964. You meet me there... Now you got that?
kit		Hey, anybody here?
kit		Hi... Say,, you got any shells for a Savage, a .300 Savage?
attendant		Nope.
kit		Damn. I pissed all mine away shooting up bottles... You want to fill her up for me? Please?
kit		If you want any of that junk, it's yours.
kit		Hi.
sheriff		Hold it right there.
kit		I could've held off an army if I could've gotten behind a rock in the mountains.
deputy		We did it, Ray.
kit		You better not leave that Cadillac sitting out here.
sheriff		Put your hands in back of your head.
sheriff		Now put the other one on yourself.
kit		You're going to give me a cauliflower ear, Sheriff.
deputy		He should've thought about that before he got caught... Shouldn't he?
deputy		Hup!
kit		Think I'll take the juice?
sheriff		Beats me.
kit		Say, what kind of rifle was that you were shooting at me?
deputy		Thirty aught six.
deputy		Nope.
kit		You tossed my hat out the window.
kit		No.
deputy		Kit... Kit, I've got a question for you.
kit		Mmmmm.
deputy		You like people?
kit		They're okay.
deputy		Then why'd you do it?
kit		I don't know. Always wanted to be a criminal, I guess. Just not this big a one... Takes all kinds though.
deputy		You know who that sombitch looks like?  You know, don't you?
deputy		I'll kiss your ass if he don't look like James Dean.
mechanic		How you doing there, Kit?
kit		You think?... it's leather.
kit		Hey, now here's a real prize. I must've had this about ten years. Who's going to get it?
kit		There you go.
kit		South Dakota. Where you from?
kit		Want a comb?
kit		Yeah, she got out of there, too.
kit		Eddie Fisher. Who's yours?
kit		Damn! Want a pen?
kit		Don't you read the papers?
kit		No sir, I hadn't.
kit		Hey, listen, Tom, I don't mean to tell you how to run your show here but these cuffs are pinching. What do you say now?
deputy		I need to get your signature on some papers here, Kit.
kit		Well, I've got to read them first. Suppose I could get a Coke while I do?
deputy		Sure thing. Come on.
kit		You boys keep out of trouble.
guardsman		Don't worry about us.
deputy		Holly's over here, Kit. if you want to see her.
kit		Sure.
kit		You want to give me a little slack here?
kit		Don't worry now.. I'm going to get you off these charges... There's a whole lot of other boys out there. You're going to have a lot of fun.
kit		Boy, we rang the bells, didn't we?
kit		I'll say one thing, though... That guy with the deaf maid? He's just lucky he's not dead, too.
kit		Course it's too bad about your dad.
holly		Yeah.
kit		We're going to have to sit down, and talk about that sometime.
kit		Thank you very much, Chief Sims. Sorry if I caused you any inconvenience.
chief		You didn't cause me any trouble.
kit		Thanks anyway.
deputy		Well, Kit...
kit		Tom...
deputy		Good luck to you.
kit		Thanks.
deputy		I mean it.
kit		I know you do. Good luck to you, too.
trooper		Now we go.
kit		Come on, Red.
kit		Sir... Where'd you get that hat?
trooper		State.
kit		Boy, I'd like to buy me one of those.
trooper		You're quite an individual, Kit.
kit		Think they'll take that into consideration?
****Dialogues from script :Bamboozled.txt****

cheeba		Yo, let's get to it.  You don't dance, we don't eat.  Simple as that.
cheeba		Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I know everybody is in a hurry to work, ready to begin another day in this rat race.  But don't sleep us. I'm Cheeba and I introduce to you the world renown MANRAY, the man with the educated feet.
delacroix		Good morning, Cheeba.
cheeba		Good morning to you, Mr. Delapot.
delacroix		De-la-croix.
cheeba		Y'know what I mean.  Got a gig yet for Manray and I yet?
delacroix		Not yet.
cheeba		Gracias.
delacroix		Manray, Sloan says you're too talented to be dancing on the street.
manray		Well do something about it.
delacroix		Good morning, Marie.
marie		It's not gonna be a good morning for you if you don't get into Dunwitty's staff meeting.
delacroix		What staff meeting?
marie		The staff meeting that started 30 minutes ago.
dunwitty		Monsieur Delacroix, this very important meeting commenced...
dunwitty		I'm sorry I'm late.
dunwitty		Do you know how much information can be dispensed in one minute alone?
delacroix		I didn't find out about this very important staff meeting until...
dunwitty		So are you telling me everyone knew about this get-together except you?
delacroix		I wasn't told about this until Marie informed me as soon as I got off the elevator.
dunwitty		People, you can attempt to pull a Rodman like our friend Delacroix, but I guarantee you'll be sent packing just like him.
joan		So what do you want us to do?
dunwitty		What I want everyone to do is write some material that is FUNNY.  The junk you've been writing is about as funny as a dead baby.  It's not funny, it's not new.  It's not sexy. It, it, it...
fish		Sucks.
dunwitty		SUCKS.  Thank you, Fish.  This meeting is over but I want everyone to seriously think about what I said and how you can deliver.
sloan		How was it?
delacroix		Why didn't you tell me about this staff meeting?
sloan		Nobody told me anything.
delacroix		What good are you if you don't tell me stuff like this?
sloan		It wasn't my fault.  If I would have known, I would have known.
dunwitty		Do you know what C.P. Time is?
delacroix		C.P. Time is Colored People's Time. The stereotypical belief that Negroes are always late.  That Negroes have no sense of time - time except when it comes to music or dance.
dunwitty		Let's sit down over there.
delacroix		I understand.  But again, in all honesty I was not informed.
dunwitty		Forget it.  I believe you're my most creative person I've got on staff.  You're hip.  You know what's happening.  I got some corny white boys and girls writing for me.
delacroix		I would prefer you not use that word in my presence.
dunwitty		NIGGER.  NIGGER.  NIGGER.  NIGGER.
delacroix		Say it again.  C'mon, say it again.
dunwitty		The material you've been creating is too white bread.  White people with black faces.  The Huxtable's, Cosby, revolutionary.  But that's dead.  We can't go down that road again.
delacroix		I don't agree.  The Negro middle class does exist, and it's rich material for a dramatic series or sitcom.
dunwitty		I'm telling you it's not.
delacroix		...to white?  I still feel all of my scripts would make good shows.
dunwitty		Delacroix, wake up, brother man. The reason why they didn't get picked up was because nobody - and I mean NOBODY - niggers and crackers alike wants to see that junk.
delacroix		I've never been given a fair shot.
dunwitty		You got your head stuck up your ass with your Harvard education and your pretentious ways.  Brother man, I'm blacker than you.  I'm keepin' it real and you're frontin', trying to be white.
delacroix		I'm an oreo, a sell out?  Because I don't aspire to do HOMEBOYS FROM OUT OF SPACE, SECRET DIARY OF DESMOND PFEIFFER, A PJ's or some as you might put it, some "nigger" show?  I'm a Tom?  I'm whiter than white and you're blacker than black? Is that what you think?
dunwitty		That's exactly what I think.  I want you to create something that people want to see.  Let's be honest, the majority of the people in the country are deaf, dumb and blind and I'm including 35 million African-Americans.  You know and I know "niggers" set the trend, set the styles.  This is a golden opportunity now.  These idiots have to be led to the water.
delacroix		I'm not sure if I can deliver what you want.
dunwitty		You will or you'll be back at BET so quick you'll never know what hit you.  I need a mid-season replacement and pronto.  It will be on the fast track.
delacroix		What is it you want from me?  Some plantation follies?  Some sitcom that takes place on a watermelon patch?  Some show that follows four nigger generations of junkies and crackheads?  You want me to go back to the ante bellum days?
dunwitty		Yes!  Yes!  Yes!  I want a show that will make headlines, that will have millions and millions of households tuned in, glued to their televisions every week.  I want advertisers dying to buy on this show.  I'm gonna squeeze this show out of you if it kills you.
manray		I'm starvin' like Marvin.
cheeba		My world famous, famous world Arroz con pollo will be ready very soon.
manray		Hurry up, I wanna watch HBO.
cheeba		Did we get our bill yet?
manray		I guess that will come with the rent, gas, and Con Ed bills, too.
cheeba		Ahh, the luxuries of life.
manray		Yo, check it.  This is good and all that but one day soon I want to have much Benjamins so I can have a nice crib and pay all my bills. You hear me.
cheeba		Chill, I'm the brains behind this outfit.
manray		And I'm the feet.
cheeba		Yo, you gotta show some patience. You want me to snap my fingers and presto chango - you're an overnight sensation.  Son, there is no such thing.
manray		I'm tired of waiting.
cheeba		Oh snap!  It's a raid!
police chief		Please evacuate this building.  All of you are illegal residents of this condemned building.  Please leave immediately, by order of the Mayor of New York City, Rudolph Giuliani.
cheeba		Not this way.  Out through the fire escape.
manray		My tap shoes.
delacroix		EUREKA!!
sloan		Oh my God!!!
delacroix		Manray!
sloan		Manray!
delacroix		How did you know?
sloan		It hit me like a ton of bricks.
delacroix		How can this be?  You and me at the same time, the exact same thought. It's scary.
sloan		The idea was out there in the universe.  Now what?
manray		We ran out without my shoes and the floor.  I gotta get my stuff.  What about our savings?
cheeba		Are you crazy?  The joint is crawling with cops now.  You wanna go to Rikers?  Go to the hoosegow?
delacroix		Manray was under our nose the whole time.
sloan		Do you know how you will use him?
delacroix		Not yet, but this thing will never get made.
sloan		You lost me.
delacroix		Dunwitty wants a Coon show.  And that's what I'm going to give him, it's going to be so racist, so negative, he won't have the balls to put it on the air.  Hence I'll prove my point.
sloan		What point is that?
delacroix		The point being that him, the networks don't want Black people on television unless they are buffoons.
sloan		Sounds risky to me.
delacroix		You getting cold feet?
sloan		I'm in till the end.
delacroix		Good.  I'm going to need your support.
sloan		Can't you just quit?  Walk away?
delacroix		And lose out on my money?  The only way I get paid is if I get fired. And that's what I intend to do.
sloan		Maybe something happened to them. Maybe they're lying in an alley bleed to death.
delacroix		Manray better not be bleeding to death.  I need him.  After we're done he can do whatever he wants to do, until then, he's ours.
sloan		You're beginning to sound like Dunwitty.
cheeba		His name is Delapoint.
cheeba		Delapot.  Dela-something.
manray		Sloan!  She knows us.
sloan		It's alright.  They are associates of Mr. Delacroix.
sloan		That won't be needed.
delacroix		Eureka!  Where've you been?
cheeba		You'd take no offense if we called you DeLa for short?
delacroix		No offense.
cheeba		Manray needs a job.
manray		We got evicted from our home. We've both been on the streets for the last week.
cheeba		We was coming to see you.
manray		If it's not too much trouble could you order us some food?
cheeba		We're starving.
delacroix		I apologize.  What would you like to eat?  Anything you want.
delacroix		I have this concept for a TV pilot. There's no guarantee it will get made but regardless, you'll still make some money.
cheeba		How much?
delacroix		First things first.  I have to know if Manray is up for this.
manray		What do I have to do?
delacroix		Some tap dancing, some singing.
manray		Where do I sign?
cheeba		What kind of show is this gonna be?
delacroix		Different.
manray		How different?
delacroix		Trust me.  Of course I still have to pitch it to my boss, but we'll have an answer one way or the other.
manray		DeLa, I'm aboard.  As long as I get to hoof and get paid too!!!
delacroix		That's right.  Money turns the wheel.
cheeba		What about in the mean time?  Not the in between time?
delacroix		You'll both get an advance and you can stay with me.
manray		Bet.
delacroix		I would like to change your name.
manray		To what?
delacroix		You're now Mantan.
manray		Mantan?  I don't even care as long as I'm dancing.  Which reminds me, I need some new kicks.
manray		I never had a really real pair before.
sloan		You've never had any formal training, either?
manray		Not a class, not a thing, just picked stuff up by myself.
sloan		I wish I had your natural talent. God only makes that visit once in a while.
manray		You sing and dance?
sloan		A little.  I just graduated from NYU film school.  Cinema studies.
manray		So what's up with you and DeLa?
sloan		What do you mean?
manray		Are you and him kicking it? Knocking boots. Y'knowwhatI'mtalkin'bout.
sloan		No, we're not knocking boots.  I got this internship while I still was at NYU, DeLa was impressed with my get up and go and hired me to be his assistant.
manray		I'm sure that was the only thing he was impressed with.  You look beautiful like that.
sloan		If that was suppose to be a compliment, I thank you.
manray		You're welcome.  You shouldn't give up on performing.
sloan		Why do you say that?  You've never seen me.
manray		I think that would probably make you the happiest.  When I'm hoofing, I mean really doing my thing, hitting it, nothing compares to that feeling in the world.
sloan		I envy you.  That's the way I want to feel about my work.
big black		Li'l Sister.
sloan		You idiot.  You almost gave me a massive coronary.
big black		I didn't mean to scare you like that.
sloan		Well you did.
big black		Give me some?
sloan		I'm not huggin' you in the middle of the street.  You must be crazy, Julius.
big black		Whoa, hold up li'l sis'.  I done told you 'bout that.  Julius ain't my name, you better recognize Hopkins was our slave name.  My true name is...
sloan		I'm not callin you Big Black Africa. Mommy and Daddy named you Julius.
big black		BIG BLACK is the first name and AFRICA is the last.
big black		Damn, Sis, you don't keep no food up in here in dis' piece.
sloan		I order out mostly.  So what do I owe this visit to?
big black		My group we need some exposure. Was wondering if you could hook a brother up?
sloan		Hook you up?  The Mau-Mau's?  You must be smoking.  Why in the world would I want to hook up a bunch of red, black and green flag-waving pseudo revolutionairies?
big black		So now I see where you're coming from.  Just because we ain't rapping about Gucci, Timberland, Rolex, Benz, Cristal, ho's and bitches, we're pseudo.
sloan		Who are you revolting against?
big black		We're revolting against the powers that be, that been enslaving the minds and hearts of all people of color.  And we won't stop rapping till we bring about the overthrow of the government of the U.S. of A.
sloan		Please.
big black		If you were really down you would get us together with that boss of yours.  What's his name again?
sloan		Delacroix.
big black		Yeah, him.
sloan		What makes you think he would write a show about the Mau-Mau's.
big black		C'mon, why not?  The Monkees had a show.  Look at all that other junk that's on TV.  We got underground cult following.
sloan		You don't have the demographics.
big black		So are you telling me that you wouldn't even introduce me to Delacroix or set up a meeting?  I'm talking 'bout me, your only brother, ya own flesh and blood, hook a brother up, youknowwhatI'msayin'.
sloan		That'swhatI'msayin'.  I'm not blowin' my young career, brother or no brother, for you or anybody else.
big black		There is a name, a term for your kind, the likes of you.  Back in slavery days, you would be classified as a house nigga.
sloan		If you think I'm a house nigga then that's your prerogative.  You got your ways to affect change, I have mine.  And I would appreciate it very much if you took ya field nigga ass out of my house.
big black		My own sister throwin' me out.  I hope to seeya later when you get ya mind right.  Don't bother letting me out.
sloan		That's mighty black of you.
dunwitty		Delacroix, I'm glad you got your mind right.
delacroix		It's right and tight.  Good morning, let me introduce you to everybody. You know my assistant, Sloan.
sloan		Hello.
delacroix		This is Cheeba.
cheeba		Nice to meet you.
delacroix		And this is Manray.
manray		How do you do?
dunwitty		Good.  I like the names.  Very theatrical.
delacroix		We're all happy to be here and I'm going to paint a picture for you.
dunwitty		I'm wid it.
delacroix		I've done a lot of soul searching and once again you are right.  In my previous work it's been all surface, superficial.  I have never really dug deep.  Not anymore.  As Mark Twain fully understood satire is the way.  Race has always been a hot button in this country's history and it needs to be pushed harder.  If we are ever to live side by side in peace and harmony. It's about promoting racial healing.
dunwitty		Go on.  Good so far.
delacroix		I know you're familiar with minstrel shows.  They came about at the turn of the 19th century.  It was a variety show in which the talent was in blackface - singing, dancing, telling jokes, doing skits. Dunwitty, I ask you when was the last time there was a good variety show on the air.  Carol Burnett? HeeHaw?
dunwitty		Word!!!
delacroix		So let's take this great form, this very American tradition of entertainment into the 21st century, into the new millennium.
dunwitty		The name of the show?
delacroix		It is called: MANTAN - THE NEW MILLENNIUM MINSTREL SHOW.
dunwitty		I'm lovin' it.  You know how I know? Because I'm getting a boner, my Johnson is hard, no disrespect my sister.
delacroix		It will take a lot of courage and backbone on the part of the CNS to get this on the air.  In fact, I would understand fully if the subject matter is deemed too risque, too controversial.
dunwitty		Don't worry about that, that's my department.  Now who do we cast? We need a star.  Can Whoopi sing or dance?
delacroix		I don't know if Whoopi is the way to go.
dunwitty		Are these our two stars, sitting here in front of my nose?  Which one is Mantan again?
mantan		That's me.
delacroix		And Cheeba is Sleep 'n' Eat.
dunwitty		That's a great handle.
delacroix		Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat.  Two real coons.  I know we're way out there but it's satire.
dunwitty		I want you take it there.  All the way to the edge and back.
delacroix		Every week we follow the trials and tribulations of two real coons - Mantan and Sleep 'n Eat.  The Dusky Duo.
dunwitty		What are there character traits?
delacroix		Ignorant, dullwitted, lazy, and unlucky.
dunwitty		Exactly!
delacroix		Mantan is an uneducated Negro who always by some stroke of unbelievable stupidity makes his best laid plans go haywire.
dunwitty		And Sleep 'n Eat is his comical sidekick?
delacroix		Yep, you guessed it.
dunwitty		This could be bigger than "Amos and Andy."
delacroix		Protest finally forced "Amos and Andy" off the air.  Could stop us from ever getting on.
dunwitty		Let'em try.  I will kill to make this happen.
delacroix		Negroes would be in an uproar.
dunwitty		So what.  We would just give the NAACP a donation that would be the end of that.  No such thing as bad publicity.  So what.  Earlier you said singing and dancing.
delacroix		Mantan right here is a gifted hoofer.  He has educated feet.
dunwitty		Who are the other characters?
delacroix		Do we have characters?  How about Honeycutt, Snowflake, Rastus, Nigger, Jim, Sambo, Jungle Bunny, and how could we forget Aunt Jemima.
dunwitty		We gonna hit 'em wid da BOMB DICKEY on dis' one.  What's the setting?
delacroix		In the projects.  Like Eddie Murphy's "The PJ's."
dunwitty		Ya first bad move.  Projects been done.  That's one of the problems now, everything, movies, TV, are set in the urban jungle, da hood. That's so tired.  Mantan's Millennium Minstrel Show should be set on a plantation.  In Alabama. 
delacroix		I don't know about that plantation angle.
dunwitty		What are you talkin' 'bout?  It's the move.  Stay wid me now.  We're movin' fast.  What does everybody else think about this?
sloan		We'd get a lot of mail.
cheeba		I've always wanted to be on television.
dunwitty		I like you.  Sleep 'n Eat.  That's funny.  Mantan, how do you feel about performing in black face?
mantan		As long as the hoofing is real, that I can do my thing, I can blacken up.  Let me hit it, beats and rhythms, express myself.
dunwitty		Show me a little somethin' somethin'.
mantan		I'm gonna give you just a taste. My tap shoes are brand new.  I haven't trained 'em yet.
dunwitty		That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout. That'swhatI'mtalkin''bout!  He's off the hiz-hook!
delacroix		We think so.
dunwitty		Sleep 'n Eat, what do you do?
cheeba		I play the straight man.  I do some singing and dancing also.  I also manage Mantan.
dunwitty		Oh you do so?
cheeba		I'm the man behind the man behind the man.
dunwitty		You da man.
cheeba		No, you da man.
dunwitty		I'm gonna run upstairs with this. If CNS doesn't want to do this, somebody else will have da balls to pull the trigger.  I want to thank each and every one of you.  This is great, Delacroix.  I'll get back to you later today.
cheeba		Life is beginning to look up.  It's all good in da neighborhood.
mantan		You might be right.
cheeba		Why are you smiling so?
mantan		I'm not smiling.
cheeba		Naw, not you.  It can't be.  That hottie Sloan Hopkins.
mantan		It's that bad, huh?  It's all over my face.
cheeba		No shame in ya game.  She got ya nostrils, ya chnoz is wide open. Sloan's what we certified ladies' men call low hanging fruit.
mantan		Certified ladies' man, huh?
cheeba		She's also moorish.
mantan		What's that?
cheeba		Moorish.  Ya get a little taste of dat booty, ya wanna get some MORE.
mantan		Seconds and thirds, too.
cheeba		Sloan is all 'dat.  I try her.  I'm a tri-sexual.
mantan		You'd try anything.  I got first dibs.  You get ya own stuff.
cheeba		Naw, just jokin'.  That's you. That's you.
delacroix		I want you to start using the name Mantan and not Manray if you don't mind.
manray		Why?
delacroix		You have to start getting into your character.
cheeba		At the risk of sounding ignorant...
cheeba		That ain't funny.
manray		DeLa, I don't know 'bout this.
delacroix		Gentlemen, the show, our show will be satirical.  You know what that is, don't you?  Trust me on this one.
cheeba		We might need some mo' money behind this.
delacroix		That can be done.
manray		Mantan?
delacroix		Mantan!!
big black		How 'bout...
double black		That's da bomb.
mo black		That's gonna give me some inspiration.
jo black		Gonna make me get my flow on.
big black		We should call dis da BLACK album.
smooth black		Yo, check it out.  We have never conformed to none of the white man's rules and regulations and later for that ole slave owner Webster.  Therefore I respectfully submit BIG BLACK that we from now on, hence forth and whatnot spell BLACK: B-L-A-K, not B-L-A-C-K.
hard black		I feel dat.
big black		B-L-A-K it is.
orchid		You must think I'm some kind of fool.
delacroix		It looks delicious.
orchid		You hear me talkin' to you.  The only time you come up here when something is wrong.
delacroix		C'mon, Mommy, don't start with that I'm an ungrateful son stuff.
orchid		I said no such thing.  All I said is that something must be wrong.
delacroix		Can't beat it with a hammer.  Well, since you asked, it looks like I may have a new show, a pilot being shot.
orchid		That's wonderful.  Isn't that what you always wanted, a show of your own?
delacroix		It was.  It is.  But this is a different kind of show.
orchid		If at first it's not what you want, just work that much harder, Peerless.
delacroix		Mommy, please don't call me that.
orchid		Son, Peerless is your name.  Now you might be one of these Hollywood types, change your name and all that but Peerless Dothan is on your birth certificate.
delacroix		I know what's on my birth certificate.  You heard from Daddy?
orchid		I guess he's still on the road. What kind of show is this?  Are they some Negroes in it without being buffoons?
delacroix		To answer your question, there are a lot of Negroes in it and what is your definition of buffoons?
orchid		Peerless, I didn't raise a buffoon. We have enough of those on television already.
delacroix		Please let me know when you hear from Daddy, get a number or something.
orchid		I will.  And good luck with your show.  I hope it's a huge success. You've worked very hard.  You deserve it.
sloan		You okay?
delacroix		I feel like somebody hit me upside da head with a sledgehammer.
cheeba		DeLa - what's the matter with you.
mantan		You ain't happy about the green light?
sloan		People show their happiness in a lot of different ways.
mantan		Well, homeboy, looks like he's at a funeral.
delacroix		I'm happy for all of us.  It's just we have a great responsibility now. The pressure is on.
mantan		Pressure?  DeLa, you don't know what the hell real pressure is. SHEEETT!!!  This is lightstuff. Now when you scramblin' out on the street in da January winter and the hawk is talkin' to you with NO money and NO prospects of money anytime soon, now that there is some pressure.
delacroix		I didn't mean it to sound like that.
mantan		That's the way it came out.  Let me ask you one question.  Have you ever been in want, in need your entire privileged life?
delacroix		Now I'm privileged?!  Why?  Because I didn't grow up on food stamps and welfare?  Because I didn't call home a cardboard box?  No, I never ever went to bed hungry and I'm proud of it, too.  Whoever told you that living in poverty earns you somekind of badge of honor flat out lied to you.
mantan		The point I'm trying to make is that this is a blessing.  It's going to be fun doing this show and we should all look at it that way.
cheeba		What's wrong with him?
mantan		Must be the pressure.
jessica		Sorry I'm late.
sloan		Hey, girl.  This is my best friend, Jessica Grillo.  I invited her down to celebrate with us.
cheeba		I'm Cheeba.
mantan		I'm Mantan.
cheeba		Please, have a seat.
mantan		Sloan never told us she had friends like you.
cheeba		In fact, we never knew she had any friends period.
sloan		Later for you.
jessica		She has a lot of friends
cheeba		Male?
jessica		Yes.
mantan		A lot?
sloan		Enough.
jessica		I propose a toast.
sloan		Excuse me.
sloan		What is your problem?
delacroix		My problem is MANTAN THE NEW MILLENIUM MINSTREL SHOW.
sloan		Why did you even come up with that shit if you didn't want it made?
delacroix		It was the principle.  Dunwitty had to be enlightened.  I was making a point.  I take pride in my work. Plus, I already told you I wasn't gonna walk away from my money.
sloan		Fuck da money.  Why do through all this effort?  Why?  Are you looking for love from Dunwitty?  For respect?  Dunwitty and his likes don't give a goddamn about you.  So now what are you gonna do?
sloan		You're gonna have to hold it in because we're not finished yet...
delacroix		Even if money wasn't an issue, Dunwitty will still go ahead without me and that could be more dangerous.
sloan		What's the chances of MANTAN being picked up?
delacroix		I wouldn't bet against it.  My Negroidal ass is stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place.
sloan		Like I said, all this for some twisted, distorted sense of principal.  Dunwitty, he just tolerates your Negroidal ass, he doesn't respect it.
delacroix		I strongly feel that a Negro should direct this.  This kind of satire is a high wire act in a gale storm. One misstep and we're doing "Amos and Andy."  Only a Negro will have the sensitivity and cultural awareness to navigate this dangerous terrain.
dunwitty		To hire someone solely on their ethnicity, gender or religion is not right.  It's un-American.  I will hire someone who is most qualified for this particular job.
delacroix		I was hoping to perhaps direct some episodes myself, if not the pilot soon after.
dunwitty		I want a hot, young white director. Maybe the kid, that pheenom who just did that hot new sexy Madonna video.
delacroix		You're telling me some white boy is gonna direct this pilot?
dunwitty		I just want you to meet him.  Keep an open mind.
delacroix		Besides, what does he know about Negroes?
dunwitty		Probably nuthin', but that's why it's such a sexy way to go. Sometimes an outsider has a fresh new outlook, a different unique perspective.  A black director, y'know what he's gonna do given the subject matter?  With this kid, the possibilities are endless.
delacroix		What are his qualifications besides being a white male and directing a hot new sexy freaky Madonna video?
dunwitty		If Spielburg can direct "The Color Purple" and "Amistad", our whiz kid can direct the Mantan pilot.
delacroix		That's exactly my point.  Has he even directed actors before in anything?
dunwitty		No!!!  Just meet the guy.  That's all I'm asking.  Look, I'll even let you choose your own musical director.  You can have that.
delacroix		In the immortal words of Derrick Coleman, WHOOOPDEEDAMNDOO!!!
dunwitty		Derrick Coleman, he possessed all the talent in the world, coulda, shoulda, been a great ballplayer but alas D.C. didn't want it bad enough.  Delacroix, do you want it? Bad enough to kill for it?  Do you want it that much.
delacroix		Good morning, for those of you who don't know me, I'm Pierre Delacroix. I'm running things and this here is my assistant Sloan Hopkins.
sloan		Hello.
delacroix		I've never worked with any of you and you've never worked with me so we'll be starting from scratch. I'm a fair person, a straight shooter and I don't hold my tongue. Everybody up in here should know I had nothing to do with you being hired. 
mona		He, I'm Mona.
delacroix		Hi, Mona.
mona		I perfectly understand where you're coming from.  As a minority I can relate to your struggle also.  But I think you should give us all a chance.  We want this pilot to be successful just as much as you. Please don't be so quick to judge us based only on our whiteness.
delacroix		Oh, is that what I'm doing?
beth		I think because of our background we can bring a unique perspective to Mantan.
seth		A fresh pair of eyes.  A new look, insight, new angle that hasn't been seen before.
delacroix		I've heard this somewhere before.
david		My name is David.  I do think it would be better to have some African-American writers but for whatever reason they are not here. I don't know if they couldn't find any people with experience, they wouldn't work for the pay or refused to work for the show.  I don't know and nobody in this room probably knows either.  I'm looking at this as a unique opportunity. We all should.  I'm a damn good writer and I'm ready to go to work.
mona		I've always liked the format of Rowan and Martin's "LAUGH-IN."
anna		That could be cool.
kirk		What about something like "The Jeffersons?"  I grew up in Idaho so that's how I got my understanding of black people.  Through Sherman Helmsley, LOUISSEE!!!.
david		"Good Times" was better.  Kid Dy-no mite!!!
aaron		You pole are going to far back for me.  I think we have to go after a hipper feel.  Like the stuff Eddie Murphy used to do on "Saturday Night Live."
peter		Or Martin.  You go girl.
jeff		What about the  black exploitation films?  No one has ever tried making that work on TV.
david		And for reason.  Have you ever seen "Scream Blacula, Scream?"
mona		I think, and Delacroix will agree with me, the politics of this show have to be right.  We should always be laughing with our characters, not at them.
lulu		But I had several more poems.
delacroix		That's good.  We've seen enough. We'll get back to you.
sloan		This is the group I was telling you about.
delacroix		Which one is your brother?
sloan		The big one.
ruth		Let's get started here.
big black		The Mau-Mau's are up in dis place. That's right, the Mau-Mau's.
big black		My righteous name is BIG BLACK.
big black		We gonna drop some knowledge, wisdom and understanding.  The Mau- Mau's, we be scientists.  We drop science.
delacroix		We're ready when you are.
big black		Microphone check.  One.  Two.  One. Two.  One.  Two.  Hold up.  I gots to give my peeps some props. Brothers introduce yourself.
double black		Yo, I'm Double Black.
black black		Check it, Black Black.
smooth black		I'm Smooth Black, the lover in dis' piece.
hard black		Hard Black.
mo black		He's Jo Black.
jo black		And he's Mo Black.
delacroix		Good.  We're really blacked-oops, backed up, so shall we begin?
big black		Microphone check.  One.  Two.  One. Two.  Yo, the name of this joint is BLAK IZ BLAK.  Hit it.
dunwitty		Delacroix.  This is the director I was telling you about.  Jukka Laks.
jukka		So nice to meet you.
delacroix		Nice to meet you.  If you don't mind me asking you - how old are you?
jukka		I just turned twenty.
dunwitty		I'm gonna leave you two creative geniuses alone.
delacroix		Dunwitty, don't leave.
jukka		Helsinki, which is the capital of Finland.
delacroix		Finland.
jukka		You know, Finlandia vodka?  Yes?
delacroix		Yes, I know.  Jukka, have you ever seen a Negro person before?  Even had a real conversation with a real Negro before?
jukka		What's a Negro.
delacroix		A fiasco.  A disaster.  A boondoggle. An abomination.
delacroix		Did you just ask me what's a Negro? I'M A NEGRO!!!
jukka		Ahhh!!!  I never heard of that term before.  I thought you were BLACK of African-American.  No?
delacroix		Well before there was BLACK or AFRICAN AMERICAN, there were NEGROES.  I'M A NEGRO.
jukka		Thank you for correcting my ignorance.  I'm looking forward to working side by side with you.  I feel we make a good team.
delacroix		How did you get this gig?
jukka		My visual style is very erotic, sexy, how do you say - hot?
delacroix		This is a TV show, not a music video.
jukka		Then will you teach me what I need to know.  Maybe we learn from each other, if that's possible, no?
delacroix		This is a travesty.  A debacle.
sloan		You've said that already.
delacroix		I'm gonna slit my wrists.  Cut my throat.  For the love of Joseph.
delacroix		For the love of Joseph and Mary.
delacroix		I will not be held responsible for these revisions.  These changes are not the way I want to go.  This is an outrage.  This is a sham.  A violation!
dunwitty		Calm down, please.
jukka		In Finland, when we get upset...
delacroix		I don't give a good goddamn about Finland, Norway, Sweden or wherever ya blond ass came from.
dunwitty		We just punched it up a bit.  Made it funnier.
delacroix		Funnier to who and at who's expense? Dunwitty, when Negroes start to run amok, the boycotts, when the demostrations commence, I'm giving them your home address.  Let's see how you like it when they picket your lawn in Greenwich, Connecticut.
dunwitty		I seriously doubt that will ever happen.  Didn't I tell you I know your people better than you do. But if by some miracle you're correct, I'm gonna invite them inside my house and we'll have a sit down, discuss it like civil human beings.
delacroix		Just want to say good luck.
sloan		Break a leg.
delacroix		Wait a minute.  Hold up.
mantan		Naw.  I'll take the zero.
delacroix		You feel good, not nervous?
mantan		I feel fine.
delacroix		Not nervous?  Relaxed?
mantan		Sloan, will you take your boss out of here so I can get ready.
delacroix		Fired up.
sloan		How you feelin'?
delacroix		The material is fine.
delacroix		We're trying to do something new here, some groundbreaking stuff.
sloan		Everything's gonna be alright.  You and Mantan will be huge stars after tonight.
delacroix		Your life will never be the same.
sloan		Let's leave the man in peace so he can get ready.
sloan		We both lied to him.
delacroix		What do you want me to say?
sloan		Just don't lie to me.
delacroix		Good luck, Jukka.  Do a good show.
jukka		Thank you very much.  I always try my best.
dunwitty		I want you to meet my lovely wife Verna.  Honey, this is Pierre Delacroix and Sloan Hopkins.
verna		Nice to meet you.
delacroix		Same here.
sloan		The pleasure is mine.
verna		My husband has been raving about the awesome work you've done.  How did you ever think of something like this?  It's absolutely brilliant.  Pure genius.
delacroix		I guess it was divine inspiration.
verna		Hope to see you both after the taping.  Congrats in advance.
sloan		Divine inspiration?
delacroix		I was trying to be nice.
sloan		I want to apologize about my brother and the Mau-Mau's.  I should not have imposed them on you.
delacroix		C'mon.  You were only doing what family is supposed to be doing for family.  You gave your brother a shot.  That's all anybody can ask for, an opportunity, a chance, a shot.  He got his.
mantan		...TIME!!!
mantan		This is my best friend Sleep 'N Eat.
both		We're two real COONS!
mantan		We both left the hustle and bustle of Uptown, Harlem...
mantan		To come back to our roots.
mantan		No mo' "city slickers."  Ahh, can't you smell the sweet aroma of the ripe watermelons and high cotton?
mantan		Well, thank you Mistuh Sleep 'N Eat.
mantan		Cousins, I want all of you to go to your windows.  Go to your windows and yell.  Yell, I'm tired of the drugs, the crack babies born out of wedlock to crackhead aids infested parents.  I'm tired of the inflated welfare rolls while good wholesome Americans bring less and less of their paycheck home every two weeks. I'm tired, you're tired, we're all tired of these so-called bible- thumping God fearing, whore mongling Professional athletes.  Aren't you tired of these basketball-dunking, football-running, hop-hip rapping ebonic-speaking sex offenders who got ten kids from ten different Ho's?  I know I am and so is Sleep 'N Eat.
mantan		Go to your windows and yell out, scream with all the life you can muster up inside your assaulted, bruised and battered bodies.  I'M SICK AND TIRED OF NIGGERS AND I'M NOT GONNA TAKE IT ANYMORE!
delacroix		Hello?
dunwitty		Yo, DeLa, I just got the news from the CNS brass.  They saw some clips from the pilot and they're rushing it onto the air.  Yo, we're a midseason replacement, ordered 12 shows.  We're on in 3 weeks.  Didya hear what I just said, Yo?
delacroix		This has to be a big mistake.
delacroix		Hold on a sec, I got a call.
dunwitty		I want to meet her one day, please tell her the great news.  I'm OUT like Vanilla Ice.
orchid		Peerless, your father called.
delacroix		I'll be right over.
mantan		So what's up with you?
sloan		What do you want to know?
mantan		The good stuff.
sloan		I'm an asthmatic.  Been one all my life.  Can't go anywhere without an inhaler.
mantan		What else?
sloan		Are you trying to rap to me?
orchid		He wants you to come and see him.
delacroix		He said that?
orchid		Yes he did.
delacroix		Where is he?
orchid		He's performing at some place outside of Richmond, Virginia.
delacroix		I can't go all the way down south.
orchid		Richmond is not all the way down south.
delacroix		I don't even know why you're still concerned over him.  Daddy's not with you.
orchid		Regardless, he still is your father.
delacroix		It's gonna be hard for me to get away with the show taking off.
orchid		Even more reason to see him.  He'll be overjoyed with your success.
delacroix		C'mon, Mommy.  Daddy hasn't been impressed with anything I've ever done.  From winning my fifth grade Spelling Bee to the present.
orchid		Peerless, last time, go see your father.
sloan		Are you trying to seduce me?
delacroix		I figured this was a good time to get away.  Just jump in my ride and go.  I always did my best thinking when I was driving alone.  I needed to think out clearly what I was going to do with this MANTAN - THE NEW MILLENNIUM MINSTREL SHOW.
junebug		'Cuse me.  Please.  Can you please show me some respect.  I'm up here trying to make a living.
man		Mind yo' business.
junebug		Don't make me have to come over there and whoop you upside ya head.
delacroix		Brother man, that's my father up there and I drove a long way to see him perform.  Please take this fifty, go buy you and the young lady some drinks in the club.
man		That's yo' Daddy?
junebug		Don't bring your woman out if you can't keep her in deep check.  If my woman ever did something crazy like that I'd put my size 12 dead up in her ass.
delacroix		I want to speak with you.
delacroix		It's me, Peerless.
junebug		Son.  Good to seeya.  Good to seeya.
delacroix		It's been a long time.
junebug		Pull up a chair.  Oh, excuse me, this is my lady DOT.
delacroix		Pleased to meet you.
dot		Glad to meet you, too.  You are all your father talks about.
delacroix		Is that so?
junebug		Honey, pour me and my son a drink.
dot		I'll leave you two alone.
junebug		Good woman.  I trained her right.
delacroix		Daddy, she's younger than me.
junebug		My game is still strong.  No Viagra for me, don't need no chemicals. Just my tonic.
delacroix		I thought you had promised Mommy you stopped.
junebug		I did.  I'm not an alcoholic.  I just like to drink.
delacroix		How did you end up here?
junebug		How did I end up at the third rate chittlin' circuit greasy hole in the wall in West Hell, Virginny? Is that what you're asking ya Daddy?
delacroix		That's what I'm askin'.
junebug		Because I had too much pride.  Too much integrity.  I wouldn't lick nobody's butt.  Some material I refused to do.
delacroix		Daddy, it can't be just because of that.  There had to be other factors.
junebug		That's the only reason, period. They only want one certain kind of black comic.
delacroix		Another one of your conspiracies to hold ya career back?
junebug		All I know is what happened to me. All that other mess I just file into the "life's too short" category.
delacroix		The same old, same old.  Trying to get my stuff through.
junebug		Dem white boys giving you a hard time?
delacroix		Nuthin' I can't handle.
junebug		The truth is never let them seeya sweat.  You do that, that's half the battle.
delacroix		Where do you go from here?
junebug		Three nights Charleston, South Carolina.
delacroix		I didn't mean that, in life.
junebug		In life?  I'ma keep on living, having a good drink, got me a good young woman, make a couple of dollars and make people laugh. Haven't I always tol' you all nigga's are entertainers?  The question is what are you gonna do, Peerless?
junebug		I'm not an alcoholic.  I just like to drink.
dot		We know that baby.
delacroix		Let's get him over to the bed.
junebug		Baby, you treat me so good. Peerless, you're a good son, I love you.  You never gave me no trouble.
delacroix		I love you too, Daddy.
junebug		Always keep 'em laughing.
delacroix		How long has my father been like this?
dot		Not that often.  He was excited to see you.
delacroix		So he drank himself into a stuper?
dot		The drinking is for the pain.  It doesn't kill it, just dulls it.
delacroix		So what's up with you?
dot		I was a hostess at this club, your Daddy was performing and I had never laughed so hard in my life. He asked me to come with him.  I quit my job and we've been together ever since.
delacroix		Don't tell him it's from me or he won't take it.
dot		Your father is proud of you.
delacroix		He never showed it.
dot		He did the best way he knew how, Junebug is stubborn just like you.
honeycutt		Everybody say Ho!
audience		Ho!
honeycutt		That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout! That'swhatI'mtalkin'bout!  I want to be the first to welcome you to the second taping of Mantan - The New Millennium Minstrel Show.
audience		Yeah!
honeycutt		I'm gonna start a chant and I want y'all to follow me.  Let's make our own 2 real coons know you're ready to start the show.
audience		YEAH!
honeycutt		Alright.  Here we go.  Let's go NIGGERS!  LET'S GO NIGGERS!
audience		Let's go NIGGERS.
honeycutt		Louder.  They can't hear you.
honeycutt		You sound so good to me.  Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, without further adieu, let's welcome youknowwhoI'mtalkin'about, your two favorite coons, Da Dusky Duo, our stars Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat.
mantan		Y'know my lady Lucindy?
mantan		Not her, the one with the little...
mantan		Tomorrow is her birthday and I want to get her something really nice, like a...
mantan		She hates dem.
mantan		Sleep 'N Eat, one of dem slinky, sexy, little foxy...
mantan		...to big.  The in-between one, not too tight, not too lose.
mantan		I thought you got rid of...
mantan		...dat's too much money.  I can't 'ford it.  I needs me a dress that cost no mo' than...
mantan		I'll buy her a less expensive dress, so I can have some money left over to take her out to dinner.
mantan		I heard ya lady is wild.
mantan		Oh, because on our first date, she let me...
mantan		...yes she did.
mantan		...not that time...
mantan		Around...
mantan		...then what about...
mantan		...perfect...
mantan		...like macaroni and cheese...
mantan		...like fried and chicken...
mantan		It's dat mean, evil overseer Massa Charlie.
massa charlie		I say who goes in there?
both		There's nobody in here 'cept us chickens.
delacroix		Who's side are you on?
sloan		I'm sorry, I can't help it.  It's too funny.
sloan		Everybody shut up.
mantan		Why they gotta make my nose so big?
cheeba		Look at my lips.
jessica		I think it looks cute.
honeycutt		DA BOMB.  Yo.  It's 125% pure pleasure MALT LIQUOR.
honeycutt		DA BOMB - 125% pure pleasure malt liquor.
timmy hillnigger		Yo, my name be Timmi Hillnigger.  I was born and raised up in Strong Island so you know I know about my peeps, my niggaz in the git-toe.  I design and own TIMMI HILLNIGGER 125% Authentic Git-Toe active wear.
timmy hillnigger		If you want to keep it really real, never get out of the git-toe, stay broke and continue to add to my multibillion dollar corporation, keep buyin' all my gear.  The Timmi Hillnigger collection.  We keep it so real we give you the bullet holes.
reporter		Did you watch MANTAN - THE NEW MILLENNIUM MINSTREL SHOW last night?
president clinton		Yes I did and I can honestly say I feel it promotes racial healing.
dunwitty		I know all of you have seen the overnight ratings.  Through the roof.  But in this game you gotta be one, two, three steps ahead.  I introduce you to Myrna Goldfarb. She's the best media consultant in the biz.
myrna		First, I would like to say I love the show.  It's very courageous. My parents marched in Selma, Alabama with Dr. King.
delacroix		Why are you here?
myrna		Good question, straight to the point.  I like your style.  Because of the content of the show we can expect some spirited reactions.
dunwitty		Myrna is here to help us plan our strategy.
myrna		The best defense is offense.
delacroix		I thought it was the other way around.
myrna		You get my point.  I've mapped out some strategies to help bolster our position.
sloan		Which is?
myrna		That this is fun.  Nice wholesome fun.
dunwitty		Goldfarb, run it down for them.
myrna		The Mantan Manifesto.  Catchy ain't it?  Number One.  We gainfully employ African Americans, in front of and behind the cameras.  Two. Let the audience decide.  Three. Who put these critics in charge? These so-called cultural police? Four.  Who determines what is black? Five.  Mantan is a satire.  Six. If they can't take a joke, "F" 'em.
dunwitty		We all stick to this, it's smooth sailing.
sloan		It sounds kinda simplistic to me.
myrna		I've done my research.
delacroix		These are black folks we're talkin' about, not some lab mice in a cage.
myrna		Monsieur Delacroix, I got my PhD in African-American studies from Yale, so I do feel I'm qualified.
dunwitty		Let Myrna finish.
myrna		Thank you.  And always smile.
delacroix		Yeah, show dem pearly whites.
myrna		Wear Kente cloth, invoke the name of Dr. Martin Luther King, use the word "community" often when talking about Mantan.  And finally our biggest plus is you, Pierre Delacroix.
delacroix		Me?
dunwitty		Yes you!
myrna		This show was created, conceived by you, a non-threatening African- American male.  Voila.  End of argument.  It can't be racist because you're black.
delacroix		I'm not black.  I'm a NEGRO!!!
sloan		So you have your small victory, now what?
delacroix		A small victory isn't that small when you've been use to losing.
delacroix		What is this?
sloan		A gift.
delacroix		For what?
sloan		No matter what you think, you did come up with something unique. Open it.
delacroix		The Jolly Nigger Bank.
sloan		This is authentic, not a repro, circa turn of the century.
delacroix		Thanks.
sloan		I thought it was appropiate.
delacroix		Is that good or bad?
sloan		It's all good.  You got a hit show, you're gonna need a bank.  Plus, I love these old black collectibles.
delacroix		How so?
sloan		To me, it shows part of our history in this country, a time when we were considered inferior, sub-human.
gary byrd		Our guest today is Pierre Delacroix. He is the creator of the highly controversial TV show MANTAN. Let's get right into it.  You have been called by some in the community a traitor, a sellout, an Uncle Tom. Why does your show generate such feelings?
delacroix		Because race has always been a sensitive issue in this country. Gary, I have no problem with people disagreeing with the show, it's when folks start trying to mess with my inherent right as an artist, that's when I get mad.  No one, in any way, shape or form should be censored.
gary byrd		No matter how sexist or racist the material may be?
delacroix		Yes.  And I say yes because who is to judge?  Who is to stand before us and say this is righteous and this is not?  Who?  Who can play God?
gary byrd		But the line has to be drawn.
delacroix		Don't you people get it?  We're in the 21st Century.  Slavery was over four hundred years ago.  All that stuff people talked in the old days, it's over.  Folks always crying, white man this, white man that.  Let's all grow up.
gary byrd		Are you trying to excuse our Holocaust?
delacroix		Can I finish?  Thank you.  I had a great Aunt, we called her Sister. She went to her grave not believing man had walked on the Moon. 
big black		Keep trying.
mantan		Why is Jess and Reverend Al down there?
delacroix		So they can be on TV.
mantan		You sound like the media.
delacroix		This is nothing.  It will blow over by tomorrow.
mantan		Same thing Giuliani said.
delacroix		Tomorrow it will be all about cruelty to animals or some sex scandal.  Besides, there is no such thing as bad publicity.
mantan		Hope the same thing doesn't happen to me.  That's some big shoes to fill.
delacroix		In time.
big black		That Tom, That Negro...
double black		...that handkerchief head...
black black		...dancing monkey...
big black		...that simpleton is holding back the race.  They got rid of us and keep those two buffoons, Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
hard black		Yo, Big Black, Sleep 'N Eat ain't even a nigger, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
smooth black		He's Mexican, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
mo black		He's Dominican, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
jo black		He's Peter Rican, y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
big black		Same thing, y'knowwhatI'msayin', y'knowwhatI'msayin'!
big black		1/16, tru' 'dat.  True 'dat.
double black		Let me gat him.
big black		Nah, too easy, this has to be symbolic, has to be on the world stage.
sloan		This is a nice place.  It must have cost a pretty penny.
mantan		Sloan, I got it like 'dat.
sloan		Oh you do, huh?
mantan		Just a little something' somethin'.
sloan		I hope you save a little somethin' somethin'.
mantan		Gots no intention of ending up broke.
sloan		Y'know, at the beginnin' of the century, African-American had to perform in blackface.  You ever heard of Bert Williams?  He was a great artist.
mantan		No, before my time.
sloan		You don't read, do you?
mantan		Never read a book in my whole life.
sloan		Maybe you need to start.
mantan		Maybe I need to do a lot of things.
sloan		Bert Williams and the rest, they had to black up.  They had no choice.  They were considered 3/5ths of a human being.  Did you know that's written in the Constitution of the United States?
mantan		Why all of a sudden are you flippin' on me?  This blackface thing was part of the deal from the git-go. Don't even try to play it like you ain't a part of all this.  You down with Delacroix.
sloan		I just don't want you and Cheeba to get hurt.
mantan		We can look out for ourselves.
honeycutt		Let's have a warm nigger applause for our two favorite coons, Mantan and Sleep 'N Eat.  TWO REAL COONS!
mantan		I fell out of my bed last night.
mantan		I slept too near where I fell out.
mantan		Sleep 'N Eat, what's the matter with you?  Using all dose ten dollar words?
mantan		Hold on, you allegorical hypothesis. Don't cross words with me.
mantan		Dat's yo Uncle Ben.  That reminds me, I've seen a lot of troubles lately.
mantan		I don't know who I am.
mantan		Years ago I married a widow who had a grown-up daughter.  My daddy visited us often, fell in love with my stepdaughter and married her. Thusly he became my son-in-law and my stepdaughter became my mother because she was my father's wife. Soon after dis my wife gave birth to a son, which of course was my father's brother in-law and my uncle, for he was the brother of my step-mother.  My father's wife also became the mother of a son.  He was of course my brother and also my grandchild for he was the son of my daughter.  Accordingly, my wife was my grandmother because she was my mother's mother. 
dunwitty		You couldn't hold out any longer, huh?
mantan		I feel a song a comin' on.
mantan		I fell right dead in love/wid da sweetest little dove/little LuLu Snow from Tennessee/she made a slave of me/an' from her I'se never free/I'd do anything she'd ask me to...
pikcaninninies		She's de cutest gal in all dis world I know/If you met her you would say it so/Oh, Lulu, Lulu, ev'ry day I pines for you/no other gal will do/All I've got is yours for life, my little, my little yaller Lou/A week ago dat Lou wid anudder nigger flew/took ma money too, all I had/She broke ma heart in two/when I heard dat she had flew/Do you wonder dat I feel so bad?/She told me not to cry 'case she didn't say good bye/but she'd take care of dat red/and nobody would get de cash away from her/She'd keep her word to me she said.
big black		He gots to be did.
alec baldwin		The winner for Best New Sitcom is... The envelope please...
delacroix		Alec Baldwin, this is the very first time we've ever met, you don't know this, I'm your biggest fan and I want you to have my Emmy. It's for you, out of the deep bowels of my heart - I don't deserve this.  You take it.
woody harrelson		The winner for Best Sit-Com is...
delacroix		I had it all planned.  To the T.
mantan		I'm tired of you pickaninnies messing up my choreography.  It goes like this.
cheeba		I'm not drinking the Kool-Aid.
mantan		What are you talkin' about?
cheeba		Jim Jones, y'know.  I'm not drinking the Kool-Aid.
mantan		Meaning?
cheeba		I'm out.
mantan		Good.  I've got a broken back from carrying you all these years anyway.
cheeba		So that's what you been doing?
mantan		Damn skippy.
cheeba		You're in this up till ya neck.
mantan		Don't shoot me, I'm just the piano players.
cheeba		You can walk away.  We both can.
mantan		Yeah, that's easy for you to do. You never had any talent.
cheeba		I'm so tired of you running that. I always worked hard for you.  You think I'm a leech, a kling-on, I quit.
mantan		I'm the star of Mantan, so you do that.  Quit, walk away.  And don't come crawling back, either.
sloan		Why don't you call him?
mantan		For what?  He left.  Not me.
sloan		You're sure this is a good idea.
mantan		My people love me.
sloan		I love you.
mantan		Y'know what?
sloan		What?
mantan		You look beautiful like that.
honeycutt		Thank you so very much.  Show me some love.
sloan		This doesn't change a thing.  I will still love him.
delacroix		Pull ya self together.
mantan		No.
delacroix		You getting scared because some people don't like what you are doing?
mantan		Yo, DeLa, they tried to lynch my black ass up in dat piece.
delacroix		You've made it from the guttermost to the uppermost.  Don't you know you should never let them see you sweat.  Y'knowwhatI'msayin'?
mantan		Yeah.
delacroix		And now is definitely not the time to bitch up.
tavis smiley		Our guest tonight is the extraordinary, talented performer, Mantan.  Thanks for coming in.
mantan		Tavis, thank you for having me.
tavis smiley		Before we begin, I want to thank you for coming on my show for your first television interview.  You could have chosen Mike Wallace, Barbara Walters, Jane Pauley, whatnot but you're here.
mantan		I'm more comfortable around my people.
tavis smiley		Let's jump right into it.  Your show has sparked a world of controversy, provoked a tone of dialogue.  How do you see all of this?
mantan		Yo, Tavis, check it out.  This is the two-one, the 21st century and it's all about the money.  Like my man Mase says, "it's all about the Benjamins."
tavis smiley		Money and nothing else?
mantan		Money makes the world go round.  It ain't no joke being poor.  I know whatI'mtalkin''bout. Y'knowwhatI'msayin'?  I've lived on the street.  I've been homeless. I've learned how to play the game, work the game, be in the game.
tavis smiley		Is it inevitable that the game plays you?
mantan		No if you go with the flow, Tavis. That's what a lot of Negroes don't understand.  Protesting isn't gonna do a damn thing.  If people don't like our satire in our number one hit show then don't watch it.  Or better yet write your own show.  Do it better.
tavis smiley		Don't you feel that is a simplistic retort?
mantan		I don't know what a retort is, but it's simple.  Mantan - The New Millennium Minstrel Show is UNIVERSAL.  It's not just for Negroes in Compton or 125th in Harlem.  This is America.  Our ancestors helped build this country, we got a right, just like everybody else.  I'm not gonna box myself in. This show makes people think, and they're laughing at the same time.
tavis smiley		I admit, that's a very hard thing to do.  Quickly let's go to the phones before we pay the bills and hear from our proud sponsors, DA BOMB.  125% PURE PLEASURE MALT LIQUOR.  IT MAKES YOU WANNA GET YA FREAK ON AND TIMMI HILLNIGGER. 125% AUTHENTIC GIT-TOE GEAR WHEN YOU WANT TO BE GIT-TOED FABULOUS. 
mantan		That's our opinion.
mantan		Why?  Because I'm successful? Because I don't use "Causcasoids" as an excuse for not fulfilling my dreams?
tavis smiley		And Big Black from Brooklyn, what do you do?
tavis smiley		What do you do?
mantan		That's a job?
tavis smiley		That's enough.
tavis smiley		Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to go there.  We can all agree to disagree without making threats.
delacroix		Why'd you do that?
sloan		I don't want to hear it.
delacroix		How long have you and Hambone been hangin' out?
sloan		You're the one that put us together. We're friends.
delacroix		That crazy brother of yours doesn't think so.
sloan		He's just playing big brother.
delacroix		Oh, is he?  You getting jiggy with Mantan?
sloan		Please don't go there.
delacroix		Dunwitty and I feel you've been getting too close to him, getting his mind all messed up.
sloan		I can't lie to him.  If he asks me something, I tell him what I think.
delacroix		Do you have to be so damn forthright?
sloan		DeLa, you should try it sometime. Come into the light.
delacroix		Light?
sloan		That which has been hidden in darkness is now in the light.  This bucket of blood.
delacroix		You can talk all that mumbo jumbo if you want to but your hands are much bloody.  I know where I made my big mistake.  I have a general rule, never get involved romantically with somebody crazier than you.
delacroix		This is crazy.
sloan		That's why it will be so much fun.
sloan		That was a mistake, but I don't regret it.
delacroix		The first and only time.  A big mistake.  I'm gonna have to ask you not to see Mantan anymore.
sloan		Work related or otherwise?
delacroix		Otherwise.  I trust you know the difference.  You're an intelligent woman, finished at NYU.
sloan		DeLa, kiss my big black ass.
delacroix		And that's how you got me in the first place.
sloan		I want you to please view this.  It may save your Life.
delacroix		You shouldn't even be mad at me over Sloan.
mantan		What you did is dead wrong.
delacroix		Oh, is it?  Buddy boy, in this business if people don't produce, they get fired.
mantan		Sloan is the hardest working person I've ever met.
delacroix		Let me ask you a question, if I may. How do you think she got the job in the first place?  I don't mean to burst your bubble, Mantan the Marvelous, but Sloan is an opportunity.
mantan		I don't believe it.
delacroix		Do I have to spell it out for you? In fact, go ask Sloan yourself.
mantan		How did you get this gig?
sloan		Worked my black ass off, first as an intern, then worked my way up to this position.
mantan		You leave something out?
sloan		After my internship expired, Dela was impressed and offered me a position as his assistant.
mantan		And?
sloan		And what?
mantan		Stop playing me Sloan.
sloan		Just ask me what you want to know.
mantan		Oh, you gonna make me say it.
sloan		Say what, Manray?
mantan		Did you ever sleep with DeLa?
sloan		We did it one time, only once.  It had nothing to do with the job, it was stupid.  Everything I've got I've earned.
mantan		Aw, c'mon.
sloan		That's ancient history.  That has nothing to do with you and I.
mantan		So you say.  Sloan, you wuz gonna use me up just like you used Dela? Work it to the top.  I never imagined people in this biz could flip on you like "IHOP."  I'm damn happy DeLa fired ya ass.
sloan		Forget about me, are you a puppet for DeLa?
mantan		Don't try to change to the subject.
sloan		Why don't you answer?
mantan		I know I won't be your puppet.
sloan		You can go now.
mantan		I wuz leaving anyway, for good.
delacroix		Hello, Mommy, how are you?
delacroix		You going to attack me too.  The show is a hit.  Aren't you happy for me?
orchid		Of course I'm happy for you. You've worked very hard for your success.
orchid		No.
delacroix		Not at all?
delacroix		If and when he calls, please don't forget to ask him if he's seen Mantan.
delacroix		Soon.
honeycutt		Is you a nigga?
bobby		Hell yeah, I'm a nigga.
honeycutt		Ma'am, is you a nigga?
louise		Yesiree Bob, you darn tootin' I'm a nigger.
honeycutt		Are you a nigger?
tre		Yo!
honeycutt		Are you a nigga?
stacy		Honeycutt, I'm a really real niggress.
honeycutt		You.  You.  Him.  Her.  We're all God's niggas.  Even the lost souls who don't know it are niggas cuz niggas is a beautiful thing.
mantan		They don't waste any time, do they?
delacroix		Delacroix.  What?!  I'll be right down.
bunning		You better talk to him.  He won't listen to me.
delacroix		Mantan, we got a show to tape.
mantan		My name is Manray, goddamnit.
delacroix		Kook and the Gang, it's Manray. Let's do the taping.  You go back to your dressing room, get dressed and blacken up.
manray		I'm not playin' myself no mo'.
delacroix		How you sound?
manray		I won't do it anymore.
delacroix		Manray, I'm very sorry about ya boy Cheeba and Sloan.  Believe me, it gave me no joy pulling ya coattail about her, just lookin' out for a brother.  I feel you, all this stuff happenin' at once but you can't let if affect your work.  You gotta be professional.
manray		I'm always gonna be that.  But I ain't doing no more buck dancing.
delacroix		No costume.  No blackface.
manray		No.  No.
bunning		I should notify Dunwitty.
delacroix		And I should put my foot dead up in yo' ass.
bunning		I won't be held responsible.
honeycutt		We apologize for the holdup but without further delay, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, let's give it up for Mantan.
dunwitty		Stop the tape.  Stop the tape. Delacroix.  Get me Delacroix.
manray		Cousins, I want all of you to go to your windows.  Go to your windows and yell, scream with all the life you can muster up inside your assaulted, bruised amd battered bodies.
manray		I'm sick and tired of being a nigger and I'm not gonna take it anymore.
dunwitty		Drop the curtain.  Drop the curtain.
manray		I wasn't finished doing my dance.
dunwitty		But you are finished.  Done. Nigga's like you are a dime a dozen. I'm gonna slide Honeycutt right into ya spot.  We won't miss a step. Get him outta here.
manray		Whaddup?
big black		You truly are a dancing fool.
manray		Don't start none, won't be none.
big black		You is one dead nigger.
manray		What did I do?
big black		What did you do?
double black		If you don't know there is nuthin' we can do for you.
big black		Nigga, you will be executed.
manray		For singing and dancing?
mo black		The whole world will be watching.
jo black		Nobody will find you till it's too late.
fbi agent		We know you're involved in this abduction.
cheeba		You know more than me.  Why would I do something like that to my best friend?  Why?
dunwitty		Hello, my name is Thomas Dunwitty. I'm the Senior V.P. of the entertainment division here at CNS. I come to you with a heavy heart.
dunwitty		This abduction is a cowardly, vile, sinful and dastardly act and I promise these creeps will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.  This is an attack on your American way of life...
dunwitty		We here at CNS are offering a $100,000 cash award to any information that leads to the safe return home of our dear friend, Mantan.
dunwitty		Help us and in addition you will get a guest-starring speaking role on the next Mantan - The New Millennium Minstrel Show, plus an added bonus: a lifetime of Da Bomb 125% Malt Liquor.  Let's you get ya "freak on", as well as a full wardrobe of Timmi Hillnigger Active Git Toe Wear.  Mantan, may God bless you...
barnett		Let's go, time's wasting.
barnett		They sent the notice out on an anonymous remailer.
sloan		A what?
barnett		It's used to mask the origin of an email, also the computer from which it's sent.
delacroix		There oughta be a law...
barnett		Not yet, anyway, it's legal.  We will find the source where it's being broadcasted and hosted. We'll get the people that bushwhacked Mantan.
sloan		Before Manray is dead?
barnett		I can't answer that.
barnett		The both of you should go home.  We will keep you abreast.
sloan		This is looking like a needle in a haystack.  It's hopeless.
delacroix		Thank you for your help.
barnett		The X-Force always gets their man.
big black		We are LIVE on the cyberspace. Whereas Mantan is a TOM...
black black		Whereas Mantan is a disgrace...
smooth black		Whereas Mantan is a head-scratching, foot-shuffling Negro...
big black		Whereas Mantan the dancing fool, you are condemned to death.
jo black		The Dance of Death.
big black		Dance nigger.
smooth black		You got anything to say for yourself?
manray		If you're gonna kill me, kill me.
smooth black		Don't worry.
delacroix		Don't dance.  Don't do it.
big black		You ain't Blak.
double black		Blak you ain't.
smooth black		You a Oreo.  Not Blak.  Not BLAK.
manray		There is nothing you can do to me. I'm wearing the taps of Bill "Bojangles" Robinson.
big black		Let's seeya dance now, Mr. Bojangles.
delacroix		Leave me alone.  Get away from me. You spearchucker.  You black sambo. You nigger pickaninny.  Fat Mammie.
big black		It's the man!
sloan		Get up and put that tape in.
delacroix		I didn't think this was in your studies at NYU.
sloan		Watch this.  This is what you contributed to.  Because of you, Manray is dead.  Mu brother's dead. It's all because of you.
delacroix		I'm sorry.  I didn't know anyone would get hurt.  I'm sorry, please give me that gun before you hurt yourself.  Give me the gun.
sloan		I told you but you wouldn't listen. You never listened to me.
delacroix		Give me the gun.
****Dialogues from script :Barry_Lyndon.txt****

roderick		I accept, but I insist on a wager. The loser must do whatever the winner pleases.
dorothy		Agreed.
roderick		Do you see the gate at the end of the field?  The first to touch it will be the winner.
dorothy		Your penalty is to find a cherry- colored ribbon which I have hidden somewhere on my person.  You are free to look for it anywhere you will, and I will think very little of you if you do not find it.
roderick		I feel the ribbon.
dorothy		Then you must get it.
dorothy		Why are you shaking?
roderick		With pleasure at finding the ribbon.
dorothy		Sure it's a bitter night, Roderick dear, and you'll catch cold without a handkerchief to your neck.
dorothy		Did you and Miss Clancy have a pleasant evening, Roderick?  You were together, I saw, all night.
dorothy		Oh!  Mercy, you make Daisy rear and throw me, you careless creature, you.
roderick		I hate Miss Clancy, you know I do! And I only danced with her because -- because -- the person with whom I intended to dance chose to be engaged the whole night.
dorothy		I had not been in the room five minutes before I was engaged for every single set.
roderick		Were you obliged to dance five times with Captain Best, and then stroll out with him into the garden?
dorothy		I don't care a fig for Captain Best; he dances prettily to be sure, and is a pleasant rattle of a man.  He looks well in his regimentals, too; and if he chose to ask me to dance, how could I refuse him?
roderick		But you refused me, Dorothy.
dorothy		Oh!  I can dance with you any day, and to dance with your own cousin at a ball as if you could find no other partner.  Besides, Roderick, Captain Best's a man, and you are only a boy, and you haven't a guinea in the world.
roderick		If ever I meet him again, you shall see which is the best man of the two.  I'll fight him with sword or with pistol, captain as he is.
dorothy		But Captain Best is already known as a valiant soldier, and is famous as a man of fashion in London.  It is mighty well of you to fight farmers' boys, but to fight an Englishman is a very different matter.
dorothy		Suppose, now, Roderick, you, who are such a hero, was passing over the bridge and the enemy on the other side.
roderick		I'd draw my sword, and cut my way through them.
dorothy		What, with me on the pillion?  Would you kill poor me?
roderick		Well, then, I'll tell you what I'd do.  I'd jump Daisy into the river, and swim you both across, where no enemy could follow us.
dorothy		Jump twenty feet!  You wouldn't dare to do any such thing on Daisy. There's the captain's horse, Black George, I've heard say that Captain Bes --
roderick		Hold tight to my waist!
roderick		Whose horse, fellow, is that?
orderly		Feller, indeed!  The horse belongs to my captain, and he's a better fellow nor you any day.
captain best		No, Dorothy, except for you and four others, I vow before all the gods, my heart had never felt the soft flame.
dorothy		Ah, you men, you men, John, your passion is not equal to ours.  We are like -- like some plant I've read of -- we bear but one flower, and then we die!
captain best		Do you mean you never felt an inclination for another?
dorothy		Never, my John, but for thee!  How can you ask me such a question?
captain best		Darling Dorothea!
roderick		She's a liar -- she's a liar, Captain Best!  Draw, sir, and defend yourself, if you are a man!
dorothy		Captain Best, for Heaven's sake, spare the child -- he is but an infant.
captain best		And ought to be whipped for his impudence, but never fear, Miss Dugan, I shall not touch him, your favorite is safe from me.
captain best		When ladies make presents to gentlemen, it is time for other gentlemen to retire...
dorothy		Good heavens, Best!  He is but a boy and don't signify any more than my parrot or lap-dog.  Mayn't I give a bit of ribbon to my own cousin?
roderick		 I'm a man, and will prove it.
captain best		You are perfectly welcome, miss, as many yards as you like.
dorothy		Monster!  Your father was a tailor, and you are always thinking of the shop.  But I'll have my revenge, I will!  Roddy, will you see me insulted?
roderick		Indeed, Miss Dorothy, I intend to have his blood as sure as my name's Roderick.
captain best		I'll send for the usher to cane you, little boy, but as for you, miss, I have the honor to wish you a good day.
michael		Hoity-toity!  John Best, what's the matter here?
captain best		I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Dugan. I have had enough of Miss Dugan here and your Irish ways.  I ain't used to 'em, sir.
michael		 Well, well!  What is it?  We'll make you used to our ways, or adopt English ones.
captain best		It's not the English way, for ladies to have two lovers, and, so, Mr. Dugan, I'll thank you to pay me the sum you owe me, and I resign all claims to this young lady.  If she has a fancy for school-boys, let her take 'em, sir.
michael		Pooh!  Pooh!  Best, you are joking.
captain best		I never was more in earnest.
michael		 You -- you!  Hang you for a meddling brat, your hand is in everybody's pie.  What business had you to come brawling and quarreling here, with a gentleman who has fifteen hundred a-year?
dorothy		 Oh, I shall die; I know I shall.  I shall never leave this spot.
captain grogan		 The Captain is gone.
captain grogan		 This is a pretty way to recommend yourself to the family.
roderick		 The man that marries Dorothy Dugan must first kill me -- do you mind that?
michael		 Pooh, sir.  Kill you -- flog you, you mean!  I'll send for Nick the huntsman to do it.
captain grogan		You are a gallant lad, and I like your spirit.  But what Dugan says is true.  It's a hard thing to give a lad counsel who is in such a far- gone state as you; but, believe me, I know the world, and if you will but follow my advice, you won't regret having taken it.  Dorothy Dugan has not a penny; you are not a whit richer.  And, my poor boy, don't you see -- though it's a hard matter to see -- that she's a flirt, and does not care a pin for you or Best either?
roderick		Dorothy might love me or not, as she likes, but Best will have to fight me before he marries her!
captain grogan		Faith, I think you are a lad that's likely to keep your word.
maid		The Englishman's still there, Master Roderick.  He's there in the parlor. Go in, and don't let 'im browbeat you, Master Roderick.
uncle		Hello, Roddy, my boy!  Up and well? That's right.
aunt		He'd better be home with his mother.
uncle		Don't mind her.  It's the cold goose she ate for breakfast -- didn't agree with her.  Take a glass of spirits, Mrs. Dugan, to Roderick's health.
uncle		Dorothy, divide that merry thought with the captain!  See who'll be married first.  Jack Best, my dear boy, never mind a clean glass for the claret, we're short of crystal at Castle Dugan; take Dorothy's and the wine will taste none the worse. Mrs. Dugan and ladies, if you please; this is a sort of toast that is drunk a great deal too seldom in my family, and you'll please to receive it with all the honors. Here's to Captain and Mrs. John Best, and long life to them.  Kiss her, Jack, you rogue; for faith, you've got a treasure.
roderick		 His already?!
harry		Hold your tongue, you fool -- hold your tongue!
roderick		 He has already been slapped in the face this morning, Captain John Best; he's already been called a coward, Captain John Best; and this is the way I'll drink his health. Here's your health, Captain John Best.
harry		You fool!  You great blundering marplot -- you silly beggarly brat --  Hold your tongue!
uncle		In Heaven's name, what does all the row mean?  Is the boy in fever again?
harry		 The fact is, sir, that the young monkey has fallen in love with Dorothy, and finding her and the captain mighty sweet in the garden today, he was for murdering Jack Best.
captain best		 And, I'll tell you what, Mr. Dugan, I've been insulted grossly in this house.  I ain't at all satisfied with these here ways of going on. I'm an Englishman, I am, and a man of property; and I -- I --
harry		If you're insulted, and not satisfied, remember there's two of us, Best.
roderick		 Mr. Best may also have satisfaction any time he pleases, by calling on Roderick James, Esquire, of Jamesville.
roderick		Captain Grogan, I beg you to understand that, for my cousin Harry, who has been my best friend through life, I could put up with rough treatment from him; yet, even that sort of treatment I will bear from him no longer; and any other person who ventures on the like will not like the cost.  Mr. Best knows that fact very well; and, if he's man, he'll know where to find me.
uncle		It is getting late, and your mother will be anxious about you.  One of you had better go home with him.  Or the lad may be playing more pranks.
harry		Both of us ride home with Best here.
captain best		I'm not afraid of highwaymen.  My man is armed, and so am I.
harry		You know the use of arms very well, Best, and no one can doubt your courage; but Michael and I will see you home for all that.
uncle		Why, you'll not be home till morning, boys.  Kilwangan's a good ten miles from here.
harry		We'll sleep in Best's quarters. We're going to stop a week there. And, in another week, my boy.
captain grogan		I'll go home with the boy.
captain grogan		A pretty day's work of it you have made, Master Roderick.  Knowing your uncle to be distressed for money, and try and break off a match which will bring fifteen hundred a-year into the family?  Best has promised to pay off the four thousand pounds which is bothering your uncle so. He takes a girl without a penny -- a girl that has been flinging herself at the head of every man in these parts these ten years past, and missing them all, and a boy who ought to be attached to your uncle as to your father.
roderick		And so I am.
captain grogan		And this is the return you make for his kindness!  Didn't he harbor you in his house when your father died, and hasn't he given you and your mother, rent-free, your fine house of Jamesville yonder?
roderick		Mark this, come what will of it, I swear I will fight the man who pretends to the hand of Dorothy Dugan.  I'll follow him if it's into the church, and meet him there. I'll have his blood, or he shall have mine.  Will you take my message to him, and arrange the meeting?
captain grogan		Well, if it must be, it must.  For a young fellow, you are the most bloodthirsty I ever saw.  No officer, bearing His Majesty's commission, can receive a glass of wine on his nose, without resenting it -- fight you must, and Best is a huge, strong fellow.
roderick		He'll give the better mark.  I am not afraid of him.
captain grogan		In faith, I believe you are not; for a lad I never saw more game in my life.  Give me a kiss, my dear boy. You're after my own soul.  As long as Jack Grogan lives, you shall never want a friend or a second.
mother		Thank God, it's fallen towards me!
roderick		Have you taken my message to him?
captain grogan		The meeting is arranged.  Captain Best is waiting for you now.
roderick		My mare is saddled and ready; who's the captain's second?
captain grogan		Your cousins go out with him.
captain grogan		That's a very handsome sword you have there.
roderick		It was with this sword that my late father, Harry James, God rest his soul, met Sir Huddelstone Fuddelstone, the Hampshire baronet, and was fatally run through the neck.  He was quite in the wrong, having insulted Lady Fuddelstone, when in liquor, at the Brentford Assembly.  But, like a gentleman, he scorned to apologize.
captain grogan		And now you risk the same fate.  If you are killed, your mother is all alone in the world.
roderick		I am Harry James' son, and will act as becomes my name and quality.
roderick		 I hope to spoil this sport, and trust to see this sword of mine in that big bully's body.
captain grogan		Oh, it's with pistols we fight.  You are no match for Best with the sword.
roderick		I'll match any man with the sword.
captain grogan		But swords are today impossible; Captain Best is -- is lame.  He knocked his knee against the swinging park gate last night, as he was riding home, and can scarce move it now.
roderick		Not against Castle Dugan gate, that has been off the hinges these ten years.
captain grogan		It must have been some other gate.
captain grogan		I have just explained to Mister James that Captain Best is lame, and that swords are impossible.
harry		Oh, yes!  Dead lame.
harry		And very lucky for you, Roderick, my boy.  You were a dead man else, for he is a devil of a fellow -- isn't he, Grogan?
captain grogan		A regular Turk.  I never yet knew the man who stood to Captain Best.
harry		Hang the business.  I hate it.  I'm ashamed of it.  Say you're sorry, Roderick.  You can easily say that.
captain best		If the young feller will go to Dublin, as proposed...
roderick		I'm not sorry -- I'll not apologize -- and I'll as soon go to Dublin as to hell!
captain grogan		Look here, Roderick, my boy; this is silly business.  The girl will marry Best, mark my words; and as sure as she does, you'll forget her.  You are but a boy.  Best is willing to consider you as such.  Dublin's a fine place, and if you have a mind to take a ride thither and see the town for a month, here are twenty guineas at your service.  Make Best an apology, and be off.
roderick		A man of honor dies, but never apologizes.  I'll see the captain hanged before I apologize.
harry		 There's nothing else for it.  Take your ground, Grogan -- twelve paces, I suppose?
captain best		 Ten, sir, and make them short ones, do you hear, Captain Grogan?
harry		Don't bully, Mr. Best.  Here are the pistols.  God bless you, my boy; and when I count three, fire.
roderick		This is not one of my pistols.
harry		They are all right, never fear. It's one of mine.  Yours will serve, if they are needed, for the next round.
captain grogan		Roderick, fire at his neck -- hit him there under the gorget; see how the fool shows himself open.
the seconds		 He's down!  He's down!
michael		He's hit here, in the neck.
harry		How is it with you?
michael		 The young fellow has begun well. You had better ride off, young sir, before the police are up.  They had wind of the business before we left Kilwangan.
roderick		Is he quite dead?
michael		Quite dead.
captain grogan		Then the world's rid of a coward. It's all over with him, Roddy -- he doesn't stir.
harry		We are not cowards, Grogan, whatever he was!  Let's get the boy off as quick as we may.  Your man shall go for a cart, and take away the body of this unhappy gentleman.  This has been a sad day's work for our family, Roderick James, and you have robbed us of fifteen-hundred a-year.
roderick		It was Dorothy did it.
roderick		There!  Take her those ribbons. She'll know what they mean; that's all that's left of her of two lovers she had and ruined.
michael		And now, in Heaven's name, get the youngster out of the way.
harry		I'll go with you.
harry		The boy must go into hiding, for a short time anyway.  Dublin is the best place for him to go, and there wait until matters are blown over.
mother		Dublin?  But the poor lad has never been away from home.  He will be as safe here as in Dublin.
harry		I wish that were true, Auntie dear, but I'm afraid the bailiffs may already be on their way from Kilwangan.
mother		 Roderick, my darling, my wild boy, I have forebodings that our separation is to be a long one.  I spent most of all night consulting the cards regarding your fate in the duel, and all signs betoke a separation.  Here is twenty guineas -- all that I have in the world -- and I want you to keep your father's sword and pistols, which you have known to use so like a man.
armed gentleman		Good day to you, young sir.
roderick		Good morning.
armed gentleman		Where are you bound for?
roderick		 That is none of your business.
armed gentleman		Is your mother not afraid on account of the highwayman to let one so young as you travel?
roderick		 Not at all, sir.  I have a pair of good pistols that have already done execution, and are ready to do it again.
footman		Stop thief!
roderick		What is this noise, fellows?
roderick		What has happened, madam, to annoy your ladyship?
roderick		 Have you lost much?
footman		Be fair, ma'am, them wasn't so much. Didn't he return you the thirteen pence in copper, and the watch, saying it was only pinchbeck?
footman		Sorry, ma'am.
roderick		I am riding to Dublin myself, and if your ladyship will allow me the honor of riding with you, I shall do my best to protect you from further mishap.
roderick		O'Higgins... Mohawk O'Higgins.
roderick		 As you have been robbed of your purse, may I have permission to lend your ladyship a couple of pieces to pay any expenses which you might incur before reaching your home?
roderick		I am only sorry that I was unable to prevent the villain from carrying off all her ladyship's money and pearls.
roderick		Which O'Higgins do you know?  For I have never heard your name mentioned in my family.
roderick		Ah -- I see.  No, I'm afraid mine are the O'Higgins of Watertown.
roderick		I shall have to write out a note for the rest of it, Captain O'Reilly.
councillor mulligan		Master Roderick, you appear a young fellow of birth and fortune; let me whisper in your ear that you have fallen into very bad hands -- it's a regular gang of swindlers; and a gentleman of your rank and quality should never be seen in such company.  The captain has been a gentleman's gentleman, and his lady of no higher rank.  Go home, pack your valise, pay the little trifle you owe me, mount your mare, and ride back again to your parents -- it's the very best thing you can do.
roderick		Sirrah!  Sirrah, I am as good a gentleman as any in Ireland!
roderick		Repeat the words again, and I run you through the body.
roderick		Hark ye, Mr. O'Reilly, I will tell you why I was obliged to alter my name, which is James and the best name in Ireland.  I changed it, sir, because, on the day before I came to Dublin, I killed a man in deadly combat -- an Englishman, sir, and a Captain in His Majesty's service; and if you offer to let or hinder me in the slightest way, the same arm which destroyed him is ready to punish you.
roderick		I will tell you frankly, sir.  I am a young gentleman in difficulties; I have killed an officer in a duel, and I am anxious to get out of the country.
roderick		Fellow, get me a glass!
roderick		Is it a towel of your wife's washing, Mr. Toole?  I'm told she wiped your face often with one.
captain grogan		I had news of you in Dublin.  Faith, you've begun early, like your father's son, but I think you could not do better than as you have done. But why did you not write home to your poor mother?  She has sent half-a-dozen letters to you in Dublin.
roderick		I suppose she addressed them to me in my real name, by which I never thought to ask for them at the post office.
captain grogan		We must write to her today, and you can tell her that you are safe and married to "Brown Bess."
captain grogan		I see you are thinking of a certain young lady at Duganstown.
roderick		Is Miss Dugan well?
captain grogan		There's only six Miss Dugans now... poor Dorothy.
roderick		Good heavens!  Whatever?  Has she died of grief?
captain grogan		She took on so at your going away that she was obliged to console herself with a husband.  She is now Mrs. John Best.
roderick		Mrs. John Best!  Was there another Mr. John Best?!
captain grogan		No, the very same one, my boy.  He recovered from his wound.  The ball you hit him with was not likely to hurt him.  It was only made of tow. Do you think the Dugans would let you kill fifteen hundred a-year out of the family?  The plan of the duel was all arranged in order to get you out of the way, for the cowardly Englishman could never be brought to marry from fear of you.  But hit him you certainly did, Roderick, and with a fine thick plugget of tow, and the fellow was so frightened that he was an hour in coming to. We told your mother the story afterwards, and a pretty scene she made.
roderick		The coward!
captain grogan		He has paid off your uncle's mortgage.  He gave Dorothy a coach- and-six.  That coward of a fellow has been making of your uncle's family.  Faith, the business was well done.  Your cousins, Michael and Harry, never let him out of their sight, though he was for deserting to England, until the marriage was completed, and the happy couple off on their road to Dublin.  Are you in want of cash, my boy?  You may draw upon me, for I got a couple of hundred out of Master Best for my share and, while they last, you shall never want.
captain		Grogan's down; Lakenham, there's your company.
captain grogan		I should have left you a hundred guineas, Roderick, but for a cursed run of ill-luck last night at faro.
lakenham		Here, you, Roderick James.  I will pay you five guineas if you will carry me into the town which is hard by those woods.
private		I should get half.
roderick		Your share is one guinea.
private		He gave you five guineas, and I bloody well expect half.
roderick		Go to the devil.
lakenham		 Who are you putting into that bed?
lischen		We have the Corporal, wounded, to you bringing.
lakenham		A corporal?  Turn him out.  Schicken sie Herrn Koporal weg!
roderick		I'm promoted Lieutenant.  I've come to take my leave of you.  I intend to have your papers and purse.
lakenham		You great scoundrel!  You mutinous dog!  What do you mean by dressing yourself in my regimentals?  As sure as my name's Lakenham, when we get back to the regiment, I'll have your soul cut out of your body.
roderick		Hark ye, sir!  No more noise, or you are a dead man!
captain galgenstein		What is your uncle's name?
roderick		 O'Grady.
captain galgenstein		 Oh, yes, of course, Ambassador O'Grady...
captain galgenstein		It hurts my feelings to be obliged to commune with such wretches, but the stern necessities of war demand men continually, and hence these recruiters whom you see market in human flesh.  They get five-and- twenty thaler a man from our government for every man they bring in.  For fine men -- for men like you.  They would go as high as hundred.
captain galgenstein		This is a very good inn.  Shall we stop for dinner?
roderick		This may be a very good inn for Germany, but it would not pass in old Ireland.  Corbach is only a league off, let us push on for Corbach.
captain galgenstein		Do you want to see the loveliest woman in Europe?
captain galgenstein		Ah!  You sly rogue, I see that will influence you.
roderick		The place seems more a farm than an inn-yard.
captain galgenstein		The people are great farmers, as well as inn-keepers.
captain galgenstein		 Parties of French horsemen are about the country, and one cannot take too many precautions against such villains.
captain galgenstein		Well, our meal is a frugal one, but a soldier has many a time a worse.
roderick		 Where's the beauty you promised me?
captain galgenstein		 It was my joke.  I was tired, and did not care to go farther.  There's not prettier woman here than that. If she won't suit your fancy, my friend, then you must wait awhile.
roderick		 Upon my word, sir, I think you have acted very coolly.
captain galgenstein		I have acted as I think fit.
roderick		Sir, I'm a British officer.
captain galgenstein		It's a lie!  You're a deserter! You're an impostor, sir; Your lies and folly have confirmed this to me. You pretend to carry dispatches to a general who has been dead these ten months; you have an uncle who is an ambassador and whose name you don't know.  Will you join and take the bounty, sir, or will you be given up?
roderick		Neither!
captain galgenstein		Advance a step, and I send this bullet into your brains!
roderick		I volunteer.
roderick		I had formed myself to the condition of the proper fighting beast; on a day of action, I was savage and happy.
colonel bulow		You are a gallant soldier, and have evidently come of good stock; but you are idle, dissolute, and unprincipled; you have done a deal of harm to the men; and, for all your talents and bravery, I am sure you will come to no good.
roderick		I hope Colonel Bulow is mistaken regarding my character.  I have fallen into bad company, it is true; but I have only done as other soldiers have done; and, above all, I have never had a kind friend and protector before, to whom I might show that I was worthy of better things.  The Colonel may say I am a ruined lad, and send me to the devil; but be sure of this, I would go to the devil to serve the regiment.
roderick		Private Roderick James.  First Hanoverian Guards.  Captain Galgenstein sent for me.
prussian sergeant		You may wait.
roderick		Thank you, sir.
private		Sergeant, the wagon has arrived with the Captain's furniture, but the driver says he is not supposed to unload it.  Is it possible for you to talk to him?
captain galgenstein		Good morning, Private James.  Please come in.  I should like you to meet my uncle, Herr Minister of Police Galgenstein.
roderick		How do you do, sir?
captain galgenstein		Your loyalty to me and your service to the regiment has pleased me very well -- and now there is another occasion on which you may make yourself useful to us; if you succeed, depend on it, your reward will be your discharge from the army, and a bounty of 100 guineas.
roderick		What is the service, sir?
captain galgenstein		There is lately come to Berlin a gentleman in the service of the Empress Queen, who calls himself the Chevalier de Belle Fast, and wears the red riband and star of the pope's order of the Spur.  He is made for good society, polished, obliging, a libertine, without prejudices, fond of women, of good food, of high play, prudent and discreet.
captain galgenstein		He speaks Italian and French indifferently; but we have some reason to fancy this Monsieur de Belle Fast is a native of your country of Ireland, and that he has come here as a spy.
captain galgenstein		Naturally, your knowledge of English makes you an ideal choice to go into his service.  Of course, you will not know a word of English; and if the Chevalier asks as to the particularity of your accent, say you are Hungarian.  The servant who came with him will be turned away today, and the person to whom he has applied for a faithful fellow will recommend you.
captain galgenstein		You are a Hungarian; you served in the army, and left on account of weakness in the loins.  He gambles a great deal, and wins.  Do you know the cards well?
roderick		Only a very little, as soldiers do.
captain galgenstein		I had thought you more expert.  You must find out if the Chevalier cheats.  He sees the English and Austrian envoys continually, and the young men of either ministry sup repeatedly at his house.  Find out what they talk of, for how much each plays, especially if any of them play on parole.  If you are able to, read his private letters, though about those which go to the post, you need not trouble yourself -- we look at them there.  But never see him write a note without finding out to whom it goes, and by what channel or messenger.  He sleeps with the keys of his dispatch-box with a string around his neck -- twenty frederics, if you get an impression of the keys.
minister galgenstein		Does this assignment interest you?
roderick		Yes, Minister, I am interested in any work in which I can be of service to Captain Galgenstein.
chevalier		You are the young man who M. de Seebach recommended?
roderick		Yes, sir.  Here is my letter.
chevalier		Your name is Lazlo Zilagyi?
roderick		Yes, sir.
chevalier		You come highly recommended by Herr Seebach.
roderick		Herr Seebach was a very kind employer.
chevalier		For whom else have you worked?
roderick		No one, sir.  Before that I served in the army but had to leave due to weakness of the loins.
chevalier		Who else can give me information about you?
roderick		Only the agency of servants.
chevalier		You will do.  I will give you 30... a day.  I do not provide your clothing; you will sleep at home, and you will be at my orders every morning at seven o'clock.
chevalier		Is there something wrong?
roderick		 Sir, I have a confession to make.  I am an Irishman, and my name is Roderick James.  I was abducted into the Prussian army two years ago, and now I have been put into your service by my Captain and his uncle, the Minister of Police, to serve as a watch upon your actions, of which I am to give information to the same quarter.  For this odious service, I have been promised my discharge, and a hundred guineas.
chevalier		The rascals!  They think to catch me, do they?  Why, young man, my chief conspiracy is a faro-bank. But the king is so jealous, that he will see a spy in every person who comes to his miserable capital, in the great sandy desert here.
chevalier		I'd give five years of my life to see the old country again, the greenfields, and the river, and the old round tower, and the burying place.
chevalier		My lad, I have been in every service; and, between ourselves, owe money in every capital in Europe.  I have been a rolling stone.  Play -- play has been my ruin!  That and beauty.  The women have made a fool of me, my dear boy.  I am a soft- hearted creature, and this minute, at sixty-two, have no more command of myself than when Peggy O'Dwyer made a fool of me at sixteen.
chevalier		The cards are now my only livelihood.  Sometimes I am in luck, and then I lay out my money in these trinkets you see.  It's property, look you, and the only way I have found of keeping a little about me. When the luck goes against me, why, my dear, my diamonds go to the pawnbrokers and I wear paste.  Do you understand the cards?
roderick		I can play as soldiers do, but have no great skill.
chevalier		We will practice in the mornings, my boy, and I'll put you up to a thing or two worth knowing.
roderick		He goes to church regularly -- he is very religious, and after hearing mass comes home to breakfast.  Then he takes an airing in his chariot till dinner, which is served at noon.  After dinner, he writes his letters, if he has any letters to write; but he has very little to do in this way.  His letters are to the Austrian envoy, with whom he corresponds, but who does not acknowledge him; and being written in English, or course, I look over his shoulder.  He generally writes for money.  He makes his party with Calsabigi, the lottery contractor, the Russian attaches, two from the English embassy, my lords Deuceace and Punter, who play a jeu d'enfer, and a few more.  He wins often, but not always.  Lord Deuceace is a very fine player.  The Chevalier Elliott, the English Minister, sometimes comes, on which occasion the secretaries do not play.
prince		Chevalier, though I cannot say how, I believe you have cheated me.
chevalier		I deny your Grace's accusations, and beg you to say how you have been cheated?
prince		 I don't know.
chevalier		Your Grace owes me seventy thousand frederics, which I have honorably won.
prince		Chevalier, if you will have your money now, you must fight for it. If you will be patient, maybe I will pay you something another time.
chevalier		Your Grace, if I am so tame as to take this, then I must give up an honorable and lucrative occupation.
prince		I have said all there is to be said. I am at your disposal for whatever purposes you wish.  Good night.
minister galgenstein		Was he cheated?
roderick		In so far as I can tell these things -- no.  I believe the Chevalier won the money fairly.
minister galgenstein		Hmm-mmmm.
captain galgenstein		What are the Chevalier's intentions?
roderick		I am not sure.  The Prince told him quite clearly that if he wished to have the money, he would have to fight for it.
minister galgenstein		A meeting with the Prince of Turbingen is impossible.
roderick		The Prince left him only that choice.
minister galgenstein		Will you be able to return here tomorrow without arousing suspicion?
chevalier		Tell them I intend to demand satisfaction from the Prince.
roderick		But they will prevent a meeting at whatever the cost.
chevalier		Have no fear.  It will come out well for me.
roderick		I believe they will deport you.
chevalier		I have faced that problem before.
roderick		But, if they send you away, then what is to become of me?
chevalier		 Make your mind easy, you shall not be left behind, I warrant you.  Do take a last look at your barracks, make your mind easy, say a farewell to your friends in Berlin.  The dear souls, how they will weep when they hear you are out of the country, and, out of it, you shall go.
roderick		But how, sir?
minister galgenstein		The King has determined to send the Chevalier out of the country.
roderick		When is he to go?
captain galgenstein		Has he sent the challenge yet?
roderick		Not yet, but I believe he intends to.
minister galgenstein		Then this must be done tomorrow.
roderick		What is to be done?
captain galgenstein		You say he drives after breakfast and before dinner.  When he comes out to his carriage a couple of gendarmes will mount the box, and the coachman will get his orders to move on.
roderick		And his baggage?
captain galgenstein		Oh!  That will be sent after him.  I have a fancy to look into that red box which contains his papers, you say; and at noon, after parade, shall be at the inn.  You will not say a word to any one there regarding the affair, and will wait for me at the Chevalier's rooms until my arrival.  We must force that box.  You are a clumsy hound, or you would have got the key long ago.
chevalier		Where is my rascal, Lazlo?
prussian officer		 I will let down the steps for your honor.
chevalier		Good gracious!  What is this?
prussian officer		 You are going to drive to the frontier.
chevalier		It is shameful -- infamous!  I insist upon being put down at the Austrian ambassador's house.
prussian officer		I have orders to gag your honor if you cry out, and to give you this purse containing ten thousand frederics if you do not.
chevalier		Ten thousand?  But the scoundrel owes me seventy thousand.
prussian officer		Your honor must lower his voice.
chevalier		 All Europe shall hear of this!
prussian officer		As you please.
prussian officer		Do not be alarmed.  The alarm cannon only signals a deserter.
chevalier		I have no luggage.
prussian officer		The gentleman has nothing contraband.
chevalier		Gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Will you please go to the house from whence we set out this morning, and tell my man there to send my baggage on to Three Kings at Dresden?
captain galgenstein		 Roderick!  Are you there?
captain galgenstein		The rogue is gone out.
chevalier		Where is my servant?  Who dares to rob me in open day?  Look at the villain whom I find in the act of breaking my chest open!  Send for the police, send for his Excellency the Austrian Minister!  All Europe shall know of this insult!
landlord		Dear heaven!  We saw you go away three hours ago.
chevalier		Me!  Why, man, I have been in bed all morning.  I am ill -- I have taken physic -- I have not left the house this morning!  Where is that scoundrel, Lazlo?  But, stop!  Where are my clothes and wig?
chambermaid		I have it -- I have it!  Lazlo is off in your honor's dress.
chevalier		And my money -- my money!  Where is my purse with forty-eight frederics in it?  But we have one of the villains left, Officers, seize him.
landlord		 It's the young Herr Galgenstein.
chevalier		What!  A gentleman breaking open my trunk with hammer and chisel -- impossible!
chevalier		Sir, we have but eighty thousand florins in bank, or two hundred thousand at three months; if your highness' bags do not contain more than eight thousand, we will meet you.
roderick		Do you expect me to believe that your lover brought you here tonight?
valdez		Yes.  He brought me in his carriage, and he will call for me at midnight.
roderick		And he doesn't care about me?
valdez		He is only curious to know who you are.
roderick		If his love were like mine, he would not permit you to come here.
valdez		He loves me, as I love you.
roderick		Will he wish to know the details of this night?
valdez		He will believe that it will please me if he asks about it, and I shall tell him everything except some circumstances which might humiliate him.
langeac		I will put in on you myself.
langeac		There you are, dressed by my hand. It is nearly the same thing; but despite the fineness and transparency of the skin, the little fellow pleases me less well in costume.  It seems that this covering degrades him, or degrades me -- one of the other.
roderick		Both, my angel.  It was Love who invented these little jackets:  for he had to ally himself with Precaution.
count		I entered here, monsieur, at a bad moment for you; it seems that you love this lady.
roderick		Certainly, monseigneur, does not Your Excellency consider her worthy of love?
count		Perfectly so; and what is more, I will tell you that I love her, and that I am not of a humor to put up with rivals.
roderick		Very well!  Now that I know it, I will no longer love her.
count		Then you yield to me.
roderick		On the instant.  Everyone must yield to such a nobleman as you.
count		Very well; but a man who yields takes to his legs.
roderick		That is a trifle strong.
count		Take to your legs, low Irish dog.
roderick		Your Excellency has wantonly insulted me.  That being so, I conclude that you hate me, Monseigneur, and that hence you would be glad to remove me from the number of the living.  In this wish, I can and will satisfy Your Excellency.
dascher		I see that you are without your sword, but I believe you are a man of mettle.  Will you give me satisfaction?
roderick		I shall be delighted; but you have lost and you must pay me the money before we meet, for, after all, you cannot pay me when you are dead.
another officer		I will undertake to pay you the 20 louis, but only tomorrow morning at the meeting.
dascher		I may have been mistaken, but I mean to make you pay deadly for your brutality.
roderick		 It is distasteful to kill a scoundrel -- that should be work for a hangman.
chevalier		To risk one's life against such people is an imposition.
roderick		 I risk nothing, for I am certain to kill him.
chevalier		Certain?
roderick		Perfectly certain, because I shall make him tremble.
roderick		You have only to pace yourself at ten paces difference, and fire first.  The space between these two trees is the place where I choose to walk back and forth.  You may walk too, if you wish, when it is my turn to fire.
dascher		But we must decide who is to have the first shot.
roderick		There is no need of that.  I never fire first; and, in any case, you have that right.
roderick		 You missed me, sir.  I was sure you would.  Try again.
roderick		I am posting, monsieur, and furthermore I am a foreigner.
stranger		Monsieur, here in Saxony, the post has no special right, and if you are a foreigner, you must admit that you have no greater claim than mine, since I am in my own country.
sir william		Hang it, Mr. Roderick James, you have no more manners than a barber, and I think my black footman has been better educated than you; but you are a young fellow of originality and pluck, and I like you, sir.  because you seem determined to go to the devil by a way of your own.
roderick		I am obliged to observe, Sir William Cosgrove, that since you are bound for the next world much sooner than I am, I will depend on you to get comfortable quarters arranged for me.
sir william		Indeed, you are right, sir.  Look at me.  Marriage has added forty years to my life.  I am dying, a worn-out cripple, at the age of fifty.  When I took off Lady Cosgrove, there was no man of my years who looked so young as myself.  Fool that I was! I had enough with my pensions, perfect freedom, the best society in Europe -- and I gave up all these, and married and was miserable.  Take a warning from me, Mr. Roderick, and stick to the trumps.  Do anything, but marry.
roderick		Would you have me spend my life all alone?
sir william		In truth, sir, yes, but, if you must marry, then marry a virtuous drudge.
roderick		 The milkmaid's daughter?
sir william		Well, why not a milkmaid's daughter? No man of sense need restrict himself or deny himself a single amusement for his wife's sake; on the contrary, if he selects the animal properly, he will choose such a one as shall be no bar to his pleasure, but a comfort in his hours of annoyance.  For instance, I have got the gout; who tends me?  A hired valet who robs me whenever he has the power.  My wife never comes near me.  What friend have I?  None in the wide world.  Men of the world, as you and I are, don't make friends, and we are fools for our pains.
sir william		My lady is a weak woman, but she is my mistress.  She is a fool, but she has got the better of one of the best heads in Christendom.  She is enormously rich, but somehow I have never been so poor, as since I married her.  I thought to better myself, and she has made me miserable and killed me, and she will do as much for my successor when I'm gone.
roderick		Has her ladyship a very large income?
roderick		Charming lady, tell me the truth and earn my gratitude.  Have you a lover?
countess		No.
roderick		Have you had one?
countess		Never.
roderick		But, for a time... a passing fancy?
countess		Not even that.
roderick		How can I believe that there is not a man who has inspired desires in you?
countess		Not one.
roderick		Have you not a man whom you value?
countess		That man has, perhaps, not yet been born.
roderick		What!  You have not met a man worthy of your attention?
countess		Many worthy of attention; but valuing is something more.  I could value only someone whom I loved.
roderick		Then you have never loved?  Your heart is empty.
countess		Your word "empty" makes me laugh. Is it fortunate, or unfortunate?  If it is fortunate, I congratulate myself.  If it is unfortunate, I do not care, for I am not aware of it.
roderick		It is nonetheless a misfortune, and you will know it when you love.
countess		But if, when I love, I am unhappy, I will know that my empty heart was my good fortune.
roderick		That is true, but it seems to me impossible that you should be unhappy in love.
countess		It is only too possible.  Love requires a mutual harmony which is difficult, and it is even more difficult to make it last.
roderick		I agree; but God put us on earth to take that risk.
countess		A man may need to do that, and find it amusing; but a girl is bound by other laws.
roderick		I believe you, and I see I must hasten to leave, for otherwise I shall become the unhappiest of men.
countess		How so?
roderick		By loving you, with no hope of possessing you.
countess		You want my heart?
roderick		It is my only object.
countess		To make me wretched in two weeks.
roderick		To love you until death.  To subscribe to all your commands.
countess		The amusing thing is that you deceive me without knowing, if it is true that you love me.
roderick		Deceiving someone without knowing it is something new for me.  If I do not know it, I am innocent.
countess		But you deceive me nonetheless if I believe you, for it will not be in your power to love me when you love me no longer.
countess		Be so good as to tell me with whom you think you are?
roderick		With a woman who is completely charming, be she a princess or a woman of the lowest condition, and who, regardless of her rank, will show me some kindness, tonight.
countess		And if she does not choose to show you some kindness?
roderick		Then I will respectfully take leave of her.
countess		You will do as you please.  It seems to me that such a matter can hardly be discussed until after people know each other.  Do you not agree?
roderick		Yes -- but I am afraid of being deceived.
countess		Poor man.  And, for that reason, you want to begin where people end?
roderick		I ask only a payment on account today -- after that, you will find me undemanding, obedient and discreet.
roderick		Will we always leave it at this?
countess		Always, my dear one, never any further.  Love is a child to be pacified with trifles.  A full diet can only kill it.
roderick		I know better than you do.  Love wants a more substantial fare, and if it is stubbornly withheld, it withers away.
countess		Our abstinence makes our love immortal.  If I loved you a quarter of an hour ago, now I should love you even more.  But I should love you less if you exhausted my joy by satisfying all my desires.
roderick		Let us give each other complete happiness, and let us be sure that as many times as we satisfy our desires, they will each time be born anew.
countess		My husband has convinced me of the contrary.
roderick		Sir William Cosgrove is a man who is dying, and yet I envy him more than any man in Christendom.  He enjoys a privilege of which I am deprived. He may take you in his arms whenever he pleases, and no veil keeps his senses, his eyes, his soul from enjoying your beauty.
countess		Shall I tell you something -- I believed what was called love came after the union -- and I was surprised when my husband, making me a woman, made me know it only by pain, unaccompanied by any pleasure. I saw that my imaginings had stood me in better stead.  And so we became only friends, seldom sleeping together and arousing no curiosity in each other, yet on good terms for a while, as whenever he wanted me, I was at his service, but since the offering was not seasoned with love, he found it tasteless, and seldom demanded it.
roderick		O, my dearest love.  Enough!  I beg you.  Stop believing in your experience.  You have never known love.  My very soul is leaving me! Catch it on your lips, and give me yours!
countess		Without you, my dearest, I might have died without ever knowing love. Inexpressible love!  God of nature! Bitterness than which nothing is sweeter, sweetness than which nothing is more bitter.  Divine monster which can only be defined by paradoxes.
roderick		Let me give a thousand kisses to that heavenly mouth which has told me that I am happy.
countess		As soon as I saw you loved me, I was pleased, and I gave you every opportunity to fall more in love with me, being certain that, for my part, I would never love you.  But after our first kiss, I found that I had no power over myself.  I did not know that one kiss could matter so much.
sir william		Good evening, Mr. James, have you done with my lady?
roderick		I beg your pardon?
sir william		Come, come, sir.  I am a man who would rather be known as a cuckold than a fool.
roderick		I think, Sir William Cosgrove, you have had too much drink.  Your chaplin, Mr. Hunt, has introduced me into the company of your lady to advise me on a religious matter, of which she is a considerable expert.
sir william		Gentlemen, see this amiable youth! He has been troubled by religious scruples, and has flown for refuge to my chaplin, Mr. Hunt, who has asked for advise from my wife, Lady Cosgrove, and between them both, they are confirming my ingenious young friend in his faith.  Did you ever hear of such doctors and such a disciple?
roderick		Faith, sir, if I want to learn good principles, it's surely better I should apply for them to your lady, and your chaplin than to you?
sir william		 He wants to step into my shoes!  He wants to step into my shoes!
roderick		Well, if my intentions are what you think they are -- if I do wish to step into your shoes, what then?  I have no other intentions than you had yourself.  Lady Cosgrove's wealth may be great, but am I not of a generous nature enough to use it worthily?  Her rank is lofty, but not so lofty as my ambition.  I will be sworn to muster just as much regard for my Lady Cosgrove as you ever showed her; and if I win her, and wear her when you are dead and gone, corbleu, knight, do you think that it will be the fear of your ghost will deter me?
sir william		Is it not a pleasure, gentlemen, for me, as I am drawing near the goal, to find my home such a happy one; my wife so fond of me, that she is even now thinking of appointing a successor?  Isn't it a comfort to see her; like a prudent housewife, getting everything ready for her husband's departure?
roderick		I hope that you are not thinking of leaving us soon, knight?
sir william		Not so soon, my dear, as you may fancy perhaps.  Why, man, I have been given over many times these four years, and there was always a candidate or two waiting to apply for the situation.  Who knows how long I may keep you waiting.
roderick		Sir, let those laugh that win.
sir william		I am sorry for you Mr. James.  I'm grieved to keep you or any gentleman waiting.  Had you not better to arrange with my doctor or get the cook to flavor my omelette with arsenic?  What are the odds, gentlemen, that I don't live to see Mr. James hang yet?
voice		Dies at Spa, in the Kingdom of Belgium, the Right Honorable Sir William Cosgrove, Knight of the Bath, Member of Parliament for Cosgrove and Devonshire and many years His Majesty's representative at various European courts.  He hath left behind him a name which is endeared to all his friends for his manifold virtues and talents, a reputation justly acquired in the service of His Majesty, and an inconsolable widow to deplore his loss.
countess		My Lord Brookside, come and embrace your papa!
brookside		He, my father!  I would as soon call one of your ladyship's footmen, papa!
countess		Lord Brookside, you have offended your father.
brookside		Mother, you have offended my father.
brookside		Dear child, what a pity it is I am not dead for your sake!  The Cosgroves would then have a worthy representative, and enjoy all the benefits of the illustrious blood of the James' of Duganstown, would they not, Mr. James Cosgrove?
mother		Ah, Roderick, it's a blessing to see that my darling boy has attained a position I always knew was his due, and for which I pinched myself to educate him.  Little Patrick is a darling boy, and you live in great splendor, but how long will it last? Your lady-wife knows she has a treasure she couldn't have had, had she taken a duke to marry her, but if, one day, she should tire of my wild Roderick and his old-fashioned Irish ways, or if she should die, what future would there be for my son and grandson?
mother		You have not a penny of your own, and cannot transact any business without the Countess' signature. Upon her death, the entire estate would go to young Brookside, who bears you little affection.  You could be penniless tomorrow, and darling Patrick at the mercy of his stepbrother.
mother		I shall tell you a secret -- I shall not rest until I see you Earl of Duganstown, and my grandson, a Lord Viscount.
mother		This head would become a coronet.
mother		These things entail considerable expense, and you will need your lady's blessing, but the young boy forms the great bond of union between you and her ladyship, and there is no plan of ambition you could propose in which she would not join for the poor lad's benefit, and no expense she will not eagerly incur, if it might be any means be shown to tend to his advancement. You have important friends, and they can tell you how these things are done.
lord west		Do you happen to know Gustavus Adolphus, the thirteenth Earl of Crabs?
roderick		By name only.
lord west		Well, sir, this nobleman is one of the gentlemen of His Majesty's closet, and one with whom our revered monarch is on terms of considerable intimacy.  I should say you would be wise to fix upon this nobleman your chief reliance for the advancement of your claim to the Viscounty which you propose to get.
george iii		That's right, Mr. Cosgrove, raise another company, and go with them, too!
johnson		If I were you, Mr. Cosgrove, I should mind my horses and tailors and not trouble myself about letters.
roderick		Dr. Johnson, I think you misbehave most grossly, treating my opinions with no more respect than those of a schoolboy.  You fancy, sir, you know a great deal more than me, because you quote your "Aristotle" and "Plato," but can you tell me which horse will win at Epsom Downs next week?  Can you shoot the ace of spades ten times without missing? If so, talk about Aristotle and Plato with me.
boswell		 Do you know who you're speaking to?!
johnson		Hold your tongue, Mr. Boswell, I had no right to brag of my Greek, gentlemen, and he has answered me very well.
roderick		 Do you know ever a rhyme for Aristotle?
goldsmith		 Port, if you please.
johnson		Waiter, bring on of Captain James' rhymes for Aristotle.
henri		I am at your service, Mr. Cosgrove. How much do you wish to spend?
roderick		As much as possible.
henri		As much as possible?
roderick		Yes, for I wish to entertain splendidly.
henri		All the same, you must name an amount.
roderick		It is entirely up to you.  I want the best.
roderick		Will that be enough?
henri		Last month, the Duke of Suffolk spent no more.
roderick		All right, five hundred guineas.
patrick		Papa, please don't flog Brookside today.  It wasn't his fault -- really is wasn't.
brookside		 Look you now, Mister Roderick James, from this moment on, I will submit to no further chastisement from you! Do you understand that?
roderick		Give me that pistol.
brookside		Take heed, Mister James.  I will shoot you if you lay hands on me now, or ever again.  Is that entirely clear to you, sir?
brookside		 Don't you think he fits my shoes very well, Sir Richard Wargrave?
countess		From the manner in which I love this child, my lord, you ought to know how I would have loved his elder brother, had he proved worthy of any mother's affection.
brookside		Madam, I have borne as long as mortal could endure the ill- treatment of the insolent Irish upstart, whom you have taken into your bed.  It is not only the lowness of his birth, and the general brutality of his manners which disgusts me, but the shameful nature of his conduct towards your ladyship, his brutal and ungentlemanlike behavior, his open infidelity, his habits of extravagance, intoxication, his shameless robberies and swindling of my property and yours.  It is these insults to you which shock and annoy me more than the ruffian's infamous conduct to myself.  I would have stood by your ladyship, as I promised, but you seem to have taken latterly your husband's part; and, as I cannot personally chastise this low-bred ruffian, who, to our shame be it spoken, is the husband of my mother, and as I cannot bear to witness his treatment of you, and loathe his horrible society as if it were the plague, I am determined to quit my native country, at least during his detested life, or during my own.
roderick		Sire, my Lord Brookside has set sail to fight the rebels against Your Majesty's crown in America.  Does Your Majesty desire that I should send another company to aid him?
roderick		Thus it is that my loyalty is rewarded, and my sacrifices in favor of my country viewed!
roderick		I insist upon being allowed to appear before His Majesty and clear myself of the imputations against me, to point out my services to the government, and to ask when the reward, that had been promised me, the title held by my ancestors, is again to be revived in my person.
lord west		 Have you done, Mr. Cosgrove?
roderick		Yes!
lord west		Well, Mr. Cosgrove, I'll answer you point by point.  The King is exceedingly averse to make peers, as you know.  Your claim, as you call them, have been laid before him, and His Majesty's gracious reply was, that you were the most impudent man in his dominions, and merited a halter, rather than a coronet.  As for withdrawing your support from us, you are perfectly welcome to carry yourself whithersoever you please.  And, now, as I have a great deal of occupation, perhaps you will do me the favor to retire, or tell me if there is anything else in the world in which I can oblige you.
broker		Your wife's life is as well known among the insurance societies in London, as any woman in Christendom, and, I'm sorry to say there is not one of them willing to place another policy against her ladyship's life. One of them even had the impudence to suggest that your treatment of the Countess did not render her life worth a year's purchase.
roderick		Timmy, take the injured lad to see the doctor, and then bring the horse to Doolan's farm, and tell him to break him in thoroughly.  Tell him it's for little Patrick, and that I'll be over to see him next week.
roderick		One more thing, and listen well, I don't want little Patrick to know where the horse is being kept.  It's going to be surprise for his birthday.
patrick		Hello, papa!
patrick		Did you buy the horse, papa?
roderick		Now, just have a little patience, my boy.  Your birthday isn't until next week.
patrick		But I will have it on my birthday, won't I?
roderick		Well, we'll just have to wait and see, won't we?
patrick		 Good night, papa.
roderick		Good night, my little darling.
patrick		Papa?
roderick		Yes?
patrick		One of the boys in the stable told Nelly that you've already bought my horse, and that it's at Doolan's farm, where Mick the groom is breaking it in.  Is that true, papa?
roderick		 What the devil?  What kind of fools do we have here?  Pottle, who told the lad this story?
hunt		I don't know, sir.
patrick		Then it's true!  It's true!  Oh, thank you, papa!  Thank you!
countess		Promise me, Patrick, that you will not ride the horse except in the company of your father.
patrick		 I promise, mama.
roderick		I promise your lordship a good flogging if you even so much as go to Doolan's farm to see him.
patrick		Yes, papa.
roderick		Yes...?
valet		I'm sorry to disturb you, sir, but Mr. Hunt has something important to tell you.
roderick		Yes?
hunt		I think Master Patrick has disobeyed your orders and stolen off to Doolan's farm.  When I went to the lad's room this morning, his bed was empty.  One of the cooks said she saw him go away before daybreak.  He must have slipped through my room while I was asleep.
patrick		You won't whip me, will you, papa?
patrick		 Papa, I beg you and mama to pardon me for any acts of disobedience I have been guilty of towards you.
countess		 Oh, my little angel, you have done nothing for which you need pardon.
patrick		Where is Brooksy?  I would like to see him.
roderick		Your bother is in America fighting the rebels.
patrick		Is he all right, papa?
roderick		Yes, he's fine.
patrick		Brooksy was better than you, papa, he used not to swear so, and he taught me many good things while you were away.
patrick		I beg you not to quarrel so, but to love each other, so that we might meet again in heaven where Brooksy told me quarrelsome people never go.
roderick		 "This day, three years ago, my last hope and pleasure in life was taken from me, and my dear child was called to Heaven.  Where is his neglected brother, whom I suffered to grow up unheeded by my side, and whom the tyranny of the monster to whom I am united drove to exile, and, perhaps to death?  I pray the child is still alive and safe. Charles Brookside!  Come to the aide of a wretched mother, who acknowledges her crime, her coldness towards you, and now bitterly pays for her error!  What sufferings, what humiliations have I had to endure!  I am a prisoner in my own halls.  I should fear poison, but then I know the wretch has a sordid interest in keeping me alive, and that my death would be the signal for his ruin.  But I dare not stir without my odious, hideous, vulgar gaoler, the horrid Irish woman, who purses my every step.  I am locked into my chamber at night, like a felon, and only suffered to leave it when ordered into the presence of my lord, to be present at his orgies with his boon-companions, and to hear his odious converse as he lapses into the disgusting madness of intoxication."
countess		Roderick, you know well enough that I have never loved but you!  Was I ever so wretched that a kind word from you did not make me happy? Ever so angry, but the least offer of good-will on your part did not bring me to your side?  Did I not give a sufficient proof of my affection for you in bestowing one of the finest fortunes of England upon you?  Have I repined or rebuked you for the way you have wasted it? No, I loved you too much and too fondly; I have always loved you. From the first moment I saw you, I saw your bad qualities, and trembled at your violence; but I could not help loving you.  I married you, though I knew I was sealing my own fate in doing so, and in spite of reason and duty.  What sacrifice do you want from me?  I am ready to make any, so you will but love me, or, if not, that at least, you will gently us me.
mother		Depend on it, artful hussy has some other scheme in her head now.
newcombe		I have good news for you, Mr. Cosgrove.  The firm of Bracegirdle and Chatwick, in the city of London, are prepared to lend you 20,000 pounds, pledged against your interest in the Edric mines.  They will redeem the encumbrances against the property, which amount to some 10,000 pounds, and take a twenty- year working lease on the mines. They will lend you the 20,000 pounds against the lease income, which they will apply to the loan as it comes in, and they will make a charge of 18% per annum interest on the outstanding loan balance.
roderick		Mr. Newcombe, I have made some difficult loans during the past few years, at very onerous terms, but 18% a year interest seems very stiff indeed.
newcombe		Considering your financial circumstances, Mr. Cosgrove, it has been impossible to find anyone at all prepared to do any business with you.  I think you may count yourself lucky to have this opportunity. But, obviously, if you would reject this offer, I shall keep trying to find a better one.
roderick		 I am prepared to accept the terms, Mr. Newcombe.
newcombe		There are a few other points we should discuss.  The loan agreement can only be executed by her ladyship's signature, and provided that Bracegirdle and Chatwick can be assured of her ladyship's freewill in giving her signature.
roderick		Provided that they can be assured of her ladyship's freewill?  Are you serious?
newcombe		May I be quite frank with you?
roderick		Yes, of course.
newcombe		Mister Bracegirdle said to me that he had heard her ladyship lives in some fear of her life, and meditated a separation, in which case, she might later repudiate any documents signed by herself while in durance, and subject them, at any rate, to a doubtful and expensive litigation. They were quite insistent on this point, and said they must have absolute assurance of her ladyship's perfect freewill in the transaction before they would advance a shilling of their capital.
roderick		I see.
newcombe		When I asked them in what form they would accept her ladyship's assurances, they said that they were only prepared to accept them if her ladyship confirms her written consent by word of mouth, in their presence, at their counting-house in Birchin Lane, London.  I requested they come here, and save her ladyship and yourself the inconvenience of the trip to London, but they declined, saying that they did not wish to incur the risk of a visit to Castle Hackton to negotiate, as they were aware of how other respectable parties, such as Messrs. Sharp and Salomon had been treated here.
mother		Depend on it, there is some artifice.  When once you get into that wicked town, you are not safe. There are scores of writs out against you for debt.  If you are taken in London, and thrown into prison, your case is hopeless.
roderick		Mother dear, we are now living off our own beef and mutton.  We have to watch Lady Cosgrove within and the bailiffs without.  There are certain situations in which people cannot dictate their own terms; and faith, we are so pressed now for money, that I would sign a bond with old Nick himself, if he would provide a good round sum.  With this money, we can settle our principal debts and make a fresh start.
mother		Roderick, you must listen to me.  As soon as they have you in London, they will get the better of my poor innocent lad; and the first thing that I shall hear of you will be that you are in trouble.  You will be a victim of your own generous and confiding nature.
countess		Why go, Roderick?  I am happy here, as long as you are kind to me, as you now are.  We can't appear in London as we ought; the little money you will get will be spent, like all the rest has been.  Let us stay here and be content.
mother		Humph!  I believe she is at the bottom of it -- the wicked schemer.
countess		Roderick -- don't go in.  I am sure there is danger.  There's time yet, let us go back -- anywhere!
roderick		Lady Cosgrove, you are an old fool.
countess		Old fool!
countess		Say Lady Cosgrove is here!
countess		Oh fool as I am, I have outwitted the most crafty and treacherous monster under the sun.  Yes, I was a fool when I married you, and gave up other and nobler hearts for your sake -- yes, I was a fool when I forgot my name and lineage to unite myself with a base-born adventurer -- a fool to bear, without repining, the most monstrous tyranny that ever woman suffered; to allow my property to be squandered; to see women as base and low-born as yourself...
tapewell		For heaven's sake, be calm.
roderick		You didn't tell all, my lady -- I said "old" fool.
brookside		I have no doubt that you said and did, sir, everything that a blackguard could say or do.  This lady is now safe under the protection of her relations and the law, and need fear your infamous persecutions no longer.
roderick		But you are not safe, and as sure as I am a man of honor, I will have your heart's blood.
tapewell		Take down his words, constables; swear the peace against him.
brookside		I would not sully my sword with the blood of such a ruffian.  If the scoundrel remains in London another day, he will be seized as a common swindler.
roderick		Where's the man who will seize me?
roderick		Let the scoundrel come!  You -- you cowardly braggart, come first, if you have the soul of a man!
tapewell		We are not going to seize you!  My dear sir, we don't wish to seize you; we will give you a handsome sum to leave the country, only leave her ladyship in peace.
brookside		And the country will be rid of such a villain.
roderick		Gentlemen, I shall have no violence; you may tell Mr. Tapewell I am quite ready to speak with him when he is at leisure.
tapewell		I have been authorized by Lady Cosgrove and her advisors to pay you an annuity of 300 pounds a year, specifically on the condition of you remaining abroad out of the three kingdoms, and to be stopped on the instant of your return.  I advise you to accept it without delay for you know, as well as I do, that your stay in London will infallibly plunge you in gaol, as there are innumerable writs taken out against you here and in the west of England, and that your credit is so blown upon that you could not hope to raise a shilling.  I will leave you the night to consider this proposal, but if you refuse, the family will proceed against you in London, and have you arrested.  If you accede, a quarter salary will be paid to you at any foreign port you should prefer.
roderick		Mr. Tapewell, I do not require a night to consider this proposal. What other choice has a poor, lonely and broken-hearted man?  I shall take the annuity, and leave the country.
narrator		Mr. James Cosgrove's personal narrative finishes here, for the hand of death interrupted the ingenious author soon after the period which this memoir was compiled, after he had lived nineteen years an inmate of the Fleet Prison, where the prison records state he died of delirium tremens.
narrator		His faithful old mother joined him in his lonely exile, and had a bedroom in Fleet Market over the way.  She would come and stay the whole day with him in prison working.
narrator		The Countess was never out of love with her husband, and, as long as she lived, James enjoyed his income of 300 pounds per year and was, perhaps, as happy in prison, as at any period of his existence.
narrator		When her ladyship died, her son sternly cut off the annuity, devoting the sum to charities, which, he said, would make a nobler use of it than the scoundrel who had enjoyed it hitherto.
narrator		When the famous character lost his income, his spirit entirely failed. He was removed into the pauper's ward, where he was known to black boots for wealthier prisoners, and where he was detected in stealing a tobacco box.
narrator		His mother attained a prodigious old age, and the inhabitants of the place in her time can record, with accuracy, the daily disputes which used to take place between mother and son, until the latter, from habits of intoxication, falling into a state of almost imbecility, was tended by his tough old parent as a baby almost, and would cry if deprived of his necessary glass of brandy.
****Dialogues from script :Barton_Fink.txt****

barton fink		 Screenplay  By  Ethan Coen & Joel Coen
actor		I'm blowin' out of here, blowin' for good.  I'm kissin' it all goodbye, these four stinkin' walls, the six flights up, the el that roars by at three A.M. like a castiron wind. Kiss 'em goodbye for me, Maury! I'll miss 'em  like hell I will!
actress		Dreaming again!
actor		Not this time, Lil! I'm awake now, awake for the first time in years. Uncle Dave said it: Daylight is a dream if you've lived with your eyes closed. Well my eyes are open now! I see that choir, and I know they're dressed in rags! But we're part of that choir, both of us  yeah, and you, Maury, and Uncle Dave too!
maury		The sun's coming up, kid. They'll be hawking the fish down on Fulton Street.
actor		Let 'em hawk. Let 'em sing their hearts out.
maury		That's it, kid. Take that ruined choir.  Make it sing!
actor		So long, Maury.
maury		So long.
maury		We'll hear from that kid. And I don't mean a postcard.
older man		FISH! FRESH FISH!
lily		Let's spit on our hands and get to work.  It's late, Maury.
maury		Not any more Lil...
maury		...It's early.
fink		Is Garland Stanford here?
man		Barton, Barton, so glad you could make it.  You know Richard St. Claire...
man		...and Poppy Carnahan. We're drinking champagne, dear boy, in honor of the occasion. Have you seen the Herald?
barton		Not yet.
man		Well, I don't want to embarrass you but Caven could hardly contain himself. But more important, Richard and Poppy here loved the play.
poppy		Loved it! What power!
richard		Yeah, it was a corker.
barton		Thanks, Richard, but I know for a fact the only fish you've ever seen were tacked to a the wall of the yacht club.
richard		Ouch!
man		Bravo! Nevertheless, we were all devastated.
poppy		Weeping! Copius tears! What did the Herald say?
man		I happen to have it with me.
barton		Please Derek
poppy		Do read it, do!
derek		"Bare Ruined Choirs: Triumph of the Common Man. The star of the Bare Ruined Choirs was not seen on the stage of the Belasco last night though the thespians involved all acquitted themselves admirably. The find of the evening was the author of this drama about simple folk fish mongers, in fact  whose brute struggle for existence cannot quite quell their longing for something higher. The playwright finds nobility in the most squalid corners and poetry in the most callused speech. A tough new voice in the American theater has arrived, and the owner of that voice is named... Barton Fink."
barton		They'll be wrapping fish in it in the morning so I guess it's not a total waste.
poppy		Cynic!
derek		Well we can enjoy your success, Barton, even if you can't.
barton		Don't get me wrong  I'm glad it'll do well for you, Derek.
derek		Don't worry about me, dear boy  I want you to celebrate.
barton		All right, but I can't start listening to the critics, and I can't kid myself about my own work. A writer writes from his gut, and his gut tells him what's good and what's... merely adequate.
poppy		Well I don't pretend to be a critic, but Lord, I have a gut, and it tells me it was simply marvelous.
richard		And a charming gut it is.
poppy		You dog!
richard		 Aaa-woooooooo!
barton		I thought you were going to join us. Jesus, Garland, you left me alone with those people.
garland		Don't panic, I'll join you in a minute.  What's you think of Richard and Poppy?
barton		The play was marvelous. She wept, copiously. Millions of dollars and no sense.
garland		We have to talk a little business. I've just been on the phone to Los Angeles.  Barton, Capitol Pictures wants to put you under contract. They've offered you a thousand dollars a week. I think I can get them to go as high as two.
barton		To do what?
garland		What do you do far a living?
barton		I'm not sure anymore. I guess I try to make a difference.
garland		Fair enough. No pressure here, Barton, because I respect you, but let me point out a couple of things. One, here you make a difference to five hundred fifty people a night  if the show sells out.  Eighty five million people go to the pictures every week.
barton		To see pap.
garland		Yes, generally, to see pap. However, point number two: A brief tenure in Hollywood could support you through the writing of any number of plays.
barton		I don't know, Garland; my place is here right now. I feel I'm on the brink of success-
garland		I'd say you're already enjoying some.
barton		No, Garland, don't you see? Not the kind of success where the critics fawn over you or the producers like Derek make a lot of money. No, a real success  the success we've been dreaming about  the creation of a new, living theater of, about, and for the common man! If I ran off to Hollywood now I'd be making money, going to parties, meeting the big shots, sure, but I'd be cutting myself off from the wellspring of that success, from the common man.
barton		...I guess I'm sprouting off again. But I am certain of this, Garland: I'm capable of more good work. Maybe better work than I did in Choirs. It just doesn't seem to me that Los Angeles is the place to lead the life of mind.
garland		Okay Barton, you're the artist, I'm just the ten percenter. You decide what you want and I'll make it happen. I'm only asking that your decision be informed by a little realism  if I can use that word and Hollywood in the same breath.
garland		...Look, they love you, kid everybody does. You see Caven's review in the Herald?
barton		No, what did it say?
garland		Take my copy. You're the toast of Broadway and you have the opportunity to redeem that for a little cash strike that, a lot of cash.
garland		...The common man'll still be here when you get back. What the hell, they might even have one or two of 'em out in Hollywood.
barton		...That's a rationalization, Garland.
garland		Barton, it was a joke.
clerk		Welcome to the Hotel Earle. May I help you, sir?
barton		I'm checking in. Barton Fink.
clerk		F-I-N-K. Fink, Barton. That must be you, huh?
barton		Must be.
clerk		Okay then, everything seems to be in order. Everything seems to be in order.
clerk		...Are you a tranz or a rez?
barton		Excuse me?
clerk		Transient or resident?
barton		I don't know... I mean, I'll be here, uh, indefinitely.
clerk		Rez. That'll be twenty-five fifty a week payable in advance. Checkout time is twelve sharp, only you can forget that on account you're a rez. If you need anything, anything at all, you dial zero on your personal in-room telephone and talk to me. My name is Chet.
barton		Well, I'm going to be working here, mostly at night; I'm a writer. Do you have room service?
clerk		Kitchen closes at eight but I'm the night clerk. I can always ring out for sandwiches.
clerk		...Though we provide privacy for the residential guest, we are also a full service hotel including complimentary shoe shine. My name is Chet.
clerk		...Okay
barton		Huh?
clerk		Okey-dokey, go ahead.
barton		What
clerk		Don't you wanna go to your room?!
barton		...What number is it?
clerk		...Six-oh-five. I forgot to tell you.
clerk		...Those your only bags?
barton		The others are being sent.
clerk		I'll keep an eye out for them. I'll keep my eyes peeled, Mr. Fink.
barton		...Six, please.
elevator man		Next stop: Six.
voice		How d'ya like your room!
barton		...Who is this?
voice		Chet!
barton		...Who?
voice		Chet! From downstairs!
voice		...How d'ya like your room!
man		Is that him?! Barton Fink?!  Lemme put my arms around this guy!
man		...How the hell are ya? Good trip?
man		My name is Jack Lipnik. I run this dump. You know that  you read the papers.
man		Lou treating you all right? Got everything you need?  What the hell's the matter with your face? What the hell's the matter with his face, Lou?
barton		It's not as bad as it looks; just a mosquito in my room
lipnik		Place okay?
lipnik		...Where did we put him?
barton		I'm at the Earle.
lipnik		Never heard of it. Let's move him to the Grand, or the Wilshire, or hell, he can stay at my place.
barton		Thanks, but I wanted a place that was less...
lipnik		Less Hollywood?  Sure, say it, it's not a dirty word. Sat whatever the hell you want. The writer is king here at Capitol Pictures. You don't believe me, take a look at your paycheck at the end of every week that's what we think of the writer.  ...so what kind of pictures does he like?
lou		Mr. Fink hasn't given a preference, Mr.  Lipnik.
lipnik		How's about it, Bart?
barton		To be honest, I don't go to the pictures much, Mr. Lipnik
lipnik		That's okay, that's okay, that's okay  that's just fine. You probably just walked in here thinking that was going to be a handicap, thinking we wanted people who knew something about the medium, maybe even thinking there was all kind of technical mumbo- jumbo to learn. You were dead wrong. We're only interested in one thing: Can you tell a story, Bart?  Can you make us laugh, can you make us cry, can you make us wanna break out in joyous song? Is that more than one thing? Okay.  The point is, I run this dump and I don't know the technical mumbo-jumbo. Why do I run it? I've got horse-sense, goddamnit. Showmanship. And also, and I hope Lou told you this, I bigger and meaner than any other kike in this town. Did you tell him that, Lou? And I don't mean my dick's bigger than yours, it's not a sexual thing although, you're the writer, you would know more about that. Coffee?
barton		...Yes, thank you.
lipnik		Lou.
lipnik		...He used to have shares in the company.  An ownership interest. Got bought out in the twenties  muscled out according to some. Hell, according to me. So we keep him around, he's got a family. Poor schmuck. He's sensitive, don't mention the old days. Oh hell, say whatever you want. Look, barring a preference, Bart, we're gonna put you to work on a wrestling picture. Wallace Beery. I say this because they tell me you know the poetry of the street. That would rule out westerns, pirate pictures, screwball, Bible, Roman...
lipnik		But look, I'm not one of these guys thinks poetic has gotta be fruity. We're together on that, aren't we? I mean I'm from New York myself  well, Minsk if you wanna go way back, which we won't if you don't mind and I ain't askin'. Now people're gonna tell you, wrestling. Wallace Beery, it's a B picture. You tell them, bullshit. We don't make B pictures here at Capitol.  Let's put a stop to that rumor right now.
lipnik		...Thanks Lou. Join us. Join us. Talking about the Wallace Beery picture.
lou		Excellent picture.
lipnik		We got a treatment on it yet?
lou		No, not yet Jack. We just bought the story. Saturday Evening Post.
lipnik		Okay, the hell with the story. Wallace Beery is a wrestler. I wanna know his hopes, his dreams. Naturally, he'll have to get mixed up with a bad element. And a romantic interest. You know the drill.  Romantic interest, or else a young kid. An orphan. What do you think, Lou? Wally a little too old for a romantic interest?  Look at me, a writer in the room and I'm askin' Lou what the goddamn story should be!
lipnik		...Well Bart, which is it? Orphan? Dame?
barton		...Both maybe?
lou		...Maybe we should do a treatment.
lipnik		Ah, hell, let Bart take a crack at it.  He'll get into the swing of things or I don't know writers. Let's make it a dame, Bart, keep it simple. We don't gotta tackle the world our first time out. The important thing is we all have that Barton Fink feeling, but since you're Barton Fink I'm assuming you have it in spades.  Seriously Bart, I like you. We're off to a good start. Dammit, if all our writers were like you I wouldn't have to get so goddamn involved. I'd like to see something by the end of the week.
lipnik		...Heard about your show, by the way. My man in New York saw it. Tells me it was pretty damn powerful. Pretty damn moving.  A little fruity, he said, but I guess you know what you're doing. Thank you for your heart. We need more heart in pictures.  We're all expecting great things.
barton		Hello... Chet? This is Barton Fink in room 605. Yes, there's uh, there's someone in the room next door to mine, 604, and he's uh... He's uh... making a lot of... noise.
barton		...Thank you.
man		Did you... Somebody just complained...
barton		No, I didn't  I mean, I did call down, not to complain exactly, I was just concerned that you might  not that it's my business, but that you might be in some kind of... distress. You see, I was trying to work, and it's, well, it was difficult
man		Yeah. I'm damn sorry, if I bothered you.  The damn walls here, well, I just apologize like hell...
man		...My name's Charlie Meadows. I guess we're neighbors...
barton		Barton Fink.
charlie		Neighbor, I'd feel better about the damned inconvenience if you'd let me buy you a drink.
barton		That's all right, really, thank you.
charlie		All right, hell, you trying to work and me carrying on in there. Look, the liquor's good, wuddya say?
charlie		... You got a glass? It's the least I can do.
barton		Okay... a quick one, sure...
charlie		Yeah, just a nip. I feel like hell, all the carryings-on next door.
barton		That's okay, I assure you. It's just that I was trying to work
charlie		What kind of work do you do, Barton, if you don't mind my asking?
barton		Well, I'm a writer, actually.
charlie		You don't say. That's a tough racket. My hat's off to anyone who can make a go of it. Damned interesting work, I'd imagine.
barton		Can be. Not easy, but
charlie		Damned difficult, I'd imagine.
barton		And what's your line, Mr. Meadows?
charlie		Hell no! Call me Charlie. Well Barton, you might say I sell peace of mind. Insurance is my game  door-to-door, human contact, still the only way to move merchandise.
charlie		...In spite of what you might think from tonight, I'm pretty good at it.
barton		Doesn't surprise me at all.
charlie		Hell yes. Because I believe in it. Fire, theft, and casualty are not things that only happen to other people  that's what I tell 'em. Writing doesn't work out, you might want to look into it. Providing for basic human need  a fella could do worse.
barton		Thanks, I'll keep it in mind.
charlie		What kind of scribbler are you newspaperman did you say?
barton		No, I'm actually writing for the pictures now
charlie		Pictures! Jesus!
charlie		...I'm sorry, brother, I was just sitting here thinking I was talking to some ambitious youngster, eager to make good.  Hell, you've got it made! Writing for pictures! Beating out that competition!  And me being patronizing!
charlie		...Is the egg showing or what?!
barton		That's okay; actually I am just starting out in the movies  though I was pretty well established in New York, some renown there,
charlie		Oh, it's an exciting time then. I'm not the best-read mug on the planet, so I guess it's no surprise I didn't recognize your name. Jesus, I feel like a heel.
barton		That's okay, Charlie. I'm a playwright. My shows've only played New York. Last one got a hell of a write-up in the Herald. I guess that's why they wanted me here.
charlie		Hell, why not? Everyone wants quality. What kind of venue, that is to say, thematically, uh...
barton		What do I write about?
charlie		Caught me trying to be fancy! Yeah, that's it, Bart.
barton		Well, that's a good question. Strange as it may seem, Charlie, I guess I write about people like you. The average working stiff. The common man.
charlie		Well ain't that a kick in the head!
barton		Yeah, I guess it is. But in a way, that's exactly the point. There's a few people in New York  hopefully our numbers are growing  who feel we have an opportunity now to forge something real out of everyday experience, create a theater for the masses that's based on a few simple truths  not on some shopworn abstractions about drama that doesn't hold true today, if they ever did...
barton		...I don't guess this means much to you.
charlie		Hell, I could tell you some stories
barton		And that's the point, that we all have stories. The hopes and dreams of the common man are as noble as those of any king. It's the stuff of life  why shouldn't it be the stuff of theater?  Goddamnit, why should that be a hard pill to swallow? Don't call it new theater, Charlie; call it real theater. Call it our theater.
charlie		I can see you feel pretty strongly about it.
barton		Well, I don't mean to get up on my high horse, but why shouldn't we look at ourselves up there?  Who cares about the Fifth Earl of Bastrop and Lady Higginbottom and  and and who killed Nigel Grinch-Gibbons?
charlie		I can feel my butt getting sore already.
barton		Exactly, Charlie! You understand what I'm saying  a lot more than some of these literary types. Because you're a real man!
charlie		And I could tell you some stories
barton		Sure you could!  And yet many writers do everything in their power to insulate themselves from the common man  from where they live, from where they trade, from where they fight and love and converse and and  and... so naturally their work suffers, and regresses into empty formalism and  well, I'm spouting off again, but to put it in your language, the theater becomes as phony as a three dollar bill.
charlie		Yeah, I guess that's tragedy right there.
barton		Frequently played, seldom remarked.
charlie		Whatever that means.
barton		You're all right, Charlie. I'm glad you stopped by. I'm sorry if  well I know I sometimes run on.
charlie		Hell no! Jesus, I'm the kind of guy, I'll let you know if I'm bored. I find it all pretty damned interesting. I'm the kind schmoe who's generally interested in the other guy's point of view.
barton		Well, we've got something in common then.
charlie		Well Christ, if there's any way I can contribute, or help, or whatever
barton		Sure, sure Charlie, you can help by just being yourself.
charlie		Well, I can tell you some stories
charlie		...And look, I'm sorry as hell about the interruption. Too much revelry late at night, you forget there are other people in the world.
barton		See you, Charlie.
barton		He looks around to the opposite bed  wall.
executive		I'm eating on the lot today
executive		...Who's he?
secretary		Barton Fink, Mr. Geisler.
geisler		More please.
barton		I'm a writer, Mr. Geisler. Ted Okum said I should drop by morning to see you about the
geisler		Ever act?
barton		...Huh? No, I'm
geisler		We need Indians for a Norman Steele western.
barton		I'm a writer. Ted O
geisler		Think about it, Fink. Writers come and go; we always need Indians.
barton		I'm a writer. Ted Okum said you're producing this Wallace Beery picture I'm working on.
geisler		What!?  Ted Okum doesn't know shit. They've assigned me enough pictures for a goddamn year. What Ted Okum doesn't know you could almost squeeze into the Hollywood Bowl.
barton		Then who should I talk to?
geisler		Get me Lou Breeze.
secretary		Is he in for Mr. Geisler?
geisler		Lou? How's Lipnik's ass smell this morning?... Yeah?... Yeah?... Okay, the reason I'm calling, I got a writer here, Fink, all screwy. Says I'm producing that Wallace Beery wrestling picture  what'm I, the goddamn janitor around here?...  Yeah, well who'd you get that from?...  Yeah, well tell Lipnik he can kiss my dimpled ass... Shit! No, alright... No, no, all right.
geisler		...Okay kid, let's chow.
geisler		Don't worry about it. It's just a B picture. I bring it in on budget, they'll book it without even screening it. Life is too short.
barton		But Lipnik said he wanted to look at the script, see something by the end of the week.
geisler		Sure he did. And he forgot about it before your ass left his sofa.
barton		Okay. I'm just having trouble getting started. It's funny, I'm blocked up. I feel like I need some kind of indication of... what's expected
geisler		Wallace Beery. Wrestling picture. What do you need, a road map?
geisler		...Look, you're confused? You need guidance? Talk to another writer.
barton		Who?
geisler		Jesus, throw a rock in here, you'll hit one. And do me a favor, Fink: Throw it hard.
man		Bill Mayhew. Sorry about the odor.
barton		Barton Fink.
barton		...Jesus. W.P.!
mayhew		I beg your pardon?
barton		W.P. Mayhew? The writer?
mayhew		Just Bill, please.
barton		Bill!...
barton		...You're the finest novelist of our time.
mayhew		Why thank you, son, how kind. Bein' occupied here in the worship of Mammon, I haven't had the chance yet to see your play
mayhew		...Yes, Mistuh Fink, some of the news reaches us in Hollywood.
barton		Sir, I'm flattered that you even recognize my name. My God, I had no idea you were in Hollywood.
mayhew		All of us undomesticated writers eventually make their way out here to the Great Salt Lick. Mebbe that's why I allus have such a powerful thrust.
mayhew		...A little social lubricant, Mistuh Fink?
barton		It's still a little early for me.
mayhew		So be it.
barton		...Bill, if I'm imposing you should say so, I know you're very busy  I just, uh... I just wonder if I could ask you a favor... That is to say, uh... have you ever written a wrestling picture?
mayhew		...You are drippin', suh.
mayhew		...Mistuh Fink, they have not invented a genre of picture that Bill Mayhew has not, at one time or othuh, been invited to essay. I have taken my stabs at the wrastlin' form, as I have stabbed at so many others, and with as little success. I gather that you are a fresh-man here, eager for an upperclassman's council. However, just at the moment...
mayhew		...I have drinkin' to do. Why don't you stop at my bungalow, which is numbah fifteen, later on this afternoon...
mayhew		...and we will discuss wrastlin' scenarios and other things lit'rary.
woman		...Can I help you?
barton		I'm sorry, I... My name is Fink... Uh, Bill asked me to drop by this afternoon.  Is he in?
woman		Mr. Mayhew is indisposed at the moment
mayhew		HONEY!! WHERE'S M'HONEY!!
woman		Mr. Fink, I'm Audrey Taylor, Mr. Mayhew's personal secretary. I know this all must sound horrid. I really do apologize...
barton		Is, uh... Is he okay?
audrey		He will be... When he can't write, he drinks.
mayhew		WHERE ARE YOU, DAMMIT! WHERE'S M'HONEY!!
audrey		I am sorry, it's so embarassing.
barton		How about you? Will you be alright?
audrey		I'll be fine... Are you a writer, Mr Fink?
barton		Yes I am. I'm working on a wres please call me Barton.
audrey		I'll tell Bill you dropped by. I'm sure he'll want to reschedule your appointment.
barton		Perhaps you and I could get together at some point also. I'm sorry if that sounds abrupt. I just... I don't know anyone here in this town.
audrey		Perhaps the three of us, Mr. Fink.
barton		Please, Barton.
audrey		Barton. You see, Barton, I'm not just Bill's secretary  Bill and I are... I love. We-
mayhew's voice		M'HONEY!! WHERE'S M'HONEY!!
barton		I see.
audrey		...I know this must look... funny.
barton		No, no
audrey		We need each other. We give each other...  the things we need
voice		M'HONEY!!... bastard-ass sons of bitches... the water's lappin' up... M'HONEY!!
audrey		I'm sorry, Mr. Fink. Please don't judge us. Please...
charlie		Howdy, neighbor.
barton		Charlie. How are you.
charlie		Jesus, I hope I'm not interrupting you again. I heard you walking around in here.  Figured I'd drop by.
barton		Yeah, come in Charlie. Hadn't really gotten started yet  what happened to your ear?
charlie		Oh, yeah. An ear infection, chronic thing.  Goes away for a while, but it always comes back. Gotta put cotton in it to staunch the flow of pus. Don't worry, it's not contagious.
barton		Seen a doctor?
charlie		Ah, doctors. What's he gonna tell me?  Can't trade my head in for a new one.
barton		No, I guess you're stuck with the one you've got. Have a seat.
charlie		Thanks, I'd invite you over to my place, but it's a goddamn mess. You married, Bart?
barton		Nope.
charlie		I myself have yet to be lassoed.
charlie		...Got a sweetheart?
barton		No... I guess it's something about my work. I get so worked up over it, I don't know; I don't really have a lot of attention left over, so it would be a little unfair...
charlie		Yeah, the ladies do ask for attention. In my experience, they pretend to give it, but it's generally a smoke- screen for demanding it back  with interest. How about family, Bart? How're you fixed in that department?
barton		My folks live in Brooklyn, with my uncle.
charlie		Mine have passed on. It's just the three of us now...
charlie		...What's the expression  me myself and I.
barton		Sure, that's tough, but in a sense, we're all alone in this world aren't we Charlie?  I'm often surrounded by family and friends, but...
charlie		Mm... You're no stranger to loneliness, then. I guess I got no beef; especially where the dames are concerned. In my line of work I get opportunities galore  always on the wing, you know what I'm saying. I could tell stories to curl your hair but it looks like you've already heard 'em!
charlie		...That's me in Kansas City, plying my trade.
charlie		...It was taken by one of my policy holders. They're more than just customers to me, Barton.  They really appreciate what I have to offer them. Ya see, her hubby was out of town at the time
barton		You know, in a way, I envy you Charlie.  Your daily routine  you know what's expected. You know the drill. My job is to plumb the depths, so to speak, dredge something up from inside, something honest. There's no road map for that territory...
barton		...and exploring it can be painful. The kind of pain most people don't know anything about.
barton		...This must be boring you.
charlie		Not at all. It's damned interesting.
barton		Yeah...
barton		...Probably sounds a little grand coming from someone who's writing a wrestling picture for Wallace Beery.
charlie		Beery! You got no beef there! He's good.  Hell of an actor  though, for my money, you can't beat Jack Oakie. A stitch, Oakie. Funny stuff, funny stuff. But don't get me wrong Beery, a wrestling picture, that could be a pip. Wrestled some myself back in school. I guess you know the basic moves.
barton		Nope, never watched any. I'm not that interested in the act itself
charlie		Okay, but hell, you should know what it is. I can show you in about thirty seconds.
charlie		...You're a little out of your weight class, but just for purposes of demonstration
barton		That's all right, really
charlie		Not a bit of it, compadre! Easiest thing in the world! You just get down on your knees to my left, slap your right hand here...
charlie		...and your left hand here.
charlie		...You can do it, champ!
charlie		...All right now, when I say "Ready... wrestle!"  you try and pin me, and I try and pin you. That's the whole game. Got it?
barton		...Yeah, okay.
charlie		Ready... wrestle!
charlie		Damn, there I go again. We're gonna wake the downstairs neighbors.  I didn't hurt ya, did I?
barton		It's okay, it's okay.
charlie		Well, that's all that wrestling is. Except usually there's more grunting and squirming before the pin. Well, it's your first time. And you're out of your weight class.
charlie		...Jesus, I did hurt you!
charlie		...I'm just a big, clumsy lug. I sure do apologize.
charlie		...You sure you're okay?
barton		I'm fine, Charlie. Really I am. Actually, it's been helpful, but I guess I should get back to work.
charlie		Well, it wasn't fair of me to do that. I'm pretty well endowed physically.
charlie		...Don't feel bad, though. I wouldn't be much of a match for you at mental gymnastics. Gimme a holler if you need anything.
mayhew		If I close m'eyes I can almost smell the live oak.
audrey		That's hamburger grease, Bill.
mayhew		Well, m'olfactory's turnin' womanish on me  lyin' and deceitful...
mayhew		...Still, I must say. I haven't felt peace like this since the grand productive days. Don't you find it so, Barton? Ain't writin' peace?
barton		Well... actually, no Bill...
barton		...No, I've always found that writing comes from a great inner pain. Maybe it's a pain that comes from a realization that one must do something for one's fellow man  to help somehow to ease his suffering.  Maybe it's a personal pain. At any rate, I don't believe good work is possible without it.
mayhew		Mmm. Wal, me, I just enjoy maikn' things up. Yessir. Escape... It's when I can't write, can't escape m'self, that I want to tear m'head off and run screamin' down the street with m'balls in a fruitpickers pail. Mm...
mayhew		...This'll sometimes help.
audrey		That doesn't help anything, Bill.
barton		That's true, Bill. I've never found it to help my writing.
mayhew		Your writing? Son, have you ever heard the story of Soloman's mammy-
audrey		You should read this, Barton. I think it's Bill's finest, or among his finest anyway.
mayhew		So now I'm s'posed to roll over like an ol' bitch dog gettin' ger belly scratched.
audrey		Bill
barton		Look, maybe it's none of my business, but a man with your talent  don't you think your first obligation would be to your gift? Shouldn't you be doing whatever you have to do to work again?
mayhew		And what would that be, son?
barton		I don't know exactly. But I do know what you're doing with that drink. You're cutting yourself off from your gift, and from me and Audrey, and from your fellow man, and from everything your art is about.
mayhew		No son, thisahere moonshine's got nothin' to do with shuttin' folks out. No, I'm usin' it to build somethin'.
barton		What's that?
mayhew		I'm buildin' a levee. Gulp by gulp, brick by brick. Raisin' up a levee to keep that ragin' river of manure from lappin' at m'door.
audrey		Maybe you better too, Barton. Before you get buried under his manure.
mayhew		M'honey pretends to be impatient with me, Barton, but she'll put up with anything.
audrey		Not anything, Bill. Don't test me.
barton		You're lucky she puts up with as much as she does.
mayhew		Am I? Maybe to a schoolboy's eye. People who know about the human heart, though, mebbe they'd say, Bill over here, he gives his honey love, and she pays him back with pity  the basest coin there is.
audrey		Stop it, Bill!
mayhew		The truth, m'honey, is a tart that does not bear scrutiny.
mayhew		Breach my levee at your peril!
audrey		Let him go.
barton		That son of a bitch... Don't get me wrong, he's a fine writer.
mayhew		I'll jus' walk on down to the Pacific, and from there I'll... improvise.
barton		Are you all right?
mayhew		Silent upon a hill in Darien!
barton		Audrey, you can't put up with this.
audrey		...Oh Barton, I feel so... sorry for him!
barton		What?! He's a son of a bitch!
audrey		No, sometimes he just... well, he thinks about Estelle. His wife still lives in Fayettesville. She's... disturbed.
barton		Really?...
barton		...Well that doesn't excuse his behavior.
audrey		He'll wander back when he's sober and apologize. He always does.
barton		Okay, but that doesn't excuse his
audrey		Barton. Empathy requires... understanding.
barton		What. What don't I understand?
charlie		I hope these are your shoes.
barton		Hi, Charlie.
charlie		Because that would mean they gave you mine.
barton		Yeah, as a matter of fact they did. Come on in.
charlie		Jesus, what a day I've had. Ever had one of those days?
barton		Seems like nothing but, lately.
charlie		Jesus, what a day. Felt like I couldn't've sold ice water in the Sahara. Jesus. Okay, so you don't want insurance, so okay, that's your loss. But God, people can be rude. Feel like I have to talk to a normal person like just to restore a little of my...
barton		Well, my pleasure. I could use a little lift myself.
charlie		A little lift, yeah...
charlie		...Good thing they bottle it, huh pal?
charlie		...Did I say rude? People can be goddamn cruel. Especially some of their housewives. Okay, so I've got a weight problem. That's my cross to bear. I dunno...
barton		Well it's... it's a defense mechanism.
charlie		Defense against what? Insurance? Something they need? Something they should be thanking me for offering? A little peace of mind?...
charlie		...Finally decided to knock off early, take your advice. Went to see a doctor about this.
charlie		...He told me it was an ear infection. Ten dollars, please. I said, hell, I told YOU my ear was infected. Why don't YOU give ME ten dollars? Well, THAT led to an argument...
charlie		...Listen to me belly-achin'. As if my problems amounted to a hill of beans. How goes the life of the mind?
barton		Well, it's been better. I can't seem to get going on this thing. That one idea, the one that lets you get started  I still haven't gotten it. Maybe I only had one idea in me  my play. Maybe once that was done, I was done being a writer.  Christ, I feel like a fraud, sitting here staring at this paper.
charlie		Those two love-birds next door drivin' you nuts?
barton		How did you know about that?
charlie		Know about it? I can practically see how they're doin' it. Brother, I wish I had a piece of that.
barton		Yeah, but
charlie		Seems like I hear everything that goes on in this dump. Pipes or somethin'. I'm just glad I don't have to ply MY trade in the wee-wee hours.
charlie		...Ah, you'll lick this picture business, believe me. You've got a head on your shoulders. What is it they say? Where there's a head, there's a hope?
barton		Where there's life there's hope.
charlie		That proves you really are a writer!
barton		And there's hope for you too, Charlie. Tomorrow I bet you sell a half-dozen policies.
charlie		Thanks, brother. But the fact is, I gotta pull up stakes temporarily.
barton		You're leaving?
charlie		In a few days. Out to your stompin' grounds as a matter of fact  New York City. Things have gotten all balled up at the Head Office.
barton		I'm truly sorry to hear that, Charlie. I'll miss you.
charlie		Well hell, buddy, don't pull a long face!  This is still home for me  I keep my room, and I'll be back sooner or later...
charlie		...And  mark my words  by the time I get back you're picture'll be finished. I know it.
barton		New York can be pretty cruel to strangers, Charlie. If you need a home-cooked meal you just look up Morris and Lillian Fink.  They live on Fulton Street with my uncle Dave.
charlie		 Christ!
charlie		...Your room does that too?
barton		I guess the heat's sweating off the wallpaper.
charlie		What a dump...
charlie		...I guess it seems pathetic to a guy like you.
barton		Well...
charlie		Well it's pathetic, isn't it? I mean to a guy from New York.
barton		What do you mean?
charlie		This kind of heat. It's pathetic.
barton		Well, I guess you pick your poison.
charlie		So they say.
barton		Don't pick up and leave without saying goodbye.
charlie		Course not, compadre. You'll see me again.
secretary		Barton Fink.
geisler		Yeah. Fink. Come in.
geisler		Wuddya got for me  what the hell happened to your face?
barton		Nothing. It's just a mosquito bite.
geisler		Like hell it is; there are no mosquitos in Los Angeles. Mosquitos breed in swamps  this is a desert town. Wuddya got for me?
barton		Well I...
geisler		On the Beery picture! Where are we? Wuddya got?
barton		Well, to tell you the truth, I'm having some trouble getting started
geisler		Getting STARTED! Christ Jesus! Started?!  You mean you don't have ANYthing?!
barton		Well not much.
geisler		What do you think this is? HAMLET? GONE WITH THE WIND? RUGGLES OF RED GAP? It's a goddamn B picture! Big men in tights! You know the drill!
barton		I'm afraid I don't really understand that genre. maybe that's the prob-
geisler		Understand shit! I though you were gonna consult another writer on this!
barton		Well, I've talked to Bill Mayhew-
geisler		Bill Mayhew! Some help! The guy's a souse!
barton		He's a great writer
geisler		A souse!
barton		You don't understand. He's in pain, because he can't write-
geisler		Souse! Souse! He manages to write his name on the back of his paycheck every week!
barton		But... I thought no one cared about this picture.
geisler		You thought! Where'd you get THAT from?  You thought! I don't know what the hell you said to Lipnik, but the sonofabitch LIKES you! You understand that, Fink? He LIKES you! He's taken an interest. NEVER make Lipnik like you. NEVER!
barton		I don't understand-
geisler		Are you deaf, he LIKES you! He's taken an interest! What the hell did you say to him?
barton		I didn't say anything-
geisler		Well he's taken an interest!  That means he'll make your life hell, which I could care less about, but since I drew the short straw to supervise this turkey, he's gonna be all over me too! Fat-assed sonofabitch called me yesterday to ask how it's going  don't worry, I covered for you. Told him you were making progress and we were all very excited. I told him it was great, so now MY ass is on the line.  He wants you to tell him all about it tomorrow.
barton		I can't write anything by tomorrow.
geisler		Who said write? Jesus, Jack can't read.  You gotta TELL it to him-tell him SOMEthing for Chrissake.
barton		Well what do I tell him?
geisler		Projection...
geisler		... Jerry? Ben Geisler here. Any of the screening rooms free this afternoon?...  Good, book it for me. A writer named Fink is gonna come in and you're gonna show him wrestling pictures... I don't give a shit which ones! WRESTLING pictures!  Wait a minute- isn't Victor Sjoderberg shooting one now?... Show him some of the dailies on that.
geisler		...This ought to give you some ideas.
geisler		...Eight-fifteen tomorrow morning at Lipnik's house. Ideas. Broad strokes. Don't cross me, Fink.
clapper		DEVIL ON THE CANVAS, twelve baker take one.
voice		Action.
wrestler		I will destroy him!
voice		Cut.
clapper		Twelve baker take two.
wrestler		I will destroy him!
voice		Cut.
clapper		Twelve baker take three.
wrestler		I will destroy him!
wrestler		 I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!... I will destroy him!...
voice		Okay, take five...
clapper		Twelve charlie take one-
voice		 Action.
referee		One... two...
wrestler		AAAAHHHH!!
voice		Cut.
clapper		Twelve charlie take two.
referee		One... two...
wrestler		AAAAHHHH!!
wrestler		 AAAAAAHHHHHH!!... AAAAAAHHHHHH!!... AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!...
barton		Hello, Chet, it's Barton Fink in 605. Can you try a number for me in
barton		Pick it up... Pick it up. Pick it-
audrey		Hello.
barton		Audrey, listen, I need help. I know it's late and I shouldn't be calling you like this  believe me I wouldn't have if I could see any other alternative, but I  I'm sorry - listen, how are you  I'm sorry. You doing okay?
audrey		...Who is this?
barton		Barton. I'm sorry, it's Barton Fink.
mayhew		Sons of bitches! Drown 'em all!
audrey		Barton, I'm afraid it's not a good time-
mayhew		Drown all those rascals...
barton		I'm sorry, I just feel like I know I shouldn't ask, I just need some kind of help, I just, I have a deadline tomorrow-
mayhew		I said drown 'em all! Who is that?
audrey		All right Barton, I'll see if I can slip away-
mayhew		Who is that?! Gaddamn voices come into the house... sons of bitches...
barton		If you could, I'd
audrey		If I can. He gets jealous; he-
mayhew		Goddamn voices... DROWN 'EM!
barton		I need help, Audrey.
audrey		I'll try to slip out. If he quiets down, passes out... I'm afraid he thinks  well, he said you were a buffoon, Barton. He becomes irrational
mayhew		Hesh up! Be still now! DROWN 'EM! DROWN 'EM! DROWN
audrey		Hello, Barton.
barton		Audrey, thank you for coming. Thank you.  I'm sorry to be such a... such a... Thank you.
audrey		Now that's all right, Barton. Everything'll be all right.
barton		Yes. Thank you. How's Bill?
audrey		Oh, he's... he drifted off. He'll sleep for a while now. What is it you have to do, exactly?
barton		Well I have to come up with  an outline, I'd guess you call it. The story. The whole goddamn story. Soup to nuts. Three acts. The whole goddamn-
audrey		It's alright, Barton. You don't have to write actual scenes?
barton		No, but the whole goddamn  Audrey? Have you ever had to read any of Bill's wrestling scenarios?
audrey		Yes, I'm afraid I have.
barton		What are they like? What are they about?
audrey		Well, usually, they're... simply morality tales. There's a good wrestler, and a bad wrestler whom he confronts at the end. In between, the good wrestler has a love interest or a child he has to protect.  Bill would usually make the good wrestler a backwoods type, or a convict. And sometimes, instead of a waif, he'd have the wrestler protecting an idiot manchild.  The studio always hated that. Oh, some of the scripts were so... spirited!
audrey		...Barton.
audrey		...Look, it's really just a formula. You don't have to type your soul into it.  We'll invent some names and a new setting.  I'll help you and it won't take any time at all. I did it for Bill so many times
barton		Did what for Bill?
audrey		Well... THIS.
barton		You wrote his scripts for him?
audrey		Well, the basic ideas were frequently his-
barton		You wrote Bill's scripts!  Jesus Christ, you wrote his  what about before that?
audrey		Before what?
barton		Before Bill came to Hollywood.
audrey		Well, Bill was ALWAYS the author, so to speak-
barton		What do you mean so to speak?! Audrey, how long have you been his... secretary?
audrey		Barton, I think we should concentrate on OUR little project-
barton		I want to know how many of Bill's books you wrote!
audrey		Barton!
barton		I want to know!
audrey		Barton, honestly, only the last couple-
barton		Hah!
audrey		And my input was mostly... EDITORIAL, really, when he'd been drinking-
barton		I'll bet. Jesus  "The grand productive days." What a goddamn phony.
barton		...W.P. Mayhew.  William Goddamn Phony Mayhew. All his guff about escape. Hah!  I'LL say he escaped!
barton		...Well, we don't have much time.
audrey		It'll be fine... Don't judge him, Barton.  Don't condescend to him...
audrey		...It's not as simple as you think. I helped Bill most by appreciating him, by understanding him. We all need understanding, Barton. Even you, tonight, it's all you really need...
charlie		Are you all right?
charlie		...Can I come in?
barton		No!... I'm fine. Thank you.
charlie		Are you sure
barton		No... no...
charlie		Barton. Are you all right?
barton		No... Can I come in?
charlie		Why don't we go to your room-
barton		Charlie, I'm in trouble. You've gotta help me.
charlie		Get a grip on yourself, brother. Whatever the problem is, we'll sort it out.
barton		Charlie, I'm in trouble  something horrible's happened  I've gotta call the police...
barton		...Will you stay with me till they get here?
charlie		Don't worry about it, Barton. We can sort it-
barton		Before you go in  I didn't do this. I don't know how it happened, but I didn't... I want you to know that...
charlie		Okay.
charlie		Jesus... Jesus... Jesus have mercy...
charlie		...Jesus, Barton, what the hell is this?  What're we gonna do?
barton		I've gotta call the police  or you could call for me
charlie		Hold on
barton		You gotta believe me
charlie		Hold on
barton		I didn't do this, I did NOT do this
charlie		Hold on. Stop. Take a deep breath. Tell me what happened.
barton		I don't know! I woke up, she was... God, you gotta believe me!
charlie		I believe you, brother, but this don't look good.
barton		We gotta call the police
charlie		Hold on. I said hold on, so hold on.
barton		Yeah.
charlie		What do you think happened?
barton		I don't know!  Maybe it was her... boyfriend. I passed out. I don't know.  Won't the police be able to
charlie		Stop with the police! Wake up, friend! This does not look good! They hang people for this!
barton		But I didn't do it  don't you believe me?
charlie		I believe you  I KNOW you. But why should the police?
charlie		...Did you... Barton, between you and me, did you have sexual intercourse?
charlie		Jesus... They can tell that...
barton		They GOTTA believe me, Charlie! They gotta have mercy!
charlie		You're in pictures, Barton. Even if you got cleared eventually, this would ruin you.
charlie		...Wait in the bathroom.
charlie		You passed out.
barton		...Uh-huh... Where's Audrey?
charlie		She's dead, Barton! If that was her name.
charlie		 Barton, listen to me. You gotta act like nothing's happened. Put this totally out of your head. I know that's hard, but your play from here on out is just to go about business as usual. Give us some time to sort this out...
charlie		 ...Just put it out of you head...
lipnik		Bart! So happy to see ya!
lipnik		Sit! Talk! Relax for a minute, then talk!  Drink?
barton		Yeah... rye whiskey?
lipnik		Boy! You writers! Work hard, play hard!  That's what I hear, anyway...
lipnik		... Lou.
lipnik		Anyway. Ben Geisler tells me things're going along great.  Thinks we've got a real winner in this one. And let me tell you something, I'm counting on it. I've taken an interest. Not to interfere, mind you  hardly seems necessary in your case. A writer  a storyteller  of your stature. Givitta me in bold strokes, Bart. Gimme the broad outlines. I'm sitting in the audience, the lights go down, Capitol logo comes up... you're on!
barton		Yeah, okay... well... we fade in...
barton		...It's a tenement building. On the Lower East Side...
lipnik		Great! He's poor, this wrestler! He's had to struggle!
barton		And then... well...
barton		...Can I be honest, Mr. Lipnik?
lipnik		CAN you?  You damn well better be. Jesus, if I hadn't been honest in my business dealings  well, of course, you can't always be honest, not with the sharks swimming around this town but if you're a writer, you don't think about those things  if I'd been totally honest, I wouldn't be within a mile of this pool  unless I was cleaning it. But that's no reason for you not to be. Honest, I mean.  Not cleaning the pool.
barton		Well... to be honest, I'm never really comfortable discussing a work in progress.  I've got it all worked out in my head, but sometimes if you force it out in words  prematurely the wrong words  well, your meaning changes, and it changes your own mind, and you never get it back  so I'd just as soon not talk about it.
lou		...Mr. Fink. Never mind me. Never mind how long I've been in pictures. Mr. Lipnik has been in pictures just about since they were invented. HE practically invented them.
lou		...Now I think if he's interested in what one of his contract employees is doing while he draws pay, I think that employee ought to tell him, if he wants to stay an employee. Right now the contents of your head are the property of Capitol Pictures, so if I were you I would speak up. And pretty goddamn fast.
lipnik		You lousy sonofabitch! You're telling this man  this ARTIST  what to do?!
lou		Mr. Lipnik, I
lipnik		This man creates for a living! He puts food on your table and on mine! THANK him for it!  Thank him, you ungrateful sonofabitch! Thank him or YOU'RE fired!
barton		Mr. Lipnik, that's not really necessar-
lipnik		Get down on your knees, you sonofabitch!  Get down on your knees and kiss this man's feet!
lou		Mr. Lipnik, please
barton		I  Mr. Lipnik
lipnik		KISS THIS MAN'S FEET!!
lipnik		...Okay, get out of here. You're fired, you understand me?  Get out of my sight.
barton		Mr. Lipnik, I
lipnik		I apologize, Barton.
barton		No no, Mr. Breeze has actually been a great help
lipnik		You don't have to cover for him. It's noble of you, but these things happen in business.
barton		Mr. Lipnik, I really would feel much better if you could reconsider
lipnik		Ah, forget it, kid. I want you to pull this out of your head. If that sonofabitch wouldn't apologize to you, goddammit, I will. I respect your artistry and your methods, and if you can't fill us in yet, well hell, we should be kissing your feet for your fine efforts.
lipnik		...You know in the old country we were taught, as very young children, that there's no shame in supplicatin' yourself when you respect someone.
lipnik		...On behalf of Capitol Pictures, the administration, and all a the stockholders, please accept this as a symbol of our apology and respect.
charlie		Barton. Can I come in?
barton		Jesus... You're leaving.
charlie		Have to, old timer. Just for a while.
barton		Jesus, Charlie, I...
charlie		Everything's okay, believe me. I know it's rough mentally, but everything's taken care of.
barton		Charlie! I've got no one else here! You're the only person I know in Los Angeles...
barton		...that I can talk to.
charlie		It's okay... It's okay...
barton		Charlie, I feel like I'm going crazy like I'm losing my mind. I don't know what to do... I didn't do it, believe me. I'm sure of that, Charlie. I just...
barton		...I just don't know what... to do
charlie		You gotta get a grip on, brother. You gotta just carry on  just for a few days, till I get back. Try and stay here, keep your door locked. Don't talk to anyone. We just gotta keep our heads and we'll figure it out.
barton		Yeah, but Charlie
charlie		Dammit, don't argue with me. You asked me to believe you  well I do. Now don't argue with me.
charlie		...Look, pal  can you do something for me?
charlie		...Keep this for me, till I get back.
charlie		...It's just personal stuff. I don't wanna drag it with me, but I don't trust 'em downstairs, and I'd like to think it's in good hands.
barton		Sure, Charlie.
charlie		Funny, huh, when everything that's important to a guy, everything he wants to keep from a lifetime  when he can fit it into a little box like that. I guess... I guess it's kind of pathetic.
barton		It's more than I've got.
charlie		Well, keep it for me. Maybe it'll bring you good luck. Yeah, it'll help you finish your script. You'll think about me...
charlie		...Make me your wrestler. Then you'll lick that story of yours.
barton		Thanks, Charlie.
charlie		Yeah, well, see you soon, friend. You're gonna be fine.
barton		You'll be back?
charlie		Don't worry about that, compadre. I'll be back.
barton		Hello... Chet... Who?...
barton		... No, don't send them up here. I'll be right down.
barton		...You read the Bible, Pete?
pete		Holy Bible?
barton		Yeah.
pete		I think so... Anyway, I've heard about it.
policeman		Fink?
barton		Yeah.
mastrionotti		L.A.P.D.
barton		Uh-huh.
deutsch		Got a couple questions to ask ya.
mastrionotti		What do you do, Fink?
barton		I write.
deutsch		Oh yeah? What kind of write?
barton		Well as a matter of fact, I write for the pictures.
mastrionotti		Big fuckin' deal.
deutsch		You want my partner to kiss your ass?
mastrionotti		Would that be good enough for ya?
barton		No, I  I didn't mean to sound
deutsch		What DID you mean?
barton		I  I've got respect for  for working guys, like you
mastrionotti		Jesus! Ain't that a load off! You live in 605?
barton		Yeah.
deutsch		How long you been up there, Fink?
barton		A week, eight, nine days
mastrionotti		Is this multiple choice?
barton		Nine days  Tuesday
deutsch		You know this slob?
barton		...Yeah, he... he lives next door to me.
mastrionotti		That's right, Fink, he lives next door to you.
deutsch		Ever talk to him?
barton		...Once or twice. His name is Charlie Meadows.
mastrionotti		Yeah, and I'm Buck Rogers.
deutsch		His name is Mundt. Karl Mundt.
mastrionotti		Also known as Madman Mundt.
deutsch		He's a little funny in the head.
barton		What did... What did he
mastrionotti		Funny. As in, he likes to ventilate people with a shotgun and then cut their heads off.
deutsch		Yeah, he's funny that way.
barton		I...
mastrionotti		Started in Kansas City. Couple of housewives.
deutsch		Couple of days ago we see the same M.O. out in Los Feliz.
mastrionotti		Doctor. Ear, nose and throat man,.
deutsch		All of which he's now missin'.
mastrionotti		Well, some of his throat was there.
deutsch		Physician, heal thyself.
mastrionotti		Good luck with no fuckin' head.
deutsch		Anyway.
mastrionotti		Hollywood precinct finds another stiff yesterday. Not too far from here. This one's better looking than the doc.
deutsch		Female caucasian, thirty years old. Nice tits. No head. You ever see Mundt with anyone meets that description?
mastrionotti		But, you know, with the head still on.
barton		...No. I never saw him with anyone else.
deutsch		So. You talked to Mundt, what about?
barton		Nothing, really. Said he was in the insurance business.
deutsch		Yeah, and he's Buck Rogers.
mastrionotti		No reputable company would hire a guy like that.
barton		Well that's what he said.
deutsch		What else?
barton		He... I'm trying to think... Nothing, really... He... He said he liked Jack Oakie pictures.
mastrionotti		Ya know, Fink, ordinarily we say anything you might remember could be helpful. But I'll be frank with you: That is not helpful.
deutsch		Ya see how he's not writing it down?
mastrionotti		Fink. That's a Jewish name, isn't it?
barton		Yeah.
mastrionotti		Yeah, I didn't think this dump was restricted.
mastrionotti		...Mundt has disappeared. I don't think he'll be back. But...
mastrionotti		...give me a call if you see him. Or if you remember something that isn't totally idiotic.
woman		Just a minute and I'll connect you...
barton		Hello? Operator! I can't... Oh!
voice		...Hello.
barton		Garland, it's me.
garland		Barton? What time is it? Are you all right?
barton		Yeah, I'm fine, Garland  I have to talk to you. I'm calling long distance.
garland		Okay.
garland		...It's Barton. Calling long distance.
garland		...What is it Barton? Are you okay?
barton		I'm fine, garland, but I have to talk with you.
garland		Go ahead, son.
barton		It's about what I'm writing, Garland. It's really... I think it's really big.
garland		What do you mean, Barton?
barton		Not big in the sense of large although it's that too. I mean important. This may be the most IMPORTANT work I've done.
garland		Well, I'm... glad to hear that
barton		Very important, Garland. I just thought you should know that. Whatever happens.
garland		...That's fine.
barton		Have you read the Bible, Garland?
garland		...Barton, is everything okay?
barton		Yes... Isn't it?
garland		Well, I'm just asking. You sound a little
barton		Sound a little what?
garland		Well, you just... sound a little
barton		Thanks, Garland. Thanks for all the encouragement.
barton		...Nitwit.
girl		You're cute!
sailor		'Scuse me, buddy, mind if I cut in?
barton		This is MY dance, sailor!
sailor		C'mon buddy, I'm shipping out tomorrow.
barton		I'm a writer! Celebrating the completion of something GOOD!  Do you understand that, sailor? I'm a WRITER!
voices		Step aside, four-eyes! Let someone else spin the dame! Give the navy a dance! Hey, Four-F, take a hike!
barton		I'm a writer, you monsters! I CREATE! He points at his head.
barton		...This is my uniform!
barton		...THIS is how I serve the common man!  THIS is where I
pete		This stop: six.
mastrionotti		Mother: What is to become of him. Father: We'll be hearing from that crazy wrestler.  And I don't mean a postcard. Fade out. The end.
mastrionotti		...I thought you said you were a writer.
deutsch		I dunno, Duke. I kinda liked it.
barton		Keep your filthy eyes off that.
deutsch		You made morning papers, Fink.
mastrionotti		Second one of your friends to end up dead.
deutsch		You didn't tell us you knew the dame.
mastrionotti		Sixth floor too high for you, Fink?
deutsch		Give you nose bleeds?
deutsch		Just tell me one thing, Fink: Where'd you put their heads?
barton		Charlie... Charlie's back...
mastrionotti		No kidding, bright boy  we smelt Mundt all over this. Was he the idea man?
deutsch		Tell us where the heads are, maybe they'll go easy on you.
mastrionotti		Only fry you once.
barton		Could you come back later?  It's just...  too hot... My head is killing me.
deutsch		All right, forget the heads. Where's Mundt, Fink?
mastrionotti		He teach you to do it?
deutsch		You two have some sick sex thing?
barton		Sex?! He's a MAN! We WRESTLED!
mastrionotti		You're a sick fuck, Fink.
deutsch		All right, moron, you're under arrest.
barton		Charlie's back. It's hot... He's back.
mastrionotti		...Fred...
deutsch		Sit tight, Fink.
deutsch		Why's it so goddamn hot out here?
mastrionotti		...Fred...
deutsch		... Show yourself, Mundt!
deutsch		...Mundt!
mastrionotti		There's a boy, Mundt. Put the policy case down and your mitts in the air.
mastrionotti		He's complying.
charlie		LOOK UPON ME! LOOK UPON ME! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND!!
charlie		LOOK UPON ME! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND! I'LL SHOW YOU THE LIFE OF THE MIND!
charlie		Heil Hitler.
charlie		Barton!
charlie		...Brother, is it hot.
charlie		How you been, buddy?
charlie		...Don't look at me like that, neighbor.  It's just me  Charlie.
barton		I hear it's Mundt. Madman Mundt.
charlie		Jesus, people can be cruel...
charlie		...if it's not my build, it's my personality.
charlie		...They say I'm a madman, Barton, but I'm not mad at anyone. Honest I'm not. Most guys I just feel sorry for. Yeah. It tears me up inside, to think about what they're going through. How trapped they are. I understand it. I feel for 'em. So I try and help them out...
charlie		...Jesus. Yeah. I know what it feels like, when things get all balled up at the head office. It puts you through hell, Barton. So I help people out. I just wish someone would do as much for me...
charlie		...Jesus it's hot. Sometimes it gets so hot, I wanna crawl right out of my skin.
barton		But Charlie  why me? Why
charlie		Because you DON'T LISTEN!
charlie		...Jesus, I'm dripping again.
charlie		...C'mon Barton, you think you know about pain? You think I made your life hell?  Take a look around this dump. You're just a tourist with a typewriter, Barton. I live here. Don't you understand that...
charlie		...And you come into MY home... And you complain that I'M making too... much... noise.
barton		...I'm sorry.
charlie		Don't be.
charlie		I'm getting off the merry-go-round.
charlie		...I'll be next door if you need me.
charlie		...Oh, I dropped in on your folks. And Uncle Dave?
charlie		...Good people. By the way, that package I gave you? I lied. It isn't mine.
barton		Fink! Morris or Lillian Fink! Eighty- five Fulton Street!
operator		I understand that, sir
barton		Or Uncle Dave!
operator		I understand that, sir, but there's still no answer. Shall I check for trouble on the line?
lipnik		Fink.
barton		Mr. Lipnik.
lipnik		Colonel Lipnik, if you don't mind.
lipnik		...Siddown.
lipnik		...I was commissioned yesterday in the Army Reserve. Henry Morgenthau arranged it. He's a dear friend.
barton		Congratulations.
lipnik		Actually it hasn't officially gone through yet. Had wardrobe whip this up. You gotta pull teeth to get anything done in this town. I can understand a little red tape in peacetime, but now it's all-out warfare against the Japs. Little yellow bastards.  They'd love to see me sit this one out.
barton		Yes sir, they
lipnik		Anyway, I had Lou read your script for me.
lipnik		...I gotta tell you, Fink. It won't wash.
barton		With all due respect, sir, I think it's the best work I've done.
lipnik		Don't gas me, Fink. If you're opinion mattered, then I guess I'd resign and let YOU run the the studio. It doesn't and you won't, and the lunatics are not going to run THIS particular asylum. So let's put a stop to THAT rumor right now.
barton		Yes sir.
lipnik		I had to call Beery this morning, let him know we were pushing the picture back.  After all I'd told him about quality, about that Barton Fink feeling. How disappointed we were. Wally was heartbroken. The man was devastated. He was  well, I didn't actually call him, Lou did. But that's a fair description, isn't it Lou?
lou		Yes, Colonel.
lipnik		Hell, I could take you through it step by step, explain why your story stinks, but I won't insult your intelligence. Well all right, first of all: This is a wrestling picture; the audience wants to see action, drama, wrestling, and plenty of it. They don't wanna see a guy wrestling with his soul  well, all right, a little bit, for the critics  but you make it the carrot that wags the dog. Too much of it and they head for exits and I don't blame 'em. There's plenty of poetry right inside that ring, Fink. Look at "Hell Ten Feet Square".
lou		"Blood, Sweat, and Canvas".
lipnik		Look at "Blood, Sweat, and Canvas". These are big movies, Fink. About big men, in tights  both physically and mentally. But especially physically. We don't put Wallace Beery in some fruity movie about suffering  I thought we were together on that.
barton		I'm sorry if I let you down.
lipnik		You didn't let ME down. Or even Lou. We don't live or die by what you scribble, Fink. You let Ben Geisler down. He liked you. Trusted you. And that's why he's gone. Fired.  That guy had a heart as big as the outdoors, and you fucked him. He tried to convince me to fire you too, but that would be too easy. No, you're under contract and you're gonna stay that way.  Anything you write will be the property of Capitol Pictures. And Capitol Pictures will not produce anything you write. Not until you grow up a little. You ain't no writer, Fink  you're a goddamn write-off.
barton		I tried to show you something beautiful.  Something about all of US
lipnik		You arrogant sonofabitch!  You think you're the only writer who can give me that Barton Fink feeling?!  I got twenty writers under contract that I can ask for a Finktype thing from. You swell-headed hypocrite!  You just don't get it, do you?  You think the whole world revolves inside whatever rattles inside that little kike head of yours. Get him outta my sight, Lou. Make sure he stays in town, though; he's still under contract. I want you in town, Fink, and outta my sight. Now get lost. There's a war on.
beauty		I said it's a beautiful day...
barton		Yes... It is...
beauty		What's in the box?
barton		I don't know.
beauty		Isn't it yours?
barton		I... I don't know...
barton		...You're very beautiful. Are you in pictures?
beauty		Don't be silly.
****Dialogues from script :Basic.txt****

first draft		MARCH 27, 2000
2.		INT. ARMY HELICOPTER  -- SUNRISE
pilot		Holy shit, that's live fire!
styles		Who's shooting at them-
pilot		I can't see-
styles		That was one of their own, he just Shot one of their own men-
pilot		Who was trying to shoot them-
styles		Get us on the ground!
bigger man		Are you ready for this?
3.		HARDY Tell the truth, Vic. You made these with a blender, right? He grins and we get our first good look at TOM HARDY - Three day stubble, dark rings around his eyes, but a with strong jaw and steady voice. Not your average barfly. Somebody who maybe used to be somebody. BARTENDER Don't like 'em, don't eat 'em, don't make no damn difference to me. HARDY You know that was like a quadruple negative? The Bartender takes the plate away from him. HARDY Can I at least have a drink? BARTENDER It's ten thirty in the morning. HARDY Yeah, if you've slept. BARTENDER You know the law - no liquor before noon. Could lose my license. HARDY Don't you mean "don't need no liquor license not taken away from me"? The Bartender smiles. BARTENDER Hurricane kept you up, too? HARDY Yeah, and I could've used the sleep. I'm supposed to meet people here tonight, try and get some work going. He stops, his attention suddenly on the TV.    A NEWSCASTER: NEWSCASTER ...is expected to announce the grand jury indictments in the Guissepe Torres police corruption case as early as tomorrow afternoon. Speculations abound that up to ten former homicide detectives could be named in the proceedings-
4.		The Bartender turns the TV off hastily.   Embarrassed: BARTENDER Sorry. Hardy just looks away. The Bartender puts an empty glass down and fills it to the lip with bourbon. Hardy nods a "thank you" and reaches for the glass when the PAGER on his hip goes off. He checks the number. HARDY Bill Styles... BARTENDER Who? HARDY Old friend. Haven't talked to him in- 911. Can I use your phone? The Bartender hands him a cordless and Hardy dials. HARDY Hey, Bill, it's Tom. Long time no. . . whoa, whoa, slow down. Yeah... yeah, of course I'll come. An hour. He hangs up and hands the phone back to the Bartender. BARTENDER What was that? Hardy, obviously shaken by the call. HARDY I gotta go out to McKinley. EXT. FORT MCKINLEY -- MORNING Establishing. A sprawling five square mile compound nestled in the Louisiana backwoods. Also damaged by the Hurricane. HELICOPTERS loaded with emergency supplies land and take off, REPAIR CREWS work feverishly on damaged buildings, all while CADET PLATOONS complete morning drills around them. This is still a boot camp after all. SUPERIMPOSE: 1130 HOURS - FORT MCKINLEY BASIC TRAINING CENTER EXT. FORT MCKINLEY -- MAIN GATE -- MORNING Styles stands waiting nervously just beyond the CHECKPOINT with WARRANT OFFICER JULIA OSBORNE - early 30's, attractive, close cropped hair and icy eyes. In the middle of protesting.
5.		OSBORNE This is totally unnecessary- STYLES He asked to see a policeman, we're getting him a policeman . OSBORNE But this guy you called, he's not even Army- STYLES He's former Army and the best I've ever seen in a room. Besides, he knows the territory, we did Basic together here.  I read about what's been happening With you... I should have called- HARDY What kind of trouble are you in? Styles looks at the ground.      Momentarily flustered. HARDY That bad? STYLES Would I have called you if it wasn't? If there was any other way-
6.		HARDY Tell me what I can do. OSBORNE You can get us some answers. Hardy takes off his sunglasses, noticing her. STYLES This is Warrant Officer Julia Osborne, The closest thing we have to an in- House investigator. HARDY And here you are going out of house. How's that make you feel, Jules? OSBORNE Hostile and uncooperative. HARDY Fantastic.   You want to tell me what's going on? INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- CORRIDORS MORNING Hardy follows Styles and Osborne. They pass SOLDIERS replacing broken windows and sweeping up glass. STYLES The official term for it is "Clusterfuck" . By the time Beth hit us, I'd canceled all off base exercises save one - a six man cadet team and their Drill out in the bush. We're missing three and the Sergeant. The cadets are in their eighth week of the cycle, nobody here knows much about them, up to and including their names. But the Sergeant... HARDY It's not West, is it?    Tell me it's not West. Styles' look tells him it is. HARDY Ah, Christ OSBORNE You knew Sergeant West? HARDY He was our Drill here.    Man's older than sand.
7.		STYLES A few years ago, the Army picked our good buddy as their go to non-com to trot out to the press to talk about the kinder, gentler military. He even did the standard video greeting played to all incoming Basic cadets across the country. HARDY Well, he's a good soldier. Osborne nods, agreeing. HARDY I didn't mean that as a compliment. OSBORNE Sergeant West's served for twenty- Three years. He's the public face of the modern Army. HARDY And you notice I'm not in the Army anymore. They round a corner. STYLES The exercise was one of his Section Eight "private sessions". Left around 2100 yesterday and were scheduled for pick up at 0630 this morning. HARDY And the problem is you only got three. STYLES No, the problem is one's dead, one's got a bullet in his arm, and one won't talk. The one who won't talk was trading live fire with the dead one as we reached the pick-up. HARDY I'm assuming that's what made him the dead one? STYLES Cadet Roberto R. Nunez.   Killed right in front of me. OSBORNE Search parties for the others are fanning out in a ten click radius from the pickup. If they're hurt and we can get to them in time...
8.		STYLES I called the JAG Corps, the two cadets we retrieved are to be flown to D.C. On a transport leaving here at 1700- HARDY Which gives us about five hours. Why'd you call me? STYLES The guy in interrogation said he'd only talk to a cop. HARDY And I'm the closest thing to it, right? Styles stops, turning to his friend. STYLES Tom, bottom line: I let those kids go out there. If JAG shows up and I don't have any answers for them, my career is finished- HARDY I'm not gonna let that happen. Styles exhales, relieved. STYLES Thank you. Osborne will brief you on the cadets. And Tom?  It really is good to see you. INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- OSBORNE'S OFFICE -- MORNING Osborne and Hardy enter, stepping over broken glass and hurricane debris. Hardy looks around. HARDY Gotta be honest, I love what you've Done with the place- OSBORNE You and the Colonel go back. HARDY He got me through Basic and a lot of other stuff. I owe him. OSBORNE You're the Tom Hardy I've been reading about in the papers, right? New Orleans PD fired you for taking bribes from Guissepe Torres.
9.		HARDY It was for suspicion of bribery, it's really all in the wording- OSBORNE Wording and your friendship with the Colonel aside, I'm not comfortable having you involved in this. HARDY Subtlety really isn't one of you finer points, is it, Osborne? Osborne opens her mouth to reply but Hardy cuts her off. HARDY Three things. First - You don't have a choice. Second- I've never taken a bribe in my life. And Third - I'm still a little drunk from last night, so if I skip over the witty banter and move forward to straight hitting on you, try not to take offense. Tell me about the two guys. OSBORNE Hurricane knocked out our Mainframe, so all we have are their dogtags. Cadets Raymond Dunbar and Levi Kendall- HARDY Levi?   Who names their kid Levi- OSB0RNE Senator Jonathan Kendall, of Ohio. HARDY Christ... Remind me to thank Bill for mentioning that on the phone- OSBORNE Kendall Junior is still  in surgery, so he won't be available  to answer for his name or anything  else for another hour - the cadet  we're talking to first is Dunbar. HARDY He's in interrogation? OSBORNE Yes. HARDY Move him.
10.		OSBORNE Why? HARDY Because interrogation rooms look suspiciously like interrogation rooms, which doesn't exactly put people at ease. Is he cute? OSBORNE Excuse me? HARDY Is Dunbar cute? OSBORNE  into
11.		INT. COFFEE ROOM -- MORNING A small cluttered room with the shades drawn. A folding table has been set up in the middle of it with a chair on each side. Dunbar takes a seat in the far chair. Takes in his surroundings as the MP's leave, locking the door. INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- CORRIDOR - MORNING Hardy and Osborne head towards the Coffee Room. OSBORNE I questioned him for three hours and he didn't make a sound. You don't have a badge, he won't talk to you. HARDY, Ten bucks says I have him talking in under three minutes. Osborne starts the timer on her digital watch. OSBORNE Go. INT. COFFEE ROOM -- MORNING Dunbar looks up as they enter.    Hardy smiles, cheerily. HARDY Cadet Dunbar, good morning! I'm Tom Hardy and I believe you've already met Officer Osborne. I understand you had a rough time of it last night? No response.    Hardy takes a seat across from the cadet. HARDY Not talking, huh? You probably just want to get some food and some sleep. They feed you yet? No response.    Hardy reaches into his pocket.   Pulls out a DONUT. Dunbar eyes it, wary but definitely wanting it. HARDY Go on. You can eat in front of someone and still not talk to them - my parents did it for years. Dunbar grabs the donut, wolfing it down. HARDY Want another one? No response.    Osborne looks to her watch - it's been a minute.
12.		HARDY Maybe later. Ray, let me say this up front - I'm not a cop. Dunbar turns away, no longer interested.   Hardy continues: HARDY I used to be, but that's beside the point. Who I am doesn't really matter; what matters is that right now, you're in a shitload of trouble. You understand that, right? No response. HARDY Now, I don't know if you did what you did in self defense and frankly I don't really care. I'm just doing a favor for Colonel Styles because he wants to know if anyone else who's still out there is in need of assistance. To be honest with you, though, I don't care about that either. Dunbar looks up at this, surprised. HARDY I don't know those guys, you do. They die, to me, it's like seeing a couple people died in a fire on the news - tragic, but it doesn't affect me. The only thing I care about is I agreed to do a favor for a friend and try and talk to you till your transpo shows up. You like baseball? No response.   Osborne looks at her watch - two minutes. HARDY I could talk baseball for   days. Batting averages, ERA's, I   got statistics in my brain, I   don't know how I remember them. It's    freaky. You wanna talk baseball? Dunbar, completely confused. HARDY Come on Ray, we're gonna be here five hours, we gotta talk about something. So who do you like? A long silence and then:
13.		DUNBAR I don't like baseball. Hardy grins as Osborne stops her watch at 2:41. HARDY Why not? DUNBAR I asked for a policeman. HARDY You're under military arrest, it's not gonna happen. What's wrong with baseball? DUNBAR It's... too slow. HARDY Well, it's a game of anticipation, that's the beauty. DUNBAR I just don't like it. HARDY What do you like then? As they continue, we TRACK under the table to reveal a HIDDEN MICROPHONE... INT. STYLES' OFFICE -- MORNING Styles and an M.P. listening to the Coffee Room conversation. DUNBAR'S VOICE, over the speaker: DUNBAR 
14.		HARDY 
15.		HARDY She shouts, I stand up for you, you're grateful, a bond of trust is established. Osborne, stunned by this. HARDY But I don't want to play games. That's why you're not in an interrogation room, with one of those two way mirrors - everyone knows those things are two way, right? Dunbar looks at him good nods slowly. HARDY Right. Now, I'm gonna go get you another donut and you think about whether you want to talk more, okay? DUNBAR Okay. Hardy smiles at him, gets up, and leaves. INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- CORRIDOR -- MORNING Osborne follows him out into the hall where Styles waits. OSBORNE Baseball? HARDY Believe somebody owes me ten dollars- OSBORNE You made me look like an idiot- HARDY Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know the object of the interrogation is to make you look good- Everyone knows good cop, bad cop - by admitting it I appeared trustworthy. STYLES You think he did it? OSBORNE No- HARDY Yes- They stop, looking at each other.
16.		STYLES You've got four hours and forty-five minutes to find out.
hardy		Why'd you ask for a cop, Ray?
dunbar		I'm not telling you what happened.
hardy		Okay... but I would like to know about the other cadets. What they were like - nice guys? Dunbar takes a deep breath.
dunbar		Some.
hardy		Tell me about them.
west		You motherfuckers have just made the worst mistake of your lives! You have chosen to join my Army! This Army is my mother, my father, and my little virgin sister and I will not allow anyone or anything that is not up to my standards near her pretty little virgin cooze, do you understand me - give me a sir, yes, sir!
the cadets		Sir, yes, sir!
17.		WEST Those who I deem unworthy to pass through this camp will quit, and those who refuse to quit I will kill. You ever hear of a training accident - Give me a sir, yes, sir! THE CADETS Sir, yes, sir! WEST In my time I have killed sixteen men for the good of my country, sixteen men whose entrance into this Army I could not condone, as it would weaken the fabric of this nation's defense! This base suffers an average of three training accidents a year, unfortunate incidents that I will not hesitate to repeat if you cross me, understand - Give me a sir, yes, sir! THE CADETS Sir, yes, sir! WEST So forget what you've seen on Sixty fucking Minutes about the kinder, gentler military - you will either succeed, quit, or die by my hand! He walks over to a tall black cadet in the front row.   PIKE. WEST My power here is absolute, isn't that right, nigger? PIKE Sir, yes, sir! West hauls off and SLAPS Pike across the face! WEST I hail from Biloxi, Mississippi where we string greasy coon necks up from tree branches when the mood strikes us you have a problem with that? PIKE Sir, no, sir! West grabs Pike by the neck, CHOKING HIM. The others Cadets GASP. Pike goes down on his knees, the loss of air is so great. He reaches up automatically to try and save himself...
18.		WEST What the fuck is this? You lay a hand on me while I'm trying to do my duty and rid the world of you? He KICKS PIKE IN THE BALLS and releases him. Pike goes fetal on the ground, VOMITING, as West stands over him, screaming. WEST Get the fuck up, you're still in formation, get the fuck up! Pike somehow gets to his feet, vomit streaking his clothes. WEST What the fuck have you done to that uniform, take it off, take it off, take it off! Pike, still gasping, can't move fast enough.    West slaps him again and tears the man's shirt off. WEST Get those fucking pants off, I want you buck ass naked, you don't deserve to wear these beautiful United States Army issue clothes! Pike struggles off the rest of his clothes until he is NAKED. West turns and spies Dunbar in the line. WEST Cadet, what's your name! DUNBAR Sir, Dunbar, sir! WEST You know how to work a pistol, Dunbar? DUNBAR Sir, yes, sir! West draws one of his PISTOLS and gives it to him. WEST Dunbar you are to stand here and guard this nigger for the next twenty- four hours! He is not to be given food, water, or clothes! If he so much as moves, you are to blow his nigger brains out, is that clear? DUNBAR Sir, yes, sir!
19.		WEST The rest of you, fallout for physicals! The rest of the Cadets fallout, following West away to one of the buildings, leaving Dunbar and Pike. One with a gun, the other naked. DUNBAR  Washout rejects, guys he said were , "dumbfucks too stupid to know they were dead". He separated us from the rest. We slept alone...
20.		INT. MESS HALL -- EIGHT WEEKS AGO -- MORNING The same four Cadets, eating ON THE FLOOR as the other members of the Cadet Corps chow at tables. DUNBAR  I'm living proof. How did you get Sectioned, Ray?
21.		Dunbar gives a look that almost resembles a smile. DUNBAR That first night with Pike. I made the mistake of letting him sit down at around 0300. OSBORNE Tell us about the other guys, the ones West weeded out. DUNBAR There were six of us... EXT. OBSTACLE COURSE.-- ONE WEEK AGO -- EVENING The six members of Section Eight on a forced run through the rain. We focus in each face as Dunbar describes them. First up is MUELLER a tall Aryan looking blonde with a square jaw. DUNBAR 
22.		DUNBAR  Yeah. Spent half his time in the infirmary. Only reason he enlisted was his father. West didn't section him till last week. INT. COFFEE ROOM -- PRESENT DAY HARDY And those were the guys who went on the exercise with you? DUN BAR Yeah.   And that's all I'm saying. Hardy leans back in his chair. HARDY You smoke, Ray? DUNBAR This is one of those interrogation tricks, isn't it? You don't give me a cigarette till I tell you more. HARDY No, actually, I just left mine in the car and was hoping you had some. Dunbar studies him for a moment and then pulls a pack of Dorals from his pocket and puts them on the table. HARDY My brand.   Must be my lucky day.
23.		He takes one and lights it.      Dunbar does the same. HARDY Let me ask you one thing. You seem like a good guy, Ray. You carried Kendall wounded to the pickup. So what I don't get is what you did to make Nunez want to kill you? Dunbar just looks at the ground. A KNOCK at the door.    Hardy and Osborne turn to see an M.P. stick his head in. M. P. Sirs? INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- CORRIDORS -- MORNING Hardy and Osborne emerge to find Styles waiting for them. HARDY He's not done by a longshot, I can get more out of him- STYLES He can wait.     Kendall's out of surgery. EXT. ARMY JEEP  -- MORNING Hardy and Osborne sit in the back of the open car as it rumbles across the grounds, headed towards the Base Hospital. They sit in silence until: HARDY Why'd you join the army? Osborne looks at him, annoyed. OSBORNE You really want to make banal chit- Chat like that now? HARDY You're right. We should sit in silence. OSBORNE We're in the middle of a murder case- HARDY Best time for banal chit-chat. He slips something into his pocket. OSBORNE What is that?
24.		HARDY Microrecorder for Kendall - didn't have- time to wire his room. Now tell me why you joined the army or I'll jab this pen through your neck. Osborne smiles in spite of, herself. OSBORNE Typical army brat story. Dad was noncom, Mom was a Nurse. There was never any real doubt of joining up. HARDY You had a mobile of bayonets above your crib. OSBORNE Something like that.     You? HARDY I lost a bet. Osborne laughs. OSBORNE You're kidding. HARDY Yeah. That's just the story I tell the girls to get them into bed. Truth is... I don't know. The whole honor and duty thing. Make a difference in the world, crap like that. Didn't really work out. Osborne studies him. OSBORNE I bet    that's the second story you tell    the girls to get them into bed, after    you make them laugh with the first    one. Hardy just smiles. OSBORNE This is the straight hitting on me you were talking about, isn't it? HARDY The very same. OSBORNE You do understand that there's absolutely no way I could ever be attracted to you, right?
25.		HARDY I plan to grow on you. OSBORNE You're off to a late start. HARDY So noted. They pass an OVERTURNED CLIMBING TOWER. HARDY You guys really got the shit kicked out of you here. OSBORNE Imagine what it must have been like for them out there. What do you think of Dunbar? HARDY He's telling the truth, up to a point. OSBORNE What point? Hardy doesn't respond, instead looking out as they pass the SECTION EIGHT BARRACKS. OSBORNE Something wrong? HARDY Being back here. Gives me the willies. OSBORNE Not the happiest of memories? FLASHCUT TO - FIFTEEN YEARS AGO. A bunch of young Cadets, Hardy and Styles among them, doing forced push-ups by the barracks in the rain as West randomly berates and KICKS THEM. BACK TO HARDY - As he looks away and shakes it off. HARDY No. INT. BASE HOSPITAL -- RECOVERY UNIT -- DAY A NURSE leads Hardy and Osborne down a spotless white hall. NURSE Normally we wouldn't let anyone see him this soon, but Colonel Styles said it was urgent-
26.		HARDY It is. OSBORNE Remember, he's the son of a Senator, so go easy. Kid gloves. HARDY Got it. INT. BASE HOSPITAL -- KENDALL'S ROOM -- DAY Kendall lies in a bed, a network of tubes in his arm.   He is awake but pale, still weak. He studies his visitors. KENDALL You... I've seen you around the Base. But you...  I'm the victim here. HARDY But not the only victim, right? KENDALL My, my, my, how did things turn so hostile so quickly? If I didn't know better, I'd say you two were out to get me.
27.		OSBORNE We just want- KENDALL What, "The Truth"? Please. There are degrees of truth, officer, always degrees. Things are not what they seem. Hardy stares at him for a moment and then gets up to leave. HARDY It's too early in the day for me to give a shit about some pissant cadet's bad version of "intrigue". You want to talk to us, send word over to the brig. Let's go. Nonplussed, Osborne follows.    Hardy turns back at the door. HARDY You're working too hard, Levi. I can tell cause you're sweating. And you're sweating cause you have no idea what Dunbar's already told us. INT. BASE HOSPITAL -- CORRIDORS -- DAY Hardy and Osborne walk to the NURSE'S STATION. OSBORNE That was kid gloves? HARDY Have no fear, Osborne, we have not yet begun to fight. He pulls a cigarette from his pocket and lights it. OSBORNE But we have to question him-  Thought you didn't have cigarettes- HARDY I lied.   Wait for it... Osborne just stares at him, not knowing what to say next. The PHONE at the Nurse's Station rings and a NURSE answers. Listens for a moment, hangs up, and turns to them. NURSE Cadet Kendall- HARDY We're on our way.
28.		INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY Hardy and Osborne sit across from Kendall's bed. HARDY Sergeant West is dead isn't he? Kendall nods. HARDY And the other three Cadets? Kendall hesitates, then nods again. HARDY Feel free to elaborate . Kendall takes a breath and begins, all trace of bravado gone. KENDALL My father is a powerful man. Over the years he's used that power to protect me, in one form or another, from certain... unpleasantries.  I am a homosexual. HARDY Senator Daddy must be thrilled. KENDALL He is not, shall we say, wild about the idea. He has asked me on numerous occasions to be more discreet about my proclivities, and I have done my best to oblige him. However, in the last four weeks, I began a relationship with another cadet. What do you think of that? HARDY I think you just blew "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" out of the fucking water. KENDALL The Sergeant discovered this relationship and wanted me expelled. My father interceded, so instead, West Sectioned me and made sure every other cadet knew that I was gay. OSBORNE He couldn't kick you out so he wanted you to quit on your own. KENDALL He wanted more than that.
29.		HARDY More intrigue, Levi?
kendall		Yes.
west		Get up, get up, get up! We're going on a little night hike, boys - muster in five on the south tarmac!
pike		Hurricane's due after midnight and we're still going out?
mueller		Toughens us up, Pike.    You don't like it, quit.
kendall		Maybe we shouldn't go.
mueller		The faggot speaks.
kendall		You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?
mueller		 You ever been in a hurricane, Mueller?
nunez		You really heard this?
30.		PIKE You know Popham, works in the kitchen? He told me it was on the radio. He stops, listening.    They all hear the WIND, HOWLING outside. KENDALL We should tell him we're not going. MUELLER Oh, yeah, "Excuse me, Sergeant, sir, we don't feel like going out - we don't want to get rained on." He'll kick our asses from here to Cleveland. He pulls on his rain poncho and is out the door, Nunez right behind him. The others, getting ready, all except Kendall. Dunbar comes over and puts a hand on his shoulder. DUNBAR He's right.    We don't have a choice. EXT. FORT MCKINLEY -- TARMAC -- LAST NIGHT The six cadets, mustered in front of West and a TRANSPORT CHOPPER. West hands out M-16's, sidearms, and grenades while yelling above the wind. WEST A rifle, a pistol, and three phosphorous grenades to a man! This is live fire, so keep those safetied until we touch down; I don't want anyone shooting their dick off! Some chuckling. WEST Some of you may have heard there's a hurricane coming! American soldiers do not wait for good weather - they do not wait for a bright sunshiney day to do their duty! An American Soldier learns to operate in the worst conditions and turn said conditions into an advantage against their enemy! Anyone who thinks these conditions are too harsh, feel free to lay down and die, you get me? THE CADETS Sir, yes, sir! WEST LZ is two clicks North of a cabin, you are to split into teams of two 
31.		WEST  and work your way through your designated area blasting as many targets as you can find! Each area has twenty targets, first team to take all twenty and find the cabin wins! Teams are as follows - Dunbar and Nunez, Pike and Mueller, Kendall and Childs! Mueller groans. WEST I will be in the areas monitoring your progress and if I see anyone drag ass I will personally slit you stem to sternum and leave you for dead! Fall out! The Cadets board the Transport Chopper. Kendall gets on last, passing West who leans in and whispers to him: WEST You're gonna die tonight, faggot. INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY Osborne looks up. OSBORNE He said what? KENDALL "You're gonna die tonight, faggot" . Clear as day. OSBORNE No one else heard it? KENDALL He whispered it in my ear. Hardy scratches his temple. HARDY Levi, I don't know   if you're familiar with investigative   work, but we have this little thing   called "motive" and you just gave   yourself one. KENDALL You said you wanted to know what happened- I'm telling you the truth. HARDY What happened to "degrees"?
32.		KENDALL Didn't kill him- HARDY Then who did? INT. ARMY TRANSPORT HELICOPTER  I started getting it in my head that maybe West had paid him, maybe he was the one who was supposed to give me a training accident- The ROAR of GUNFIRE!  Kendall turns  towards it,  SCREAMING for a moment... Until he sees Childs  lower his  smoking rifle, a SHREDDED TARGET on a tree in front  of them.   He looks down, noticing has his own weapon TRAINED  ON CHILDS.  .. Childs steps forward, knocking Kendall's rifle away.
33.		CHILDS Don't you ever point a gun at me!
kendall		I'm- I'm sorry. . .
childs		Come on, let's move.
childs		Christ, am I alone in this world? Shoot something-
childs		A target, Kendall, cap a fucking target. What's wrong with you?
childs		Just safety your shit and get behind me, okay? I'll take care of this.
34.		KENDALL  Enough to almost kill him. HARDY But you didn't. KENDALL No.    Poetic justice, though. OSBORNE Why? No reply.   Hardy smiles, understanding. HARDY Because Childs is the one who shot you. Osborne looks up, surprised.           Kendall nods. KENDALL But that came later. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- LAST NIGHT As Kendall safeties his rifle and lowers it... The SOUND of a tremendous EXPLOSION comes from their right! Kendall and Childs knocked off their feet as the sky momentarily LIGHTS UP with the blast as a MAN SCREAMS! CHILDS Over there! Childs points to the right, where the dim shine of PHOSPHOROUS can be seen through the trees. He drags Kendall to his feet and the two take off running towards it. Kendall panting and scared, ducking branches and leaping ditches as the two sprint towards the dying glow. CHILDS Hello!    HEL-
35.		The sound of GUNFIRE!   Childs TACKLES Kendall... CHILDS GET DOWN! They hit the deck, face down in mud. It takes them a second to realize the shots are not directed at them. CHILDS Fuck, what the fuck is going on- KENDALL What do we do? CHILDS Whoever it is isn't shooting at us... He trails off. The gunfire and screaming have stopped. Silence now, save for the wind and rain. KENDALL Don't want to go- CHILDS Fine. Childs rises and heads towards where the sounds were. Kendall, lying in the rain and mud, shivering.    Alone.   After a moment he gets up and follows. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED,-- LAST NIGHT The SCORCHED GROUND and TREES smolder under the rainfall. Kendall finds Childs, standing down by the creek. Something lies by his feet. KENDALL What's- He stops, seeing. KENDALL Oh, Jesus.. . WEST. Literally spread out on the ground, dead. Eyes open, face half blackened, he has been ripped in two at the torso. A horrifying sight. Kendall stumbles back from it. KENDALL Did- Did you- CHILDS It was the grenade you fucking idiot. Look at him!
36.		Kendall can't.   He sits, sobbing.   Part horror, part relief. CHILDS This isn't our area.   Whose area is This- MUELLER Can anybody hear me! Childs pivots at the sound of Mueller coming over the ridge. MUELLER Hey, I-  Mueller- MUELLER I don't know!
37.		KENDALL How can you not know- Mueller comes at him, screaming: MUELLER Shut the fuck up, you fucking faggot, You just shut the FUCK UP- CHILDS HEY! Mueller stops, eyes crazed. Childs looks to the sky, which is becoming worse by the second. CHILDS We have to get out of this.    To find the cabin. He helps Kendall to his feet. KENDALL What about Pike? CHILDS Maybe he'll be there.    Either way, we have to go. Kendall nods, slowly.   The two start up the hill. MUELLER Shouldn't we- I mean, we shouldn't just leave him here. He points down to West's body.    Childs looks at it. CHILDS You can carry him if you want. He and Kendall continue on. Mueller lingers a moment longer and then turns, following them up the hill. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- LAST NIGHT Kendall, Childs, and Mueller make their way through the bush. The WIND and RAIN have conspired into a FULL BLOWN HURRICANE. The three men are practically stumbling now, leaning in against it to stay on their feet. Kendall spies something through the maelstrom. It looks like WET WOOD. He points: KENDALL There! THE CABIN -- Wooden, one story, and large, it resembles a solidly built shack. It is being thrashed by the storm.
38.		The trio stumble towards the front door... INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT Obviously abandoned. Bare of any furniture save for two wooden chairs next to an empty fireplace. DUNBAR and NUNEZ shout in surprise as the three men practically collapse into the cabin. Dunbar runs to bolt the door against the elements as Nunez helps them up. NUNEZ What happened to you- MUELLER What happened to you? DUNBAR We finished the course and came here, Then heard an explosion-  Where's Pike? CHILDS We don't know. West is dead. Silence. Dunbar and Nunez stare at him.    Mueller jerks a hand towards Kendall and Childs. MUELLER They found him. Poor fucker was Practically blown in half- KENDALL Poor fucker my ass... MUELLER You better watch it, faggot, I'm not Sure you and Childs didn't do him- CHILDS What about you, wandering around Alone? At least we have an alibi- DUNBAR What do you mean, alone? MUELLER Pike and I got separated- KENDALL Yeah and he doesn't know when- MUELLER I remember now, it was before the Explosion-
39.		KENDALL Oh, you remember now- MUELLER I'm about two seconds away from seeing If fairies really can fly- NUNEZ What about Pike? Mueller stops, as the others turn towards the big man. Silence. They realize what the question means. DUNBAR He wouldn't kill anybody. . . MUELLER Oh, bullshit, he's a fucking convict. You know how much he hated West- DUNBAR I hated West, Childs hated West, everyone with a goddamn brain hated West but that doesn't mean we killed him! NUNEZ What if it wasn't one of us?    What if it was a local- KENDALL He was blown up by a phosphorous grenade, they don't exactly sell those at 7-11. MUELLER Look, here are the facts - Roberto was with Dunbar, Queen Kendall was with Childs, and Pike's the only one not here. He did it! The others nod, becoming convinced. CHILDS He is the only one unaccounted for. KENDALL Maybe he's dead too.    Maybe you killed Them both, Mueller- DUNBAR Shut up.  Let me see your grenades. MUELLER Why?
40.		DUNBAR We were each given three so whoever killed West will be missing one. Mueller angrily digs into his sack and pulls out his grenades. MUELLER See?   Three.     Now can we please- He stops. Hearing a SOUND outside.        Through the wind and rain, FOOTSTEPS on the porch. They all turn to the door.       Waiting... The DOOR SWINGS OPEN.. Pike.       Covered in BLOOD. PIKE Hey, guys. They stare at him as he calmly closes the door and walks over to the empty FIREPLACE. Finally: DUNBAR Whose blood is that, Jay?       West's. PIKE Any kindling for afire? He looks around for kindling.       A beat. DUNBAR What do you mean, West's? PIKE I mean I killed him.  Isn't that what we all wanted? INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY HARDY He admitted it. KENDALL Right in front of us. Mueller went after him but we held him back. Pike surrendered and volunteered to be tied up. So we roped him to a chair and tried to ride out the storm. OSBORNE Why would he just surrender? Kendall turns to her and smiles. KENDALL Because he had a plan.
41.		INT. CABIN -- LIVING ROOM -- LAST NIGHT Pike, tied to a chair by the fireplace while the others look for, food in the KITCHEN. Alone, Kendall walks past Pike: PIKE Hey, Kendall, talk to you for a sec? Kendall looks around - there seems no harm in it. PIKE You hated West as much as I did. I'm not saying what I did was right, but you can't tell me you're not glad the motherfucker's dead. Kendall says nothing. Pike looks around, makes sure no one is listening and then whispers: PIKE The thing is, we've got a real opportunity here. You turn me in Tomorrow and we're both fucked- KENOALL What are you talking about? PIKE A gay Senator's son who let his Sarge get fragged on a training exercise? The press'll crucify you and your father. His career will be over and it'll be your fault. But we do this different and you come out a hero. On Kendall, thinking about it.    A beat. KENOALL How? PIKE Mueller.    He's as bad as West and we both know   it. Now I can't do it, cause I'm   tied up, but we get the others to   go along- KENDALL Don't think I want to hear this- PIKE Someone else can do the deed, it doesn't have to be you. Maybe Nunez too, he's got a tendency to follow Mueller, but the rest of us can come out ahead - the guys who took out their Sergeant's killers! 
42.		PIKE  I don't think he meant to do it. It was just reflex - he'd already been gutshot. I must have passed out cause next thing I knew... EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- DAWN The sounds of RUNNING  and HEAVY BREATHING. Kendall's eyes flutter open. He's on   Dunbar's back, being carried through the woods. The sound   of GUNFIRE and a TREE BRANCH SHATTERS next to them. Someone   is chasing them. Trying to kill them. Nunez.
43.		Dunbar bobs and weaves as another volley of bullets comes from behind and we can now hear ROTOR BLADES APPROACHING... EXT. CLEARING -- DAWN As Dunbar bursts into the sunlight, carrying Kendall. The entire thing dreamlike, what we saw at the opening, but from KENDALL'S VIEWPOINT -- the helicopter overhead, Nunez behind, Dunbar turning and shooting, NUNEZ GOING DOWN... INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY KENDALL And that's it. Hardy is silent.    Staring at him. OSBORNE Nunez was chasing Dunbar. KENDALL Because he'd shot Mueller. OSBORNE But you didn't see it, right? KENDALL Like I said, I was in the kitchen. When I came out, Mueller and Pike were dead, Nunez and Childs were hit and Dunbar was gone. HARDY Why did he come back for you? KENDALL I honestly don't know. Maybe to have someone to cover for him. And I wish I could, but there's no doubt in my mind he killed those men. Silence.   Kendall's got nothing more to say. HARDY Okay. I think that's it.     He rises and walks to the door. KENDALL Mr. Hardy? Hardy turns back. KENDALL What did Dunbar tell you?
44.		Hardy smiles and pushes out the door...
hardy		Pike killed West, Dunbar killed Mueller, Childs, and Nunez.
styles		Who killed Pike?
hardy		Someone must have got a shot off. He wasn't exactly a moving target.
styles		What do you think?
osborne		It's too neat.
hardy		"Too neat." How long have you been an investigator?
osborne		I don't think that has anything to do with-
hardy		That means under a year. Let me explain what ten years of police work has taught me - murder is basic. There are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, and no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings; murder is shitty people doing a shitty thing to other shitty people - it doesn't always make sense but it's always neat. Dunbar's our guy.
osborne		I just... He came back for Kendall. I don't think he's capable of murder.
hardy		Everyone's capable of murder, Osborne.
45.		OSBORNE Look, all we've got is what Kendall says, and he didn't actually witness any deaths except Nunez. He found West, he saw Mueller and Pike, but just their bodies - he didn't see any crime committed. HARDY Well, I'm sure if he'd known this was all going to happen he'd have Tried harder to witness it for you- STYLES West's body isn't in the creek bed. They stop arguing, turning to look at him. STYLES We've already been over the terrain twice. Nothing. HARDY There was a hurricane, Bill, the wind probably moved it. STYLES Habeas Corpus - you have to have a body to have a crime. HARDY Okay, then let's widen the search 'to include the endzone in Giants Stadium and the trunk of my car- STYLES Without the body we have no physical proof. We need a confession. HARDY From Dunbar? I hate to break this to you, but I don't think he's gonna be all that psyched to put himself in for the death penalty. STYLES Nevertheless- HARDY Nevertheless what'? Kendall will testify and that'll be enough. STYLES Not for me. A beat. Almost accusingly:
46.		HARDY You mean not enough to save you. STYLES JAG gets here in three hours.   Try for the confession. INT. COFFEE ROOM -- DAY Dunbar looks up as Hardy and Osborne enter. HARDY  Hey, Ray! Just had a nice talk with your buddy. Kendall - seems you killed three people! DUNBAR That son of a bitch. HARDY That'd be my reaction too- DUNBAR He's lying. HARDY Well, why didn't you say so? We'll Just drop all your charges, then- DUNBAR I'm serious- Hardy leans across the table. HARDY Fuck "you're serious", Raymond, you got exactly zero truck with us; right now we'd take the word of a crackhead over yours, so if you've got something to say, say it. DUNBAR Did Kendall tell you about the PX? OSBORNE He said he worked there- DUNBAR No, did he tell you about it?   About the business Childs ran? OSBORNE What business?
47.		DUNBAR Pills, shots, you name it, Basic's a lot easier when you don't feel pain- HARDY So Childs made some side money, so what? People are dead, Ray, and the only one we have to blame is you- DUNBAR Didn't shoot West- HARDY Yeah, we know, Pike did. Dunbar stares at him. DUNBAR You think you know everything, don't you? You haven't even scratched the surface. Hardy leans across the table, looks Dunbar dead in the eye. HARDY I know enough to know you got two choices - you can sign a confession, in which case you'll probably spend the rest of your life in a military prison, or you can tell us to fuck off, in which case you'll probably get the gas chamber.  Am I scratching your surface yet? Dunbar stares at him for a moment and then LAUNCHES HIMSELF at Hardy, SCREAMING. Tackles him to the floor, CHOKING HIM... Osborne, pulling her sidearm, and PISTOL WHIPPING Dunbar in the head! Dunbar goes sprawling off Hardy as M.P.'s rush into the room, RESTRAINING him. Hardy gets up, gasping, and stumbles to the door. OSBORNE Hardy! But he's already gone. INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- CORRIDORS -- DAY Hardy, walking angrily towards the front entrance, wheezing and massaging his neck. Osborne, runninq to catch up. HARDY Why the fuck wasn't he in restraints?
48.		OSBORNE I don't know.
styles		Tom, where are you going-
hardy		Home, I'm done.
styles		What about the confession?
hardy		You want a confession? Why don't you confess, Bill: people are dead and you don't give a shit about it! Only reason you called me is to protect your fucking job, you know this is your fault-
styles		What the hell are you talking about-
hardy		I'm talking about West! We had him, Bill, we were there. You're the fucking Base Commander, you knew what he did to Cadets and you let him go on the way he always he has- Styles couldn't reassign him, he's a legend-
hardy		You knew what he was capable of and you just stood by. It was just a matter of time till somebody fragged his ass, and you know what? He deserved it. There's your confession.
osborne		Goddammit, Hardy, you can't just leave-
hardy		Watch me.
49.		OSBORNE You said you owed Styles and now you're gonna turn your back on him? Hardy whirls on her. HARDY West was a monster! Fifteen years ago, I was here, I was Section Eight, I was Pike. Fuck being the knife dummy- that thing he did, stripping Pike down, making him stand outside all night? He did that every year, he did that to me. Fifteen years ago, I wanted him dead, and now I'm supposed to care that somebody offed him? Sorry, no can do. I tried. OSBORNE You did more than try. You cracked Dunbar in less than three minutes, as an investigator you're phenomenal- HARDY Phenomenal at taking bribes, right? A beat.   Osborne shakes her head. OSBORNE I was starting to believe you, you know? That you weren't who everyone Said. I guess I was wrong- HARDY Oh, spare me the reverse psychology bullshit! This isn't my "great second chance", Osborne. Everyone thinks I'm a piece of shit cop who took money and nothing is going to change that. Nobody will ever know what happens here- OSBORNE But you will. Hardy stares at her. HARDY Why do you care? OSBORNE Because it's my job. Because people are dead. Because of the whole honor and duty thing, make a difference in the world, crap like that.  We can do this, Hardy.
50.		Hardy looks at the ground. OSBORNE Two and a half hours. That's all I'm asking. Two and a half hours to maybe get the truth. Silence. Hardy looks back up at her.     Speaking softly: HARDY I didn't shoot West... OSBORNE What? HARDY Dunbar... He said he didn't shoot West. West wasn't shot, Kendall said he was blown apart by a phosphorous grenade and Dunbar never saw the body. They stare at each other for a moment... INT. COFFEE ROOM -- DAY Hardy and Osborne enter to find Dunbar in SHACKLES. DUNBAR Apologize- HARDY You saw West's body. DUNBAR Of course- OSBORNE Where? DUNBAR The creek bed- HARDY And he'd been shot. DUNBAR Yeah- OSBORNE What about the phosphorous grenade? DUNBAR One went off, yeah, but it didn't Touch him- I thought you knew this-
51.		HARDY Tell it to me. INT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED -- LAST NIGHT Dunbar and Nunez RUNNING towards the glow of phosphorous and sound of GUNFIRE. They come over the hill to see Childs and Kendall, standing over WEST'S BODY. Dunbar stops, shocked. DUNBAR Holy fuck... Holy fuck, what the fuck did you guys do? CHILDS We found him like this... Dunbar edges closer, looking at West.   With BULLET HOLES. His chest, riddled. KENDALL Somebody emptied a full clip into him- HARDY  West...he's dead. OSBORNE (V.O.} Back up. INT. COFFEE ROOM -- PRESENT DAY OSBORNE Mueller was alone in the cabin?
52.		DUNBAR Yeah.
dunbar		So did we.   Why didn't you come?
mueller		I was afraid... Mueller voice FADES OUT as he continues to talk.
osborne		At least you and Kendall agree on that.
hardy		What happened next?     Dunbar shudders.
dunbar		Pike came back.
pike		What the fuck happened to you-
mueller		What the fuck happened to you? One minute you're next to me and the next you're gone and the sky lights up like fucking Christmas-
dunbar		Where have you been, Jay?
53.		PIKE Wandering through a hurricane trying to find this place. It's gettin' bad out there-  West's dead. A beat. PIKE What? Silence.   All of them staring at Pike. DUNBAR Where have you been, Jay? Pike, suddenly understanding.      Fear creeping into his face. PIKE Oh, no. . . no, fuck that- He moves to the door, but. . . NUNEZ Hey! Nunez, with his PISTOL out.      Trained on Pike. PIKE Roberto, what the fuck? DUNBAR We just want to check your pack- PIKE Why? MUELLER Whoever shot the Sarge blew a grenade first- PIKE Blame the nigger, then, huh? Someone turns up dead, you just look for the Darkest face in the crowd- DUNBAR You know it's not like that-
54.		PIKE Do I? The CLICK as Nunez pulls back the pistol's hammer. NUNEZ Let him check your pack. Pike stares at them and then throws his pack down, angrily. Dunbar goes to it, opens it, and reaches in. Pulls his hand out. Only TWO GRENADES. Looks at Pike. Sadly. DUNBAR Tie him up. INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT Later. The fury of the storm has increased. Kendall, Childs, Nunez, and Mueller, in the KITCHEN looking for food. IN THE LIVING ROOM Pike, tied to the chair. Dunbar sitting in a corner, listening to the hurricane rage outside. Pike watches him. PIKE Just like the first day, huh?    You standing guard on me. A CREAKING as the cabin SHIFTS on it's foundation.   Dunbar looks up at the roof, scared. It holds. PIKE This place ain't gonna hold much longer. Dunbar doesn't reply. Still staring nervously at the roof. Pike looks to make sure the others out of earshot, then: PIKE You and me are friends, right? No reply. PIKE Right? DUNBAR Yeah... Pike takes a deep breath. PIKE You gotta untie me.  I didn't do this thing, Ray.
55.		DUNBAR You hated West more than any of us. PIKE Maybe, but that don't make me a killer- DUNBAR You're the only one missing a grenade. PIKE Which anyone coulda taken out of my gear on the chopper. Were you watching your pack on the ride in? Dunbar starts to get up. PIKE Ray, this is my life    here. I ain't gonna pretend I'm not    happy West is gone, but you know I    couldn't have done this. It's not     in me. DUNBAR If not you, then who? PIKE Mueller. DUNBAR Oh, come on- PIKE We're sweeping our area and suddenly he's gone. Couple minutes later, phosphorous grenade pops off about a third of a click away- DUNBAR That's exactly what he says about you. PIKE Who you gonna trust, Ray?    Him or your friend? Dunbar stares at him. DUNBAR You hated West, Mueller loved him- PIKE Enough to go to prison? Childs' PX Scam, Mueller was in on it- DUNBAR Bullshit.
56.		PIKE Look in my pack. DUNBAR Why? PIKE Just look.   Little pocket. Dunbar walks over to Pike's pack and unzips it.    Checks the little pocket. Pulls out a VIAL and a SYRINGE. PIKE Combat grade morphine.    Mueller sold it to me. . DUNBAR You're lying- PIKE Pull up my sleeve.    Right arm. Dunbar does to reveal a cluster of TRACK MARKS. PIKE That look like a lie to you? I been using solid for the last eight weeks. Dunbar sits down.   Not knowing what to say. PIKE After that first night on the parade Grounds with you, I was bad - Exposure, malnutrition, the works. I needed something to keep me from crashing. Mueller found me. INT. CADET SHOWERS -- EIGHT WEEKS AGO Empty except for Pike. He sits, nude, curled up on the tile, as the nozzles blast STEAMING WATER down onto his shivering form. FOOTSTEPS approaching. Mueller. He leans down next to Pike, speaking to him. Kindly. PIKE  He said he knew guy who had an in at the PX, could hook me up. This is before I knew what a dick he was. As Mueller produces a SYRINGE from his pocket... INT. BASE PX -- BACKROOM -- SIX WEEKS AGO A covert meeting among stacks of supplies. Childs stands with Mueller, talking to a gaunt Pike. Behind Pike are a group of other SICKLY LOOKING CADETS, all jonesing.
57.		PIKE Later on Childs got assigned there, started running the shit out to every cadet who needed it. But I was our class's first customer.. . Pike hands the smiling Mueller a WAD OF CASH... INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT Dunbar staring open mouthed at Pike.    Shocked. DUNBAR Why... why didn't you tell me? PIKE Becoming a morphine addict during Basic ain't exactly something you want to broadcast. Only Mueller and Childs know. A beat.   Dunbar gets to his feet. DUNBAR That still doesn't mean you didn't kill him. PIKE You saw West, right?   How was he killed? DUNBAR Full clip to the body- PIKE From up close or far away? DUNBAR His chest was hamburger- PIKE That's close range. You go full auto on a guy from close range, you're gonna be swimming in blood. Look at my uniform. Nothing. Dunbar looks.   Not a speck of blood on it. PIKE And where's Mueller's? When I came in, he was only wearing a t-shirt. Dunbar looks over to fireplace, where ashes are smoldering... FLASHCUT TO - When Dunbar first entered the Cabin: Mueller, standing there in a T-SHIRT, a FIRE burning in the hearth.
58.		PIKE Way I figure it, West must have found out about their little business and was gonna bust them, so they decided to get rid of him first... DUNBAR  He blows the grenade to frame me and gets West to come running... . The grenade BLOWS, setting the entire area AGLOW... EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- EARLIER LAST NIGHT Kendall and Childs, turning towards the sound... Note: Each shot of Kendall and Childs in this sequence should correspond exactly to Kendall's Flashback. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED -- NIGHT West emerges from the bush at a sprint. WEST What the fuck is going on?! Mueller runs down the embankment toward him.
59.		MUELLER Don't know, sir, I- Six feet away from West, Mueller suddenly raises his rifle and PULLS THE TRIGGER. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- EARLIER LAST NIGHT Kendall and Childs, running in the direction of the grenade... PIKE Childs' job is easy, he only has to delay Kendall long enough for Mueller to get away. Suddenly MACHINE GUNFIRE shatters the night! CHILDS GET DOWN! He tackles Kendall into the mud. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED -- EARLIER LAST NIGHT Mueller, smoking rifle in hand, uniform covered in blood stands over WEST'S DEAD BODY. He turns and runs off INTO THE BRUSH. A moment later, Childs and Kendall come into view at the top of the embankment... PIKE  And wait for everyone else to arrive. Mueller, watching the evidence burn... INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT Pike sighs, finished with his story. DUNBAR I... I don't know... PIKE What don't you know? DUNBAR This is a lot of information to be Getting... I have to think-
60.		The hurricane outside GROWING LOUDER as the Cabin ROCKS again. The sound of WOOD SNAPPING. Pike stares up at the roof. PIKE There's no time to think, Ray, we gotta get out of here! You untie me, we grab the guns, get Kendall and Nunez, and make a run for it- DUNBAR No... no, we can just wait till we get back and then tell the M.P.'s- PIKE We wait and I'm a dead man. I got a black face, a criminal record, and over a hundred other cadets who'll testify how much I hated West - my court martial will take six minutes. It's either me or them, Ray, and you gotta decide right now. The cabin SHIFTS again.     Dunbar stares at him. PIKE Untie me. Dunbar doesn't move. PIKE Untie me, Ray. A long beat.   The two men stare at each other. And then Dunbar pulls his knife from his boot and leans down to cut Pike's bonds. PIKE Thank God. . . MUELLER  What the fuck are you doing? Dunbar freezes.   Caught. He looks to the open kitchen door where Mueller stands. MUELLER Guys, get out here! The others enter the room. Dunbar, kneeling there, knife inches away from severing Pike's ropes. PIKE This place is going, Mueller.     We gotta move-
61.		MUELLER Shut the fuck up.  What about him, huh? Maybe he offed the Sarge and changed shirts, brought an extra one in his pack. Y'ever think of that? Go ahead, cut him loose! First chance he gets, he'll waste the rest of us, that's how they work- The hurricane, reaching FEVER PITCH outside as WATER begins leaking in through the roof.
62.		PIKE Goddammit, Ray, we gotta get out of Here- MUELLER We're not going anywhere. PIKE TURNS TO MUELLER: PIKE Cadet Michael Mueller, I hereby place you under military arrest for the Murder of Sergeant Nathan West- MUELLER The fuck are you talking about- PIKE You are to be stripped of all weapons And placed under guard- MUELLER Bullshit- PIKE Until we return to base, and ballistics can match your weapon to the slugs in Sergeant West's body- MUELLER Shut up! Mueller pulls his SIDEARM and POINTS IT AT PIKE. KENDALL Mueller, what the fuck- DUNBAR Don't do this- Pike, EYES LOCKED with Mueller.    Continuing: PIKE A test will no doubt link you to the Killing- DUNBAR Put it down! MUELLER Tell him to shut up- PIKE -failure to comply with this arrest is a court martialable offense in and of itself-
63.		KENDALL Pike, please- PIKE Although that won't matter much when Coupled with the murder charge- MUELLER SHUT THE FUCK UP YOU FUCKING NIGGER- Pike leans forward. PIKE You stupid white trash motherfucker, I saw you do it- And Mueller FIRES. Pike's head SNAPS BACK. The gunshot, DEAFENING.    Then, for an eternity, SILENCE. Nobody moves.   Nobody breathes.   As if time has stopped. KENDALL Oh.. . my God... Mueller lowers his arm, the pistol clattering to the floor. His face, as shocked as the others. MUELLER He wouldn't... stop talking... He takes a step forward towards Pike.    A hole in the middle of the black man's forehead. DUNBAR  So you killed him? MUELLER I. . . Almost mechanically, Dunbar begins to reach for his own gun... The unmistakable sound of a two rifles' magazines being RACKED simultaneously. Dunbar turns to see Childs and Nunez, their M-16's in hand. Levelled at him. CHILDS Get that hand away. Dunbar does.    Looks to Nunez. DUNBAR You too?
64.		CHILDS We can still come out of this okay. Pike got free, he got a gun, he came after us. That's the story. Mueller collapses on the ground.   Head in hands. MUELLER West was one thing, but this- CHILDS Shut up, Mueller. KENDALL You framed-him... CHILDS None of that matters now. We got two dead bodies and a story that explains them. You're either with us, or against us - which is it? Dunbar and Kendall, looking at each other. It's clear what the wrong answer will mean. A long beat, until KENDALL Okay- He is cut off as the WIND outside ROARS - the HURRICANE mounting to it's FULL FORCE - and the WINDOWS BLOW INWARDS, showering Childs, Mueller, and Nunez with glass! Dunbar's hand flies to his pistol, PULLING IT... Mueller, SCREAMING, trying to claw the glass from his EYES... Childs, seeing Dunbar move, PULLS THE TRIGGER. .. . And the cabin is filled with the THUNDER OF GUNFIRE as Kendall goes down, clutching his ARM... DUNBAR FIRES, hitting Childs directly in the chest... Childs, still shooting, falls back, his random spray of bullets PUNCHING INTO MUELLER who jerks like a marionette... Nunez, drawing a bead on Dunbar, about to shoot, when... A great CRESCENDO of WOOD SPLINTERING and SUPPORTS BUCKLING overtakes them and the CABIN'S ROOF COMES DOWN ON THEIR HEADS. EXT. DEMOLISHED CABIN -- FIRST LIGHT Hours later. The rain has lessened and the Hurricane has begun to lift as Dunbar pulls himself from the debris. Hearing a FAINT CRY from his left.
65.		Kendall.   Half conscious, his arm, bloody. Dunbar slings the man across his shoulders as the rising sun begins to peak through the clouds overhead. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- SUNRISE Dunbar, carrying Kendall towards the clearing when GUNFIRE comes from behind. He turns to look... Nunez. The only other survivor from the Cabin. A hundred yards back, rifle in hand, coming after them with a vengeance. Dunbar, sprinting towards the clearing, bullets at his heels and as he bursts from the tree line he looks up to see a HELICOPTER OVERHEAD DUNBAR  And then I killed the last of them. FLASHCUT TO - Nunez, chest blown open, going down... INT. COFFEE ROOM -- PRESENT DAY And we're back to the interrogation. Dunbar, stubbing out a cigarette and looking up at Hardy and Osborne. DUNBAR Can I have some coffee? Osborne blinks, like a trance has been broken. OSBORNE Yeah... yeah, sure. She goes over to the machine and pours a cup. HARDY You shot Childs and Nunez. DUNBAR They would have killed us both. You want me to write a confession, I'll write a confession. HARDY You saved Kendall's life- DUNBAR But not Pike's. Osborne hands him the coffee. OSBORNE Why didn't you tell us all this in the first place?
66.		DUNBAR Would you have believed me? Their faces say "no".   Osborne spreads a MAP out on the table. OSBORNE Where's the cabin? DUNBAR Don't know on a map. West told us it was there, we just found it. Maybe the hurricane took it away. HARDY Raymond, for you to have any chance of coming out of this, we need to locate the other bodies and examine them to corroborate your testimony. Otherwise this is just another story- DUNBAR Mr. Hardy, I joined the army for college money. I didn't ask for any of this - I tried to do the right thing out there and people got killed. You say finding those bodies'll help me, then go find them. I don't want to die. EXT. FOR MCKINLEY -- CORRIDORS -- DAY Hardy and Osborne, walking and talking. OSBORNE Talk it through: Childs, Mueller, and Nunez know they're going out on the regular Tuesday Night drill, hurricane or ho hurricane, so they plan it: Kill West, pin it on Pike. HARDY And they're smart about it. They know when you commit a crime you know is going to be investigated, you need a fall guy and for that to work, you have to have a witness. OSBORNE Dunbar. HARDY Exactly, someone who's not involved, who's word can't be questioned. You only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe, so when the time comes, they've totally bought into your version of events.
67.		OSBORNE They believe the innocent are guilty and the guilty are innocent. HARDY And if they're asked, that's what they'll tell the, world. OSBORNE So it's a good plan but it goes wrong; Mueller flips out and shoots their fall guy, which means they have to bring Dunbar and Kendall into the Cover story- HARDY Kendall maybe would have agreed, but The hurricane buttfucks the cabin- OSBORNE Buttfucks the cabin? HARDY And all hell breaks loose. A lot of Good guys shoot a lot of bad guys and whiz, bang, zoom, happy ending. OSBORNE So why, after Dunbar drags Kendall out from under a house, does the Senator's son try and get us to put his savior in the gas chamber? HARDY That bugs you too? OSBORNE Little bit. HARDY Let's go talk to Bill... INT. STYLES' OFFICE -- DAY Hardy and Osborne stand in front of an agitated Styles. He tries to take a hit off his asthma inhaler and gets nothing. Frustrated, he tosses it away. STYLES Fucking asthma... This whole thing's driving it nuts. A beat. HARDY What I said before-
68.		STYLES Was dead right. You think Dunbar's on the level? HARDY Yeah. STYLES Does Osborne agree? OSBORNE Yes, sir, I do. Hardy lays a piece of paper on Styles' desk. HARDY Dunbar's confession. It should be enough to get you out of trouble. Styles looks at it and then slowly up to Hardy. STYLES You want Kendall, don't you? OSBORNE He tried to burn Dunbar to us. You don't do that if you're not involved. Hardy nods, agreeing.   Styles stares at them. STYLES You both know if you do this, if you go after a Senator's son and you're wrong... it's not just me in the hot seat anymore. OSBORNE We know. STYLES  I'm giving you a chance to walk away. HARDY We know. Styles nods and looks to his desk.      Almost to himself: STYLES You don't get to be a Colonel without compromising. Without getting out of the way of the bigger dogs. You politic, play it safe, think of the career first. And when things get dirty, you just look the other way... He looks back up at Hardy.      His eyes, steeled.
69.		STYLES Four of my men are dead. You think Kendall had something to do with it, then you go get the son of a bitch.
osborne		Pike never confessed.
kendall		We've been making progress, I see.
kendall		Running out of time, are we? Tick- Tock, tick-tock, how long till your witnesses fly the coop?
osborne		Fifty minutes.
kendall		Not much time to solve the crime. Tell me, detective, how did it feel taking blood money from Guissepe Torres? Did it weigh on your conscience or did you just not think about it?
hardy		You tried to pin three stone murders on Dunbar-
kendall		How many murders did you cover up? One? Five? Maybe an even ten.
hardy		 Can I go to jail for punching a guy who's been shot?
kendall		I think they're giving me the wrong medicine. This isn't a very good Hospital, you know-
70.		KENDALL Epileptic attacks are murder on your system. Rattle your internal organs like a paint mixer. HARDY My heart weeps. He returns with a GLASS OF WATER and hands it to Kendall. OSBORNE Pike never confessed. KENDALL No, but it got you interested, didn't it? Got you to dig. Inspired Ray to tell you terribly sordid tales about drugs and creek beds and dead little sergeants who stuck their noses where they didn't belong. HARDY Is it the truth? KENDALL There's that word again.  As I told you, I wasn't in the room when everyone started shooting. OSBORNE Dunbar says you were. KENDALL Then he's mistaken. You know, I really don't think my father would approve of this line of questioning- HARDY Why did you tell us he shot everybody, Levi? You put him in for three murders, the man saved your life- KENDALL So I should stay silent about his misdeeds? The guns went off, I ran in, Childs shot me, Pike and Mueller were dead, and Dunbar was running out the door with the smoking gun- HARDY Dunbar was running out the door? Ohhhhhh... See that's where I was confused, because I thought you said Nunez was running out the door.
71.		KENDALL No.   I said Dunbar. HARDY Huh. You know, I really thought you said Nunez. I thought you said "Dunbar was gone," My fault, I gotta check the tape on that.  Doesn't matter, I'm sure justice will be served. In any case, my father will definitely want to talk to you about all these questions, these accusations on his son. He's quite protective.
72.		Osborne turns to Hardy. OSBORNE I need to talk to you outside. EXT. BASE HOSPITAL -- CORRIDOR -- DAY Osborne and Hardy, exiting the room.      Whispering: HARDY We're fucked, I know- OSBORNE They got their stories straight. HARDY What? OSBORNE What Kendall said - "the type of guys you don't feel comfortable going to sleep around." That's what Dunbar said about Childs to the letter. HARDY Are you sure? OSBORNE Positive.    Hardy, they planned this. She grins.    He grins back. OSBORNE Not bad for hostile and uncooperative, eh? INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY Hardy and Osborne reenter, smiling.      Kendall chuckles. HARDY Something funny, Levi? KENDALL I was just thinking of what's going to happen to your careers when my father gets through with you. Hardy pulls the out MICRORECORDER and hands it to Osborne. HARDY Why don't you talk to Levi off the record for a second? OSBORNE Good idea.
73.		Smiling, she stops the tape.    Then turns to Kendall.
osborne		You and Dunbar got your stories straight. Little details, little inconsistencies, designed to bounce us back from one of you to the other, asking questions, killing time, until the transport arrives and whisks you away to where Senator Daddy can protect you. You think you're just going to slide out of this? You're an accessory to murder, Levi, you're Going to jail-
kendall		You can't threaten me-
hardy		Jail if he's lucky, the gas chamber if he's not-
kendall		Didn't do anything-
osborne		It doesn't matter, Levi. We're going to find those bodies and when we do, I'm going to make sure one of them has a bullet in them that matches your weapon-
kendall		What?
hardy		That's a fantastic idea-
osborne		See, I just take your gun to the morgue and fire it into one of their skulls; then I call every newspaper in the country with the story about how Senator Kendall's gay son went nuts on a training mission-
kendall		 It won't work-
osborne		It will and you know why? 
74.		OSBORNE Because you're not a person anymore, you're a cadet in the United States Army; you have no identity, no Miranda warning, and no rights. So I'm gonna throw you to the wolves, and unlike you I'm gonna get away with it, because you're pissing me off! She finishes, breathing hard. Kendall, totally cowed. Hardy, trying to suppress a smile. Osborne rises for the door. OSBORNE Enjoy your flight to Washington- KENDALL Wait- OSBORNE What. Silence.   Kendall takes a deep breath. KENDALL Dunbar's telling the truth. OSBORNE Wrong answer- KENDALL We did get our stories straight, but not because we killed anyone.  Who really killed West. Osborne holds up the microrecorder and starts the tape again. OSBORNE Who killed Sergeant West? Kendall stares at the recorder.   A long pause. OSBORNE Who, Levi- KENDALL Childs.
75.		HARDY How do you know? KENDALL Because I was standing next to him. He pauses, taking a shaky sip of water. KENDALL I was in on the PX thing. He and Mueller and me, we were making thousands. West found out. Childs said we were just gonna scare him - Use my Dad's clout. I had this whole speech prepared about how if he ratted us, his career was over. We met him in the creek bed but before I said anything... EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED -- LAST NIGHT West stands in front of Childs and Kendall, facing them. Kendall opens his mouth to speak, but Childs steps forward and raises his rifle, FIRING... INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY KENDALL I swear, I didn't know he was gonna do it. After, he told me we were gonna pin it on Pike, one of our biggest customers. INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT As they TIE PIKE to the, chair. KENDALL  Dunbar didn't know anything about any of it. Everything he told you was true, except after...
76.		EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- LAST NIGHT Dunbar pulls Kendall from the cabin's wreckage. As Kendall begins to talk to him, Dunbar's eyes widen in shock. .. KENDALL  I told him what had really happened to West. Told him to keep quiet about it or I'd destroy him. Because if it came out that I was involved with the whole PX scam, my father would be finished. INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY KENDALL I scared Dunbar into silence.  He's been trying to cover for me the whole time. We got here, you came to  see me... I didn't know if I could trust him with that kind of secret- OSBORNE So you framed him. The same way Childs was going to frame Pike. Kendall nods.   Crying a little. HARDY Little advice, Levi, next time you frame a guy, pick someone who can't defend themselves. Kendall says nothing. OSBORNE What happened with Nunez? KENDALL He came after us. And I told Dunbar he had to kill him... EXT. CLEARING -- EARLIER THAT MORNING The helicopter, hovering overhead. Dunbar, carrying Kendall, spinning his rifle to face Nunez, sixty yards away. Dunbar hesitates before firing, not wanting to... KENDALL Do it! Dunbar's rifle ERUPTS... INT. KENDALL'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- PRESENT DAY KENDALL And he did.
77.		Kendall finishes, wiping his face.    Osborne turns to Hardy. OSBORNE That's how you do good cop/bad cop. Hardy smiles and gets up.   Walking slowly to Kendall's bed. HARDY Childs did it, huh? Kendall nods, still a little teary. HARDY First Pike, then Mueller, now Childs? When are we getting to the others? When are we gonna hear about Nunez? FLASHCUT TO - NUNEZ, in the creek bed, SHOOTING WEST. HARDY Or Dunbar? FLASHCUT TO - Now DUNBAR, SHOOTING WEST. HARDY Or you, Levi? When is it finally going to come out that you were the one who killed him? FLASHCUT TO - KENDALL, SHOOTING WEST. KENDALL I didn't- HARDY But you can't prove it! You can't prove anything until we find the bodies! Kendall, crying harder now, beginning to shake. HARDY You lied to us, Levi, you're going to the gas chamber unless you tell us where to find them! KENDALL I don't know- HARDY Where are they! KENDALL Maybe- HARDY MAYBE WHAT-
78.		KENDALL MAYBE HE-
osborne		Get something between his teeth!
hardy		Shit!
nurse		What is-
osborne		He's an epileptic!
doctor		You're going to have to wait outside-
osborne		He's a witness!
doctor		It doesn't matter, outside-
kendall		F-F-F-F-F-F-Fuh-
osborne		He's trying to say something-
doctor		Out, NOW.
kendall		Fuh-Fuh-Fuh-Fuh-Fuh-
79.		DOCTOR SECURITY! Kendall looks up, focusing on Osborne, a slight moment of clarity in his eyes. KENDALL Fuh-Fucking Pike. And relapses into ANOTHER FIT as SECURITY GUARDS drag Hardy and Osborne from the room. INT. BASE HOSPITAL -- WAITING ROOM -- DAY Later.   Hardy and Osborne sit in silence, eyes downcast. Waiting. Hardy pulls his last cigarette from the pack, lights it, crumples the pack and tosses it into a garbage can. HARDY I pushed him too hard. OSBORNE You couldn't have known- HARDY Yeah, I could've.      Should've. OSBORNE You wanted to get the truth. HARDY No, I didn't. I wanted to humiliate him. For what he did to Dunbar. For fucking over the little guy. OSBORNE You mean the falsely accused? Hardy looks up at her and nods. OSBORNE You wanted to break him. HARDY Yeah. OSBORNE So did I. She looks back to the floor. Hardy takes a drag from the cigarette, and then tosses that away too. The door opens and Styles walks into the room.    Somber. STYLES It's over.   Time of death was 4:42. 
80.		STYLES  I guess it was about one man framing another. He thought if the other guy got blamed, people would over look his own wrong doings. Styles nods, understanding. OSBORNE What happens to Dunbar now? STYLES Gets on his plane in ten minutes, which means you two are done. You'll understand if I don't walk you out. Hardy gets up to go and then stops.   Realizing something. HARDY They're taking your command, aren't they? STYLES The Senator... He points to Kendall's hospital room.
81.		HARDY I'm sorry, Bill. STYLES Don't be. I'm not cut out to deal with the West's of the world. HARDY You're a good soldier, Bill. STYLES I thought you said that wasn't a compliment. Hardy smiles. HARDY This time it is. EXT. FORT MCKINLEY -- PARADE GROUNDS -- EVENING The sun, beginning to dip in the sky, as Hardy and Osborne exit the hospital. OSBORNE Your car's in the motor pool.     I'll walk you over. They walk in silence, for a bit. OSBORNE So what now? HARDY Now I go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened. OSBORNE Think it'll work? HARDY Nah. They pass a GROUP OF CADETS doing drills.    Hardy, watching them. Almost looking wistful. OSBORNE You know, you never told me why you left the army. HARDY It dawned on me one day that we were supposed to be a nation founded on the principle of questioning authority... and all I did here was follow orders. It didn't add up.
82.		HARDY [CONT'D) Plus, I got kicked out. OSBORNE For what? HARDY That's gonna stay my secret. INT. MOTOR POOL -- EVENING Hardy and Osborne make their way towards Hardy's car. OSBORNE We were close to something with Kendall. HARDY Maybe... Maybe we were nowhere near. Sometimes mysteries stay mysteries.  Hey, ain't you the folks workin' on that whole hulabaloo from last night? OSBORNE Yeah. SERGEANT Terrible tragedy. One of those Section Eight boys worked in here. Pike. Heard he got out okay. Hardy signs the clipboard and hands it back. HARDY Hate to be the bearer of bad news, Sergeant, but he didn't make it.
83.		The Sergeant scratches his head. SERGEANT Funny. I swear I saw them bring him and the smaller guy in this morning. OSBORNE No, no that was Cadet Dunbar- SERGEANT You mean Ray Dunbar?     Well, that ain't right. HARDY Why not? SERGEANT I saw 'em get off the chopper.     White guys, right? Two OSBORNE So? SERGEANT Ma'am, Ray Dunbar's black. Hardy and Osborne stare at him.    Shocked A beat. SERGEANT Did I say something wrong- HARDY  out to it.
84.		The SQUEAL OF TIRES as Hardy's car SLIDES around the corner of the nearest building and SCREECHES to a halt by the plane. Hardy and Osborne, leaping out, running towards Dunbar and the M.P.s. OSBORNE We need to talk to him- JAG LAWYER Sorry, Officer, we have a schedule To keep- OSBORNE We need to talk to him now. Hardy grabs Dunbar by the arm. HARDY We're not finished yet- DUNBAR You wanna bet? JAG LAWYER M.P.'s, escort this man off the base! DUNBAR  Sorry, detectives.     Time's up. As the M.P.'s grab Hardy, dragging him away. Osborne, trying to stop them. Dunbar, climbing the stairs onto the plane... Osborne pulls her SIDEARM, levelling it at him as Hardy yells: HARDY James Randall Pike, COME ON DOWN! Dunbar stops at the hatchway. Slowly turning back to them. Seeing the gun. The M.P.'s release Hardy. Nobody moves. OSBORNE Let's go have a talk. INT. COFFEE ROOM -- EVENING Hardy and Osborne roughly lead Dunbar into the room, the JAG Lawyer trailing behind, shouting: JAG LAWYER This is your entire career here- OSBORNE Fuck off. She slams the door and BARRICADES it.    Turns to Hardy.
85.		OSBORNE We got maybe three minutes till they break it down.
hardy		Right back where we started.
dunbar		You want to talk about baseball now?
hardy		No more games, right, Pike?    It was you who West singled out...
hardy		You who got hooked by Mueller's morphine...
hardy		You who did it all.
hardy		You wanted revenge on West, revenge on them all, so you killed them.
86.		INT. COFFEE ROOM -- PRESENT EVENING OSBORNE You kept Kendall alive to corroborate your story and he did it all they way up to the end. You even gave him his own motive in case we decided to burn him, too. DUNBAR Can't do that now, though, can you? HARDY You walked into the army a convicted felon with a sentence of five years in a uniform and were going walk out eight weeks later with a different name, a clean record, and an honorable discharge - a guy who did "everything he could" to save his friends. Dunbar looks at them.   One to the other.   Slowly. DUNBAR Is that what I did, now? And of course, you can prove all of it. OSBORNE We can prove that you're not Ray Dunbar. Impersonating a fellow Cadet is a court-martial in and of itself- DUNBAR Did I ever claim I was Raymond Dunbar? Was I ever told to state my name rank and serial number for the record? No. You assumed who I was, because I was wearing this uniform. Don't believe me? He reaches under the table and rips out the HIDDEN MICROPHONE. DUNBAR Check your tapes. Hardy and Osborne exchange an uneasy glance. HARDY We don't need the tapes- DUNBAR Oh, you don't? What else do you have on me? You haven't found any bodies yet, have you? HARDY We've found all of them.
87.		Dunbar chuckles at the bluff.
dunbar		Ohhhh, I don't think so...
osborne		How do you know that?
dunbar		Just a guess. Maybe they're not where they're supposed to be. Maybe somebody moved them. Habeas Corpus - no bodies, no crime, and Nunez still plays as self defense. Face it detectives ... you have nothing.
hardy		Not true, Cadet, I've got a gun-
dunbar		 Jesus!
osborne		Hardy, what are you doing-
hardy		Isn't this how your story goes? Pike annoys someone so much he gets shot in the head-
dunbar		Please, please don't-
hardy		We can tie you to the chair if it'll work better for you-
osborne		Hardy, for Chrissakes-
hardy		WHERE'S WEST'S BODY?
dunbar		 You'll never find it-
88.		DUNBAR You'll never find it cause HE'S NOT DEAD! A CRASH as the door's lock SNAPS and M.P.'s POUR into the room! Styles and the JAG Lawyer behind, taking in the scene. STYLES What in God's name is going on? Hardy releases Dunbar, who slides to the floor, gasping. DUNBAR He- He made me do it- HARDY Do what? DUNBAR Hunting- we had to hunt him- JAG LAWYER Sergeant, arrest these men! OSBORNE You mean the exercise? DUNBAR There never was an exercise! Never targets, never teams, I don't even know if there's a creek bed out there- As the M.P.'s grab Hardy and Osborne, pulling them away... HARDY What did you do? JAG LAWYER That's enough- HARDY Goddammit, what did you DO?! DUNBAR I COULDN'T KILL HIM! He breaks down sobbing.   Styles holds up a hand to the M.P.'s. STYLES Hang on. JAG LAWYER Colonel- STYLES No.   I want to hear this.
89.		The JAG Lawyer glowers as the M.P.'s stand down.   Dunbar tries to pull himself together. To Hardy: DUNBAR You're right. I was the one he singled out. Beat me morning, noon, and night, ran me ragged. When Mueller found me, I was gone. He gave me a little taste... INT. CADET SHOWERS -- EIGHT WEEKS AGO Mueller showing the syringe to the naked Dunbar.   Dunbar's voice over speaks in unison with Mueller: MUELLER AND DUNBAR 
90.		DUNBAR Every nine weeks, a new class of cadets, new potential customers. The amount of money involved over that period of time... this was some high stakes shit. He takes a deep breath, looking at them. DUNBAR Dunbar moved his through the kitchen. I worked in the motor pool and hooked all the mechanics. By the time the hurricane hit, we were all in. Some using, some pushing, some both. But then something happened. West heard one of us was about to talk, to blow his whole operation. He figured he'd made enough money, had enough of the army, maybe it was time to disappear. But first he was gonna teach us one last thing. INT. SECTION EIGHT BARRACKS -- LAST NIGHT West, entering the,barracks, shouting the cadets awake. DUNBAR  He put us on the chopper and flew us to his cabin. And then he told us. INT. CABIN -- LAST NIGHT The six men stand in rigid formation, eyes on West. WEST Gentlemen! It has come to my attention that there is a traitor in our midst. Someone who was going to break the code of fraternal brotherhood that I have endeavored to create in all of you. Perhaps that failure is mine. But we take care of our own. And this traitor must be made to pay. He walks down the line of the six men, eyeing each of them. Finally stopping at one. Putting a hand on his shoulder.
91.		Nunez. WEST Run. NUNEZ Sir, I wasn't- WEST I know you were. Cadet  Mueller found the letter you'd written to the Colonel in your locker.  You were going to betray us all.  Now, run. He points to the door. The hurricane, RAGING outside.   Nunez looks to the others, then the door, and understands. He takes off running out the door.       Gone. West walks over to a table covered with a tarp. Pulls the cloth aside to reveal M-16's, PISTOLS, and GRENADES. WEST Now we'll see whose training's paid off the most. You are to hunt Cadet Nunez down and bring his body back to me. If you fail and he escapes, we all go down together. The remaining five cadets, understanding there is no place for friendship or kindness here. This is life and death. They walk to the table and gear up. EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- LAST NIGHT Lightning, thunder, and rain as Nunez runs unarmed through the thick brush. SOMEWHERE BEHIND HIM - The other five fan out, rifles up, following his trail, ready to kill. DUNBAR  He got Mueller first. Nunez TACKLES HIM at full speed, feet SLIPPING on the wet hill, and the two TUMBLE head first into a GULLY. Punching, kicking, biting, anything to stop the other man.
92.		Nunez, CHOKING Mueller as he strains to reach his gun... MUELLER Roberto... With a HEAVE, Nunez SNAPS HIS NECK.        Mueller lies still. DUNBAR  It came to me in a split second. Change clothes, change identities. If James Pike gets discharged he goes right back to jail. But if I was Dunbar, I could walk away from all this with a new life. But then... As he reaches down for the uniform, a SHOT RINGS OUT.
93.		KENDALL FALLS, wounded in the arm. Dunbar raises his rifle to find Nunez, standing ten yards away, gun trained on him. YELLING OVER THE HURRICANE: NUNEZ Put it down! A Mexican stand-off.   The rain continues to fall. DUNBAR I just want to go! Nunez shakes his head. NUNEZ You were gonna kill me, Pike!    Thought you were my friend! Dunbar, torn. He can't bring himself to shoot, but he can't surrender either. DUNBAR I have to get Kendall to a hospital! NUNEZ He was gonna kill me too! Silence.   The two men still facing each other. NUNEZ {CONT'D) I snapped Mueller's neck! He was my best friend and I had to snap his neck because he was gonna shoot me for drugs! For West! DUNBAR We don't have to do this! You go that way, I'll go this way! Nunez laughs. NUNEZ You'll shoot me in the back! DUNBAR You killed three people!    Isn't that enough for one night? More silence.   Neither moves.    The sky above, a maelstrom. DUNBAR I don't want to die out here, Roberto! Do you? Nunez, staring at him.     Deciding.
94.		NUNEZ If you even twitch... Dunbar nods. Nunez begins backing away, rifle still trained on him. And then Dunbar spies something behind and to the left of Nunez... West. Staring down at him from behind some brush.       Watching. Nunez, slowly backing away. He pauses as his foot catches on a fallen branch. Looks away from Dunbar for a split second to step over it... West nods to Dunbar as if to say "Go on. . . " DUNBAR Forgive me. .. And Dunbar FIRES. Nunez, caught by the burst, GOES DOWN. The echo of the gunshots, swallowed by the storm. Dunbar lowers his head in agony. West walks down. WEST Congratulations, Cadet Pike.      You get the gold star. Dunbar stares at his Sergeant through the rain. DUN BAR Fuck you. West smiles.   Tilts his head to Kendall. WEST You'd best get him out of here. Don't worry about the bodies, they'll be taken care of. Dunbar doesn't move. WEST This is where we part ways, Cadet. You tell them I died out here, or I'll come back for you. Tell them one of the others did me. Mueller, Childs, I don't care who. You and Kendall, you tell them a story.  You can tell a story, can't you? Dunbar doesn't reply.   West laughs and flips him a salute.
95.		WEST Dismissed.
dunbar		I guess Nunez wasn't dead after all. He came after us with a vengeance.  You know the rest.
hardy		And the bodies?
dunbar		You won't find them. Won't find West, either. He's too good.
osborne		No bodies, no West...
hardy		No death certificates.    No crime.
dunbar		Just four people MIA.    Silence.
jag lawyer		You'll testify to this, the corruption, the drug scam?
jag lawyer		We can cut a deal for you on the Nunez killing.
dunbar		I don't want any deals.
96.		JAG LAWYER If you're telling the truth, the PX requisition records will prove it- DUNBAR All the proof you need will be when West comes back and puts a bullet in my brain. But I'll do it. I'm a dead man, anyway. Like Kendall.  We both should have died out there with our brothers. I know that now. Silence.   The JAG Lawyer looks to Hardy, all anger gone. JAG LAWYER I'll take him now if you don't mind. Hardy nods. Dunbar rises and slowly walks to the door. Turning back to Hardy. DUNBAR Tell me, detective.   Did you get what you wanted? Hardy shakes his head, sadly. HARDY Not even close. They leave.   Styles walks over to Hardy. STYLES Tom- Hardy holds up a hand, cutting him off. Styles nods, understanding, and leaves, closing the door behind him. Hardy and Osborne stand there.   Not speaking.    It's done. INT. FORT MCKINLEY -- OFFICER'S CLUB -- NIGHT Several hours and bourbons later, Hardy sits at the bar, drunk and alone. Out of place, the only one not in uniform. Osborne walks in, locates Hardy, and strides over to the bar, a sheaf of papers under her arm. Her face, stoic. OSBORNE We need to talk- HARDY Seven. He takes a slug of his drink. OSBORNE What?
97.		HARDY Seven guys. What was it you said? You were "just starting to believe I wasn't the guy people said". He chuckles. HARDY {CONT'D) Seven. That's the answer to Kendall's question. How many? Seven. Osborne looks at him.    Realizing what he's saying. OSBORNE This isn't the time- HARDY This is the perfect time. You know what makes a good detective? The number of confessions they get. You're a good detective, Osborne. So now you get mine. OSBORNE What if I don't want it? HARDY Tough. He pours himself another drink. HARDY Thing about    taking money is, you don't have    to do anything.  You just sit there.     Maybe you don't return a phone call.     Maybe you don't follow up a lead.     But that's it.  Keep the money, your    work's done. Osborne stares at him. HARDY Seven unsolved murders. And you know what? It didn't weigh on my conscience. Not one goddamn bit. He takes a slug from his glass and grimaces. OSBORNE That's not true. HARDY There are degrees of truth, officer. Always degrees.
98.		OSBORNE You're a good man, Hardy. HARDY Really. OSBORNE Far as I'm concerned, whatever you did in the past can stay in the past. Hardy stares at her. HARDY I may not be growing on you, but you're sure as hell growing on me. He motions to the bartender for another glass, but Osborne takes his hand, stopping him. OSBORNE And because you're a good man, I know you'll do the right thing. Hardy looks at her, questioning.   Osborne takes a deep breath. OSBORNE Pike never made it to D.C.. Somebody took him off the plane before it left. My guess is he's already dead. Hardy stares at her. HARDY West? OSBORNE Nobody saw.    But I don't think so. She puts the papers on the bar. OSBORNE These are the requisitions from the PX, the ones used to release the drugs to Mueller. West signed half of them - Pike was telling the truth. Look who signed the other half. She taps the bottom of the paper. Hardy, not wanting to believe it. He looks up at her, pained. HARDY Do I have a choice in this? OSBORNE Yeah. I can wait till you're off the base and do it myself.
99.		Hardy stares at his glass.   Deciding. HARDY Fuck it.   Let's go finish this. INT. STYLES' OFFICE -- NIGHT Styles, finishing his paperwork. He rises and turns off his desk light, bathing the office in DARKNESS. He's about to leave when he notices a SILHOUETTE in the doorway. HARDY "You have to get out of the way of the bigger dogs". That was good. Styles squints at the figure. STYLES Tom, is that you? Hardy steps forward, into the office. HARDY It was so good, I actually forgot you're one of the bigger dogs now. The Base Commander. The one in control. You couldn't let him testify, could you? STYLES What are you talking about? HARDY If you let him testify then it would have all come out. West was supposed to take care of it out there, shut Nunez up and then disappear. But it got messy and people got killed. So you called your old pal Tom Hardy, figuring if worse came to worse, he'd cover for you. STYLES You're drunk- HARDY I'm not going to cover for you, Bill. Not for this. Styles, realizing what Hardy's talking about. STYLES Look- He begins to move from behind his desk.
100.		HARDY Stay where you are.
styles		Or what?   You've gone round the bend-
hardy		West had a partner. Someone who knew how to get things done.
hardy		What I can't understand is why you signed these. If you'd just let West take care of the paperwork, no one would have known, but you got careless. So when Pike finally told the truth you had to get rid of him, too.
styles		That's preposterous-
hardy		Toxicology report came back. Kendall's attack was caused by a drug known as anephadrine, maybe you've heard of it. It's for asthmatics. If an epileptic takes enough, it kills them. I checked with the nurses at the hospital - you're the only other person who visited Kendall.
styles		Wanted to see if he was okay-
hardy		You poisoned him, Bill. You heard our interrogation, you knew he was ready to crack, so you killed him, just like Pike.
styles		I'm not even going to dignify that-
hardy		No!  You will stand there and you will listen! What happened to you, Bill?  You were the one who joined up to do good in the world. You were the one who believed in it-
101.		STYLES You want to get into a finger pointing contest about character? The army kicked you out for drugs, the cops fired you for taking bribes from a mobster, and you think you can stand there and lecture me on codes of conduct? There's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you. HARDY Not for long. He walks towards the desk. HARDY No more witnesses. West's a ghost. But it doesn't matter because we have your signature, the hospital log, and Kendall's toxicology report. And that'll be enough. STYLES You're crazy- HARDY You can't duck this, Bill. I may have done every goddamn thing in my life wrong but I won't let this happen. STYLES For the last time, I have no idea what you're talking about- HARDY  Get your hands away from the desk! In the darkness we see Styles MOVE SUDDENLY... HARDY Osborne, gun! Hardy DIVES to the floor - Osborne in the doorway, PISTOL raised, FIRES TWO SHOTS! Muzzle flare lighting the room for a split second as Styles is BLOWN BACK against the wall! Hardy gets to his feet and flicks on the LIGHT. Styles lies slumped in the corner, two holes in his chest. Dead. Osborne lowers her weapon, shaking. Hardy points to the top desk drawer, which is open. Inside it sits an IVORY HANDLED PISTOL. Fully loaded, safety off. It's presence tells them everything they need to know.
102.		OSBORNE It's West's, isn't it? Hardy nods and then turns to look down at Styles' body. HARDY Now it's over. EXT. FORT MCKINLEY -- PARADE GROUNDS -- NIGHT The aftermath. Flashing blue and red lights from parked Military Police vehicles illuminate the grounds as M.P. 'S string crime scene tape around the front entrance of the building, securing the site for investigation. Hardy takes in the entire scene from afar. Standing by his GTO, watching as several M.P.'s finish questioning Osborne. When she's done she spies Hardy and walks over to him. OSBORNE What are you doing out here? HARDY Leaving without saying goodbye. What are you gonna do? OSBORNE Go home, get drunk, and try and forget this ever happened. HARDY Think it'll work? OSBORNE Nah. HARDY Want company? Osborne smiles. OSBORNE A word of advice about women - that first hour or so after they kill their boss? Probably not the best time to hit on them. HARDY I should probably write that down. OSBORNE Yeah. . Hardy pulls a card from his pocket and hands it to her. OSBORNE Your phone number?
103.		HARDY In case you need me to testify about the shooting. They'll clear you. A beat. OSBORNE He was your friend. HARDY Yeah. But he was a lot of other things, too. Thanks. She nods.   An awkward moment.      Finally: HARDY I'll see you. He turns away.   Walking towards his car. OSBORNE Hey, Hardy! He turns back. She walks up and holds something out to him. A ten dollar bill. OSBORNE I owe you this. He looks down at the money. HARDY You saved my life tonight. Keep it.  Actually, don't keep it, I need the money. He takes the bill and Osborne laughs. He climbs into his car and starts it. Grinning at her through the open window. HARDY You're one of the good ones, Osborne. Don't sweat the details. He puts the GTO in gear and drives off. She watches him go, then looks down at his card. Smiling. Maybe she will call. INT. OSBORNE'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT A bottle of Scotch at her side, Osborne slips a tape marked "BASIC TRAINING INTRO - SGT. N. WEST" into her VCR. Settles back to watch it. West's face fills the screen. WEST Welcome, Cadets. The art of warfare is simple and complex. Simple in its goal, complex in its execution.
104.		INT. HARDY'S GTO  They got their stories straight. . . EXT. LOUISIANA BAYOU -- CREEK BED -- LAST NIGHT 24 hours ago. The hurricane rages. A HAND pulls the PIN on a phosphorous grenade and CHUCKS IT. It blows, frying brush and nothing more. West comes over the hill, running to investigate. He stops at what he sees. Nunez stands unarmed in the creek bed, SURROUNDED by the other Section Eight Cadets. A prisoner. WEST What the fuck is going on? DUNBAR Your weapons, Sergeant. West doesn't move. Kendall walks over and DISARMS West, pushing him into the circle next to the terrified Nunez.
105.		WEST Is this about that little drug business you all are running? Yeah, I know about that, Roberto told me- NUNEZ Shut up!    Look, we won't say anything- WEST Fuck that. You little pissers really think you can throw a scare into me? Dunbar raises his rifle and SHOOTS NUNEZ. He goes down, twitches once and lies still. Dead. West looks at Dunbar. WEST You're gonna have to do a lot better than that, son. HARDY  I wouldn't know where to start. Kendall holds out his arm, gritting his teeth...
106.		HARDY  I guess it was about one man framing another...
hardy		And for that to work, you have to have a witness...
hardy		You only let them see what you want them to see, you make them believe...
107.		INT. OFFICER'S CLUB -- EARLIER Osborne, showing Hardy the requisition forms. OSBORNE  Make no mistake, the innocent will die. . . Osborne, FIRING TWICE into Styles.   As he hits the wall
108.		HARDY  There's only one criminal standing in this room and it's you. INT. OSBORNE'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT Osborne, watching the tape of West's speech. WEST Which brings us to the simple goal. For the true warrior, the one and only objective is to emerge from conflict unscathed.
109.		EXT. ROADHOUSE PARKING LOT -- PRESENT NIGHT
pike		All we gotta do is tell the story right...
west		Thank you.
110.		The screen cuts to STATIC. Osborne turns off the TV, extinguishing the last source of light. OVER THE DARKNESS: WEST  There are no conspiracies, no grand mysteries, no evil puppet masters behind it all, pulling the strings. INT. GTO TRUNK -- NIGHT WEST'S BODY, stuffed into the trunk of Hardy's car. HARDY Everyone's capable of murder, Osborne. EXT. CLEARING -- THIS MORNING Dunbar lays the wounded Kendall down as the Helicopter carrying Styles comes in for a landing. Dunbar wipes the sweat from Kendall's brow and asks him seriously: DUNBAR Are you ready for this? ROLL CREDITS FADE OUT
****Dialogues from script :Basic_Instinct.txt****

gus		Who was this fuckin' guy?
nick		Rock and roll, Gus.  Johnny Boz.
gus		I never heard of him.
nick		 Mid-sixties.  Five or six hits. He's got a club down in the Fillmore now.
gus		Not now he don't.
gus		What's the Chief's office doin' here.
gus		Maybe the maid did it.
gus		 It ain't the maid.
nick		 What was it?
harrigan		There's come all over the sheets -- he got off before he got offed.
gus		 That rules the maid out for sure.
gus		 I thought you said he was a rock and roll star.
gus		What's that over there?
nick		 It looks like some civic-minded, very respectable cocaine to me, Gus.
nick		Who's the girlfriend?
nick		Talcott doesn't usually show up at the office 'till after his 18 holes. What are they nervous about?
gus		They're executives.  They're nervous about everything.
nick		Do you want me to work the case, Phil, or do you want me to --
nick		I'm Detective Curran, this is Detective Moran.  We're with the San Francisco Police Department.
the maid		 Just moment.  Come in.
the maid		Sit, please.  Just moment.
gus		Ain't that cute?  They got his and her Pig-assos, son.
nick		 I didn't know you knew who Picasso was, Gus.
gus		 I'm a smart sonofabitch.  I just hide it.
nick		We're sorry to disturb you, we'd like to ask you some --
the woman		Are you vice?
gus		 Homicide.
the woman		What do you want?
gus		When was the last time you saw John Boz?
the woman		Is he dead?
nick		 Why do you think he's dead?
the woman		You wouldn't be here otherwise, would you?
gus		Were you with him last night?
the woman		You're looking for Catherine, not me.
nick		Who are you?
the woman		I'm Roxy.  I'm her -- friend.
roxy		She's out at the beach house at
nick		Thanks.
roxy		You're wasting your time. Catherine didn't kill him.
nick		Ms. Tramell?
nick		I'm De...
catherine		 I know who you are.
catherine		How did he die?
gus		He was murdered.
catherine		Really.  Maybe that's why you're from Homicide.  How?
nick		With an ice pick.
nick		How long were you dating him?
catherine		I wasn't dating him.  I was fucking him.
gus		What are you -- a pro?
catherine		No.  I'm an amateur.
nick		How long were you having sex with him?
catherine		About a year and a half.
nick		Were you with him last night?
catherine		Yes.
nick		Did you leave the club with him?
catherine		Yes.
nick		Did you go home with him?
catherine		No.  We had a drink at the club. We left together.  I came here. He went home.
nick		Was there anyone with you last night?
catherine		 No.  I wasn't in the mood to have sex with anyone last night.
nick		Let me ask you something, Ms. Tramell?  Are you sorry he's dead?
catherine		Yes.  I liked fucking him.
catherine		I don't really feel like talking anymore.
gus		Listen, lady, we can do this downtown if you --
catherine		Read me my rights and arrest me and I'll go downtown.
catherine		 Otherwise, get the fuck out of here.  Please.
nick		I'm sorry, Beth.  I -- I got hung up in Stinson.
beth		 How are you, Nick?
nick		I'm fine.  Come on, Beth!  You know I'm fine!  How the hell long do I have to keep doing this?
beth		As long as Internal Affairs wants you to, I suppose.  Sit down, Nick.
nick		It's bullshit.  You know it is.
beth		 I know it is -- but sit down anyway so we can get it over with, okay?
beth		So -- how are things?
nick		 Things are fine.  I told you. They're fine.
beth		 How is your -- personal life?
nick		My sex life is fine.  My sex life is pretty shitty actually since I stopped seeing you -- maybe I should think about my Electrolux again.
nick		 Sorry.
beth		How about the booze?
nick		It's been three months.
beth		 How about the coke?
nick		No.
beth		No?
nick		 No!  I'm working my tail off.  I'm off the sauce, I'm not even smoking anymore.
beth		How's not smoking?
nick		It's fucked -- now will you please tell I.A. that I'm just you average healthy totally fucked-up cop and let me get out of here?
beth		 Yes.
nick		Thank you.
beth		 I still miss you, Nick.
gus		Talcott's in there.  They're waiting.
gus		How'd it go, son?
nick		She misses me.
gus		 Hallelujah.
harrigan		Sixteen stab wounds to the chest and neck.  No usable prints, no forcible entry, nothing missing. No prints on the ice pick, either -- it's available at any Safeway. The scarf is Hermes, expensive -- they sell about 20,000 a year worldwide.
andrews		The powder was cocaine, high- quality, high-content.  He inhaled it; there were minute quantities on his lips and penis.  Mr. Boz leaves five million dollars, no insurance, no direct survivors. He liked his coke, he liked his girls, and he liked rock and roll.
nick		He liked the mayor, too, right?
gus		What about his girlfriend?
talcott		Is she relevant here?  I didn't know she was a suspect.
talcott		On what basis?
nick		Are you kidding me?
andrews		Bobby Vasquez?
nick		 I love it.  She's got a hundred million bucks.  She fucks fighters and rock and roll stars.  And she's got a degree in screwing with peoples' heads.
nick		Page 67, pop.  Do you know how she does the boyfriend?  With an icepick, in bed, his hands tied with a white silk scarf.
beth		I've asked Dr. Lamott to consult with us.  This isn't really my turf.  Dr. Lamott teaches the psycho- pathology of psychopathic behavior at Stanford and is also a member of the Justice Department's Psychological Profile team.  Dr. Lamott?
nick		 What if the writer did it?  What are we dealing with?
gus		Most times I can't tell shit from shinola, Doc.  What was all that you just said?
beth		She anticipates the book to be her best alibi.
beth		She's going to say Do you think I'd be dumb enough to kill anyone in the exact way I've described in my book?  I wouldn't do that because I'd know I'd be a suspect.
nick		What if it's not the writer?  What if it's someone who read the book?
gus		We've got a top-of-the-line, once- in-a-lifetime loony-tune either way you cut it -- that's what you're saying, right, Doc?
corrigan		Come on, you know there's no case here.  There's no physical evidence -- okay, she doesn't have an alibi but there's no motive.  Her defense would just beat us to death with the copycat thing.  Anybody who read the book could have done it.
nick		So what do we do -- nothing?
talcott		She's got enough money to burn this whole department down.
talcott		It's yours.
corrigan		It won't do any good.  She'll come in with Lee Bailey and Mel Belli trailing behind her on a solid gold chain from Tiffanys.
talcott		Yes she will.
nick		 No she won't.
nick		 I don't think she's going to hide behind anybody.  I don't think she's going to hide at all.
talcott		 I think you're as crazy as she probably is, Curran.
gus		You know what they say: It takes one to know one.
nick		Ms. Tramell, we'd like you to come downtown and answer some questions for us.
catherine		Are you arresting me?
nick		If that's the way you want to play it.
catherine		 Can I change into something more appropriate?  It'll just take a minute.
catherine		Come in.
catherine		How long will this take?
nick		 I don't know.
nick		Do you always keep old newspapers around?
catherine		Only when they make interesting reading.
catherine		 I'm ready.
gus		You have the right to an attorney.
catherine		Why would I need an attorney?
catherine		Do you have a cigarette?
nick		I don't smoke.
catherine		Yes, you do.
nick		I quit.
nick		I thought you were out of cigarettes.
catherine		I found some in my purse; would you like one?
nick		I told you -- I quit.
catherine		It won't last.
gus		You workin' on another book?
catherine		Yes I am.
gus		It must really be somehtin' --makin' stuff up all the time.
catherine		It teaches you to lie.
gus		How's that?
catherine		You make it up, but it has to be believable.  They call it suspension of disbelief.
gus		I like that.  "Suspension of Disbelief."
nick		What's your new book about?
catherine		A detective.  He falls for the wrong woman.
nick		What happens to him?
catherine		She kills him.
corrigan		I'm John Corrigan.  I'm an assistant district attorney, Ms.  Tramell. Can we get you anything?  Would you like some coffee?
catherine		No thank you.
talcott		Are your attorneys --
nick		 Ms. Tramell waived her right to an attorney.
catherine		 Did I miss something?
nick		I told them you wouldn't want an attorney present.
catherine		 Why did you think I wouldn't want one?
nick		I told them you wouldn't want to hide.
catherine		I have nothing to hide.
corrigan		There is no smoking in this building, Ms. Tramell.
catherine		What are you going to do?  Charge me with smoking?
corrigan		Would you tell us the nature of your relationship with Mr. Boz?
catherine		I had sex with him for about a year and a half.  I liked having sex with him.
catherine		He wasn't afraid of experimenting. I like men like that.  I like men who give me pleasure.  He gave me a lot of pleasure.
corrigan		Did you ever engage in sado- masochistic activity with him?
catherine		 Exactly what do you have in mind, Mr. Corrigan.
corrigan		 Did you ever tie him up?
catherine		No.
andrews		You never tied him up.
catherine		No. Johnny liked to use his hands too much.  I like hands and fingers.
catherine		I've always had a fondness for white silk scarves.  I have a very vivid imagination.
nick		But you said you liked men to use their hands.
catherine		No.  I said I liked Johnny to use his hands.  I don't give any rules, Nick.  I go with the flow.
corrigan		Did you kill Mr. Boz, Ms. Tramell?
catherine		I'd have to be pretty stupid to write a book about a killing and then kill him the way I described in my book. I'd be announcing myself as the killer.  I'm not stupid.
talcott		We know you're not stupid, Ms. Tramell.
nick		Writing a book about it gives you an alibi for not killing him.
catherine		Yes it does, doesn't it?
catherine		The answer is no.  I didn't kill him.
gus		Do you use drugs, Ms. Tramell?
catherine		Sometimes.
harrigan		Did you ever do drugs with Mr. Boz?
catherine		Sure.
gus		What kind of drugs?
catherine		Cocaine.
catherine		Have you ever fucked on cocaine?  It's nice.
nick		You like playing games, don't you?
catherine		 I've got a degree in psych.  It goes with the turf.  Games are fun.
nick		How about boxing?  That's a game. Was that fun for you?
talcott		I think that's irrelevant to this inquiry.
catherine		 Yes it was.  Bobby died.
nick		How did you feel when he died?
catherine		I loved him.  I hurt.
nick		How did you feel when I told you Johnny Boz had died -- that day at the beach.
catherine		I felt somebody had read my book and was playing a game.
nick		But you didn't hurt --
catherine		No.
nick		Because you didn't love him --
catherine		That's right.
nick		Even though you were fucking him.
catherine		 You still get the pleasure.  Didn't you ever fuck anybody else while you were married, Nick?
catherine		 Maybe I was guessing.  What difference does it make?
catherine		Would you like a cigarette, Nick?
corrigan		Do you two know each other?
nick		No.
catherine		No.
andrews		How did you meet Mr. Boz?
catherine		I wanted to write a book about the murder of a retired rock star.  I went down to his club and picked him up.  Then I had sex with him.
catherine		In the beginning.  Then I got to like what he did for me.
gus		That's pretty cold, ain't it, lady?
catherine		I'm a writer,  I use people for what I write.  You write what you know.  Let the world beware.
catherine		 Would you like me to take a lie detector test?
the examiner		No blips, no blood pressure variations, no pulse variance. Either she's telling the truth or I've never met anyone like her.
nick		How does somebody beat this machine?
the examiner		Ninety-nine point nine percent of the cases, they don't.  You'd have to be able to mask the truth from your own central nervous system, your circulatory system, your adrenal glands.  In my opinion, this woman is telling the truth.
catherine		Can I go now?
catherine		Can I ask one of you for a ride?
nick		Sure.
catherine		 Thanks.
catherine		 I'm tired.
nick		It's got to be tiring to beat that machine.
catherine		If I were guilty, and if I wanted to beat that machine, it wouldn't be tiring.  It wouldn't be tiring at all.
nick		Why not?
catherine		Because I'm a professional liar. I spend most of my waking hours dwelling on my lies.  For my writing.
catherine		 I love the rain, don't you?
catherine		You took a polygraph after you shot those two people, didn't you?
nick		I passed.
catherine		You see?  We're both innocent, Nick.
nick		How do you know all this stuff about me?
catherine		You know all about me.
nick		I don't know anything that isn't police business.
catherine		 You know I don't like to wear any underwear, don't you, Nick?
catherine		 Thanks for the ride.
nick		She didn't ask me for the ride. She asked anybody.
the bartender		Perrier, Nick?
nick		Double Black Jack rocks, Harry.
gus		 What you doin', son?
nick		It's my first drink in three months. That okay with you, pop?  She doesn't know me.  I never saw her before Gus and I talked to her.
the bartender		Here you go, Nick.
nick		Thanks, Harry.
nick		I'm sure.
nick		Now what?
nick		She knew she could beat it.  That's why she asked to take it.
nick		Come on, Phil.  You're not gonna let this slide.  What about her parents?  What about what else she's published?  At least we should get the stuff to see if we find anything else that's an amazing real-life coincidence.
nick		How did they die?  Was there an investigation?
gus		Not unless she got up in the ring and turned into one mean sonofabitch.
nick		 Fuck you, Phil.
nick		 Can you get me another double Black Jack, Harry.
nilsen		 Hey, shooter -- You back on the Black Jack, Shooter?
nilsen		I know that.  I had no doubt of that.
the bartender		Here you go, Nick.
nilsen		 Double, huh, Shooter?
nick		I'm off-duty, Nilsen.  You hear me?  I'm off-duty discussing a case.  Internal Affairs shouldn't have any trouble with that.  Maybe I should put in for overtime.
nilsen		 You do that, Shooter.  Why don't you send it to me?  I'll give it special attention.
nick		I'm gonna tell you once more, Nilsen --
beth		What's the problem?
nilsen		 No problem, Doctor.  Here comes the Doctor just in time to save her patient.  Take care, Shooter.
beth		You okay?
nick		 Yeah.
beth		 You don't look so okay.
nick		 What are you doing here?
beth		 Rookie cop.
nick		 What else is new?
nick		You want to get out of here?
beth		 Yes.
gus		Maybe it's for old-time's sake.
gus		 He ain't that way.  He's got heart.
beth		Don't -- please, Nick --
beth		Please don't -- don't --
beth		What was she like?
nick		Who?
beth		Catherine Tramell.
nick		 She said what you said she'd say.
beth		I met her at Berkeley.
beth		We were in some of the same classes.
nick		 Why didn't you tell me?
beth		I'm telling you.
beth		 You've never been... like that... before.
beth		Why?
nick		You're the shrink.
beth		You weren't making love to me.
nick		Who was I making love to?
beth		You weren't making love.
nick		 I need a cigarette.
beth		 I thought you quit.
beth		Top drawer in the foyer.  Get it on your way out.
gus		 He looks a little shrunk, that's all.
andrews		 We got a call from Berkeley P.D. There was a killing.  A professor. Icepick.  In his bed.  Multiple
nick		 She was there, wasn't she?
nick		What about me?
gus		You're already gettin' psychological input, son.
nick		 Shit.
gus		 Ain't you go nothin' better to do than to come in here and jack off the damn machine?
nick		 What are you doing here, Pop?
gus		 One dead psychology professor. Noah Goldstein.  Dr. Noah Goldstein. And guess what?  He was her counselor.
nick		Was she ever suspect?
gus		No, sir.  They never even got a statement from her.
nick		 Do you remember a case -- 1956 -- Hazel Dobkins?
gus		 Hell yes!  Couldn't get it outta my head for years.  Still can't. Nice little kids -- nice husband, wasn't porkin' around -- no financial problems.  One day -- outta the clear blue sky -- she does 'em.  All of 'em.  Used a knife. He got for a wedding present. Didn't even deny it.  Sweet as honey.  Said she didn't know why she done it.
catherine		Hi.
nick		Am I... disturbing you?
catherine		No.  Come in.
catherine		I'm using you for my detective. In my book.  You don't mind, do you?
catherine		Would you like a drink?  I was just going to have one.
nick		No, thanks.
catherine		 That's right.  You're off the Jack Daniels too, aren't you?
nick		I'd like to ask you a few more questions.
catherine		I'd like to ask you some, too.
catherine		For my book.
nick		 What kind of questions?
catherine		How does it feel to kill someone?
nick		 You tell me.
catherine		I don't know.  But you do.
nick		 It was an accident.  They got in the line of fire.
catherine		Four shootings in five years.  All accidents.
nick		 They were drug buys.  I was a vice cop.
nick		Tell me about Professor Goldstein.
catherine		There's a name from the past.
nick		You want a name from the present? How about Hazel Dobkins?
catherine		Noah was my counselor in my freshman year.  Hazel is my friend.
nick		She wiped out her whole family.
catherine		Yes.  She's helped me understand homicidal impulse.
nick		Didn't you study it in school?
catherine		Only in theory.  You know all about homicidal impulse, don't you, shooter?  Not in theory -- in practice.
catherine		 What happened, Nick?  Did you get sucked into it? Did you like it too much?
nick		 No.
catherine		 Tell me about the coke, Nick.  The day you shot those two tourists -- how much coke did you do?
catherine		Tell me, Nick.
nick		I didn't.
catherine		Yes, you did.  They never tested you, did they?  But Internal Affairs knew.
catherine		Your wife knew, didn't she?  She knew what was going on.  Nicky got too close to the flame.  Nicky liked it.
catherine		 That's why she killed herself?
catherine		 Hiya, hon.  You two have met, haven't you?
catherine		You're going to make a terrific character, Nick.
receptionist		She's on the phone -- she'll be right with you, detective --He sweeps by her into Beth's inner office.  She hangs up when she sees the look on his face.
nick		Who has access to my file?
beth		What are you talking about, Nick -- what's wrong with you?
nick		Who's got access to my goddamn file?
beth		Nobody.
beth		It's a confidential psychiatric record, it'd be illegal --She backs into a wall.  She looks very scared. He comes very close to her -- puts an arm behind her to the wall.
nick		Don't, Beth.  Don't lie to me.
nick		 It's Internal Affairs, isn't it?
beth		No, Nick, please --
nick		 Who?
beth		 Nilsen.
nilsen		What do you want, Curran?
nick		 You sold her the file, didn't you?
nilsen		 What are you talking about?
nick		 What'd she pay you?
nilsen		You're on sick leave, Shooter.  As of right now.  Pending the outcome of a psychiatric evaluation.
gus		What's goin' down, son?
nick		Nothin'  I'll be okay, pop.
gus		No, sir.  You won't.  There's smoke off yonder on the horizon.  They're gonna want your badge.
nick		 I got tired of being played with.
gus		 You sure got real conclusive ways of demonstrating that.
nick		 She knows where I live and breathe. She's coming after me.
gus		 What is it you got between you?
nick		 I don't know.
gus		Somethin', though.
nick		Yeah.  Somethin'.
beth		 I still have my key.
nick		I don't want to see you, Beth.
beth		 Damnit!  Don't shut me out!  You owe me more than that?
nick		I don't owe you anything; you don't owe me anything.  It wasn't memorable enough to carry any obligations.
beth		 Sometimes I really hate you.
nick		 But take my advice.  Put a little more life into it than you usually do.
beth		 I'm sorry... I don't usually... act like that.
nick		How could you let him have my file, Beth?
beth		 He was going to recommend your discharge a behavioral disability. I made a deal with him.  He could review the session notes himself. It was the only way I could keep you on the force.
nick		You did it for me.
beth		Yes.  I care about you.  I did it for you.
nick		 Please?
nick		Yeah.  Okay.
gus		One shot.  Close range.  Probably a .38 caliber revolver.
nick		 You think I --
gus		I don't son, but I got the minority opinion.
nick		Okay.  I went after him.  I lost my temper.
nick		 No.
beth		I'd like to sit-in if you don't mind.
talcott		I don't see anything wrong with Dr. Gardner sitting-in if Detective Curran doesn't object.
nick		Home. Watching TV.
nick		Yeah.
nick		Yeah, I was drinking.
nick		 A couple days ago.
beth		I saw Detective Curran at his apartment around ten o'clock.  He was sober and lucid.  I asked him in my capacity as his departmental therapist about his altercation with Lt. Nilsen.  He expressed regret and displayed no hostility.
beth		About fifteen minutes.  I saw there was no reason for my concern and left.
nick		 What are you gonna do -- charge me with smoking?
nick		No.
nick		Come on -- I'm going to storm into his office in front of everybody in the afternoon and then that night I'm going to kill him?  I'd have to be really dumb to do that.
nick		I don't think it's funny.
gus		 Well, hell, son, it's got a certain ring to it, I'll say that.
nick		 I'll get my stuff tomorrow.
nick		Beth.
nick		Thank you.
beth		It's the least I could do... considering I got you into this mess with those reports.
nick		 No.  I mean it, thank you.
beth		How do you know Catherine Tramell saw my reports?
nick		She knows stuff about me that only you know.
beth		 From a clinical point of view.
nick		What was she like in school?
beth		I hardly knew her.  She gave me the creeps, though.  I don't know why.
beth		Get some rest.  Promise?
nick		Beth.  I didn't mean what I said. About --
beth		 Yes you did.  I'm a big girl.  I can handle it.
andrews		 Take care, you hear?
nick		 Did you find out about her parents?
andrews		You're on leave, man.  You're on psycho leave.  I'm talking to a possible whacko here.
nick		You know I'm whacko, Sam, what'd you find?
andrews		The boat blew.  There was a leak in the gas line.  There were two previous repairs.  There was a five-mil policy on both of 'em.  A real heavy investigation.  Zilch. Goose-egg.  It was an accident.
nick		 Thanks.
nick		 She killed him.
nick		Catherine Tramell.  It's part of her game.
nick		You don't but it, do you?  She knew nobody would but it.  She knew I'd say she did it.  And she knew nobody would buy it.
catherine		I heard about what happened.  What good's a shooter without his gun?
nick		 How exactly did you hear?
catherine		 I have attorneys.  They have friends.  I have friends.  Money buys you a lot of attorneys and friends.
nick		 I don't know about that I don't have any money I don't have any attorneys Gus is my only real friend.
catherine		 I wasn't talking about real friends. Why doesn't Gus like me.
nick		 I like you.
catherine		Do you?
nick		 Yeah.  Would you like to come up and have a drink?
catherine		I didn't think you'd ask me.
nick		 I'm not that easy to figure.
catherine		You're not easy to figure.  I'm just very good at figuring.
nick		 Don't get too cocky.
catherine		Why not?
nick		You can make a mistake.
catherine		 Not me.
catherine		You should put some warmth into it.  You don't want it to reflect on your personality.
nick		Jack Daniel's okay?  It's gonna have to be.
catherine		Fine.
nick		Ice?
catherine		 Please.
catherine		Let me do that.  You like to watch me doing it, don't you?
catherine		Can I have a cigarette, please?  I told you you'd start smoking again.
catherine		Light it for me, will you?
catherine		Thank you.
nick		What did you pay Nilsen?
catherine		 Isn't he the policeman that you shot, Shooter?
nick		What if I asked you not to call me Shooter?
catherine		What if I call you Nicky?
nick		 My wife used to call me that.
catherine		 I know, Nicky, but I like it.
catherine		Cheers.  My friends call me Catherine.
nick		What did Bobby Vasquez used to call you?
catherine		Bitch mostly, but he meant it affectionately.  You don't have any coke, do you?  I love coke and Jack Daniel's.
nick		 There's Pepsi in the fridge.
catherine		 It's not the same thing, is it?
nick		 Where's it going?  What do you want from me?
catherine		Say -- "What do you want from me, Catherine?"
nick		 What do you want from me, Catherine?
catherine		 I brought you something.
catherine		 Aren't you going to thank me?
nick		What's it about?
catherine		A boy kills his parents.  They have a plane.  He makes it look like an accident.
nick		Why does he do it?
catherine		To see if he can get away with it.
nick		When did you write it?
catherine		 You mean did I write it before my parents died?
nick		Yes.
catherine		No.  I wrote it years afterwards.
catherine		 You're not going to stop following me around now just because you're on leave -- are you?
nick		 No.
catherine		Good.  I'd miss you.  You can get into trouble, though. You're not really a cop anymore.
nick		I'll risk it.
catherine		Why take the risk?
nick		To see if I can get away with it.
nick		How's your new book?
catherine		I'm getting deeper and deeper into my character.
catherine		Thanks for the drink.
catherine		I'm leaving the house around midnight.  In case you're going to follow me.  I'm going down to Johnny's club.
nick		 I'll meet you there.
catherine		 Hi, Gus.
gus		 Forgive me for askin', son, and I don't mean to belabor the obvious, but why is it that you've got your head so far up your own ass?
nick		 She want to play?  Fine.  I can play.
gus		 Everybody that she plays with dies.
nick		 I know what that's like.
roxy		 If you don't leave her alone, I'll kill you.
nick		Tell me something, Rocki.  Man-to- man.  I think she's the fuck of the century, don't you?
nick		How long you been here, Rock?  You like to watch, do you?
roxy		 She likes me to watch.
catherine		 Nicky.
nick		 'Morning.
nick		I think Roxy got jealous.
catherine		 She's seen me fuck plenty of other guys.
nick		Maybe she saw something she didn't see before.
catherine		She's seen everything before.
nick		She's never seen us before.
catherine		Did you think it was so special?
nick		I told her it was the fuck of the century.
nick		 What did you think?
catherine		I thought it was a pretty good beginning.
nick		How about Roxy?  Is she a fuck to the century, too?
catherine		 Do you want her to join us sometime?
nick		I didn't mean for me -- I meant for you.
catherine		I'm not as judgmental about women as I am about men.
nick		How's your shoulder?
catherine		Fine.  How's your back?
nick		It hurts.
catherine		We're alike, you know.
nick		Are you kidding?  You think this is my idea of morning-after conversation?
catherine		 Do you want personal insights and adolescent secrets?  I don't do those.
nick		You mean getting inside you isn't going to get me any deeper into your character.
catherine		Not unless you confuse my character with my body parts.
catherine		Were you frightened, Nicky?
nick		 I thought that business with the scarf was pretty nifty.
catherine		I told you I had a vivid imagination.
catherine		You shouldn't play this game.
nick		 I don't have a choice.
catherine		 You're in over your head.
nick		 I know.
catherine		I've got a book to write.  I'll see you around, Shooter.
nick		 What is this place?  Hillbilly heaven?
gus		 Where in the fuck you been?  I went over to your place.
nick		Easy there, partner -- I wasn't there.
gus		I went over last night, too.
nick		 I wasn't there last night, either.
gus		You... fucked her!  Goddamn dumb sonofabitch... You fucked her! Goddamn, you are one dumb sonofabitch --
nick		 I'm not gonna get AIDS, pop --don't worry about it.  I always use a rubber.
gus		 I don't give a... flyin'... chili- bean... fart about AIDS!
nick		 You oughta use a rubber, pop.  You really should.
gus		 What in the hell for?  You think I'm gettin' any at my age?  I don't like blue-haired women.  I don't like 'em.
nick		 You don't like punk rockers?
gus		 Say what?
nick		 You feeling better?
gus		 I feel fine!
gus		 How could you fuck her?
gus		 We got too many goddamn tourists comin' here anyway -- plenty more goddamn tourists where they goddamn came from.
nick		 I'm not afraid of her.
gus		 Why the hell not?
nick		I don't know.  I'm just not.
gus		 That's her pussy talkin' --He gets a real nasty look from a very fat woman eating a cheeseburger.  He winks at her.  The woman looks away from him, shaking her head.
gus		 It ain't your brain.
gus		 I.A. done did a track on Lt. Martin D for Dickhead Nilsen.  They found a safety deposit box with fifty- thousand dollars in it, taken out three months ago, used that one time.
nick		 It doesn't make sense.  She didn't know me three months ago.
gus		Maybe it wasn't her that paid him. Maybe the money was for somethin' else.  How the fuck do I know? I'm just an old city cowboy tryin' not to fall outta his saddle.
nick		You all right, pop?  You want me to drive you?
gus		In that little pissant car of yours? Hell, no.  I ain't gettin' no back pain disability retirement -- I'm gettin' me a full pension and a real gold-plate Seiko watch.
nick		Come on, I'll drive you in this thing.
gus		You think I'd let you drive my Cadillac car?  I ain't lettin' no hear-up-his-ass person drive my Cadillac car.
nick		 It was an accident.
nick		I don't think she meant to go off the hill, do you?
andrews		Full name, Roxanne Hardy.  Last address -- Cloverdale, California. No priors, no convictions.  The car is registered to Catherine Tramell.
nick		Gus and I talked to her at Tramell's house.  All we did was write her name down.
nick		 Yeah.  But you didn't tell me to stay away from her car.
nick		 Who are you guys gonna sell my file to this time?
beth		Hello, Nick.  This is Dr. Myron and R. McElwaine.  They've been asked to consult with me on this evaluation.
nick		 Number one I don't remember how often I used to jack off, but it was a lot.  Number two I didn't get pissed off at my dad -- even after I was old enough to know what he and mom were doing in the bedroom.  Number three I don't look in the toilet before I flush it.  Number four I don't wet the bed and haven't for some time. Number five You can go fuck yourselves because I'm out of here.
beth		What is your problem?  I'm trying to help you.  Why won't you let me help you?
nick		I don't need any help.
beth		Yes you do.  Something's on with you.  You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
nick		What is this interest you've got in her?
beth		My interest is in you, not in her. She seduces people, she manipulates --
nick		I thought you hardly know her.
beth		I know the type.  I'm a psychologist.
nick		 That means you manipulate people too, doesn't it, Beth?  You're a practicing psychologist -- that means you're better at it than she is.
beth		 I feel sorry for you, Nick.
nick		Catherine!  Catherine!
catherine		 I shouldn't have let her watch us. She wanted to watch me all the time.  She tried to kill you, didn't she?
nick		 Did you like her to watch?
catherine		 Do you think I told her to kill You?
nick		 No.
catherine		 Everybody that I care about dies.
nick		 It's OK.  It's OK.
catherine		 Make love to me.
nick		 Do you think she killed Johnny Boz?
catherine		 For what... to set me up?  She loved me she wouldn't frame me.
nick		 Maybe she got jealous of Johnny Boz, too.
catherine		 I don't have luck with women. There was this girl I met while I was in college.  I slept with her once.  She started following me around, taking my picture.  She dyed her hair, copied my clothes. Lisa something... Oberman.  It was awful.
nick		I thought you didn't do adolescent secrets.
catherine		 I never have before.
catherine		 Isn't it just beautiful?  I love it here like this.
nick		 We're still playing games, aren't we?
catherine		No.
nick		 No?
catherine		No more games, Nick.  I'm tired of playing games!
nick		Then tell me about Nilsen.
catherine		You won't believe me.
nick		Try me.
catherine		I paid him $50,000 in cash for your psychiatric file.
nick		 When?
catherine		About three months before I met you.
nick		Why?
catherine		I'd read about your shootings in the papers.  I decided to write a book about a detective.  I wanted to know my character.
nick		You paid $50,000 for your character?
catherine		I would've paid more.  I wanted to know everything about you.  Then you came down here after Johnny got killed... it gave me a chance to get to know my character better.
nick		 What about the other night. What about last night?  Was that to get to know your character?
catherine		 Maybe I'm losing interest in my book.
catherine		Do you believe me?
nick		 I don't know.
catherine		I'll convince you.
catherine		Hello?
catherine		It's Gus-who-doesn't-like-me.
nick		Catherine says you don't like her.
gus		 She's right.  You got an icepick in you yet?
catherine		What did he say?
nick		He asked if I had an icepick in me yet.
catherine		 Funny.
gus		 You know that stuff they say about how you can judge people by their friends?
nick		I don't believe it.
gus		Why not?
nick		 You're my friend, Gus.
gus		 I'm gonna make you believe in it, friend.
nick		 How old was she when this happened?
the woman		Fourteen.  We seal juvenile records until they're deceased.  That's why you didn't find it in your computer.
gus		What was the motive?
the woman		She said she didn't know herself, just sort of did it on impulse.  The razor just happened to be there.
the woman		That's what she said.
nick		I don't understand what the hell's going on here, pop.
gus		Ain't that hard, son.  This young farmgirl, she got tired of all that attention goin' to her little brothers -- she fixed 'em.  Just like 'ole Hazel Dobkins fixed her whole family -- except young Roxy here, she didn't use a wedding present.  She used Daddy's razor.
gus		It sure makes you wonder what they talked about when they set themselves down in front of the campfire at night.   You ever met any of her friends who hasn't killed somebody.
gus		It musta beat your ordinary everyday girl talk.
nick		I'm not sure anymore she did it.
gus		 Which one you talkin' about now, son?  We know ole Hazel did it; we know young Roxy did it -- and the other one Well, hell, she's got that magna come lawdy pussy on her that done fried up your brain.
the woman		Anderson.  Jack W. Donald M.  I'm sorry.  No Lisa.
nick		Did you check all four years?
the woman		Yes I did.
nick		 Can you check again?
the woman		No Lisa Anderson, detective.
nick		 Can there be some mistake?
the woman		 Only if you're making it.
catherine		Hazel , this is Nick.  I told you all about him.  This is Hazel Dobkins.
hazel		 You're the Shooter, aren't you? How are you?
nick		Fine.  Thank you.
nick		 Can I talk to you a minute?
catherine		 Honey, why don't you go in the car?  I'll be right there.
hazel		 Goodbye, Shooter.
nick		You like to hang out with murderers or what?  Did you know Roxy --
catherine		Of course I knew.
catherine		 Look.  Sometimes when I do my research, I get involved with people.  It happened with you, too.
catherine		Killing isn't like smoking.  You can quit.
catherine		 I've go to go.  I promised to get her home by six o'clock.  She just loves "America's Most Wanted."
nick		There was no Lisa Anderson at Berkeley when you were there.
catherine		What were you doing, checking up on me?  What for?
catherine		 Henderson.
nick		Henderson.  Lisa Henderson.  With an H.
nick		You do?
andrews		I can get my butt kicked for this. You're not supposed to be in here.
nick		It's not gonna take long, Sam.
nick		Bring it up, will you, Sam?
andrews		Hey, that's Dr. Gardner, isn't it?
nick		Bring 1976 up.
nick		You shouldn't leave your door open.
beth		 I didn't.  Something's wrong with my lock.
beth		 What do you want, Nick?
nick		 Tell me about Catherine.
beth		She told you, didn't she?
nick		 What did she tell me, Beth?
beth		 She developed a... fixation... on me.  She styled her hair like mine. She wore the same kind of clothes I did.  It scared me.
beth		Isn't that what she told you?
nick		She told me it was you.  You wore the same kind of clothes.  You dyed your hair blonde.
beth		I did dye my hair.  It didn't have anything to do with her.  I was a redhead for a while, too.
nick		 Did you know Noah Goldstein?
beth		I had him in two classes.
nick		You saw all the reports, Beth!
beth		 I was embarrassed.  It's the only time I've been with a woman.
beth		She's really sick you know.  Don't you know what she's doing?  She knows I went to Berkeley.  She knows I knew Noah.  She makes up that story about me.  She's handing you somebody who's obsessed with he her.
nick		She didn't hand you to me.  She doesn't even know who you are. She told me about Lisa Henderson.
beth		She knew you'd find out who Lisa Henderson is.  You're a good cop -- what did she do?  Tell you casually and make it seem irrelevant?  Did she tell you in bed, Nick? That's how I'd do it.
nick		Why did you change your name?
beth		I got married.  He was on staff at the clinic.  I was down in Salinas.  It didn't... last long.
beth		Nick -- Do you really think I... that I could kill someone... I never even met Johnny Boz.  What about Nilsen?  What possible motive would I have to kill him?
nick		You should do something about this lock.
beth		She's evil.  She's brilliant.  Be careful, Nick.
catherine		 Do I scare you, Nick?
catherine		 What's the matter?
nick		 I found Lisa Henderson.
catherine		Did you?  What's she doing?
catherine		You're not going to tell me what she's doing.  I thought we weren't playing games anymore.
nick		 She told me it was backwards -- she said you even styled your hair the way she did.
catherine		And you believed her?  I even went down to the campus  police and made out a report about her.
catherine		You still think I kill people, don't you?
nick		 No.
catherine		Liar.
campus cop		Who'd you say you were with?
nick		Homicide.  San Francisco.
campus cop		Don't you guys communicate over there?  You must be the same way we are.
campus cop		There was a report about Lisa Henderson -- January, 1977 -- the file's not here.
nick		What do you mean it's not here?
campus cop		San Francisco P.D. Detective Nilsen. Internal Affairs.  You know him? Tell him we want it back.  He's had it a whole year.
gus		So Nilsen had a report on her -- so what.  You don't know what the hell was in it?
nick		Catherine told me what was in it.
gus		If she's telling  you the truth.
nick		Don't you get it, Gus?  If Beth killed Johnny Boz to frame Catherine -- she wouldn't want anyone to know what happened at Berkeley.  It gives her the motive to kill Nilsen.
gus		How did she know Nilsen knew about it -- if it happened?
nick		He was I.A.  He probably asked her about it.
gus		She'd have to be nuttier than a twenty-pound Christmas fruitcake. She's not the one who hangs out with multiple murderers -- your girlfriend is.
nick		She's a writer -- it's part of what she does.
gus		 There's gotta be somebody at Berkeley who knows what the hell happened.
nick		I know what happened.  Catherine told me what happened.
gus		 You got goddamn tweety-birds flutterin' around your head, that's what you got.  You think you're gonna fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after?  Oh, man.
nick		How'd you get in here?
catherine		I decided to give you one more chance.  I missed you.
nick		You didn't not see me long enough to miss me.
catherine		Did you miss me?
nick		No.
catherine		Come over here and tell me no.
nick		No.
nick		That's below the belt.
catherine		Not yet it isn't.
catherine		But we're getting there.
nick		I have to do some research tomorrow.
catherine		I'm very good at research.  I'll help you.
nick		No thanks.
catherine		What are you researching?
nick		I'm writing a book.
catherine		 Really.  What are you writing about.
nick		A detective.  He falls for the wrong girl.
catherine		 What happens to them?
nick		 They fuck like minks, raise rugrats, and live happily ever after.
catherine		 It won't sell.
nick		Why not?
catherine		 Somebody has to die.
nick		Why?
catherine		Somebody always does.
nick		Hi, I'm looking for a Dr. Gardner?
one woman		 We don't have a Dr. Gardner on staff here.
nick		 Yeah.
the woman		He died -- about five or six years ago.
nick		 He was shot.
detective		He was walking home from work. They only lived a coupla blocks from the clinic.  Somebody drove by and shot him.
nick		What was the weapon?
detective		.38 revolver.  Never recovered.
nick		Were there ever any suspects?
detective		No suspects, no motive.  Unsolved.
nick		 Was his wife ever a suspect?
detective		 I had another one of you guys down here from Frisco -- about a year ago -- he asked me the same question.  What's this about anyway?
nick		Routine.
detective		Yeah, he said it was routine too. Now it's two guys saying it's routine.
nick		Do you remember his name?
detective		 Nope, can't say that I do.
nick		Nilsen?
detective		That's him.
nick		Was she ever a suspect?
detective		Nope.  There was some talk; it never panned.
nick		What kind of talk?
detective		The usual -- a girlfriend.
nick		He had a girlfriend?
detective		Nope. She did.  Like I say.  It never panned.
nick		 Thanks.
detective		I hope I helped you out.
nick		 You did.
nick		 Hi.  I missed you.  I finished my research.
catherine		I finished my book.
nick		How did it end?
catherine		 I told you.  She kills him.
catherine		 Goodbye, Nick.
catherine		I finished my book.  Goodbye.
catherine		What do you want, Nick?  Flowers? I'll send you some flowers.
nick		 Are we playing games again?
catherine		 The games are over.  You were right. It was the fuck of the century, Shooter.
catherine		Right there.
gus		 Catherine Tramell's roommate her freshman year.  I got a call from her.  I've been calling people who were in her dorm all day.  She must've heard I was trying to talk to her.  She says she knows all about Catherine and Lisa Henderson. She's over in Oakland.  You wanna come with me?
gus		You look like you seen a ghost, son?
gus		 Johnny Boz's psychiatrist has an office on Van Ness.  Guess who he shares office space with?  Dr. Elizabeth Gardner.
gus		What in hell's the matter with you?
gus		Where the hell you goin'?
nick		 I'm going with you.
gus		She said alone -- suite 405.  It ain't gonna take long.
nick		 Gus!
beth		What are you doing here?
nick		 Put your hands up!
nick		 Put your fucking hands up!  Don't move.
beth		I got a message on my machine to meet Gus here.  Where is he?
nick		 I know about your husband.  You still like girls, Beth?
beth		What?
nick		 Take your hands out of your pockets!
beth		What is wrong with you?
beth		 I loved you.
andrews		Lieutenant.
andrews		Thirty-eight caliber revolver.
harrigan		Lieutenant, you'd better come in here.
detective		There was no suite 405 in that building.  Catherine Tramell's roommate in her freshman year is dead.  She died of leukemia two years ago.
andrews		Thanks.
andrews		Ballistics says the .38 we found in her apartment matches Nilsen. No registration.  They're checking with Salinas.  The icepick is the same brand and model as the Boz weapon.
harrigan		We checked the tape machines at Dr.  Gardner's apartment and at her office -- both here and the one on Van Ness.  No message from Gus on any of 'em.  The one at her apartment was broken.  Johnny Boz's psychiatrist says he thinks he remembers Dr. Gardner and Boz meeting at a Christmas party at his house a year ago.
captain talcott		Congratulations, Curran.
a voice		 Hi.
catherine		I heard about it... on TV.
catherine		I can't allow myself to care about you -- I can't allow myself to care -- I can't -- I can't --
catherine		 I don't want to do this -- please -- I don't want to do this -- I lose everybody -- I don't want to lose you -- I don't want to --
catherine		What do we do now, Nick?
nick		 We fuck like minks.  We raise rugrats.  We live happily ever after.
catherine		I hate rugrats.
nick		 We fuck like minks.  We forget the rugrats.  We live happily ever after.
catherine		 I love you.
****Dialogues from script :Basquiat.txt****

waitress		What'll it be?
basquiat		Ummm. It'll be great. We'll live together in peace. What's her name? 
waitress		Gina. What'll it be?
basquiat		Pancakes.
benny		Hey - Willie Mays.
basquiat		Willie Mays.
rene		Nurse!!! Oh!!! Nurse!!! Carrot juice. Tofu burger. Rapido!
gina		We don't serve that - amigo.
rene		Fine... A greasy cheeseburger. Fries - and a vodka.
basquiat		 Who's that?
benny		The Devil, man. Rene Ricard. Art critic - writes for Artforum. People read him. Tell him who you are..
basquiat		Who am I?
benny		SAMO.
basquiat		Oh yeah..
customer		How's the special today?
gina		It's your stomach.
basquiat		Hey.
gina		It's me. I've never been done in maple syrup. Here's a rag.
basquiat		 Gina?
leshko		Alright. Look at you, staring at this girl, making a mess.
basquiat		How about those pancakes?
leshko		OK! Goodbye!
gina		Pipe down, Lech. Let him order.
leshko		You nuts? Let him order? You on his side? You're not such a good waitress. You get out, too.
gina		I just don't think you're being fair.
leshko		I need this?
gina		I need this?
benny		 Willie Mays.
leshko		 That's right. You go with them. Make babies
benny		Catch you later.
gina		What's a job, anyway?  What's wrong with you?
basquiat		I guess you did.
gina		Guess I just got sick of him.
basquiat		Can I walk you home?
gina		I think I could do that alone.
basquiat		Wait, I'm in a band....We're at the Mudd Club on Halloween. I'll put you on the list.
gina		I hate the Mudd Club.
basquiat		I'm clean. Smell me. I always smell good. I don't know why, I just do!
gina		 You do! You definitely do.
basquiat		Just come to the Mudd Club on Friday.
gina		I don't go there. Too many party girls.
basquiat		Party girls? Can I call you?
basquiat		Here, this is for you. I made this.
gina		Thanks.
basquiat		Hey, mom.
matilde		Do you like it here?
basquiat		I'd like it better in Hawaii.
basquiat		"She loves me. Oh yeah she loves me! She loooooooves me, Oh yeah she loves me!" Bring me some chicken, baby!
benny		Would you shut the fuck up? You hear what I'm doing?
basquiat		Yeah man. I'm jealous. You're always great, Benny.  "Her name is G-I-N-A Gina And she lo-oooves me." I did say chicken!
benny		Thanks.  Your dad called again - something about a job.
basquiat		 We're getting married. She said she could tell I was a great artist - she could see it in my eyes. She said she wanted to be by my side and have inter-racial babies with me.
benny		G'night... See you in court tomorrow.
bum		The guy just hit me and I was on the ground!!!! Boom, for real.
voice		Hello?
basquiat		 I-Is this the s-s-suicide h-h-hotline?
voice		Yes. My name is Chris. What's yours?
basquiat		Jean Michel.
chris		That's a beautiful name. French?
basquiat		Haitian. I'm going to kill myself. I'm taking pills. Reds, blues, greens.
chris		What? Wait a minute... talk to me.
basquiat		 Life doesn't... make... sense. This city's k-killing me. I want my liquid hijack Marlboros!
chris		What? Life's beautiful. Depression isn't permanent. Don't you believe that?  What is it - did your girlfriend leave you?
basquiat		No! I have a boyfriend. He loves me.
chris		You see? You have someone to live for.
basquiat		No, I don't. I'm alone. We all are. Especially here. The world's unjust. The respect fools get. The disrespect I get.
chris		What is it you want?    Respect? I have respect for you, just    for making this call. One philosopher said    "Sadness is a sin against the richness    of the world." Think about it. Feel it.
basquiat		You don't even know me. I want real respect.
basquiat		 Fame. My liquid hijack Marlboros and the moon and the cow that jumped over it.
basquiat		Boom, for real.
gina		I do.  I just said that. I was never here before. I actually like it.
basquiat		Let's get out of here.
landlady		Miss Cardinale... Open up for me, please!
basquiat		Why didn't you say so? Damn! She's asleep!
gina		 What're you doing?
landlady		Next Monday.
basquiat		Wanna go get some breakfast?
gina		A friend of mine offered me a job doing a little work installing a show in a gallery. He's an electrician. I was supposed to be there an hour ago.
greg		Jean, could you get me a Phillips screwdriver?
basquiat		A what?
greg		A Phillips head. From the toolbox.
basquiat		Yeah.
greg		Yeah.
basquiat		You don't have any!!!
greg		That's impossible. I've got, like, five of 'em!
rene		I need to make a call, Mary. You don't mind, do you?
mary boone		Certainly not. You can use my line.
rene		To Paris. Bernard Picasso -  You know Bernard -
mary boone		 Be my guest.
greg		Jean? Hold this, please.  You'll get there. But it's good to have something to fall back on. That's why I became an electrician. It pays the rent. Y'know, I'm an artist, too.
basquiat		I didn't know.
greg		I sculpt. I'm really just starting to find myself. How old are you? Twenty? You're just like I used to be. I'm forty-one. And I'm glad I haven't gotten any recognition. It gave me time to develop.
mary boone		 I can't tell you how happy I am with this show.
basquiat		 My name is Jean Michel Basquiat. Have you heard of me?
albert milo		 No. Should I have?
basquiat		I'm a painter, too.
albert milo		Really. Huh. Too bad.
mary boone		Excuse me, would you please move those tools?
benny		Come on, Jean. Get rid of your cigarette. Concentrate.
basquiat		I am... On Gina.  Fuck - I didn't think we were actually gonna do this.
benny		Concentrate on the ball. Shoot.
benny		You're shattering all my myths.
basquiat		About what?
benny		Your people.
basquiat		Oh - you mean black people!
benny		For a musician or a painter?
basquiat		Whatever. Famous. To where you can do your stuff all day without thinking about anything else.
benny		Ummm... Four years. Six to get rich.
basquiat		Come on. I hate this. I'm no good at it.
benny		Famous people are usually pretty stupid. You're too smart. You'd get bored to death. You don't wanna be like John Henry - fighting the machine. Just do what you do. It's about integrity. Follow your heart.
basquiat		Who's John Henry?
benny		Oh man! Folklore guy - worked on the railroad. Y'know, pounding in spikes and laying down track. Then one day they invented a machine to do it. And he says "Fuck that, I'm a MAN" and he challenges the machine to a race to lay down a mile of track. It takes two days. Neck and neck the whole time. They get right to the end, and he beats it by one spike.
basquiat		So then what?
benny		He drops dead! See? Just do your shit like you do it! Your friends like you, you get laid, everyone walks by, sees your stuff everywhere. It's good. What else do you want?
basquiat		Like I said - my liquid hijack Marlboros.  Check it out.
benny		What're you doing? You're doing something.
basquiat		He's the best painter in the world. I'm gonna give him one of these.
benny		Don't give him anything, man. Your art's worth a lot. Trade. That's what real artists do with each other. Besides, he'll just use you. He's famous for that.
close on		 The driver's eyes.  CUT TO:
bruno		 I think it's ok.
basquiat		You wanna buy some ignorant art? Ten bucks.
andy warhol		Ignorant art?
basquiat		Yeah... Like - stupid, ridiculous, crummy art.
andy warhol		Ohhh. That's new. That sounds good.
basquiat		Ten bucks apiece.
andy warhol		I can give you five. You didn't do very much to these.
basquiat		You don't even work on your stuff!
bruno		It doesn't matter how much you worked on
basquiat		I can get ten.
andy warhol		I'll take two. This one and... that one.  Can I borrow some money, Bruno?
bruno		Here. Do you have change?
basquiat		You made a good deal. Here, you can have these, too.
basquiat		I'll be right back.
basquiat		 Check you later, man.
benny		Hi Gina.
gina		Hi.
gina		 Basquiat, those are my best clothes!!! What are you doing?
basquiat		C'mon, baby, I painted them for you. They're beautiful now.
gina		I'm going to my parents this weekend. What am I going to wear?  How could you do that to me?
basquiat		... I'll buy you some new ones.
basquiat		Do you know what he's saying?
gina		What who's saying?
basquiat		Manzanita....  ... if one day I die, and    you read this piece of paper, I want you    to know how much I love you. Although I'll    never see you again, Gypsy, Gypsy, your    hair, your hair, your face, your face'
basquiat		 Come on in!
basquiat		Gina, don't you want any of this? You could use some.
gina		See you later.
gina		Basquiat?
gina		Jean, what did you do to yourself?
gina		 Don't do this to me.
basquiat		... What's the matter?
gina		 Oh, God, Basquiat, you scared the shit out of me. How the fuck could you do that to yourself?
basquiat		You're back.
gina		It's Monday morning.
basquiat		It's not Sunday? I missed you. You shouldn't leave me alone.
gina		You're blaming me? I had to go see my family.
basquiat		I'm your family.
gina		Basquiat, what did you take?
basquiat		Nothing special - just some weed.
gina		Basquiat, don't lie.  This is smack.
basquiat		You want some?
benny		We got beat.
basquiat		For real?
benny		You gonna carry that around all night?
basquiat		Yeah... I'll paint on it.
rockets		You did that, didn't you?
basquiat		I gave it to Maripol. She let me stay here for awhile.
rockets		Do one for me and it's free. How's that?
rene		 "The name of the game is survival, You learn it in jail upon your arrival!"
rene		Oh man, you a FINE nigga! You know that?
rene		 Oh my, there goes the neighborhood. Who's house is this, anyway?
rene		I gotta go pee.
rene		 It's fucking amazing. Motherfucker's got to put a crown on it.
rene		Naaaa. Poor thing has a little dick.
rene		Just look at him.
rene		MOTHAFUCKAH!
rene		I know that. Don't let him get away.
rene		Hey, wait up!!!
rene		You heard of Albert Milo. I made    that niggah. I'm Rene Ricard. Didn't    you read "Not About Albert Milo?" I know    who to hype. Baby, I'm gonna make you a    star.
basquiat		Can you put me in the ring with him?
rene		I can put you in the ring with him. Even book the dates.  But those big boys know how to fight. They
basquiat		Jean Michel Basquiat.
rene		Sounds famous already.
rene		Oh child... You got no respect. Didn't anyone teach you how to mount paintings?
henry		Ohh... SAMO. I've heard a lot about you. I love your graffiti.
basquiat		I was a kid then.
henry		 How much are these?
rene		You or the museum?
henry		It's for me.
rene		Five.
henry		I'll take it.
rene		That's five thousand dollars.  He's from the Metropolitan Museum of Art so suck my pussy, you star.
basquiat		You look fucking beautiful, beautiful.
gina		Well thanks!
rene		This is Jean Michel, whose work I told you about.
annina nosei		 Rene hasn't stopped talking about your paintings. Haven't I seen you in my gallery?
basquiat		No.
annina nosei		 You haven't been by lately.
rene		I didn't have the subway fare. My Medicare ran out.
basquiat		I don't know.
bruno		You're doing well.
annina nosei		I'd love to see some more of your work... Where's your studio?
basquiat		You name it, I paint there.
annina nosei		Well, I don't want to get mugged on a Bowery street corner. Maybe I could find a place for you to work. Take my card.
basquiat		You want a drink?
annina nosei		No thanks.  But I'd like one of these paintings.
gina		Who's that?
rene		You kidding? That's Annina Nosei. Jean's been in her gallery a thousand times.  He's only the biggest art dealer in Europe.
basquiat		I had lunch with him once.
basquiat		Which island of Hawaii do you want our house to be on? Maui? Kaui? Molokai?
gina		 I hadn't thought about it.
basquiat		 Oahu, Lanai, Niihau, Kahoolawee -
gina		Staten Island would be ok.
basquiat		Do you wanna marry me?
gina		Kind of a family portrait.
basquiat		Think so?
gina		You mean babies with you?
basquiat		What's wrong with me?
gina		You're your own baby.
gina		Who is it?
gina		Who?
annina nosei		Is Jean Michel here?
gina		No.
annina nosei		I'm here to see some work.
gina		Aren't they?
annina nosei		How much for these five?
gina		You should talk to him about this.
annina nosei		 Um... Do Rene and Jean have a contract together?
gina		I really think you should talk to him about this.
basquiat		When?
annina nosei		How about right now?
gina		 Be ready in a minute!
basquiat		Honk the horn again, will you please?
benny		What's the rush, John Henry?
basquiat		I ain't John Henry.
benny		Good.
basquiat		What's your fuckin' problem, anyway?
benny		 I don't really have any problems.
basquiat		Good. What do you have?
benny		What's your fuckin' problem? You get a girlfriend and a little attention and then start acting all uppity with me.
basquiat		 'Uppity?' Like as in 'uppity nigger?'
benny		That's not how I meant it.  For all you know, you might just be a flash in the pan! You can never tell.
basquiat		Hey fuck you! I deserve this shit. You're just jealous 'cause it ain't happening to you!
annina nosei		I've got to find the switch.
annina nosei		Here it is.
rene		3rd night I called    him 'boy' He sed "don't call    me 'boy'" "Well Then don't call me    'Boss'" That Was the end for us    and I've Been seeing him for    2 1/2 years. In kangaroo court I    want to be
rene		Oh man! That's one looks famous already.
basquiat		 I forgot about that.
rene		Fuck band practice... If you're gonna be a painter you're gonna have to break a few hearts - you don't wanna be like Tony Bennett..
basquiat		Tony Bennett... What do you mean?
rene		Singing on stage and painting in your spare
basquiat		I didn't know Tony Bennett painted.
rene		My point exactly.
basquiat		Yes, Boss.  If you're so smart, why are you here with me in this basement?
rene		You're news. I want the scoop. I write it down. When I speak, no one believes me. But when I write it down, people know it's true.  There's never been a black painter in art history that's been considered really important, you know?
basquiat		So what?
rene		So shut up and keep painting..
basquiat		 What time is it?
basquiat		That one's for you.
rene		Thanks... I'll take it tonight.
basquiat		I can't. After the show.
basquiat		Hey - it's the big A.M..
albert milo		Rene's been telling me about your work.
basquiat		I don't know.
albert milo		When's your show?
basquiat		Not sure. How was yours?
albert milo		I haven't decided yet.  Rene, you wanna come over to the studio tomorrow. I wanna make a painting of you.
rene		How about now?
albert milo		See you at your opening. Thanks.
annina nosei		This is Jean Michel Basquiat.  You've seen the SAMO graffiti everywhere. That's his. This is the true voice of the gutter.
cynthia kruger		We've seen the graffiti. I work on Wall Street. And I've heard wonderful things about the paintings. Everybody's talking about you.
basquiat		Yeah.
annina nosei		Here's a very good example of his recent work that's not spoken for yet.  He's got to work in a basement. He's got so much energy that if he worked in a place with a window, he'd jump right through it. Most of these are reserved already. After this week, this work will not be available.
tom kruger		 ... I don't know.... This one's nice, but I don't know if I could live with it. That green is so... institutional.
basquiat		You like it?
cynthia kruger		I'm fascinated by his choice of crossing out words that way.
annina nosei		Yes, well, they are more meaningful in their absence, no?
cynthia kruger		I like this one, but that green...
basquiat		Y'want me to make it a nice shit brown?
tom kruger		Beg pardon?
basquiat		Hi. This is Gina.
cynthia kruger		They're something like Dubuffet's... That... childlike quality.
tom kruger		I like this one. If it were just another color..
basquiat		Get a fucking decorator. If you buy one, you'll have to change your whole lives - maybe even sell your kids!  These paintings aren't even done yet!!!
basquiat		I'll take three big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
counterman		You want three Big Macs, two chocolate shakes, two orders of fries, and an apple pie.
basquiat		Forget it .I'll take six, no, seven chocolate shakes, an order of fries, a Big Mac, and two apple pies.
counterman		You only want one Big Mac?
basquiat		Yeah... And make it three apple pies.
big pink		How can I ever thank you?
basquiat		 I'd like to squeeze your titties.
big pink		Come on.
basquiat		Wanna Mac?
big pink		No, I'd like the scarf.
basquiat		Have a Mac.
big pink		I don't eat junk food.
basquiat		Oh. I didn't know. I'll take you to the best restaurant in town.  You'll miss a great meal and I'll keep the scarf, anyway. What's your name?
big pink		You're a fast mover.
basquiat		No name? That's ok. I'll just call you Big Pink.
gina		Hi.
basquiat		Hi.
gina		What's that?
basquiat		A present I picked up for you.
gina		It's beautiful. Thanks.
basquiat		 You look like an angel.
man		 Jean, man!!! Let's make a record!
woman		 You finally did it.
basquiat		Andy, man, thanks for coming. I'd like to paint your jacket.
andy warhol		My jacket? Gee, great...  Your show looks great. Quite a turnout. You look great. You kids. You drink red wine with fish. You can do anything! Make paintings in the basement of your gallery? First time I've heard of that!
basquiat		Yeah, I met her already.
mary boone		 You should be pleased. It's a great show...I'm having a dinner later at Mr. Chow's for Albert. You should come.
andy warhol		You'll like it. Everyone'll be there.
annina nosei		Jean, your parents are here.
basquiat		Hi Dad. Hi Nora.
nora		Congratulations.
basquiat		Thanks for coming.
annina nosei		 You must be very proud.
father		I am!
rene		How does it feel to have a genius in the family?
father		It feels... good!
basquiat		 I'll be right back.
tom kruger		We love our painting.
basquiat		Which painting?
tom kruger		The green one.
basquiat		Oh yeah.
cynthia kruger		We got a couch to match.
tom kruger		She's only kidding!
benny		Willie Mays. A Toast.
basquiat		Not now, ok?
rockets		Jean Michel, my man. Nice party. Should we step into my office?
basquiat		That's alright. I'm cool now.
rockets		A gift! I was just trying to give you a gift!
basquiat		I gotta go.
photographer		Of the painters, please.
basquiat		He said 'of the painters!' Hey - Albert! Get in the picture!
albert milo		Hey, Jean, I'd like you to meet my wife....and my parents. Mom, Dad, this is Jean Michel Basquiat.
esther milo		 Hello, Jean.
jack milo		Hi, John... Are your parents here?
basquiat		Well.  My dad's here with his wife. My mom couldn't make it.
esther milo		 No thanks.
bruno		 I'm especially interested in that one. I'd like to buy it for myself.
basquiat		I wasn't gonna sell this one.
bruno		You shouldn't have put it in the show. This is the one I absolutely have to have. I really love it.
basquiat		Sure, ok..
bruno		It's OK. Just have him bring you to dinner at Mr. Chow's later. We'll be there.
andy warhol		Bye, Jean.
rene		 You fucking little whore! You sold my painting! I'm gonna tell you something, brother - when you're climbing up the ladder of success, don't kick out the rungs! Believe that shit.
basquiat		I'll make you another one.
rene		Forget it.
basquiat		Rene -
rene		SHHHHHH. Later.  "What is it about art, anyway......"
driver		I really... admire you.
basquiat		Me? Why?
basquiat		That's great.
driver		Would you check out my studio some time?
basquiat		Sure. I'd be glad to.
driver		Here?
basquiat		 What's your name, man?
driver		They call me Steve, but I prefer Shenge.
basquiat		Nice to meet you, Shenge. Want a job?
andy warhol		Hi, Jean.
bruno		Jean, everyone loved your show.
jack milo		Nixon lives in Saddle River, New York.
andy warhol		Saddle River's in New Jersey.
jack milo		Saddle River, New York!
andy warhol		It's in New Jersey.
jack milo		New York.
andy warhol		I think it's in New Jersey.
jack milo		It's in New York.
andy warhol		Oh, I didn't know that.
albert milo		 You finish it.
basquiat		Bring him over sometime. I have some other stuff to show him.
rene		I'd like a glass of your best champagne, please?  This is an enormously important season in New York, and to make a false step could have severe repercussions for years. We are no longer collecting art, we're buying individuals.
andy warhol		Oh shut up, Rene.
rene		Everything's over your head, Andy. Even Mr. Chow's menu.  Thanks for not inviting me
rene		Isn't he great? Thanks, Jean.
rene		I haven't eaten yet!!!
andy warhol		Wow... That was a nice drawing, too, Jean. Maybe you should do another one.
annina nosei		 It's great that people are interested, but if anyone's going to buy anything, I'll handle it for you. Everything goes through the gallery, even if they come to your studio.
basquiat		Sure.
basquiat		I hate this. Turn that off.
interviewer		We're running a little late.
basquiat		Decipher?
interviewer		Yes. What do they... stand for?
basquiat		They're just words.
interviewer		Yes, I understand - but where do you take them from?
basquiat		Where? Do you ask Miles where he got that note from? Where do you take your words from?  Everywhere.
interviewer		 What are they?
basquiat		 It looks good like that.
interviewer		Hmmm. And 'Parasites.'  You seem to be a Primal Expressionist.
basquiat		You mean like an ape?
interviewer		Well, you said that.  You've got a lot of references from Leonardo da Vinci, don't you?
basquiat		Oh, that's a "Leonardo's Greatest Hits" painting. You like it?
interviewer		Yes, but as a black painter -
basquiat		I use a lot of colors - not only black.
interviewer		What?
basquiat		I'm not black.
interviewer		You're not?
basquiat		Not what?
interviewer		Not black.
basquiat		No, I'm Haitian-Puerto Rican.
interviewer		Yes, yes... Let's talk about that.... your roots... Your father is from Haiti, isn't he?
basquiat		 Yup.
interviewer		Hmmmm. Interesting. And when you grew up were there any primitives hanging in your home?
basquiat		We don't hang them at home, y'know - just in the streets..
interviewer		I see..  - yes, "the pickaninny of the art world."
basquiat		 Who said that?
interviewer		Why, that's from Time Magazine.
basquiat		No, he said I was the Eddie Murphy of the art world. He said the Eddie Murphy.
interviewer		Is it true that your mother resides in a mental institution?
basquiat		Are those the only two possibilities?  You wanna French fry?
interviewer		OK. One last thing. Is there any anger in you? Any anger in your work?
basquiat		Should there be?
interviewer		Tell me about it. What are you angry about?
basquiat		Mmmm. I don't know. I don't remember.
basquiat		 Can I have some caviar, please?
counterman		Yeah, it's the best one.
basquiat		I'll take the whole tin.
counterman		It's three thousand dollars!
basquiat		I'll take it.  Just the caviar - I'll get the rest.
andy warhol		When I was little, my brother and I used to have two ducks as pets. We called them the Rodriguez Brothers.
basquiat		I wish they'd quit writing this shit about me.
andy warhol		That's good. At least they're interested.
basquiat		Everybody's paying top dollar for scraps of paper, refrigerator doors - anything with a SAMO tag on it.  The other day, I just wanted a pack of cigarettes, so I did a drawing and sold it for two bucks. A week later this gallery calls me up: "Somebody's offering us the drawing. Should we buy it for five thousand?"
andy warhol		Wow... Stop giving them away.  I got an invitation to model for Comme de Garcons... You wanna do it with me?
basquiat		Yeah - I'd do that... You could teach me.
andy warhol		Gee. I don't need to. You're a natural. You should sign up with my modeling agent.
basquiat		Cool.
andy warhol		My dog, Archie... I woke up with flea bites... Creepy. I ran out and bought flea collars. They work really well.
basquiat		Let's leave this town and go someplace.
andy warhol		Let's go to    the Carnegie Museum. They have the world's    most famous sculptures all in these giant    plaster replicas. It's really great. It's    in Pittsburg.
basquiat		Ouch..
andy warhol		What's wrong?
basquiat		That girl looks just like my old girlfriend Gina.
andy warhol		Do you still love her?
basquiat		Yeah. I really blew it. I still think about her.
andy warhol		Well, have you asked her to come back?
basquiat		Hey George, what's up?
gina		So are you really friends with Andy? He seems like such a weirdo.
basquiat		He's not. He's out of town and he calls me every day. What's weird about him?
gina		Don't you think he's using you?
basquiat		Why does everybody say that? He's the only person I know who doesn't need to use me.
george		Would you like to see the wine list?
basquiat		Chateau Latour '64, please.
gina		So. Are you ready? I start Columbia next fall. Of course, there's like, a year of pre-med stuff, but - whatever. I'm really excited.  And: Rene gave me a job as his secretary. His poems are getting published.
basquiat		How is he?
gina		Pretty much the same.
basquiat		Wow. Congratulations. I hate that asshole.  Thanks for coming. I guess I just wanted to find out how you're -
gina		 What's that about?
gina		That is amazing. What year is it?
basquiat		George?
george		I'm sorry, Mr. Basquiat.
basquiat		See that table over there? I'd like to pay their bill.
george		I'm sorry?
basquiat		Yeah, just put their bill on my tab.
george		Really?
basquiat		Yeah.
george		Very well.
basquiat		 Baby, I think about you a lot. I'm really sorry about everything. You have to believe me. I'm serious. I wish, y'know, that we were -
gina		I don't believe it, Jean - they're picking straws.
basquiat		I wish you niggahs could get it togeth- ahhhhhh.
young executive		What's this for?
basquiat		The tip.
gina		You don't have to be sorry. There's no one to blame. Jean, you're a real artist. I thought I was one. You made me realize I wasn't.
basquiat		What's his name?
basquiat		 What do you think?
basquiat		It's always how you would do it. This is my version.
albert milo		You're right. It's your version. You should come over to the studio sometime.
basquiat		Why, so you could humiliate me?
albert milo		No, I wanted to make a painting of you.
angle on		 The birds. We see the statue in the middle of the park, but we have no idea where we are until we see the Mays Dept. Store sign. The birds circle in flocks, never lighting on the trees.
andy warhol		A little more to the right, Frank. OK... Good. Now up... You got a little more?
basquiat		What's with the wigs?
andy warhol		I'm going to send them to my friends for Christmas presents.
basquiat		You think those are good presents? Who wants an old wig?
basquiat		Piss painting?
andy warhol		I wanted to make a few more of these. Frank's been drinking this Mexican beer. It makes a good green.
basquiat		How come you're not peeing on them yourself?
andy warhol		I don't like beer.
basquiat		If you ever want me to shit on 'em, just ask. You could finger paint.
andy warhol		That was my favorite part!
basquiat		We can do better. It needed more white.
andy warhol		Jean, you make me feel worthless. You're so famous.
basquiat		I don't even have any friends anymore besides you. And everyone says "Warhol?
andy warhol		Gee. You shouldn't take it so seriously, Jean. That's why you can't stop taking drugs. You always think people don't like you. Everyone likes you.
basquiat		People are only interested in you because you're famous, not because they know a fuckin' thing about your work.
basquiat		When I was poor, everybody doubted I could make it. When I got rich, everyone said, `yeah, but he'll never keep it up.' Now everyone says `he's killing himself.' So I clean up, and then they say `Look. His art's dead.' I don't take drugs, anyway. I'm healthy now.
andy warhol		If you say so. You sleep until 5:00 p.m. You call at four in the morning. You never show up anywhere on time - if you show up. You're painting out everything I do!
basquiat		That's better.
andy warhol		I can't even see what's good anymore.
basquiat		After the show we should take a nice long vacation. Maybe go to Hawaii. That's what
andy warhol		That would be a pity because you're a real painter.
frank		Here's the poster for the show.
insert		 The screen is filled with the cover of the New York Times Magazine. Jean is featured on the cover, without his dreadlocks.
basquiat		Name?
brunette		Elke.
basquiat		Number?
basquiat		Name?
blonde		Monica.
basquiat		Number?
basquiat		Yo, Frank.
frank		This is really great. What a nice place.
basquiat		I don't think so.
christine		Would you sign one of those for me?
toxic		YO! Jean, this is Ramellzee.
rammellzee		Yo... You know why Rammellzee's here, don't you?
toxic		Uh-oh!
rammellzee		I'm here for an interrogation. You've been called a graffiti artist and I wanna know why. All I see are scribble scrabble abstractions!
basquiat		Boom.
rammellzee		Boom? As in ordnance? Are your letters
toxic		 Man, I was up on him years ago on the IRT.
rammellzee		You're selling and ending the culture. Not one bit of information. Only to get the money and growl with the power, man.
toxic		That's ignorant.
basquiat		That ain't ignorant - that's just stupid.  Can I get you a bowl of gumbo?
rammellzee		This interrogation is not over!
woman		Albert Milo? Ugh! He's just a pressmonger. That's all these people do.
rene		His early work? He's only twenty-six!
basquiat		Hey, Rene.
rene		Thanks again for not inviting me. I'm only here on business.
andy warhol		 What's a suede biscuit?
christine		 Hey, what's this? It says right here you're Andy's... "lapdog"...
basquiat		Here... Pull over.
basquiat		What's up?
basquiat		 That's mine.
kid		That ain't yours, man. Some asshole named SAMO did this.
basquiat		There you go. Now it's worth more.
basquiat		I'm SAMO... I'm SAMO...
the sea		 It is flat, dead, gray.  Ominous and waiting.
basquiat		Paint it out.
shenge		Out?
basquiat		Yeah... Maybe just his arms.
shenge		It's Andy again.
basquiat		Still not here.
shenge		- In this corner?
basquiat		 Yeah..
shenge		You want me to put it here?
basquiat		Use your fucking instinct.
shenge		It's Maria Portos. What should we do?
basquiat		Why don't you try letting her in, Steve - I mean Shenge.
shenge		Get up. She won't buy anything if she sees me working on it!
basquiat		Wanna bet? If you show too much respect for people with money, they don't have respect for you.
maria		 These reminded me of you, the clogs. I found them in Amsterdam.
basquiat		Fine.
maria		You remember Ellen?  What are you working on?
ellen		How much is something like that?
maria		Fifteen. Reasonable.
basquiat		It's unfinished.  How 'bout some blue in the corner?
shenge		Blue? Where?
basquiat		What's wrong with you today?
maria		I love these.
maria		 Who are you selling these through now?
basquiat		Well, that's better.  You can buy direct from me.
ellen		Look at these - silkscreens? What're you? Andy Warhol Junior? It's like - not even handmade anymore.
mary boone		Jean Michel... Crawling from the wreckage?
basquiat		I need a dealer.
mary boone		You have a bunch of them, don't you? Albert Milo walks in from another room.
albert milo		Hey Jean!  It'll never fit.
mary boone		It'll be ok.
albert milo		You better take a look. Why's your door so small? The ceilings are sixteen feet and your door's the size of a mouse hole!
albert milo		 You doing anything right now?
basquiat		Naa..
albert milo		Let's get out of here.
basquiat		See ya in an hour.  So what do you think?
mary boone		Bruno spoke to me already. We could talk about it.
basquiat		I'm here.
mary boone		OK. I'll be at your studio Thursday three o'clock.
albert milo		This is painted on a backdrop from the Kabuki theater in Japan. I painted it after Joseph Beuys died. A rebirth painting. I felt like he could've painted it, or maybe someone else was painting it instead of me. The Chinese calligraphers used to change their name mid-career so they could start over as someone else..
basquiat		Do you ever get sick of it?
albert milo		Of what?
basquiat		The whole thing - painting.
albert milo		No. It's one of the few times I feel good. I used to have to go to work and cook every
basquiat		What about the shit they write?
albert milo		You're asking me this because of the 'lapdog' remark. I read that. The person that wrote that has the compassion of a housefly. That's your enemy, not your audience. Your audience hasn't even been born yet. It's a lie that art is popular. The only thing popular about it is that it's written about in newspapers. I'm surprised when anybody comes to my openings. There're about ten people on the planet who know anything about painting, and Andy's one of them.
basquiat		I haven't felt like talking to him since that thing came out.
albert milo		As long as I've known Andy, he's never asked me for anything except to speak to you about getting off drugs. He's painted my picture, we've eaten dinner in God knows how many places together. But he doesn't care about me. He cares about you. You're the only person he cares about. He's your friend. Fuck that article. You want a toasted bagel with cream cheese?
albert milo		Alright. I'll be right up.
stella		 Hi.
basquiat		Hi.
stella		I've seen you before. I like your paintings a lot. Your hair was different.
stella		Some of them.
basquiat		Stand still.
stella		Thanks
albert milo		Where's Jean?
stella		He just left.
basquiat		B.B. It's me - Jean! What's the matter? No snow in Switzerland this year?
basquiat		What do you mean?
bruno		You haven't heard? Andy's dead.
angle on		 The duck lying in the street.
basquiat		Hello? Gina?
male voice		Who is it?
angle up		 Gina and Benny look out the window into the street.  Jean's a block away.
basquiat		Hey, come here! Please. Just for a second. Open the door.
basquiat		Open up! Open up!
guard		Come back tomorrow. Visiting hours are over.  Don't cause any trouble.
basquiat		I'm not here to visit... I wanna take her home.
guard		Don't cause any trouble.
street sounds		 BENNY  Willie Mays.  FADE IN:
basquiat		Willie Mays... Nice to see you.
benny		She's good.
basquiat		I guess it was a long time ago.
benny		Come on, let's get out of here.
benny		Sit down! You're gonna fall out!
benny		Drugs??!
basquiat		Medicine, man! Like health food. I'm taking care of my health!
clerk		You starting a hospital?
basquiat		Just ring it up. I don't need a bag.  Try this tabouli - it's great...
****Dialogues from script :Batman.txt****

first draft		 October 20, 1986
mom		For God's sake, Harold, can we please just get a taxi??
dad		I'm trying to get a --  TAXI!!
jimmy		We're going the wrong way.
dad		Put that away. We'll look like tourists.
jimmy		Seventh is that way.
dad		I know where we are!
voice		Hey, mister. Gimme a dollar?
derelict		Mister. How about it. One dollar?  One dollar, man. Are you deaf? Are you deaf? -- Do you speak English??
street punk		Do the kid a favor, lady. Don't scream.
nick		 Don't leave home without it.
eddie		Let's beat it, man. I don't like being up here.
nick		What, scared of heights?
eddie		I dunno, man. After what happened to Johnny Gobs --
nick		Look, Johnny Gobs got ripped and walked off a roof, all right? No big loss.
eddie		That ain't what I heard. That ain't what I heard at all.  I heard the bat got him.
nick		Gimme a break, will you? Shut up...
eddie		Five stories, straight down. There was no blood in the body.
nick		No shit. It was all over the pavement.
eddie		There was no blood, man.  My brother says... all the bad things you done... they come back and haunt you...
nick		Listen to this. How old are you? There ain't no bat.
eddie		My brother's a priest, man.
nick		No wonder you're such a chickenshit. Now shut up.  There ain't no bat.
eddie		You shouldn'ta turned the gun on that kid, man. You shouldn'ta --
nick		Do you want this money or don't you? Now shut up! Shut up --
batman		I won't kill you. I want you to do me a favor.
dent		... it is no longer enough to go after the small-time punks and petty criminals who infest the streets of Gotham City. Crime and corruption must be attacked at the root!
dent		If elected, my first act as district attorney will be to return an indictment against Boss Carl Grissom!
dent		 Together we can make Gotham city a safe place for decent people to live and work and play.
jack napier		Decent people shouldn't live here. They'd be much happier someplace else.
alicia		Anything new?
jack		The usual gas. If this clown could lay a hand on Grissom... I would've had to kill him by now.
alicia		If Grissom knew about us... he might kill you.
jack		Don't think so, angel. I'm too valuable. That's the way I've planned it.  And besides, he doesn't know.
alicia		You look just fine, Jack.
jack		... I didn't ask.
medic		That one there won't say a word. The other one's raving his head off.
eckhardt		Variety, huh? The spice of life.
patrolman		They found him hugging a drainpipe. He was scared to come off the roof.
knox		Great, but tell me: is this another you-know-what? 'Cause if so, it's the third one this week.
patrolman		 I dunno. What's "what"?
knox		Good answer. I'm gonna put you in for a commendation.
eckhardt		Oh Christ, it's Knox.
knox		Hiya, gents. This anything I should know about?
eckhardt		Nothing out of the routine.
nick		A bat, I tell you, a giant bat! He wanted me to do him a favor...!
knox		No offense, boys, but these guys are seeing something up there.
eckhardt		No comment. Print what you like.
knox		Come on. One question. Is there a six-foot bat in Gotham City?
jack		You didn't show up.
eckhardt		We had another bat sighting.
jack		I'm sure that was vitally important. Listen: things are heating up. Someone is leaking information to Harvey Dent.
eckhardt		I'm doing the best I can. If it's a problem --
jack		Eckhardt... our problems are your problems.
eckhardt		I'll work on it.
jack		Very nice, Lieutenant. But a little ostentatious on a cop's salary, don't you think?
eckhardt		 I answer to Grissom, punk. Not to you.
jack		You're a smart boy, Eckhardt. You should be thinking about the future.
eckhardt		Ambition.  Forget it, Jack. You'll never run that organization.
jack		And why's that?
eckhardt		You're a psycho, friend. You're an A-one crazy boy and Grissom knows it.
jack		Here. Use mine.
knox		What have you got for me, Jerry?
colleague		Hey Knox, you got a visitor.
knox		I'm real busy, Clark. Be a pal and dust him, okay?
colleague		This one you might want to dust yourself.
knox		... Vicki Vale.
vicki		How'd you know it was me?
knox		Honey -- I would know any randomly selected square inch of Vicki Vale.  If I had a good enough hint.
vicki		A nice, restful vacation.
knox		God, a girl could get hurt doing this.
vicki		I do get hurt.
knox		Got any more of those?
vicki		Nothing I'm at liberty to reveal here. What's new and hot in Gotham City?
knox		It's too good, Vick. We got a six- foot bat that swoops out of the night and preys on evildoers.
vicki		 Evildoers, huh? Big or small?
knox		Small so far. I mean -- they don't allow bats in boardrooms, do they.
vicki		Speaking of which... I hear the notorious Bruce Wayne is throwing a big do for the Harvey Dent campaign.
knox		Yeah. Hottest ticket in town. Every law'n'order freak in the city's gonna be there.
vicki		 No.
knox		Well, I'm starving. Will you at least buy me a hamburger?
vicki		Yes, but please -- be gentle.
grissom		Nine points ahead in the new poll. I don't like the way this is shaping up.
jack		We can always pop him. -- Or pop someone close to him.
lieutenant		Let's feed him to the bat.
grissom		He's going after our front companies. Specifically Ace Chemical. Which would tie us in with Councilman Kane, Senator Miller... on up the line.  We have to clean out our files before the subpoena comes down.
lieutenant		How do we go? The usual fire?
grissom		I'm thinking break-in. Trash the office, remove the relevant documents...
jack		"Industrial espionage."
grissom		That's right. And Jack --  I'd like you to handle this operation personally.
jack		... Me?
grissom		Hello, sweetheart. I wonder if you'd mind waiting in the other room.
jack		Why do you need me to handle a simple break-in?
grissom		 Because I want someone I can trust.
jack		I understand.
grissom		 Jack. Don't forget your lucky deck.
knox		How high up would you say that is?
alfred		I'd say about thirty feet, sir.
knox		You know, if you cut your bathroom in half, you'd have my apartment.
alfred		Which bathroom is that, air?
knox		The small one.
vicki		Some. I am a rich bitch, remember.  I'm quoting.
knox		Yeah, I guess we move in different circles. -- Though I did meet a one-eyed pimp last week.
knox		Commissioner Gordon! What do you hear from our pointy-eared friend?
gordon		Knox, for the ninth time, and you can quote me -- there is no bat.
knox		Aww, Commissioner. There's gotta be one honest cop in Gotham city.
dent		How's your luck, Jim?
knox		Mr. Dent. What's your stand on winged vigilantes?
dent		Mr. Knox, I think we have enough real problems in this city without worrying about ghosts and goblins and Halloween characters.
knox		My question is, where does one man get all this junk.
vicki		All over the world. They say he spends most of the year overseas -- until recently, anyway.
knox		Holy shit...
vicki		Just what I've heard. Rich. Reclusive. Old money and lots of it.
knox		Likes to kill?
vicki		 Women find him magnetic.
knox		I bet they like him for his big charity balls.
vicki		That, and the sweet smell of two hundred million bucks.
knox		Well, you know me. The more they've got, the less they're worth.  This guy must be the most worthless man in America.
bruce wayne		You disappoint me. Why not the world?
knox		I assume in my usual charming manner I've just insulted the host.  Alexander Knox.
bruce		Bruce Wayne. -- I've read your work. I quite like it.
knox		Great. Give me a grant.
bruce		I might consider it if you introduce me to Miss Vale.
knox		"This is Miss Vale." -- That felt redundant.
bruce		 You're just back from Corto Maltese. I saw your combat photos. Quite a departure for you.
vicki		That's intriguing. They haven't been published yet.
bruce		... You have an extraordinary eye.
knox		Some people think she has two.
vicki		Don't mind my friend. He's a little nervous tonight.
bruce		I don't... seek publicity. -- Will you be staying in Gotham for a while?
vicki		As far as I know.
bruce		Good. Then with any luck we'll run into each other.
alfred		Excuse me, sir. Commissioner Gordon was compelled to leave -- very unexpectedly. He asked me to convey his regrets.
bruce		Thank you, Alfred.  And you.
knox		I know the rich are different, but that guy is real different.
vicki		Oh. Sorry. I was thinking.
knox		What were you thinking?
vicki		Yum, yum.
knox		Well, he must like the way he looks. He's got a mirror in every room.
vicki		I get it. Bruce Vain.
patrolman		... anonymous tip. Tonight. The Ace Chemical Company.
gordon		 Good Lord, it we could put our hands on Jack Napier... Why wasn't I told about this? Who's in charge of the --
patrolman		Lt. Eckhardt, sir.
gordon		Eckhardt. Oh my God...
eckhardt		Shoot to kill.
safecracker		... Empty.
hood ii		I don't get it. If this place is cleaned out already, what do we need five men?
eckhardt		What are you trying to do, blow the collar?
gordon		 Any man who opens fire on Jack Napier... will answer to me.
cop		Freeze!
eckhardt		 Nice work, Commissioner.
gordon		I'm in charge here. Not Carl Grissom.
cop		LOOK!
gordon		My God... it's him.
voice		HOLD IT!
jack's voice		ECKHARDT!!
gordon		NO!!
cop		LOOK!
gordon		HOLD YOUR FIRE!
cop		... Who is this guy?
gordon		I don't know, but he's one hell of a showman.
knox		Commissioner. Do us both a favor. Don't tell me some lie you'll have to retract later.
vicki		Guess who's got a date with Bruce Wayne.
knox		Bruce Wayne? Date? He called you up and asked you for a date?... Shit.  I want you to pay close attention to this. Miranda -- tell my friend here what you told me about Bruce Wayne.
miranda		You mean Mister One-Nighter?
knox		Yeah. "Mister One-Nighter."  Because that's the average length of his relationships with women.
miranda		The current record is almost two weeks. That cover girl -- what's her name? You must've shot her, Vicki --
knox		Tell her about the peanuts.
vicki		Peanuts?
knox		Yeah. Peanuts. Which is how he goes through women.
miranda		Like Planter's Peanuts.
vicki		Plain or roasted?  Alex, I'm very flattered that you've gone out and done all this research.
knox		Why?  Aw, come on, Vicki, I'm a reporter. I'm curious. I do this for a living. -- What'd you tell him?
vicki		I told him yes.
knox		... What was that?
miranda		That was one of the most gracious fuck-yous it's ever been my pleasure to watch. -- What a nice girl.
knox		Miranda, I'm busy. Go be productive.
vicki		Do you sail?
bruce		Too much work. I'm not really the physical type. -- Thank you, Alfred.
vicki		You do a very convincing imitation.  Mm, this is tasty. What's yours?
bruce		Two drinks and I start swinging from the rooftops.  Tell me, Vicki. There's something I'm very curious about. What took you down to Corto Maltese?
vicki		... I guess I needed a change.
bruce		You were one of the most successful magazine photographers in the city. Everyone wanted you.
vicki		Have you ever been to Corto Maltese?
bruce		Not since the shooting started.
vicki		We went there once when I was little. I played on the beach. And at nights -- they had a band -- I danced with my father on the hotel patio.  That was Corto Maltese. When the war broke out I had to go back. And I promised myself that this time... I wouldn't look away.
bruce		What did you see?
vicki		... Terror.
bruce		There's terror everywhere. Some types are just more -- familiar than others.
vicki		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to -- I know it all seems a million miles away, out here on the water, with all this --
bruce		Insulation?
vicki		Bruce, really, when I say these things I don't mean to criticize you.
bruce		I think you see things very clearly.
vicki		I'm happy to talk about something else. I don't want to be depressing.
bruce		 Do you assume that if I know you better I won't like you as much?
vicki		I'm sorry, Bruce, I have to ask. Are you like this with the other women you know? -- Because I just can't seem to get a handle on this conversation.
bruce		 Vicki, if I say anything cryptic, or... ambiguous, I think you should put the most flattering possible interpretation on it. Because even if it doesn't sound that way... that's how I'll mean it.
vicki		-- but it's not fair. I'm half drunk and you're not even --
bruce		Would you like me to take you home?
vicki		God. You would.  Come on, Bruce. I just want to get two drinks in you. As an experiment.
bruce		Maybe we should just kiss.
vicki		... We could try that.
doctor		Well, Mr. Napier, let's see how we did.
doctor		You understand the facial muscles were completely severed --
kid		Nice hair, dude!
jack		It's me. "Sugar Bumps."
grissom		 Thank God. I can't believe it's you. I heard you'd been --
jack		 Is that what you "heard"?
grissom		Sooner or later you would've tried to take me, Jack. You may get me now, but your life won't be worth a dime.
jack		I've died once already. It wasn't so bad. -- In fact I recommend it.
grissom		Jack, listen -- we'll cut a deal --
jack		JACK? JACK? DO I LOOK LIKE A JACK??
grissom		Jack -- I'm warning you. WIPE THAT LUNATIC GRIN OFF YOUR FACE.
jack		HA! That's the best part. I CAN'T!!
joker		What a view. Our little city. It always brings a smile to my face.
vicki		I didn't mean to scare you. I just had to come in here and see it that was really you singing.
bruce		I don't sing very well.
vicki		Then there's one thing in the world you don't do very well. And I know what it is. -- Now you'll have to kill me.
knox		 ...Peanut.
copy boy		Here's that morgue file you wanted.
knox		Come on. Gimme some dirt!
doorman		Miss Hunt!  No need to sneak in. The rent's been taken care of.
alicia		... The rent? Paid?
voice		Honey -- I'm home!
gang boss		So why don't we hear this from Grissom?
racketeer		I got something I'd like to know. How come you're wearing that stupid smirk?
joker		'Cause I got an army, chum. And I got Grissom's army. And this city is mine.
rotelli		I don't like taking orders, from Grissom. And I especially don't like taking orders from Grissom's goon.
joker		I've considered that possibility.
rotelli		And what happens if we say no?
joker		 Nobody wants a war, Carmine. If we can't do business, we shake hands and part friends.
rotelli		That's it?
joker		That's it.
crimelord		... You're insane!
joker		That's what they said about Lee Iacocca. Now GET OUT OF HERE. -- And THINK IT OVER!
vicki		... To tell you the truth, I'd just about given up waiting.
bruce		I said I'd call you the minute I got free. And I did. -- And here we are.
vicki		 Hm hmm. Lunch. Not even dinner.
bruce		Vicki. Do you want the whole truth? All coyness aside?  Now. Are you going to waste this lovely afternoon being all mad at me?
vicki		Okay, I'm a sucker. You sound so much like someone I used to...  Bruce? I know this is silly, but -- you're not married, are you?
vicki		All street mimes should be executed.
bruce		... Looks like a convention.
vicki		BRUCE!!
bruce		Oh my God... are you all right?
anchorwoman		... live from Halliday Plaza, where a gangland-style execution claimed the life of racketeer Philly Ricorso. Ricorso's death is the third in a rash of underworld killings...
joker		All reet! I think it's about time we called another meeting, huh?
alfred		I'm sorry, Miss Vale. I've given him your messages. That's all I can do.
vicki		Please tell him... I'm not trying to make his life difficult. I'd just -- I'd just like to know what's going on.
knox		Hiya, peanut. I got something I'd like you to see.
knox		Okay, here we go. Check it out.
vicki		Oh my God... I've seen this picture.
vicki		His face. Allie, look at his face.
knox		Yep. He watched the whole thing happen. -- Recognize the beat cop? Jim Gordon.
vicki		Oh, Bruce...
knox		Something like this -- what do you suppose this could drive a guy to?
vicki		Alexander, you are on drugs.
knox		He walks out on his own party. Half an hour later, the Caped Crusader turns up in full bat-drag.  Yeah, Vicki, he's "married" all right.
vicki		You're pissing me off, Allie. I know exactly why you're doing this.
knox		 Oh? Why is that, Vicki?
vicki		He's best friends with Jim Gordon and Harvey Dent. They would know.
knox		... Okay, Vicki, I have a confession to make. I'm the Batman.
vicki		Alexander... I know you.
knox		Right. And they know him. And that's why it would never occur to them for a minute that their old buddy Bruce puts on a cape at night and goes out looking for --
vicki		This is pointless. I'm leaving.
knox		 Next time you call him up and he can't go out Friday night -- think it over.
joker		How's that first shipment coming?
joker		Mmm. How'd you find it?
claire		... of course, after Corto Maltese, this must all seem pretty tame.
vicki		Not to me. I need a job.
claire		Now Vicki. Everyone knows you've got your hooks in Bruce Wayne.
vicki		Then "everyone" must know something I don't.
claire		 Oh. Really. Well. -- Come on, dear, Tony's dying to see you.
tony		Yes, ladies, smiles, show me those smiles, fabulous, tropical smiles, think Tahiti, I want to see teeth, yes, those glorious teeth --
patsy		The fashion world was stunned today by the sudden deaths of top models Kelly Brinkley and Christie Emberg. Cause of death has been attributed to a violent allergic reaction, although authorities have not yet ruled out the possibility of drug use. Dave?
dave		In Gotham, plans continue for the city's 300th birthday celebration. The four-day event will conclude with the unveiling, in Gotham Harbor, of the newly restored 'Lady Gotham'...
director		WHERE'S IT COMING FROM??
technician		I DON'T KNOW!
joker		... new improved Joker brand. With the secret ingredient... SMYLENOL!  Let's go to our blind taste test.
joker		I know what you're saying. Where can I buy these fine, fine products? Well, that's the gag, folks, you never know. Chances are... you've bought 'em already!!!
alfred		... Sir!
joker		Baby's got a tummyache? Here's something that'll fix him quick!
anchorwoman		... sixteen new deaths, with no clues as to the Joker's identity or demands. The list at potentially lethal products now includes: perfume -- mascara -- cold cream --
anchorman		Men's cologne toothpaste mouthwash -- underarm deodorant --
anchorwoman		Hair spray -- eyebrow pencil -- moisturizing cream --
voice		She's outside the Fluegelheim.
alicia		Jack? Who was that?
joker		Get dressed. We're going out.
vicki		I'm meeting Mr. Wayne. Is he here?
waiter		Miss Vale, this just arrived for you.
joker		Okay, boys, let's broaden our minds.
joker		I think it's safe to take that off.
vicki		... Thank you.
joker		Unfortunate, but I think we can work around it.
vicki		And you want a --
joker		A visual record, yes. A before-and- after kind of thing.  This could make your reputation.
vicki		Maybe we should start with a portrait of the artist. People might like to see the face behind the makeup.
joker		 ... Behind the makeup?
vicki		I've seen worse. Much worse.
joker		Strong stomach, huh? I like that in a woman. -- Maybe we can do business after all.
voice		Jack?
joker		 WHAT?
alicia		You said I could look at the pictures before you -- before you --
joker		Shucks, honey, I forgot.  This is business, sweetie. Why don't you go outside and see how the boys are coming?
vicki		 ... Why the mask?
joker		Alicia! Come here, have a seat. Show Miss Vale why you wear the mask.
vicki		You SCUM! You SICK FILTH!... You DID THAT to her!
joker		What? I improved her a little...
vicki		I'll see you burn. I'll see you dead. -- GET AWAY FROM ME!!
joker		Miss Vale, was it something I said?  Do you want to sniff my flower?
vicki		NO!
joker		Come on, Miss Vale... STOP AND SMELL THE ROSES!!
batman		GET IN THE CAR!
vicki		WHICH CAR?
batman		Ignition!
computer		Ignition.
joker		I WANT HIM!! I WANT HIM!!
vicki		Look! Police!
batman		I called them.
vicki		Shouldn't we --
goon		There they are! Dead ahead!
joker		ALL UNITS! SOUTHBOUND ON RIVERVIEW!
vicki		What about her? What about the girl?
batman		He won't kill her.  GODDAMMIT!
vicki		Can't we --
batman		Too many people. Come on!  SHIELDS!!
computer		Shields.
joker		... I don't know. We'd better get out of here.  Westbound on 36th. DO YOU COPY??
batman		How much do you weigh?
vicki		... A hundred and eight?
batman		HANG ON!
goon ii		Jesus.
goon iii		Wait a minute.
goon iv		... What is that?
goon iii		Some kind of body armor.
goon ii		I dunno. You seen him before?
goon iii		Maybe he's got some kind of I.D.
goon iv		Good idea. Let's check his wallet.
goon iii		Goddam, it's the redhead!
goon ii		Did you hit her?
batman		... Not even a 'thank you'?
vicki		Well -- I think you might consider thanking me. You were good as dead.
batman		That's because you lied about your weight.  Thank you.
vicki		I just wanted to distract them. I wasn't trying to get a picture of you.
batman		Please.
vicki		I won't let you have it.
batman		The Joker is a murderer. And you were as good as dead. So --
vicki		Look, I appreciate what you did for me. But this is my job. And I'm keeping those pictures.
batman		All right, here's a compromise. I'll develop the photos. You keep the Jokers and I'll keep the rest.
vicki		How do I know you won't keep them all?
batman		Because I'll take you with me.
vicki		... Where are you going to take me?
batman		Shields open.
computer		Shields open.
computer		Ignition.
cop		There's somebody in there!
batman		STOP!
vicki		... How long have I been out?
batman		Quite a while. I took the scenic route.
vicki		 Well, I've certainly enjoyed it. What's that?
batman		Garage door.
vicki		I meant to ask you. Up on the roof -- how did you know my name?
vicki		What is this stuff? Kevlar?
batman		Better. It's not on the market yet.
vicki		It doesn't protect your head, though.
batman		That's why I wear a target on my chest.
vicki		How'd you find this place?
batman		Stumbled across it when I was a boy.
vicki		I don't like bats. Not that kind.
batman		They used to terrify me. But I forced myself to keep coming back, and --  -- I guess I became the thing I feared the most. I'll do your photos now.
vicki		Who pays for all this?
batman		I have sponsors.
vicki		The computers?
batman		I'm running a check on the tainted products. There is a pattern. Beauty products. Personal hygiene.
vicki		No more makeup. -- Looks like we'll all be showing our true faces now.
batman		I've tracked all the records. Every shipment, every warehouse, every loading dock. Nothing. No opportunities for tampering. Somehow the Joker is supplying tainted ingredients... at the source.
vicki		Wait. You can just tap into any corporate database you want? Anywhere?
batman		Oh, no. I let the FBI do that. Then I tap into the FBI. -- Your photos are ready.
vicki		You could've killed him, you know. You could have killed the Joker.
batman		I had to save you, Vicki.  Here you go. I think I'll let you keep the whole set.
vicki		... Bruce?
batman		Are you talking to me?
bruce		Vicki, I've been thinking about you.  I know it's late. I'm sorry. I -- Are you there?
vicki		Yes, Bruce -- I'm here --
bruce		I'm sorry about the way things went between us. I'd very much like to see you again.
vicki		Well, Bruce... I don't think... that would be possible.
bruce		I wish you'd reconsider.  I didn't stand you up today. The museum was closed when I got there.
vicki		I, uh...
knox		Vicki, it all fits. The stuff you're telling me -- the car, the equipment -- somebody's paying for it.
vicki		I just can't --
knox		The FBI. You know who's got the FBI computer contract? Wayne Technologies.  The guy's bats all right. He's bat shit crazy. This is gonna be the most incredible --
vicki		But he's not.
knox		Not what?
vicki		He's not crazy.
knox		Vicki. We got a wealthy millionaire here... who dresses up like a bat. He goes out at night and swings around -- in his cape -- on a rope.  Okay. Maybe I'm crazy.
vicki		Allie... he wants to tell me. That's why he took me there. Because he's trying to tell me.
knox		Gimme a break. If he wants to chat, he can talk to his car.
vicki		He has to tell someone. And I'm the one. He's trying to tell me.
knox		Well, when he does you know my number.
bruce		Don't sell. It won't last. We'll ride it out.
wailing colleague		... a nine-million-dollar bath!
bruce		 Vicki?... This is Batman. I thought I'd call and see how you're doing.
vicki		 ... I know it's you, Bruce. I'm not going to talk to you unless we can discuss it.
bruce		 Who's this "Bruce"? Are you trying to make me jealous?
financier		Hi, Bruce.
dent		... We deal.
adviser		Harvey, please. I mean --  If your first official act as D.A. is to cut a deal with a terrorist...
dent		Screw that, Ed. We've got a market panic of national proportions. -- We've got 786 people dead.  I won't sacrifice one more life for the sake of appearing strong.
politico		Harvey's right. We've got the 300th anniversary gala coming up. The networks won't even send in a crew.
adviser		Harvey, the police are working round the clock, the feds are coming in. This thing could break any minute now.  Tell him, Jim.
gordon		Cut the deal.
news anchor		... at City Hall, where the mayor is waiting to open negotiations with the clown-faced terrorist known as the Joker. It is now eight minutes past the appointed deadline, and still no word from --
reporter ii		Hey Knox, cheer up. It ain't the Batman but it's pretty choice.
joker		Joker here. Can we talk?
mayor		"While this administration remains vehemently opposed to terrorism in any form, we are prepared to negotiate any reasonable demands which will guarantee the safety of the populace."
joker		Huh. Demands. Well, gents, this is kinda embarrassing, but... I'm having such a swell time, I just haven't thought any up.
mayor		All right, all right. Here's the deal. Total amnesty... and the sum of ten million dollars, payable in --
joker		Ten million dollars. Ten million dollars.  I want ten million and one.
mayor		No, wait, please! We'll talk. Just tell us what you expect.
joker		Goddammit, I expect to be treated like an ARTIST. GET OFF MY SCREEN!!
knox		Alexander Knox. Gotham Globe.
knox		Actually, I wanted to talk to Batman. Pass that on to Mr. Wayne, would you?
bruce		I've been expecting to hear from you.
knox		Well, that's how it is, chum. She tells me everything.
bruce		What is it you want?
knox		Simple. You know the score. One column -- and I can bring all this tumbling down. I can take you off the streets once and for all.  I want you to hang up the suit. And I want you to stay away from Vicki.
bruce		I can't do that. Not while the Joker's still out there.
knox		Then stay away from Vicki. That's all I want, man. I just want your word.
bruce		There's something I don't understand. If you've got the story, why haven't you printed it?
knox		Because I --  Because she'd never speak to me again.
bruce		Do you want a drink?
knox		Yeah, a drink. "Civilized."  Man-to- man, right?
bruce		Alfred, bring something for Mr. Knox. -- I'll have one too.
vicki		... So we just pretend none of this ever happened. We never met. We --  You're going to get yourself killed, Bruce. You know that, don't you?
bruce		It wouldn't matter much.
vicki		I don't understand it. You can do so much good for people. As Bruce Wayne.
bruce		Money makes money, Vicki. The foundation runs itself. -- I'm extraneous to the process.
vicki		You're one man. You can't save everybody.
bruce		What it I could save a handful? -- What if I could save one?
vicki		Bruce, at the rate you're going, you can't even save yourself.
bruce		 Sometimes... I don't know if there's enough of me left to save.
vicki		Oh, God. I've got to have some coffee or something.
bruce		Are you expecting anyone?
delivery boy		Package tor Miss Vale.
bruce		Set it down by the door. On the left-hand side.
vicki		BRUCE!
bruce		Very thoughtful. Don't touch it.
vicki		Oh, Bruce. Don't tell me you carry it around with you.
bruce		I feel naked without it.
bruce		... They're wax.
vicki		"It worked for Van Gogh. Let's make up. I'll need you soon." -- Whew.
bruce		 That does it. It's going to be this weekend.
alicia		I thought you ought to know -- he's coming for you...
bruce		Keep her on the line!
vicki		... Where are you calling from?
vicki		I'm sorry, she hung up. What are --
bruce		Finding out where she is.
vicki		How can you do that if she's already off the line?
bruce		I've had an automatic tracer on this number ever since he tracked you to the museum.
bruce		Got it!
vicki		What now!
bruce		Hang on. I have to leave a message.
bruce		There's a garage in this building?
bruce		Oh, hell!
goon		Hey, boss, something's up. The elevator's working.
joker		DAMMIT! You can't get good help these days. -- Let's move out.
joker		Slow down, you maniac!
driver		Boss! Jesus! They've --
joker		They'll be sorry. They'll be sorry. -- GET OUT OF HERE!
joker		MOVE! Can't you do something??
driver		It's some kind of detour. They're backed up for blocks!
joker		Oh my God. How does he do it... ?
emcee		-- the most spectacular, most death- defying aerial stunt ever devised. Tonight -- for the first time anywhere -- THE FLYING GRAYSONS!
pilot		Ready to go, Dick?
dick		What's all the ruckus down there?
joker		Head for the truck!
joker		I love fireworks!
dick		NO! NOOOOOOOO!!!!
dick		LET ME GO! LET ME --
joker		Like your boyfriend. He's kinda hot.  Hands off the belt.
batman		Take me. Let the boy go.
joker		Gosh, I could kill you, but then you'd miss my party. And I'd be real, real sad if you couldn't make it.
batman		What are you talking about?
joker		Batman! Don't you even recognize your old pal Jack? After all...  You made me what I am today.
dick		HE KILLED MY PARENTS! HE KILLED MY --
reporter		... on a tip attributed to the mysterious Batman. The apartment was booby-trapped with the Joker's laughing gas, leaving 17 policemen dead.  Also found dead at the scene was Alicia Hunt, 26, a former model --
dick		... Where am I?
bruce		My name is Bruce Wayne. You're welcome to stay here as long as you want.
dent		We'll send a team into Ace the moment the warrant comes through.
bruce		He'll be ready when you do. Remember what happened at the apartment.
dent		All right, Bruce, what do you suggest?
bruce		I suggest a nice big bomb.
dent		Good. A bomb. On a blind tip from Bruce Wayne. -- We do have laws.
bruce		Then for God's sake, Harvey, cancel the anniversary celebration.
dent		We've told him we'll deal. What could he possibly have to gain by --
bruce		Do you still think the Joker cares about money??
dent		I don't know. I'm just a D.A. I don't have access to all your expert sources.
dick		... Your butler wouldn't gimme a ride so I figured I'd hoof it.
bruce		Sorry. I can't let you leave.
dick		You can't keep me here, man. That's kidnapping.
bruce		If I let you leave, you'll do the same thing again. You'll go after the Joker... and you'll wind up dead. 
dick		Hey, man. Look at you. You're rich. You got everything you want. How do you know what's in my mind?
bruce		I don't care what's in your mind. You're staying.
dick		... You're him.
bruce		It's all right, Alfred. Everything's under control.
alfred		... Very good, sir.
joker		Thankya, thankya. Ladies and germs, I'm here to tell you... we have had one helluva quarter.
joker		Look at that, folks. We got 'em rolling in the aisles!
bruce		All this apparatus, Vicki... this house, and the money, and the power... it was never mine. It was something I inherited. Bruce Wayne was something I inherited.  All I ever hoped for was someone who could see through Bruce -- who could see me -- and not be frightened.
vicki		I'm not frightened of you, Bruce. I'm frightened for you.
bruce		In all these years... why couldn't I see how it would turn out?
bruce		Where's the boy?
alfred		Upstairs. He's quite docile.
bruce		I know that feeling. It won't last.
alfred		Yes, sir.
bruce		He'll be taken care of financially. Beyond that... you know what to do. Don't let all this go to waste.
dispatcher		Boston, Philly: loading bay one.
computer		... Detonate.
cop		Good Lord!
governor gilroy		As Governor of this great state, it is now my honor to unveil for you a very special lady -- a lady who stands tall for life and liberty -- America's favorite lady... LADY GOTHAM!
knox		VICKI!
vicki		Yeah. Deja vu.
knox		What do you say? Let's head for the lights.
knox		So much for Underdog.
vicki		ALLIE!! THE WINDOWS!!
knox		WHAT HAPPENED?!?
vicki		Oh my God. Compressor tanks. He's got the balloons rigged with compressor tanks!!
knox		Jesus Christ, the guy's a genius.
vicki		LOOK! IT'S BRUCE!!  Allie -- the balloons. We've got to find some way to tell him!
knox		Great. How??
knox		GIMME A HAND UP HERE!
joker		No... NOOOOO!!!
joker		There. There. -- GET 'EM!!
knox		GET THE CAR!
knox		HOLY SHIT!!
vicki		You okay?
knox		Yeah. Yeah. Little winded. DID YOU SEE THAT?!
vicki		 God yes, Allie. I've gotta say -- that was the ballsiest move I ever --
knox		 Holy shit. Holy --
vicki		ALLIE!!
knox		Jesus, Vicki.
joker		He'll be back... he'll be back!!
joker		You do him. I'm outta here.
voice		Yo.
dick		HEY! COME ON!
dick		Now we're even, huh? Even up.
batman		How did you...
dick		I hitched. MOVE IT!
batman		The Joker. Is he --?
dick		Forget it. Relax.  ... He's mine now.
batman		DICK!
joker		Gotham cathedral. Come and get me.
joker		I'm in the belltower. Don't land.
pilot		E.T.A. two minutes. Hang on.
joker		... Batman?
batman		Mad... man...
joker		Well now, you're not exactly the picture of mental health, are you.
batman		... Murderer...
joker		Bruce, we're both murderers. Think how many people you've killed by letting me live.
bruce		No... sense... of humor?
anchorwoman		As the details of the Joker's heinous plan become known, a city's gratitude goes out to the mysterious Batman. His whereabouts remain unknown, but Batman -- if you're alive -- if you're listening -- thank you.
vicki		I loved you too.
alfred		No, Mr. Wayne is in Thailand. I'm afraid he's quite unreachable.
vicki		I don't know why I'm doing this. I half wish you'd stay a cripple.
bruce		Ohhhh... you don't mean that.
vicki		 I don't, but... I do. It's just... I love you, Bruce. I --
bruce		 Vicki. Do you love half of me? Or all of me?
vicki		I guess you did it, didn't you. You saved everyone.  Almost.
bruce		I don't know how to explain this so it makes sense... but you saved me.
****Dialogues from script :Batman_2.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Battle__Los_Angeles.txt****

five marines		From the 1st Platoon, 2nd battalion, 5th Marines .. Camo uniforms, NIGHT VISION GOGGLES on, stare into the DARK. CPL. CORREGGIO, 20, linebacker-big, shakes his head, frustrated.
anna		Call me later.
cherise		For three hundred more, she said we could have sprays of lilies. I know it's a lot, but it'd be so beautiful. What d'you think, baby? Harris looks pained. But before he can speak up:
psychiatrist		Still not sleeping... And the nightmares?
psychiatrist		You're not drinking, right, private? That's just a crutch...
captain		These objects were completely undetected until they entered our atmosphere.
captain		We have no idea. But whatever they are, they're not hitting the water at terminal velocity. They're able to slow down before impact. Glances exchanged in the room now.
captain		This is no meteor shower. Homeland Security has bumped the threat level to red. Marines, we are the first line of defense. All units gear up, be ready to move.
the marines		Push forward, scrambling to the TVs.
televisions		The REPORTER ON THE BEACH staring out, clearly panicked.
televisions		As the REPORTER reacts to isolated SHOUTS echoing from the crowd on the beach. Some are pointing out to the ocean...
captain		Situation is as follows: Most of Santa Monica is cleared of civilians. We've got a defensive line at Lincoln Boulevard a mile from the ocean... He points out LINCOLN BOULEVARD on a MAP, the OCEAN close by.
captain		At 9 p.m., everything from Lincoln to the ocean will be bombed. Martinez blanches.
captain		We've got an infestation of god- knows-what. It's an enemy ground force only, they have no aircraft. So our jets'll tear 'em a new asshole. We will rule the air.
captain		That's affirm. We're getting distress calls, sending squads out. He points to the MAP, to streets running from Lincoln Blvd.
captain		Your mission, Lieutenant, take your 1st squad, proceed west from Lincoln to a community center located here...  In a park on 10th and Bay Street. Police were using it as an evacuation point. They got overrun. Get there, any civilians you find, get 'em back here to the FOB for evacuation. You got three hours. Another CHOPPER is LANDING. Nantz yells over the sound:
captain		Not much. But police have shot 'em. They bleed. The captain, hurrying to the next chopper, yells back:
captain		It's our job to kill 'em.
adukwu		Shit, I'd rather be in Afghanistan.
marine		2nd squad, 3rd platoon...
marine		This is it, Lieutenant. Everyone else is dead or missing. The news hits Martinez hard. He eyes Nantz.
marine		We were on the street, like, ten minutes and they ambushed us. As soon as we radioed for help, it's like they were everywhere...
michele		There's five of us. Three kids. Nantz is immediately moving.
crewman		You called in with two wounded!
crewman		Can't take four! We have no room!
crew chief		Now! We're moving now! Imlay bumps fists with Lenihan, backs away as...
adukwu		All those guys on the chopper...
amy		You're not gonna leave us, are you? A beat. Then Imlay smiles.
rincon		My son and I came here... There were only three cops, spread pretty thin... Then those things attacked. Police couldn't stop them.
rincon		I don't know. Most people ran. We hid in a side room, found Michele and the girls... Couldn't see what happened. Just heard... Screams.
michele		I have my nieces for the week. My sister and her husband are in Hawaii for their anniversary... Is it safe there? I heard this is happening in other places... Martinez is at a loss for words.
michele		What do they want from us? Why are they here?
hector		Want some Nerds? Imlay holds his hand out. Hector shakes candy into it as... Nantz enters, calling to Adukwu:
michele		Maybe I can help, sergeant. I'm a vet...
michele		 No, a veterinarian.
michele		Michele.
michele		I was more sure two minutes ago. She looks to Adukwu. They step to the body together as... Nantz approaches Martinez.
adukwu		Well, Lieutenant, I'm a medic, Dr. McDermott's a vet... We weren't sure who was most qualified to cut this thing open. Martinez smiles.
adukwu		Look. It's been surgically modified... He pulls tissue aside, revealing where the alien's 'gun' is attached to its arm.
adukwu		Part of its arm has been amputated to fit this weapon.
kirsten		My... pony holder? Nantz nods. She pulls the PONY TAIL HOLDER from her hair, hands it to Nantz. He smiles. Briefly. Heads to the front.
michele		Your head, Sergeant. You're bleeding. Nantz touches his head, looks at the blood. He wipes it on his pants. Michele smiles at him softly.
michele		Bet when you woke up this morning, you didn't think your day would end up like this.
hector		 Are we gonna die? Nantz turns back to Hector. Manages a smile.
adukwu		Okay, it's clear. We're gonna go. Amy and Kirsten, terrified, look up at Michele. She hurries the girls to the door of the bus as Kern runs up.
michele		It's okay. I'll be right behind you. Adukwu picks up Amy. Kerns picks up Kirsten.
rincon		It's okay, son. I got you.
rincon		What do I need to know? The slightest beat, then...
rincon		Just sight down the barrel...?
rincon		Listen to me, son. I'm not going to make it.  But you will.
hector		I don't want to go without you.
rincon		I know. But you have to. Now wait with Michele a minute. Let me talk to the sergeant. Reluctantly, Hector allows Michele to lead him away.
rincon		No. You can't take me. Nantz is silent, at a loss.
rincon		I keep playing it over in my head... If I'd done things differently... Maybe I could have gotten Hector out earlier.
rincon		Just promise you'll get my son out of here, Sergeant. Nantz looks like he has the weight of the world on him.
rincon		I'm trusting you with the only thing I have in this world. Nantz stares, nods.
rincon		I'm very proud of you, son. You're being so brave... Hector throws his arms around his father, hugging him tightly.
rincon		I love you, Hector. Mr. Rincon smiles. His face peaceful. Hector is silent, tears rolling down his face.
michele		What's happening, Sergeant? What's that mean?
hector		I don't wanna be here. I want my dad back. I want it all to go back to the way it was before...
nantz		Tries to lead Hector away. Hector struggles.
michele		What's the matter?
hector		People always say that. "He's a hero."
hector		What's that mean, "retreat hell?"
michele		You don't look much older, either. She gazes at the kids, pain and anger washing over her.
michele		Is this day ever going to end?
adukwu		Emmanuel. Manny.
michele		I'm single. Lots of family back in Nebraska, though... Hopefully they're safe... She shakes the thought away.
michele		What about you guys?
adukwu		Nigeria. I came here to be a doctor.
michele		You should be a surgeon, the way you cut into that thing... Adukwu smiles. Then his smile fades as he looks around.
adukwu		Yeah. Maybe...
sgt nantz		Get us there. Cause we're about to get lit up. The alien drone ships are winging at them. They are only 200 meters out when...
crew chief		You are in the middle of the shit, Sergeant! Everything's been pulled back.
crew chief		We've lost most of our air assets. We're abandoning Los Angeles. This city's done...!  Let's go! The chopper powers up, Nantz SCRAMBLES ON with the others.
crew chief		Something there was playing hell with our power! Nantz stares at this. Then notices Hector watching. him. He sees the 2/5 MEDALLION clutched tightly in Hector's hand. Sees the words "Retreat Hell." Nantz looks back at the MYSTERIOUS BLACK PATCH of cityscape. Then he turns to the crew chief.
crew chief		What?! The other marines in Nantz' unit look over, alarmed now.
crew chief		We can't land! May not have power to take off again... Nantz looks out. Spies a BUILDING with a FLAT OPEN ROOF. He points to it.
hector		What are you gonna do?
marines		Yes, Sergeant!
nantz		I think you men earned the right to call yourselves marines today. I'm damn proud of every one of you. Retreat!?
****Dialogues from script :Battle_of_Algiers.txt****

marc		The colonel. Where's the colonel?
paras		Why? What's happening?
other paras		So he spoke? Does he really know where Ali is?
voices paras		Why are they breathing so heavily? Fear ... Air ... They haven't got enough air inside ...
speaker		"National Liberation Front! Algerian brothers! The time has come to break loose at long last from the bonds of misery in which one hundred and thirty years of colonial oppression has kept us chained. The moment of struggle is near; our goal -- national independence ..."
speaker		"In order to avoid a fatal and bloody conflict, we propose an honorable program of discussion to the French authorities, on condition that they recognize the right of our people to self-government ..."
speaker		"Algerians unite! Be ready for action! The National Liberation Front calls you to struggle."
woman		Look! Yes, that's him!
speaker		Omar Ali, known as "Ali la Pointe" born in Miliana, March 1, 1930. Education: Illiterate. Occupation: Manual laborer, farm hand, boxer, presently unemployed. Former convictions: 1942 -- Oran Juvenile Court, one year of reformatory school for acts of vandalism. 1944 -- Two years of reformatory school for theft. 1949 -- Court of Algiers, eight months for compulsory prostitution and resisting arrest. Habitual offender.
condemned man		Tahia el Djez-air! [Long live Algeria!]
political prisoners		Tahia el Djez-air!
women		Ju-ju ...
ali		 Okay ...
ali		I don't even know your name yet ...
speaker		"National Liberation Front, bulletin number 24. Brothers of the Casbah! The colonial administration is responsible not only for our people's great misery, but also for the degrading vices of many of our brothers who have forgotten their own dignity ..."
speaker		"Corruption and brutality have always been the most dangerous weapons of colonialism. The National Liberation Front calls all the people to struggle for their own physical and moral redemption -- indispensable conditions for the reconquest of independence. Therefore beginning today, the clandestine authority of the NLF prohibits the following activities: gambling, the sale and usage of all types of drugs, the sale and usage of alcoholic beverages, prostitution and its solicitation. Transgressors will be punished. Habitual transgressors will be punished by death."
madam		No. He left early this morning. You know how it is with the boss ...  ALI I want to see him. If he shows up, tell him that I'm around.  Ali moves away from the counter and turns. He leaves without a word. The woman tries to understand what has happened, and follows him with a worried glance.
assistant commissioner		Time: 3 P.M. Attempt at homicide against a Patrol of the 3rd B.P.C. Place: Luciani street at El Biar. Weapon: Revolver 7.75. Victim: A soldier wounded in the right leg and groin. Hospitalized. Assailants: Unknown. ... Time: 3:35 P.M. Homicide. Place: Chopin Street, opposite number 20. Weapon: P.M. 38. Victim: Private second-class Dare Jackie, born March 12, 1931. Deceased. Assailant: A moslem. Height: five feet and seven/eights inches. Light colored clothing. Probably escaped in Simca. License plates unknown. Time: Four minutes past 4 P.M. Homicide and attempt at homicide against patrol of border guards. Place: Intersection between Consular Street and General Laquiere ... Wait a minute ...
assistant commissioner		I want to see the newspapers tomorrow. If they're still talking about pacification of our Moslem brothers!
assistant commissioner		Where were we?
employee		Intersection, between Consular Street and General Laquiere Avenue ...
speaker		"Ordinance of the Prefecture of Algiers: All police stations in Algiers, without exception and until further notice, are required to prepare and maintain external protection devices. The shifting of guards outside must continue uninterrupted twenty-four hours a day. Sentinels must be equipped with automatic weapons ..."
speaker		"The Governor-General of Algiers decrees: Article No. 1 -- The sale of medicinal and pharmaceutical products, effective for the cures of gunshot wounds, can be made only to those who present written authorization from the Commissioner of Police.
speaker		"The Prefecture of Algiers states: In the course of these last few days, dozens of assaults have been committed in this city. We have reason to believe that the assailants originate in the Casbah, and that they have always found a speedy and easy refuge in the alleys of the Arab quarters. As a result, and in order to alleviate without delay the insecurity that now reigns in the city, the Prefecture of Algiers has decided that entrance to the Casbah can only he permitted at those points in the blockade under military control, where citizens in transit must exhibit their documents at request, and submit to eventual searches."
officer		Are you mad, touching one of their women? Go on, go on, alright ... Go ahead, keep moving!
officer		What are you doing here? Where are you going?
varied voices		Do you know he's dead, you bastard? Do you know you killed him?
algerian		No, no, no, no, ... me no ... Viva France ...
officer		Get out, go on, outside ... Get out of the way! Go away ...
algerian		Sir ... sir ... sir ...
employee		Seven assaults, three dead.
employee		Here, one for the Commissioner ... the press offices ... the archives ... and one for you, sir.  The Assistant Commissioner signs.  ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Good, thank you, Corbiere... . See you tomorrow.
employee		Good evening, sir.  The employee salutes, then moves toward the door. He is about to go out when the Assistant Commissioner stops him.  ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER Tell me ... Where is this rue de Thbes?
employee		Rue de Thbes? In the Upper Casbah, I think ...
employee		Good evening, sir.  The employee leaves and closes the door. The Assistant Commissioner crosses the room to the large map of Algiers which covers the entire wall. He moves his finger along the Casbah zone; as he moves it, he follows it with his glance in that tangle of streets.  ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER  Hello, Engineer Henry Amaud, please ... He's already left? Alright, yes, yes, alright ... I have the number.
assistant commissioner		Hello, Bernadette...Yes, right away. I'm going to change my clothes first, and I'll be right there. My wife is already there, right? No, it's not important. But call Henry for me. Just for a minute ... Alright ... thanks ...
assistant commissioner		Hello, Henry? ... Everything's okay. Good. What are we going to tell our wives? The club? Good idea, yes. I'll be there right away. Just give me time to change my clothes ... Ah, I've found the address. No, it's better to talk in person. Yes, it's the right place ... Okay. Bye.
children		Notre Pre, dans le ciel ...
servant		Now, let's go to say good night.
bernadette		Come here, children. Say hello ...
children		Good night, daddy. Good night, mommy.
arnaud		Good evening ... Can we pass?
arnaud		But it's not even midnight yet!
arnaud		Please, we just want to take a short ride. A friend of mine has never seen the Casbah.
friend		Let's park here. It doesn't matter.
friend		Five minutes. Give me a match ...
hassiba		a va, monsieur?
hassiba		I've come to take the package ...
zohra		I've come to take the package ...
soldier		I'd like to search you, Miss ...  For an instant, Hassiba is dismayed; then, she glances down at her clinging shirt and pants.
soldier		Not here. There's too many people.
soldier		That's what you think!
second soldier		Are you going for a swim, Miss ... all by yourself?
second soldier		Lucky them. Next Sunday I'm free .... Shall we go together?
algerian		May Allah protect you.
hassiba		I'm giving your seat back.
man		Are you already leaving, Miss?
hassiba		Good evening ...
man		Good evening ...
child		Ice cream ...  The father and mother are watching him, delighted. The waiter smiles at the child and points to the cash register. He speaks to the child in the usual tone of a grownup when speaking to children:
waiter		You have to go there first ... and then come back to me.  The second hand reaches twenty-five, then thirty. The child goes to the cashier and pays. The cashier smiles at him and gives him the check.
cashier		What a good boy ...  The child returns to the counter. The waiter has already prepared the ice cream for him, and hands it to him. The child is standing on tiptoes.
commissioner		What time is it?
policeman		A quarter to seven.
youth		Hey, little rat ...
speaker		"Following a lengthy discussion, the General Assembly of the United Nations has decided its agenda for the forthcoming debates:
speaker		"Mr. Raymond Lefevre, Inspector General of the Administration, has presided over a meeting in which important decisions have been taken with the aim of securing public order and the protection of persons and their property. In particular, it has been decided to recall the 'Tenth' Division of paratroopers to Algiers that, until now, has been employed in the antiguerrilla operations on the Cabiro plateau. The Commander General of the Tenth Division will assume responsibility for the maintenance of order in Algiers, and will have at his disposal in order to achieve this goal, all civil and military means provided for the defense of the zone."
speaker		Family name: Mathieu; Name: Philippe; Born in Rennes May 3, 1906; Rank: Lieutenant Colonel; Schooling: Politechnique-degree in Engineering; Campaigns: Second World War, Anti-Nazi Resistance Movement, Italian Campaign, Indochinese War, Algerian War ...
mathieu		Go ahead, Martin.  Martin turns on the projector. On the white wall next to the map and graph appear pictures of the Casbah. There are the blockades, the barbed wire, the metal screens, the Algerians who exit and enter, the policemen and soldiers who examine documents and frisk someone. From time to time, close-ups of the pictures are shown, enlarged to the minutest details, close-ups of faces, motionless images that last only for a few seconds.
mathieu		We must start again from scratch. The only information that we have concerns the structure of the organization. And we shall begin from that ...
speaker		"Algerian brothers! A great hope has arisen for us. The world is watching us. The next few days may be decisive for our future and our freedom. The colonial powers will attempt to demonstrate to the UN that the NFL does not represent the will of our people. Our response will be unanimous support of the general strike."
speaker		"During the eight days of the strike, do not frequent the European city, or leave the Casbah. Provide lodgings in your homes for the poor, the beggars, the brothers who do not have homes. Store provisions of food and water for eight days!"
officer		No. They continue to enter, the rats.
officer		But do you believe that the strike will be widespread?
general		Mathieu! Mathieu, a name ...  MATHIEU A name?
general		Yes, a name for the operation.
general		Champagne ... Champagne.  Operation Champagne, yes, alright.
policeman		Go on! Go on!
voices		Of course ... I was just going to work ...
loudspeaker		"Attention, people of the Casbah! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. Inhabitants of the Casbah, rebel against their orders. France is your country. France has given you civilization and prosperity: schools, streets, hospitals. People of the Casbah, show your love for your mother country, by disobeying the terrorists' orders. Algerians, return to work!"
para's voices		Who are you? What's your name? Occupation? Where do you work? Why did you strike? They forced you, eh? ... No ... Tell the truth! You promised them, right? Then you're the one who wants to strike. Do you belong to the NLF? C'mon, answer me! Are you afraid to say it? Never mind, it doesn't matter.
loudspeaker		"Attention, Algerians! The NLF wants to stop you from working. The NLF forces you to close your shops. The NLF wants to starve you and condemn you to misery. Algerians, return to work ... !"
paras		 Sweep, mes enfants, sweep.
loudspeaker		"French citizens! Europeans of Algiers! The strike called by the NLF is a failure. Do not be afraid. Return to your jobs. General Massu guarantees your safety. The Army will protect you!"
a journalist		We are now in the fourth day and the strike continues, with total support by the Arab population. The city is very calm. However -- Calm ... Are you deaf? The city is peaceful. In the Moslem quarters, in the outskirts of the city, in the Casbah ... Bye, will call again, I'm busy.
first journalist		Will you tell us what is happening?
officer		It is an armed insurrection ...  They have arrived at the second-floor landing, hurry along, and stop in front of a large door, where there is a written sign: PREFECT. Mathieu, at the same time, has continued speaking.
sergeant		Go ahead! C'mon ... Repeat everything from the beginning, and then we'll let you go. Name ...
sergeant		Second name.
sergeant		Which "district" do you belong to?
sergeant		Second district ... Explain better ...
sergeant		What "group"?
sergeant		Third group. What's your assignment?
algerian voice		Who is it?
para		Sid Ahmed ... Sid Ahmed Sail.
speaker		"At the General Assembly of the United Nations, none of the motions presented in the course of the debate has obtained the necessary majority. At last an agreement has been reached on a resolution that excludes any form of direct intervention by the UN in the Algerian question. The Assembly of the United Nations has limited itself to expressing the hope that in a spirit of cooperation, a peaceful, democratic, and just solution will be found, that conforms to the principles of the United Nations Charter ..."
mathieu		Good ... Good work ... Now we can all go to sleep.
loudspeaker		"Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasel Maussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The NFL has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. People of the Casbah, the terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Help us to build a free and peaceful Algeria. Inhabitants of the Casbah, the NLF has been defeated. Rebel against the remaining terrorists who want to force you to continue a bloody and futile struggle. Attention! Attention! Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed this morning. Qrara Normendine has been arrested. Boussalem Ali has been arrested. Bel Kasem Moussa has been arrested. Inhabitants of the Casbah -- the NLF has been defeated ..."
mourad		And our movements?
loudspeaker		"Inhabitants of the Casbah! The rebellion gets weaker every day. The terrorist Ben Amin has been executed. Kasem Moussa has been arrested. He was commander of the 2nd Sector NLF. Inhabitants of the Casbah! The terrorists are not your true brothers. Leave them to their fate. Rely on the protection of the French army. Denounce the terrorists and agitators. Cooperate with us to reestablish peace and prosperity in Algeria ..."
speaker		"To all NLF militants! Reorganize! Replace your fallen and arrested brothers. Make new contacts! This is a grave moment. Resist brothers! The General Staff leaves you free to take any and all necessary offensives ...
speaker		"Our hearts are breaking before such outrages, our houses invaded, our families massacred. Brothers, rebel! Bring terror to the European city!"
mourad		Who is speaking?  MATHIEU Mathieu. Colonel Mathieu.
mourad		We don't trust you, colonel. Come forward, show yourself.
mourad		Okay. But we want your promise for a fair trial in writing. Give us a written statement, Mathieu, and then we'll surrender.
mourad		We'll lower a basket from the window ...
mourad		 A newspaper too, or a piece of paper ...
mourad		 Are you ready, colonel?
mathieu		You go ...  Mourad's face has remained motionless. In his expression there is a shade of disappointment. He sees Mathieu retrace his steps toward the door, and is now surrounded by a group of paratroopers ...  MOURAD  Hurry up, black bastard!
mathieu		Which one of you is Fathia?
mathieu		Is it you?  The woman nods yes.
mathieu		If you had let me blow you up, you would have disappointed me ...
kader		Why?
sadek		Then the beach is okay, Ali.  Silence. Sadek looks at him again, waiting, but Ali does not respond.  Ali looks straight ahead at the street bathed in sunlight, the tar that seems to be liquid, the villas that surround Algiers, the lemon trees, the oleanders ... Then he speaks, but without turning to Sadek. He speaks in a whisper, his eyes continually staring straight ahead.  ALI We need two more, the biggest ones.
sadek		And the others?
sadek		I've looked, Ali, even where I work. Nothing. The ones who have not been arrested have left Algiers and gone into the mountains ... And the others don't want to hear any more about it ... they're afraid ...
sadek		Yes, sure ... here.
sadek		If we don't find any others ... should we call it off?
sadek		We can't plant all of them by ourselves ...  Ali speaks to him in a dry and indifferent voice.  ALI You don't have to plant anything. You only have to carry them, that's all.
mahmoud		It's almost time, isn't it?
hassiba		I'm ready.
mahmoud		I heard the sound of a truck before ...
mahmoud		So-so ...  Ali has finished putting on his shoes. He takes a cup of coffee. In the same moment, outside the door is heard:  MACHINE-GUN FIRE.  The four are startled.  ALI  Inside! Inside!
hassiba		What are you going to do?  ALI I don't deal with them.
general		And so the tapeworm no longer has a head. Are you satisfied, Mathieu? In Algiers everything should be over.
general		Let's hope forever.  Another colonel intervenes:
journalist		No one knows what could have been the pretext. The fact is that they seem to be unleashed without warning ... I telephoned Lausanne ... yes, Lausanne. I spoke with an NLF leader in exile. They don't know anything there.
voices		Algerie! Mu-sul-mane! Algerie Musulmane!
voices		Free Ben-Bel-la! Free Ben-Bel-la!
voices		Ta-hia Et-thou-ar! [Long live the partisans!]
****Dialogues from script :Battle_of_Shaker_Heights.txt****

written by		 Erica Beeney
kelly		Where the hell are those Krauts?
kelly		Shit.
kelly		Bingo.
kelly		"And so they buried Hector, breaker of horses."
german officer		 Eine maus findet den kase.
kelly		Kill me Adolf.
german officer		Mien Prisoner!
kelly		Hey, Siegfreid and Roy. What are you waiting for? Kill me.
kelly		Come on you pussies. Let's get this over with.
german officer		 You will write your mother. Tell her how you will die now.
kelly		Genuine Third Reich issue, no less. Nice work.
german officer		You will write. How you die alone.
kelly		My mother and I don't have that kind of relationship.
german officer		 Write.
german officer		Enough. Now you will beg for your life.
kelly		What don't you understand?
infantryman		 The protocol says we should -
german officer		I am the fucking protocol.  Beg!
german officer		Beg - for - your - life!
kelly		You got to be kidding me.
german officer		Silence. Now I have a little fun.
kelly		Now that's against the rules.
german officer		 There are no rules in war.
kelly		 You've never killed anyone before, have you?
german officer		I shower in the blood of my victims --
gi		No wonder you smell so bad.
german officer		Don't shoot, please.
gi		Will you look at the manners on this guy?  Remember to thank me when I kill you.
german officer		No, really, not in the neck -
gi		 You all right?
kelly		Yeah. My elaborate death scene wasn't going anywhere anyway.
gi		You want me to give you a minute?
kelly		That's okay. They'll get me eventually. If you can't get killed in a war, when can you?
gi		That's right. Look on the bright side.
gi		Bart. Bart Bowland.
kelly		Kelly. Kelly Ernswiler.
bart		Kelly?
kelly		 Bart?
bart		I mean - that's Irish, right?
german officer		 Why the fuck did you have to shoot that cap so close to my neck? You gave me a powder burn.
kelly		Listen you wienerschnitzel. You should talk. You slapped me. I'm not your bitch.
german officer		Well, what was that whole creepy death wish thing about?
kelly		Well it didn't work, now did it?
german officer		 Sometimes I get so caught up in the moment.
kelly		And what was that ridiculous shit about making me write to my mother?
german officer		Inspired, wasn't it?
bart		Dude, you made him write to his mother? Who are you, Dr. Phil?
infantryman		 Can we get up now?
bart		Might as well. There's only an hour left anyway.
german officer		 Admit it. You were scared.
kelly		 Right.
bart		That Willys yours?
kelly		Yup. Just got her. Three summers packing out at Shop Rite.
kelly		My bad. Thanks though.
kelly		See you.
kelly		Well, come on.
kelly		I couldn't resist.
bart		Real funny, Ernswiler. You might still get your chance to die today.
bart		Character building? Those crazy guys from Ann Arbor tied them to a dock.
kelly		 That's what you get for invading Wisconsin.
bart		D-Day at Kenosha was nothing. At Guadalcanal Chillicothe there was a guy who actually injected himself with malaria.
kelly		That's crazy.
bart		Where do you live, anyway?
kelly		Shaker Heights.
bart		That explains the death wish. Me too. What street?
kelly		Penn Place.
bart		 Hmm, don't know it.
kelly		It's not technically in Shaker Heights - but I go to Shaker Heights High.
bart		Langely Prep.
kelly		Sorry to hear that.
bart		Well, I got kicked out of Shaker Heights High because my birdhouse came unglued in honors woodshop.
kelly		Of course. I would have gone to Langely myself only my polo pony had the fits.
bart		No matter.  We're all soldiers here.
crowd		That's right./Here, here./ Whooping, cheers, etc.
bart		You should come over some time. Service our lawnmower.
kelly		I would, but then I might soil my croquet whites. You understand.
bart		How bourgeois. Cheerio then.
kelly		Sleep tight Hot Lips.
abe		Sergeant Keller! How was the war? Did we win?
kelly		Let me guess. Happy Meals for the wavy gravy wellness center?
abe		As usual, your cynicism is refreshing.
kelly		As usual, your cheerful optimism makes me ill.
abe		 You should get that checked.
kelly		 Sure thing, doc. Say hello to Leif Garrett for me.
mao		 Son of Eve. You are very dirty.
kelly		 A rough charge. You know.
eve		 Now Nana, the gold has to be feathery, not gloppy - see?
eve		Now you try.
eve		 She loves the gold. Always overuses it. And usually her touch is so light.
kelly		You know why we never have anything to eat in this house?
eve		Mao, what did we say about the eyes?
mao		More - empathy?
eve		That's right. And didn't I tell you to put in more cacti?
mao		 No, no more cacti. Too busy. Simplicity is best.
eve		Oh boy. I'm not having this battle with you again.
kelly		Because your husband takes food from his own family to feed every loser druggie in Cleveland.
eve		Well, you can always chip in here. We're ordering pizza later.
kelly		No. Some people have to work later.  Will you drop something off at the dry cleaners for me tomorrow?
eve		Sweetie, you know what we said about paying for the war things. Nothing's changed.
kelly		It's the only thing I ever ask you for --
eve		Don't be dramatic.
kelly		But it's important to me.
eve		You're just going to have to find a way to pay for it yourself then, I guess.  No - not that way - the sky should be stormier. Angry clouds.
kelly		Why do I bother?
eve		More brown, less blue.
abe		Now Keller, who needs that sandwich more - you or the daughter of a crack addict trying to make a new life?
kelly		How about the son of a heroin addict trying to get ready for work?
abe		That went well.
sarah		So how'd your battle go today? I still don't understand how you could reenact the Battle of the Bulge in seventy-two degree weather.  Didn't all those guys freeze to death?
kelly		Well, a Port-a-John fell over on a couple of guys.
sarah		That's gross.
kelly		War is hell.
sarah		Then why do you do it?
kelly		You're never more alive then when facing simulated death.
sarah		Really? Maybe I should try it.
kelly		You are William J. Stone of the 1st Airborne, pinned down in Noville. The Germans have the high ground and they're shelling your position heavily.  You're holed up in a stone barn. Sustaining heavy casualties. Running low on ammo. The cries of wounded men fill the air like the cries of hungry babies.
kelly		Your commanding officer gets hit in the face, dies. At 1 p.m. you lose radio contact with headquarters. If you withdraw, the Germans will flank the entire Allied forces arrayed along Bastogne and break the front. What do you do? What do you do?
sarah		Stop it!
kelly		Battle of Bulge, the Southern
sarah		Sorry I asked.
kelly		Hey. Want a snack? We got a whole shipment in of busted Oreo's.
sarah		I'll accidentally drop a couple pints of milk and meet you over there.
sarah		The frozen food woman came in with her kids. They must eat out of those little cardboard trays every night. One of the kids looked like cardboard.
kelly		Do you know we stock more flavors of cat food than we do baby food?
sarah		No.
kelly		Sixteen flavors of baby food including the toddler meals-in-ajar, thirty- one flavors of cat food.
kelly		Next time you should tell that woman to buy her kid some cat food.
woman		Is this store open? I've been waiting up front. If the store's closed, it shouldn't have a sign that says twenty- four hours.
sarah		Sorry about that.
woman		I have a lot of coupons and I don't want to be here when they expire.
kelly		 Charge her double for everything.
lance		What the fuck are you looking at, GI Jane?
lance		No really, what makes you think you can look at me?
kelly		I honestly didn't know it was you. I thought it was a free preview of the Spice Channel.
lance		That's pretty funny. You got dental insurance?
bridget		Stop it.
lance		What? What?
kelly		No.
kelly		Come on. Isn't this analysis a tad simplistic? I mean, maybe for a second grade history class, sure - but to insist on still characterizing the Civil War as some moral struggle? The soldiers were drafted - the only ones who had to fight were the ones who couldn't afford to pay their way out.  Why don't you talk about the Draft Riots? Where are your slides for that?
holmstead		What gives you the idea that you can or ought to question the curriculum?
holmstead		Or question your teacher?
kelly		I know. I mean, who ever heard of a classroom dialog? Not Socrates.
holmstead		Kelly, you're a very bright boy. But you're making some serious mistakes.
kelly		I don't need to. Everyone else makes them for me.
holmstead		This anger must be masking a lot of hurt.
kelly		I was wondering what the tissues were for.
holmstead		I see you're not going to college next year. What are your plans?
holmstead		How do I get through to you?
kelly		Advertisers use status and sex to appeal to my demographic.
holmstead		I think we can come up with a punishment which might actually be more of an opportunity for you to realize your true potential.
lance		You upset Bridget.
kelly		Give me a break.
lance		You need to apologize.
kelly		What are you going to do, make out with me?
lance		Why are you fucking with me? You little fucker. Want to play, fuckface?
kelly		You just used fuck as a verb, noun, and adjective. Impressive.
lance		Let's see what Beetle Bailey's got in his knapsack.
kelly		Rim job.
bart		Kelly. Hey.
kelly		You work here?
bart		Just a couple days a month, to get a heads-up on the latest stuff. What are you doing?
kelly		Looking for a backpack.
bart		Is that all? Don't bother. I have a couple extras at home. I could give you one if you want.
kelly		 Sure, I guess.
kelly		Very impressive.
bart		My dad's real into hoarding.
kelly		What's this?
bart		Grant's field flask.
kelly		Wow. Your dad should meet my history teacher. He sent me to the principal's office today for questioning his G- rated interpretation of the Civil War.
bart		Forget him.
kelly		I would, but now the principal's making me give a speech on the Civil War at an assembly.
bart		 What is he, some kind of sadist?
kelly		She thinks she's doing me a favor.
bart		Jesus, she must think you're really screwed up. Are you?
kelly		Depends on who you ask. Everyone's got an opinion.
bart		 Take this. That'll shut them up.
bart		Stonewall Jackson's.
kelly		Yeah right.
bart		Can you imagine that? Losing your leg and getting back up on your horse? Unbelievable. What balls.
bart		He's got so much crap crammed in here he doesn't even notice when it's missing. I saw a backpack in here somewhere.
bart		I thought he had a couple.
kelly		I'd feel weird taking one out of the tomb of Tutenkamen anyway.
bart		Trust me, you shouldn't.  Where'd your old one go?
kelly		I lost it.
bart		How?
kelly		Someone took it.
bart		You let someone take it?
kelly		I didn't let him. I told off some idiot --
bart		Sounds like your mouth gets you into trouble a lot.
kelly		I'm telling you, it's not me, it's the world.
bart		Tabby, this is Kelly.
tabby		 Don't give him any money, whatever you do.
bart		Shut up.
tabby		All these little old ladies are looking for him in Arizona. He took their retirement money and bought defective bazookas with it.
bart		Very funny. We're paying attention to you, are you happy now?
tabby		Finally, my life is complete. Fait accompli.
bart		 Minnie's making sloppy joes. Want one?
tabby		Sloppy joe? Sloppy no.
tabby		I have to go take a shower. Will you call me when Miner gets here?
kelly		Who's Miner?
bart		The fianc.
bart		Listen, I'm going to the flea market on Saturday. I have a line on a couple dealers. You could get a backpack there.
kelly		Oh yeah? Flea market, land of bargains.
bart		Especially if you know who to talk to.
lance		Hey fuckface. Like my new hat? I just joined the Boy Scouts.
kelly		If you stay in it long enough, maybe you'll get your fudgepacker badge.
lance		You're a regular Howie Mandel.
bridget		Lance!
lance		Okay babe.  One day you and me will be alone. And won't that be nice?
kelly		Too bad my mom won't let me date yet.
sarah		Why do you mess with him?
kelly		You're right. I should give him a break.
eve		Oh, Kelly, you're home. Good. I need you to go to the art supply store for me.
kelly		Get Abe to do it.
eve		He was going to but he had to go lead a meeting at Care House.
kelly		What a surprise.
eve		I'll make it up to you.
kelly		Where have I heard that before?
eve		When are you going to give me a break?
kelly		Let me think - maybe when I finally forget every single word of The Little Mermaid soundtrack I'd listen to in the car waiting for him to score. No, probably when I don't prepare myself before I go into the bathroom, expecting to find him passed out on the floor.
kelly		Actually, you know what? I know I'll be able to put it all behind me when I go away to college.  Only, I can't go because someone spent my college fund on Mexican Black Tar. So looks like I'll have to try to forget at Shop Rite, where I'll be working for the rest of my life.
eve		You're right. You have every reason to crawl into the corner and give up. But please just get me some paints first.
kelly		What do you need?
eve		We need burnt sienna, cadmium red, and midnight blue. Two tubes of blue.  What happened to your face?
kelly		Forget it.
kelly		They're having a sale on glitter.
tabby		Oh, hello. What happened to you?
kelly		 Tennis injury.
tabby		You paint?
kelly		Well, you see... That's a difficult question.
tabby		How so?
kelly		I don't really feel comfortable calling anything done since the Renaissance "painting." We might have a more experimental interaction with the picture plane, but our skills have suffered from it.
kelly		You're working with acrylic. Why? Oil's much - richer.
tabby		Oh you're not one of those oil snobs are you?
kelly		Of course not.
kelly		It's just - isn't acrylic a bit - jejune?
tabby		Jejune? You're jejune. How old are you anyway?
kelly		Older than my years.
tabby		And you paint?
kelly		Well, you know, my mother's kind of an artist, so -
tabby		That explains it.
kelly		That explains nothing. Doesn't anyone believe in innate knowledge anymore? Michelangelo was fifteen when he painted the Infanta.
tabby		Infantas are Spanish. Michelangelo was Italian.
kelly		Exactly. One world, one people. Just like Jesse Jackson envisioned.
tabby		Well - Kelly. Nice talking to you.
kelly		What the hell did you just say?
skinny guy		 That there's actual sand from Iwo Jima.
bart		Or your sister's sandbox.
skinny guy		Well, it don't come with no certificate of authenticity.  I could write one up for you, I suppose. Get it notarized.
bart		No, that's quite all right. Actually, I'm in the market for medals.
skinny guy		Sure. I got a couple purple hearts. A Silver Star. DSC. Can't sell them to you though. They were gramp's. 
bart		Are you sure?
skinny		They have a lot of sentimental value -
bart		Yeah. How much?
skinny guy		A lot.
skinny guy		What's this?
bart		General Ulysses S. Grant's field flask, my friend.
bart		Throw in one of those backpacks and we'll call it even.
kelly		Buying and selling US service medals is illegal.
bart		Exactly. That's why the resale value is so high.
kelly		Is that what they teach you at Langely?
bart		Don't be so nave. We all have our skeletons. Some of them just pay more than others.
kelly		And I'm not even going to ask about the flask.
bart		Don't ask, don't tell. The army gets everything right, don't they?
woman		You boys look like Goldwater fans.
kelly		I've never been accused of that before.
woman		Well jeez, you don't have to be insulted.
bart		Anything military?
woman		Fish around in that cigar box.
bart		What do you want for the box?
woman		Twenty dollars.
bart		Fifteen.
woman		Don't be so hasty.  I got a few Geraldine Ferraro pins I'm looking to unload.
kelly		Goldwater fan. I think that's some kind of insult.
bart		Not at Dartmouth. Where are you going to go to school?
kelly		I'm not.
bart		Ah, you have that luxury.
kelly		You don't?
bart		 I didn't have much say in the matter. Everything has been decided for me since birth. I'm not whining about it. Play the hand you're dealt, right?
kelly		Easy for you to say. You got a royal flush.
bart		Are you crazy? My life sucks. Everyone's always telling me what to do. You can't fight it. Go with the flow.
kelly		What about Tabby?
bart		She got to go where she wanted. Sarah Lawrence. Six years. She's almost done with grad school. Yale.
kelly		I didn't think people actually went to Yale.
bart		 I don't know. I mean, she drives off in her car in September. For all we know, she could just pull her car over in Albany and sleep there until May.
kelly		What do you mean?
bart		It was a joke. Joke?
kelly		Oh. Is that what one of those sounds like? Somehow, I always imagined they would be funnier.
kelly		Sarah Lawrence? Isn't that for lesbians?
bart		What happened to your face?
kelly		Remember the backpack incident?
bart		Same guy?
kelly		The one with mad cow-diseased hamburger meat for brains? That would be the one.
bart		What are you going to do about it?
kelly		I'm not going to lower myself to his level.
bart		Of course not. But there are alternatives
kelly		Alternatives?
bart		Haven't you ever heard of the 193rd Special Operations Wing?
bart		Well do you want to get this guy or what?
kelly		Yes.
bart		All right. Let's get the fuck out of here, then.
bart		 I have some things to show you.
bart		Once we've gathered the intelligence, the plan will reveal itself.
kelly		We don't plan first?
bart		No, it limits our scope - what's the objective?
kelly		Humiliation. Rage. Despair.
bart		Easy enough. 'Nam's probably our go- to war for that sort of thing. I have the declassified briefs from the Phoenix Project around here somewhere.
tabby		Hey. I have some stretcher bars out in the car. Can somebody help me bring them in?
bart		Of course we'll drop what we're doing because what you're doing must be more important.
kelly		Sure. I mean, I'll help.
bart		I'll find those reports.
kelly		Gold. The color of the sun.
tabby		That's the Cleveland waterfront.
kelly		As the viewer, I get to decide what it is, I'm afraid. And it doesn't look a thing like it.
tabby		It's the light. I was playing with diffusion.
kelly		Well make sure you put it away when you're done with it.
tabby		Very funny, wiseass.
kelly		It must be nice to have a place like this to get away to.
tabby		It is.
kelly		What about Farmer?
tabby		Farmer?
kelly		The boyfriend.
tabby		 Miner? What about him?
kelly		Is he an artist, too?
tabby		No. Definitely not. Thank god.
tabby		You said your mom was a painter?
kelly		She was, well - is I guess.
tabby		What do you mean?
kelly		She used to be. But then my dad - wasn't working anymore so she turned it into a business. She has a family of Chinese immigrants in the garage making them for her.
tabby		Like Andy Warhol's Factory.
kelly		More like Andy Warhol's tool shed. It was nice before, though. My playpen used to be in her studio.
tabby		Wow. So you really grew up with it. What does, did, your dad do?
kelly		He's a VH-1 documentary without the music.
tabby		"Tragedy struck?"
kelly		"And then, things took a turn for the worse."
tabby		Well, just wait. Those burnout types always have a triumphant comeback tour.
kelly		I already changed the channel.
bart		Christ Kelly, I let you go out on a little supply line assist and you're gone for days. Come on.
tabby		Have fun, boys.
kelly		If only it were fun. War's deadly serious, ma'am.
tabby		 And I used to think you were the only crazy one.
bart		Enough with the mind pollution, Hanoi Hannah.
kelly		I'm worried about you playing with diffusion unsupervised.
tabby		Are you?
kelly		Yes. I might have to come by and show you the proper safety procedures. Some time in the presence of an art prodigy would do you good.
tabby		I don't think I have room for a playpen in here.
kelly		Ouch.
bart		So, you have a thing for my sister?
kelly		What? No, no.
bart		Everybody does.
kelly		We just have a few things in common.
bart		Oh really, like what?
kelly		I can't tell you. It's my feminine side.
bart		You don't wear women's clothes when you're alone, do you?
kelly		Dad.
kelly		 Dad?
addict		Wha?
kelly		Sorry.
abe		Keller. There's a meteor shower.
kelly		A funny thing just happened. A little trip down memory lane. I thought you were on our couch, dead.
abe		Oh, you mean Emmett? They didn't have an empty bed for him at Care House.
kelly		Well that's one of your more brilliant ideas.  Have you thought about the fact that it might be dangerous? That he might steal something, or go into cardiac arrest? Drink all our cooking wine? Which he seems to have done.
abe		He just needs a place to sleep for the night.
kelly		You're right. Besides, having him here makes it feel like home.
abe		I've been straight for four years, almost five. A third of your life.
kelly		Big whoop. I've been straight the whole time.
abe		I hate to tell you this, but I'm not your problem anymore.
kelly		No. That's the one thing I get to decide.
abe		Let me know. I can wait.
abe		 Keller, there's a meteor shower.
kelly		I have the target in sight.
kelly		I think he's leaving.
bart		Let me see. Don't be a farb, give them up.
bart		The coast is clear.
bart		Let me prepare to deploy.
kelly		Is this going to work?
bart		We've planned for every contingency using the tried and true techniques of the last great world power.
kelly		Save it for the press conference.
bart		Stay low. On my signal.
kelly		We're the good guys. If you scream, the bad guys are going to come and burn down your house. Okay? So stay here and be quiet.
girl		My dad has a gun.
neighbor		Can I help you, young man?
kelly		I was just inspecting your lawn.
kelly		Have you thought about Astroturf? It takes a lot less water to keep green. I mean, no water, technically.
neighbor		I'm not interested.
kelly		Oh. I see. Okay then.
kelly		Oh, shit.
kelly		Oh, shit.
lance		Smile worker bee. I'll be your boss some day.
bart		What an asshole. His mom gave me cookies, though.
kelly		Did you get it done?
bart		Don't ask stupid questions. Let's go home and listen.
bart		It was a five-watt FM bug, so we should be in range -
lance's mom		 So then I told her, "Harriet, with potato salad like that it's no wonder Ray-Ray's cheating on you."
woman		 You didn't.
lance's mom		You're right. But I was thinking it. Instead I just told her to add more vinegar next time, and -
kelly		I don't think we can use any of this.
bart		Be patient. It's voice activated, so we'll get everything. Trust me. It's going to be great.
kelly		All right, then.
bart		We reconnoiter tomorrow at nineteen hundred hours.
eve		-- And if we don't sell them there, we'll set up on the corner of Stevens and Lane, by the gas station. That's a good location.
eve		Are you listening to me?
abe		Did you make this with more chili pepper than usual?
eve		The same as always.
eve		Kelly. Want dinner?
kelly		 I ate.
eve		One day, we're all going to be happy.
abe		That sounds nice.
bart		It's really too perfect, actually.
kelly		What? What?
bart		I can't describe. Just hit play. It's all cued up.
bridget		 I told you, that makes me nervous. Me no likey.
lance		But baby, my birthday's coming up.
bridget		Still. That's not a good enough reason.
lance		Come on. A little action. A little prime time action.
bridget		But people might see us.
lance		That's the point. That's what makes it sexxxy. Dangerous.
kelly		Dangerous.
bart		Exactly.
kelly		Let's draw up the plans.
bart		I have a few notes jotted down.
kelly		Oh Jesus, I'm so sorry -
bridget		Oh, it's okay -
bart		She dots her I's with hearts. And her L's are loopier. The L is very important.
kelly		I'm working on it.
kelly		I feel kind of bad for her. She's a nice girl.
bart		Sometimes collateral damage can't be avoided.
kelly		Stop it.
kelly		How does that look?
bart		 Pretty good. I think we're ready to manufacture a document.
bart		 Begin. "Hey Daddy. It's your birthday and you've been a very bad boy. But so has the baby. Both baby and Daddy have to get punished, only this time -
lance		 - baby makes the rules. Await further instructions at school tomorrow --
lance		 -- Baby will be waiting where Daddy least expects her. Love, Bridgie." Yes!
bart		Do you have everything?
bart		We can't afford any errors.
kelly		You don't need to tell me. It's my ass on the line.
bart		I wish I could be there to see it.
kelly		You'll get the de-brief.
bart		It's a day that will live in infamy.
kelly		You couldn't do any better than that?
bart		I don't hear you coming up with anything.
bridget		What's gotten into you?
lance		Nothing, you bad girl.
bridget		Did you drink a bottle of Robitussin before school again?
lance		See you soon, my naughty baby.
lance		It's my birthday! I'm going to get a present.
lance		Damn it, fuckface. What're you smiling about? You wish you were me.
lance		Mr. Palmer? May I be excused?
kelly		 Eine maus findet den kase.
lance		Daddy's here for the Easter egg hunt.
lance		Ooh, push my buttons.
lance		Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You little minx.
bart		 Yes, I need to get a message to Bridget Shumann. This is MENSA.
bridget		But I just got this note last period.
secretary		Well I don't have anything here for you - let me look again. Oh yes, the MENSA called.
bridget		Cool. They want me to be an honorary member.  Is that like a sorority or something?
lance		Bridgie? Come on, daddy's sick. He needs his medicine.
lance		I brought our friend along. He's happy to see you.
lance		What the fuck are you all looking at?
student 1		Look, he's got a hard on.
student 2		Eeeeew.
bart		You're kidding me.
kelly		Yup. There it was. The whole school saw it. Wasn't too impressive either.
bart		To Operation Mincemeat.
kelly		To the 193rd.
bart		How does it feel to give better than you get?
kelly		Good. Real good.
bart		You want some more?
kelly		 Don't mind if I do.
bart		That's my boy.
kelly		You know what this is?
kelly		Eighteen volts of pure freedom.
sarah		Sounds dangerous.
kelly		Oh, it is. Unless you know how to handle it.
kelly		You ever seen the freshly waxed floor in the produce section glistening under full florescence? It's breathtaking.
kelly		Hold on tight.
kelly		Close call.
sarah		Have you been drinking?
minnie		Kelly? Bart's not here, he -
kelly		Oh, that's all right. Actually, I'm here to see Tabby. Just to do a little painting with her.
minnie		She's out back in her studio.
kelly		Thanks.
tabby		Kelly?
kelly		Hey. I warned you I'd come.
tabby		You did.
kelly		Maybe I should go --
tabby		Well you're here now. Go ahead. Set your canvas up. Use one of the ones in the corner.
tabby		Brushes are in the jar. Paint's in the drawer.
kelly		I brought my own.
tabby		Well then.
kelly		Does it mess up your concentration? Me being here?
tabby		No.
kelly		Oh. That's good.
tabby		Just don't talk.
kelly		Why would I?
tabby		 I'm kidding.
kelly		Right. Irony. I like that.
miner		 Hey! Hey babe.
miner		Miner Webber.
kelly		Webber Miner.
tabby		Kelly. This is Kelly -
kelly		Kelly Ernswiler. Sorry. I -
miner		Quite all right.  So, what do we have here, a little painting class?
tabby		Kelly's a friend of Bart's. He paints.
miner		Oh? What's your real job?
kelly		That would be stock boy at the Shop Rite. But, as President Don Kaminsky says, every employee is part owner. So you could say I'm a captain-of- industry in training. Kind of capitalist larva.
miner		That's quite an image.
kelly		Only if you see the most magical part. Do you see?
miner		What?
kelly		One day I'll be a beautiful butterfly. First I'll have to be a pupa though. I figure I won't be going out much then. Pupa: the awkward adolescence of the insect world.
miner		Whatever it takes to get you through the day.
miner		I have the afternoon off. Come away with me.
tabby		I'm not at a good stopping point.
miner		Oh, come on. They'll still be here.  I know you'll still be here.
tabby		I really shouldn't.
miner		But everyone will be coming soon. And it will get all crazy, and we won't have any time to ourselves.
tabby		We will. I promise.
miner		Like tonight? We can practice honeymoon suite.
tabby		Maybe. Probably.
kelly		Is he always like that?
tabby		Like what?
kelly		Overbearing.
tabby		Just because he didn't want to picture you as a pupa?
kelly		Oh, he will - later. When he's alone. Whether he wants to or not.
kelly		Not that though. How he wanted you to stop.
tabby		He wants to be with me. What's so bad about that?
kelly		Just because some one wants to be with you doesn't mean they're good for you.
kelly		No one should ever ask you to stop. If you stop, you might not be able to start again. Or you might start again, only things will be different.
tabby		Well, that's sweet -
kelly		It's not sweet, actually. It's just the truth.
tabby		Hey, I can take care of myself.
kelly		When's the wedding?
tabby		At the end of the month. But don't ask me about it. It makes me nervous.
kelly		Why? Is something wrong?
tabby		No.
tabby		What are you painting?
kelly		Really, there are so many layers of - imagistic symbolism - that I really don't feel comfortable summing it up, but, well - it's a recurring dream image. A mermaid riding a rocket ship.
tabby		How?
kelly		What do you mean, "how?" Sidesaddle. She's riding it sidesaddle. She's got a fish tail, for chrissake. I haven't decided yet if she's got scuba gear on or not.
tabby		Do you have any idea what you're talking about?
kelly		Does that matter?
tabby		Well, some people actually say what they really think.
kelly		What if they don't know what they really think?
tabby		It doesn't matter. It's called being yourself.
kelly		Sounds boring.
tabby		Not boring. Scary and wonderful and exciting.
kelly		Hey. I'm trying to create here. Stop distracting me.
kelly		Mom's got you working late?
kelly		Wow. You're really good. Why do you make those stupid animals for mom?
kelly		I'm making a lot of art these days. I guess that means a lot of lessons.
kelly		Oh, that's all?
eve		Hey you two. I'll try not to act surprised. It might spoil the moment.
kelly		I can't do this. I have to go.
eve		Keller, I think I'm missing some art supplies. Have you seen them around the house?
kelly		No, I haven't.
eve		I don't know what to do with him.
eve		When are you going to let me give you your own show? We could do it for real.
bart		 -- But I told you I want to take German --
harrison		German's a Cold War language. You can't get any kind of State Department position without more diverse linguistic training than that. You'll take Chinese.
harrison		Are we on the same page?
bart		 Same page.
mathilda		 So darling, when are you going to bite the bullet and do the seating arrangement?
tabby		I can't deal with that stuff, ma. I don't care who sits next to whom. I should have eloped.
kelly		After all, Mrs. Bowland, sometimes when you bite the bullet, it explodes in your mouth.
mathilda		 Why, I've never thought about it before but that is a rather strange expression, isn't it? You wouldn't say, "Sooner or later you've got to put the grenade in your pants," would you?
harrison		But have you ever noticed how in movies they always bite the grenade before they throw it?
kelly		Yeah, but they never take a bite out of their pants.
mathilda		What an unusual conversation! Do you have similar discussions at the dinner table with your family, Kelly?
kelly		Basically. I ask why all the furniture is missing and my Dad reminisces about dropping acid and watching Neil Armstrong walk on the moon.
tabby		He talks about art.
kelly		My mother's kind of an artist, so -
harrison		You come from a creative family, do you?
mathilda		I wish my boys would talk to me about my passions. I can't get them anywhere near the subject of my garden.
kelly		I noticed your magnolias. Very fine specimens.
mathilda		They are fine, aren't they?
bart		 Is there nothing you can't discuss?
harrison		Here, Kelly, try a bit of these leeks. Minnie has a way with the white sauce.
bart		My dad has this friend who's a director. He's shooting a documentary for the History Channel.
kelly		Cool.
bart		He needs some guys to do a reenactment of some European theater battles for him.
kelly		We're going to be on the History Channel?
bart		I haven't asked you yet.
kelly		Oh, come on.
bart		Well, if you want to. Next weekend. But you have to take it seriously.
kelly		What do you mean? Of course I will.
bart		From what I've seen, you play fast and loose with your characterizations. This has got to be straight up.
kelly		I'm not "fast and loose." I play the emotional truth. I make it real.
bart		Like back in the dining room?
kelly		What does that have to do with it?
bart		 "I noticed your magnolias. Very fine specimens." That was real?
kelly		What is this about?
bart		 You just seem to have your own agenda, that's all.
kelly		My own agenda? What other reason is there to do anything?
bart		I'm just saying. I know the difference between fantasy and reality.
kelly		Are you saying I don't?
bart		I don't know.
bart		Why didn't you tell me your dad was a burn-out?
kelly		Why do you steal from yours?
principal		Kelly! I told some of your teachers about your presentation. We're all really looking forward to it.
sarah		What presentation?
kelly		I don't want to talk about it. As a matter of fact, do me a favor and pretend you never heard anything about it.
sarah		Okay. Um.
kelly		What, Sarah?
sarah		It's nothing. I -
sarah		I have an extra ticket to Aerosmith this weekend.
kelly		Aw Sarah, that's really great, I mean. It's just that - I'm busy.
sarah		Oh. Yeah, I figured. Okay. I'll see you in the dairy section, though.
kelly		Right.
kelly		What are you doing here?
bart		I tracked you down. There's someone I'd like you to meet.
charlie		 Are you one too?
kelly		Yup.
charlie		And what do you see in that?
kelly		Living, dying, camaraderie, bravery - the big stuff. Things we don't have anymore.
charlie		I see.
charlie		And do you think it's brave getting trench foot and syphilis, eating another ration of spoiled frank and beans out of a dented can?
kelly		Well, no -
charlie		Yeah, that wouldn't be much fun, would it?
kelly		No, sir.
charlie		Parts of it were kind of fun though. I got separated from my platoon and lived for two weeks in the forest of the Ardennes living off what I could kill.  I felt very close to the land.
bart		I met him when my mom made me go around caroling with the Youth Group.
kelly		You don't really believe that stuff about Berlin? And Hitler's compound?
bart		Does it matter?
kelly		Of course it matters. Doesn't the truth matter?
bart		I don't know. You tell me.
kelly		I want a drink. Let me borrow a couple bucks.
bart		I told you not to play him for money.
kelly		I was trying to be nice. He's your friend.
bart		Exactly. You should know better. What do you want.
kelly		Mountain Dew -
kelly		-- Oh shit.
eve		Kelly!
bart		That woman's calling you.
kelly		 Bart. Meet my mom.
eve		What a nice surprise. It's so nice to finally meet you.
bart		Likewise. So, doing a little business?
eve		A little is right. But I work it as much as I can.
eve		So, what have you boys been up to?
kelly		Bart took me to meet his friend Charlie at the Old Soldiers' Home.
eve		Charlie at the Old Soldiers' Home?
kelly		You don't know him.
eve		You boys should swing by Care House. There are some Vets there.
kelly		We can't.
eve		Oh. Well - okay.
eve		I should go. But you boys should come over to our house some time.  I know your family must get tired of him.
bart		Not at all. But I'd love to, anyway.
kelly		There you go. Now you know everything.
bart		What's your problem? She's pretty cute.
bart		Don't you want your soda?
kelly		Forget it.
bart		So filming's on Saturday. Can you make it?
kelly		Are you kidding?
bart		Good. It's gonna be really cool. He's got an explosives expert coming.
bart		What's up?
kelly		Remember that stupid speech?
kelly		I'm supposed to give it next week.
bart		Maybe you should talk to my dad about it.
kelly		You think he'd go for that?
bart		Of course. He loves you. He was talking the other day about helping you out.  Want to go to Dartmouth?
kelly		Are you serious?
bart		He was. If you applied for Spring Semester, he could "pull some strings."
kelly		 I don't think that would work for me. Considering -- my background.
bart		Yeah, probably not.
kelly		I'm not properly socialized. I wouldn't fit in.
bart		That's bullshit.
kelly		No, it's not.
bart		Tell that to my family. They're like your fucking fan club.
bart		Even Tabby likes you.
kelly		So much she ratted me out to you.
bart		Well, she's inviting you to the wedding.
kelly		Oh.
bart		But you probably won't enjoy that much, will you?
kelly		I don't know what you're talking about. Weddings? I love weddings. I always get drunk and make out with someone's cousin.
bart		Good, I'll call mom's nephew Fletcher and tell him to expect a little action.
kelly		Fletcher, eh?
bart		He's twelve. Let me give some advice. He's very into sharks at the moment.
kelly		Why did you tell --
kelly		What? Oh, I'm sorry.
tabby		Miner and I broke up.
kelly		I'm sorry.
tabby		Yeah.
kelly		Honestly? I didn't think you two were right for each other.
tabby		You did, huh?
kelly		Like this painting. Stare at it too long and you can't see it anymore. But if someone else sees it for the first time, they can tell exactly what it is.
tabby		I don't need any more bullshit right now.
kelly		He could never understand you.
tabby		I'm not as complicated as you think.
kelly		I never said you were complicated.
tabby		Oh.
kelly		He just wasn't the right one.
tabby		There's more to it than that.
kelly		I'm really sorry. I really am.
tabby		Thanks.
kelly		Don't cry.
tabby		You like me, don't you?
kelly		Of course.
tabby		No, I mean -- you like me.
kelly		Yeah. I think you're amazing.
tabby		Well, do something.
bart		 All right, all right. I'm going.
kelly		Damn it. Damn it.
kelly		What?
mathilda		Minnie's starting dinner. Is Kelly coming over?
bart		Not tonight, ma.
mathilda		Okay, then.
director		Are you with the 101st or the 82nd?
kelly		Well, 82nd today. It's not my usual division. Technically, my patches indicate -
director		Whatever. Make yourself comfortable. We'll be a while setting up. Some of the other boys are over by craft service.
kelly		Oh?
director		The snack table. It's over there. Someone will come get you when we're ready.
kelly		Right. Is Bart Bowland here yet?
director		Bart? Oh, Harrison's son. I don't know.
kelly		Ok. Thanks.
makeup artist		 And you are?
kelly		Kelly Ernswiler, private first class.
makeup artist		All right, Kelly. Let's take a look at you.
makeup artist		That's it, handsome.
kelly		That MG? She's mine.
kelly		Sure. I don't think that would be a problem.
kelly		Have you seen Bart Bowland? Has he checked in?
kelly		 Hot Lips, old girl, you're going to be famous.
kelly		Password.
kelly		Hey! Where the hell have you been?
bart		No where.
kelly		They put you over here with me? That's great. I think we'll get some close- ups. They want me to drive old Lippy. Isn't that awesome?
kelly		What the hell's your problem?
bart		I ought to fucking kill you.
kelly		What?
bart		You had to do it.
kelly		What are you talking about?
bart		You just do whatever the fuck you want. And consequences don't matter, do they?
kelly		Are you out of your mind?
bart		What the fuck do you think she's going to do, run off with you?
bart		You're a seventeen-year-old bag boy. She's a Yale grad student. Talk about living in a fucking fantasy world.
kelly		No. You'd rather have me be miserable like you are.
bart		 Once again, you've displayed your uncanny ability to nail the truth of a character.
kelly		Stop talking out your dad's mouth and use your own for once.
kelly		I don't want to talk about it.
eve		Well, you're going to have to. Your father's at the hospital.
kelly		Which one of his loser friends ended up there?
eve		They think he has stomach cancer.
kelly		Oh this is just perfect.
eve		Why would you say something like that?
kelly		Because it seems to fit.
eve		"Seems to fit." Do you understand what I just said?
kelly		Why, do you want to say it again?
eve		Kelly -
kelly		I have to go to work.
sarah		I forgot to tell you this box was booby-trapped.
sarah		The concert was lame. The opening act singer ripped his leather pants during a stupid dance routine and stormed off stage.  Are you okay?
kelly		No.
sarah		Lance?
kelly		No.
kelly		Listen, I'm busy.
sarah		Sure. I understand.
kelly		I doubt it.
sarah		Um, I don't have a perfect life, if that's what you're asking.
kelly		No, Sarah, actually, I'm not asking. I never ask you anything but you just talk anyway. Have you ever noticed that?
sarah		Fuck you.
kelly		Hey, I hoped you were up -
tabby		Kelly?
kelly		I just came to get this.
tabby		Hey.
kelly		I guess the wedding's back on.
tabby		We talked.
tabby		I'm really sorry.
kelly		Don't be.
kelly		My dad's got cancer.
tabby		Oh, Kelly.
kelly		I guess we all get what we deserve.
kelly		Stupid bitch.
holmstead		For those of you who haven't had the chance to get to know Kelly, you should know he has a very interesting hobby. He takes part in reenactments of World War II battles right here in Ohio.
audience kid		I did that too. When I was seven.
holmstead		He has an unusual first-hand knowledge of history. We recently discovered that this extends beyond World War II to the Civil War, which he is going to discuss with you today. Kelly?
kelly		I'm sorry.
holmstead		 Well, go after him.
lance		What, they re-assign you to the bicycle brigade?
kelly		I'm busy.
lance		Too bad, cause I'm not. Remember that little show I put on for the school?
kelly		I don't know what you're talking about.
lance		Oh, come on. Pants down? Doll? Hard on?
kelly		Oh that. I heard about it.
lance		And did you hear me and Bridget aren't going out anymore because of it?
kelly		I haven't been following the story.
lance		Yeah well, let's get this over with.
kelly		It is over.
kelly		Just let me go home.
lance		Did you call me a homo?
kelly		This isn't a good time for me. Let's re-schedule.
lance		No time like the present.
kelly		First you should probably get me to write home to my mother.
lance		Get off me.
minnie		Bart's not here. Sorry.
eve		Oh Kelly. What happened?
kelly		Nothing.
eve		Jesus. Let me see that.
kelly		Ow.
eve		I'm going over to see dad.
kelly		Oh.
eve		And you need to come.
kelly		I don't want to.
eve		At this point that's not an option.
kelly		Now's not a good time, ma.
eve		It's never a good time.
kelly		You can't make me.
eve		 It's not about you anymore --
kelly		Don't you get it? It was never about me.
eve		 What is wrong with you? When are you going to stop blaming us, blaming him? I'm sick of you being angry. I want to be angry! They just took out half of your father's stomach -
kelly		Enough.
eve		 You will not tell me what's enough. You don't know about anything. All you do is fight fake battles, in the woods, on the playground. But this, right here, us - this is the real one, the only one worth anything.
eve		The man I love is dying.
kelly		That's between you and him.
eve		If I made a mistake, if you felt left out, I'm sorry. But I can only deal with one thing at a time.
harrison		Don't sit any of Mathilda's sisters next to me if you can help it.  Oh, hello. So nice to see you. Thank you for coming.
harrison		 Where's the priest?
bart		He should be here any minute. Calm down.
bart		What the fuck are you doing?
kelly		I was invited.
bart		I uninvited you.
kelly		It's not your wedding.
bart		Why are you wearing that?
bart		 I can't let you come in.
kelly		Why?
bart		Because you know why. Just go home.
kelly		She looks beautiful. Tell her - give her my congratulations.
kelly		Grandma Ling. Can you fix this?
kelly		Did you come here to work on your own stuff? Don't waste your time on this.
kelly		You're trying to tell me something, aren't you?
abe		Hey. Kelly.
kelly		Hey dad. How you feeling?
abe		Not bad.
kelly		They gave me some stitches downstairs.  Three.
abe		Did you get punched?
kelly		A couple times, actually.
abe		I know the feeling. Come on in and watch some television. Don't worry, this one's bolted to the wall. As you can see, my reputation precedes me.
abe		Any battles this weekend?
kelly		A few.
abe		Busy, busy.
abe		Answer me this: how come no one ever reenacts the Vietnam War?
kelly		It'd be pretty depressing, wouldn't it?
abe		I guess it would.
kelly		Plus that, you'd have to have protesters and stuff.
abe		Folks dressed up like your mom and me. People reenacting fleeing to Canada, burning draft cards. I guess that would ruin the spirit of the thing, now wouldn't it?
kelly		I could make it work.
abe		I bet you could.
eve		Kelly, is that you?
kelly		You were expecting some one else?
kelly		He looks good.
eve		He looks just like you.
bart		Hey.
kelly		Hey. You going away already?
bart		Yeah. The have this intensive summer orientation thing.
kelly		Is that good?
bart		Well, it's optional, but dad thinks it would be "a good way to meet people."
kelly		He's probably right.
bart		He usually is.
kelly		Well, go Big Green.
bart		Thanks.
kelly		Have fun. And get laid, will ya?
harrison		Is that everything?
bart		Everything you'd let me bring.
harrison		Give me a break.
kelly		Hey.
sarah		Hey.
kelly		How come you don't work here anymore? The Electro-shopper's getting rusty.
sarah		I've got a summer internship at an ad agency.
kelly		Fancy.
sarah		It's all right, I guess.
kelly		No, it's great.
kelly		Hey -
sarah		When are you going to get a real job?
kelly		I don't know. Probably when I figure out something better to do.
sarah		You can't be a stock boy your whole life.
kelly		Yeah I can. I mean, I probably won't, but I could.
sarah		Well, it was good seeing you.
kelly		Um.
sarah		What?
kelly		Remember that presentation I told you never to ask me about again?
kelly		Lee arrayed his defenses over here. Only this time, Grant was ready for him.
charlie		The real kicker was moving those cutouts of tanks around. The thought we had a whole regiment over there, but it was just a couple of us and those Hollywood props.
eve		That's amazing. Art playing a part in war.
charlie		You're damned right. We practically won the thing right there.  Now this is more like it. Anyone care to place a wager on the table?
sarah		If you think it would be more fun.
charlie		You're never been to a French whorehouse, I take it.
eve		I have.
kelly		I still don't understand how you did that.
sarah		I spent my summers with my grandma in the Catskills. She didn't give me any spending money.  So I played the bones for ice cream.
kelly		Hot damn.
****Dialogues from script :Beach.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Bean.txt****

gareth		I suppose we could just sack him. CUT TO:
cut to:		EXT.    THE STRAND.     DAY.
cut to:		INT.   NATIONAL GALLERY.    BOARDROOM - DAY
gareth		Look, I don't hate the man but ...
lord walton		I know, Gareth. It's the mental strain he inflicts on us all. How is Professor Bradbury
lord walton		Mmmm, and how far are we with the computer, Hubert?
hubert		Timothy is loading the final catalogue data as we speak, Milord. An awful thing to say, but when the program's up and running our, Mr. Bean will become a little less than .... useful?  A glimmer of hope.
guard		 Morning, Bean.
gareth		Maybe it would be simpler to pack all our paintings onto trucks and move the entire National Gallery somewhere else. And not tell him.
hubert		Seconded.     We could all move to France.
george		All those in favour.
lord walton		Come on - settle down everyone. CUT TO: INT.   NATIONAL GALLERY.    ELEVATOR - DAY
vincent		I'm sorry I'm late.
vincent		Steady on, old man. I only ...
gareth		Not you, you idiot.
cut to:		INT.   NATIONAL GALLERY.    CORRIDOR - DAY
suit man		Ah Bean, I'm looking for a painting by Van Hocht.    Still Life.
suit man		What would we do without you! The entire inventory of British Art stored in that one, curious brain of yours.
gareth		Then we are agreed, gentlemen.   He goes.
vincent		Only if we're positive that the new catalogue database will render Mr. Bean's hitherto 'talents' obsolete.
hubert		There's no question.
lord walton		Very well.   Mr Bean is.... art history.    We can all stop taking the pills.
lord walton		Miss Hutchinson, would you send Mr. Bean up to the boardroom, please.
lord walton		Thank you.  One final thing. Once again we have been invited by the Grierson Gallery of Southern California to second one of our staff for a short visit. The Grierson has a fairly modest collection - but it does include the most famous American painting of all, 'Whistler's Mother'. Any thoughts?
lord walton		Yes. Sir Rupert. And may I say sir, how honoured we are that you still grace us with all your time, wisdom, and infinite knowledge. Your invaluable thoughts, sir?
sir rupert		Could you speak up please. I didn't catch the question.
suit man		Thank you, Bean.      You're a genius.
miss hutchinson		Mr. Bean.     Lord Walton would like to see you in the boardroom.
cut to:		INT.     NATIONAL GALLERY.      CORRIDOR.   DAY
programmer		What's happening here?
bean		Ahm...
bean		Ah.... Ahm....
cut to:		INT.     NATIONAL GALLERY.      BOARDROOM - DAY
lord walton		You have your voting slips, gentlemen.          Please remember the
lord walton		 Ah, Mr. Bean. Please take a seat for a moment.      I have some news which will not, I'm afraid...
lord walton		 Yes?     Put him on... Timothy. The computer ... Yes... When? How? All    of it? Absolutely all of it? Did you back it up? How long will    it ... ? Another six months. Fair enough. Come up here will    you, dear boy.
lord walton		As I was saying, gentlemen. The Grierson Gallery. South California. Great opportunity. Thousands-of miles-away though it is. Doctorate or  no doctorate, perhaps
lord walton		Mr. Bean.     Wonderful news. You are going to America.
lord walton		 Ah, Timothy.    You're sacked.
grierson		Lord Walton assures me this guy's one of the very top scholars in the English art world. Has a couple of doctorates no less.
bernie		Great news.
9		First, catching under the handle - then the couch, then
mix through to:		INT.    AIRPORT.   RECEPTION DESK.   NIGHT
grierson		So ... I'm wondering if one of you would have this guy stay in your home instead of some expensive hotel.
bernie		Love to, sir, but no can do. No spare room.   Period.
grierson		David?
david		Oh, look, I mean, it's kind of the last thing... I mean, I'd really like to, but... things at home are kind of sensitive, so I couldn't really er ...
grierson		I thought perhaps as Vice-President, and in view of the unfortunate attendance's for the summer show this year... the MASSIVE financial LOSS ...
david		on the other hand ... maybe a breath of fresh air is just what my family needs ... Yes. Great news. Fabulous. Triumphant. Course it might need a little smoothing over. When's he due?
grierson		Tomorrow.   You have a problem with that?
david		No. Perfect.   Looking forward to it. CUT TO:
david		Hi, Jennifer. How was school?  oh really? That's good, great. Fantastic. We'll talk some more.
charles		Hello, David.
david		Hi, Charles.  Wow - late!
alison		 I had to do some last minute stuff.
charles		My fault. We've got a heavy load on at present.     How about you, gallery going well?
david		Ahm, well, you know ~ that's a tough question - on one' level I think it ....
alison		Don't ask him about work, Charlie. Life's too short.
alison		Kevin!   You stop that right now!
charles		Great kids.     Good looking too.
david		You think so?    Well I 'spose they're pretty, you know... okay, looks-wise.
david		Ah ... absolutely.
cut to:		INT.   THE LEARY HOUSE.   KITCHEN - DAY
alison		Let's take a break, David. This weekend, why don't we just get into the car and drive to the coast. Find a motel. Like before the kids were born. Go to a fairground. Win me another Bambi.
alison		Jennifer can stay and look after Kevin
david		Sounds great. Excellent. Though-, Ahm... there's this guy who's coming to work at the Gallery, from England...
alison		 Yeeees?
david		And they asked me if we'd like to ... you know... put him up for a while.
alison		There aren't hotels?
david		Yes, there are hotels. They just thought maybe it'd be nice for him to stay with a real American family. Popcorn, waffles, all that stuff.
alison		 And what did you say?
david		I said I'd check with you.
david		Then I said 'yes'.
alison		Do we know anything about him?
david		Ahm - he's male. He's English. He's a doctor of er ...      at least 2 things. I think they would have mentioned if he was a     blind dwarf. Or one of those guys who kills lots of people all     the time. I think we're looking at someone moderately normal     here.
alison		David - are you ever going to learn to say 'no'?
david		Yes.   Yes.  Sometime.
alison		It's the last thing we need.
david		That's exactly what I said ... before I said - Great, it's a sensational idea."
kevin		Hiya Dad ~ I'll need you upstairs for homework in about ....  oh, 20 minutes.
david		Great, good.
david		Didn't kids do their own homework, like way back?     Years ago? No. Course not. Just imagining it.
old lady		Be careful.   It's for my Grand-daughter.
jennifer		Oh come on - the guy's going to be a creep.   All Englishmen are ugly.
david		What makes you say that?
jennifer		All the guys they claim are English to and good-looking like Dan Day-Lewis and Liam Neeson, turn out to be Irish. Even Anthony Hopkins is welsh. Prince Charles is so ugly they pay him two million bucks a year to stay indoors.
david		Richard Burton was very good-looking.
jennifer		Welsh.
david		Sean Connery.
alison		Scottish.
david		Tom Jones?
jennifer		Welsh again.
david		Okay, so the guy's gonna look like Meatloaf's backside.    No-one's asking you to go to bed with him.
alison		Bed sounds good though.    Bed sounds great.
kevin		 Who do you think is the ugliest guy who ever lived.
david		Well, Michael Bolton's pretty grisly.
kevin		I vote for Bart.
jennifer		Shut up, Kevin.
kevin		NO, seriously - I know he's your boyfriend, but there's something about his upper lip that is so weird. What do you think it is, Dad? Jen says it's a moustache, I say it's a cluster of about 11 mosquitoes, resting.
jennifer		You know the thing I hate most about children?
kevin		Nope.
jennifer		You.
cop 1		Police!   Stop or we shoot!
cop 1		Carefully take out your weapon, holding the butt with two fingers only. Slowly place it on the floor and take three paces back!
brutus		Mr. Bean. Are you presently on any kind of medication at all?
brutus		You could certainly use some.
alison		What did they say?
david		Well, they're kind of busy but it doesn't look like ...
alison		Did you really ask?
david		I'm not sure I got the right person but they were a bit busy ...
alison		What's wrong with you, David? All you have to do is say, Excuse me, I've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world. I'll go.
alison		I said, I'11 go.
jennifer		So. where do your parents live?
stingo		My parents are dead.
jennifer		Yeah, so are mine.
cop 1		Just get him the hell out of here, will ya?  He slams the door and the taxi drives away.  CUT TO:  INT.   AMERICAN AIRPORT-.     ARRIVALS - NIGHT  The LEARYS are all asleep in eccentric positions on the seats. JENNIFER's head is resting on STINGO's leg. Kevin's cardboard sign with 'MR. BEAN, written on it falls from his lap to the floor.  CUT TO:
cab driver		Thanks man, I can't tell you how much I appreciate talking to ya. In this job you get so many jerks spilling their guts all over ya, with their stupid problems ... But you, you're a great listener, ya know that?
cut to:		EXT.     THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
alison		It isn't working any more, David.
david		I know - I'11 take it in to George tomorrow'- he'll fix it. Stupid thing.
alison		No, US.     It's not working any longer -you and me.
david		Jesus.
alison		I need some time, David. A little time.        It's not just you. It's partly me.
cut to:		EXT.   THE LEARY HOUSE - NIGHT
jennifer		Thanks a lot, Kevin!
cut to:		INT.   THE LEARY HOUSE.   D & A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
cut to:		INT.   THE LEARY HOUSE.   BATHROOM - NIGHT
david		That poor guy, Bean ... He's probably still sitting at London Airport!
cut to:		INT. THE LEARY HOUSE. D & A'S BEDROOM - NIGHT ALISON is still watching T.V. The volume is getting to DAVID.
david		Alison, please.
david		I need to make a confession. I know you're awake.       Please, it's important.
alison		 Go ahead.
david		I had the last strawberry in the refrigerator.
alison		There were three strawberries.
david		One.
33		ALISON Liar.
david		0h Ali we can work this thing out, you know.
david		Ali?    What's wrong?
alison		Your face smells like a foot.
alison		What is it?    Jennifer!
jennifer		 ... There's a man ... there's a man ... there's a man in my...
david		Honey, calm down now... it's okay...
jennifer		 There's a man.    I woke up next to a man ...
alison		Shut up, Kevin.  Honey, you-re not making sense ...
david		It's okay.    There's no one out here. Just open the door.   Trust me.
alison		He can't stay here, David.
david		Okay. It's not a problem... Let's just sit ... I'11 talk to the gallery ...
alison		David, I'm serious!
david		I know you are.   Very serious ... most of the time these days.
alison		Now what does that mean? My daughter wakes up with a strange man in her bed, and I'm supposed to think it's amusing?  That tie's God-awful. Why do you wear it?
david		Ah, Mr Bean ...
bean		Excuse me.
cut to:		INT.   THE LEARY HOUSE.    KITCHEN - DAY
bean		Now - can I help?
cut to:		 EXT.   THE LEARY HOUSE - DAY  DAVID and BEAN arrive at the car and get in.          DAVID heads out of the drive at a reasonable speed.  BEAN suddenly yanks on the hand-brake. DAVID's head hits the windshield with a sickening thud. BEAN reaches for and fastens his seat belt. He looks to DAVID. DAVID gives BEAN a pained look. What planet does he come from? He fastens his own seat belt while BEAN wonders why it's all taking so long.  CUT TO:  EXT.   THE GRIERSON GALLERY.      CAR PARKING - DAY  It's a rather fancy building. Like a little Guggenheim DAVID parks by a large, expensive, looking car. BEAN opens his door and it bangs-hard against the pristine body work.  CUT TO:
annie		Two dollars please.
david		Annie, it's me.
annie		Oh, right, yeah.  two dollars please.
david		No, Annie, no.    This is Doctor Bean. He's going to be working with us.
annie		Oh, great. Usually we charge people two dollars to come in- but for people who work here, that would be 730 dollars a year, which is like, a lot of money, so we kinda like let them off. Hi.
annie		He doesn't like to say much does he?
david		Right first time.
annie		I can understand THAT. Neither do I.
david		You'll notice, our clientele is not totally young. I sometimes worry they're not really getting to grips with the art on a deep aesthetic level.
david		Beautiful.    'HIS MISTRESS' by John Everett Millais, 1829 to 96. Know it?
annie		Excuse me.    Mr Grierson called down. He's ready to see you upstairs.
david		Thanks, Annie.
david		Better go.    Grierson hates people being late.
bean		Yes.   Ahm... think I'11 ...
david		Why me?
cut to:		 INT.    GRIERSON GALLERY.   WASH ROOM - DAY  BEAN    comes out of a booth. He tidies his hair and tie in a mirror. He pushes down    the pressurised tap to wash his hands. It splashes terribly. The whole front    of his trousers are soaked. The last thing you want when about to meet your    new boss. Damn!  There now follow a quick, complicated piece of business.  1/ BEAN spots a paper-towel dispenser. He turns towards it at just the moment a man exits from a booth - BEAN turns back to the sink to hide his trousers, as the man swiftly does his hands, goes to the paper dispenser, and takes the last towel. Damn again.  2/ BEAN    now puts    his hope in a rolling    towel. But it's rather high. He has to jump    to try to    reach the trouser.     At which point Another Man enters. Jumping    BEAN has    been caught in a very    weird position. He pretends he has .chosen    the Men's    Room as the place to    do his rather energetic exercise routine.  3/ As the man leaves, he then tries to blow the patch dry with his mouth. Another Man enters. Again, BEAN is 1 compromised - pretends it's even more exercises. That man also enters a booth.  4/ BEAN suddenly notices the hand drying machine! He turns it on. A healthy blast of warm air. Annoyingly, it's also rather too high. He tries jumping and bouncing to get his waist to the right height. It's not going to work. Brainwave! He climbs up on two sinks. Now the drier is blowing in exactly the right place. BEAN sways to let the air cover the whole area. It's working excellently.  5/ At which moment, one of the men exits from         a booth and sees him in the mirror. BEAN is in an immensely compromising          sex-with-machine position. He pretends he's there to change the light bulb         above, which he takes out calmly and polishes. The man leaves, BEAN smiles.           But as he exits, BEAN's face transforms - he's totally scalded his fingers         on the scorching bulb.  40
david		Come on!     Let's go!
grierson		Ah, David. Finally.  And this must be our professor from across the sea.
david		Yes, this is Doctor Bean.
bean		Actually I'm not .... er ...
grierson		This is Bernard Schimmel. Bernie the Doctor.
thomas grierson		Ah ~ the Tribune - mind if I just ....
grierson		Take a seat, gentlemen..... although before we settle - feast your eyes on these.
grierson		Arthur Rackham. Originals of course. Got four of them. Check this out ... Venus and the Cat, Aesop's Fables. Isn't that something?
grierson		Maybe. Hell of a price, I'11 tell you.     Anyway - down to business.
grierson		Bernie was just showing me his new ideas for a cross-gallery computer system. Dr Bean - would you like to look at this? Very exciting stuff ....
bean		Ahm ... NO.
bernie		What I'm doing, Dave, is developing the ultimate user-friendly,' interactive public guide to the gallery.
david		It's very good Bernie.
bernie		But the particular glory of the system... is that it can also work oh large screens in each individual room - so we can network the program to every room in the gallery.
grierson		Not bad, eh?    What do you think, Doctor?   Ah.... Doctor Bean?
grierson		Well, thanks for dropping by. Enjoy your stay with our Vice President and his family. They're simple people.-.but warm, yes, Doctor?
bean		I'm not actually... um...
grierson		... Settled in yet. I know. Plenty of time. Bernie, perhaps you'd like to take Dr. Bean on a tour of the gallery.
bernie		Absolutely.     This way, sir.
grierson		He's a genius, right?
david		Ah... He certainly has something, sir.
grierson		Very pleased you've taken him in, David. At a time when no-one's job is safe, it really identifies you as a team player.
david		Yes, although, I really..... thank you. Yes, it's great to have him with us. The whole family's very excited.
grierson		Glad to hear it.     Tell poor Mr Larson to come through, will you?
david		You're not going to ....
grierson		Sack him? David, what else can I do? This business is not, repeat, not breaking even. And David ... notice anything this morning?
david		You've tinted your hair? It takes years off you, sir.
david		Goodnight Annie.
annie		Night.
cut to:		EXT.   THE GRIERSON GALLERY.   BY PARKING LOT - DAY
robber		Gimme the keys!
robber		I said, give me the keys!
robber		OKAY, OKAY - TAKE IT EASY!!!
bean		1,2,3,4, 5, 6,7,8, 9,10
robber		But I haven't got a f.....
bean		Ssssh!!!!
cut to:		EXT.   SHOPPING MALL.   PARKING LOT ~ DAY
robber		I haven't got a gun.
robber		Okay, okay, I'11 do it!
cop 1		Excuse me.    Mr. er ... Cabbage?
brutus		It's Eddie Guardino.     Go pick him up.
brutus		Guardino fled the scene with 160 K, in a white plastic bag. We got the car. We got the bag. And we got 20 pairs of stinking pantyhose.  Anything you wanna tell me?
brutus		'Fraid I'm gonna have to keep this.
brutus		Mr. Bean.     You lookin' to stay long in California?
david		He was incredible.     This guy is fearless.     He has no fear.
kevin		That's one - way of looking at it.        You might also say this guy is brainless he has no brain'.
david		Well, there is that ...
kevin		 I'11 give you a chance... Know anything about computers?
bean		Ahm....
kevin		It's so embarrassing. All the guys I know are on Goblins 3 and
kevin		Come on, winkle.
kevin		It's gotta be here.     Something to get the key away from the stupid cuckoo.
bean		Click, click, click, click, click ...
kevin		How'd you do that!?     That was so obvious!!!
kevin		Beanie, you are waaaaay Cool!
david		Hi,
alison		Hi.....  Roses.
david		Yes. And    I have a wine for dinner that will kill you.
alison		Great.  You said you'd ask Grierson about putting our guest somewhere else. Did you?
david		Sort of half.....
alison		Meaning?
david		I was sort of half way through the sentence in which I would have asked him when it suddenly seemed like a mistake.
alison		Honestly David, you're so spineless.
david		Roses.     Wine.
alison		But no real change.
alison		I really do need some time on my own. Away from here.
david		Look, Bean's history. I swear to you, he's packing as we speak. And you can't leave.  I've got Bambi. You never go anywhere without him. Please let's just talk.
alison		Okay.  Put Bambi down, and we'll talk.
david		Look, you guys, could you just give us a moment to ... Jennifer - could you turn that damn thing down.
alison		No, that's not for the TV. That's for the ...
kevin		I wish I    could use    that at school. "Hey, Teach, no hard feelings    ... It's    just things between us ain't what they used to be and    I need a    little space, ya know? So I'11 see you around in    a couple    of years, maybe".
jennifer		It's a kind of an interesting swap. Mom for the Man from Ga Ga.
david		Jen - you don't wanna talk about it?
jennifer		It's you and Mom that need to talk.
david		Sure.    You're right.
kevin		You know, Mr. Bean's okay. You're not gonna kick him out, are you, Dad?
jennifer		 Of course he is.
kevin		Are you?
david		Yes, I am.    I must.
cut to:		 INT.   HALL/BEAN'S ROOM.   DAY.
bean		 Enter.
david		Hi, am I disturbing you?
david		May I?
david		None of your folks here - Family?
david		Look... the reason I came in here was to ... well... since you've been here twelve all...
david		Well, that's er...great. Look, I just came in ...  ... to say good night. Okay?
david		Spineless. CUT TO:
cut to:		INT.   THE GRIERSON GALLERY.   CANTEEN - DAY.
david		Bean can I ask you something?
david		Do you think you can ever really know someone? Even if you've known them, well, almost all your life? What do you think?
david		I think the time has come from you to meet the grand Madame. She's all around you ... how do you fancy meeting her in the flesh?
david		I usually only let her out for the big summer exhibition - but' let's see whether what they say about the healing power of great works of art is true, huh?
david		As you can see, security's pretty tight in this section.   Nobody gets past Elmer here. Isn't that right?
elmer		Not in one piece anyway. I see Mrs Whistler as kind of ... like my own dear mother. I'd kill any man that tried to interfere with her. The Vice President here will vouch for that.
david		You've known me five years Elmer. When do you get to calling me David?
elmer		Not my place, sir. It would only be a matter of time before I'm calling you Dave. Then where would we be? By next year, you're
david		You think he's tough you should see the size of the hunk that works the night shift.
david		Stay there.    Keep your eyes closed. One final lock, one final key.
david		Right.   Open now.
david		I'11 leave you with her for a few minutes. I'm sure you'll want to give her a proper inspection. But whatever you do, don't leave the room. Megasecurity, okay? Catch you.
bean		 What the ... !!!
elevator voice		Second floor.
thin woman		I guess I'll see you up there, guys.
elevator voice		Third floor.
cut to:		EXT.   GRIERSON GALLERY - DAY
bernie		I was hoping DU.     Bean might take a look at my computer project today.
david		Yes. I'11 mention it to him.       But ... he's kind of his own guy, you know?
bernie		Howls he getting on with the family?
david		Ah. Fine.     It's good.   It's great.
bernie		And howls Alison?
david		She's ... well, she's good.
bernie		Saw her at the movies the other night with that boss of hers. Nice guy. Good looking.
david		Yes, isn't he.
david		Isn't it?
bernie		I like to think that's what's happened with you and me ... even though you're kinda my boss. Still maybe it won't always be that way, huh?
david		Look, I've left Bean on his own. Nice to chat though Bernie - always a subtle joy.
bernie		Thanks, David.   Always a pleasure.
bernie		By the way. Don't     know what you think, Mr Vice President, but I've been hinting    to the old man that someone's got to have the balls to take some    sort of emergency measures around here - or we're all in the crap house. What     do you think?
david		'Emergency measures, in your book means sack people right?
bernie		Not necessarily. That's where this ...  comes in. No, I've had a better idea than sacking people. You'll hear soon enough.
63		INT.   GRIERSON GALLERY.   STOREROOM - DAY.
annie		True love can be very hard.
david		Seems to be a problem with the door. Where's the picture gone?
bean		Ahm.....
david		What?    What?
david		Oh Jesus. Oh God.     Oh Jesus God.   Oh Mary Mother of Jesus. Oh Jesus of Nazareth.
bean		oh dear.
david		What happened?!!!
bean		Ahm.... .
david		Don't bother  Oh my god.....
david		Brilliant.   Brilliant. Problem solved!  BEAN is delighted.  Apart from the tiny drawback that the first person who opens the cupboard will say -"Look, someone's totally destroyed Whistler's Mother- let's kill them".  BEAN is less delighted.  No - the most important thing is tbat no-one sees it. Ever again!  He locks the cupboard with his plastic card key-  That's the first thing. Then ... that's the first thing.... Next ... next is the next thing which is... obviously... ritual suicide. Look, let's get out of here. Try to act natural.  The let themselves out and go into the corridor- BEAN acting his version of `natural' - very liquid.  CUT TO:
grierson		Ah, David.   Showing Dr. Bean our good lady?
bean		Actually I'm not a...
david		That's right - Whistler's Mother. Looking at his mother - not his father - not interested in his father, Couldn't give a flying doughnut for his sisters or brothers - just his mother. Yes.
grierson		Well, good - think I may go and look at her myself...
david		No!
grierson		Er ... pray tell me why?
elmer		Because they've just cut her into tiny pieces, sir.     That's why.
elmer		I better continue my rounds, sir..
david		The thing is, sir, I've just been giving the painting a very thorough inspection, with the help of Dr Bean here - and we feel the time's come for Whistler's Mum to have her first face-lift.
grierson		Time taken its toll on the old girl, eh?
david		Exactly.   She's in a surprisingly terrible state.    Isn't she, Bean?
bean		Oh yes.
david		Whistler was a great painter, but he wasn't a great chooser of paints ....
grierson		Thank you David.   However, flattery will get you nowhere.    Truth
david		... you have to sack me.     I understand, sir.    I'll go quietly.     In fact I'll go right now.
grierson		No. no, no, hold on ... We cant sustain our loses - so I've decided.. to sell Whistler's Mother.
grierson		Brilliant, huh? I already have a prospective       buyer - the current Governor of California, no less, who is flies      in tomorrow to inspect her and clinch the deal. Spread the       news. I think decisive leadership has done the trick, don't      you?
david		Yes, sir.   Yes, sir.   Congratulations. Marvellous thing.     Bravo.
david		Bean.   Do you drink?
david		Neither do I.
david		It's just a matter of acceptance, isn't it ... lose your job - lose you wife ... C'est la vie. You ever been married, Bean?
david		I guess not.
david		He's English, okay?    You wanna make something of it?
david		... To hell with the figures. I'm not a damn accountant. I'm an artist. You know, me and Ali met in art school? I cut quite a figure then. Far cry from the man you see before you now. Then, I smoked Gitanes before I went to bed, to help me sort out the problems of the world. Now, I take a spoonful of laxative before I go to bed to help me sort out the problem with my bowels.
david		Truth is, I disappointed her. I turned out to have no spine. Spineless. A kind of medical miracle. Mr Flippy-Floppy. I just don't seem to be able to fight - cant stick up for myself. Too nice. I mean, I should never have let you come stay and I should be handing you over to the police right now. Shall I tell you something, Beanie ...
david		Do you want to know what the reality of the situation is?
david		So, you've totally and utterly destroyed my life. Do you understand? You've put me in a position where it would have been better if I'd never been born.
david		0 my God. Tell it vas a dream.
bean		Morning.
david		It wasn't a dream, was it. I have to go in to work and tell them Whistler's Mother now looks like Danny De Vito.
david		What?
grierson		I think you're wrong, David. She looks as fine as she's ever looked. Worth every cent of the 10 million dollar-s.
david		Ahm....
grierson		Bravo. Let's put on a good show tomorrow, shall we?       Don't want anything to go wrong.
david		Quite right, sir.
david		Wait a minute.
bean		Ssshhhh.
jennifer		Bye, Dad.
david		Ah ... Jennifer, I need you to watch Kevin.    Jen?
jennifer		Be serious, Dad.    It's Saturday.
david		Jen, you have to help me here! I've got to go in to work, and with your mom away ... I really need you.
stingo		 You.
jennifer		Don't worry, Dad.    I'll be home. Monday, after school.
kevin		Hey, En, nice bike'- but remember: any kids you have are gonna look just like its handsome driver.
david		 Jennifer! This is not - repeat, not! how we do things in this family. I've told you never to get on one of those death traps! Please - talk to me. I promise to be reasonable.
jennifer		Great, Dad. You promised you'd get rid of him!  And as for: "how we do things in this family. We don't have a family till you get Mom back.
jennifer		Come on Sting!
kevin		Sting?!   Sounds like something you put on a rash.
david		Don't just stand there, Bean - do something.
david		To BEAN )    Right! Right! You get inside and look after Kevin!  Right! Get in the car!     Both of you. Jesus!
annie		So, Kevin.    How's it going?
kevin		Badly.    You wanna adopt me?
annie		Big day today, huh? 78
david		Uh ... yes ...
bernie		Great day. At last we can start getting out of debt and concentrating on the future.
david		Yes, look, I wanted to talk to you about this.      I'm sure we haven't been doing as badly as all that.
david		Annie ... would you look after Kevin? And Kevin - you look after Bean.
kevin		My Dad told me all about you.
annie		Did he now?
kevin		He says you've got a babe count of ten out of ten, and a brain cell count of about two and a half.
annie		Yeah, I'll go with that. I'm kinda, like, dumb, intellectually.  But I'm great in bed.
kevin		Catch you later, babe. Come on, Beanie - there must be a computer here somewhere. I hate paintings. They don't do anything.
grierson		Well, congratulations.    Isn't that great, David?
david		Certainly is.
bernie		We'll be able to start this afternoon. I'11 pipe the guide to every video screen in the gallery. Now, that'll impress the Governor.
grierson		Well, bravo! What with you and Whistler's Ma - I think I've got a winning team.
kevin		This is way cool, Beanie.
bernie		Jesus! Hurry up you guys. Am I the only person round here who actually gets things done.
david		You arrange those flowers yourself?
elmer		Sure did.
david		They're pretty.   Learn it in the army?
elmer		No - but when you've torn out a man's throat with your bare hands, you learn to appreciate the beautiful things in life.
grierson		What a pleasure, Governor Reynolds. I'd like you to meet some of our staff here. .
bernie		And that's where you introduce me to the Governor.
grierson		Right.    Got it.
annie		Good day, Governor Reynolds. I'm Annie ...
bernie		Curtsy.
annie		Curtsy? Are you kidding? This is 1990s America.      Women don't curtsy, they run the damn country!
grierson		Alex, please!
annie		That's Annie, sir.
grierson		This is Elmer, our longest serving...
bernie		Hey. Let's junk the medals, Elmer. This is not a Veterans' reunion. We wanna make the Governor feel at home. Not remind him of piles of dead people wearing uniforms.
david		David Leary. I'd like to echo my colleagues welcome to you and thank you for your patronage ...
bernie		Okay, that'll do. The Governor's here in half an hour.       We have to be totally ready then. No excuses. Period!
grierson		Thank you Bernie. Well done. Now, If you'll excuse - I have a little smartening up to do myself.
kevin		I'm just gonna go see if Annie needs me for anything.      Truth is, she smells kinda nice. okay? .
bernie		How goes it, Bean?    Ready for the Governor?
bernie		We need you downstairs in ten minutes and not a second more. Period. Oh, And put this on.  BERNIE throws BEAN a name badge with 'Dr. Bean' on it. BEAN nods. BERNIE exits. BEAN goes back to the code. He types in the first thing that comes into his head:  B-E-R-N-I-E  That damned message again: `ACCESS DENIED'.         Then, as though something is dawning on him, he punches in:  P-E-R-I-0-D  Up comes a message: "CODE ACCEPTED". Close on BEAN's face as light from the computer plays on it- He reads it carefully and with interest. We cant quite read his expression - but what he sees is a surprise and a puzzle. Long meaningful pause as his eyes scan the screen.  CUT TO:
bernie		David?   Lift off!
grierson		what a pleasure, Governor. Welcome.
reynolds		Hi, Grierson, forgive the war paint.       Going on To my regiment/s reunion after.
grierson		Not at all, Governor.    Very striking.
reynolds		Interesting suit.
grierson		 Why thank you sir.
reynolds		off the peg?
grierson		 Yes it is ... may I introduce you To Bern ...
reynolds		 Go park the old jalopy, will ya, son.
bernie		Bean - go park the Governor's car, will you.
cut to:		INT.   THE GRIERSON GALLERY.   RECEPTION AREA - DAY
annie		Good day, Governor. I'm Annie.      You know, you're a lot taller than you were half an hour ago.
reynolds		Well, that's great to hear at my age, Annie.      Thank you very much.
annie		Governor Reynolds, does your wife, like, have to curtsy?      Or does she 0 have a decent job?
reynolds		Er ... Mrs. Reynolds is doing just fine.      Just fine.
reynolds		Nice set of medals there Elmer.      Which beach they drop you on? Utah? Omaha?
elmer		Couldn't tell you sir. I was so drugged up with the killing I didn't know where I was.
reynolds		Well, congratulations soldier. CUT TO:
grierson		Ah, one of my favourites. It expresses a universal agony that the established Church so rarely acknowledges, don't you think?
89		REYNOLDS Jesus ... no one's got feet like for crying out loud. Have you got feet like that? Dammed if I have. Let's move it, shall we?
bernie		Everything okay, David?
david		Yes. Ahm.      I was just wondering where my English house guest had got to.
bernie		He's just parking the Governor's car.
david		Great - keep him out of trouble.
reynolds		Can we go and see Mrs. Whistler now?      My eyes are making my feet sore, as my wife would say.
david		Sure, Governor.   Please.     This way.
david		Ladies and gentlemen - most of you have seen Whistler's Mother before, can I ask you just to step back. Thank you.
david		I'd like the Governor to have, as it were, a private audience with his new friend.
reynolds		Well, hello Ma'am! Yes - she certainly looks a million dollars to me - or should I say ten million dollars!
grierson		Bravo - what do you say to a final glass of, though I say it
david		Governor, I don't believe you've met Dr Bean, our expert from England.
bean		Ah, hello, sorry, I ... Ahm... sorry ...
reynolds		You were going to sell the State of California a poster - for ten million dollars! Who the hell do you think you are, Shorty!?
grierson		Look, Governor - just wait - it's may not be as bad as it looks ....
david		Nice try, kiddo.
annie		David.   There's a call for you.    It's your wife.
david		Great. Classic timing. Why don't you ask her just to leave a date for the divorce? I'll check my diary later.
annie		She's calling from the hospital ...
annie		She's on line three!
annie		Such... great buns.
reynolds		I've known soldiers who've had their heads blown off who were more intelligent than you two. Not only have you failed to protect your most valuable possession from theft - but you didn't even know it'd been stolen! I'd sooner buy heroin from the guy who sells drugs outside my grandson's school than anything from you guys.
grierson		I am sorry you feel that way.
reynolds		And I'm sorry you look that way, short-ass.     That suit stinks and you obviously dye your hair.
bernie		Certainly, sir.
brutus		Come on man!     Move it!
elmer		Hey, Cop, wanna ride?       Jeese, where do they get you guys?
bernie		There is one other tiny problem, sir. CUT TO:
david		She was wearing a helmet. It could have been worse.
kevin		But is she gonna be okay?
david		Damn! She's a good kid. Sometimes good people get a break once in a while. 
elmer		It's okay!    I'll tail 'em!
brutus		You got it.
david		Just stay away from me!   D'you hear?  He takes KEVIN's hand and storms away round a corner. BEAN is taken aback not knowing what to do or where to go. He is really feeling sorrow now. He's shaken. All part of his slow coming to feel things properly.  CUT TO:
reynolds		Don't even think of saying one word to me, or I'11 find a way of fitting all three of those cars right up your ass.
alison		They're not calling it a coma. The doctor says she's ... just kind of taking time out.  It's a busy night. The doctor will be back in a while.
david		Excuse me.
doctor 1		I'll be back in a minute.
david		Okay, great.
alison		At least you didn't bring Mr Bean with you.
david		Ah, well .... CUT TO:
nurse		Doctor Jacobson?
doctor jacobson		Yes?
nurse		We need you urgently in C Theatre.
doctor jacobson		Damn.     I was just going to Number 4 ....
nurse		It is urgent, sir.
doctor jacobson		Okay.....
elmer		No, no, I didn't realise the situation.       I won't disturb them now.
elmer		Buck?
nurse 2		Doctor ... Bean?
bean		Actually ...  ... Yes, yes, yes...
nurse 2		Just in time, sir.     Allow me.
alison		When the Police told me what had happened I ... it's stupid I know ... but I remembered all that stuff people do to get through to coma victims ...
kevin		Like playing them recordings of their dish washers and coffee grinders?
alison		That right.   So I went home and picked it up.
david		Good thinking.  You still call it 'home'.
assistant		Good evening Doctor.. What we have here is a bullet wound in the lower thorax it seems to have ruptured the lung, and there's severe inner bleeding along the abdomen.
nurse 2		He's coming round.
assistant		Give him a T 70, straight away.
assistant		Shall I do the cut, sir?
assistant		I'm sorry. it's only MY first week.
nurse		I'm afraid we'll now have to wait for the X-rays, Doctor, or we'll never find the bullet. Come on everyone sort out the support systems.
assistant		Here we go, doctor.  the bullet is here - so we'll probably have to extend the cut to here. Think we all better be prepared for a long one here. This is tricky.
assistant		There certainly is.    Dr Bean here just saved his life.
alison		0 my god.
david		Sorry, honey - he just happened to tag along.
alison		Nothing ever really changes, does it, David?
david		Excuse me.
doctor 2		Yes, your doctor will be with you in a minute.    We have a lot to deal with here, sir.
alison		Excuse me, doctor.
doctor		Really Ma'am, we'll get to you in due course.
alison		Okay.
david		Say that again, son.
doctor		I beg your pardon?
david		I said say that again, son - because the next time you do, I'll make sure you're in there with my daughter, but in a slightly less healthy state and she's in a coma with a broken arm right now.
doctor		I'm er ... sorry if you've been waiting a long time.
david		We have. In fact, we've been sitting here since the start of the Millennium and I'd really like some action from you before the end of the world.
david		So,    why not haul    your    ...  nice little ass into this room and    explain to me    and    my wife why our precious daughter is going to    be absolutely    fine    because of all the fantastic intelligence and    attention you    are    going to give her case.
doctor		Okay, sir.        Certainly.    Good.
david		Yes, and Bean, for God's sake, keep out of the goddamn way, will you?
alison		Smiling         Well, well.
103		INT.     HOSPITAL.    JENNIFER'S ROOM - NIGHT
alison		Let's get a coffee.
david		Yes.     Great.     Kevin, I'11 send Bean in to keep you company.
kevin		Help me with this. It's a scientific experiment. We're gonna wake up Sleeping Beauty here with the tortured screams of Vampire bats.
alison		Disgusting.
david		Everything's gonna be fine.
alison		 About Charles...
david		shhh...
alison		It was nothing. We're not ... He just makes me laugh.      When was the last time we laughed? Any of us?
david		I know... I know. I've been an arsehole of spectacular proportions. Olympic standard.
kevin		Dad...
kevin		These guys just hijacked the T.V. Me and Bean were trying to ...
hospital porter		Sorry, folks. We're short on these and there's another kid down the hall that could use ...
david		Wait a minute .... 
alison		Please. It's okay.      Really.  Wow - who put the fire in you, my' man?
105		INT.   HOSPITAL.     CORRIDOR - NIGHT
alison		Maybe I ought to think about getting another job.
david		Good idea - with a boss who's a really ugly son-of-a-bitch.
david		I thought you said.... CUT TO:
david		Now, Bean ... just put down that thing ... nice and slow ... you hear me? Come on now...
jennifer		Dad!     Get off!?   What's happening here?!   Mom?
kevin		I don't care what anyone says. Mr. Bean brought my sister back from the dead. He did it under laboratory conditions. My eyes do not lie!
david		Here, let me do that.
alison		No, I'm fine.
bean		Ahm - excuse me ...  You know..
alison		Oh yes.     Sorry.    Though I think these are ready.
alison		There.     Is that how you like them?
alison		He's not too bad.       I can live with him.
david		I'm afraid you don't know the half of it. Sit down.       I have a tale to tell. And not a happy one.
grierson		Colleagues - what can I say? Incidents such as occurred yesterday teach a man important lessons. On reflection, I realise it would have been a sin to sell Whistler's Mother to such an impertinent philistine as Governor Reynolds. And therefore, I blame myself for having ever let things get to such a pass that we felt we had realise our the staff - twelve got today, I've Schimmel as to sell her. I suddenly problem here hasn't been it's been the leadership flabby, lazy- And so decided to appoint Bernie my new Vice- President.
grierson		He's a man with a plan who will haul us into profitability and the 21st century.
bernie		Thank you, sir.       Although, I'm afraid I don't quite see how we can ...
grierson		Good point Bernie - precisely the kind of perceptive interjection I'd expect from my new V.P. How can we, you ask, survive without Whistler's Mother - our single greatest asset? Well, the truth is - we can't. So what am I saying? Will we find her again? Never - this robber was clearly the work of a criminal of great genius.
grierson		Ladies and gentlemen. The REAL Whistler's Mother!
grierson		The best security in the world is no match for a master criminal. But no master criminal is a match for me. Thank you all. Now if you would please return to your posts, my new Vice President, Bernard Shimmel would like you all to see the computer program we had prepared for yesterday until we were so rudely interrupted by events.
grierson		David, David, David ...
david		I'm fired?    Because I let a... copy of a painting the get stolen?
grierson		Of course not. I'm sacking you for neglectful conduct, relating to the heavy financial loss this gallery has incurred, through your recent lack of professional judgement. A loss I trust Bernie will be able to reverse.
grierson		I will of course invite you an excellent reference - or Bernie will.
grierson		Of course, Dr. Bean, we'll arrange alternative accommodation for you. I believe Bernie has a spare room with en suite bathroom.
grierson		How are you making out there?
bernie		All fixed up, sir.   Stick around, Davey boy.   This is going to be quite a show.
bernie		 Here you can see our new interactive gallery guide.    Every picture in the gallery will have its own story to tell.
bernie		Perhaps you'd like to bring up Whistler's Mother.
bernie		 Ah, Our visiting professor has chosen the splendid Millais painting - "His Mistress"
bernie		Just click on the corner.
bernie		Right let me take over now...
cut to:		INT.   THE MAIN GALLERY - DAY
bernie		You've had long enough on it now.       A joke's a joke.   That's it. Period!
bernie		You can stop right there, Mr! Those are confidential ...
bean		Daaa!   Daaa!
cut to:		INT.   GRIERSON GALLERY.     ALL ROOMS.
cut to:		INT.   GRIERSON'S OFFICE ~ DAY
bernie		Excuse me, If I may just ...
grierson		 Shut up, Schimmel. Exactly how long have you been siphoning gallery money into your own private accounts?
david		Look at all this - publicity expenditure ... catering ... all completely fictional ... back as far as June 93 ...
bernie		I don't think you really understand what you're looking at ...
grierson		Horse shit.   You're dead, grease-ball.   Period.
bernie		But wait a minute - you can't let some moron from England turn you against me. I deny any knowledge of this. He probably typed in all this stuff himself. Don't you find it all a bit suspicious that it's here at his fingertips.  There's your criminal, gentlemen. There's the Limey that set me up!
grierson		Dr. Bean.    Have you got anything to say to that?
bean		Yes-  It's exceedingly rude to point.
grierson		 I don't know what your methods are these days, Officer, but I'd
grierson		I owe you a very serious apology, young man. It wouldn't surprise me if you wanted to leave us after this. I sincerely hope that you do not.
david		VERY ACCOMMODATING Well, no, sir, I'm sure ...
grierson		Of course.
david		And a car.
grierson		Mmmmm...
david		Maybe two cars.
grierson		A car sounds sensible.
david		And I need Fridays off, to spend more time with my family. Speaking of which - if you'll excuse me .... I've got a lot of time to make up.
alison		well, it's been... unusual. But thank you.
jennifer		Good-bye Mr Bean.        Sorry I screamed that first time.
david		Come on          hurry or we'll be late.
david		... Oh, and Grierson phoned Lord Walton at the National. Said good things about you. So expect a great reception back home, huh?
kevin		Good-bye Beanie. It's Bean .... surreal.          And don't forget you're welcome to come back anytime ...
kevin		... in the distant future.
david		Bye, Bean. Thanks for everything. And take care, huh?      I know it's insane, but I'm going to miss you.
cleaner		They've moved, guy.
cut to:		INT.   THE NATIONAL GALLERY ~ DAY
lord walton		Is he gone?
miss hutchinson		Yes, my lord.
lord walton		Tell the others.
miss hutchinson		Very well, my lord.
miss hutchinson		He's gone.
****Dialogues from script :Beasts_of_No_Nation.txt****

may 8th, 2014		SHOOTING SCRIPT
agu		Which ones having talent?
dike		That one...not that one.
village constable		Agu, what am I supposed to be doing with this?
agu		Watching TV, Massah.
villager constable		It is not having a screen.
agu		It is imagination TV.
village constable		It is garbage. Go, get out of here.
2nd lieutenant		It doesn't have any channels.
agu		It is having 12, and one more, that is the imagination channel.
2nd lieutenant		And how much for this treasure?
agu		3000. And you are giving us some of your foods.
2nd lieutenant		Take these.
big brother		What are you two girls plotting?
big brother		Come, I have job for you.
old woman		Enh!   You are not greeting me?
old woman		These young person not behaving well anymore, just acting like animal. But it is okay.  Trouble go follow you.
agu		No trouble go follow me. I am a good boy.
big brother		Trouble go touch you old woman if you stay standing in the middle of the road.
old woman		I am knowing you, boy. I am knowing your family. And trouble go follow all of you. Thieves! Throw an old woman like me from her land! Devil go bless your family!
father		What is wrong with you? You know you cannot waste batteries on such nonsense!
agu		I...
father		I?   I. I. I. what?
agu		I got them from the Nigerians.
father		We do not need handouts. We are not beggars on the street. We are not refugees. I work for this family and I provide for this family.
agu		But I earned-
father		You will return them.
agu		Yes, Father.
father		Good dancing.  Go on, help Mother.
father		It's okay Agu, do not be worrying. We are in a safe place, we are in THE-
big brother		When I was your age, if I was doing the same things you are doing, Father would beat me. You are lucky this war is happening.
agu		I am not lucky. It is just because everyone is liking me.
big brother		When she is seeing these, her knees must be wobbling with hunger.
big brother		And you will see, I will be like this with all the girls in town.
big brother		We are seeing that witch woman on the road today. She is saying we are thieves. Why is she saying that?
father		She is not right in her head. God has taken away her ration. The land we are letting the refugees use has been in our family since before your Grandfather, we gave her a place in the camp but she refused.
agu		So she's crazy?
father		Enh?   What is that?
agu		Enh?
father		What is this?
father		Why so fearful? Doesn't the light go out all the time? It will come back.
mother		Go on Agu, go to bed.
agu		No beating?
father		Get up! Get up, now!    We are going to church!
big brother		But it is not Sunday.
pastor		Isn't God protecting the Israelites when they are having to leave their own home?
agu		Where is Dike?
pastor		We cannot allow ourselves to face voluntary self-destruction. May God bless us all!
man #4		What about our homes, property we leave behind? Our crops? Who will protect them?
paramount chief		Linguist.
linguist		 The Section Chiefs and their deputies should be assembling after this to discuss protection of this village. We all must do our part.
linguist		The refugees are our problem, they are our guests.
agu		Father, I am not seeing Dike.
father		It is my responsibility...
agu		Father, where is Dike?
father		 Dike and his family are gone!     They fled.
father		He cannot be moved, he is an old man. And I won't force-
mother		Sometimes I am thinking that you are having no sense at all.
father		What is so irrational about staying with your sister in the Capital, I will be coming to meet you once I am knowing everything is safe here. I cannot just be abandoning my responsibilities.
mother		But then you are abandoning us.
father		Just remove that thought from you head. What are we just supposed to be doing, then? Enh? Just running into the bush and living like rats?
mother		No, you are not understanding anything. 
father		I am not asking you. I am telling you woman.
driver		Come back tomorrow.
father		I am the Section Chief and this is my family, there must be space.
driver		No space.
father		Just one woman and these small small children.
driver		And the little boy?
agu		 I am not a "little" boy.
father		Him, too.
driver		And where are you thinking this woman and child will be fitting.
father		I am thinking this women and children are more valuable than all this luggage you have piled in back.
father		With the boy-
mother		We will find another way.
father		 With the boy.
driver		No bargaining. Or are you wanting your woman to be walking through the bush to the capital?
mother		I would rather be walking then leaving my child. 
father		 Please. How much to fit the boy?
driver		No boy.
mother		No. No we cannot!
father		 Do not scare them. You are strong. You will be okay. Take care of them and I will take care of our boys. Now get in, there is no choice.
mother		Remember to be praying praying to God all the time and not to be worrying, we will be seeing each other soon.
agu		Mother!
father		You are with the men now, Agu. Be strong, wave goodbye.
agu		Mama!
big brother		Let's go home.
agu		 Will they be killing us?
man		 Shut up!
man #2		 If they are finding us...
man #3		 They will drive our body into the bush, just leaving us for animal to be eating.
father		 Do not be listening to them, Agu. No matter what happens, this is how God tests us, we must be strong.
man #2		 I am rather to be outside than to just be dying like animal inside!
father		We stay here, outside we die.
man #2		We must go!
father		You are killing us all!
man #3		If you are running fast, then the soldier won't be seeing you.
man		Shut up, quiet, they will be hearing us!
father		Stay down!
sergeant		Which faction are you fighting for?
father		We are not fighters. We are from this town. We were protecting the stores.
sergeant		You are Native Defense Forces?
father		No. I am a Section Chief. We were tasked to stop looters.
old woman		I do not know them.
father		This woman, everyone knows she is crazy. Just talk to her, Massah, you will see she is not right in the head.
old woman		They are not from here, they must be rebels.
sergeant		We, the armed forces of the National Reformation Council, find you to be spies and sentence you to immediate and summary execution.  Waste them.
father		 Run!
voice		Make way!
commandant		Why is this thing here on the ground?  Who is catching this thing?
two-i-c		Commandant, sah!
commandant		What are we to be doing with this thing?
two-i-c		This thing? It is just a boy.
commandant		A boy.
ndf sbu		Harmless no, sah!
commandant		Does a boy not have eyes to see?
ndf sbu		Two eyes, sah!
commandant		A boy has hands to strangle!
two-i-c		Sah? We need to be move-
commandant		I said wait.  You are from Alpha Town?
agu		My father is telling me to run. Run far far so the Army Soldier is not catching me and killing me. And then, and then I am just hiding in the bush and running running...
commandant		And where is this your father?
agu		 Agu.
commandant		Say it like you are proud of it.
agu		Agu.
commandant		Agu, enh? Well, that is what I will be calling you then.
two-i-c		Formation!
commandant		You should be saying yes.
agu		Yes.
commandant		Say yes, sah.
agu		Yes, sah.
commandant		Move on!
rambo		Botu botu botu.
rambo		Water.
two-i-c		 ...to protect life and property. If you are wanting to stay, then stay, but you must be initiated.
commandant		Two-I-C.
two-i-c		Yes, suh.
commandant		This baby boy is your responsibility now. Train him.
two-i-c		Yes, sah.  C/O Hope!
hope		Yes, suh.
two-i-c		This baby boy is your responsibility now. Train him.
chicken legs		Enh? What are you doing?
agu		I carried ammunition and water all day.
chicken legs		You think you are a soldier now?
ndf cook		Stealing from a dog?
agu		Which one of you is the dog?
preacher		The man who is driving the enemy to madness...
griot		He is treating death like lover.
hope		He is eating people.
commandant		I am not eating people, Hope-
commandant		Native Defense Forces!
ndf soldiers		Strong, proud, and intelligent!
two-i-c		How does the Commandant look?!
ndf soldiers		Alright!
two-i-c		...weakened by the PLF's outside pressure. The National Reformation Council took advantage of this instability and militarily seized power to restore UPC dominance. We NDF refuse to recognize this illegitimate government.
commandant		You are knowing what that is meaning. Mosquitoes, sickness, muddy squalor. Suffering if we are caught with our "soldiers" hanging out.
two-i-c		...the Junta will tell the international community that we NDF are the reason this war continues.
commandant		You, Hope, and you, Rambo, you are not from the same tribe as him.  But you are brothers before your enemy.
hope		No, sah.
commandant		War?
rambo		Yes, Sah!
two-i-c		The PLF could join the NRC, it would legitimize their cause, make us the sole enemy, and give them freedom to roam formerly Government controlled areas of the nation in policing actions. If this were...
commandant		We have defended ourselves against criminal rapings and killings of our own people, first by the PLF, and now by the NRC government.
two-i-c		You see, the colonists have never left Africa. Our very own politicians will steal our resources and give them away for pennies in exchange for private payoffs...but...
commandant		They are licking their wounds. They are feeling our sting. We, along with our other brothers fighting further south under Dada Goodblood, we command and control what the NRC needs.
two-i-c		The Grass People in the South East control the lumber and gold, the Clay and Charcoal people in the South West, diamonds and rare metals, and the Coastal people, petroleum and fisheries. This is the reason the NRC are trying so hard to be calling themselves a "reformation council."
commandant		Reformation of what? Money. Old men and money.
two-i-c		They have spit on the constitution. They have spit on your rights. They have tried to spit on your future.
commandant		War has spoiled their minds, Gentlemen. So they could have "their turn to eat.
commandant		War is a disease. It sickens and infects.
two-i-c		The richness of our nation is for the young.
commandant		When there is an infection in your foot. A deadly deathly sickness in your limb that's going to kill you slow slow, what do you do?
chief priest		 You must die before you are reborn.
two-i-c		Tomorrow we mobilize for major action, uniting all of our brother warriors under Supreme Commander Dada Goodblood, and with God's blessing, end this plague, end this war, end our oppression!
commandant		Young men! Gentlemen! We will not wait to inherit it, we will not wait for them to just give it to us, we will take it, we will seize it from their rotting and decaying old hands.
chief priest		Eat the enemy if you bring him down. Become braver, his heart becomes your medicine.
commandant		The spirits have blessed you and cleansed you. To the enemy, you are invincible. But there are rules you must follow to keep the spirits happy, to remain pure.
chief priest		No sex with women. No touching women. No talking to women. Stay pure. No looting. No touching dead bodies. No...
commandant		Agu, you are a soldier now. The only way is forward. Do not be leaving any nice thing for the NRC or the PLF to be using if they are coming to this place.
chicken legs		Advancing in the rainy season?
griot		Everyone will be on zero-zero-one now.
agu		What is zero-zero-one?
preacher		It is meaning you, me, we all be hungry.
griot		It means no breakfast, no lunch, only dinner. If you are wanting to eat when it is not dinner, then you are having to keep your dinner from before to be eating the next day.
hope		Or if we raiding or finding farm, then we can be eating what we find. Cow, chicken, baby... woman.
commandant		It is even having a root like a cassava, but if you eat it, it will kill you with its poison.
agu		Yes, sah.
commandant		 You will destroy anything that threatens us. As I would anything that threatens you, understand?
hope		Don't worry, killing is easy.
chicken legs		Besides, you already eating a man.
agu		What do you mean?
chicken legs		What do you think was that ball of garri, the one you are eating in initiation?
agu		They are calling you Strika?
griot		 Morale booster.
hope		 It is good juju, making you stronger and braver.
agu		 And eating pencil.
hope		Shhh. They are coming.
army corporal		Please do not shoot us!
preacher		Agu, where is the fucking ammunition?
army corporal		Please, Sah. I am an engineering student from the university in the capital. I am supposed to be fixing bridges, not be a soldier.
hope		Sah!
commandant		Open it.
griot		What is it?
commandant		No, no, this won't do.
aide		A pistol?
two-i-c		Why not the cutlass?
cso		Does he have the strength?
commandant		Rambo, seize him, hold his ass to the ground.
commandant		Always keep it with you.
two-i-c		If you are losing it, then I will be losing you.
commandant		You are my Special Guards now.  Both of you.
cso		Suh.
commandant		Agu and Strika are now my Special Guards.
cso		Yes, suh. Special Guards.
commandant		Gentlemen! Cover! Cover!
two-i-c		Cover!
agu		Botu, botu, botu.
commandant		...ooh, and they are having so many foods to be eating...
two-i-c		Commandant, sir!
commandant		Who is this?
two-i-c		Refugees, sir. They say the PLF and the NRC took their village three days ago. They killed most, but let these ones go.
commandant		Well, let us be giving their village back, huh?
hope		 See what the PLF does to you?
commandant		 Two-I-C?
commandant		Report.
two-i-c		We are facing heavy fire, suh.
commandant		Can you take the bridge?
two-i-c		I don't know, suh.
commandant		Explain.
two-i-c		It's very difficult, suh. Our     men are fighting bravely but-
commandant		But nothing. Take the bridge, that is your task.
two-i-c		We need support, suh. The men's spirts are low, suh.
commandant		Agu, Strika, come here. Look at this.
commandant		These bullets?
agu		To always be leaving it off.
commandant		Off. How will you be firing quickly if it is in safety? Enh? Listen.
agu		What?
commandant		 Sit.
agu		Thank you, sah.
commandant		You see what happens when the men listen to me?
agu		Yes, sah.
commandant		You are wanting to know how to be leading?
agu		No, sah. I am happying to be following you, sah.
commandant		That is good, Agu, because there is no learning to be leading. Some men is born to leading, other is born to following, and other is only waiting to be dying.
agu		I am following you, sah.
commandant		No, Agu. You are different. You are reminding me of me when I was a little boy, and this means you are borning to be leader. But even the best leader Agu, must first be learning to be good follower. Sometimes I even have to be following the Supreme Commander, if when I am not agreeing.
agu		Yes, sah. I am a good follower, sah.
commandant		You are seeing this place. Supreme Commander is saying this is important. So it is important for me then.
agu		I am thinking she is in the Capital, sah.
commandant		After Goodblood greets us, we all will be going to the Capital, that is a certainty.
agu		 Yes, sah.
commandant		Then be saying it.
agu		I can be keeping this secret, sah.
commandant		In this family where I am being father, we cannot have the other children getting jealous, Agu!
commandant		This is the nature of the place we are going. The homeland of the collaborators and traitors. Our people's blood has flowed for year. Now must their blood flow, too. Let us pray to the spirits and God.
voices whisper		Devil be blessing you. Devil bless what you do.
preacher		This way...
agu		What is wrong with them?
agu		What is wrong with them? Why are they crying?
preacher		Commandant won't let them go with him into battle.
agu		Where is this battle?
agu		Mother?
woman		God, please take my daughter safely to heaven. Please Lord I am begging to You.
agu		Devil is not blessing me. Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
commandant		See, now it is your time to eat.
cso		This is for you, sah.
two-i-c		From the Supreme Commander?   What does it say?
commandant		He is summoning us.
cso		Where do I instruct the drivers to take us?
commandant		To Taro -- The Town of Abundant Resources.
two-i-c		Did he state the reason?
commandant		No.
preacher		Pardon me, sah.
commandant		What is happening to this one?
two-i-c		A piece of his own RPG is hitting his temple.
preacher		What do we do with them?
commandant		Leave one living. Tell him to run north, to the next village, and to the next village after that, tell him to tell everyone that soon we come. This is just the beginning.
commandant		Home, Agu.
preacher		Friend!
preacher		We are NDF. 
commandant		I am.
agu		These people do not run.
deputy		Commandant. Welcome.
commandant		Thank you Deputy.
deputy		We apologize for the inconvenience. We do not want to alarm the population by the arrival of such a large force.
commandant		When can they enter? I have-
deputy		I do not know Goodblood's plan for you. I assure you, you will know A- S-A-P.
commandant		You will bring something to drink for us. Water.
deputy		Certainly.
deputy		Supreme Commander is so very upset to keep you waiting. Please, follow me.
commandant		What is this? This is just another room. Where is our water?
agu		Give us water! Give us water, now!
deputy		Commandant.
commandant		Where are you putting us to be sleeping?
deputy		I hope this room, with the air conditioning, will be sufficient. Thank you, Gentlemen.
deputy		Commandant, I trust you rested well. I would like you to know we also offered rations and water to the rest of your Battalion this morning.
two-i-c		Thank you, Deputy.
goodblood		At ease Gentlemen. At ease...
commandant		Supreme Commander, sah.
goodblood		I must apologize for yesterday, so much busy-ness these days, it's worn me down.
commandant		I'm sorry you were feeling weak, sah.
goodblood		I see your family has grown.
commandant		I am hungry. Two-I-C, bring me a plate.
goodblood		Two-I-C, you stay. Deputy?
commandant		What is this, Chief? Why are you making me wait?
goodblood		It is your duty.
commandant		Something has changed, what is it?
goodblood		Protecting our people remains the priority. As you know, the world is becoming aware of this war, now. No one will escape judgment when it is over.
commandant		Chief, to protect our people, we have the force and the momentum, why stop, why wait?
goodblood		It used to be survival of the strongest, the strong dominating by brute force, but now it is survival of the wittiest and the decisions we make have far deeper consequences.
commandant		Then what is your plan for my battalion? Are you not making me General?
goodblood		I am not. I am giving your battalion to Two-I-C, Commandant. That is why I brought you here.
two-i-c		I promise to perform my duties to the fullest pot-
commandant		Two-I-C get out.
goodblood		I want the ceremony of change over tomorrow, so that Two-I-C... I mean newly, Commandant in absence, may take the battalion back out for security details. As you know, and much thanks to you, we have the NRC on their heels. With support from the UN and ECOMOD, the battle now is for public image. Two-I-C and other commanders like him will provide that for us until the junta crumbles.
commandant		You are taking my battalion?
goodblood		Commandant, your battalion is my battalion. One of hundreds across the nation. I will remind you that you are a soldier, you are subject to orders, you listen and obey orders.
commandant		And for my services, Chief? I built this battalion. I am their father.
goodblood		That honor remains yours.
commandant		And payment? What share of the resources will I have, for this honor?
goodblood		If you are wanting to be a man of industry and resources, then find a job with a mining company. I am offering you something else entirely, an education.
commandant		I have not Chief. I am not a politician, I am a soldier.
tripod		Move on!
tripod		Sah?!
commandant		Assemble the C/Os, take the troops and bivouac outside of town. I am taking Two-I-C with some of the boys to celebrate.
tripod		Yes, suh!
two-i-c		Where are we going?
commandant		You will see. You will like it.
madame		Enh, so you come?
commandant		Ma. Bring something that will satisfy my soldiers and my soldier!
madame		Get up you, can't you see we are having guest?
young girl		The beer is warm.
commandant		How is it warm?
young girl		No ice.
commandant		No ice!?
young girl		No light.
commandant		Bring the drink. We will be drinking it even if it is warm.
two-i-c		Commandant. Permission to be dismissed. I want to be going to be checking on my men-
commandant		Negative. You'll be staying here so we can celebrate you. In fact, Mama, why don't you bring a special one for my Two-I-C, who will soon be the Co-mman-dan-tttt.  Who's your Commandant?
tripod		You, sir!
commandant		But you have one special for Two-I- C?
madame		No problem. No problem.
commandant		Hey Mama, this one's fresh papaya.
madame		If it is woman you are wanting, leave this one. I am having plenty womens in the back if you are having plenty moneys to be giving me, for a special girl.
commandant		Don't you be worrying about money, ma. Bring me a good girl, you know my specifications.
agu		Auntie! Auntie, bring us some chips!
madame		This small thing borned yesterday trying to order things around, enh!
commandant		What is happening? Huh? What happened?
two-i-c		 You did this.
commandant		What happened to my man? Wh- What happened here?
girl		I was just playing with his gun, and it just went off. I don't know what happened. I don't know- I'm sorry.
two-i-c		 You did this. You did this.
commandant		 You did this! You did this!
girl		She told me...
madame		She told you? It was an accident!
commandant		Go!
two-i-c		You are just a boy.
commandant		Agu? Is that you.
tripod		Goodblood is asking for you.
commandant		Sometimes Agu, sometimes I am feeling sorry for you.
agu		Two-I-C is dead.
commandant		You are my new Two-I-C.
commandant		This was not God's work. This was man's. The Supreme Commander was our friend. Now he is our enemy. But we are not fearing change... for we are strong!
men		Strong and proud!
commandant		That is why we should be taking our own territory and filling our own pockets. Move out.
preacher		Tripod, Hope!
agu		 Strika? Strika! We are having to go or they will be leaving us.
agu		Enh... Strika, a song. Music. Like my mother sings...
preacher		Ammo. Find me some fucking bullets to be shooting, Agu.
agu		He is dead.
preacher		Who is dead?
agu		Him.
agu		Commandant, suh. We are out of bullets.
commandant		Kai! This fog, Agu. It is our friend.
agu		They are dead.
commandant		Who are dead?
commandant		What is all this noise?
preacher		We are leaving, sah.
commandant		Who and who is leaving?
preacher		No, Sah. We are going.
commandant		You are the only one stupid standing in front of me.
preacher		I am going, sah! I have no bullets, I cannot be shooting our enemy with no bullets. There is no gold, no money, nothing to be buying more bullets. So I am going.
commandant		I see. I see you are a big man now, Two-I-C. And where will you be going? You will surrender to the other NDF? No. They will eat you. And to the ECOMOD? That would be wiser, but, then what? Jail? War crimes? If they let you go, you think you will ever have it as good as you have it right now in this mud? You think that you will be able to just do what you want in "peace"?
father friday		Turn to God. Confession and Forgiveness and Resurrection, these are the things you need to know to bring the life back to your life...
preacher		They are not even paying us an allowance. How are we supposed to be living on this?
agu		Don't go Preacher.
agu		Yes, I am having Bible, but I am using to be holding my drawing down on my desk so the fan is not throwing them everywhere.
preacher		They are saying they are needing soldier, fighting is what I am knowing and that is what I should be doing. You are sure you do not want to fight?
amy		Go on, try, try to talk about it...
amy		Tell me what you are feeling, or, try to tell me what you are thinking.
agu		I am thinking about my future.
amy		Good, yes, good. And how do you see your future?
agu		Botu botu botu.
amy		Do you want to talk about some of your experiences?
agu		I am seeing more terrible thing than ten thousand men and I am doing more terrible thing than twenty thousand men.
****Dialogues from script :Beasts_of_the_Southern_Wild.txt****

wink		Get your pants on, man!
wink		Feed up time! Feed up!
hushpuppy		Feed up time! Feed up!
wink		Share with the dogs.
wink		Ain't that ugly over there?
woman's voice		Meat.
miss bathsheba		MEAT. MEAT. MEAT.
hushpuppy		Daddy? Feed-up time. Feed-up?
hushpuppy		DADDY!?
hushpuppy		Daddy? Daddy?
miss bathsheba		You need a ride, boo?
hushpuppy		My Daddy's coming to pick me up.
miss bathsheba		How about food or something, you hungry? 12
marietta's voice		Hi my sweet baby.
hushpuppy		Hi momma.
marietta's voice		Hushpuppy what you doing there? You being good like I taught you?
hushpuppy		Yes, mamma.
marietta's voice		You're good, you make me happy / you're good, you make me happy.
hushpuppy		That's pretty Mamma.
marietta's voice		You're pretty Hushpuppy.
hushpuppy		Daddy! Daddy, Daddy!
wink		Leave me alone, Man.
hushpuppy		You wearing a bracelet too?
wink		Go in your house, you wouldn't understand.
hushpuppy		I wanna come in your house. 15
wink		GO AHEAD!
wink		BOSS LADY?
hushpuppy		I'm tearing off!
wink		You ain't tearing off nothin', I'll bust your ass! 17
hushpuppy		I'm tearing off just like my Momma.
wink		Come on!
hushpuppy		I hope you do die! And after you die, I come to your grave and eat birthday cake all by myself!
hushpuppy		Momma!? Momma!? MOMMA!? I think I broke something.
hushpuppy		Miss Bathsheba! Miss Bathsheba! My Daddy fell down!
miss bathsheba		It's gonna be OK baby.
boy		The storm's coming! The storm's coming!
little jo		Look at these assholes running around all over the damn place. C'est la vie assholes!
wink		I know y'all with me. Y'all doin' the storm.
little jo		Lady Jo's ain't never closed honey.
wink		That's what I'm talking about. Walrus my big man, you staying?
walrus		Wrong number buddy. I'm outta here as soon as I finish my beer.
wink		You ain't goin nowhere.
walrus		This ain't no sneeze comin' out the gulf. I'm gone brother.
wink		I'll see you tomorrow Walrus. Lookit there, Winston's with me.
walrus		Hey! It's Hushpuppy.
everybody		Hushpuppy! Hushpuppy's here.
wink		Hushpuppy? Where you been?
hushpuppy		What happened to y-
wink		Shut-up!
wink		This side is still Wink's house. No toys, and no girl stuff over here.
hushpuppy		Mamma!? MAMMA!?
wink		Yo Winston?
wink		Some day when I'm gone, you gonna be the last man in the bathtub. You have to learn how to feed your house.
hushpuppy		I gotcha!
wink		Yea! Hold him down! Now, you hold it down like this, and whack him good with your fist.
hushpuppy		OW!
wink		You OK? That's all a part of it. 28
hushpuppy		Daddy?
hushpuppy		Mamma? Is that you?
walrus		Holy bowlegged Sarah!
wink		Hey partner! Hey Walrus!
walrus		 I musta passed out.
wink		Little Jo!
little jo		Wink!?
walrus		Sorry Peter T.
wink		Peter T, my man! I knew you wasn't gonna leave me man!
walrus		 That is one classic dude right there.
wink		Peter T, you are a titan! Glad you stayed man! RHHAAAA! 31
walrus		If I had wings, I know I could have flown in that bad boy. But I would have probably bounced off a tree, or...
wink		Hushpuppy! Did I ever tell you the story of your conception?
wink		...and Hushpuppy popped into the universe maybe four minutes later.
hushpuppy		Miss Bathsheba!?
wink		Come on lets go! Time to eat! Come on children, feed up time!
jean battiste		To the last of the food!
walrus		To the last of the water!
little jo		You ain't drinkin' no water.
miss bathsheba		Yea, tastes like more, alright!
walrus		When the water goes down, I'm gonna French kiss the dirt!
miss bathsheba		Water's not goin' down man.
wink		Nah, that's my beautiful place under there.
miss bathsheba		Man you know they got plenty of salt coming into that water, everything beautiful is gone. Trees are gonna dies first, then the animals, then the fish.
wink		I got it under control. 36
jean battiste		Come on Hushpuppy, come over here lemme show you how.
wink		NO! Hushpuppy--
miss bathsheba		You heard your Daddy. Beast it. 37
everyone		 BEAST IT! BEAST IT! BEAST IT!
wink		Yea! You see what kinda family we got?! We got feeling!
hushpuppy		We got enough animals to eat until the water goes down.
miss bathsheba		 Come here, like this.
wink		 Come on fishes, where y'at?
hushpuppy		 You wanna leave the Bathtub, Walrus?
walrus		 Nah.
wink		I heard that.
jean battiste		Shit!
wink		Boss, Daddy's gotta take care of something.
hushpuppy		Everything gonna go right back?
wink		Hell yeah, we gonna win.
walrus		 I think they be gone. I-I really can't say where.
miss bathsheba		Walrus, don't make me slap your ass! They go to the levee!?
wink		 Peter T, don't hold onto me, hold onto the boat. You gonna be fine.
wink		Just don't pull `til I say.
wink		You can do it. I have complete faith in you.
jean battiste		Lock and load.
wink		Peter T hand me the-
jean battiste		Oh, Peter T.
miss bathsheba		Here's how we do with wild animals.
wink		AHH! Get off me woman! I'm trying to save the Bathtub
miss bathsheba		Get in the Boat! I'm hauling you're ass back home, little boy.
jean battiste		Wink!?
wink		Jean Battiste, get the trip line!
miss bathsheba		Hushpuppy!?
jean battiste		She got it! Pull! Pull!
wink		NOW BOSS!
miss bathsheba		No! Hushpuppy!
hushpuppy		Mamma!?
pilot		This is a mandatory evacuation area, you can no longer live here. Everyone in this area, has to leave. I repeat....
wink		GUUAAAHH!
hushpuppy		Raaaaaaaaaaaaahhhh!
wink		You wanna throw things? Come on! I can do that too. You want to play that game? Let's throw stuff!
hushpuppy		Man. You think I don't know.
wink		Hey. No crying. Don't you cry man. Don't you cry!
hushpuppy		You gonna be gone?
wink		What? No!
hushpuppy		You gonna leave me alone?
wink		I ain't gon' leave nothing.
hushpuppy		Cause if you be gone, I be gone too.
wink		Hushpuppy, that is not how it works.
hushpuppy		I will. Sometimes in the bed I start shaking and can't stop. I got what you got.
wink		No man. That's just a side effect of being a stupid little girl. 51
hushpuppy		I ain't gonna be dead?
wink		No. You? No! You gonna live a hundred years more. You know what, show me the guns.
hushpuppy		Guns! Guns! Guns! Guns!.....
wink		 Guns man, give to me! Guns! Guns!
hushpuppy		I'm the man.
wink		Who the man!?
hushpuppy		I'm the man!
wink		TELL ME LOUDER WHO THE MAN!!!!
hushpuppy		I'm THE MAN!!!!!!! 52
wink		YOU THE MAN, RIGHT?!
hushpuppy		Yea?
wink		You ain't the one who's sick. 53
wink		We ain't going nowhere!
little jo		You gonna have to shoot me cause I'm not going.
evacuator 2		Ma'am we're not gonna shoot you.
little jo		I ain't never left here and I won't never will.
evacuator 2		Relax, relax ma'am.
little jo		YOU SON OF A BITCH!
wink		Get your hands off of her! I'm gonna kill you! Let her go! 55
wink		Don't eat that.
wink		Whoa whoa whoa, not in front of my kid. Stay, Hushpuppy. 56
wink		I don't need nothing from you! You keep your hands off her! I don't need nothing from y'all! Let me go!
hushpuppy		Daddy!
babysitter		Hushpuppy needs a hug.
hushpuppy		I don't want your hug!
babysitter		Hushpuppy, that's not how nice girls act. Say "I'm sorry ma'am." Hey! Say it. Say it or you're going to corner time.
orderly		 There there, sir.
hushpuppy		They're coming for you.
wink		Boss. Let's go.
hushpuppy		Where we goin'? 59
jean battiste		Go home! Everybody get up! Don't you want to go home? Lets go! These people don't care about you!
little jo		You live in this hell hole!
wink		 Make sure you put her somewhere good ok?
hushpuppy		 NO! I ain't running! No! 60
wink		No!
hushpuppy		Why you trying to get rid of me?
wink		I ain't trying to get rid of you.
hushpuppy		You is.
wink		No. Hushpuppy... I can't take care of you no more.
hushpuppy		Yes you can.
wink		Daddy's dying!
hushpuppy		Don't be sayin' about dying.
wink		Everybody's Daddy dies.
hushpuppy		Not my Daddy.
wink		Yes, your Daddy!
hushpuppy		Come on! Come on!
wink		Walrus, get me home.
hushpuppy		Come on! Keep going!
hushpuppy		I'm going by my Mamma.
sergeant major		That's a good place to go. 64
hushpuppy		Which way are we going?
sergeant major		Don't matter baby, this boat'll take you exactly where you need to be. It's just that type of boat.
hushpuppy		I wanna be cohesive.
sergeant major		Oh you will be, I got no doubt in my mind.
miss frankie		Holy crap you have toddlers!
sergeant major		Good afternoon, Miss Frankie.
miss frankie		Well butter my butt and call me a biscuit! How you, Sergeant Major? You need some grits?
sergeant major		Yes ma'am. 66
miss frankie		Holy Sugar, they are so precious! Y'all just as cute as a tub of puppies!
cook		You need something baby?
cook		Lemme tell you somethin', when you're a child people tell you that everything's gonna be all hunky- dory and all that bullshit, but I'm here to tell you that it's not. So get that out your head right now.
cook		The gator's magic.
hushpuppy		You can take care of me. Me and Daddy.
cook		I don't know nothing bout your Daddy, I can't take care of nobody but myself.
hushpuppy		This is my favorite thing.
cook		I know.
wink		Naw, that waits.
hushpuppy		I need to go home.
cook		 No.
hushpuppy		You're my friend, kind of. 73
wink		 Real good. 74
hushpuppy		No crying.
everyone		A ship at my side starts her motors and sails for the gulf. I watch her until she disappears. "There!  75
****Dialogues from script :Beauty_and_the_Beast.txt****

august 10, 2016		 1   EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - NIGHT                                1  A MAGNIFICENT CASTLE. Resplendent, bespeaking great wealth and power. The grounds and stonework immaculate.  NARRATOR  ... and his parties with the most beautiful people.
diva		Oh how divine Glamour, music and magic combine See the maidens so anxious to shine Look for a sign that enhances Chances She'll be his special one
diva		What a display! What a breathtaking thrilling array  Every prince, every dog has his day Let us sing with passion, gusto Fit to bust - oh Not a care in the world
belle		Little town, it's a quiet village Every day like the one before Little town full of little people Waking up to say...
villagers		Bonjour.   Bonjour. Bonjour.   Bonjour.
vagrant		Bonjour.
belle		There goes the baker with his tray like always The same old bread and rolls to sell
jean		Good morning, Belle
belle		Good morning, Monsieur Jean.   Have you lost something again?
jean		I believe I have. Problem is, I can't remember what. Well, I'm sure it will come to me.
belle		To return this book to Pere Robert. It's about two lovers in fair Verona.
nasty headmaster		Dazed and distracted, can't you tell?
little girls		No denying she's a funny girl That Belle
clothilde		I need six eggs
belle		There must be more than this provincial life
pere robert		Well! If it isn't the only bookworm in town. So where did you run off to this week?
belle		Two cities in Northern Italy.    I didn't want to come back.
pere robert		I'm afraid not. But you may reread any of the old ones that you'd like.
belle		Thank you, Pere Robert. Your library almost makes our small corner of the world feel big.
pere robert		Bon voyage.
gaston		Look at her, LeFou. My future wife. Belle is the most beautiful girl in the village. That makes her the best.
lefou		But she's so well-read, and you're so...  Athletically inclined.
gaston		I know. Belle can be as argumentative as she is beautiful.
lefou		Exactly, who needs her, when you've got us!
gaston		Yes, but ever since the war I've been missing something. And she's the only girl I've met who gives me that sense of...
gaston		 Right from the moment when I met her, saw her I said she's gorgeous and I fell Here in town there's only she Who is beautiful as me So I'm making plans to woo and marry Belle
village lasses		Look there he goes, isn't he dreamy Monsieur Gaston, oh he's so cute Be still my heart I'm hardly breathing He's such a tall, dark, strong and handsome brute
all		Look there she goes a girl who's Strange but special A most peculiar mademoiselle It's a pity and a sin She doesn't quite fit in!
village lasses		But she really is a funny girl
village men		A beauty but a funny girl
all		She really is a funny girl that Belle!
gaston		Good morning, Belle!   Wonderful book you have there.
belle		You've read it?
gaston		Well, not that one. But, you know. Books.  For your dinner table. Shall I join you this evening?
gaston		No, LeFou. It's the ones who play hard to get that are always the sweetest prey.
belle		Papa, do you think I'm odd?
maurice		My daughter? Odd?     Where did you get an idea like that?
belle		I don't know. People talk.
maurice		What would you like me to bring you from the market?
belle		A rose like the one in the painting.
maurice		You ask for that every year.
belle		And every year, you bring it.
maurice		Then I shall bring you another. You have my word. Come on, Philippe!
washer girl		What are you doing?
belle		The laundry.
nasty headmaster		What on earth are you doing?
clothilde		We have to do something.
gaston		You are the wildest, most beautiful thing I've ever seen. No one deserves you, but at least I know our children will be beautiful.
lefou		A certain damsel is in distress.
gaston		Oh well. It's hero time.  I'm not done with you yet.
belle		All I wanted was to teach a child to read.
gaston		The only children you should concern yourself with are... your own.
belle		I'm not ready to have children.
gaston		Maybe you haven't met the right man.
belle		It's a small village, Gaston.     I've met them all.
gaston		Maybe you should take another look. Some of us have changed.
belle		I might be a farm girl, but I'm not simple. I'm sorry, but I will never marry you, Gaston.
belle		Can you imagine? Me, the wife of that boorish, brainless...
belle		I want adventure in the great wide somewhere I want it more than I can tell And for once it might be grand To have someone understand I want so much more than They've got planned
maurice		The woods are lovely, aren't they Philippe...? I only wish I recognized them. Do you know where we are? Because I don't.
maurice		Go, Philippe! Hurry!
maurice		Hello?   Anyone home?
chip		Mom said I wasn't supposed to move because it might be scary. Sorry.
maurice		Thank you. Really, I cannot thank you enough for your hospitality...  ... And kindness.
belle		Philippe?
lumire		Look, Cogsworth. A beautiful girl.
cogsworth		I can see it's a girl.    I lost my hands, not my eyes.
lumire		But what if she is the one?   The one who will break the spell?
belle		Who said that? Who's there?
belle		Papa!?   Is that you?
belle		Oh, your hands are ice.   We need to get you home.
maurice		Belle, you must leave here at once. This castle is alive! Now go, before he finds you!
belle		I've come for my father.
belle		Liar!
belle		I asked for the rose.   Punish me, not him!
maurice		No, he means forever. Apparently that's what happens around here when you pick a flower.
belle		A life sentence for a rose?
the beast		I received eternal damnation for one. I'm merely locking him away. Now... do you still wish to take your father's place?
belle		Come into the light.
the beast		CHOOSE!
maurice		Belle, I won't let you do this. I lost your mother. I won't lose you too. Now go!
belle		Alright, Papa. I will leave.  I need a minute alone with him.
the beast		When this door closes, it will not open again.
belle		I should have been with you.
maurice		Belle, listen to me. It's all right. Live your life. Forget me.
maurice		What?!
the beast		You took his place.
belle		He is my father.
belle		Don't hurt him!
maurice		Belle!   I'll come back!    I promise!
belle		My room?   But I thought --
belle		AHHH!
lumire		 Oh, you are very strong.    That's a great quality!
belle		What are you?
lumire		You must forgive first impressions, I hope you are not too startled.
cogsworth		Except the west wing!
belle		It's... beautiful.
lumire		Of course. Master wanted you to have the finest room in the castle.
lumire		I would risk anything to kiss you again, Plumette.
plumette		No, my love. I've been burned by you before. We must be strong.
lumire		How can I be strong when you make me so weak?
lumire		Do not be alarmed, mademoiselle. This is just your wardrobe. Meet Madame De Garderobe. A great singer.
lumire		Ah, stay with us, Madame!    We have someone for you to dress!
garderobe		Finally. A woman. Pretty eyes. Proud face. Perfect canvas. Yes! I will find you something worthy of a princess.
belle		But I'm not a princess.
garderobe		Nonsense! Now, let's see what I've got in my drawers.
garderobe		Froufrou, send my love to the maestro!
gaston		Picture it, LeFou -- a rustic cabin. My latest kill roasting on the fire. Adorable children running around us while my love rubs my tired feet. But what does Belle say? "I will never marry you, Gaston."
lefou		You know, there are other girls.
gaston		A great hunter doesn't waste his time on rabbits.
lefou		Gosh it disturbs me to see you Gaston looking so down in the dumps Every guy here'd love to be you Gaston Even when taking your lumps There's no man in town as admired as you You're everyone's fa-vor-ite guy Everyone's awed and inspired by you And it's not very hard to see why
lefou		Who's much more than the sum of his parts like Gaston?
gaston		 As a specimen, yes, I'm intimidating
gaston		I needed encouragement; thank you, LeFou
lefou		Well, there's no one as easy to bolster as you!
lefou		In a wrestling match nobody bites like Gaston!
lefou		Is that fair?
gaston		I don't care
villagers		No one hits like Gaston Matches wits like Gaston
lefou		In a spitting match nobody spits like Gaston
gaston		I'M ESPECIALLY GOOD AT EXPECTORATING!
villagers		Ten points for Gaston!
gaston		Who can make up these endless Refrains like Gaston?
lefou		And his name's `G-A-S-T... ' Uh, I believe there's another `T' in there, it just occurred to me that I'm illiterate and I've never actually had to spell it out loud before... Gaston!
gaston		Ah LeFou, you're the best. How is it that no girl has snatched you up yet?
lefou		I've been told I'm clingy, but I really don't get it...
maurice		Help! Somebody help me! We have to go... not a minute to lose...
tavern keeper		Whoa.   Slow down, Maurice.
maurice		He's got Belle... locked in a dungeon!
tavern keeper		Who's got her?
maurice		A beast... a horrible monstrous beast!
jean		Winter in June?
maurice		The beast is real! Do you understand?! Will no one help me?!
gaston		 I'll help you, Maurice!
lefou		You will?
gaston		 Everyone! Stop making fun of this man at once!
maurice		Thank you, Captain.   Thank you.
gaston		Don't thank me, Maurice.    Lead us to the beast.
lefou		 Ohhh.
chip		Mama, there's a girl in the castle!
chip		Is she pretty? Is she nice?     What kind of tea does she like?
cuisinir		Heads up, Mrs. Potts!
lumire		Be calm, let me do the talking.
the beast		YOU'RE MAKING HER DINNER!?
lumire		We thought you might appreciate the company.
cogsworth		Master, I can assure you that I had no part in this hopeless plan. Preparing a dinner, designing a gown for her, giving her a suite in the east wing --
the beast		YOU GAVE HER A BEDROOM!?
lumire		That is true. But if the girl is the one who can break the spell, maybe you can start by using dinner to charm her.  Good thinking, Cogsworth!
the beast		That's the most ridiculous idea I've ever heard! "Charm the prisoner."
lumire		You must try, master. With every passing day, we become less human.
the beast		She's the daughter of a common thief. What kind of person do you think that makes her?
the beast		You will join me for dinner!     That's not a request.
lumire		Yes. The poor thing is probably in there, scared to death.
belle		Just a minute.
lumire		You see, there she is.    Now, master, remember. Be gentle.
plumette		...charming...
lumire		And when she opens the door, give her a dashing debonair smile. Come come -- show me the smile.
the beast		Will you join me for dinner?
belle		You've taken me prisoner and now you want to have dinner with me? Are you insane?
plumette		He's losing it...
the beast		I told you to come down to dinner.
belle		And I told you no!
garderobe		WHAT!?    WHAT TIME IS IT!?
belle		I'd starve before I ever ate with you!
the beast		Well be my guest! Go ahead and starve!  If she doesn't eat with me, then she doesn't eat at all!
cogsworth		You can't talk to us like that! I forbid it! I... I...  Oh master, you've returned!  Cogsworth shrieks and spins -- only to realize he's been duped.  COGSWORTH Oh, very funny.  LUMIRE Eh, I got you there!
the beast		Show me the girl.
lumire		I know, darling -- Ow! I'm getting more metallic every day.
cogsworth		Oh, no! It's -- tick tock! -- happening again -- cuckoo! Pardon me.
chip		Mama, am I ever going to be a boy again?
belle		I told you to go away.
chip		Pleased to meet you!    Want to see me do a trick?
garderobe		Yes.    We all think so.
belle		I'm so worried about him.      He's never been on his own.
belle		But he said, "If she doesn't eat with me, she doesn't eat at all."
lumire		They're coming! Final checks, everyone, tout de suite!
cogsworth		No, you don't! If the master finds out you violated his orders and fed her, he will blame me.
lumire		Yes, I will make sure of it. But did you see her stand up to him? I am telling you, this girl is the one. They must fall in love if we are to be human again, and they can't fall in love if she stays in her room.  Eh, Chapeau, you missed a spot!
cogsworth		You know she will never love him.
lumire		A broken clock is right two times a day, mon ami, and this is not one of those times.
lumire		Of course, of course. But what is dinner without a little... music?
cogsworth		Music?!
lumire		Maestro Cadenza, are you ready?
cadenza		 It has been so long since I've performed! I can barely even remember how...
lumire		Maestro, your wife is upstairs, finding it harder and harder to stay awake. She's counting on you to help us break this curse.
cadenza		Then, I shall play through the dental pain!
cogsworth		 But Maestro. Play quietly. Please.
lumire		Ma chere, mademoiselle. It is with deepest pride and greatest pleasure that we welcome you tonight. And now, we invite you to relax.
lumire		Beef ragout, cheese souffle, Pie and pudding en flamb!
chandelier candlesticks		And it's all in perfect taste That you can bet!
lumire		Come on and lift your glass You've won your own free pass To be our guest  If you're stressed, it's fine dining we suggest.
all		Be our guest! Be our guest! Our command is your request! It's years since we had anybody Here and we're obsessed!
lumire		Pudding?!
the beast		WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE!?    WHAT DID YOU DO TO IT!?
belle		Nothing.
the beast		DO YOU REALIZE WHAT YOU COULD HAVE DONE!? YOU COULD HAVE DAMNED US ALL! GET OUT! GO!
belle		You have to help me... you have to stand...
maurice		No! I'm sure this is the way! Do you hear those wolves? That means we're getting very close to the castle.
gaston		Look, enough is enough.   We have to turn back.
maurice		Stop!   That's it!
lefou		 You really want to marry into this family?
maurice		So that means the castle is definitely that way!
gaston		I'm done playing this game of yours. Where is Belle?
maurice		The beast took her!
gaston		There are no such things as beasts, or talking teacups, or... magic! But there are wolves, frostbite, and starvation.
gaston		Because I want to marry your daughter! Now let's go home.
maurice		Belle is not at home!   She's with the --
gaston		IF YOU SAY BEAST ONE MORE TIME, I WILL FEED YOU TO THE WOLVES!
lefou		GASTON! STOP! Breathe. Think happy thoughts. Go back to the war. Blood, explosions, countless widows...
gaston		Please, forgive me, old bean. That's no way to talk to my future father-in-law, now is it?
maurice		Future father-in-law...?   You will never marry my daughter.
gaston		If Maurice won't give me his blessing, then he is in my way. Once the wolves are finished with him, Belle will have no one to take care of her but me.
lefou		For the sake of exhausting all of our options, do we maybe want to consider a less gruesome alternative?
the beast		ROOOOAARRRR! Ow! That hurts!
belle		If you held still, it wouldn't hurt as much.
lumire		We are eternally grateful.
belle		Why do you care so much about him?
belle		But he has cursed you somehow.  Why? You did nothing.
all		Days in the sun Will return - we must believe As lovers do That days in the sun Will come shining through
belle		What happens when the last petal falls?
lumire		The master remains a beast forever.     And the rest of us become...
belle		I want to help you. There must be some way to lift the curse.
agathe		Drink.
belle		It's wonderful.
the beast		Oh. Yes, I suppose it is... Well, if you like it so much, then it's yours.
belle		Have you really read every one of these books?
belle		There's something sweet and almost kind But he was mean and he was coarse and unrefined
belle		New and a bit alarming Who'd have ever thought that this could be?
plumette		Well, who'd have thought?
cogsworth		Well, who'd have known?
lumire		Well, who indeed?
all		We'll wait and see! A few days more 
cogsworth		You know, perhaps there's something there that wasn't there before.
chip		What, mama?
chip		What is it, what's there?
belle		I never thanked you for saving my life.
the beast		Well I never thanked you... for not leaving me to be eaten by wolves.
belle		They know how to have a good time.
the beast		Yes. But when I enter the room, laughter dies.
belle		Me, too. The villagers say that I'm a "funny girl," but I don't think they mean it as a compliment.
the beast		I'm sorry.     Your village sounds terrible.
belle		Almost as lonely as your castle.
the beast		Another little "gift" from the Enchantress...
belle		How amazing.
the beast		It was her cruelest trick of all. The outside world has no place for a creature like me. But it can for you.
the beast		Where did you take us?
belle		Paris.
the beast		Oh, I love Paris. What would you like to see first? Notre Dame? The Champs- Elyses? No? Too touristy?
belle		It's so much smaller than I imagined.
the beast		What happened to your mother?
belle		That's the only story Papa could never bring himself to tell. And I knew better than to ask...
the beast		Plague.
the beast		I am sorry I ever called your father a thief.
belle		Let's go home.
lefou		Wow, this is some storm. At least we're not tied to a tree in the middle of nowhere, right? You know it's not too late, we could just go get him...
gaston		Oh, Maurice! Thank heavens. I've spent the last five days trying to find you.
maurice		No! You tried to kill me!    You left me for the wolves!
gaston		Maurice, it's one thing to rave about your delusions. It's another to accuse me of attempted murder.
jean		Maurice, do you have any proof of what you're saying?
maurice		Ask Agathe! She rescued me!
gaston		Agathe? You'd hang your accusation on the testimony of a filthy hag?  No offense, Agathe.
maurice		Monsieur LeFou! He was there.     He saw it all.
gaston		You're right. Don't take my word for it.
gaston		Maurice, it pains me to say this, but you've become a danger to yourself and others. No wonder Belle ran away. You need help, sir. A place to heal your troubled mind.
the beast		I feel like a fool. She will never love me.
lumire		Do not be discouraged.
lumire		You care for her, don't you? Well then, woo her with beautiful music and romantic candlelight...
the beast		I haven't danced in years.   I'd almost forgotten the feeling.
the beast		 You must go to him.
belle		What did you say?
the beast		You must go to him. No time to waste.
belle		Thank you.
cogsworth		Well, master, I may have had my doubts, but everything is moving like clockwork. True love really does win the day!
the beast		I let her go.
cogsworth		You... WHAT!?
lumire		Master... how could you do that?
the beast		I had to.
lumire		Then why are we not human?
cogsworth		 Because she doesn't love him!    And now, it's too late.
the beast		I'll never shake away the pain I close my eyes but she's still there I let her steal into my melancholy heart It's more than I can bear
gaston		Have you ever seen the inside of a mad house, Maurice? You wouldn't last a week. Just give me your daughter's hand, and I'll set you free.
gaston		Take him away!
villagers		"Belle..." "Where did she come from?" "Is that Belle..." "Look at that dress..."
maurice		Belle?   I thought I'd lost you!
belle		Open this door! He's hurt!
belle		My father's not crazy!   Gaston... Tell him!
gaston		Belle, you know how loyal I am to your family, but your father has been making some unbelievable claims.
jean		It's true, Belle. He's been raving about a beast in a castle.
belle		I have just come from the castle and there is a beast!
gaston		We all admire your devotion to your father, but you'd say anything to free him. Your word is hardly proof.
belle		You want proof? SHOW ME THE BEAST!
gaston		This is sorcery!
belle		No, don't be afraid.    He is gentle and kind.
gaston		The monster has put her under a spell! If I didn't know better, I'd say she even cared for him.
belle		He's not a monster, Gaston. You are.  The beast would never hurt anyone.
gaston		I have heard of the effects of dark magic, but never seen it with my own eyes before! This is a threat to our very existence!
tom		We're not safe until he's dead
dick		He'll come stalking us at night
jean		Set to sacrifice our children To his monstrous appetite!
clothilde		He'll wreak havoc on our village If we let him wander free!
gaston		So it's time to take some action, boys It's time to follow me!
mob		Light your torch, mount your horse!
gaston		Screw your courage to the sticking place
mob		We're counting on Gaston to lead the way
lefou		There's a beast Running wild there's no question But I fear The wrong monster's released
mob		Sally forth, tally ho Grab your sword, grab your bow Praise the Lord and here we go!
gaston		Show me the castle!
lumire		At least he has finally learned to love.
cogsworth		A lot of good that does us if she doesn't love him in return.
chip		Did you hear that, mama?    Is it her!? Is she coming back?!
lumire		Could it be?
cogsworth		Well, there you go. So much for true love. Man the barricades, and hold fast!
castle staff		Hearts ablaze, banners high We go marching into battle -- Unafraid although the danger just increased
cadenza		Move aside!
mob		Raise the flag, sing the song Here we come, we're fifty strong And fifty Frenchmen can't be wrong Let's kill the beast!
cogsworth		Pardon me, master. I'm sorry to disturb you, but --
mob		Kill the beast!     Kill the beast!
lumire		I know what to do.
mob		Kill the beast!     Kill the beast!
mob		Kill the beast!     Kill the beast!
lefou		Are you not the least bit concerned that this castle might be haunted?
gaston		Don't lose your nerve, LeFou.
jean		This place seems familiar... like I've been here before...
cadenza		Bravissima!
gaston		Hello, beast. I am Gaston.    Belle sent me.
gaston		When we return to the village, you will marry me, and the beast's head will hang on our wall!
belle		NEVER.
the beast		Belle?
gaston		 No. Don't let me go. Please. Don't hurt me, beast. I'll do anything.
the beast		I AM NOT A BEAST.
belle		No!   It's too far!
the beast		You came back.
belle		Of course I came back.   I'll never leave you again.
the beast		I'm afraid it's my turn to leave.
belle		We're together now.   It's going to be fine. You'll see.
the beast		At least I got to see you one last time.
belle		No... please, no...
lumire		It's all right, Cogsworth.
cogsworth		I... can't... TICK... Lumire, my friend... TOCK... it was an honor to serve with you.
lumire		The honor was mine.
belle		 Please, don't leave me.    Come back.
jean		Darling!?
jean		Beatrice!     Chip!   I remember!   I do!
cogsworth		Oh.   DEAR!
plumette		Lumire, look!
garderobe		Tale as old as time Tune as old as song Bittersweet and strange Finding you can change Learning you were wrong
****Dialogues from script :Beavis_and_Butt-head_Do_America.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Beginners.txt****

andy		Okay. Is it on? 
oliver		Yeah yeah.
andy		This is for our friend Hal Fields. Hal. We love you.
oliver		You're coming to live with me now. Arthur looks at him.
oliver		This is my car. Arthur hops in.
oliver		This is the dining room where people come and eat sometimes. The dog listens intently. Oliver moves on, the dog follows.
oliver		This is the living room.
oliver		That's the bathroom. The dog looks.
oliver		He was a museum director - she fixed up old houses.
oliver		They had a child, and they stayed married for 44 years...
hal		I'm gay. Same camera angle, Hal still looking into camera we jump cut to him wearing a robe.
hal		I'm gay. Same angle, we continue to jump cut through Hal talking to camera, each cut in different clothes, and with each cut his line has a different inflection.  HAL  ...I want to do something about it.
andy		Since I came out to my father, he never speaks to me. That's why I've been always attracted to older men. Hal and friends laugh warmly at Andy. We cut to live action "portraits" of a priest, a therapist, the Primetimers, his movie-night club, and the large L.A. Pride group, all looking into camera.  OLIVER V.O. He found an out gay priest to guide him spiritually. He saw a therapist for the first time. He joined the Primetimers. Movie night. Los Angeles Pride, and then...
oliver		Look, its lonely out here, so you'd better learn how to talk with me. Arthur's face looks up at him filled with a dog's love and no words.
arthur subtitle		While I understand up to 150 words - I don't talk. Oliver leans down, pushing his head into Arthur's.
oliver		I know. I know.
oliver		Calm. Calm, calm breaths. Hal coughs.
hal		Oliver! Please help me with all these ropes. Oliver rushes and helps him.
oliver		Pop, Pop, stop -- you're gonna hurt yourself. A NURSE quickly enters and helps hold down his arms.
nurse		Mr. Fields, we're going to have to secure your arms again.
hal		You two married?
oliver		No, Pop.
hal		Why not? She's great. The nurse smiles, embarrassed, and continues with her job.
oliver		She's a great nurse in the hospital, we don't really know her, you're very high on drugs.
hal		You always have some very good reason, haven't you?
oliver		No, Pop, I just don't want to be like you and mom.  Thank you...
georgia		Oliver! He turns and Georgia shoots him with her finger, Oliver falls to the ground.
georgia		Olly, you can do better. He gets up and she shoots him again - He falls more dramatically, knocking his head on the floor.
georgia		That's good. His mom looks at him affectionately.
oliver		Want me to read this? I found it in your books.
hal		Yeah, alright. Give me the flashlight. Oliver opens it, they look at a few pages together, photos of serene gardens.
oliver		Nice.
hal		Oh, that's nice.
oliver		Oh, Andy brought those for you.
hal		Oh, yeah? Hal continues to direct the light across the room, we follow the circle of light as it moves a cross a wall landing on a painting.
hal		Oh, who did that painting?
oliver		Well, I don't know. Its just a painting on the wall. Hal continues exploring, Oliver's enjoying his father's curiosity, he lands on some photos displayed on the table.
hal		A--, and these?
oliver		They're just photos, Pop.
hal		But how do they relate to the exhibit?
oliver		They're just personal photos. They're not art. Hal slowly moves the flashlight up the wall, across the ceiling to a strange assortment of fire detectors, sprinklers, sensors, all laid out against the acoustic tile ceiling. Hal points up. Oliver looks for a beat, then...
oliver		Uh, well that's the water sprinkler thing.
hal		Well, its beautiful.
oliver		What is?
hal		Putting the Japanese gardens there. It's just beautiful.
andy		Hal.
hal		Andy! Andy gets on the bed opposite Oliver. He gives Hal a big kiss on the lips. Hal glows. Oliver backs away slowly. Andy picks up Hal's hand, turns it palm up and presses his face into it.
andy		I brought something for you. Oliver watches from outside the room as Andy excitedly pulls a portable tape player out of his bag.
andy		We made a recording for you.
hal		Oh, God. Andy pushes play, on the recording we hear Andy's voice:
oliver		Jesus, Liz. Another band that wants portraits.
liz		Well, at least it pays the rent.
oliver		You do something decent once, and that's all people ever want. JUMP CUT through the different portraits developing. It's not what Oliver want's to do.
elliott		Hi Liz. Oliver continues to draw, as Shauna and Elliott try to get his attention.
elliott		Oliver?
oliver		Yeah?
elliott		The pen is not your friend. The paper is not your friend. The party is your friend. We're your friends. Your friends are your friends.
shauna		I got the skills... he's got the moves...
elliott		I got the moves... you've got the skills...
oliver		Arthur, you haven't been invited to this party. You're gonna stay and look after the house. Oliver tentatively shuts the door, takes three steps, Arthur begins to howl. Oliver tries to ignore it, but stops again. He looks back at the house and the howling.
elliott		You remember when Oliver was funny? And he could actually, like, talk, in complete sentences?
shauna		Funny? Funny? I don't think so Fun maybe, but not funny unless, like, serious is funny. Then he's' fucking hilarious. Elliot and Oliver laugh.
shauna		But, lovable. You are very lovable.
elliott		Yeah, very lovable.
female partier		So cute, does he do tricks?
oliver		His name's Arthur - he doesn't do tricks. In the background are a couple dressed as JULIAN and ETHEL ROSENBERG, we see them observe Oliver and Arthur.
partier		No? Arthur, SIT! Arthur promptly sits down. Oliver's totally surprised.
partier		He's so cute. Shake! Arthur sticks out his paw. Oliver doesn't like seeing Arthur blindly perform.
partier		Oh my god, he's so cute, I want him.
oliver		 Does it make you feel powerful to order my dog around? Maybe give you a sense of power?
partier		Oh, you're being a therapist! Freud!
oliver		Thanks, yeah. Very good. Oliver picks up Arthur and escapes the kitchen. The Rosenberg's are still watching.
oliver		Yeah.
oliver		 I'm sorry. Our time is up, uh... for this week. Thank you for coming in. The witch moves on. Oliver sits with Arthur in his lap, alone, lost in all this joviality. We see that the woman dressed as Julius Rosenberg is watching him. Just as Oliver is about to get up, she plops herself down onto the couch, ready for her session.
oliver		 Well, I guess we should start with your mother. The woman writes on her notepad and shows it to Oliver: "Never had one."
oliver		Well then your father. She mimes shooting herself in the head and dying.
oliver		I don't understand. You can't talk? Is it a mental problem? Do you need analysis? She writes on her pad: "I have laryngitis"
oliver		That's a physical problem. She smiles at him, looks at him a little too long, Oliver is more and more pulled in by her playfulness - she writes: "Why are you at a party if you're sad?" CU on Oliver, surprised and impressed by her observation.
oliver		I was doing such a good job of hiding it. How could you tell? Ethel holds up her notebook. She has drawn TWO EYES. Oliver's taken by her.
oliver		Clearly, I'm gonna need a drink. You? She smiles and nods.
oliver		You, stay here, yeah? Oliver moves to--
int kitchen		Elliot and Shauna are deeply engaged in conversation with someone dressed as a pickle and someone dressed as much less colorful chicken.
elliott		No, its just not a natural color for a chicken.
shauna		No.
elliott		(motioning to Shauna's
shauna		You just have no real color.
elliott		Hey, hey.
elliott		Two drinks.
shauna		What does that me--, one, two.
elliott		Well that's two, two people.
shauna		Two people. A girl and a guy?
elliott		Hopefully.
shauna		Yeah, wow, making moves. Oliver leaves Arthur in Elliott's arms.
oliver		Watch him OK? Oliver begins to leave his drinks. We see his POV of the woman dressed as Julius Rosenberg waiting on the couch. Oliver slips into one of his memories...
oliver		Hello?
hal		Oliver?
oliver		Yeah.
hal		I'm not sorry I woke you! I went to Akbar tonight.
oliver		You did?
hal		"House music."
oliver		Would you like to dance? She happily nods yes. They walk to the dance floor, we think Oliver's going to be shy, but he breaks into a kinetic, angular, dance. She's surprised with us - she laughs, they have a good time.
oliver		Hello... Shes mouths a silent "hi"...
oliver		Can I give you my number? She pulls out her pad and pen and hands them to him.
oliver		Thanks. As he writes, Oliver spies Arthur sitting in the corner of the bathroom, staring directly at him.
arthur subtitle		Tell her the darkness is about to drown us unless something drastic happens right now. Oliver looks to her.
oliver		I feel bad dragging Arthur to the party. I should get home. It was really nice meeting you. She writes on her pad: "Au Revoir"
oliver		Hello? ON THE OTHER END: Silence. A little breathing, the party in background.
oliver		Okay. You point - I'll drive. Oliver starts the engine. She points forward and they head off. At the light she points left, he follows. Down the street she points right...
oliver		This way?
oliver		Nice place. They sit on her bed. She steals his pipe, put's it in her mouth -- writes on her pad and shows it to him.
anna		 Oh merd.
oliver		Oh, you spoke.
oliver		My father died two months ago, almost three. She looks at him with sincere empathy and surprise. Oliver's opened up, an now everything gushes out, he barely knows what he's saying.
oliver		Oliver. She writes again: "Go to NY. Audition. Back Thursday."
oliver		How long are you here when you get back? Anna holds up one finger.
oliver		A year? Anna shakes her head and smiles. She gestures smaller.
oliver		A month? Right. And then?... She pantomimes a camera rolling, and herself acting.
oliver		You're filming here. Acting.
oliver		And after?... She makes a casual tossing motion with her hand.
oliver		Just somewhere else. Where? Anna only shrugs. She writes more, and tosses the notepad on his lap. Oliver reads: "Can I see you again?" He's very happy.
oliver		Yes.
oliver		Hello house,  hello Oliver.
oliver		Jesus, Pop, you get so much mail. Oliver slows and stares at his father's magazine - The Advocate. Two attractive, shirtless men on the cover under the title: America's Sweethearts. Oliver's lost in memory...
hal		But...?
doctor long		The bronchoscopy revealed a mass about the size of a quarter. It is located in your lower right lung. CU on Hal taking this in.
hal		Uh-huh. I see.
doctor long		It appears to have spread... to the large hilar lymph nodes in your chest and liver.
doctor long		Do you have any questions?
hal		No. Thank you. As the doctor leaves. Oliver takes his father's hand.
oliver		I'm sorry.
hal		Well, let's not rush out and tell everyone.
oliver		Andy?
hal		No need to get him up a tree. Hal takes a moment and composes himself. In his eyes we can see that he knows there is an end to his life.
oliver		The Brazilian ballet star is already known not only as a skilled partner, but also as a gifted and versatile dancer, who adeptly fields roles ranging... Camera tracks out of the room, leaving the two men alone...
hal		But is he eating?
oliver		Yeah, yeah, he's eating.
hal		Oh God, I worry so much about-- As Andy enters, his hands mysteriously cupped together.
hal		Oh here we are... Andy shows Hal his cupped hands.
andy		A slug.
hal		Oh, Andy, you can't bring that kind of thing in here.
andy		Oh I can look. Andy flashes open his hands, revealing nothing. He snorts and laughs.
hal		Fuck you. Oliver watches with amusement. NURSE SOPHIA enters...
hal		It's time for inspection... The nurse works her way between Andy and Hal to take his pulse.
nurse		Hello, Mr. Fields.
hal		Hello. Andy feels interrupted, strangely hurt by the nurse. The nurse begins to take Hal's vital signs.
andy		I'm Andy. Hal's boyfriend
nurse		I'm Sophia. Andy gets more and more upset.
andy		You know, I have the right to be here as much as anyone else. Hal lovingly cuts him off, trying to ease the tension.
hal		Go take a walk. Calm yourself. Andy walks out, feeling embarrassed and rejected.
oliver		What was all that?
hal		Oh, Andy hasn't had it easy. Be nice to him. To everyone's surprise, Andy storms back in with a bouquet of flowers, dumps them on Hal's chest, kisses him triumphantly and leaves again.
hal		 Andy, where did you get these?
andy		Guys, guys, this is to us. Cheers. A NURSE suddenly enters.
strict nurse		Drinking's not allowed in the room. All the guys freeze.
hal		Oh, it's not? She shakes her head no, the party stops, she leaves. Oliver instinctively polite, starts packing up their cups.
oliver		I'm sorry. Moans and complaints from the group.
hal		No, no, no. She's a wonderful nurse.  Here's to health care. Hal swigs back his wine. They all laugh, grab their cups and toast.
everyone		To health care! Hal looks happy, Oliver smiles but can't believe his dad.
oliver		What did you do with my father? He was so polite.
hal		Oh, I invited him - but he never returns my calls. The guys drink merrily. Someone shoves a cup into Oliver's hand, pours him a drink.
oliver		Two, four, six, eight...
elliott		That's it? That's all you're gonna tell me?
oliver		I'm gonna meet her at her hotel again. You happy?
elliott		Yeah, I'm very happy. Are you happy? Oliver drops his books on the counter to check out.
oliver		 Here's eight... Turns to Elliot.
oliver		We haven't actually had a conversation yet, so, you know...
elliott		You're thinking about her all the time.
oliver		And you know that because?
elliott		Because you're not talking about it. I know you. There's a pause, then the truth.
oliver		It's true. It's embarrassing. I'm 38 and falling for a girl again...
young oliver		Where's Pop?
georgia		At the museum.
young oliver		Is something wrong with you guys? Georgia is startled, she hides her feelings with humor.
georgia		What're you, in the FBI?
young oliver		No.
georgia		The CIA?
young oliver		No.
georgia		KGB?  BMW? Oliver sits silently.
georgia		There is nothing wrong with me and Pop. Georgia's mask breaks revealing sadness. Oliver can see it, she can see he sees it. Georgia gets up and leads Oliver out of the room.
georgia		When you feel bad, you go into a room and scream - loud as you want, for a minute or two, then it's out of you. It's called catharsis. She opens the door, pushes him inside, and closes the door.
oliver		I don't feel like screaming... Georgia, never ruffled.
georgia		You will...
oliver		What the fuck is that?
elliott		L-E-IT, Elliot
oliver		Well, that's ridiculous.
elliott		I know!  You're not very supportive.
oliver		Well, its just copying something someone did, like, 30 years ago in the Bronx.
elliott		Well yeah. I'm part of a tradition of civil disobedience, something bigger than myself. Oliver can't believe Elliott said that.
oliver		How does it work?
elliott		Shake it, you have to shake it. Oliver shakes it awkwardly, then sprays across the wall:
elliott		What was that?
oliver		Historical consciousness... you know, something bigger than myself. Elliott scoffs.
oliver		Let's do it again. Elliott drives off. Oliver's coming to life.
anna		He's sweet. He misses your Dad. She stops. Gets up, nervous, and walks past Oliver into the next room. Oliver follows her in. They pause uncomfortably, Anna suddenly leans in and kisses him. Before it goes to far...
oliver		Maybe we, we could, um, just talk for a second.
anna		Right. They awkwardly break apart. Anna goes to a chair, Oliver follows. While nothing has really been expressed between the two, Anna seems to understand the problem.
anna		Well, my name is Anna. You're worried you can't trust me because you don't know who I am. I get it. That makes sense to me. She falters, looks at him vulnerably. Oliver abruptly kisses her. She pushes back. They pause. She traces his brow slowly with her index finger, the way she did their first night.
georgia		Oliver, stop it.
oliver		This music's old.
georgia		It's black, black music is the deepest cause they suffered the most, them and the Jews. Oliver plops down on the bed, listening to her.
georgia		In my next life I'm gonna marry a good hot blooded Jew - someone full of emotion.
oliver		I'm Jewish right? Georgia comes and sits with him, caresses his hair as she talks with him.
georgia		You're turning into a wonderful driver. Oliver's proud.
security guard		Excuse me Mrs. Fields....
georgia		What? You're not allowed to interact with the art?
security guard		It's just that...
oliver		C'mon. Still embarrassed, Oliver takes Georgia's hand and walks her away from the guard.
georgia		You too? You like being a good citizen?
oliver		No.
anna		Can you toss me my camisole. Oliver throws a sweater.
oliver		Camisole? Anna laughs.
anna		You don't know what a camisole is?
oliver		I was brought up by these animals and they didn't like questions. They're both smiling now.
oliver		They were very frowned upon. So I had to guess. Anna takes this in.
anna		You can ask me anything.
oliver		Anything? CUT TO: Oliver and Anna at the window.
oliver		What's out there? She points.
anna		That's a tree.
oliver		Yeah.
anna		And cars.
oliver		Uh-huh.
anna		Another building like this one.
oliver		Right.
anna		People in the building like us. Half of them think things will never work out. The other half believe in magic. It's like a war between them. Oliver smiles. He moves away from the window.
oliver		How do you know so much about people?
anna		Oh. Well, you have to learn how to read their faces. She climbs onto his lap, straddles him.
anna		For example... here is mad. Anna passes her hand across her face, and she's "mad".
anna		Happy... Her hand passes again and she's "happy".
anna		Sometimes its just nothing.
oliver		Oh yeah? She points at her blank face.
anna		This is nothing... And they are good at looking one way and being another way. Her playfulness is very meaningful to Oliver, he's in love.
oliver		Okay, open your eyes... HIGH ANGLE on huge trucks and traffic racing just beneath Oliver and Anna's feet under the overpass. The trucks lay on their horns as they pass, scaring and thrilling them. MOMENTS LATER: they walk alongside the LA river together, arm in arm, happy. The intimate conversation continues in voice over.
arthur subtitle		She's unlike any girl I've ever met.
oliver		Someone flashy walks into your life and you're just gonna fall for it?
arthur subtitle		Are we married yet?
oliver		No, uh, it doesn't work like that. There are other steps, it's complicated. They look at each other a beat and then walk on together.
arthur subtitle		I hope this feeling lasts.
hal		What happened with Michelle?
oliver		You know... I don't know.
hal		She seemed great.
oliver		She was great.
hal		Maybe you should take out a personal ad, where you explain your situation?
oliver		My situation?
hal		Yeah, I mean, you want to be in a relationship but you can't stay in one.
oliver		That's your fatherly advice? Personal ads?
hal		Well, a lot of people use them... I did.
oliver		What?
hal		If Andy wasn't going to be monogamous, why should I be?
oliver		Jesus, Pop.
hal		Jesus yourself.
hal		Hello house  Hello Hal. Andy holds Arthur. Hal and Arthur kiss. They've clearly missed each other. JUMP CUTS: Oliver takes bottles of pills and syrups and inhalers out of a Sav-On bag. He makes a chart of the medicine, the dosage, and puts the pills in a dish. It's emotional job for him.
hal		Oh God, what have you got this time?
andy		It's a green caterpillar.
hal		No, no, no, you don't have a green caterpillar.
andy		Oh yeah I do.
hal		Oh my God. Gross! Oh, Jesus...
hal		Hey, you going?
andy		Yeah, Michael's in town.
hal		Oh. Right. Andy waves goodbye and leaves. Hal is sad but covering it up. He catches Oliver watching.
oliver		I thought he was your boyfriend?
hal		Well, at least I'm the number one boyfriend. Hal grimaces in pain, doubles over.
oliver		Pop.
hal		Oh, my stomach.
oliver		Alright, come on. Come on. Oliver tries to clear the couch of books and dogs for Hal to sit down.
oliver		Arthur, down.
hal		Well, let's say, when you were little, you always dreamed of some day getting a lion? Oliver eases Hal down onto the couch.
hal		And you wait and you wait and you wait and you wait and the lion doesn't come. Then along comes a giraffe. Oliver helps Hal get his feet up.
hal		You can be alone or you can be with the giraffe.
oliver		I'd wait for the lion. Oliver grabs the oxygen tubes and puts them on Hal's face.
hal		That's why I worry about you. Hal looks at Oliver with love and concern.
hal		You want me to be with someone like me. I like Andy cause he's not like me... he's fun.
oliver		Hey, what did you get? She puts the cover of Liv Ullman's "Changing" over her face - Ullman's face on the cover becomes Anna's.
anna		And I found this crazy book. She holds an old copy of THE JOY OF SEX in front of her face.
oliver		That's kind of a classic American thing. Anna opens the book to a large drawing of a couple having sex.
anna		Maybe we can figure out some classic American things to do. Oliver takes the book and flips through the pages.
oliver		Yeah, Like page 75?
anna		Uh-huh.
oliver		Or 75 all the way through, through
oliver		Veronica Lake.
anna		Oh I love her.
oliver		She was a pin-up model and a film star... Success was short-lived... series of broken marriages... She struggled with mental illness and alcoholism. She died of hepatitis
anna		All these actor stories end sad. I can tell you that already. It's not a good life. Oliver closes the book, they share a look, and something vulnerable. Anna changes the mood, pulls out The Joy Of Sex, skips through the pages as she talks.
anna		No.
oliver		Yeah.
anna		Really?
oliver		It's really good. JUMP CUT: They're sitting on milk crates by the truck, ready to take their first bite, Anna dives in un-selfconsciously, we're not sure what she thinks.
oliver		What do you think?
anna		It's so good. Oliver's so relieved.
oliver		It's good? Oh, I wasn't sure you'd like it.
anna		Why?
oliver		You're an actress and staying in that fancy hotel. Anna can barely swallow her huge bite...
anna		I like this place.
anna		I used to love hotels. But now I'm always in a new apartment or... in another hotel somewhere.
oliver		How do you keep hold of friends... or boyfriends?
anna		It makes it very easy to end up alone - to leave people.
oliver		You can stay in the same place and still find ways to leave people. She reaches up with her hand, their fingers intertwine.
anna		You are like that? Its what you do? Oliver nods yes. They know each other much better than either one knew.
anna		So we are the same?
oliver		Yeah, I guess so. The look to each other.  CUT TO PAST
oliver		Pop?
hal		Oh, did I wake you? Yeah.  And now that you're here, uh, would you please put those up there?
oliver		What are you--? Pop. What?
hal		I'm reorganizing.
oliver		Prednisone makes you crazy.
hal		I'm just not sleepy. I feel great.
hal		As soon as I finish these papers. Right, papers?  Right, Hal. As soon as you're done, you can rest. Oliver can only sit and worry.  CUT TO PRESENT
anna		What?
oliver		Nothing, you're pretty.
anna		No...
oliver		Yeah.
anna		Jewish girls are not pretty. They can be "interesting", or cute, but not pretty.
oliver		You're kidding right?
anna		That's what my mom told me.
oliver		She did not. Anna laughs. As Anna continues to explain, the sound begins to fade down...
anna		No, you're right, this girl at school told me that. And I went home and my mom said, `Anna, who told you that? And Oliver's narration fades in over them walking...
oliver		Yeah. Right.  CUT TO:
oliver		Here, Pop.
hal		Oh, God.
oliver		I know, I know. Come on. Hal begins taking his many pills, with each one he pings his glass with a teaspoon as he swallows. The room is cluttered with books. Oliver picks up a toppling pile of files from a paper-filled side table.
hal		Hey, no, no, no. That's the Gay Pride Day stuff. Just leave those.
oliver		Alright. Oliver begins to neaten a messy pile of books on top of a chair.
hal		And that's for gay book club. You better leave those too.
oliver		But what about this chair? Is it gay?
hal		The chair's not gay. Obviously. Hal gets up and walks to the kitchen, his oxygen cannon cord is attached to the pump behind him, stopping him short.
oliver		Pop, Pop, the cord won't go that far.
hal		Oh, to hell with it. Hal pulls off the oxygen and keeps walking, frail but determined. Andy enters with a large pilates ball.
hal		Oh, hey what's that?
andy		Now that you're out of the hospital, you'll have to exercise, get you back into shape. Oliver can't believe it.
hal		That's a great idea.
andy		Okay, let's try it. I'll, I'll show you how. Hal's still heading to the sink.
hal		Yeah, later on, I'm gonna make myself some tea.
andy		Okay, I'll clean it up. It's a little - yech. Andy walks out, Hal pours water into a kettle, in front of him on the window sill is the same vase from the first scene of the film, with some dead daisies in it.
hal		Your mother's vase needs some flowers. Oliver looks at them frustrated and uneasy...
oliver		Pop, you just got out of the hospital, you should take it easy.
oliver		You need to tell Andy that you're... not well. Hal, continues on, avoiding looking at Oliver.
hal		You'll tell him, won't you? Oliver's flabbergasted, but his dad's vulnerability is clear to him.
oliver		Me?
hal		Please?
oliver		Hey. Oliver approaches seriously, this makes Andy nervous, he stops his workout. Oliver tries to find his words.
andy		You know that I tried to have sex with women?
oliver		Yeah?
andy		Yeah. I wanted you to know I tried, it just, it didn't work.
oliver		Hey, I don't have a problem with gay guys.
andy		Have you ever had sex with a man?
oliver		No.
andy		I heard that if a man hasn't had sex with another man, he's always afraid of gay men. You know, they're a threat. Oliver's blown away by the logic.
oliver		I don't know Andy.
andy		I didn't want you to feel threatened, I don't want to have sex with you. What I do, most people wouldn't even call it sex. Andy's relieved he got this off his chest, all tension is relieved for him, Oliver is just confused.
oliver		Okay, okay.
andy		Hey... Andy gives Oliver a big sweaty hug. Oliver leaves.
oliver		I couldn't tell him.
hal		That's okay.
oliver		No it's not. You can't hide this from him. He loves you.
hal		For someone with so much relationship advice, you seem awfully alone. Oliver, angry but at a loss for words, takes the flower vase and leaves, Arthur follows.
oliver		Just act natural. When he's not looking, we'll make a run for it, okay?  CUT TO PRESENT
anna		Don't, don't. It keeps ringing.
anna		It's my dad. They both watch the phone as it rings and stops.
oliver		He's that bad? She picks up the phone, and gestures for Oliver to pick up the line next to him.
anna		 Honey? She gestures again, Oliver picks up the phone on his side of the bed. Anna turns away, he can only see her back across the bed. He turns away too.
oliver		Oui? Anna continues to talk in a different voice.
anna		C'est toi, cheri?
oliver		Oui Papa.
anna		You never call me back.
anna		You know, I can't stop thinking about, you know, about it. Doing it.
oliver		Doing what?
anna		Killing myself. You are the only one I can tell that to. Oliver breaks role, turns around looks at her.
oliver		You should tell mom about that, not me. She just looks at him. Back into phone.
anna		You are my girl. They hang up. She's embarrassed, she lightens the mood to get out of this intimacy.
anna		Now I have to kill you.
oliver		Just as it was going so well.
anna		I know. I'm sorry. She tosses a pillow over his face and pretends to shoot him twice. She pulls the pillow back tentatively, he's smiling.
oliver		Hey Anna?
anna		Hey Oliver?
oliver		How do you feel about vandalism? It's the last question she thought he'd ask. She's amused.
anna		I don't know. Pretty okay.
elliott		Oliver, don't write any of that serious stuff, okay? Just write something funny. Girls like funny.
shauna		You know what? Here, give me Arthur. We'll just stay here and get arrested. You know, that's good. Oliver leaves Arthur with her, and Anna and Elliott and him head off to the billboard. They climb it's structure, it's high and a bit scary. On the top is a gang plank looking over the city. Anna is happy she came. Elliott goes to paint the back side of the billboard. Oliver meets up with Anna, over looking the city.
oliver		You okay?
anna		Yeah. I'm gonna stay here with my new friend .
oliver		Okay. Oliver walks out and writes big letters across the billboard.
anna		C'est beau ici.
oliver		Yeah. He comes to her, wanting to get beyond the romance somehow.
oliver		I'm trying to impress you.
anna		 Really? She walks to him and puts her hands around his head, somehow it's more intimate and vulnerable now.
anna		It's working. They kiss. MOMENTS LATER. They're at the bottom of the ladder. They all run back to their car.
oliver		Arthur, Arthur. I'm sorry. We see the old man's face, it's not Hal, but it the resemblance hits Oliver too. The man is struggling with his hotel key card.
old man		Oh. No problem. No problem. What's with this card?
old man		Thank you. He disappears. Oliver looks overwhelmed by this ghost. Anna senses what's happened. She leads Oliver to their room.
anna		He looked like your dad?
oliver		Yeah. She wants to take care of him, she lays him back on the bed, helps him take his coat off, she's sitting on him, caressing him - Oliver is overwhelmed by memory.
oliver		Somewhere along the line, he stopped admitting to himself that he was sick.
hal		Oliver, this is Blake. He's a wonderful man. CU of the small round registration tattoos on Hal's chest
hal		Look. I finally got a tattoo. Registration purposes of course.  CUT BACK TO PRESENT
anna		Good for him.
oliver		He had a lot of parties.
hal		Well, glad you could make it.
oliver		I thought I was making dinner?
hal		It's movie night. Oliver and Hal make their way through a crowd of Hal's gay friends. They're in party mode.
party guest		Hal, you look wonderful.
hal		Oh, I'm turning the corner on this thing. We loose Hal and Oliver in the group...
hal		Well...
oliver		You have stage 4 cancer?
hal		It's not as bad as it sounds.
hal		That's not what it means.
oliver		What does it mean?
hal		It just means it's been through 3 other stages. Oliver doesn't know what to say, he looks through the door at all of Hal's friends -- happy, laughing, partying. He looks back at Hal, ready to fight him more, but for the first time we can see fear and doubt in Hal's face.
oliver		What movie are we watching?
hal		"The Life of Harvey Milk." He was the first openly gay politician...
oliver		Yeah I know who Harvey Milk is.
hal		Good, good.
hal		Eventually Jesus grew old. He could no longer walk far and he could no longer preach in a loud voice. One day he announced to his apostles that he was departing. The three disciples prayed with him, gave him water, bathed and fed him. After gasping for breath for several days, one morning, just as dawn came, Jesus passed away.
oliver		You re-wrote Jesus' death? They all laugh.
hal		It was so violent, we need new stories. Oliver goes over and kisses Hal on the head.
anna		Stay here. She starts to close the door, Arthur scratches, she tries again, he scratches. She opens the door, Arthur trots out into the hallway - Anna catches up with him.
oliver		Anna?
anna		I couldn't sleep, I wanted to walk around... Oliver's petting Arthur. He's confused and hurt.
anna		You've lost so much. What if I can't make up for that?
oliver		If this is too much, then we should just stop. Oliver gets up and starts to leave, Anna's surprised. She catches up with him puts her arms around him from behind.
anna		Wait, wait. She forces him to stay there.
anna		I don't want to stop. They hold this pose in silence for a beat, then, surprisingly, he hoists her over his shoulder, and carries her back to their room. She laughs, they've made it past this trouble.
andy		Ready? Andy has a set-up of large fireworks ready to go, Hal and twelve friends stand by, Oliver's behind.
oliver		No!
hal		Again!
everyone		Arthur! Arthur... Arthur...
anna		Ah, you're awake! Arthur says it's time to get up, he says he has the day off.
oliver		He talks to you too?
anna		Yeah.
oliver		Your English is not so perfect. And he said ten minutes.
oliver		You okay?  You did really well.
elliott		Yeah, I can't believe that was your first time.
oliver		 You watching all the humans going around and around. The manager of the rink suddenly arrives, upset.
manager		Excuse me. There's no dogs allowed in the building. You need to remove him from the premises please.
oliver		If I leave him on his own, he loses all control.
manager		I'm sorry. There's no dogs allowed in the building.
oliver		Yeah, but if I leave him in the car, he cries, he howls. I can't leave him in the car.
manager		I don't know what she's saying but I don't like it.
oliver		She is just talking in French. She's saying it's OK, it is such a small dog.
manager		You need to remove the dog from the premises or I'm going to have to call the authorities.
oliver		You're gonna call the authorities?
anna		Dans ce pays! On ne peut pas amener un chien. On peut rien faire. Mais c'est con...
oliver		Sorry, excuse us, sorry. They enter Anna's door.
oliver		He shouldn't do this to you. The phone in the next room keeps ringing. He awkwardly skates to it and unplugs it. He returns.
anna		Even if we don't answer, he's still in here .I go somewhere else, he's still here. Oliver can relate.
oliver		Your leaving soon?
anna		Yeah.
oliver		I think you should come to my house and move in with me.
anna		Would you want a strange girl like me?
oliver		Yeah, a lot. She's very moved.
anna		Do you cook?
oliver		Yes . She laughs. She almost cries as she thinks this over. She skates to him, puts her arms around him.
anna		I would love that. They kiss.
oliver		But now I'm going to have to kill you for sure now.
anna		Why?
oliver		Cause I'm falling in love with you. The sound in the room fades down, Oliver's narration fades in over the shot of them embracing in their skates.
oliver		Next one.
hal		Lord. With each swallow he pings a glass with a fork. Hal opens a letter from a gay rights organization, he hands Oliver the rainbow sticker we just saw.
oliver		Yeah, everyone knows that, here. He gives Hal another pill, another reluctant difficult swallow, another ping.
hal		No they don't.
oliver		Everyone knows about that Pop.
hal		Don't be ridiculous. Hal's hiding something, he doesn't look Oliver in the eyes when he asks...
hal		Did you know, about me? Oliver shakes his head no.
oliver		No, I just thought you and mom weren't in love.
hal		We loved each other.
oliver		But you were gay that whole time.
hal		I learned how not to be.
oliver		For 44 years?
hal		I knew I was gay, though, at dinner parties I was looking at the husbands not the wives.
oliver		What about sex? You guys had sex?
hal		She didn't think I was the greatest lover, but we made do. Look, I liked my life, the museum, our house, that's what I wanted.
oliver		And mom? You wanted mom too right? Frustrated and angry, Oliver takes the pill tray into the kitchen, leaving Hal behind.
hal		Yes, stop that.
hal		She proposed to me you know. This draws Oliver back into the room.
hal		I said - look I love you and we're great buddies but you know what I am. And then she says, that doesn't matter. I'll fix that. Oliver's never heard this part of the story before.
hal		Andy's moving in.
oliver		Yeah? Is that a good idea? Hal hugs Oliver.
hal		Just be happy about it. Oliver can't just be happy about it.
oliver		This is the idea, is that it's the history of sadness. Oliver spreads out an impossible long CD panel design.
oliver		Here, this could be your... The panels go on and on.
oliver		Your gonna need a big CD box. JUMP CUT: Later, Oliver's still trying to talk the band into his idea. Four billion years ago, Earth begins. And the idea is that sadness has not been created yet. JUMP CUT: Oliver and the RECORD COMPANY REP now alone.
oliver		I'm sorry.
oliver		Well, that went well.
arthur subtitle		Are we married yet?
oliver		Come on Arthur.
oliver		This is the living room. He leads her into the dining room.
oliver		Dining room. Oliver points to a photo of his parents when they were in their 50's.
oliver		There are my parents. My mom. Hal, Georgia, this is Anna - Anna - Hal, Georgia. Anna's overwhelmed feeling increases, she continues to try to roll with it.
anna		Hello.
oliver		These're the stairs.
anna		Yeah?
oliver		They go up.
oliver		I emptied these for you. I'll get your case.
oliver		Are you okay? She want's to be, she hides it all by initiating sex with him, physical and fast.
anna		You OK?
oliver		Are you?
anne		I couldn't sleep, I didn't want to bug you. Oliver can't overcome his mistrust of her and the whole situation. She tries to defend herself, honest and vulnerable.
anna		I was nervous, and excited. I kept thinking, maybe I'm not so lost.
oliver		Why were you crying yesterday? They're miles apart.
anna		You okay?
oliver		Yeah.
anna		You seem so unhappy with me.
oliver		Well are you happy here?
anna		Maybe I'm not perfect at it. I don't really know what I'm doing... but I want to be here. He's silent, distant, confused. She's hurt by his silence and mistrust and leaves.
oliver		I don't know Anna. I don't think this is what I am supposed to feel like. Anna looks crushed and surprised.
anna		Okay. I will go back to New York then. She gets up to go.
hal		Have I done something wrong?
hal		I see.
hal		You did an excellent job Dr. Long. Thank you... for... For coming to the party. Oliver's devastated.
hal		You always wanted to hold my hand when you were little. I couldn't, you know. I was afraid it would look funny. I wanted to be close, you know and my father certainly was never close with me. God, I hope I wasn't like that.
oliver		I can barely remember you from when I was little.
hal		I guess I was at work.
fancy woman		Oh! Georgia smiles at her, casually unnerving. Oliver pulls her away.
oliver		Let's go home. CUT TO: Oliver and Georgia heading away through the gallery.
georgia		What about your father? What will he possibly do without us?
older woman		Georgia? You leaving?
georgia		Yes Mary, it's an emergency, Oliver's appendix has ruptured.
older woman		Oh dear. They look at Oliver who's mortified.
georgia		He's a very composed child.
oliver		Let's go. Oliver pulls her away before she starts any more trouble.
georgia		Aha. The infamous left. Up a new street, they arrive at the next stop.
georgia		And? Oliver points left.
georgia		Left again. Going in circles. I like it. Irreverent but heavy, they drive on.
arthur subtitle		We knew it wouldn't work even before we met her. Oliver get's this more than ever. Something changes inside of him, he picks up his cel phone and dials.
oliver		Anna? Where where you?
oliver		Hey.
elliott		Hey.
elliott		Alright.
oliver		Okay? Thanks. Elliott closes the door. Oliver heads back to his car and Arthur's howling begins. It's an incredibly sad and desperate howl. Oliver gets to his car, the howling doesn't stop, Oliver can't ignore it. Oliver get's out of the car, heads back to house to get Arthur.
andy		He remembers me. It's true, Oliver's surprised.
oliver		Hey. Look I'm so sorry... But I'm, I'm at your front door. I'm in New York. Anna, still in bed, sits up and feels something.
oliver		You, you're in LA? Anna laughs, but is touched.
anna		Yeah, but I didn't leave.
oliver		Fuck. I'm in your building. Anna laughs.
anna		There is a hide-a-key behind it.
oliver		Okay, I'm inside. Wow, there's like nothing here.
anna		No. Oliver moves forward into the kitchen.
anna		Why do you leave everyone? Why did you let me go? Oliver thinks for a moment.
hal		Isn't Juan's hair wonderful.
juan		Thanks. I use this great mousse.
hal		Well it's terrific.
juan		Do you wanna try some? Hal turns shy and young.
hal		Oh, no.
juan		Just a little bit?
hal		I don't think so.
juan		Come on. Just try a little bit. It'll be fun.
juan		Yeah.
hal		How do you do it?
juan		Okay, I'm going to show you how. Juan steps away and grabs his mousse, puts a little in his hand and sits back down on Hal's bed. He begins to spread it gently through wisps of Hal's white hair. Oliver watches Hal close his eyes, and deeply enjoy this simple affection and camaraderie with another gay man.
juan		There.
hal		Is that it? Hal looks into camera which is Oliver's POV.
hal		How do I look? Oliver's filled with love, happiness, regret.
oliver		Great. You look great.
juan		Oliver. He's gone. Oliver gets up. He can now see to the hospital bed, Hal's lifeless profile. Oliver is lost. Oliver goes to Hal, puts his head on his chest and cries.
oliver		Hey.
andy		Hey.
oliver		Arthur... Oliver picks him up, he gets all of Arthur's stuff, he's a little cold to Andy.
oliver		Thank you... Thanks.
andy		It's cause I'm gay, isn't it? Oliver stops and looks back.
oliver		What?
andy		You never called or came to see me? Oliver falters, not know how to say it, then...
oliver		No. No, it's because my father loved you so much. This hits Andy hard. Oliver turns to leave but can't. He turns back, goes to Andy and they hug.
oliver		Arthur... hey. Hey, how've you been?
oliver		Hey. She's a bit tentative, but she's here and happy.
anna		Hey.
oliver		Come in, come in. Arthur runs up and Anna bends down to greet him. They missed each other. Anna walks in and Oliver follows.
anna		The living room. She heads to the dinning room.
anna		Dining room... Oliver laughs nervously. In the dining room, Hal's old boxes are still stacked along the walls. Oliver leans forward and pulls something out of a box. She looks at a personal ad application, with the picture of Hal in the open jean jacket we saw at the beginning of the film.
anna		Oh. Crazy picture...
oliver		Yeah.
anna		Can I read it?
oliver		Sure.
anna		I'm looking for sex with the hope it turns into friendship or a relationship. But I don't insist on monogamy.
various locations		We see REPEAT SHOTS of Hal, and in every shot he's looking at camera. Hal telling Oliver he's gay, Hal napping with Andy and waving at Oliver, Hal after Juan put in his hair mousse looking at Oliver, Hal showing Oliver his radiation tatoo...  ANNA  And in addition to art, I like houses, gardens, parties, and walking with my Jack Russell. I'm 5'11", 160 pounds. I'm trim, gray hair, blue eyes, hairy cheest.  CUT BACK TO THE PRESENT
oliver		Chest...
oliver		I like giving and getting rubdowns and then going into mutual soft stuff. They both smile.
anna		I have a nice house with food, drinks, friends and me. If you are willing to try an older guy, let's meet and see what happens. She looks at the photo again.
anna		He didn't give up. They look at each other, more vulnerable and willing than we've seen them.
oliver		What happens now?
anna		I don't know.
oliver		How does that work? They look at each other, they smile.
****Dialogues from script :Being_Human.txt****

january, 1992		WARNER BROS. INC.                           1992 4000 Warner Boulevard                      WARNER BROS. INC. Burbank, California 91522                  All Rights Reserved
being human		Hector is a family man. He and his woman and two children live near the ocean in a sheltered fold on a hillside, a shallow cave given protection at its entrance by a covering of branches and brush. Just inside a small fire smoulders permanently, a few times a day encouraged into life for cooking or warmth. If it ever went out it would be a catastrophe, so it remains a smouldering com- fort and a constant preoccupation for the whole family. Hector doesn't know that his name is Hector. It is simply a convenience to help us tell his story. The idea of individual names is an imaginative leap that has not yet been made by mankind when we first meet him. Hector is living out his life 4000 years before the birth of Christ, in a reasonably temperate zone of the planet. In his entire life Hector will traverse no more than ten square miles of it.
hector		No... stay here... stay! Hector takes a few steps.    The Boy follows.
hector		No... go back... go away...
hector		Leave me alone! Stay here... Stay!
hector		Up the hill! DEIRDRE No, down onto the other beach. The little ones can't take the hill. Neither can I.
hector		Up the hill! They're down there already. I saw them!
deirdre		You're wrong! She runs off down the slope. Hector has no choice but to follow her, herding the children in front of him.
girl		Come back, Dada...
hector		Don't move from here. I'll come for you in the morning. There's no food. Try and sleep in the branches. Don't cry. Don't make a noise. Hector moves off, looking back to his children in the tree.  They too gaze anxiously at him. They don't wave. Maybe waving hasn't been invented yet. Hector heads off alone, higher into the hills.
leader		What do we do? Do we throw you over, is that the idea? Hector doesn't understand.    He looks at him blankly. LEADER He wants me to throw you over. What does it do? Does it help the sun? Should I throw you over? The Leader tries to help Hector understand by miming the act of throwing him off the cliff. Hector doesn't know how to respond. PRIEST I tell you, it's one man, one stone. It'll help the voyage. The Leader is unsure. He walks around the pile of stones, checking it out from all sides as if it was some infernal machine that he didn't know the workings of. He squats down and squints through it to the watery sun emerging from the clouds far out to sea. He looks across to Hector, now sitting on the grass. The Leader sits down beside him. They sit together like friends. The ageless intimacy of sacrificer and victim.
leader		What's it got to do with the sun? PRIEST I don't know, yet.
priest		It's meaningless, without him going over the cliff.
stallholder		No mice. HECTOR Two chicken legs, then, cold, and the bread. As Hector is given the food and pays for it, he sees another man, JULIAN, approach Lucinnius, trailed by TWO SLAVES. One of them is carrying a folding chair much more substantial than Lucinnius's. Julian and Lucinnius greet one another and sit down to talk, Lucinnius at something of a height disadvantage. The Two Slaves move off to one side. Lucinnius's mood has brightened since the arrival of his friend. Their conversation seems open and friendly. Hector gives his master his food, and then moves to join the Two Slaves, hearing a snatch of the conversation as he goes.
julian		Of course you're free to call at my house at anytime, but I was receiving Nepos... how could I admit you? Hector offers to share his bread with the other Two Slaves. They easily fall into conversation, inevitably, about their masters.
hector		When did you hear? SLAVE #2 Last night. Nepos knew. Pirates. They're sunk, he reckons. That could finish him, eh? HECTOR This is the worst it's been.                           * SLAVE #1 You'll be up for sale before you know it!
hector		Well... if he'd pulled it off he'd be in Rome by now... SLAVE #1 And you with him... Hector nods his head thoughtfully.
hector		And me with him... half way home...
hector		Will he lend you the money? LUCINNIUS He was honest about it. He said so, plain and simple. No. HECTOR That's a problem.
lucinnius		When we get home I want you to get some chickens... and fetch Hermas, the diviner. HECTOR Yes.
lucinnius		Are my ships from Sicily still afloat...?
hermas		... and we can't ask the Gods specific questions like that... it's a gentle, probing enquiry... general questions... but let's see. He cuts into the chicken liver and prods around the in- side. The other two wait in silence. HERMAS General answer... no... * LUCINNIUS What do you mean? HERMAS I mean, no.   The liver says no...
hermas		If you want to do it  again, you need another chicken  and another fifteen sesterces...  and I'd like the first fifteen now  please. Hector looks a Lucinnius, who nods reluctantly. Hector opens his purse and counts out the coins for Hermas.
figure		I missed you last night. It is Thalia. We can tell that they are close.      Hector sits down beside her.
hector		He kept me working until morning.
thalia		What's happening? 
thalia		She doesn't like him. HECTOR Nobody does. He's unfortunate. You get people like that. Clumsy and sad. Thalia looks out towards the sea.
thalia		Why does the thunder always stay out on the ocean? Hector puts an arm around Thalia. At first it feels                 * strange, their physical intimacy alongside their matter- of-fact conversation, but gradually we understand it, the giving and taking of comfort where it can be found, and the realness of their friendship. Their stroking and touching and holding becomes good to watch. We get a feeling for what they have given one another, in stolen hours and half hours, up here on the roof, the only place where they can be themselves. HECTOR It's the Gods arguing. They're working out what to do with Lucinnius... he'll be lying awake down there... wondering what they're saying about him.
thalia		Then what? HECTOR What we talk about.
thalia		It's what you talk about. HECTOR We talk about it because it can                          * never happen. What we do is you                          * and me... THALIA I don't understand. I think you'll leave. You're going to leave me here.
hector		Never. It's you and me now. That's all. THALIA Well.   We stay here.   He'll survive.                   * Hector is silent, still kissing her.      He yawns as he              * speaks.
hector		Then I can see you every night. I'm tired.
lucinnius		I can't sleep. Get me a chicken. I want to make another sacrifice. We'll do it ourselves.
man		Can't you find a woman, Hector... Hector smiles. He isn't surprised to see them. They are only doing what he and Thalia do on the roof. The Slaves have their meeting places scattered all over the house. HECTOR Sorry to trouble you... just fetching a chicken... good night ... the roof's free... The Man shakes his head with a smile. Hector leaves, the sleepy chicken going to meet her fate in his arms. HECTOR Come on, miss, you can tell Lucinnius his future.
lucinnius		Relieved anyway... relieved that it's over at last. Lucinnius strides out of the courtyard with Hector following after him.
hector		Will he help you?
lucinnius		I have to kill myself by tomorrow morning. He has all my letters to Titinius, none of them got through. He says it's like treason... and he says I should want to die for owing him half a million anyway...
hector		What if you don't...
lucinnius		I'm done for, Hector... but it's strange... I feel kind of good about it... the struggle is over ... we've seen it through together, eh? HECTOR I don't know what to say.
lucinnius		Let's get home. We have a lot to do. Lucinnius quickens his pace. LUCINNIUS Tonight... peace at last... Lucinnius is obviously in a state of shock.
hector		I don't understand. What do you want me to do... I don't think I can help you...
lucinnius		We'll help each other, Hector. We must. We've been through this whole mess together... we must die together.
hector		You say we... I don't know... what is we? I've done nothing... I                        * know nothing... Lucinnius changes his tone, becomes more, in his own mind, frank, man-to-man. LUCINNIUS Hector... at Cyprian's this morning ... I had to sign certain papers ... tell a bit of a story... * HECTOR What kind of story? LUCINNIUS A confession. That we were plotting against Cyprian and the provincial senate... we were short of names... most of the people I know were in the room... people I thought were my friends... so I mentioned you... I had to... Hector is stunned with shock...
hector		So I'm a conspirator?
lucinnius		Yes. So you see, I don't want you to die with me just because of my honor... it's more complicated... I'm sorry, Hector. I would be honored... if you would die with me... I mean it... Hector manages to speak.
lucinnius		Of course.
hector		This is the worst it's been.
hector		But even if it's round you can still fall off the edge. Hector has picked up a large metal plate to help him make his point. GALLUS No... it's not round like that... it's round like this. Gallus sees his playball.     He picks it up.
hector		Do you believe everything that Greek tells you...?
gallus		How many months did they march you here?
hector		Seven. Gallus walks out the distance from Rome with his fingers,      * as if there is serious calculation.                            * GALLUS It must be about here.                            *
gallus		I'll ask him tomorrow...                          * Hector remembers that he and the boy's father are              * supposed to die that night. He looks on Gallus with a          * new tenderness. HECTOR Yes, tell me tomorrow... I'd like to know... because my children are round there and I want to know that they're getting the sun... ask him something else, too... where are the gods if the whole thing is round?
gallus		I think I know that... they're out here, and all around... that's how they can look down and see everything...
lucinnius		If he eats the grain it means yes.
lucinnius		No, it's saying yes, we should die.
hector		But you asked it if we had to die, or if there was another way... it's saying yes, there is... LUCINNIUS No, it's saying yes, we should die. The bird is certainly enjoying his food. HECTOR Maybe it's just hungry... The chicken is inscrutable, as they are prone to be. 39   INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT                                     39 A dead chicken adorns Lucinnius's table. He and his wife, DALMIA, and their son are lying on their couches picking at the food with their fingers. Lucinnius is drinking more wine than usual. Hector and the other household slaves are in attendance. Thalia is also there, serving her mistress. Dalmia knows something is up, but she doesn't know what. She attempts to break the silence. She calls on the cook from the kitchen. DALMIA Solus!
solus		It's what we have to hand in the kitchen, ma'am... I always try to use the fresh stuff... the chickens have just been turning up... He looks again at Lucinnius and Hector. They look at each other. Thalia looks at Hector. Dalmia looks at them all looking at each other, more intrigued than she was before.
slave		Two men have come to see you. From Cyprian. Lucinnius and Hector look at each other and share a moment of hope. They might be coming with good news, perhaps a softening of Cyprian's heart.
lucinnius		Thank you, gentlemen... But I feel that I will be capable of taking care of my affairs tonight without your help... Thank Cyprian for his kind thought... The heavies metaphorically keep their foot in the door.
lucinnius		Thank you.   Good night. VISITOR We'll call in the morning at any rate... just to make sure. LUCINNIUS Thank you.
visitor		Getting it out's not as easy as you might think... you have to twist a bit... to get over the stickiness...
lucinnius		Nothing else to be done.    Don't you want some wine? HECTOR No... but I want something... LUCINNIUS What is it? HECTOR I want to die a free man... I don't want to die a slave...
lucinnius		Well... freed man, let's do it.                         *
hector		What do you want me to do? LUCINNIUS Nothing... I mean, not to me... I have to do it first... you understand that... and then you... if I don't succeed... then you must help me... HECTOR I understand. LUCINNIUS No point in messing up the room. Let's go downstairs.
lucinnius		Oh, that hurts, that stings! Lucinnius sits back on the step of the washing pool, holding his stomach. Hector sits down beside him. They both look down at the blade, still in Lucinnius' body. LUCINNIUS This is hopeless.
hector		Lie still... lie still...
lucinnius		Do it Hector... do it... you promised... It looks as if Hector is playing for time.
hector		Shush... I'll need the knife... 
lucinnius		Do it, Hector... do it... do it... Hector has the knife in his hand, but still he waits, looking at Lucinnius, willing the last dregs of life from him. LUCINNIUS Do it... do it... do it... The whispers fade to a croak. Lucinnius lies still. Hector has won this final battle of wills. He stands    up, suddenly repulsed by what has happened. But quickly    he gathers his wits. He makes his decision. He throws     the knife down. It clatters along the hard shiny floor. Hector has run out of the room before it has come to    rest against the wall.
hector		I'm leaving... come now if you want to... but we must hurry... I'm a free man... I'm free. Will you come?
thalia		And then?   Then you go home?                          * Hector hurries on, noncommittal in his reply.
hector		You can go to anywhere from Rome.
hector		Where is the Captain?
hector		Good morning, Captain... I'm looking for passage to Rome, for both of us...
captain		And who might you be? HECTOR I'm the steward of Lucinnius the merchant... we have business in Rome... I need an immediate passage... CAPTAIN It's five or six days... to                        * Brundisium... you can walk or ride from there... you have money? HECTOR Of course. * CAPTAIN Well, let's see... passage for two... food for two... six days... what were you thinking of offering? HECTOR When do you leave? CAPTAIN Anxious to leave, are you? HECTOR Keen to start, yes.
crewman		Captain says to come on deck. Hector wakes Thalia and they clamber out of the darkness of the hold onto the brightest, freshest of days at sea.
thalia		Where's the land gone? * Hector, too, is taken by the novelty of it all but is less prepared to admit it. He waves his hands around the empty horizon noncommittally. THALIA Have you been on a ship before?
hector		Yes, of course. We can tell he is lying. THALIA Me, too, but they kept us down there. She points down into the lower depths of the hold.   Then she gets even more excited.
thalia		Tonight... we'll be where the thunder is! They look at each other and then all around them. The freshness of the day and on an overwhelming feeling of freedom, exhilarate them. Their senses and their feelings, are in new territory. They are like children in a brand-new world. The Captain on the other side of the ship, beckons them.         *
captain		Thought you would like to see them.
nun		She's already received the last rites, before she left her family. She belongs to God now... Don't you?                    *
priest		... I will carry my unspilt seed from this world to the next... as should every man...
priest		It's simple, brother... if we cease carnal union entirely then in fifty or so years we'll all be rid of our earthly lives and God can proceed with His reign over His heavenly kingdom... that same paradise that God gave to man before, but which man was so unfit to inhabit that within seven hours Eve was already tempting her master and mate, and within nine hours the Lord had to expel the both of them! Just think, they                    * messed it up in nine hours!                       *
hector		A bit cold... walking... She smiles at him. He sits opposite her in the wagon, and allows his foot to touch hers. She doesn't move away. Hector calls to the Driver. HECTOR How long to get there?
driver		When it gets dark, we'll be there.                   *
beatrice		I don't know what you're saying... I haven't understood anything you've said all day...
priest		God, I'm starving. Do you think I dare heat that up on the fire?
priest		Have some wine.
hector		I saw some fighting today... back up the road...
priest		So, the mad knights are at it again... what were they, Swiss or English?
hector		I don't know.    They all look the same to me. PRIEST It might help us get through... if there's a bit of confusion... we'll still travel separately though, for now. The Priest changes his tone of voice, mocking his own holy act. PRIEST But, Hector, you must keep out of the way of temptation... I saw the way you were eyeing up that widow... now stay away from that... although she is beautiful, is she not... but we're going home, remember. Hector is smiling.
hector		How do you know she's a widow? PRIEST Look at her eyes... hungry eyes... she could lead you into trouble... she smells like paradise, though. He changes his tone yet again.       He talks straight.
priest		Why do I always talk so much... you weren't even thinking of her 'til I opened my mouth... but I trust you... don't worry. I know you wouldn't do anything to anger your God, or me. Get me some bread. Hector obeys the Priest without thought.        The Priest is           * happier now that he is in control again. PRIEST Who saved your neck in Venice? HECTOR You did, Ronald.
hector		I won't be travelling today.
hector		I'll stay. PRIEST You should go.
soldier		Must be sore in there.   Is it your dada? The Squire looks at him and nods his head.       Hector looks        * with sympathy at the boy.                                            *
hector		I think you know what I'm saying ... a little...
hector		I don't want your word for home, I want you to say mine... home... home... BEATRICE Come on, you can do it... home... home... Beatrice has her way, turning the tables on Hector.    He says it in her language.
hector		Home... home... Beatrice smiles. In this tiny victory the dynamic of their relationship is set. BEATRICE That's it... clever boy!
beatrice		Tick... it's a tick. HECTOR Flea... a flea... thanks.
hector		Why don't we go somewhere and have a good session... I could do you... I'd like to give you a good grooming... They understand each other perfectly now.         They look around for a more private spot.
beatrice		That's four.
hector		Yes, it does feel good. She gives his scalp a final delicious rub, and then stops.
beatrice		You can do me now. Beatrice loosens her clothing to bare her neck and shoulders. Hector begins to probe her hair and scalp.            * She arches her back under the first touch of his fingers. Hector laps it up, inspired to caress ever more tenderly         * her scalp and neck, still with the outward purpose of looking for fleas. HECTOR Got one... a tiny little one... yours are so small... and fair...                      * To Hector even her fleas are a delight. He seems to want         * to keep it as a pet. There is no hope for this man.              * Beatrice moans softly, happily. Hector still kneading            * her scalp. HECTOR I don't know your name. I'm Hector... who are you? I'm Hector. Beatrice replies with a hint of breathlessness.
beatrice		Hector... yes... I'm Beatrice...
hector		Beatrice. BEATRICE Yes. Hector... I think you'll have to do under my arms... I'm a little itchy there... 
beatrice		Maybe we should find the river, and have a proper wash... In between parting the hairs on her scalp Hector is kiss- ing her on the neck now. At first it is small, snatched kisses amongst the grooming, but soon the kisses become longer and the grooming less.
beatrice		I'm still itchy lots of places, Hector.
priest		How long for you on the road?
nun		Three or four days. PRIEST Good luck to you.
nun		They're not killing nuns, yet.
priest		The Saxon, won't he go with you? 
soldier		That's it, Peter... tell everybody ... write it... don't forget it... Peter... tell them Peter died here ... my name is Peter... Peter... say it again.
hector		Good morning. Hector and Beatrice look at each other. The Priest looks at them in turn. Their cheeky act of innocence mocks him.
hector		Moving on, as you told me to... we'll meet up, like you said. I'll wait for you at the channel. * PRIEST She'll do you harm. I told    you. She might be a witch. Wait    for me. I still have the money     from Venice. We can be home in    a month. HECTOR Witch my arse. Stop giving me orders. Both of them are unhappy now, confusing one another, spoiling their friendship. HECTOR You're a strange fellow. Are you a priest? Are you jealous?
soldier		We're moving soon, Father. 
priest		So, you're leaving?
hector		You have work to do here. The Priest walks back up to the farm. Hector calls out              * what might be an attempt at an apology or simply another            * taunt. HECTOR I don't understand you.
hector		Why do you smell so wonderful? He lifts his head to let her see him sniffing.                     *
beatrice		Oh, you like my smell, do you? I make it from the flowers. I put                       * it here, and there, and there. Hector kisses her more. She smiles and turns her head to the sky. Then she starts to giggle.
beatrice		I don't believe it... someone's watching us, the dirty devil... don't look... he's down by the water, by the rocks... Hector doesn't understand, and keeps on with his kissing. Only her persistent giggling makes him stop and look up.           * Hector sees him too. Down by the stream a head peering over the top of a rock, not even attempting to hide. * BEATRICE Cheeky devil.
hector		He's not moving. He must've seen us, though. * She sits up and straightens her clothing, suddenly anxious.
beatrice		Don't look at him anymore. Let's go... down the other side of the hill.
hector		Come on, we're going that way at any rate. They move cautiously. When they are closer to it, and                 * can see it for what is is, they walk straight for the dead body.
hector		We should go now. We've been here too long. BEATRICE I wonder if his mama will ever know what happened.
hector		You said mama. I know what that is... mama... We can talk the same...
beatrice		Mama... that's right... mama...
beatrice		Yes, of course... we stay on this side of the river, all the way down... until tomorrow... HECTOR I stay on this side...
beatrice		Yes... On this side. Then the other. They move off, each thinking that they have reached agreement. Beatrice starts to sing as they make a                * gentle descent into the forests below.
hector		I think we're going the wrong way. I want the sun on my back. We should have stayed on the other side.
beatrice		This is when I wish you could understand me. You'll have to learn, you know... I want you to stay here. You want to, don't you?
beatrice		I still have his clothes.   I'll make them fit you...
beatrice		I like you. You like me too, don't you? We were lucky to meet the way we did. All the men around here are old.                                          * Beatrice falls silent, overtaken     by her shyness. Hector understands fully what she means     now, but his mind is a confusion. He can't respond.       She tries to direct his thoughts to the one area she is     sure about. BEATRICE Come up and I'll show you the bed... She climbs a   ladder nearby and lifts open a trapdoor on the wooden   ceiling. Hector climbs up to join her and together they   stand on the ladder with their heads poking into the tiny   space above.
beatrice		A good bed, eh? For you and me. We can have fun up here... better than a ditch...
beatrice		These are my children...
beatrice		Take Hector to the well... but come here first.
hector		You must sit there... look... you need the light from the window... it's your seat... I don't want it... it's yours... I can sit on the box. The old woman   allows herself a shy smile. Whether in innocence or   mischief, she has secured the best seat in the house for   herself. If he stays, Hector will never dare rest his   bones in it.
hector		Ah... The Boy says something and points towards his sister. She stands by her cauldron, stirring the bubbling liquid. Hector goes to watch her work. He looks in the cauldron. HECTOR Good color... for cloth?
hector		Peepee? The Girl nods enthusiastically.      The Boy is sniggering.
beatrice		Take a walk to the village if you want... you look as if you need a walk...
hector		I had a wonderful dream. I was                       * lying under a tree, beside a river. I was dozing. I heard the water... beautiful clear water. I got up and drank some. I think I ate some                   * raspberries too.
andre		I would like some water. Hector looks around him at the squalid mass of distressed humanity. HECTOR                                 * God, this is the worst, the worst.                   *
andre		Do you think I'll still see Europe? HECTOR I think there's more chance of me eating you, Andre. 
sailor		It's full of Africans too.
dom paulo		Two parties of ten men each... one to the north and one to the south... bring back what you can... game, fruit, anything... and send someone back as soon as you find fresh water. Any trouble, discharge three shots.
francisco		I don't have to ask her... I know she would agree with me... leave us alone. His stubborn rejection of Hector reveals just how strong their friendship once was.
hector		Well... would you take my cloth, at least?
francisco		Keep it and build your own hovel somewhere else... leave us alone...!
sailor		They ran off with the dry bread...                     * about eight of them, sir...                            * Dom Paulo looks at the two prisoners. DOM PAULO You men are deserters. You will die tomorrow. He speaks again to the Sailor. DOM PAULO Chain them on the raft for tonight, and watch them... Francisco steps forward, outraged.
francisco		I must object... these sentences can't be lawful...
dom paulo		Do you think so?
francisco		Of course... we can't allow ourselves to fall into terror and violence...
dom paulo		You're right... but then how can we punish them? We can't lock them up...
salgado		You were right the first time, sir... they must hang... they were stealing the bread from our mouths... The captured Deserters look on helplessly as their lives are argued over.
young deserter		I didn't steal any bread... Gomes had the bread... he's off, in the forest...
dom paulo		Oh dear... Dom Paulo turns to the Priest. DOM PAULO What do you think, Father? The Priest throws open his arms noncommittally. PRIEST I'll comfort them whether they live or die, now or later, any of you, all of you... I'll comfort you all. SALGADO Hang them... you have to set an example...
deserter		I didn't steal any bread... 
deserter		It was Gomes... he told us to run.
dom paulo		I'll decide... no I won't... we'll all decide... most of the people that matter are here... we'll have a vote... who agrees with Salgado... and me... that they should die? A lot of hands go up. Hector hesitates, his instincts are not for killing. But the force of the majority weighs on him. He starts to raise his hand. At that moment, as he scans the crowd, he meets the eyes of the Deserter whose death they are voting on. For a moment they communicate. Hector is thrown. He drops his hand, only to find in the next instant the stern gaze of Salgado on him. He hesitates again, then starts to raise his hand. Then the eyes of the Deserter find him once more. This comic pantomime goes on while a solid majority of the crowd firmly raise their hands. DOM PAULO ... and those against death...
dom paulo		Very well... Da Cunha? 
dom paulo		The cross the carpenter is working on... tell him to turn it into a scaffold... have it erected along the beach, away from the women... the executions will be at sunrise tomorrow. Tell Father Diogo.
alvarez		I'll do it, Dom Paulo.
dom paulo		Thank you, Alvarez. Sunrise tomorrow. Send the Priest to them tonight.
hector		Thank you, Nuno. NUNO My mother ate three and she was sick. So try two... but she's sick anyway... maybe you can try three...
nuno		Lopo... the boy they're going to hang tomorrow... he was cook's cabin boy... I was going to take                       * him something to eat... I thought, perhaps, one of yours and one of mine... He looks at the fruit he has just given Hector. NUNO You said you might just eat two... HECTOR But there's tomorrow, Nuno... we must eat tomorrow too...
hector		Try not to think about Lopo any more... The guards wouldn't let you near him anyway.
hector		Goodnight!
hector		Some bread and raisins.
francisco		I thought everything was shared out on the raft...
hector		Well this wasn't. It's for her... and you. Francisco looks Hector straight  in the eye, looking for his angle. But this time there   is none. Hector is simply a lonely man seeking to  retrieve lost friendship. There is a glimmer of sympathy  in Francisco's face. 
hector		I must speak to her!
officer		Turtles' eggs, sir... Doctor Correa was shipping them to the Royal Zoo... I think they hoped some of them would hatch.
dom paulo		Well... it's eggs for supper tonight... for everyone...                             *
andre		The slaves only got three.    I want to ask you something.
hector		You were lucky. What? ANDRE I want my real name back. HECTOR You don't like Andre anymore?
andre		I think of my home all the time. I want to hear the name they call me. We should die with our real names. HECTOR We're not going to die, Andre... Hector smiles at his own insensitivity. HECTOR I've forgotten your name... ANDRE Ketabomago Pululo. HECTOR Now I remember why we called you Andre.
hector		Good night... Keta... ANDRE Ketabomago Pululo...
hector		Yes... good night... 
hector		Hey! Stop that, will you? Think of the older people, and the sick... I'll give you an egg if                         * you stop... here... *
dom paulo		How many eggs did you have? 
dom paulo		I had four.   I don't feel well now...
da cunha		Four's all right... the really ill ones had eaten eight, ten...
dom paulo		Let's not think about it... what                        * have you got?                                           *
hector		Stop that... leave her alone... get back to the camp... or I'll tell your mother... how can you play like this when there are people needing your help back there...? The Boy is standing now and fixing his clothing. He walks off back to the camp. The Girl remains sitting in the sand, buttoning her dress, too embarrassed even to raise her head to Hector.
hector		Come back... I didn't mean it... it was a joke... you come back... she's still here... I won't say anything... 
slave		... so that he will know that you were born like real people...
dom paulo		Right... you four as well...
slave		He wants to see you breathe. The King takes a deep breath, then nods to Dom Paulo. Dom Paulo and the Officers do as they are told. The King joins them, and for a few moments there is a kind of communion between them. Then everyone joins in. It is a            * strange, poignant moment, all the Natives and all the Europeans united in the simple act of breathing. Dom Paulo regains his composure.    He speaks to the Slave. DOM PAULO Tell him that we want to trade with him, to buy food... and we want him to guide us out of here... we have a long way to travel... to where the white men have their big ships... The Slave speaks to the King. The King listens and talks back for a long time. Then the Slave translates again. SLAVE He has heard of white men very,                       * very far away... this way... but you have to cross many rivers... twenty big rivers...
dom paulo		Tell him I want to give him these... Dom Paulo steps forward to the King. An Officer brings             * a wrapped cloth. Dom Paulo opens it, letting the King see the pieces of broken copper inside. * 
dom paulo		Of these precious things, which my fathers and forefathers have worn for many long years before...
slave		He will give you guides to help                        * you across the first of the big rivers... it is ten days from here... 
nuno		Thanks.
hector		I'm sorry about today... NUNO It doesn't matter... HECTOR But it does... it was mean of me... I was upset at something... I wasn't really angry at you... NUNO I know. Nuno is taking it rather well.      Hector regains his natural self-confidence.                                             * * HECTOR You don't think too badly of me? NUNO No... HECTOR You still like me? Nuno shyly nods his head. * HECTOR You do?
nuno		Yes.
hector		If you don't respect me, just say so...
dias		Confound you, Dom Paulo, that's an insult... she hit that rock because she was taking water and unsteerable... She was overloaded before she left India and you know it.... Dias pounds his fist on the table.
dias		I've told   you... we vote for a                         * leader or   you can walk into the jungle on   your own... it should have been   done days ago... DA CUNHA Calm down, Dias... you can't stay here forever, living on turtles' eggs... There are mock groans and laughter at the thought of it. The tension for the moment is broken.                                 * DA CUNHA What about the sick and the injured, Dom Paulo...?
father diogo		I'm going to search the scriptures tonight. I'm sure that God has an answer to it.
dias		An excuse, you mean... we'll be leaving them here to die...
salgado		Oh, so you're coming with us now, Dias! 
dias		After the vote... FATHER DIOGO It might be the best we can offer them now... the chance to die a good Christian death here, and set an example to the heathens...
francisco		Good night, Hector... Hector lingers.
hector		Where is Ursula? Sleeping? FRANCISCO Sick. She hasn't been able to rise since yesterday. * Hector's face expresses his shock. From what he has heard at the meeting this is serious news. He makes a decision. He speaks to Francisco, willing their old friendship back into existence in the urgency of the moment.
hector		Will you share a bottle of wine with me? I've had it since we left the ship... I want to drink it tonight, with you. This offer has found a chink in Francisco's armor.
francisco		You have a bottle of wine? 
francisco		Well, fetch it.
hector		Honeyed fruit. The last I have. Francisco can't believe such food still exits.       He smiles in anticipation. FRANCISCO You rogue... give it here...
hector		I brought it for Ursula... Francisco talks through his munching.
francisco		Much too rich for her... do you want to kill her?
hector		Surely... some fruit couldn't... 
nuno		No. 
hector		And afterwards... what will you do then?
nuno		Follow you and the others. HECTOR Alone?
father diogo		I'll comfort them as best as I can. DOM PAULO You're staying with them? Father Diogo hastens to correct this misunderstanding.
father diogo		No, no, I'll comfort them before we leave. I think my place is with you... Two sailors, like stagehands, enter and remove the table, leaving Dom Paulo and Father Diogo propless on the beach.
francisco		In you go. Hector goes into the hut, stooping low at the small entrance.
hector		Ursula... it's Hector.
hector		We're leaving soon. I've come to say goodbye...
hector		I won't forget you... I won't forget India... I can't forget how I hurt you...
ursula		Lisbon... HECTOR Yes... I'll pray for you in Lisbon... at the Cathedral... She lies still.       Hector lingers for a moment.   Then he speaks again. HECTOR I'm sorry I hurt your pride...
hector		Nothing, nothing... Ursula speaks one word, and then falls back into a dead faint. URSULA Idiot!
dom paulo		We won't forget you, or what you are doing for these poor people...
francisco		I'm not staying here with the intention of dying, Dom Paulo... we'll be following you... when we are fit and well...
dom paulo		Yes, of course...
francisco		... and good luck to you...                            * They make what they both know is their final parting.            * DOM PAULO God protect you... it breaks my                        * heart to leave you all here, but I don't know what else I can do. They shake hands. DOM PAULO We're leaving the cross with you... FRANCISCO Oh, thank you...
hector		Francisco, I must talk to you alone...
francisco		You've made your peace with her? 
francisco		Thank, God... Well, goodbye.                              *
hector		Is there anything that I can do for you? A letter... a message?                           * Francisco laughs softly.
francisco		No... if you were carrying                                * something for me I would have to worry about you... if you go empty-handed I can put you out of my mind! Hector smiles uncertainly, unsure if Francisco is making a joke. Then he becomes more serious. HECTOR I want to ask you something.                              * There's no easy way to do it... FRANCISCO Go on, Hector...
hector		Your boots... Francisco looks down at his boots.
francisco		What about them?
hector		Can I have them? You can have mine... they'll be fine for here... but I have to walk six hundred miles... Hector lifts a foot to show Francisco his boot. Francisco is stunned into silence. But then a smile comes to his                 * face.
francisco		Yes, you're right... I daresay                            * my boots would take you six hundred                       * miles... I look after them...
hector		Yes.
francisco		The best bootmaker in Goa... pray for my soul in Lisbon, Hector... and pray for your own...
hector		How long?
bobby		They've been gone a week, at least. HECTOR Damn them... BOBBY We're ten days late...
hector		It's Sandy's... whiskey... BOBBY Well done, my lad! Hector walks to the fire, pleased with     himself. Bobby unfolds his fist and looks at what he     has found, an Indian arrowhead with a few inches of     broken shaft. He folds his hand over it again, keeping     his secret. Behind them, nailed to a tree, is a plaque their companions have left. It reads, "Pennsylvania Boundary Expedition 1761, Marker 152." Also on the plaque someone has written, "We left here, 20th October."
bobby		Much too high. You won't find an Indian up here. We just have to keep our heads... no panic. HECTOR If you did find an Indian, what would he be?
bobby		You wouldn't... but he might be a Delaware if you did. HECTOR We keep working?
bobby		Why not. We can log the peaks on the far side, just a couple of sightings a day... keep us busy...
bobby		It's getting worse... you're nearly five minutes fast now... HECTOR I'm not fast... you're slowing down. They obviously have this tiff every morning. HECTOR What's the point of having two chronometers when you don't take the average? BOBBY Exactly... you should throw yours away. HECTOR You're unscientific, Bobby... at heart... Hector writes in the book.   He speaks pointedly.
hector		Seven twenty-five...
bobby		Let's get out of here.
hector		Did you see him?
bobby		Sure I saw him. HECTOR Was he a Delaware? BOBBY How the fuck should I know? He was an Indian... and Indians don't come in ones... HECTOR Yeah... I think he was an Indian too... What about the horse? BOBBY I'm not going back down there. HECTOR Don't panic, Bobby... BOBBY Why not? He runs off into the forest.        Then he turns and shouts to Hector.
bobby		Come on!
hector		An Indian... with long hair...
bobby		That's it... kind of short... HECTOR Yeah... he was't tall...
bobby		That's the one.
hector		Let's get a bit further up. They move off.     Bobby looks at Hector's backpack. BOBBY What've you got in there? HECTOR Some food, the logbooks, my letters, a candle...
bobby		A gun? HECTOR No.
bobby		We won't have a fire tonight. We should make a shelter though, in case it snows.
hector		What about bears, without a fire?
bobby		Don't even think about bears, Hector.
hector		It's not so funny now as it was.
hector		If you knew him... if you could picture him saying it... it would be funnier.
bobby		I had a father like you... nine months on a whaler and then three weeks at home telling us all how much he missed us... HECTOR I'm going home, for the winter...
bobby		I can't tell... a night like this it could carry for miles...
hector		I was saving it... you have it...
bobby		What do you mean, you were saving it? You know the rules... no hoarding, tobacco or food... you've listened to me for a month, day and night... wanting a smoke...
hector		Well have it now... I don't smoke... take it... BOBBY You've kept it from me, and you don't even use it... HECTOR I was saving it for my birthday... I was going to give it to you then... BOBBY I have to wait until your birthday for a smoke? Who are you... the fucking king? HECTOR Go on, smoke it... have it now... BOBBY I bloody won't... I'm not smoking on your command... I bloody won't. There is a brooding silence.
bobby		God,   your poor children... what do they   have to do for a piece of candy   in your house? It's very hard   to like you sometimes... d'you know   that? HECTOR I know, Bobby... but that's how I feel about you, too... that's why we're friends... we try hard... come on... smoke your pipe... 
bobby		No... I'll have it in the morning.
hector		Come on... tell me... who would you rather be sitting here with... have a think...
hector		So... where do you want to start?
bobby		Well... what about Alicia? HECTOR I'm sorry...
bobby		No... I'm sorry...
hector		What do you mean, you're sorry... I'm the one that has to apologize...
bobby		Oh no you're not... It will be a worthwhile night for both of them.
bobby		Isn't it a beautiful day? Hector finishes his writing, tears out the page from his book. He offers it to Bobby. HECTOR I've said who we are and where we're headed. Want to sign it, write anything? BOBBY No. HECTOR The peak we logged yesterday... I've named it Nathanial Mountain. After my boy... is that fine with you? BOBBY I was going to call it Tobacco Mountain... or Mount Alicia... but Nathaniel's fine... 
bobby		Let's get away from here. HECTOR North? BOBBY Yeah.    Keep the sun on our backs.
bobby		We can move quicker without the horse... we just have to keep moving... we have to get away from here. Behind them they don't see the figure moving from the cover of one tree to another, and then another figure following the first. They move like ghosts.
hector		What's wrong? BOBBY Quiet.   They're on the other side...
hector		Does it have to be bad?   They might be friendly...
bobby		They were chased here... They should be on the coast growing corn...
hector		Hold my hand, Bobby... They hold hands and run.
cameraman		Look here for a second, will you, Mr. Troup? REPORTER #1 Will you talk to us when you come out? 
detective		Come here, Troup. I'm Cobb.
hector		What? DETECTIVE Building warrant, license, fire certificate, sanitation certificate... I want them all... This is Mr. Santiago, from the city... insurance... 
detective		Slow down, Troup... so it's 3:15 on a Friday... you're staying here 'til Mr. Santiago gets the paperwork... get your partner over here, with everything... this is serious...
hector		3:35... MR. SANTIAGO I might have to close the place down.
hector		Where is she? The Detective and Hector walk down the hall. They stop at the door of the bathroom. Hector looks inside. There is a large ragged hole in the floor. At the far side of it the toilet unit dangles at a dangerous angle into the hole, held only by its plumbing. Firemen are working to secure it and what is left of the floor with metal props and hydraulic jacks. Lying on the floor below, surrounded by rubble, and being attended by the paramedics, is an old lady, MRS. PHILIPPOPOLIS. She tries to sit up when she sees Hector peering at her over the rim of the hole. She looks angry. MR. PHILIPPOPOLIS I phoned you Monday... I told you the floor was making noises... HECTOR Not me, Mrs. Philippopolis... my ex-partner... I think you spoke                          * to him... How are you feeling? Hector says this clearly, for the benefit of the Detective and Mr. Santiago. The Detecitve is unimpressed.
detective		Come back from there, Troup, the floor's still moving...
hector		Boris... why did you do this to me? Get down here now... they want all kinds of certificates... They won't let me leave the building... I have my kids tonight, I haven't seen them in four years... I did tell you, I've been talking about it all week... how come they phoned me, this isn't my building? What? Don't tell me anymore... I want you here, now... and on your knee... I'll phone the lawyer... but you move. My weekend's ruined before it's started.
santiago		You're going to have to check out                      * the whole building... you know that, don't you?
hector		Can I do it Monday?
santiago		Good joke... it'll take you a month. 
hector		Can I speak with Leonard, please... Mr. Deutsch? My name is Hector Troup, Borlonski and Troup, Real Estate... There is a moment's pause.
hector		Leonard... it's Hector... Borlonski and Troup... yes... listen, we've had a domestic accident at our Eighth Street building... a floor                     * ... and an old lady... she did mention the word sue, but it might have been hysterics... what I need to know is what certificates you have on file for the building... I                    * know it's Friday... just do one                       * thing... let me know if the insurance is current... I need to know that... I'm on my mobile... anything you have... before five ... thank you... During the call Hector has walked   down the hall and back to the hole in the floor. He sees    Mrs. Philippopolis, now strapped in a stretcher, being   carried out of the room below. At the sight of him,    she tries to sit up, straining on her straps.
hector		What? SON To the hospital...
hector		Well, I wasn't planning to...
son		You're not making a visit to the hospital? 
son		He's not coming to the hospital...
policeman		That's true.
boris		Yeah... we're covered for most things... the license is current, the inspection certificate is okay...
hector		What's with the we... it's your problem.
boris		How is she? HECTOR She's a witch... her   bones must be made of steel... she   didn't break a thing... it might   help if you make a visit to the   hospital... why did you do this   to me? BORIS I'm sorry, Hector... I   just put your name on the lousy   forms... I didn't plan this... I   just borrowed your name on   the titles. Hector doesn't let up on his anger.
hector		I told you to stop doing that... why does this keep happening to me... my name is mine... use your own name, Boris Borlonski... will you remember that? Boris Borlonski!
hector		You bring my bag? ANNA Yeah. Your camera's in there too. Take some photographs of the kids...
hector		Sure.   Thanks. ANNA Nervous?
hector		I'm glad you talked me into it. ANNA I didn't do much... you were ready... HECTOR You're right... you're absolutely right... I was ready... I am ready, for everything... I'm fixing all that shit with Boris... I told him... it can't go on... I want my freedom. Anna is looking at him amusedly, nodding her head with every earnest pronouncement that he makes.
hector		... and the kids... that'll work out... we can have them over sometimes... Yeah? ANNA Sure... that was the plan... when we have the space... HECTOR Right, when we have the space... when we get the bigger apartment... together... ANNA There you go... you said it... the bigger apartment together...
anna		You're a man of decision, Hector...
anna		Here's the address... just two blocks before the bridge... a five minute detour. It's a golden wedding... you have to... She looks him straight in the eye.
anna		We have to help each other...
anna		Oh, you'll need gas too... Go to it, Hector...
hector		Hello... Leonard, hello... yes... we're insured... thank God... yes now I know God's a lawyer... thanks... On the outskirts of Jersey City he finds the suburban street he is looking for. If the last crosslight holds on green then he might even make it on time. Hector stops the car outside Janet's house and lets out a sigh of relief.
hector		Why didn't you say? I could have fixed up something else. I thought it would be a good place to get to know them again...
janet		Well, I figured you should be                            * allowed to make your own mistakes. It's only for a couple of nights, they can take it... and you'll learn... Check into a hotel if it gets too much... they like hotels. She shouts into the house. JANET Come on, you two... your father's ready to go... She hands Hector a piece of paper.
janet		This is where we'll be, if anything crops up... thanks for the break... Hector gets a little scared about what he has taken on.
hector		Maybe this is a bit sudden for them... Maybe I should have come over a couple of nights and got to know them...
hector		Hi. They hardly lift their heads to him.
betsy		Hi. TOM Hi. Janet takes control of the farewells.
janet		You three have a good weekend. If it's too miserable at the house your father said he'll take you to a hotel. Hector nods his head obediently. He always did with Janet. The children let their mother pat them and follow Hector to his car, eyes to the ground.
janet		Good luck, Hector.
hector		Let's go.
hector		That's it! The last call... the weekend starts right now... we have things to do... look out for a Safeway... we need some supplies... and gas... oh my God, gas... soon... They return his look with blank expressions.        He picks up the phone and offers it to them.
hector		Want to make any calls?    Betsy? She shakes her head. HECTOR Tom? TOM No... and it's Thomas... HECTOR But we called you Tom... that's what it says on your birth certificate... THOMAS  I changed it. Hector wisely lets it go.
hector		Right... it's your name... you                            * can do that... Safeway... keep your                       * eyes skinned... and I could murder                        * a Chicken McNugget.                                       *
hector		What's wrong with that? It's a kitchen roll... why can't I pick a kitchen roll?
betsy		Ugh! Why don't you ask us what we like... it'll save you money... you buy junk, we won't eat it... A trace of girlish common sense has crept into her voice. Hector warms to her.
hector		You're right.
hector		Well, get to it... I'll just tag along...
thomas		She does. She tells us what to eat. We let her.
hector		Can I just keep a couple of those steaks? We can't live on chicken.                   *
betsy		Get me the books... all the books... all of the books... no, no, no... not the pancakes... not the pancakes... no... She changes in an instant from a bossy adolescent to a tearful, crumpled little girl. She sobs pitifully.
betsy		... not the pancakes...
hector		How about some eggs? They shake their heads.
betsy		How many have you got in there?
hector		Three.   Is that all right? BETSY For a week, maybe.
hector		I thought we could walk into town this morning. I saw the Funfair when we came through last night. THOMAS We don't go to Funfairs.
hector		Let's take the walk anyway.
thomas		I brought some books.   I want to stay home and read. Hector is determined to make it work.
hector		No.   We're taking a walk.
thomas		It's going to rain... we should stay.
hector		Here's an umbrella... and there must be some old coats in here... and shoes... I only have these I'm wearing... THOMAS Donald has some shoes...
hector		Six years ago. Look at that... What's this?
betsy		The last two.
hector		Let's have a ride... He has stopped at some dated space rockets.
betsy		The seats are wet. Hector triumphs. He pulls a wad of kitchen roll from his pocket and starts to wipe the seats. 
hector		How do we land these things?
hector		Sure you won't have a pancake,                          * Betsy?                                                  * Betsy gets impatient.                                                *
betsy		What he means is why did you stay away?
hector		Well, that's a fair question... your mother and I got divorced... you're big enough to remember... she must have told you all that? BETSY Sure she has... but lots of people get divorced... that doesn't mean they disappear... HECTOR You're right... what can I tell you... I went kind of crazy after that, for a good while... I came around a few times... remember? THOMAS Not really. HECTOR Well, it wasn't easy... everything with her and Donald happened pretty quickly. I missed you both really badly... but for a while I thought I should stay away, until your mother got settled... no, that's not really true... I missed you... but I was kind of crazy at the same time... your mother and I married young... I wasn't used to the freedom... it went to my head ... then you moved to New Jersey. 
thomas		What for?
hector		We were doing government work, big contracts... there were some temptations... my boss asked me to shuffle a few papers... there was a lot of money in it... I had to testify against him... it was like killing somebody.
hector		You did?
thomas		We didn't even know when you got out.
hector		Yes. We rent apartments... but we want to get into commercial property... people are a nuisance... does that sound bad? Betsy shrugs her shoulders. BETSY How should I know? Hector carries on with his story. HECTOR Just recently I've been feeling good, things have been going well... and I missed you two... so here we are... BETSY What about your girl friend? HECTOR Who told you about her?
betsy		Nobody.
hector		Anna... she's nice... she wants to meet you, real soon... she sells flowers... well, you know that... and on Monday she's probably going to kill me...
betsy		Well, if people don't tell you things... HECTOR She's right, Thomas... people should talk more. THOMAS So you haven't been staying away because of us?
hector		What do you mean? Is that what you thought? I was avoiding you two? No... you mustn't think that... that's terrible... They have almost exhausted themselves in this first bout of talking. Hector looks out at the sea.
hector		The rain's off. Let's go.
betsy		I have to ask you something else.
hector		Go on. 
hector		I didn't leave because it was two days before your test... it was just what your mother and I decided... I taught you how to swim... we went to the pool twice a week... why would I leave? BETSY I know... that's what I mean... why did you leave just then? Hector looks at Betsy. She is beginning to cry silently. He puts a tentative arm around her shoulder. HECTOR Oh, God, Betsy. I'm sorry.
hector		How did you do, in the test? BETSY I passed. Hector leaves his limp arm on her shoulder. It is too                * soon for gestures of emotion. After a long moment she speaks. BETSY I'm a life-saver now.
hector		Hey, Thomas! We're going home... we're having a barbecue... Betsy said she'll even let me eat a steak!
hector		Don't call him Tom, he doesn't like it.
betsy		I'm allowed. Somehow Hector is touched by this.
hector		Your mother said it, when we split up... don't lose the children... didn't mean much at the time. But she was right.
betsy		Who said I'd let you eat a steak? There is a silence.      Then Hector speaks. HECTOR Betsy.    On Monday will you come with me   when I take the flowers back to   Anna? I can't face her alone.    She wants to meet you anyway.
betsy		Sure. HECTOR You'll be there, right beside me? BETSY I'd have to take the morning off school. HECTOR Is that bad?
betsy		No, that could be good...
hector		Just tell them you were with your invisible dad.
betsy		What's she like? How did you meet her?
hector		The funny thing is I fell in love with her before I ever saw her... I smelled her... It was the day I got out of jail... I was on the train and she was sitting behind me... it was just this incredible perfume... remember I'd been inside for nearly two years with four hundred sweating males... She got off the train and I followed her... I couldn't help it... that's how good she is... she listened to a bum who followed her off a train... Betsy looks at him kindly. HECTOR ... but she's still going to kill me on Monday...
hector		I remember when you two were tiny.. I used to watch you sleeping... it was like now... I felt close to you, could touch you... but you weren't there... you were gone... dreamland ... just when I was closest to you, you weren't there... I felt it last night, too.
betsy		That's what it's like... you should know that.
betsy		No... we can do that...
hector		Who are you?   Who's inside there? BETSY You'll never know. Future generations of women are going to be just as unknowable to our Hectors as past ones were. Betsy moves off briskly along the beach. Hector trails after her, hooked.
betsy		I thought he was taller. 
hector		Come on in, kids... that boat doesn't look too safe... They call back to him. BETSY We're fine! Hector tries to relax, but he doesn't have the confidence yet, or something. He is edgy.
hector		I've just found you... I don't want to lose you. What would I tell your mother... come on in...
betsy		Why does it always go so fast...? Thomas is laughing at her. He has seen    her attempt this before. Hector has other concerns. He     is trying to light his barbecue. Match after match    disappears into his elaborate stone structure, only to   fizzle out.
hector		I'd forgotten that... how you eat... dedicated... like it's your religion!
thomas		Things I like.
thomas		Hey, so I did... I'd forgotten about that...
hector		There she is... old Mercury... THOMAS No... Mercury doesn't rise 'til after midnight... that's Jupiter... Hector is impressed by his son.
hector		I'd forgotten... we used to watch                        * the stars... you could tell me the                       * names of all the planets... you                          * could recite them like a poem... remember... at the tiny window upstairs in the old house? THOMAS No. HECTOR Oh well, not to worry. I'm glad you still like astronomy though. THOMAS I'm not into star-gazing so much ... we're working on computer modelling... we're trying to make a biosphere...
hector		Uh-huh? THOMAS A self-sustaining life system... for inter-stellar travel. But we always get a methane build up, it doesn't matter what we do... 
thomas		Yeah. We're making such a mess of the world, one day we're going to have to take off for somewhere else... HECTOR Sounds like Donald said that...
hector		Well, I'm glad you two are thinking about the old planet. I'm proud of you. Look how beautiful everything is. Sometimes I think it's people that make it all wrong... we walk around with all our problems...
betsy		Wait a minute... I know... the whole universe is inside a speck of dust that's lying in a ball of fluff in the cuff of a pair of pants hanging over the back of a chair...
hector		No... I'll tell you... the whole thing... stars and everything... is sitting on the skin of a bubble of milk in a bowl of cornflakes... and somebody's just about to eat it... The three of them are laughing now. BETSY Skimmed milk...
thomas		You don't get bubbles in skimmed milk... HECTOR Okay... it's half-and-half... Perhaps that's just about as close as Hector and his                * tribe of humans will ever come to working it all out. But they try.                                                       * BETSY I've got a better one... we're all inside a speck of pollen that's stuck to the wing of a bee while it sits on a flower...
hector		Don't mention flowers, Betsy... please, not tonight.
****Dialogues from script :Being_John_Malkovich.txt****

lotte		Sorry, hon. I didn't know Orrin Hatch was out of his pen. Good morning.
craig		Morning.
lotte		Gotta run. Shipment of grub worms coming in first thing.
craig		Enjoy.
lotte		Craig, listen, honey, I've been thinking... maybe you'd feel better if you got, you know, a job or something.
craig		We've been over this. Nobody's looking for a puppeteer in today's wintry economic climate.
lotte		Well, you know, maybe something else until this whole puppet thing turns around.
craig		 The Great Mantini doesn't need a day job.
lotte		 Well, grub worms are waiting. Do me a favor?
craig		What?
lotte		Would you check in on Elijah? He seems to be a little under the weather this morning.
craig		Which one is Elijah again?
lotte		The monkey.
craig		Yeah. Okay.
tv announcer		The crowd is enthralled as Derek Mantini, arguably the greatest puppeteer in the history of the world, performs "The Belle of Amherst" with his 60 foot Emily Dickinson puppet, directed by the inimitable Charles Nelson Reilly.
craig		Gimmicky bastard.
lotte		 Is the trial date set?
craig		May 11th.
lotte		Why'd you do it, Craig?
craig		I'm a puppeteer.
lotte		 Why, Craig. why?
craig		 I... puppeteer.
lotte		 You know, maybe you should speak to someone about this.
craig		Uh. yeah.
craig		Thank you.
floris		Welcome to LesterCorp. May we meet your filing needs?
craig		No, uh, my name is Craig Schwartz. I have an interview with Mr. Lester.
floris		Please have a seat, Mr. Juarez...
craig		Schwartz.
floris		Pardon?
craig		Schwartz.
floris		I'm sorry, I'm afraid I have no idea what you're saying right now.
craig		My name is Schwartz.
floris		Money, Miss Warts?
craig		Forget it.
floris		 Fork ah did?
floris		 Mr. Juarez?
craig		Yes?
floris		Yex?
craig		I said "yes."
floris		You suggest what? I have no time for piddling suggestions from mumbling job applicants, my good man. Besides, Dr. Lester will see you now. I think that's what he said.
lester		Come in, Mr. Juarez. I'd stand, but, well, you know.
craig		 Actually, my name is Craig Schwartz, Dr. Lester.
lester		Security.
craig		No, it's okay, sir. Just a mixup with your secretary.
lester		She's not my secretary. She's what they call an executive liaison, and I'm not banging her, if that's what youre implying.
craig		Not at all, Dr. Lester. I simply misspoke.
lester		Tell me, Dr. Schwartz, what do you feel you can bring to LesterCorp?
craig		Well, sir, I'm an excellent filer.
lester		 You think so, eh? Which comes first, L or... Glooph?
lester		Forget it.
lester		 Fine woman, Floris. I don't know how she puts up with this damn speech impediment of mine.
craig		You don't have a speech impediment, Dr. Lester.
lester		Flattery will get you everywhere, my boy. But I'm afraid I have to trust Floris on this one. You see, she has her doctorate in speech impedimentology from Case Western. Perhaps you've read her memoirs, "I can't understand a word any of you are saying."
craig		No.
lester		Pity, it tells it like it is. That's why the eastern, read Jewish, publishing establishment won't touch it. That's a quote from the book jacket. George Will, I think.  I apologize if you can't understan a word I'm saying, Dr. Schwartz.
craig		No. I understand perfectly.
lester		 Thank you for being kind enough to lie. You see, I've been very lonely in my isolated tower of indecipherable speech. You're hired. Any questions?
craig		Just one. Why is this floor so short?
lester		Low overhead, m'boy. We pass the savings on to you.  But seriously, that's all covered in orientation.
wendy		Hello, Don.
don		Hello. Wendy.
wendy		Don, I was wondering, do you know why our workplace has such low ceilings?
don		It's an interesting story, Wendy. Many years ago in the late 1800's, James Mertin, an Irish ship captain looking to invest in the future of our great country, came to this town and decided to erect an office building.
mertin		Enter ye, if ye dare enter.
tiny woman		Captain Mertin?
mertin		What want ye, girl child?
tiny woman		I am not a child, Captain Mertin, but rather an adult lady of miniature proportions.
mertin		 I see. Well, it is not my fault that thou art tiny. So if it is charity yer after, then be gone with ye, ye foul demon.
tiny woman		I am not asking for alms, but rather the ear of a kind man with a noble heart.
mertin		 Aye. Speak then if ye must.
tiny woman		Captain Mertin, surely I am a God-fearing Christian woman like yourself, but alas, I am afraid that the world was not built with me in mind. Door knobs are too high, chairs are unwieldy, high-ceilinged rooms mock my stature. Nor am I a marrie lady, Captain. after all, who would marry a person of my diminutiveness? So I am forced to work for my few pennies a week as an optometrist. Why cannot there be a place for me to work safe and comfortable?
mertin		Woman, your story moves me like n other. Me own sister was tiny and then died. Therefore, I shall make ye me wife. And I shall build a floor in my building, between the 7th and 8th, which will be scaled down, so from now on there shall be at least one place on God's green Earth that you and your accursed kind can live in peace...
don		So that's the story of 7 1/2. Since the rents are considerably lower this floor has been adopted by businesses which for one reason or another are forced to cut corners After all... the overhead is low! Ha ha ha!
wendy		Ha ha ha!
craig		Moving story.
maxine		Yes. Unfortunately it's bullshit. The real story of 7 1/2 is so evil that it could never be revealed to Americans raised on sitcoms and happy news anchors.
craig		Is that true?
maxine		Well, truth is for suckers, isn't it?.
craig		Listen. I'm Craig Schwartz, just starting out at LesterCorp.
maxine		How dreary - to be - Somebody / How public - like a Frog / To tell one's name - the livelong June / To an admiring Bog!
craig		 Emily Dickinson.
maxine		I wouldn't know.
parrot		Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
craig		Shut up!
lotte		 Sorry, honey.
parrot		Sorry honey. Sorry honey.
lotte		 Sorry!
lotte		Isn't that cute? I just taught her that.
craig		Adorable. What time are they supposed to be here?
lotte		Seven-ish
craig		We have to make it an early night.
lotte		They'll understand. Besides I've got a morning appointment tomorrow with Elijah's shrink. We're getting to the bottom of this acid stomach.
craig		 Hmmm.
lotte		Some sort of childhood trauma, she thinks. Possible feelings of inadequacy as a chimp. Interesting, huh?
craig		Hmmm.
peter		Good food, Lotte.
lotte		Thanks. Craig helped, too, by the way.
peter		Vegetarian, right?
lotte		Yes. All vegetable. all the time.
peter		Amazing.
craig		No kidding, Peter.
gloria		That's great. It almost sounds like make-believe.  So Lotte, when you say all vegetable, do you mean all vegetable entire1y?
gloria		Lotte told me that Eskimos have a lot of words for snow.
peter		How many?
gloria		Ten, I think.
peter		I wonder why so many.
gloria		Because they have a lot of snow. Isn't that interesting?
floris		You're good.
craig		 Thank you, Floris.
floris		You're not like the other boys we've had here. Granted, I can't understand what you're saying either, but your soft palette resonates tremendously well and you never ever constrict your epiglottis.
craig		I am a trained performer.
floris		 Music to my ears! Whatever you said. Speak, speak, speak, my magnificent friend, speak!
craig		Hello again.
maxine		Yes, well...
craig		You know, I've been thinking about what you said yesterday, about the orientation film being a cover-up. I think you're on to something.
maxine		And fifty other lines to get into a girl's pants.
craig		No, really.
maxine		You know, if you ever got me, you wouldn't have a clue what to do with me. That's the thing, Romeo.
lotte		New puppet?
craig		Yeah, just an idea I had.
lotte		She's very beautiful.
craig		 Just an idea I had.
craig		 I would too know what to do with you.
floris		Oh, what magic those fingers could work on the right cabinet.  Alphabetize me, baby. And don't forget, I comes before U.
craig		Floris, you're very nice, but I'm afraid Im in love with somebody else.
floris		 I'm afraid I... have no idea what you are saying... you bastard!
lester		Don't toy with Floris, Schwartz. Why, if I were eighty years younger, I'd box your ears.
craig		I wasn't toying with her, sir. I was just... How old are you?
lester		One hundred and five. Carrot juice.  Lot's of it. I swear, it's almost not worth it. I piss orange. Oh, and I, have to piss sitting down... like a godamn girly... every fifteen minutes. But nobody wants to die, Schwartz.
craig		I'll keep that in mind, sir.
lester		No sir-e-bob, I don't die. But what I do is get older, wrinkled like a former plum that's become the wrinkled prune you see before you. Oh, to be a young man again, maybe then Floris would care for me.
craig		The elderly have so much to offer, sir. They are our link with history.
lester		I don't want to be your godamn link, damn you. I want to feel Floris' naked thighs against my own. I want to know passion. I want my body to inspire lust in that beautiful, complex woman. I want her to shiver in a spasm of ecstasy when I penetrate her. Oh, God, the agony of the flesh, Schwartz.
craig		Dr. Lester, while I am flattered that you share your feelings with me, I believe perhaps the workplace is not the most suitable environment for this type of discussion.
lester		All right. Meet me at the Juicy-Juice Juice Bar after work today and I'll spill my goddamn guts for you.
craig		Shit.
craig		 I won't be late. I just have to listen to Lester's sexual fantasies and drink carrot juice for a little while. It's a job thing.
maxine		What?
craig		I just wanted to say hi.  Did you know I still don't know your name or where you work?
maxine		Yeah.
craig		How about this, if I can guess your first name within three tries, you have to come out for a drink with me tonight.
maxine		Why not?
craig		Great.  Buuuhhppaahhhhnnn. . . . . Muhhhahhhhh. . . . . ahhhnnnaaa. . nollltuuukkkaaaaralllll. . . tashabararassssssuuuuusaaaaaaa. . . nnnnnnnaaaaaannnnnnnnncccccceeeeeee Mwaaaaaa. . . . .Mahhhhhkkkkk. . . sssseeeeeen. Maxine?
maxine		Who told you?
craig		I'm right?
maxine		Who told you?
craig		That's incredible! Nobody told me! I swear! It's kismet. Maxine! It's a beautiful name. There's a psychic connection. Don't you see? It was meant to be! Maxine! Maxine! Maxine! I will shout it from the rooftops!
maxine		Somebody told you.
craig		Oh, Maxine, nobody told me. Maxine, Maxine. It just came out of me like a song, Maxine. A beautiful crazy, song, Maxine. Maxine. Maxine!
maxine		I am dubious, but I don't welsh. Meet me at The Stuck Pig. Seven o'clock. You're late, I walk. So help me, if I find out you cheated.
craig		 Maxine.
lester		Imagine a room full of women. Nubile, blonde, wet with desire, Schwartz. A harem, if you will. Me in leather. A harness, if you like. I am the object of this desire, and all eyes are on me as I speak. Ladies, I begin. I am the love god, Eros. I intoxicate you. My spunk is to you manna from heaven...
craig		 Dr. Lester, it's been really fascinating, but I'm afraid I have to get home to my wife now.
lester		Wife, huh? I'd love to meet her, Craig.
craig		Yessir.
lester		Shall we say dinner on Friday. Just the two of us?  You can come too if you like, Schwartz.
craig		 That's sounds fine, sir. Gotta run.
craig		Made it. Maxine. Maxine, Maxine, Maxine.
maxine		Just.
craig		Buy you a drink, Maxine?
maxine		You married?
craig		Yeah. But enough about me.
maxine		 The usual, Barry.
craig		 I'll have, like, a beer. Like a Budweiser, or something.
maxine		My tits?
craig		No, no, it's your energy or your attitude or the way you carry yourself or...
maxine		Christ, you're not a fag are you? Because I don't want to be wasting my time.
craig		That's the usual?
maxine		Dont let the girly shit fool you. It'd blow your shorts off.
craig		Im not a homosexual. I just like women for more than their bodies. I guess you could say I'm the new American male.
maxine		You're a fag or a liar.
craig		 I mean, I am really attracted to you.
maxine		 I mean, I am really attracted to you. Jesus, you are a fag. We can share recipes, if you like, Darlene.
craig		 I love your tits. I want to fuck you.
maxine		 Not a chance.
craig		Well, I'm a puppeteer...
maxine		 Check.
craig		Hi.
lotte		Hi.
craig		 Sorry, I'm so late. Lester just wouldn't let me go. Were supposed to have dinner with him on Friday. I can get us out of it if you want. He's really amazing, this insane old lech. It's actually sort of amusing when you get past just how disgusting it is.
lotte		Did you eat?
craig		Nah. I'm not hungry. I'm sorry I didn't call. It was just, you know, hard to get away.
lotte		I was worried.
craig		I'm sorry. How was your evening?
lotte		Tom-Tom's puncture wound is infected.
craig		The ferret?
lotte		The iguana.
craig		Right.
lotte		I dressed the wound. Then I've just been feeding everyone, putting everyone to bed.
craig		Yeah. You want a beer?
lotte		No thanks. I'm going to turn in.
craig		All right. I'll be in my workshop for a little while. I'll be in in a little while. I need to unwind a little.  I'll be in soon. A little while.
lotte		'kay.
craig		 It's good in here, Craig. Better than your wildest dreams.
craig		Hi.
maxine		You're not someone I could get interested in. Craig. You play with dolls.
craig		 Puppets. Maxine. It's the idea of being inside someone else, feeling what they feel, seeing what they see...
maxine		Yikes.
craig		Please, let me explain.
craig		It's just, and I've never done this before, Maxine, but it's just that I feel something for you. I've never felt this before for anyone, not even my wife. My future is with you, Maxine.
maxine		You might want to check those tarot cards one more time.
craig		Another evil secret of the 7 1/2 floor.
craig		Holy shit. Maxine is gonna love this.
lester		Yes?
craig		Dr. Lester. . .
lester		Ah, Craig. Just the fellow I wanted to see.  Juicer! Easy as pie. Just keep your fingers clear of the blade, and never, never use it while bathing in a tub full of water.
craig		Dr. Lester, I have a question. I was in that vacant office down the hall and I stumbled upon a little door and....
lester		Ah. yes, the little door.  There is a short film on the little door in the orientation room in exactly two minutes. If you hurry, you'll just make it.
craig		Thank you, sir.
don		Hi. Wendy! What're you up to in this vacant office.
wendy		Well, Don, I peeked in here, even though I know it's against floor policy. and I discovered that there's a little tiny door in here. Isn't it cute? It's almost like a little dolly's door. I wonder what its for.
don		 That's right, Wendy, it is against floor policy, but as long as you're here, let me tell you what I know about our cute little door friend. Many years ago, this very office was occupied by a kindly old watchmaker named Mr. White.
white		Hmmm. I must have a small store room to store my merchandise when I am through working on it. I know, I will build a tiny store room. How cute!
wendy		Wow! That's some story, Don.
don		Truth is stranger than fiction, Wendy!
craig		Bullshit.
maxine		The puppeteer told me he loves me today.  I know. I can't think of anything more pathetic.
cabbie		Say, aren't you that actor guy?
malkovich		Yeah.
cabbie		John Makel...
cabbie		Mapplethorpe?
cabbie		Malkovich!
cabbie		Yeah. I liked you in that one movie.
cabbie		The one where you're that jewel thief.
malkovich		I never played a jewel thief.
cabbie		Who am I thinking of?
malkovich		I don't know.
cabbie		I'm pretty sure it was you. Hey, could I get your autograph now? It's for .... oh, what the hell, it's for me! I'm your biggest fan!
malkovich		Yeah, okay.
maxine		Absolutely, doll. I'm just about to close up here.
craig		Don't you want to know what happened to me?
maxine		 No.
craig		This is important!
maxine		 It better be.
craig		There's a tiny door in that empty office. It's a portal, Maxine. It takes you inside John Malkovich. You see the world through John Malkovich's eyes, then, after about fifteen minutes, you're spit out into a ditch on the side of The New Jersey Turnpike.
maxine		Sounds delightful. Who the fuck is John Malkovich?
craig		He's an actor. One of the great American actors of the 20th century.
maxine		What's he been in?
craig		Lots of things. He's very well respected. That jewel thief movie, for example. The point is that this is a very odd thing, supernatural, for lack of a better word. It raises all sorts of philosophical questions about the nature of self, about the existence of the soul. Am I me? Is Malkovich Malkovich? Was the Buddha right, is duality an illusion? Do you see what a can of worms this portal is? I don't think I can go on living my life as I have lived it. There's only one thing to do. Let's get married right away.
maxine		Is this Malkovich fellow appealing?
craig		Yes, of course. He's a celebrity.
maxine		Good. We'll sell tickets.
craig		Tickets to Malkovich?
maxine		Exactly. Two hundred dollars a pop.
craig		But there's something profound here, Maxine, we can't exploit it.
maxine		Fine. I'll do it myself. I was going to offer a partnership to you, but this way it's more money for me.
craig		You wanted to be partners with me?
maxine		 Sure. It'd be fun.
craig		 But, Maxine, can of worms! End of the world! Illusory nature of existence!
maxine		I'll protect you, Dollface.
craig		 Oh. Maxine.
lotte		Don't be ridiculous. There is no such thing as a portal into someone else's brain.
craig		Brain. soul, I'm telling you, Lotte. I was right inside him looking out. We're going to be rich.
lotte		I want to try.
craig		What?
lotte		I want to be John Malkovich. Tomorrow morning. Plus I'd like to meet this partner of yours.
craig		 Well, you know we're going to be very busy tomorrow. I'll tell you what. Let's do it tonight. Right now.
lotte		Now?
craig		Yeah. We'll do it right now. On the way to Lester's house.
craig		I'll meet you on the turnpike.
lotte		I'm scared.
craig		Me too, babe.
lotte		I have to go back.
craig		Okay. Maybe tomorrow.
lotte		I have to go back now.
craig		We'll talk about it in the car.
lotte		I have to go back, Craig. Being inside did something to me. All of a sudden everything made sense. I knew who I was.
craig		You weren't you. You were John Malkovich.
lotte		 Take me back, Craig.
craig		Tomorrow. We're late for Lester.
lester		Tell me, Lotte, can you understand a word I'm saying?
lotte		Yes, of course, Dr. Lester.
lester		Oh, be still my heart.
lotte		Dr. Lester, would you point me toward the restroom?
lester		With immense pleasure, my dear. Down that hall, ninth door on the left. Watch the step down. It's sunken, you know.
craig		Dr. Lester...
lester		More beet-spinach juice, my friend?
craig		No thank you sir. It's delicious, though. I just wanted to thank you for the opportunity to work at LesterCorp, but I'm afraid I'm going to have to tender my resignation effectively immediately.
lester		I see. Are you unhappy at our little company?
craig		No sir, not at all. It's just that I'm going to open my own business and...
lester		And what sort of business will this be? If you don't mind my asking.
craig		Uh, import-export. Olive oil. Right on 7 1/2 actually.  In the vacant office. So we'll still be seeing each other.
lester		The vacant office. I see. Olive oil. Interesting. Be warned, Schwartz, there are certain doors which should never be opened.
craig		My kingdom for your portal, Maxine.
maxine		Okay. Here it is.  Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding. Only two hundred dollars for fifteen minutes. Visit J.M. Inc., Mertin-Flemmer Building. etc., etc.
craig		Sounds good. Oblique but intriguing. Phone it in.
craig		Lotte! Why aren't you at the pet shop?
lotte		Fuck pets. Is this your partner? I had to come back and do the Malkovich ride again. Fuck everything else. Is this her?
maxine		 Hi, are you Craig's wife?
lotte		Yes, Hi.
craig		Lotte, Maxine. Maxine, Lotte.
lotte		Hi. Have you done Malkovich yet?
maxine		Hi, uh.  Hi. I wanted to place an ad. Yes. "Ever want to be someone else?" No, that's the ad, but let's talk about you in a minute. "Ever want to be someone else? Now you can. No kidding..."
craig		 Why aren't you at work?
lotte		I've been going over and over my experience last night. It was amazing.  I've decided I'm a transsexual. Isn't that the craziest thing?
craig		What, are you nuts? That's Oprah talking.
lotte		Everything felt right for the first time. I need to go back to make sure, then if the feeling is still there. I'm going to speak to Dr. Feldman about sexual reassignment surgery.
craig		This is absurd. Besides Feldman's an allergist. If you're going to do something, do it right.
lotte		Don't stand in the way of my actualization as a man, Craig.
maxine		 Let her go, Craig. I mean him."
craig		 I'll pick you up.
maxine		You better hurry. Traffic.
malkovich		 So you believe in God... you got something for it? You worked for all the capitalists. You harvested the fruit from your labor? You got God!
malkovich		But the past comforts you? The present smiles on you, yes?
malkovich		Who's calling?
malkovich		How'd you get this number?
malkovich		Listen, this is not amusing. Please don't call here any...
craig		How was it?
lotte		I have to go back tonight. At eight Exactly.
craig		Why?
lotte		Don't crowd me, Craig.
guy		Excuse me, are you John Malkovich?
malkovich		Yes.
guy		Wow. You were really great in that movie where you played that retard.
malkovich		Thank you very much.
guy		I just wanted to tell you that. And say thank you. I have a cousin that's a retard, so, as you can imagine, it means a lot to me to see retards portrayed on the silver screen so compassionately.
maxine		Hi. I'm so glad you decided to come. I'm Maxine.
malkovich		I'm John. I didn't think I was going to come, but I felt oddly compelled. I have to admit I was a bit intrigued by your voice.
maxine		And the funny thing is. Mr. Malkovich, my voice is probably the least intriguing thing about me.
malkovich		Can I get you a drink?
maxine		Whatever you're having.
craig		So how was it? What was he doing?
lotte		Oh, you know, not a lot. Just hanging around his apartment. I think he must be a lonely man.
craig		You see, men can feel unfulfilled, too. I'm glad you're realizing that. You shouldn't be so quick to assume that switching bodies would be the answer to all your problems.
lotte		You're right. You know I was thinking that we should have Maxine over for dinner. Since you two are partners and all. It might be a nice gesture.
craig		I don't know. There's some tension between us. I'd hate to expose you to that.
lotte		It'll be okay. I'll fix my lasagna. Well smoke a joint.  Tensions will melt away.
lotte		 Did you know that Eskimos have not one, but fifty words for snow. It's because they have so much of it.
craig		After dinner I'll show you my puppets.
maxine		Ah.
lotte		After that I'll introduce you to my favorite monkey, Elijah. He's got an ulcer, due to a suppressed childhood trauma. But we're getting to the bottom of it.  Psychotherapy.
maxine		 The way I see it, the world is divide into those go after what they want and those who don't. The passionate ones, the ones who go after what they want, may not get what they want, but they remain vital, in touch with themselves, and when they lie on their deathbeds, they have few regrets. The ones who don't go after what they want... well, who gives a shit about them anyway?
craig		You?
maxine		Craig, I just don't find you attractive. And, Lotte, I'm smitten with you, but only when you're in Malkovich. When I looked into his eyes last night, I could feel you peering out. Behind the stubble and the too-prominent brow and the male pattern baldness, I sensed your feminine longing peering out, and it just slew me.
craig		 My God.
maxine		 No hard feelings, partner.
lotte		I want a divorce.
craig		 Come in!
erroll		Hello, I'm here about the ad.
craig		Please, have a seat.
erroll		When you say, I can be somebody else, what do you mean exactly?
craig		Exactly that. We can put you inside someone else's body for fifteen minutes.
erroll		Oh, this is just the medical breakthrough I've been waiting for. Are their any side effects? Please say no! Please say no!
maxine		No.
erroll		Long term psychic or physiological repercussions?
maxine		No. Don't be an ass.
erroll		Can I be anyone I want?
maxine		You can be John Malkovich.
erroll		Well that's perfect. My second choice. Ah, this is wonderful. Too good to be true! You see, I'm a sad man. Sad and fat and alone. Oh, I've tried all the diets, my friends. Lived for a year on nothing but imitation mayonnaise. Did it work? You be the judge. But Malkovich! King of New York! Man about town! Most eligible bachelor! Bon Vivant! The Schopenhauer of the 20th century! Thin man extraordinaire!
maxine		Two hundred dollars, please.
erroll		Yes. Yes. A thousand times, yes!
erroll		Oh, thank you! Thank you! Thousand times, thank you!
craig		 Tell your friends.
erroll		Oh, I will, and I have many, many friends and associates, my friend. All, by the way, in Overeaters Anonymous. All of them fat and alone like me, all of them dream of being someone else, all of them with John Malkovich as their second choice!
craig		This is amazing! We're gonna be rich!
maxine		So unbolt the fucking door, Einstein.
lester		You're making a big mistake, Schwartz.  Ma'am
craig		Dr. Lester, I don't know what you're talking about.
lester		There are rules, boy, procedures, etiquette. This is not a toy. I've been waiting seventy years to utilize this room, grooming myself, quietly setting the stage, performing ablutions, paying tribute, seeing all his motion pictures again and again. Worshipping, Schwartz, worshipping properly.
craig		You're insane.
lester		I am not alone. There are others. We are legion. You will pay for this blasphemy. You will pay dearly.
maxine		Crackpot.
lester		May I have your attention, please. We have a new disciple among us tonight.
lester		She is the wife of Schwartz.
lotte		 I'm getting divorced.
lester		No you mustn't, my child.
lotte		But why, Son of Malkovich?
lester		We need you on the inside, my child. To report on his comings and goings, and if need be, to... destroy him...  ...for lack of a better word.
lotte		What are you doing?
craig		I'm moving. Remember? What's with the hooded cloak?
lotte		Nothing. Don't go, Craig. I've been thinking. Let's try to work this out. We've got so much history.
craig		 You should feed your animals. They're looking peaked.
lotte		I'm getting rid of the fucking animals.
craig		What?
lotte		I'm getting rid of the animals. I've lost interest. Besides, they're standing between you and me.
craig		No they're not.
lotte		You've always hated the animals.
craig		You've always loved the animals.
lotte		I'm giving them up. I've changed. I've found a new focus.
craig		What's that?
lotte		 Us, of course.
craig		 Oh, Lot...
lotte		Fuck Maxine.
craig		We wish.
maxine		Yes?
maxine		When?
maxine		Thanks so much for coming over.
malkovich		Oh, I'm really glad you called.
maxine		So, do you enjoy being an actor?
malkovich		Oh sure. It's very rewarding...
maxine		I love you, Lotte.
malkovich		 I'm sorry, did you just call me "Lotte"?
maxine		Do you mind?
malkovich		 No, I guess not. I'm an actor.
maxine		Oh, my sweet, beautiful Lotte.
malkovich		 Yes, Maxine, yes.
craig		You were him last night, weren't you?
lotte		 Yes.
craig		And he was with her.
lotte		We love her, Craig. I'm sorry.
craig		We?
lotte		Me and John.
craig		Don't forget me.
lotte		Well, you have the Maxine action figure to play with.
craig		Life is confusing, isn't it?
lotte		Sometimes we're forced to make hard decisions.  I'd like for us to stay together, Craig. You know, platonically, if that's possible. I truly value our friendship.
craig		I feel that somehow my parents never prepared me to make this particular decision. Not that I blame them. How could they know? Today's world is so complicated.  No. I have to go away now. I'm sorry, Lotte. I'm so sorry.
maxine		You're late.
craig		Are you torturing me on purpose?
maxine		 I've fallen in love.
craig		I don't think so. I've fallen in love. This is what people who've fallen in love look like.
maxine		You picked the unrequited variety. Very bad for the skin.
craig		You're evil, Maxine.
maxine		Do you have any idea what its like to have two people look at you with total lust and devotion through the same pair of eyes? No I don't suppose you would. It's quite a thrill, Craig.
lester		 Yes, my dear?
lester		Thank you, Floris.
lester		 Good morning, Lotte!
lotte		I blew it, Dr. Lester.
lester		You followed your heart, my child, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.
lotte		But now we've lost access to Craig.
lester		 My child, I don't think its a great mystery what Craig's up to.
lotte		I'm your Goddamn wife. Once you vowed to cherish me forever. Now you hold a gun to my head?
craig		Yeah, well welcome to the nineties.
lotte		Suck my dick!
craig		 Shut up!
lotte		 You bastard.
lotte		 I have to see you.
craig		 Tell her, what the hell, close early today, live dangerously.
lotte		What the hell, darling. Close early today, live dangerously.
lotte		 Help! He's locking me in a cage!
neighbor		Shut up!
parrot		Shut up!
craig		Lesson number one:  Be careful what you teach your parrot.
malkovich		Tommy, can I take fifteen?
maxine		Oh, Lotte... Oh, sweetie...
malkovich		Maxine...
craig		You're glowing again.
maxine		A girl has a right to glow if she wants. It's in the fucking constitution.
craig		It was lovely being you being Malkovich, my dear. I'd never seen the passionate side of sweet Maxine before, or her actual tits for that matter. If only, I've been thinking to myself, if only I could actually feel what Malkovich feels, rather than just see what he sees... And then, dare I say it, if only I could control his arms, his legs, his pelvis, and make them do my bidding.
lotte		It'll never happen, fuckface.
craig		Ah, but you're forgetting one thing, Lambchop.
lotte		What's that?
craig		I'm a puppeteer.
maxine		Lotte, this is so good...
malkovich		Holy shit, yes!
malkovich		Holy shit! He said what I said!
maxine		Lotte? Is that you?
malkovich		Yes, yes, sweetheart, yes!  What the fuck is going on? I'm not talking. This is not me!
maxine		Oh, Lotte...
malkovich		Something was making me talk. Some Goddamn thing was making me move. I gotta get out of here.
maxine		Oh, Dollface, it was just your passion for me taking hold.
malkovich		No, Dollface, I know what my passion taking hold feels like. I gotta go.
craig		I did it, sweetie. I moved his arm across your girlfriend's glorious tit. I made him talk. And, oh, there was the beginning of sensation in the fingertips. Ummmm-mmmm! It's just a matter of practice before Malkovich becomes nothing more than another puppet hanging next to my worktable. Coffee?
malkovich		It's like nothing I've ever felt before. I think I'm going crazy.
kevin bacon		I'm sure you're not going crazy.
malkovich		Kevin, I'm telling you... it was like nothing I've...
kevin bacon		Yeah yeah yeah. Yadda yadda yadda. Were you stoned?
malkovich		Yes, but you see, someone else was talking through my mouth.
kevin bacon		You were stoned. Case closed. End of story. How hot is this babe?
malkovich		I think it might've been this Lotte woman talking through me. Maxine likes to call me Lotte.
kevin bacon		Ouch. Now that's hot. She's using you to channel some dead lesbian lover. Let me know when you're done with her. This is my type of chick.
malkovich		I'm done with her now. Tonight really creeped me out.
kevin bacon		You're crazy to let go of a chick who calls you Lotte. I tell you that as a friend.
malkovich		I don't know anything about her. What if she's some sort of witch or something?
kevin bacon		All the better. Hey, Hot Lesbian Witches, next Geraldo, buddy boy. Ha ha ha.
malkovich		I gotta know the truth, Kevin.
kevin bacon		The truth is for suckers, Johnny-Boy.
malkovich		Excuse me, what type of service does this company provide?
fat man		You get to be John Malkovich for fifteen minutes. Two hundred clams.
malkovich		 I see.
fat man		No cutting, by the way.
craig		Hey! Break it up! Break it up! Everybody gets a chance to be...
fat man		It's him! Oh, we're so sorry Mr. Malkovich! I hope me and my associates from Overeaters Anonymous didn't hurt you too terribly.
malkovich		 Inside.
maxine		Darling!
malkovich		What the fuck is going on?
craig		Mr. Malkovich, my name is Craig Schwartz. I can explain. We operate a little business her that... simulates, for our clientele, the experience of... being you, actually.
malkovich		Simulates?
craig		Sure, after a fashion.
malkovich		Let me try.
craig		You? Why I'm sure it would pale in comparison to the actual experience.
malkovich		Let me try!
maxine		Let him try.
craig		Of course, right this way, Mr. Malkovich. Compliments of the house.
malkovich		 Jesus.
craig		What happens when a man climbs through his own portal?
maxine		 How the hell would I know? I wasn't a philosophy major.
girl malkovich		Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich...
waiter malkovich		Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich?
girl malkovich		Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich.
waiter malkovich		Malkovich Malkovich.  Malkovich?
malkovich		Malkovich!
waiter malkovich		Malkovich.
singing malkovich		Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich Malkovich...
craig		So how was it?
malkovich		That... was... no... simulation.
craig		I know. I'm sorry...
malkovich		I have been to the dark side. I have seen a world that no man should ever see.
craig		Really? For most people it's a rather pleasant experience. What exactly did you...
malkovich		This portal is mine and must be sealed up forever. For the love of God.
craig		With all respect, sir, I discovered that portal. Its my livelihood.
malkovich		It's my head, Schwartz, and I'll see you in court!
craig		 And who's to say I won't be seeing what you're seeing... in court?
motorist		Hey, Malkovich! Think fast!
lotte		Once this was a relationship based on love. Now you have me in a cage with a monkey and a gun to my head.
craig		Things change. Anyway, you gave up your claim to that love the first time you stuck your dick in Maxine.
lotte		You fell in love with her first.
craig		Yeah but I didn't do anything about it. Out of respect for our marriage.
lotte		You didn't do anything about it out of respect for the fact that she wouldn't let you near her with a ten foot pole, which is, by the way, about nine feet, nine inches off the mark anyway.
craig		 That's true. Oh, God, Lotte, what have I become? My wife in a cage with a monkey. A gun in my hand. Betrayal in my heart.
lotte		Maybe this is what you've always been, Craig, you just never faced it before.
craig		Perhaps you're right. I can't let you go though. Too much has happened. You're my ace in the hole.
lotte		I need a shower.
craig		I'm sorry. Oh God, I'm sorry. I'm some kind of monster. I'm the guy you read about in the paper and go, "he's some kind of monster."
lotte		You're not a monster, Craig. Just a confused man.
craig		I love you so much.
lotte		We have to meet.
maxine		One hour.
craig		I'll tell you all about it when I get home.
safari man		Well, there monkeys ain't going nowhere. Let's get us a couple a brews 'fore the boss comes back...
safari man		Why you little bastard!
lotte		Oh, Elijah, you are magnificent!
lotte		Maxine! Listen:  It hasn't been me in John the last three times. Craig's had me locked up in the apartment. He made me call you at gunpoint. It's been him! Oh, God, it's been him!
lotte		But Maxine, I thought it was me you loved.
lotte		Hello, Dr. Lester?
malkovich		Come on in.
maxine		I can explain about the portal, darling.
malkovich		Don't con me, Maxine. We're over. I just let you up here to tell you that, and to tell you that I'm taking you and Schwartz to court.
maxine		Oh shut up.  Craig, darling are you in there?
malkovich		Yes. How did you know it was me?
maxine		Lotte called me.
malkovich		Oh, so the bitch escaped.
maxine		Apparently you can control this Malkovich fellow now.
malkovich		I'm getting better all the time.
maxine		I'll say you are. Let's do it on his kitchen table, then make him eat an omelette off of it.
malkovich		 Oh shut up, you overrated sack of shit.
lester		You know I think it pays to leave juice-making to the trained professionals. You look terrible, my dear.
lotte		Craig stole Maxine from me, Dr. Lester.
lester		Hmmm, a lesbian, are you? I must inform you that I find that highly arousing.
lotte		No, you don't understand. I've been inside Malkovich when I'm with Maxine...
lester		 What?! That is not allowed. My God, you are supposed to be one of us. You know you must never partake of Malkovich by yourself!
lotte		No, I didn't know that.
lester		Oh, didn't anyone show you the indoctrination video?
lotte		No.
lester		Oh, sorry. Right this way.
lotte		Does Floris know that she's the chosen?
lester		Well, I tried to explain it to her, but...
maxine		You still there, sweets?
malkovich		Yeah. I've figured out how to hold on as long as I want. Oddly enough, it's all in the wrists.
maxine		Wow.  Do a puppet show for me, Craig honey.
malkovich		You mean with Malkovich?
maxine		I'd love to see your work.
malkovich		 Really? Yeah. Okay.
maxine		 That was incredible. You're brilliant!
malkovich		You see, Maxine, it isn't just playing with dolls.
maxine		You're right, my darling, it's so much more. It's playing with people!
maxine		Stay in him forever?
malkovich		 But how will we make a living, my love, if our clientele doesn't have access to our product?
maxine		Well, we'll have all the money in Malkovich's bank account, plus he still gets acting work occasionally.
malkovich		 It is sort of like being a puppeteer. I like that about it.
maxine		No one would ever have to know its not him.
malkovich		 Wait a minute! What if everybody knew? What if we presented Malkovich as the world's most complicated puppet and me as the only puppeteer sophisticated enough to work him? We'd wipe the floor with the Great Mantini!
maxine		Oh, Craiggy, that's brilliant!
lotte		I have sinned, unwittingly, against the community. And for this I am truly sorry.
lotte		Oh, it's glorious. It's indescribable.
lester		Perhaps you're right, Terry. We're all prepared, and perhaps this Schwartz fellow is forcing our hand a bit. We will enter the portal tonight!
malkovich		 Sorry, dear, I lost control for a minute.
maxine		 It's okay, my sweet.
lester		Aaaahhhh, the portal!
lotte		 You bastard!
lester		No! Don't harm the vessel!
lotte		It's Craig in there, I can tell.
lester		I understand, but we must protect the vessel at all costs.  Please, Craig, please step aside and allow us to have what is rightfully ours.
craig		Squatter's rights, Lester.
maxine		Now excuse us, we have an entertainment legend to create.
lester		 Clear the way for them, my friends. They will be dealt with in due time.
agent		Of course, send him right in. Don't ever keep him waiting again. Do you understand?
malkovich		This is my fiancee Maxine.
agent		Great to see you, Maxine. Sorry about the cunt at reception. Please have a seat.
maxine		No thanks.
agent		 Chicken soup?
malkovich		I'll get right to the point, Larry. I'm a puppet now...
agent		Okay.
malkovich		I'm being controlled by the world's greatest puppeteer, Craig Schwartz...
agent		 Oh yeah, he's good.
malkovich		... and I want to show off his skills by performing a one-puppet extravaganza in Reno.
maxine		Vegas.
malkovich		Vegas. Can you arrange that?
agent		Sure, sure. Just let me make a couple of calls.
lester		Well, let's see what we've got here.
director		Cut!
lester		Thank you all for your efforts, but I'm afraid we can no longer get into Malkovich through the portal.
lotte		 Why not? I need to get in there!
lester		I'm not certain, my dear, but I believe your husband has somehow psychically diverted the route.
lotte		That bastard! I'll gladly dispose of him in the name of the order, Son of Malkovich.
lester		I'm afraid that no physical harm must come to him as long as he inhabits the vessel.
lester		Actually, my friends, I suppose its time I told you, I'm Captain James Mertin.
lester		 I'm two hundred and five, truth be told.
lester		Lots of carrot juice, little lady. That, and a deal with the Devil.
lester		Surprise.
lester		Absolutely.
lotte		Well, I for one, am resigning. I will not serve evil. I am ashamed of all of you.
lester		My dear, let me assure you that when we attain power, it will be much more pleasant for those inside Malkovich, than for those outside.
lotte		I'll take my chances.
lester		Anybody else?
lester		But of course.
lester		Good. I think its time to beckon Mr. Flemmer. Perhaps He can help us out of this pickle.
flemmer		Boy, this is a toughie. To be honest, I didn't anticipate this.
lester		And as I said, sir, we can't very well exert physical persuasion upon the sacred vessel Malkovich.
flemmer		Right, Lester. I heard you the first time. I'm not a dummy.
lester		Didn't mean to imply that you were, sir.
flemmer		Look, I'm going back to my house to ponder this. So stay calm and keep track of Schwartz's comings and goings. Oh, and somebody dispose of Schwartz's wife, will you?  Nice to meet you all.
lotte		Oh, my friends. Be thankful you're not human. People are treacherous and greedy and corrupt. I've lost my heart to two of them and I almost lost my soul to another. And I'm no better. Look at the way I keep you, locked in cages, for my own enjoyment. Well, I've been in a cage too, my friends. Literally and figuratively. So tonight I set you free.
lotte		They've come to kill me, Elijah. See, I know too much. I should get the door. It's impolite to keep death waiting.
maxine		This is it, lover. You're stepping onto that stage a nobody and presto-change-o, you're coming back the greatest puppeteer the world has ever seen.
malkovich		I'm nervous. Malkovich is fighting me hard today.
maxine		Doesn't he know how important tonight is to us?
malkovich		He's a selfish bastard.
lester		Blasphemous bastard.
usher		Oh, Mr. Mantini! We weren't expecting you tonight, sir. Um, I'm afraid there's not an empty seat in the entire house.
mantini		 Make one empty.
usher		Y-y-y-es sir.
lester		Not too shabby.
mantini		Nothing more than a Goddamn clown.
lotte		They're going to take over the world, Elijah. Evil will reign. But, then, evil already reigns, doesn't it? So what difference does it make if John Malkovich is wearing the fucking crown while it's reigning?
flemmer		It's open.
lester		It's just me, boss. I brought croissants.
flemmer		Have a seat. I wracking my brain over this Malkovich thing.
lester		We saw his show at the Luxor last night.
flemmer		 Vegas? What'd you think?
lester		The kid's got talent. You've never seen Malkovich like this. Schwartz had him up there singing and dancing. Impressions.
flemmer		Impressions? Those are hard.
lester		Very talented son of a bitch. Too bad we can't kill him.
flemmer		I suppose I could come to him in a dream. I don't know. That's the best I can think of right now.
lester		A scary dream?
flemmer		No, a sexy dream. Of course, a scary dream.
lester		 I like that.
malkovich		They love me, darling! "Craig Schwartz is fantastic!"  The New York Times. "If only Craig Schwartz had always been inside Malkovich!"  Women's Wear Daily. "Craig Schwartz - The world's greatest puppeteer!"  Paul Wunder, WBAI Radio.
maxine		Oh, darling. It's a dream come true. We're going to ride this straight to the top.
malkovich		Sleepy suddenly.
maxine		Busy day, my little fire chief. Why don't you climb into bed, and I'll meet you there in just...
craig		Who are you?
flemmer		I am the Devil.
craig		Oh.
flemmer		Leave Malkovich. He is mine.
craig		Okay. Sorry. I didn't know.
maxine		Bad dream, darling?
malkovich		I've got to leave Malkovich.
maxine		You've got to be kidding.
malkovich		I just had the most horrifying nightmare. The devil was in it.
maxine		Malkovich is our meal ticket. You can't back out because of some stupid dream.
flemmer		 Shit.
malkovich		Honey, we can be happy and poor together.
maxine		 Perhaps you'll want to consult that Ouija board again.
malkovich		Derek Mantini!
mantini		 Hello, Schwartz. I saw your show.
malkovich		Did you see the reviews?
mantini		Yeah, I saw them
malkovich		Because if you missed any, I just happen to have copies here you can take with you when you leave now.
maxine		I'm Maxine. I produced the evening with Malkovich.
mantini		Very impressive. I could use a producer with your vision. And other outstanding attributes.
malkovich		She's not available.
mantini		We'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
maxine		Yeah, we'll see, Schwartz. We'll see.
mantini		I won't waste your time Schwartz, or more importantly, mine. Here's my proposal: There's only room in this world for one "World's Greatest Puppeteer."  Correct? So let's allow the puppet-going public to crown their king.
malkovich		How do we do that?
mantini		A friendly competition, if you will. Your Malkovich puppet and my Harry S. Truman puppet appear opposite each other in a play. Not some Vegas Burly-Q pyrotechnics, but a real play that requires actual acting. The audience decides who is more deserving of the title. The losing puppeteer bows out graciously. Goes back to obscurity as a file clerk.
malkovich		What's the play?
mantini		Say... "Equus"? It's got everything.
malkovich		Never heard of it.
mantini		Broadway's finest three hours. It's about the suppression of the individual. Conformity as God in modern society.
malkovich		Sounds boring. Are there any songs?
mantini		Nothing but acting to hide behind, buddy-boy.
malkovich		I'm not afraid. I toured for a year with the National Puppet Company's production of "Long Day's Journey Into Night."
mantini		Great then.
malkovich		Is there dancing?
mantini		No.
malkovich		Who needs dancing?
lester		How'd it go? Did you say the philodendron gets water or no?
flemmer		No, for God's sake, I just watered it yesterday.  It almost went well. I gave a pretty good dream, but circumstances arose.
lester		What kind of circumstances?
flemmer		Maxine says she'll leave him if he leaves Malkovich, plus he's been challenged to a puppet-duel by Mantini.
lester		The Great Mantini?
flemmer		No, the Mediocre Mantini. Of course the Great Mantini!
lester		Oh, he's good! Great, actually. I saw him do "Tru" with his sixty foot Robert Morse puppet. Sensational.
flemmer		But I think I have another plan.
lester		 Do tell. I love a good plan.
flemmer		Why are you being like this?
lester		I missed you. I'm sorry. Tell me the plan.
flemmer		Well, if Mantini wins, Schwartz will leave Malkovich, right? So, if he needs it, I help Mantini's performance a bit, give him an edge. Spice up the show.
lester		Can you do that? I mean, do you know anything about puppetry?
flemmer		I am the Devil, Lester. I think I can handle it.
lester		I was just asking. No disrespect intended.
flemmer		Fine. Let's drop it.
lester		Fine. I mean, it's not like I was doubting you, it's just that I know puppetry is a skill that takes a long time to acquire.
flemmer		Fine. I'm not mad. Let's just drop it.
lester		Fine. Your mail's on the kitchen table. Mostly junk. Oh, there's a letter from Alex Trebek.
lotte		I'm glad you learned sign language, Elijah, but I'm tired of your nagging. I'm tired of this conversation. I'm tired period. What has the world ever done for me that I should feel personally responsible for saving it?
lotte		What have I become?
malkovich		Do you?
malkovich		Says who?
malkovich		Do you?
maxine		 Keep your eyes in your pants, old timer.
maxine		You'd better turn on the pyrotechnics, lover, 'cause right now you're running neck and neck with the dead president. And you're both in last place.
malkovich		Eyes! ... White eyes -- never closed! Eyes like flames -- coming -- coming! ... God seest! ... God seest! ... NO!
audience member		 That Malkovich puppet is a damn fine actor.
flemmer		 Bastard is stealing my thunder.
actual truman		Where am I? Aren't I dead?  Vote for Mantini!
malkovich		Good-bye, Maxine.
maxine		Whatever.
malkovich		 I'm back! My nightmare is over.
flemmer		 Okay, now!
malkovich		 I am your earthly king! Kneel before me!
crowd		 Hail Malkovich, king of the damned.
malkovich		 Greetings, my lowly subjects.
floris		Great things, my lonely subtext?
malkovich		 Never mind, dear. Just enjoy the ride, will you?
lotte		Yes. I'm the only one. I have to enter Malkovich and destroy him from the inside. If not me, who?
lotte		 Hush, sweetheart.
lotte		 I'll be with you always, my friends. Who knows, maybe if I'm lucky, I'll rejoin you with wings and a beak.
parrot		 Good-bye. Good-bye.
lotte		My God!
craig		I'm so glad you're safe. You look really wonderful.
lotte		I'm in love. For the first time. It's funny, but when it happens to you, there's no question.
craig		He's a lucky man.  Do I know him?
lotte		It's Elijah.
craig		The iguana?
lotte		The monkey.
craig		Oh, right. As long as you're happy. I'm sure he's a better lover than I ever was.
lotte		A better friend.
craig		 I'm sorry for everything.
lotte		 It's okay, Craig. It all worked out, in an odd sort of way.
craig		You came up here looking for the portal?
lotte		Yeah. I was going to kill him from the inside.
craig		And yourself too in the process. God, you're so beautiful. Why couldn't I see that before?
lotte		You saw it once. Now you see it again. That's life, isn't it? And you were up here to try the same thing, weren't you?
craig		I suppose. But they got here first, the lousy bastards. So now it's all over, I guess.
lotte		I don't know. There's a small community of us. We have a place they don't know about. We're happy. We'll keep trying to figure out a way. Come stay with us. Join the struggle.
craig		You'll have me, after all I've done to you?
lotte		People make mistakes.
craig		I'm through with puppets, Lotte. I just want you to know that.
lotte		I know.
craig		I'd like to be a farmer. I want to help things grow, to encourage life. Do you and your friends need a farmer?
lotte		Sure. We could really use a farmer. We'd be grateful for the help.  Also, I think, you know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly, a little puppet show every once in a while, would do a lot to lift our spirits. You know, if you wouldn't mind too terribly.
craig		I love you, Lotte.
mantini		 I can't wait to see where you and your friends live, Lotte.
flemmer		One serpent, coming up.
****Dialogues from script :Being_There.txt****

louise		 ... Evening, Chance.
louise		Then I got the hell out of that room and called the doctor and I think I woke him probably, he wasn't any too alert. He just said, 'Yeah, he's been expectin' it and said he'd send somebody over...' Lord, what a mornin'!
chance		 I'm going to work in the garden.
louise		 ... I'll get you some eggs.
hayes		 ... This is another world, Tom - I never would have believed it...
franklin		 ... You've quite a sense of humor, Mr. Chance - but all kidding aside, may I ask just what you are doing here?
chance		Oh. Thank you.
chance		I was given meals, and a home...
chance		 Those trees were very young when I first arrived.
franklin		 ... Do you drive this, Mr. Chance?
hayes		 You never been in a car?
franklin		 What are your plans now, Mr. Chance?
chance		 I'm fine, Thomas. The garden is a healthy one. There is no need for a claim.
hayes		 Good day, Mr. Chance.
chance		 Good day, Sally.
chance		 ... Excuse me, would you please tell me where I could find a garden to work in?
abbaz		 Now, move, honkie! Before I cut your white ass!
policeman		Good day.
david		I'm very sorry, sir... I...
chance		 ... I can't move... My leg...
david		 ... My Lord...
jeffrey		This is terrible, sir -  I hope you're not badly injured...
chance		 It's very sore.
eve		 ... Won't you let us do something for you? Your leg should be examined, we could take you to a hospital.
chance		 There's no need for a hospital.
david		Thank you, ma'am.
jeffrey		Please, sir.
chance		 Your family doctor?
chance		I agree.
eve		Would you care for a drink?
chance		Yes. Thank you.
eve		 Oh? Certainly...
chance		Hello, Eve.
eve		May I ask your name?
chance		 My name is Chance.
eve		Pardon me, was that Mr. Chance?
chance		 No. I'm a gardener.
eve		Oh... Mr. Gardiner... Mr. Chauncey Gardiner... You're not related to Basil and Perdita Gardiner are you?
eve		 I'll see you after the doctor has a look at your leg, Mr. Gardiner.
chance		 Yes, I think he should examine my leg.
chance		 ... I've never been in one of these.
wilson		It's one of Mr. Rand's. Since he's been ill...
rand		 ... Eve...
eve		 You heard?
chance		Oh, fine.
allenby		 ... By the way, Mr. Gardiner, I would like to ask you something straight out.
chance		 ... Straight out?
allenby		 Then you wish to handle this matter through your attorneys?
allenby		 ... Well, then... You're a very funny man, Mr. Gardiner. You caught me off guard, I must admit...
chance		 Thank you.
allenby		 I'll send Wilson up to take you for X-rays, Mr. Gardiner. Feel free to use the telephone, and please let me know if you have any discomfort.
chance		 Yes, I will.
rand		Welcome to Rand Memorial Hospital, Mr. Gardiner.
chance		 ... I see.
rand		Sure you do. This ward is air tight, I have a little extra oxygen pumped in, keeps my spirits up.
chance		Yes. I like that very much.
billings		 This won't take long, Mr. Gardiner. Please hold still when I ask.
chance		 Do you know Raphael?
billings		No sir, I don't believe I do.
billings		Yes, sir.
chance		A Black man gave me the message.
rand		I know exactly what you mean. Today the businessman is at the mercy of kid-lawyers from the SEC. All they want to do is regulate our natural growth! It's happening across the country!
wilson		 ... Sorry, sir - I just couldn't contain myself... I knew you were going to come out with another one of your jests about the elevator... Excuse me, sir...
chance		 ... Hmmm... Elevator.
wilson		 ... Yes sir - elevator!
eve		... Good night, Chauncey.
chance		Good night, Eve.
allenby		Hell yes - walk. You're meeting the President, aren't you?
chance		 Oh, really?
smythe		May I help you, Mr. Gardiner?
chance		 Yes. I would like to go to Rand Memorial Hospital.
smythe		 ... Sir?
chance		Yes.
smythe		... Did you wish to see someone, sir?
chance		Yes, I would like to see Ben.
smythe		Oh, Mr. Rand, of course. Right this way, sir.
woltz		 Okay, let's go to work.
chance		 I see, Ben.
rand		Excellent.  A good woman, Mrs. Aubrey.
woltz		Good morning, Mr. Rand.
rand		Woltz, how have you been?
chance		Yes.
president		I just wondered if you had gone over my speech, Ben.
chance		 Yes?
president		 ... In the garden?
kaufman		 Gardiner, yes, sir.
rand		 ... You know, Chauncey, there's something about you... You're direct, you grasp things quickly and you state them plainly. You don't play games with words to protect yourself. I feel I can speak to you frankly... You know what I was talking to you about last night?
chance		 No, Ben.
allenby		 Excuse us, please.
eve		 ... With us ...
allenby		 ... Eve - this has been an exhausting day for Ben...
eve		 ... But he's...?
chance		No.
jennifer		He's in the basement.
jennifer		I don't know, Mrs. Aubrey.
chance		Oh, yes.
kinney		 ... Nothing.
courtney		 ... Skip the levity, Kinney - what have you got?
kinney		 ... I realize this sounds banal but there is no information of any sort on Gardiner. We have no material on him - zilch...
hull		Mr. Gardiner, I'm Morton Hull, the producer of 'This Evening.'
chance		 Hello, Morton.
colson		 Here you go, Mr. Gardiner.
chance		 I hope so.
dupont		 Well, let me rephrase the question; the President compared the economy of this country to a garden, and stated that after a period of decline a time of growth would naturally follow. Do you go along with this belief?
chance		In a garden, things grow - but first some things must wither; some trees lose their leaves before they grow new leaves...
chance		 ... Then they grow thicker and stronger and taller. Some trees die, but fresh saplings replace them. Gardens need a lot of care and a lot of love.
dupont		 I think your metaphors are quite interesting, Mr. Gardiner, but, haven't we seen seasons that have been devastating to certain countries?
dupont		 Such as disasterous winters, prolonged droughts that have wiped out crops, hurricanes that have all but swept away island communities? Doesn't a country need to have someone in charge that can see it through such crises?
president		... That bastard...
dupont		 Don't we need a leader capable of guiding us through the seasons? The bad as well as the good?
chance		 Yes. We need a very good gardener.
chance		Oh, yes. It is possible for one side of the garden to be flooded, and the other side to be dry...
chance		 ... Some plants do well in the sun, and others grow better in the cool of the shade.
chance		 ... It is the gardener's responsibility to take water from the flooded area and run it to the area that is dry. It is the gardener's responsibility not to plant a sun-loving flower in the shade of a high wall...
rand		 Splendid. Just splendid...
johanna		 ... Business, bullshit! Going out in the middle of the night to meet that bitch in a bar...
franklin		You know, Sally - I really feel like I've been had, and you know what that means, don't you?... It means that any political future I had is right down the toilet!
courtney		I said - try again.
perkins		May I take your coat, Mr. Gardiner?
rand		 ... You possess a great gift, Chauncey, of being natural. And that, my boy, is a rare talent, the true mark of a leader. You were strong and brave, yet did not moralize. I hope the entire country was watching you tonight, the entire country...
eve		 ... I have very few friends, Chauncey... And Benjamin's friends are all quite a bit older...
kaufman		Right, Chief.
kaufman		Yes, sir.
chance		 No, Eve. I like you to be here.
eve		... I'm grateful to you, Chauncey... I would have opened to you with a touch, and you know that...  ... But you're so strong - I can trust myself with you. I'm glad, Chauncey - I'm glad that you showed so much restraint...
chance		 Yes. That could be true.
eve		 ... I guess I may as well be honest about my feelings, Chauncey, as I know you are I am in love with you... I love you and I want you... And I know that you know it and I'm grateful that you've decided to wait until... Until...
allenby		 Yes, this is Dr. Robert Allenby, would you please tell Mr. Franklin that I would like to talk to him? It concerns Chauncey Gardiner.
tv reporter		... Do you mean, Mr. Gardiner, that you find television's coverage of the news superior to that of the newspapers?
watson		Mrs. Rand, how good to see you.
chance		Yes.
eve		Chauncey, this is Mr. Dennis Watson of the State Department.
chance		 Hello, Dennis.
watson		A pleasure to meet you, sir.
chance		Yes. It is.
sophie		Eve, child! How nice of you to come.
eve		Hello, Sophie.
sophie		And look who you brought with!
eve		Sophie, this is Chauncey Gardiner...
sophie		 Oh, I've been just dying to meet you, Mr. Gardiner!
eve		Chauncey, this is Mrs. Sophia Rowley.
chance		 Hello, Sophia.
kaufman		Sorry to disturb you, chief but we have new developments.
chance		 Hello... His... His...
skrapinov		 How is my dear friend Benjamin feeling?
sophie		 Come on, Eve. Let's let the men talk, there are so many people that have been asking about you.
eve		 Would you two excuse me for a moment?
skrapinov		 ... Tell me, Mr. Gardiner, just how serious is Benjamin's illness? I did not want to upset Mrs. Rand by discussing it in detail.
chance		I certainly do.
skrapinov		Yes. Tell me, Mr. Gardiner - do you by any chance enjoy Krylov's fables? I ask this because there is something... there is something Krylovian about you.
courtney		... It's strictly rumor at this stage, Lyman - just something in the wind...
stiegler		Mr. Gardiner, I'm Ronald Stiegler, of Harvard Books.
rand		 What could be more precise than everything...?
monroe		 Everything to Mrs. Rand.
townsend		 Right - everything.
chance		 I like to watch.
dennis		 Oh, you can tell her later. She'll never miss you in this crowd.
first lady		 It's your damn job. It never happened when you were a senator...
dennis' voice		Do you like it?
chance		Yes. It's very tiny, but it's good.
eve		Chauncey, where have you been? I was afraid you got bored and left, or that you were with some mysterious woman.
president		 And what do the boys around Intelligence think?
eve		 ... And Benjamin understands that, dearest... He understands and accepts my feelings for you...
chance		 Good night, Eve.
rand		I know, Robert... But, strangely enough, I don't feel too bad about now... I feel all right... I guess it's easier... knowing Chauncey is here... to take care of things...
rand		 ... Chauncey... Chauncey...
chance		 A flower...
allenby		 Yes, I suppose that's true.
chance		 Will you be leaving now, Robert?
allenby		 ... Chance...?
eve		It was very moving, Bobby - thank you so much...
president		We're all going to miss him, Eve...  ... Where's Mr. Gardiner?
allenby		... He walked off...
eve		Chauncey is so sensitive... He was overcome with grief...
president		I can certainly understand that...
first lady		Of course... I'm so sorry for you, Eve...
eve		Thank you, Nancy.
first lady		I'll call you soon.
chance		 Hello, Eve.
****Dialogues from script :Believer.txt****

2000		Final Shooting Script
rav zingesser		"And God said to Abraham, 'Take your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go into the land of Moriah and offer him there for a sacrifice upon a mountain that I will show you..."
rav zingesser		And why did the Holy One -- blessed be He -- do this? Why did he ask Abraham to sacrifice his only son, whom he loved?
rav zingesser		But, Danny, if HaShem is everything, and we are nothing how are we to judge His actions?
avi		Anyway, God never lets Abraham kill Isaac. He provides the ram so that --
rav zingesser		You think?! Based on what?
rav zingesser		No one follows that midrash.
rav zingesser		Watch your language....
rav zingesser		Avi -- ask Rabbi Springer to come remove Danny from the class....
rav zingesser		And you, if you had come out of Egypt, you would have been destroyed in the desert with those who worshipped the Golden Calf.
woman's voice		Is this working? I'm trying to reach Danny Balint...Danny, it's Vicki, we met at Happy Jack's last month...?
woman's voice		I was hoping maybe we could...get together again... Give me a call --
danny		Vodka tonic.
billings		...So she takes the pants in back -- where they try them on? And I think fuck it....
carleton		Are you shitting me?? Right in the store?
billings		She's been giving me the eye. She's hot. So I wait till the owner goes up front....
voice		What are you doing??
danny		 What do you think you're doing?
billings		Who the fuck are you?
danny		 Give it to me.
danny		 You're going to Curtis Zampf; me, too. Let's go?
curtis		...If he ran out in front of a car, some old Mick'd yell at him, "Jimmy Dunne, get back on that sidewalk and stay there...."
curtis		...The day he graduated high school, he'd go see his uncle down at the gas works, or the priest's brother in the shipyard, get his apprentice papers, eight years later he'd be making $16.50 an hour, have four kids, play ball on Sundays in Columbus Park, and when he died, the whole town'd get drunk and cry over him....
curtis		...Today, when that kid walks down the street it's full of trash and half the faces are black. The shipyard's closed, all the jobs at the gas works are set-asides, and by the time he drops out of school, he can barely get a job at Burger King. So he drinks, smokes crack, and when he hangs himself on the front porch at twenty-three, the only people at his wake are a couple of buddies and his mother. The boy's father won't find out he's dead till six months later.  The soul of this country is being destroyed, and all the government can offer is free trade, mutual funds and IPOs.
guy danielsen		You sound like a leftist.
curtis		I used to be one.... No, seriously, I called myself an anarchist. I stood up for the oppressed. I opposed state power.
curtis		I oppose the present state because it's weak. It has been ever since the left emasculated it over Vietnam. But I think the average man is crushed less by accumulated capital than the loss of community or real leadership, the personal emptiness he simply cannot fill on his own....  That's why I'm a fascist. It's the only form of government that addresses our deepest needs.
danny		What do you think the fascism of the twenty-first century will look like?
curtis		More cultural than political.
danny		Obviously.
curtis		Decentralized, nonviolent, increasingly mainstream. We'll see antiabortion, anti-immigration groups form alliances with the gun lobby, Christian identity types, tax resisters and even some libertarians....
old coot		What about race?
curtis		This isn't the time for that.
danny		I disagree.  Spiritual life comes from race. From the blood. Without that, we're no better than the Jews....
carla		What's wrong with the Jews?
danny		Have you read Toynbee? Spengler?
carla		Nobody reads that stuff anymore.
danny		Too difficult?
carla		Too Christian. You know Jameson? Paul Virilio?
danny		The point is, the modern world is a Jewish disease.
carla		Disease? What disease?
danny		Abstraction. They're obsessed with abstraction.
danny		Killing Jews.
curtis		That would be a catastrophic mistake.
danny		People hate Jews. Do you agree?
curtis		They used to. Today it's not an issue.
danny		No, but deep down, beneath the "tolerance" they learn on television, nothing's changed. The very word makes their skin crawl.  It isn't even hate, really. It's more the way we feel when a rat runs across the floor. We want to step on it. Crush it. We don't even know why. It's a physical reaction. Everyone feels it.
guy danielsen		Which ones would you kill?
danny		Prominent Jews. Who are either symbols in themselves or who represent aspects of the Jewish character people despise.
guy danielsen		Such as?
old coot		Barbra Streisand.
danny		Too obvious.
voices		Kissinger...Dershowitz...Roseanne...
danny		Yes. And Larry King...
old coot		Is he Jewish?
danny		...Leona Helmsley, Michael Eisner, Bob Dylan, Phillip Roth, Ruth Bader Ginsberg, Steven Spielberg, Winona Ryder, Beverly Sills, Alvin Toffler, Katherine Graham. All of them. But not yet. We don't want celebrity obscuring the issue.
carla		Which is what?
danny		At first, no one will know why the victims are being killed.
curtis		You wouldn't announce it?
danny		I'd say nothing. After two or three, people will try to find a pattern. A reason.
curtis		But when it comes out, the public will be outraged. It will look like Germany all over again.
danny		Isn't that what we want? Germany all over again? Only done right this time...
danny		Without speeches or political parties. A movement without leaders so that no one can stop it...
curtis		Okay, let's break this up for now....  Could you wait a minute...?
curtis		 ...I thought we agreed, no anti- Semitism...it's exactly what we're trying to put behind us.... Trash the blacks, fine; but...
curtis		Yes, of course. But that only plays in this room, with people who aren't embarrassed to call themselves Nazis. If you want a modern fascism, you don't mention Jews.
curtis		Lina, the Thousand-Year Reich barely lasted a decade.... Do you really want to go down that road again? In America of all places, where obedience and discipline are not exactly the national virtues...
lina		He's very bright.
curtis		He speaks well. But what do we do with him?
lina		Let's find out who he is.
curtis		You mean who he really is.
carla		You're not in school? What do you do?
danny		I work at the Big Boy warehouse. In Queens. I drive a fork-lift.
carla		Where'd you read all that stuff?
danny		I just read it....
lina		Young man...
lina		Lina Moebius. And you are...?
danny		Daniel Balint.
lina		Balint?
danny		It's German.
danny		I was going to ask you the same thing.
lina		So what are you really after, Daniel?... Do you just want to kill Jews, or do you have something larger in mind?
danny		Without blood -- a willingness to spill it -- there's no real power, no authority.
lina		 Curtis is afraid you'll marginalize us.
danny		We're already marginal. We are saying what no one else has the guts to say. Isn't that precisely our appeal?
lina		So what Jew would you kill first?
danny		Ilio Manzetti...former ambassador to France. Managing partner at Damon, Schwarzchild.
curtis		 An investment banking house.
danny		Totally. The family emigrated from Bulgaria when he was eleven.
curtis		How would you kill him?
danny		I'd have to research it, study his routines, his security.... But ideally on a New York street at midday, using a small-caliber automatic without a silencer.
carla		Why no silencer?
danny		You want it to be an event.
lina		Danny, why don't you come visit us in the country. We have young men with lots of energy and no ideas. Maybe you could give them something to think about.... Bring your friends, if you like....
billings		Bring your friends.... We're not his friends.
danny		Then I won't bring you....
billings		FUCK YOU.
billings		Why don't you go back to Rwanda and give each other AIDS.
billings		What, do you like it here?
danny		Read Mein Kampf? Hitler had all his best ideas in prison.
danny		I'm not leaving without them.
carla		Can I use a credit card?
carla		He should go to a hospital.
billings		You coming?
danny		 We'll go to the country sometime, okay?
carleton		Fucking Danny, man...
billings		He's an asshole.
danny		"...und die Worte zerfielen mir im Munde wie modrige Pilze..."
carla		"And the words fell apart in my mouth like moldering mushrooms..."
danny		How come so many of the books are in Spanish?
carla		They're my father's. He's from Argentina. My mother's family went there during the war. That's where they met.
danny		Are they still together?
carla		He's in a mental institution.... He's been there for ten years, off and on. Mostly on.
danny		Is he a Nazi?
carla		I guess. His parents are. He doesn't care about that.
danny		What's he care about?
carla		Killing himself.
danny		You think people ever commit suicide out of happiness?
carla		That's stupid. Why would they?
carla		You're not like the others, are you?... Your friends.
danny		Yes, I am. Basically I am.
carla		Hurt me.
carla		Ow! That's too hard.
carla		Do it again....
carla		Get up...you gotta go.
carla		No, you have to leave. I've got to write a paper.  Out!
linda		I knocked, you didn't answer.
linda		What are you doing here?
danny		I just came to get some stuff. I'll be out in five minutes.  He doesn't want me around.
linda		He's going to die.  I asked him to come live with us. Alex offered to share his room, unsolicited.... But he didn't want to be any trouble.
danny		Then he couldn't be bitter about living alone.
linda		Why deprive him of his greatest pleasure?
linda		Ah, Jesus Christ, Danny, how can you wear that thing?... You know what it means? To your people...
danny		They're not my people....
linda		Tell it to Hitler.
danny		Oh, he decides? Hitler's the chief rabbi now?...
linda		Is this because of those kids who used to beat you up?
danny		What kids?...
linda		The Polacks? From Sacred Heart?
danny		Nobody ever beat me up.  Look, Linda, there're fifty reasons. Even if you knew them all, there'd be another fifty you didn't know.
linda		Do you know them?  I made him some noodles for dinner. You can heat them up and --
danny		I've got to get back to the --
linda		You can heat them up and eat with him.
danny		It's Friday....
father		 Do I give a shit?
father		The Torah says not to light a fire on the Sabbath, because it's work, correct?  But if alternating current's running through the wires every second of every day, and I throw a switch, send it here instead of there, how is that lighting a fire?
danny		"Do chickens give milk?"
father		Exactly.
father		Who's this?
danny		Dennis Leary.
father		Leary?
danny		No.
danny		 Howard Stern.
father		Obviously.
danny		Adam Sandler.
father		Funny?
danny		Not like Mr. Dorfmann.
father		He was funny.
father		After your mother died, that's when you stopped going to shul. Doing your homework. Everything.
danny		And that's when the Mets started to stink.
father		'Cause they got rid of Johnson. He knew how to deal with the assholes. Dallas Green, please...
danny		Valentine...
father		There's some maple walnut in the freezer.
danny		Linda says you're not supposed to have dairy.
father		Just a little... What's the difference?
father		Yeah?... Hold on.... It's for you.
danny		Hello...?
voice		Daniel Balint? My name's Guy Danielsen. I'm a reporter with the New York Times.
danny		 New York Times...?
voice		I'm doing a piece on right-wing groups, post Oklahoma City. I hear you're an important figure in those circles. You have a lot of interesting ideas....
danny		Who told you that?
voice		Isn't it true?
danny		No, it's...yeah, it's true, but... how'd you get this number?... No, not here... Maybe Sunday? There's a place off Queens Blvd. Near the courthouse...
guy danielsen		Danny...Guy Danielsen...
danny		 You...
guy		Milk...?
guy		Is it okay if I record this?
danny		No... Yeah, fine, go ahead... So what's this about? Is this about me?
guy		I'm trying to figure out where the radical right is going to next....I thought you were the most interesting person at that meeting.
danny		What about Curtis Zampf?
guy		Curtis is a politician -- and a bit of a hustler. He's not a thinker.
danny		I agree.
guy		The other night you said the modern world is a Jewish disease. Could you elaborate on that?
danny		In the movement -- the racialist movement -- we believe there's a hierarchy of the races. Not just in IQ, but in the civilization, the art, the forms of government, the civilizations that each race produces... Why are you writing this down if you're recording it?
guy		It helps me concentrate.... So does that mean you're a white supremacist?
danny		What should I be, a white inferior- ist? A multicultural Zulu egalitarian? Let me ask, where are your people from?
guy		My mother's family is French, my father's was German, originally.
danny		German. Mine, too. So who do you think's given more to the world, the Germans -- Beethoven, Goethe, Nietzsche -- or the entire continent of Africa? Ibos, Bantus, Mandingos...
guy		Danny, what about the Jews?
danny		The Jews are different.... Blacks are disgusting and inferior, but it's like criticizing a retarded child. The Jews are...a poison in the human well....
guy		A poison...?
danny		Let me give you an example.... Sexuality.
guy		Sexuality??? What do you mean?
danny		You ever fuck a Jewish girl?
guy		What??!?
danny		Did you ever fuck one, Guy?
guy		 What's that go to do with...I've gone out with a, with Jewish women. Why?
danny		And? WHat did you notice?
guy		Notice? Like what...?
danny		Jewish girls like to give head, right?
guy		I don't know. Is that right?
danny		And Jewish men like to get it.
guy		Everybody likes to, don't they?
danny		Yes. It's very pleasurable. But the Jews are obsessed with it. You know why?
guy		Why?
danny		Because the Jew is essentially female.
guy		Female...
danny		Real men -- white, Christian men -- we fuck a woman. We make her come with our cocks. But the Jew doesn't like to penetrate and thrust -- he can't assert himself that directly -- so he resorts to perversions. Oral sex is technically a perversion, you know that, don't you?  After a woman has been with a Jewish man, she never wants a normal partner again. A normal man.
guy		Does that mean the Jew is the better lover?
danny		You're not listening. He isn't better. He gives pleasure, but that's actually a weakness.
guy		Danny, what makes you think you know all this?
danny		Let's just say I've done due diligence.
guy		So, fine, it's not that the Jew, the Jews own the media and the banks. It's that they're sexually corrupt.
danny		The Jews clearly control the media and the banks. Investment banks, not the commercial ones. But the point is they carry out in those realms the same principles they display in sexuality. They undermine traditional life; they deracinate society.
danny		Deracinate... Tear out the roots. A people -- a real people -- derives its genius from the land: the sun, the sea, the soil. This is how they know themselves. But the Jew doesn't have soil.
guy		He has Israel.
danny		Those aren't Jews.
guy		Of course they're Jews.
danny		Notice the Israelis: a fundamentally secular society. They no longer need Judaism because they have soil. The real Jew is a wanderer, a nomad. He has no roots, no attachments. So he "universalizes" everything. He can't hammer a nail, plow a field. He can only buy and sell, invest capital, manipulate markets. He takes the life of a people rooted in soil and turns it into a cosmopolitan culture based on books, ideas, numbers. This is his strength....  Take the great Jewish minds: Marx, Freud, Einstein. What have they given us: communism, infantile sexuality and the atom bomb. In a mere three centuries since these guys emerged from the ghettos of Europe, they've taken us from a world built on order and reason and hurled us into a chaos of class warfare, irrational urges and relativity, a world where the very existence of matter and meaning is in doubt. Why? Because it is the deepest impulse of the Jewish soul to unravel the very fabric of life until nothing is left but thread, nothing but nothingness. Nothingness without end...
guy		Are all Jews the same?
danny		Differences exist, of course, but they're irrelevant. For the Jew, his Jewishness dominates everything. Even the ones who renounce it, who hate it, who want to cut it out of their hearts a knife...can't escape. They're still just Jews.
guy		Danny, this is great. You're incredibly articulate. One more thing... How can you believe this when you're a Jew yourself?
danny		What? Excuse me?...  You're kidding, right?
guy		Do you know Rabbi Stanley Nadelman? He used to be at Congregation Beth Elohim in Ozone Park...?
danny		Who? How would I know him?
guy		He says you were bar mitzvahed there,
danny		You believe that? And you call yourself a reporter?
guy		So you're saying it's not true.
danny		Look at me.  DO I look Jewish?  Look...
guy		Were you ever bar mitzvahed anywhere else?
danny		Do you know who you're fucking with here?
guy		That's what I'm trying to find out, Danny. Who am I fucking with here?
danny		 Listen to me....
guy		Why would Nadelman lie?
danny		To discredit me. Because I know who they are. Look, I thought I explained it to you. Those people can say or do anything. And they will. It's all narrative to them, it's... Are you going to print what this guy said?
guy		Give me a reason not to.
danny		It's slander. It's reckless disregard. I'll sue you and your fucking Jew paper.
guy		Does that mean you deny what he says is true? Yes or no.
danny		Look at me. Look at me, Guy.... Oh, now you can't look at me? Look at me, you schmuck. Look at me....  You print that shit in the New York Times...I'll kill myself.
billings		Do we have to listen to this shit?
danny		Yes.
billings		Why'd we have to leave so fast?
carleton		Danny's running from the law.
billings		O.L., how come your mother gives you a car when you're too fucking blind to drive?
carleton		Hey, O.L., assholes at four o'clock.
carleton		I thought there were people here....
danny		I'll go look....
carleton		Yeah, you better stay here and guard it.
danny		We're from New York. Curtis Zampf invited us.
whit		Who?... Curtis who?
danny		Enough?
danny		Which was his room?
kyle		 Number ten.
danny		Yeah, I'm trying to reach Carla, is she?... Did she get my other message?... No, I'll call back....
various voices		Fucking niggers... Fucking niggers? Fucking gooks!...
whit		...Look, if Hitler had knocked out the RAF in '39, which he could easily, easily have done, he'd have taken England, and the U.S. wouldn't have had --
kyle		...A staging ground for the invasion, yeah. But he blew it going after civilian targets. Just like he blew the Russian front, diverting supplies to Auschwitz....
danny		Where's Mrs. Moebius?
kyle		Her place is down the road. But she just comes out for weekends sometimes.
danny		What is this, Stalingrad?
whit		Gettysburg. But we're refighting it with World War I technology. It's a fucking bloodbath.
kyle		That was unbelievable what you did to Lucas. The guy's an animal.
danny		You could do it.
kyle		Get out of here....
danny		You look right through him. He's there, but there's something on the other side of him that you want. It's all you want. And whatever's in the way doesn't matter.... Then it's easy.
danny		Either of you know anything about explosives?
kyle		Which one were you aiming at?
danny		The mother.
danny		Carla?... It's me, Danny...Danny Balint...? We met at that...[meeting at your house.]
carla's voice		Yeah, I remember.... Kill any Jews yet?
danny		I didn't realize you cared.
carla's voice		I don't. I was just curious how full of shit you were.
danny		Did you know that there was a New York Times reporter there that night?
carla's voice		Really, which one? I bet it was the guy with the Prada shoes.
danny		I didn't notice his shoes.... Did your mother know he was there?
carla's voice		I doubt it. How did you find out?
danny		He called me up. He wanted to talk to me about my ideas.
carla		I bet. He didn't realize that nobody who talks such a good game ever plays one.
danny		You weren't complaining about my play last time.
carla's voice		That's a much easier game.
danny		Why don't you come visit, we'll have a rematch.
carla		Too many good players down here. I'm with one right now.
danny		Oh, really?
carla		Bigger and better.
danny		Then how come you're talking to me?
carla's voice		I'm not.
carleton		Gas Chamber...
danny		 When are we going to do something?
first waiter		You know what you want?
billings		We sure do.
billings		Ham and cheese on white.
first waiter		 We don't have ham. We don't have cheese.
billings		What the hell do you have?
first waiter		That's what the menus are for.
first waiter		I said: no cheese.
first waiter		This is a kosher restaurant. We don't serve meat with dairy.
danny		What about chicken?
first waiter		That's meat.
danny		The Bible only says don't seethe a kid in its mother's milk. But chickens don't give milk.
first waiter		Look, you want cheese, go someplace else.
danny		But it's stupid, right? You admit it's stupid.
first waiter		No, I don't admit it's stupid.
danny		You can have chicken with eggs but not with milk. Why is that?
first waiter		I'm not here to talk about religious law, if you don't like --
danny		But you already talked about it: you said it's not stupid. Why isn't it stupid?
first waiter		 Steve...
danny		Steve's going to explain it.
steve		We have a problem here?
billings		We sure fucking do. We don't understand why you can't eat chicken with milk. It doesn't make sense.
steve		 Religion isn't about making sense. It's about --
danny		It's about the incomprehensible, Steve, not the idiotic.
steve		Fuck you.
danny		That explains it! Now we understand!
judge		...As the altercation appears to have been instigated equally on both sides, prison terms strike the court as excessive.
judge		However, the defendants' political views suggest that they might profit from contact with members of our community whose experiences differ from their own....
rumanian woman		...Everyone considered it my fault. After that, of course, I did anything he wanted.
billings		Why didn't he just rape you?
hate counselor		I hear one more remark like that, we go back to the court for resentencing.
rumanian woman		He was a pig, like you, so perhaps he had no taste.
hate counselor		Sit down, please.  Thank you, Mrs. Cohen. Mr Liebowitz, you indicated you had a story you wanted to tell....
polish man		...simply to assure him I was there. But the sergeant became enraged.... He stuck his bayonet in my son's chest, and lifted him up, impaled on it. My son was three years old....
polish man		...He held him up so that the blood spurting out of him feel on my face.... The soldiers were laughing.
danny		And what did you do?
hate counselor		What are you trying to say?
danny		What did you do while the sergeant was killing your son?
billings		Forget it, Danny, it's all bullshit.
hate counselor		Wait a second...
danny		 What did you do?
rumanian woman		What could he have done?
danny		What could he have done?? You fucking kikes...
hate counselor		You can't say that....
danny		The Nazi's killing his kid. He could've jumped the guy. He could've gouged his eyes out, grabbed the bayonet and gutted him.... What would you have done if they were killing your son?
hate counselor		 Please sit down.
danny		SO THEY SHOT HIM! SO HE WAS DEAD. SO WHAT. HE'S WORSE THAN DEAD NOW. HE'S A PIECE OF SHIT...
hate counselor		Okay, that's it. You're going back to --
danny		 What do you think you should have done?
polish man		And you, you think you know what you would have done? You have no idea. You can't even imagine what that was like. And you never will....
billings		Don't listen to them, Danny. It's all a bunch of crap.
ancient jew		What is crap?
billings		The so-called Holocaust. It never happened. It's the hoax of the twentieth century.
danny		 Oh, please...
billings		Danny, it's true. There were no six million. At most, two hundred thousand Jews died in the camps. And the majority of them were from disease and --
danny		Where did you read this? Robert Faurisson?
billings		 Yeah. He's a respected scholar. Even No-am Chomsky says he --
danny		Billings, if Hitler didn't kill six million, why is he your hero?... Concentration camps all over Europe, and he only gets rid of a measly two hundred thousand.... He's a putz.
ancient jew		Hitler was not a putz. Hitler was real. God created him to punish the Jews for abandoning God.
ancient jew		It is you who are putzes. Little pishas with your dreams of hatred and killing...
hate counselor		Where do you think you're going?
danny		...We have nothing to learn from these people. They should learn from us.
ancient		And what should we learn from you, Daniel?
danny		Kill your enemy.
danny		What is it?
kyle		Green dot -- shotgun powder. For pipe bombs.  A guy in a lumberyard gave it to me. A donation to the cause.
lina		My L's keep coming out as C's....
curtis		 The prisoner returns....
lina		Danny, get a drink and come talk to me.
curtis		...Insulting people who were in the camps. ...What's the point?
danny		They're liars and cowards.
curtis		I'm sure they are. But what do we accomplish by pointing it out?
danny		It's the truth....
lina moebius		Danny, what do you think of our troops?
danny		 They have guts. And they know what they hate...which is good. But they have no idea why; they don't think, they don't read.... They're on beer and crank half the time....
lina		The young people in this country... They're like pigs; all they want is happiness.... But one needs pigs sometimes.  Liebchen...
lina		Do you feel you're making progress here?
danny		You mean Ilio Manzetti?
lina		Forget Manzetti.... Take on something simple. Something you can actually accomplish.  Maybe he'd be more valuable in the city.
curtis		An urban type.
curtis		He's mad, Lina, you know that.
danny		Hello?
woman's voice		You know what today is?
danny		Linda... How did you get this number?
linda's voice		It's Mom's yartzeit.
danny		How did you get the fucking number?
linda's voice		I want you to say kaddish for her. It's the only thing she asked from us....
danny		I don't do that.
linda's voice		You do it on the inside....
danny		Don't tell me what I --
linda's voice		...I want you to do it on the outside, too.
danny		No!
linda's voice		Yes!
carla		Who's Linda?
danny		 Why won't you talk to me?
carla		I'm talking to you right now. Who's Linda?
danny		When can I see you?
carla		You can't.
carla		I have to go visit my father.
danny		Your father??
carla		He's at a home out here.
danny		I'm coming to your room tonight.
carla		No.
carla		Just after midnight. Five past... But don't come through the house, they'll hear you. I'm in the back bedroom, second floor. Climb onto the kitchen roof, I'll leave the window open.
large woman		Shabbat shalom.
large woman		Is anything wrong?
danny		Shut the fuck up.
danny		...Harriet Kantor Balint...
danny		 Eat shit....
danny		 EAT SHIT, ASSHOLES....
large woman		YOU EAT SHIT.
curtis		What are you reading?
curtis		Leo Strauss...  I've got to go to Boston. I came to say goodbye.
danny		What about Mrs. Moebius and...?
curtis		They left an hour ago.  How soon can you get back to the city?
danny		A week or so. There's something I want to do here first.
curtis		What's that?  Okay. Surprise us...
carleton		Jew World...!!
danny		 Shut up. Fuck you....
danny		Nothing. Where is it?  Okay, let's take one of these panels off so we can get under the bema...the stage.
danny		What are they doing?
danny		What are you doing? Put that down! ...Put it back in there.
billings		What do you care?
danny		I don't, but...
billings		 Let's look at the fucking thing.
danny		Put it there, on the...
danny		 Just be careful with the...
kyle		Open it up.
danny		 Here...
voices		Oooo... Weird... You read it from right to left.... The letters look like squashed bugs.... What kind of paper is that?
danny		It's not paper, it's parchment. It's made from sheepskin. And all the letters are drawn by hand.
kyle		Neat calligraphy.
danny		It's called the flame alphabet. It's supposed to be the word of God written in fire.
billings		Fire...
danny		The mystics tried to read the white spaces around the letters. They thought there was a whole alternative language hidden there, with secret, alternative meanings.
kyle		Cool.
billings		How come you know all this shit?
danny		How come you don't know it?  How can you say you hate the Jews when you don't know anything about --
billings		Fuck you. I hate the Jews at least as much as you do.
danny		No, you don't.... If you hated them, you'd study them, so you'd know why you hate them. You know what tefillin is? Tsitsis? Shotness? You know the kaddish from the kiddush?  Eichmann? He went to Israel. He studied the Torah, the Talmud, the Mishnah, the whole bit. He hated Jews.
carleton		Who's Eichmann?
danny		Who's Eichmann?!!?
kyle		He was head of the Gestapo's Jewish sector. He deported people to the camps.
carleton		 Can we touch it?
danny		Yeah, but not on the letters.
billings		Why the fuck not?
danny		 Just don't.
carleton		Didn't you see Raiders of the Lost Ark?
billings		What??
carleton		That was an ark, man. That was a Torah. They fucked around with it, and the Torah melted their faces.
billings		That's a movie, you moron.
carleton		Fine, go ahead. Touch the letters.
billings		Let me see.
danny		I said not on the --
danny		Stop it! What are you doing?
kyle		Let's get out of here.
danny		Shema yisrael adonai elohenu adonai echod.
carleton		What'd you say?
danny		Nothing. Let's go....
carleton		Why are you taking that?
danny		I'm stealing it.
newscaster voice		Channel 8's Cindy Pomerantz spoke to Rabbi Malcolm Weiss.
danny		 Oh, fuck you...
danny		Okay, everybody out. Get out.
danny		Alenu l'shab'ach la'adon hacol...
danny		What?
danny		 What do you want? What happened to your article?
drake		Park up there, we'll walk back.
drake		Lie on your stomach and come up on your elbows.
danny		Why me?
drake		You want to kill a Jew. I already did.
danny		Who'd you kill?
drake		Four. But no one this important.
drake		Okay, it's over. He'll take a couple questions, then come out.... Sight down the rifle toward the door.
danny		How did you know they were Jews?
drake		I can tell....
danny		How?
drake		I was a Jew in a previous life.
drake		Here they come.
danny		I'm a bad shot. I don't think I can --
drake		You missed on purpose.
danny		I didn't. I told you, I can't --
drake		What's that?
drake		I knew it.
danny		Oh, Jesus...Drake, are you okay...?
danny		...Since when?... Really? And he didn't call?... No, I don't know...
danny		Sure, come on down.... Can you bring my stuff?... Thanks...and if Drake shows up, let me know right away.... Good...
lina		How have things been going?
danny		 Fine.
lina		 We're about to launch an aboveground, intellectually serious fascist movement.
curtis		We want to build bridges to certain positions in the political mainstream: works like The Bell Curve, Sociobiology, anti-Zionism, anti- immigration, the com-munitarian issue.... We'll hold conferences: invite liberals, blacks, Jews. Chomsky, Cockburn, Stanley Crouch, Shahack....
danny		I've been waiting all my life for something like this.
danny		 Fund-raising??
danny		What about...Manzetti, the synagogues....
curtis		That doesn't seem to be happening, does it?
danny		I've been stuck out in the country with those guys who just want to paint swastikas and heil Hitler. How am I supposed to -- 
curtis		Danny, the night we met, you said the name Ilio Manzetti. We were impressed. We were excited. But here it is September, and Mr. Manzetti is still walking around breathing the air.
danny		I'm not an intellectual.... I mean, I read, but... Fund-raising isn't what I...
danny		Beth Shalom? It's Reform.
danny		They're not that Jewish.
voice		Here...
carla		Where'd you get this?
danny		I stole it. From a synagogue.
carla		How come there's no punctuation?
danny		That was a later invention, it's not in the scrolls.... Anyway, the Jews know where the sentences end. They know the whole thing by heart. Every word. Every letter.
carla		Do you know it like that? By heart.
danny		No.
carla		But you can read it, the Hebrew.... Right?
danny		What do you care?
carla		'Cause I want to know.... What is this word? This one here...
danny		Va-yomer... And he said.  It goes the other way.
danny		Va-yomer adonai el Avram: lech lecha mayartzcha oo-mimohlad-tcha oo-m'bayt avaycha el ha-ertez asher arecha...
carla		What's it mean?
danny		And God said to Avram, take yourself away from your land and from the place you were born and from your father's house into the land -- a different land -- and I will show you....
carla		I want to learn to read it.
danny		Why?
carla		Know your enemy.... 'Cause it's a basic text of Western culture. I want to read it in the original. Okay?
danny		Hebrew's very difficult. It would take years.
carla		I'm good at languages.
danny		Put something on. You're not supposed to be naked in front of it.
carla		Why not?
danny		They think it's the word of God, and it's holy, and the flesh isn't....
carla		That's stupid.
danny		Yeah, it's stupid.  Put it on, or I won't teach you.
danny		See, the Jews love to separate things: the holy from the profane, milk from meat, wool from linen, the Sabbath from the week, the Jew from the gentile.... As if one little scrap of this was going to completely contaminate that.
carla		What assholes.
danny		You can't curse in front of it either.
carla		Who gets contaminated, the Jews or the gentiles?
danny		Good question. Both.  Aleph...
carla		It looks a little like a swastika.
danny		It's silent. It holds a place, takes a vowel. The vowels are little dots that go under the letters.
carla		Where are they?
danny		They don't put them in the Torah. I'll get you a chumash, they'll have them there...Bet...Gimel...Dalid...Hay...  How come you're here instead of with Curtis? Besides the Hebrew lessons...
carla		The sex is better.
danny		Even though his dick is so big?
carla		With you there's a tragic dimension.
danny		Vuv...Zayin...Chet...Tet...
kyle		This will be a different kind of device.
danny		That damn thing. You know how it made me look...?
kyle		I'm sorry, Danny. It won't happen again. I'm going to use a brand-new power cell. Plus we'll have a back-up timer.
danny		I've gotta kill some Jews, Kyle. I'm serious. I'm always talking about it. This time it's gotta happen.
kyle		It will.
danny		What about Drake, did he ever show up?
kyle		No, it's weird, man. Nobody knows where he went.
father		 Excuse me, I'm sorry, just a moment...
father		 Please, sweetheart, you have to go. I'll see you soon.
voice		Hey, Danny...Danny...
young man		It's Stuart. Stuart Schoenbaum.
danny		Shlomo?
stuart		Yeah...
stuart		Jeez, it's been since, what, Kenny's wedding.
danny		Yeah, uh... So how are you? What's going on?
stuart		I'm in the rabbinic program at JTS...
danny		JTS...?
stuart		What about you? What are you doing? Something strange, I bet.
danny		I'm in a kind of...underground...thing.
stuart		 Are you an artist?
danny		No, no... Not that kind of... underground. More a private... business. Private.
stuart		You remember Miriam....
danny		Yeah, hey, how're you doing...
miriam		Hey...
stuart		She's at Yale Law -- interning with the district attorney...  We're getting married next spring. In Israel.
danny		Wow, that's uh...great...
stuart		It's great seeing you....
miriam		Maybe Danny'd like to come to the minyan for the holidays....
stuart		Oh, good idea. We're davening with this group from the seminary. Interesting people, very open-minded, you might like them. And guess who comes...Avi! You guys could go at it again like the good old days.
stuart		Danny and Avi used to argue about everything. Torah, Talmud, politics, girls. It always ended in a fistfight.
miriam		I remember.
danny		I always won.
miriam		The arguments, anyway.
stuart		 It's a K.I. on 101st. In the little chapel. Try to make it. It'd be fun.
brand		You write that?  Come work for me. You've got a lot to learn; I can teach it to you.
danny		I have a job.
brand		This? This is a joke.  I'll give your group a thousand bucks.
danny		You gave fifty thousand to that college magazine.
brand		Fifty's an exaggeration. Anyway, that was a different moment. Things were possible that aren't now.
danny		Actually, I think this moment has possibilities that --
brand		Yeah, I read your piece. It's very smart. And very wrong.
brand		Forget the Jewish stuff. It doesn't play anymore.  There's only the market, now, and it doesn't care who you are.
danny		People still need values, beliefs....
brand		No, they don't. Not the smart ones.  Look, I'll give you five grand if you can document your tax-exempt status.... But when you fall off this horse, come see me. I can show you how to make a lot of money.
danny		I don't care about money.
brand		You will.
danny		You're a Jew. Maybe you don't realize it, but you are.
brand		 Maybe I am. Maybe we're all Jews now. What's the difference?
danny		How many of you think of yourselves as anti-Semites?  Good. Actually, the term is a bit imprecise since technically Jews are only one of the Semitic peoples.... In fact, Arabs are Semites, as are the Eritreans, the Ethiopians, and so on.... But for our purposes an anti- Semite is someone who hates or is against Jews.... Now, why do we hate them?
danny		Let me put it another way. Do we hate them because they push their way in where they don't belong? Or because they're clannish and keep to themselves?
danny		...Because they're tight with money, or because they flash it around? Because they're Bolsheviks or because they're capitalists? Because they have the highest IQs, or because they have the most active sex lives?
danny		Do you want to know the real reason we hate them?...
danny		...Because we hate them.  There is no reason. If there were, some smart-ass kike would give us an argument, try to prove we were wrong. And of course that would only make us hate them more. In fact we have all the reasons we need in three simple letters: J-E-W. Jew. Say it a million times. It is the only word that never loses its meaning: Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew Jew....
kyle		 "My country 'tis of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I..."
voices		B'Rosh Hashanah yika-teyvun, uv'yom tsom kippur yey-chateymun...
woman		And it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham...
danny		 It's not his only son....
another voice		The only one he loves.
danny		They only kill them when they love them?
avi		 What are you doing here, I thought you were a Nazi.
stuart		Come on, Avi...
avi		You know what this guy told me once: Islam and Judaism both start with Abraham murdering his son: first sending Ishmael into the desert, then sacrificing Isaac....
voices		Shhhh... Can you please be quiet?
danny		And Christianity's the same, with minor variations.
avi		Ridiculous.  Folks, don't listen to this guy. He's a well-known anti-Semite.
miriam		Avi, please...
avi		 ...Look, he's a skinhead.
voices		It's just a style, Avi.... There are antiracist skins.
avi		 Believe me, Danny's the racist kind. Are you a fascist, Danny? Yes or no.
danny		What's a fascist?
avi		I rest my case. He's a Jewish Nazi. He always was.
danny		Whereas Avi's a Zionist Nazi.
avi		The Zionists aren't Nazis.
danny		They're racist, they're militaristic, they act like bullyboys in the territories....
avi		They don't have extermination camps.
danny		They had Sabra and Shattila.
miriam		Do you hate them because they're wimps or because they're bullyboys?
avi		 That was the Lebanese, that wasn't --
avi		You don't know that. There's no --
danny		Read the early Zionists on European Jewry; they sound like Goebbels.
avi		They sound like you.
danny		The Nazis did everything the fhrer told them. You do everything the Torah tells you. Or the rebbe. Identical slave mentality.
miriam		Why did you come tonight? To see me?
danny		 To hear them read Torah.
miriam		I thought you hated Torah.
danny		That doesn't mean I don't like hearing it.
miriam		Point out all the lies and fucked-up thinking.
miriam		You know the joke: a Jew's shipwrecked on a desert island. When they rescue him, they see he's built two synagogues. They say, for vhat do you need two synagogues? He says, vun to pray in, and vun I'd never set foot in so long as I live, so help me God.  You pray in the one you'd never set foot in...and vice versa.
danny		I can't help what I think.
miriam		This is me.
miriam		Tell me about Lina Moebius.
danny		 How did you...?
miriam		I work in the DA's office. You go to those meetings, half the people there are informants.
danny		You mean the Times guy?
miriam		Which Times guy?
danny		With the shoes... There was more than one?
miriam		Danny...Danny...  Shit...
carla		 Payn tash-chiton v'ashiytem...
danny		 V'asitem...
carla		V'asitem lechem pessel to-monat. And make no graven image of the Lord, or the form of any figure, or of man or woman, or beast or fowl or fish or anything that looks like anything. Because He's not like anything. Not only can't you see Him or hear Him, you can't even think about Him. I mean, what's the difference between that and Him not existing?
danny		 No difference.
carla		Christianity's silly, but at least there's something to believe in. Or not believe. Judaism there's nothing.
danny		 Nothing but nothingness...Judaism's not about belief.
carla		What's it about?
danny		About doing things. You light candles, say prayers, keep the Sabbath, visit the sick....
carla		And belief follows?
danny		No. Nothing follows. You don't do it because it's smart or stupid or it saves your soul. You're not saved. Nobody's saved. You do it because the Torah tells you do. You submit to the Torah.
carla		Fuck that.
danny		Don't curse in front of it.
carla		 Why should I submit?
danny		You shouldn't.
carla		You think I should just because there's no reason?
danny		No, I think you shouldn't.
carla		Judaism doesn't even need God. You have the Torah, the law. That's your fucking God....  The book's closed.
danny		You're learning the Hebrew really fast.
carla		I told you, I'm good at this.
danny		Plus you have nothing else to do all day.
carla		Oh, am I learning it faster than you did? Maybe I'm smarter.
carla		Is that funny? You think Jews are the only smart ones?
danny		What...? You think I'm Jewish?
carla		It's all you talk about. Jewish, Jewish, Jewish. Nobody talks about it that much except the Jews.
danny		Nazis talk about it all the time.
carla		Do they?
danny		The real Nazis. Hitler, Goebbels, they talked about Jews incessantly.... You ever read their diaries?...
carla		Is that why you became a Nazi? So you could talk about Jews incessantly?
danny		Believe me, Adolf Hitler couldn't possibly have hated the Jews as much as I do. Not in a billion years. You know why?
carla		'Cause he wasn't a rabbi.
danny		You want a punch in the mouth?
carla		Okay...  Why don't we light candles on Friday? Let's light candles.... And say the kaddish.
danny		Kaddish is the prayer for the dead.
carla		I mean kiddush. Let's say kiddush. And shave my head, fuck through a sheet, all that stuff...  Come on, just for fun. To see what it's like...
danny		We tested the new bomb.
danny		We redesigned the timing mechanism. It can't possibly malfunction.
danny		Shema yisroel adonai elohenu adonai echod.
danny		Who knows what that is?
voice		A Jewish prayer.
danny		Can anybody imagine why I would say a Jewish prayer?
another voice		Because you're a Jew.
danny		That could be one reason. What's another?  Who wants to grind their bones into the dust?
danny		And who wants to see them rise again, wealthier, more successful, powerful, cultured and intelligent than ever?
danny		Then you know what you have to do?... You have to love them.
danny		Did he say love them? Love the Jews? It sounds strange, I know, but with these people nothing is simple. The Jew says that all he wants is to be left alone to study his Torah, do a little business and fornicate with his over-sexed wife.... But it isn't true. He wants to be hated. He longs for our scorn. He clings to it as if it were the very core and mystery of his being. If Hitler had not existed, the Jews would have invented him. For without such hatred, the so-called Chosen People would vanish from the earth....
danny		...And this reveals a terrible truth, the crux of our problem as Nazis: the worse the Jews are treated, the stronger they become. Egyptian slavery made them a nation; the pogroms hardened them, Auschwitz gave birth to the State of Israel. Suffering, it seems, is the very crucible of their genius. If the Jews are, as one of their own has said, a people who will not take yes for an answer, then let us say yes to them. If they thrive on opposition, let us cease to oppose them. The way to annihilate them, utterly and completely, is to open our arms, take them into our homes and embrace them. Only then will they vanish into assimilation, dilution...and love.  But we cannot pretend. The Jew is nothing if not clever. He will see through condescension and hypocrisy. To destroy him, we will have to love him sincerely.
guy		But if the Jews are strengthened by hate, wouldn't this "destruction" you speak of -- by love or by any other means -- in fact make them more powerful than they are already?
danny		 Yes. Infinitely more. They would become as God.
danny		It is the Jews' destiny to the annihilated so that they can be deified....  So, let us say together... Shema yisroel...
danny		I was just trying to make a point. If --
danny		You can't. Do you know how many people I've brought into...the movement...?
danny		 Who was it?
anchor's voice		Ilio Manzetti was one of the respected and influential men in New York. As an investment banker, diplomat, adviser to presidents and mayors, he helped shape public policy and private finance for more than three decades. He'll be missed, Phil.
danny		 Do you think I...
anchor's voice		The assailant is described as a white male in his late 20s....
danny		Kyle...I can't talk right now....
guy		Did you kill Ilio Manzetti?
danny		No.
photographer		Not the camera, don't hurt the camera...
guy		Did you kill him?
guy		Two days ago you addressed a Nazi rally. Last week you went to a Torah study group.
danny		What were you, following me?
guy		How do you reconcile the two?
danny		I don't. Look, stay out of what you don't understand.
guy		Explain it so I can.
danny		You work for the New York Times. Your whole job in life is not to understand things like me.
guy		I don't think you know what you are.
danny		 Yeah, and what are you? A Times man? A Presbyterian? Impotent? A prick?
guy		Who killed Manzetti?
danny		If I tell you, will you pull the story? Not write about me?
guy		It's too late.... If I didn't, somebody else would.  Yom Kippur starts at sundown. Will you go to synagogue?
danny		 Get the fuck away from me.
voice		Hey, Danny, just one more!
miriam		You're telling me you killed him? You? Killed him? Bullshit. What kind of gun did you use?
danny		 A forty-five.
miriam		It was a nine millimeter.
danny		You're lying.
miriam		So are you... But they'll believe you....  Ah, Jesus, Danny... What were you thinking? Are you glad Manzetti's dead? Do you really want to kill Jews? You want to kill me?
danny		I was just talking. I -- look, I can't help what I think.
miriam		All right, what if all along you were actually infiltrating the Nazis -- to expose them....
danny		But I wasn't.
miriam		And only talked about killing Manzetti to convince them you were an anti-Semite. If you'd had any idea somebody would take it seriously, you never would have said it.
danny		I can't say that.
miriam		Think about your father. Your sister.
danny		The truth doesn't mean anything to you, does it?
miriam		Danny, I'm trying to -- save you.
danny		 Fucking kike.
miriam		Try to get Lina Moebius on tape, telling you to do something. Something violent... That's right, I don't care about truth. I care about you.  Kol Nidre's at six-thirty. I've got to meet Stuart. We'll be at the minyan tonight and tomorrow. If you need me, come there....
danny		What's going on?
carla		It's erev Yom Kippur.... We'll have dinner, then go to shul. Atone for our sins.
carla		Come on, we can be like Eichmann. He studied Torah. He hated Jews.
danny		 Is it like Eichmann? Are we goofing?
carla		I don't know. I just want to try it.
danny		Shit...  Did you talk to your mother today?
carla		No. What are you looking for?
danny		Nothing.  I thought God didn't exist.
carla		He commands it whether He exists or not...  Look, we can fight him and be crushed. Or we can submit.
danny		 And be crushed.
carla		Yeah, okay. But what if...what if... submitting...being crushed, being nothing, not mattering, what if that's the best feeling we can have?
carla		Look, just light the candles with me. Then we'll eat. You have to eat.
danny		You eat first, then you light.  Once you light, it's Yom Kippur, which means you're fasting, so you can't...eat.
danny		A woman of valor, who can find her? Her price is above rubies....
danny		Miriam, it's me, Danny.... Come on, the holiday hasn't started, pick up the --  ...Is Stuart davening Ne'ilah tomorrow at the minyan... 'Cause he always does... Tell him I'm doing it instead....
danny		Miriam, I'm davening.... He gives me any trouble, I'll beat the shit out of him right there in the room. I'm serious....
lina		Why didn't you tell us?
drake		 I was hurt. I just...
billings		He went to his friends' place and I laid up there 'til he was better. Then he called me.
curtis		You should've gone to the police.
lina		I don't think Drake wants to talk to the police. Do you?
drake		I'll take care of him myself.
curtis		Daniel Balint.
lina		 Hello...?
danny		Lina... It's happening. Tonight.
lina		What is happening?
danny		Beth Shalom. Like you wanted.
lina		Beth Shalom? What are you talking about? Who is this...?
danny		Lina, you said if I was going to plant a bomb, I should --
nazi soldier		 Kill him!
danny		How're we doing?
kyle		That's all we've got left.
danny		It'll be enough if we use it right.  Okay, the service'll go about another hour. Say an hour for the janitors, then one more just to be safe... We'll go in at midnight.
kyle		Didn't you get anything?
danny		I'm not hungry.... Come on, let's drive around.... We don't want to be spotted here.
lina		 He is trying to set us up.
lina		 I want him dead by tomorrow night. That lies within your capacities, correct?
curtis		 Yes, I believe that a bomb is going to be planted tonight at Temple Emanu-el on 65th Street.... By the same man who killed Ilio Manzetti... His name is Daniel Balint....
danny		I have an idea....
kyle		It's all reinforced in here. It's not going to blow out the way we want it....
kyle		If I went back to the lumberyard, the guy'd give me all the dynamite I wanted. Untraceable, you wouldn't -- need to...
danny		No, it has to be tomorrow. You won't get this many of them in here for another year. It'll be fine.
kyle		It's not going to be fine. It's --
danny		Just do it.
kyle		What's that?
danny		It's just somebody on the street.
kyle		When do you want it to go off?
danny		Seven-thirty tomorrow evening.
kyle		So that's what? Nineteen thirty minutes...what time is it now...
reporter		...You're saying that when he first appeared at your house, you had no idea he was Jewish....
reporter		What do you mean?
reporter		In the Third Reich, weren't a number of high-ranking Nazis of Jewish origin?
reporter		The papers are going to report tomorrow that your colleague, Curtis Zampf, has been a federal informant for the past two years. Do you believe that?
reporter		 And so, on this, the most solemn day of the Jewish year, a former yeshiva student is being sought in connection with a monstrous hate crime that --
danny		Gamar tov.
voice		...They cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah...
danny		 What are you doing here?
carla		Miriam called, looking for you. She said you might come, so I...
danny		You gotta get out of here.
carla		You don't own this place.
stuart		Listen, Danny, you can't just barge in and --
danny		Shut up...
miriam		You shut up. Who do you think you are?
danny		 There's a bomb here. It's going to go off at seven-thirty.
carla		Oh, please...
voices		It's Yom Kippur.... People are davening.... Can you take it outside.... You have some nerve....
stuart		Danny, listen, people expect me to daven; they don't want someone they don't know -- leading their prayers.
danny		Get out of my way.
murmuring voices		What's going on?... Who is this?...I thought Stuart was davening....
danny		Yis-gadal, v'yis-kadash sh'mey raba...
enraged man		Jesus Christ, you know who that is?... You see the paper?
enraged wife		I saw the paper. That's not him, that guy was darker.... This is somebody else.
enraged man		You want to bet? I'll bet you anything...  Let's go, we're leaving....
enraged wife		Oh, for God's sake, you leave.
enraged man		I'm going to get a cop.
danny		Da-amiran b'alma, v'imru amen...
billings		I got one....
kyle		Are you kidding me??
billings		Now do you know where he is?
kyle		Yeah, I bet I do.
danny		Wait a minute...
danny		Stop praying. You've got to get out of here.... All of you...
stuart		You wanted to daven. Now daven....
people		 Who's that?... What is he...oh, my God...
avi		 Put down the weapon. Put it down....
danny		Drake! Up here...
enraged man		See, he knows him. The Nazi bastard...
danny		 Get everybody out of here. Fast.
danny		Drake...
voices		Avinu malkenu, choney-nu v'aneyenu... Avinu malkenu, choney-nu v'aneyenu, ki eyn banu ma-asim...  -- nu va-aneynu...
danny		Drake, I'm right here....
enraged man		 Let them kill each other. They're animals.
enraged wife		Barry, for God's sake...
carla		Danny!
danny		GET HER OUT OF HERE!
voices		Cha'nainu v'anainu, ki ain baw-nu ma'ah-seem...
voices		 ...Asey imanu tz'dakah va'chesed... Asey imanu tz'dakah va'chesd, v'ho- shi --
carla's voice		Danny, no...
rav zingesser		Danny, good to see you...I wanted to take up that discussion we were having...  ...about Abraham and Isaac.
danny		I can't right now....
zingesser		You remember what you said, that Isaac actually died on Mt. Moriah? I've been thinking maybe you're right... Died yet was reborn in olam ha-bah....
zingesser		Danny, stop...  ...Where are you going?... Don't you know, there's nobody up there?
****Dialogues from script :Belle.txt****

lady mary		Elizabeth Murray, bring yourself back here this very moment!
lord mansfield		What in God's name have you done!!
lord mansfield		A detail you chose NOT to share.
lord mansfield		 Captain Sir John Lindsay, do you find me a fool? She is a MULATTO!
lord mansfield		How do we raise her...?
lord mansfield		She takes your name?
lady mary		We cannot have another Elizabeth in the household. LADY MANSFIELD regards the child, then looks to her husband, gravely. He turns his back - aggrieved.
lady mansfield		We...we will call her Dido.  Good Lord, she is thin. Mary, find her something to eat. LORD MANSFIELD storms from the room. LADY MANSFIELD follows. LINDSAY kneels, choked with emotion.
lady mary		You little....
lord mansfield		D'you see here...? This..this is your grandfather, Sir Alexander Lindsay of Evelick.
dido		Elizabeth's papa.
lord mansfield		Indeed. He discovered her mother aboard a captured Spanish slave ship. He was charged with conveying it back to these shores, he tells me. LADY MANSFIELD Evidently he had some...`feeling' for the woman. LORD MANSFIELD  Elizabeth was much in need of a companion.
lady mansfield		And that is what we shall say when questions are asked of us? LORD MANSFIELD We shall say that in accordance with her birthright, she is entitled to live beneath this roof.  Such...is the nature of `order'.
lady mansfield		And where in this `order' should her colour be placed? Below or above her Murray bloodline? ...NOT...in company. We cannot escape society's confines on etiquette LADY MANSFIELD Marriage?
lord mansfield		Impossible. Any match her..'other origins' may attract would surely disgrace her and the family rank. LADY MANSFIELD And when we are no longer here? No husband - who will take care of her? He rubs his eyebrows, perturbed, turns back to the lawns.
reverend davinier		...for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth. So saith Christ the Lord. Amen. CONGREGATION Amen.  A FLAME as a YOUNG MAN lights a candle by the altar. He sings, choir-like, the word `amen' rather than simply saying it. REVEREND DAVINIER Hymn no. 76. ON the MANSFIELDS as the congregation begins to sing.
dido		Have I wronged you, Papaa?
lord mansfield		You have done no such thing.
lord mansfield		I have not past experience in the ways of breaking grave news to you. He hands her a letter and she reads. A beat, as the news resonates through her, silently. Her pained gaze slowly rises to meet LORD MANSFIELD'S.
dido		 I thought I should one day have the opportunity to make his better acquaintance. LORD MANSFIELD Yes.   I know.
elizabeth		Two thousand pounds a year? ELIZABETH sits at the edge of the bed in day clothes. DIDO nods, her back to us as she stares out through the window. ELIZABETH  Then you are an heiress! He has left you your fortune!
dido		He did not know me.
elizabeth		My father's new wife wishes him to leave me not a thing, and he obliges her.
dido		Then it is her cruelty you should lament, Bette, not his stupidity. ELIZABETH I think he might have loved me more if Mamaa had not died.
dido		 I...I think love must be a very complicated thing.  ELIZABETH lifts her head to look across at DIDO. ELIZABETH Dido - with such a dowry you may marry into any good family you wish. OFF DIDO as she stares at the ceiling, daunted.
elizabeth		Visitors? Who ever bothers to visit us here? DIDO Or leave... except the dead!
dido		I will do your hair, Bette. Oh say we may wear them, Aunt Mary.
lady mary		You will not be dining with us, Dido.
dido		 Yes of course. But I may join after dinner, may I not?
lady mary		Yes. Such are the rules, and you know them well.
lord mansfield		Dinner with guests is a formal proceeding, Dido - we simply cannot impose the disregard of those formalities upon visitors. DIDO But...Papaa, am I not..'wealthy', now...an heiress? Surely that changes matters... LORD MANSFIELD 
elizabeth		There you are. I have been searching for you! LADY MANSFIELD  What a wretched countenance!
lady mary		She deplores my authority. What am I in this household, if not the `observer of rules'?!
elizabeth		I would rather dine with Dido!
lady mansfield		What a great pity
lady mansfield		Our young gentlemen guests shall miss you, Elizabeth. Both girls' eyes widen - DIDO's with disappointment.
lady mansfield		And most agreeable by all accounts! ELIZABETH'S mouth falls open. LADY MARY leans toward her.
lady mary		Close your mouth and understand: There shall be no discussions tonight in any languages other than English! No whisperings in gentlemen's ears - not in Latin, Italian...and certainly not French!
elizabeth		I said...`Your hands have the suggestion of a sensitive man'. She wrinkles her nose, minxish. Across the table... LADY ASHFORD I must say, the entire country barely breathes awaiting your judgement on this appeal. Terrified you shall destroy England, no doubt. I know Lord A is. He does wonder though, what can be taking you...so long? LORD MANSFIELD  Your husband of all people knows this. LADY MARY My brother is not a man of rash instinct. LADY MANSFIELD For that we are all grateful.
lady ashford		What a lot of fuss over dead cargo. LORD MANSFIELD It is a fuss over the bread and butter of a great many in these isles. A great many, Lady Ashford.  OFF LORD MANSFIELD'S distaste....
wimbridge		Miss Lindsay? DIDO There are poachers wandering...! The sound of the echoing doorbell, jolting DIDO. Her eyes dart to the door. WIMBRIDGE hesitates, then answers.
dido		Sir, I do not believe we have been introduced! JOHN takes hold of himself, half mortified, half irritated. JOHN Indeed. I...I...  Please inform the lady of my apologies for startling her. I took advantage of the back fields, by way of a short-cut to deliver this to Lord Mansfield... from my father.
wimbridge		Sir? He hands WIMBRIDGE an envelope. JOHN Reverend Davinier.
wimbridge		Of course, sir. I will see that he gets it immediately...
john		Yes, of course...thank you. He backs away. DIDO still shows him nothing but her back.
wimbridge		Good night, sir. He moves off, and is gone as DIDO finally turns, stares at the closed door, flushed.
lord mansfield		Dido...my dear.
lady ashford		 ...a lady.
oliver		Capital! LADY ASHFORD I hadn't expected her to look so...black. OLIVER Mamaa, did you not listen to the rumours when you were spreading them? DIDO curtseys respectfully to LORD MANSFIELD. LORD MANSFIELD May I present to you the second of my nieces - Miss Dido Lindsay.
oliver		A pleasure, Miss Lindsay.
elizabeth		 He is the eldest - to inherit the entire Ashford fortune. He is also to inherit from his uncle - a healthy man, who shows little sign of departure.
dido		How do you know?
elizabeth		Lady Ashford herself. She seems rather despondent at her brother's robust constitution.
james		I find her repulsive. OLIVER I suppose she is...if you find a most rare and exotic flower so. She is quite something to behold.
james		One does not make a wife of the rare and exotic, Oliver. One samples it on the cotton fields of the Indies...
oliver		So far, when it is right at my door?
james		...Then finds a pure ENGLISH rose to decorate one's home. OLIVER smiles. OFF both men - trained on DIDO.
lady mansfield		 Any day now.
oliver		She is an heiress. A seamless change of heart for LADY ASHFORD. LADY ASHFORD Although exceptions can be made.
oliver		It is said that her father left her a rather vast fortune.
lady ashford		I mean to say, if that is your inclination.
oliver		She is rather soft on the eye - I have thought no further Mamaa.
lady ashford		From where did you receive your information? OLIVER Her sister-cousin has a rather fast tongue.
oliver		Oh do not be selfish with your good fortune, m'lord! A beat...then put on the spot, LORD MANSFIELD caves, throwing up his hands, helplessly.
lady ashford		 Hers was a most diligent governess.
lady mansfield		Well, that, at least, is true,  Indeed, it is Elizabeth who needs to secure her bread and butter.
elizabeth		A portrait? Are you sure?
dido		Yes...Aunt Mary has confirmed it.
elizabeth		Good Lord. How...truly wonderful.
dido		But...but... ELIZABETH  But what, Dido?
lord mansfield		 Miss Lindsay.
lord mansfield		Decide what? She is hesitant now, awkward in JOHN'S presence.
dido		If he should...should WANT to paint me!
lord mansfield		The man is to be paid a fortune. What is there to decide?
dido		But...
lord mansfield		Dido, you are to simply sit still. Not a challenging task! DIDO  Next...next to Elizabeth...?
lord mansfield		As you always are - right beside one another. DIDO's chest heaves with distress. JOHN Should...should not any lady be flattered to be such a subject?
john		Quite! Though one should be forgiven for thinking he was in the presence of a lady - when she is, in fact, still a juvenile! DIDO Papaa, may we do this in private!
lord mansfield		Not now, no! You may return the books to the library. DIDO Papaa...!
john		I am no member of the nobility - I have little, but...where my father relies on the bible, I...I wish to rely on the law courts. LORD MANSFIELD You aspire to the judiciary?
lord mansfield		Noble if not pompous! A country lawyer, you may make - perhaps! If you pay every regard to what you are taught - but you have neither the rank nor finances for any more!
john		 If I may, m'lord - neither did you!
lord mansfield		I beg your pardon?
john		Well...as a fourth son, you had rank but not the income to pay for your qualification to the Inns.
john		That I do not know, M'lord. I have not yet been afforded those considerations...but I know a country life does not suit me.
john		Silence speaks volumes. Elizabeth approaches, calls out, as she curtseys.
elizabeth		Papaa's new student.
john		Indeed! DIDO Mr Davinier, my cousin, Elizabeth. JOHN A pleasure.
dido		 Truth is, there have been more of your sex at Kenwood this week, than I've previously seen in all my entire life! DIDO flushes.
john		Hopefully we have not disappointed! ELIZABETH On the contrary! She raises a minxish eyebrow and moves off. Awkward silence.
dido		Mr Davinier, what...what is the importance of the Zong... why is the case before Papaa's court, the supreme court...? He searches her, taken aback.   Why is she asking him?
john		Well...  It is a cargo ship.
dido		I...I am aware of that.
john		A human-cargo ship. DIDO hesitates, tentative.
dido		Oh. You said those who were drowned.
john		It lost most of its slaves before arriving at its destination.  Drowned - by the crew on the captain's order.
dido		But...why?
maid		Miss, your supper is served now in the ladies' parlour.
dido		Thank you. JOHN hesitates, struck with confusion at the maid's words. DIDO becomes awkward. LADY MANSFIELD emerges, disappearing into the dining room. LADY MANSFIELD Mr Davinier, will you be joining us for dinner? JOHN's eyes dart to DIDO - sees her unease. It pierces him.
john		I..er...I thank you, Madam, but I am promised to the company of my aunt this evening. She has recently moved to the cottage at Belsize. LADY MANSFIELD Of course - as you wish.
john		Forgive me...but twice now I have seen...I have seen you separated from the gathering. DIDO's cheeks begin to burn.
dido		No. It's a statement of mine!
lord mansfield		I cannot disagree. JOHN One hundred and thirty two drowned on route from Africa to the West Indies. Your ruling could bring the slave trade to its knees - entirely destroy an economic foundation of these lands.  Is that pressure not maddening, m'lord? LORD MANSFIELD reigns in his horse. He quotes in Latin.
lord mansfield		Justitia fiat, ruat coelum, Mr Davinier - Let justice be done, though the heavens may fall. JOHN The insurance claim states, the slaves were thrown overboard for the safety of the ship - that there wasn't sufficient water for the cargo and crew to survive the rest of the voyage. LORD MANSFIELD It does.
john		Then, if I am correct, the case hangs on...
lord mansfield		...IT HANGS on `Absolute necessity'. If the cargo was spoiled... JOHN Cargo? LORD MANSFIELD adjusts his language.
lord mansfield		If the killing of the..'negros' was truly `necessary' in order to save the ship - as the captain contends.
john		With due respect... I should question, whether 'human' life should have been insurable as cargo - at all. The air turns cold.
lady mary		A gentleman rather like him once paid me much interest. ELIZABETH Mr Davinier? LADY MANSFIELD  Really, Mary? DIDO lays each Dahlia carefully.
lady mary		Do not look at me like that! It was my Mamaa who intervened. I thought he had a very great sense of duty. Overly kind at times but... LADY MANSFIELD watches as though she knows the rest.
dido		 But...what, Aunt Mary?
lady mary		Engaged! ELIZABETH Is he? LADY MANSFIELD Mr Beresford's daughter.
elizabeth		The carriage-maker! He might have set his sights a little higher! AS JOHN marches toward the back entrance of the house. He nods to the ladies. A self-conscious beat between he and DIDO, her back to him - as he disappears inside.
zoffany		To the window, Miss Lindsay DIDO favours the window a little more...Soft sunlight pours onto her skin.
john		I...I was curious... DIDO Quite a task - to sit for so many                       * hours...... Congratulations! I learned of your..your match..yesterday.                            * JOHN Thank you. He falters slightly, swallows hard - not all is well.
john		Perhaps yours is a life less concerned with such matters. DIDO Why do you judge me so? He studies her. She is tentative.
john		Are you at utter disconnect from everything?! He searches her, making her feel very small and ashamed. As he moves off, she stares after him, distressed.
dido		Mr Davinier...please. Tell me. Tell me what you know!
john		I can only tell you what I believe.
dido		 And what...what is that?
john		The slaves were intentionally drowned, that is not in question. Chained! Thrown into the waters - chained together as one. 
john		Yes. They are challenging the decision of the lower court - refusing to pay for murdered slaves.
dido		Thank you.
elizabeth		There you are! DIDO is frozen, says nothing. ELIZABETH stares from the doorway - why does DIDO look so strange? ELIZABETH  We are requested. You - drawing room. I, relegated to the ladies' Palour!
lady mansfield		We are to attend London for the Season. ELIZABETH'S eyes are wide.
dido		We are to finally `come out'??
dido		But why? LORD MANSFIELD You understand the ways of this world for a female, Dido. Elizabeth has no income. When all this is gone to her father, I have nothing to leave her.
dido		And me?
lord mansfield		Dido, you are well taken care of - Of this, you are well aware.
lady mansfield		Lord knows I will need you both to keep each other out of trouble.
dido		Papaa... LORD MANSFIELD You are not to be denied, Dido.
dido		Are...are you punishing me? LORD MANSFIELD Punishing you!! Dido, you are most cherished. Most loved. Why ...why would you say such a thing? DIDO Because...
john		Because they were! Those slaves were diseased - some were already dying - yes. But it was essential they die ON the journey or they would not come under insurance consideration! Neither too, if they had expired of their diseases - That is why they were killed - this we all know!
lord mansfield		You have entered my home and utterly taken advantage of the confidential matters afforded you.
john		These `matters' have been for public consumption for months. Miss Lindsay is no child...no.. fool!
lord mansfield		 Her precious care is in my hands and I will decide when she is ready for such realities. Not the son of a vicar! A vicar who, incidently purchased his living from me!
john		I shall gather my belongings. LORD MANSFIELD Do so! LORD MANSFIELD turns his back on JOHN to glare at the lawns JOHN calmly collects his books, jacket, hat. He hesitates.
john		Your Lordship, a question? LORD MANSFIELD swings round ready to bite.. LORD MANSFIELD WHAT, Mr Davinier!
john		As the mere son of a vicar - I wonder whether the value you extend to your very precious mulatto niece - well I wonder if it amounts to MORE...or LESS than the thirty pounds insurance the traders are asking for each life they murdered? ON LORD MANSFIELD'S cold stare.   He swallows hard.
lord mansfield		Mr Davinier. JOHN stops, turns to LORD MANSFIELD.
elizabeth		John Davinier is leaving very early today! DIDO moves to the window. Her POV: JOHN on horseback as he disappears over the brow. ELIZABETH, LADIES MANSFIELD and MARY watch as LORD MANSFIELD storms past the doorway.- all is not well, they can tell. LORD MANSFIELD's gaze locks with DIDO through the doorway - he falters, moves on. OFF DIDO's realisation - JOHN is not coming back .
elizabeth		I could fall in love with such a man, Dido. LADY MARY Love?
dido		Relieved?
elizabeth		That you shan't be at the caprice of some silly Sir and his fortune!  The rest of us haven't the choice! Not a chance of inheritance if we have brothers and forbidden from any activity that allows us to support ourselves.
lady mansfield		Light the fires for dinner, will you, Thomas. ON MABEL as she catches DIDO'S stare, forcing DIDO to avert her gaze quickly, turning her back to distance herself.
mabel		Some bed socks for you, Miss Murray, Miss Lindsay. It's not as warm as we hoped tonight
mabel		Can I help you with that, Miss Lindsay?
cut to:		Candle lit faces... DIDO's reflection in the mirror - her hair separated into four sections. In the reflection BG, ELIZABETH sits serenely watching MABEL brushing through each section from ends to roots.
lady mansfield		Promise me you will change that vulgar teal paint, if you ever become lady of this home. It is positively wanting, Elizabeth.
lady ashford		Grenadine syrup... LADY MARY And port!! LADY MANSFIELD Which has gone to my head already!
dido		What a dreadful shame.
dido		Thank you. He places it in the water, stands and examines DIDO. From afar, LADY MANSFIELD watches. OLIVER Miss Lindsay, would you do me the honour of taking some air with me, some time? DIDO is dumbstruck - what to say? JAMES is halted. JAMES Don't you care what people will say
james		That he should compromise a lady's reputation by stepping out with her - scarcely having made her acquaintance! OLIVER I think you are a great deal too anxious, brother. We should merely take a turn around Vauxhall. DIDO observes JAMES - His protestation is bitter. She traces OLIVER'S features, warmly. DIDO I should be delighted, Mr Oliver! Most delighted.
lady mansfield		 I am not at ease with this. Lord Mansfield would be most aggrieved. LADY ASHFORD Oh it can do no harm. This is simply two families, enjoying a day together. LADY MANSFIELD takes an unhappy breath, burdened.
oliver		Well I did not think I would ever find a lady who was not to be conquered or ignored...Until you. DIDO Ah now how do I know this is not just another tactic in your battle to conquer? He stops, takes her hand and places it on in his chest.
oliver		See how my heart beats.
oliver		He cannot overlook your mother's origins, as I do. Foolish. Why should anyone even pay her regard when your better half has equipped you so well with loveliness and privilege.
dido		What a lovely sound.
oliver		You are unrelentingly cultured. Come, let's find it! He takes her waist spinning her round with him into another pathway, disappearing from the others, giggling as they go.
lady mansfield		People will think she has no family! LADY ASHFORD. People will think they are courting! LADY MANSFIELD and LADY MARY exchange a look. LADY MARY is somehow softened - her eyes appeal to LADY MANSFIELD...
lady mary		Let her enjoy his society. LADY MANSFIELD is effected - reads MARY'S emotion. 61.2: An open pavilion with classical concert. ON OLIVER and DIDO watching.
oliver		I might only have dreamed of these moments, at one time.
john		Miss Lindsay. DIDO  Mr Davinier. How...how nice to see you.
john		And you, Miss Lindsay. He looks to OLIVER.
dido		Forgive me - Mr Ashford, may I present to you...Mr Davinier. 
dido		Elizabeth and Mamaa are here... in fact.
cut to:		61.3. The spit and bang of spectacular fireworks. OLIVER stands engrossed as the sky lights up. DIDO looks up at him. She wavers. Then...slowly she backs away from the crowd
john		 Miss Lindsay, you are alone!!
dido		I did not have the chance to see you before you left...Mr Davinier ...to convey my apologies.
john		Apologies...?
dido		Your pupilage. Father would never have ended it...you...you never would have had to leave Kenwood were it not...
john		He would make mine a living hell, were he to know of us speaking. DIDO tugs him into a quiet lane, away from the concert and promenading.
dido		What are you doing here in London Mr Davinier? JOHN I am under a third cousin - a solicitor, here. Nothing more than petty disputes between unsavoury landlords and debauched tenants, but I cannot discount it. DIDO Not what you wished for. JOHN I haven't given up on The Inns. Nothing worth having in life comes easily. DIDO  Where are my manners? I trust the future Mrs Davinier is well.
john		Very well...thank you.
dido		I have tried to keep up - with the Zong. These past weeks. JOHN  What price, a worthless Negro.
john		 I am with others here. We are all students in law - applying pressure on the insurance companies to refuse from here on to insure slaves on any ship. A simple clause. DIDO But that would require a change of law. I know nothing but...
john		A change in law - something the insurance companies can lobby for IF they can be persuaded to band together.  Someone has to have the courage. How can we expect to be civilised if we live in a barbaric world. His words wind her as JOHN shakes his head, frustrated. She takes him in - he is so very handsome!
dido		No we cannot risk it. He nods - studies her.... JOHN Good bye, Miss Lindsay.  I suspect, we will never see each other again. The thought strikes DIDO, uneasily. DIDO Good bye, Mr Davinier.
dido		Quite.
oliver		I did not dare return to Lady Mansfield without you.
dido		 I..I am terribly sorry. I thought I saw the others, I went after them....and found myself lost. OLIVER studies her - she is so nervous...what is she hiding? A moment - then his eyes become forgiving.
cut to:		61.7 ON LADIES MANSFIELD, MARY, ASHFORD, seated on a bench. LADY MANSFIELD It's almost dark!
lady ashford		Look, here are James and Miss Murray. ELIZABETH and JAMES approach, sit on the bench opposite. ELIZABETH I do hope you know how well I think of you.
james		As I do you.
elizabeth		Then I hope, Sir, you plan to honour your attentions...as not to would leave me looking... quite foolish. JAMES And I should not call myself a gentleman! Satisfaction washes over her. As DIDO and OLIVER appear, LADY     * MANSFIELD lets our a cry of relief, goes to say something -       * LADY ASHFORD lays a finger across LADY MANSFIELD's lips.          *
lady ashford		Say nothing! This has all been for the good of the future, I assure you!
lady ashford		She will need a gentleman who can temper her. Quite a task.
lady mansfield		 Do I sense that an address is finally to be made? LADY ASHFORD goes carefully...
lady ashford		She is an exquisite girl...  And...since there is no male heir and...it will therefore fall upon Elizabeth and her husband to eventually inherit all of Kenwood and its lands...
oliver		 Your brother needs a wife who will bring him further land! LOTS!... if he is ever to exert more political influence than your father has. JAMES But what of her own father?
lady ashford		The Seventh Viscount Stormont is a scoundrel. Ensconced in Vienna with the girl's vicious step-mamaa and his new offspring - who I am told is to inherit EVERYTHING.
james		She has the colouring of a farmer.
lady ashford		James, we do not talk about that, any longer.
james		Is this really the very best you aspire to, Oliver? To introduce some woman of obscure birth into the family lineage? LADY ASHFORD James - you are my first boy - blessed by law to inherit your father's wealth. Be sympathetic to your brother. Like the unfortunate Miss Murray - a good family name and empty pockets will only get him so far!! OLIVER closes his eyes, privately humiliated.
lady mary		 Mabel! Freshen the flowers!
dido		 Is Mabel a slave? LADY MANSFIELD almost chokes on her porridge. LORD MANSFIELD I beg your pardon?
dido		Is-Mabel-a-slave! LORD MANSFIELD swallows hard, his jaw tightens.
lord mansfield		She is free and under our protection.
dido		 O! Like me! ELIZABETH Hardly, Dido! LORD MANSFIELD And paid a very respectable wage.
dido		The marine insurance. It is a Fraud case, is it not? LORD MANSFIELD That would depend on to whom you may speak.
dido		To cull your `cargo'? To do it solely to claim insurance because it was too diseased to achieve a good price at market? If not fraud, then what? LORD MANSFIELD Do you speak on my behalf, Dido?
lady mansfield		Oh will you please stop! She slams down her napkin. LADY MANSFIELD  This is a vulgar subject to be discussing at breakfast
lady mary		I learned yesterday that Mr Davinier is in town. DIDO stiffens. ELIZABETH stares across at her, privately. LORD MANSFIELD Makes sense. Dido is beginning to sound very much like him.  DIDO has lost her appetite. DIDO Excuse me. She gets up and is gone.
lord mansfield		Spit it out. LORD ASHFORD Her introduction to society comes at a key time in the insurance appeal. Parliament is nervous that your `family situation' will colour your judgement. LORD MANSFIELD I will neither be pressured from the inside - or the outside. LORD ASHFORD comes to a stop.
lord mansfield		How? RULES are in place to dictate how we live - were that not the case, I would not have had the mandate to give shelter to my nephew's child.
lord ashford		 I believe you. He raises an eyebrow. Then...
lord mansfield		Is that so?
lord mansfield		We are.  You once asked me, who would look after her when we are gone. Money is no substitute for a man's protection. I cannot deny her a match so suitable.
lady mary		He never married. Cousin Marjorie wrote me last year, that he had died after a long illness.
elizabeth		Oh Aunt Mary...
mabel		Pardon me. Mr Ashford is here for you, miss. DIDO and ELIZABETH look back at her, then at each other.
oliver		Hello, Miss Lindsay. DIDO Mr Oliver. OLIVER I do hope my reason for being here will bring you as much happiness as it brings me. DIDO swallows hard. In the CORRIDORS - LADIES MANSFIELD and MARY listen through a crack in the doorway.
oliver		So I feel my career is now set. All that remains... A long beat. OLIVER gathers his courage...
lady mary		I cannot see...! LADY MANSFIELD Shooosh! On the stairs, ELIZABETH slows, as she approaches.
elizabeth		What are you doing? LADY MANSFIELD Quiet, Elizabeth! In the DRAWING ROOM - DIDO is still staring at the ring.
dido		Good Lord, Mr Oliver! Your ...your wife? Mrs Ashford?!
elizabeth		Agreed? LADY MANSFIELD throws open the doors, elated.
lady mansfield		O...!
dido		 Perfect, Bette - pefect. CUT TO:
dido		Papaa.
elizabeth		Should we not wait a day or two - for Mr James? LADY MARY Elizabeth - some advice.     Wait for no man, dear!
dido		I..I am terribly light headed this morning, Mamaa. I should like to take rest if it would not displease you. LADY MANSFIELD Oh dear! Unwell? And just as we are to announce your news!
dido		Harry! Harry!
harry		Mr Davinier?
john		Harry?
john		I didn't expect...! Are you to come inside?...Are...? DIDO No...It would be dangerous. JOHN  Yes. Indeed. DIDO Oh Mr Davinier...I am so proud of you. I am so proud of what you are doing and...achieving.
john		No. We've achieved little.... She lifts his face to hers, earnestly.
dido		At least thirty per cent of insurers are with you! It is a start. It is a real start.
john		Good Lord! DIDO And they did not! They either ignored the possibilities, or they were never in need.
dido		Is it? Perhaps if you made these facts known, Mr Davinier JOHN But this places you in an impossible position with Lord Mansfield.
dido		What is the alternative? His face searches hers...
john		Walk with me, Miss Lindsay. The back of the Inn has the canals,  Nobody but blind drunks.
mabel		Yes. She is, M'lord. LORD MANSFIELD watches as she stiffly moves from the room. He goes to ask something more...then thinks better of it.
dido		Papaa would rather I see no ill, as though by ignoring it, it some how escapes me - perhaps by position but not...not by blood
john		 The fault was never with you. He stops a beat as he catches her gaze on a painted metal sign swinging from the back of an inn. It shows a gent, hat in hand, his black servant bowing behind him.
john		You were afraid.
dido		Afraid?
john		To be painted - to be painted beside Miss Murray  I feel ashamed.
dido		Do not feel ashamed.  we are but their property.
john		Whose?
dido		Gentlemen's. We women are but the property of gentlemen. That is the way it is, in law and in life, is it not? JOHN nods, uneasily.    DIDO thinks aloud.
john		I suppose you have, yes! DIDO Or have I?  It seems silly - like a free negro who begs for a master! JOHN Unless she marries her equal. Her true equal - A man who respects her.
john		Mine? DIDO  What of your mother?
dido		She is a ghost in my life - present in my reflection, in each scowl I receive, yet I know very little of her than the colour she has given me. JOHN  Then at the least, you know she was beautiful. They come to a halt. DIDO's eyes begin to sting. DIDO I had never felt it.
john		Had? They observe each other a moment. Will they kiss? Dido pulls back, nervous of the intimacy. DIDO I am to marry, shortly - Mr Ashford.
dido		He is amiable and of good family. JOHN Is it...what you want? She stops.    The question strikes her.
dido		The alternative is to replace Lady Mary in her responsibilities at Kenwood.
john		But she is a spinster.
dido		Papaa did not trust I could achieve a match that might raise my rank - or even equal it.
mabel		Lord Mansfield.  I said you were out with Lady Mansfield and Miss Murray
elizabeth		Urghhh! What if I shall never find someone so...so incomparably suitable...and wealthy?! DIDO What if he is suitable but you do not feel...`yourself' with him? ELIZABETH Oh Dido! He understood me.  And whenever...whenever... he looked at me...I somehow felt better in this world...
dido		Oh Bette, stop it! It is NOT love!! ELIZABETH Dido! You stop it, won't you? You know no more of love than I myself, do you?!  Do you Dido?
elizabeth		Then what better right do you have to name what I am feeling than me? OFF DIDO affected.
lady mansfield		How charming. Is that not charming, Elizabeth? And tell me, are you an only son?
gentleman 1		I have six brothers, madam.
lady mansfield		SIX! Goodness!...all..?
baroness vernon		 AND I see the other does not give up...so terribly endearing!
elizabeth		 Mamaa, Mr Vaughan approaches.
elizabeth		 Oh most certainly. MR VAUGHAN Miss Murray, I wonder, if you might permit me to call upon you at home, sometime?
elizabeth		Oh! She looks to her mother, stunned, his gaze follows...
mr vaughan		With her Ladyship's permission? LADY MANSFIELD I shall make arrangements. ON DIDO, as OLIVER chats to others. She moves past as...
lady ashford		A pity Lady Mansfield and I could not do business on James and Miss Murray.
lady mary		A greater pity you rejected her.
lady ashford		Let us not dwell on the unfortunate. Oliver and Miss Lindsay are a blissful match. Tell me, when exactly does she receive her inheritance? As DIDO observes her reflection in waters - easy laughter floats by - a group of gentleman josh.
dido		Oh, Mr James, your manners are as poor as your brother's finances.
james		And you are foolish enough to marry him. I on the other have no better use for your impoverished cousin!......Though she does make for rather amusing sport!
dido		It is not in my repertoire to keep company with beasts.
elizabeth		Oh!..Mr James!
dido		Is she not terribly disappointed that you will not return to Hampstead?
john		 my Aunt?
john		Were you a curious child?
dido		Completely. Elizabeth, always asked the questions for me... then took blame for the impropriety when in fact she was protecting me! Dear, dear Bette.
john		That...that is a fact. A tear spills. As JOHN'S hand come up to wipe it away...  CUT TO
dido		Then he is not a man of his word.
elizabeth		You would do that? For me?
dido		Bette, anything for you!
elizabeth		Dido...
elizabeth		Then I cannot thank you enough.
dido		Bette...?
elizabeth		I will ask Papaa to write immediately to Lady Ashford. DIDO No!
elizabeth		No? DIDO gets up too, now. DIDO James Ashford is not kind. He is not a man to give your life or dowry to. ELIZABETH Then your gift comes with conditions. DIDO No!
elizabeth		What then? DIDO I am trying...trying to make you see. He is not... appropriate!
elizabeth		Appropriate? The brother of the man you are to marry is not `appropriate' for me?
dido		He does not desire you, Bette! At least, even if he does, you would regret such a mistake.  He...he laid his hands on me, Bette - in the most un-gentlemanly fashion. ELIZABETH Why should you say such a thing?
dido		He hurt me. ELIZABETH You are a liar! DIDO Why...why would I lie to you?
elizabeth		I don't know - but do you not see? Have you never been able to see? He would never touch you...!
dido		Bette...
elizabeth		You are beneath him!
dido		I am beneath him??
elizabeth		Yes. You...you are...
dido		What! Tell me! What am I, Bette? She dares ELIZABETH to cross their line of sisterhood.
elizabeth		...You...you are.......You are illegitimate!!
lord mansfield		This man's ambitions include you. You will endure shame and risk your position for a man without name, who will sully yours and drag your reputation to the gutter! JOHN  I take great offence in your summation of my character without ever even taking a moment to know me. Where is your right? LORD MANSFIELD ...I have EVERY right...!
john		...No! That you will never have! Not until you cease from judging the entire world as those above and those below and begin to see people as PEOPLE! Human beings, who think and feel no more or less than you do!
john		No! I have an ambitious aunt in Belsize, who like you, assumes reputation and fortune are all that life depends on, and despises love as though it were the devil's own creation! LORD MANSFIELD's eyes narrow dangerously - rage explodes.
lord mansfield		Love? You claim love....??
dido		NO! STOP! Papaa, you must stop!
john		Yes...yes I love her! I love her with every breath I breathe. Silence! DIDO and LORD MANSFIELD are stunned. A painful beat.
dido		Go John.   You do not deserve this. JOHN'S breath is heavy, his heart pounding. He catches his breath, almost chokes on it as he rises, moving with uncertainty from the carriage, and is gone. DIDO stares at LORD MANSFIELD.  DIDO  Is that what you want?  No, perhaps it isn't! DIDO stands wavering - daunted.
lady mary		The niece of the Marquess of Winchester. Mr James Ashford is to marry the niece of the Marquess of Winchester. ELIZABETH looks up, bewildered.  LADY MARY  That shall render your future mother-in-law ecstatic, Dido. ELIZABETH slams her book down, gets up and storms off. DIDO thinks about it a beat, uncertain then goes after her.
dido		I won't. ELIZABETH Why! Why do they ALWAYS do that!! DIDO Who, Bette?
elizabeth		Men! They leave and never come back!
elizabeth		I saw you with him, that day.   At the pleasure garden. DIDO You said nothing.
elizabeth		I wanted you to tell me. To trust me.
dido		I should have.
elizabeth		You know, if I had your choice, I would choose...the man I loved  I simply hope he is worth it.
lady ashford		I am not in the habit of requiring explanation more than TWICE! But on this occasion, you will have to forgive me.
lord mansfield		 Lady Ashford there is little point in repetition...
lady ashford		Then let me be clear that I have understood. Your charge - your mulatto charge...
lady mansfield		 That is enough! DIDO sits staring at the floor. OLIVER cuts in, aggrieved...
oliver		 Is it not true enough, your ladyship?!!
lady ashford		...whose unfortunate circumstances of birth, we chose to forgive - has decided she no longer wishes the match with my son - a gentleman and an officer. OLIVER stares across at DIDO. He speaks quietly... OLIVER Why, Miss Lindsay?
lady ashford		...Does she still have a tongue?
dido		I have a tongue, Madam. Though yours explains well enough why I may not marry your son...beat)... You view my circumstances as unfortunate, though I cannot claim even a portion of the misfortune of those to whom I most closely resemble. ON LADY MANSFIELD stung by the thought. DIDO  My greatest misfortune would be to marry into a family who will carry me as their shame - as I have been required to carry my own mother.
dido		Why did I, slave, beyond my lot aspire.. The line repeats itself in her head.
dido		Why should it not? LORD MANSFIELD says nothing, observes her, curious. LORD MANSFIELD What are you reading?
dido		Poetry. A gentleman named Thomas Day. He speaks of a slave who agreed to marry a free woman. A voice to people...people like my mother - who do not have one.
lord mansfield		You find yourself in such writing?
lord mayor		Look at them - For and against at each other's throats! How on earth did the damn quakers find their way into here!....You are a brave man, negotiating these quarters on the eve of your judgement.
lord mansfield		You did not become Lord Mayor through being a coward. LORD MAYOR Finally you are to speak, then. If England is destroyed we shall blame you! He slaps LORD MANSFIELD's back, playfully, but is deadly serious. LORD MANSFIELD is distracted...through the bustle in the room, the SOUND of YOUNG MEN debating at a table, insurance underwriters before them.
john		And failing that does the law not have a duty? ON LORD MANSFIELD - his own group continue in conversation, but all his attention is on JOHN. JOHN  A constitution can never be finite - surely as humanity evolves so too must its laws. And frankly I really do not care if you as an individual are without character or conscience - But a land whose laws contain neither - whose laws sanction not control the barbarous among its citizens - that is a country whose hope is lost.  LORD MANSFIELD's gaze falls away, as he swallows hard.
lord mansfield		Why does it matter to you so? JOHN stares at him bewildered, at a loss for words.
john		M'lord..! It..it is a misuse of the clause. It is not for human lives. It is for goods.. Chattel...
lord mansfield		 It is for property! JOHN I HAVE SEEN YOUR NOTES!! If they wanted water they could have had it!
lord mansfield		Dido.
john		If you find for the traders, you will be formalizing in law the concept of insuring `human' cargo.
john		Then know that when you are gone, your legacy will be to have left Miss Lindsay in a world that says she may be worth more dead, than alive. LORD MANSFIELD She is not a slave. JOHN By the very grace of God!
lord mansfield		This is not about Miss Lindsay. JOHN is confused, flustered. JOHN Of course it is! It's about all of us. It's about everything... everything that is important!
harry		NO! Never again!
dido		Fine! Then step down and allow me to take the reigns.
clerk		Silence in the court! DIDO's hand slides to JOHN'S.
lord mansfield		Whether the `jettison clause' of Marine Insurance Law may be brought to bear in this appeal. This is the question. That is, first: whether the slaves were drowned as an anticipatory act. An act to avoid the disease caused by their 
lord mansfield		The ship's owners chose a tight `packing fashion' to transport the slaves...A popular fashion of transportation that is known for causing death and disease.
clerk		All rise!
lord mansfield		I am fully aware, Dido.
dido		And Mr Davinier is not a gentleman? Her voice rings out, furious. LORD MANSFIELD stops...
lord mansfield		He is...indeed...Dido.  My affections are with him, Papaa. I wish for nothing... nothing, if not to be his wife.
john		Your Lordship? LORD MANSFIELD And if you think it a good idea...I wish to facilitate your entry to the Inns of Court.
john		 That is to serve my qualification to The Bar? The question LORD MANSFIELD once put to JOHN, is now answered.
lord mansfield		Indeed......Capabilities such as yours are clearly deserving of such considerations. JOHN breathes heavily, also humbled, as his tears surface.
john		I..I think it a very good idea, sir.
dido		Of course. He sees what I see. His words were as clear as... JOHN No! That your feelings for me are so? That you would be my wife..?  I love you...for all that you are, and with all..all that I am.  He breaks down now too, wiping her tears before kissing her through his own sobs. Then tears turn to laughter.  We draw back on the couple - two fragile figures, amid the bustle of London town. ON the MANSFIELD crest as LORD MANSFIELD'S carriage moves off, a solitary figure inside, staring straight ahead. THE END FOXSEARCHLIGHT.COM/AWARDS Released by Twentieth Century Fox  2014 Twentieth Century Fox
****Dialogues from script :Beloved.txt****

howard		We gonna need food. Wait here.
howard		Come on!
denver		Where you goin?
howard		We gotta go!
howard		Bye, Denver. You take care.
denver		Bye? Bul?
denver		No..Bul...
denver		Now what you go and do that for?
baby suggs		Ya know what I'd love to see? I loved to see me some lavender. You got any lavender? Or even pink - pink'll do.
sethe		No. Sorry.
baby suggs		Ah, winter in Ohio is especially rough if you've got an appetite for color.
baby suggs		Oh, that's fine. Fine.
baby suggs		They'll be all right. I'm surprised they lasted here this long.
sethe		I don't know. Maybe we should have moved.
baby suggs		What'd be the point? Not a house in the country ain't packed to the rafters with some dead Negro's grief. We lucky our ghost is a baby. My husband spirit come back? Or yours? Don't talk to me! Ha..You lucky. You got one child left, still pullin at your skirts. Be thankful. I had eight. Eight with six fathers. Every one of them gone from me. Four taken, four chased and all, I expect, worrying somebody's house into evil. My first born - alls I can remember of her now is how she loved the burned bottom of bread. Her little hands..I wouldn't know'em if they slapped me. Can you beat that? Eight children and that's all I remember.
sethe		 You remember Halle.
baby suggs		Oh, I remember bits and pieces of all of'em I guess..Halle, of course..I had Halle a lifetime. Almost twenty years... My two girls, sold and gone before I could even a heard about it, and them without their grown up teeth yet. My third child, my son after Halle...I let that straw boss have me for four months so's I could keep that boy. Next year, he had him traded for lumber anyway and me pregnant with his child. I couldn't love that child. I wouldn't. Not any of the rest either. God take what He would....and He did...
sethe		The boys wouldn't have left if Halle were here.
baby suggs		Those boys didn't even know him. You had six whole years of marriage to my Halle Fathered every one of your children. A blessing. I learned hard that a man's just a man, but a son like that...like Halle..now that's somebody.
sethe		Just got a few more things to do, then I'll start supper.
denver		Mama?
sethe		What is it baby?
denver		You think maybe when daddy comes, he could talk to the baby ghost. Maybe make her behave and then people won't be scared of here no more.
sethe		I don't know.
denver		Why won't she ever settle?
sethe		She's mad like a baby gets mad. You forgetting how little it is. She wasn't even two years old when she died. Too little to understand.
denver		For a baby she throws a powerful spell.
sethe		No more powerful than the way I loved her.
denver		What do you pray for Mama?
sethe		Oh, I don't really pray anymore. I just talk.
denver		About what?
sethe		Oh, about time. How some things go. Pass on. Some things just stay.
denver		What things?
sethe		Like, the place I was at before here - Sweet Home. Even if that whole farm and every tree and blade of grass on it died - it'll still be there. Waiting. And if you go and stand in the place where it was, what happened there once, will happen again.
denver		If it's still there, waiting, that mean nothing ever dies?
sethe		Nothing ever does. That's why I had to get my children out. No matter what. That's why you can never go there.
denver		You never tell me all what happened. Just that they whipped you and you run off pregnant with me.
sethe		You don't need to know nothing else.
denver		 I saw a white dress kneeling next to you when you was praying.
sethe		White? Maybe it was my bedding dress. Describe it to me.
denver		Had a high neck. Whole mess of buttons coming down the back.
sethe		Buttons. Well, that's not my bedding dress. I never had a button on nothing. What else?
denver		A bunch at the back. On the sit down part.
sethe		A bustle?
denver		I don't know what it's called.
sethe		You say it was holding on to me. How?
denver		Kneeling next to you while you were praying. I mean, talking. It looked just like you.
sethe		Well, I'll be.
denver		I think it was a sign. I think maybe baby's got plans.
sethe		What plans?
denver		I don't know, but that dress holding onto you got to mean something.
sethe		Maybe. Maybe it does.
denver		She's crawling again.
sethe		Paul? Paul D.? Is that you?
paul		 How you been girl, besides barefoot?
sethe		You looking good.
paul		Devil's confusion. He lets me look good long as I feel bad.
sethe		How long has it been?
paul		'Bout eighteen years, I figure.
sethe		Eighteen years.
paul		And I swear I been walking every one of them. Mind if I join you?
sethe		You want to soak them? Let me get you some water.
paul		No, uh, uh. Can't baby feet. A whole more tramping they got to do yet.
sethe		You're not leaving right away, are you? You stay awhile.
paul		Well, long enough to see Baby Suggs, you..Where is she?
sethe		Dead.
paul		Aw no. When?
sethe		Eight years now. Almost nine.
paul		Was it hard? I hope she didn't die hard.
sethe		Soft as cream. Being alive was the hard part. Sorry you missed her though. Is that what you came by for?
paul		That's some of what I came for. The rest is you.
paul		The truth be known, I go anywhere these days. Anywhere they let me sit down.
sethe		Come on inside.
paul		Porch is fine. Cool out here. Sit with me.
paul		So Baby Suggs is gone. Somehow never thought death would find her.
sethe		It finds everyone.
paul		We managed well enough without meeting it.
sethe		I suppose.
sethe		I wouldn't have to ask about him, would I?...You'd tell me if there was anything to tell, wouldn't you?
paul		You know I would. But I don't know any more about what happened to Halle now than I did then.
paul		You must think he's still alive.
sethe		No. I think he's dead. It's just not being sure that keeps him alive.
paul		What did Baby Suggs think?
sethe		Same. Ha, listen to her, all her children dead and she felt each one go the very day and hour it happened.
paul		When she say Halle went?
paul		You had that baby, did you? Damn, never thought you'd make it. Running off pregnant.
sethe		Had to. Couldn't be no waiting.
paul		All by yourself too.
sethe		Almost. A white girl helped me.
paul		Then she helped herself, God bless her.
sethe		We got spare rooms. You could stay the night, if you had a mind to.
paul		You don't sound too steady in the offer.
sethe		Oh it's..it's truly meant. I just hope you'll pardon my house.
paul		My house. I like the sound of that.
paul		You got company?
sethe		On and off.
paul		Good God! What kind of evil you got in there?
sethe		It's not evil..It's just..just sad. Come on. Just step through.
paul		I thought you said she died soft as cream.
sethe		 Oh that's not Baby Suggs. That's my daughter. The one I sent ahead with the boys before I run off.
paul		She didn't live?
sethe		No.
paul		The boys too?
sethe		No, they alive - they run off before Baby Suggs died. The one I was carrying when I left Sweet Home is all I got left.
paul		Well, probably best..If a Negro boy got legs he ought to use them. Sit down too long, somebody figure out a way to tie them up.......  You by yourself then?
sethe		Me and Denver... my daughter.
paul		No man?  And that's all right by you?
sethe		It's all right by me...I cook at a restaurant in town. Sew a little on the sly....
sethe		You look more done in by a walk through my front hall than all those eighteen years of walking put together.
paul		Got that right.
denver		Daddy?
sethe		Baby, this here's Paul D. Garner...Paul, this is my Denver...Paul's the last of the Sweet Home men.
paul		Good morning Miss Denver. It's a pleasure.
denver		Good morning, Mr. D.
paul		Garner, baby. Paul D. Garner.
denver		Yes sir.
paul		Glad to get a look at you. Last time I saw your mama, you were pushing out the front of her dress. She's a fine looking young lady, Sethe. Fine looking. Got her daddy's sweet face.
denver		You knew my father?
paul		Knew him. Knew him well.
sethe		Of course he did. I told you, he's from Sweet Home. Paul may stay with us a while. Won't that be nice, having an old friend stay a spell?
paul		If that's all right with you, that is?
denver		We have a ghost here, you know.
paul		We met. But sad, your mama said. Not evil.
denver		No sir, not evil. But not sad either.
paul		What then?
denver		Lonely.
sethe		I don't see how it could be lonely spending every minute with us like it does.
denver		It's my sister. She was just a baby when she died in this house.
paul		Reminds me of that headless bride back behind Sweet Home. Remember that Sethe? Used to roam them woods regular.
denver		 Mama doesn't like talk about Sweet Home. Says it was never sweet and it sure wasn't home.
sethe		Girl, mind yourself!
paul		Now, now, she got it right there, Sethe.
sethe		But it's where we were. All together. It's where I met your father. And it comes back on us whether we want it to or not....
denver		Then why don't you ever tell me about it?
sethe		Denver, start up the stove. Paul must be hungry.
paul		Don't go to no trouble on my account.
sethe		Bread's no trouble. The rest I brought back from where I work. Least I can do, cooking dawn to noon, is bring dinner home. You got any objections to pike?
paul		If he don't object to me I don't object to him.
denver		Where's he going to sleep? Baby Sugg's room got no sheets or nothing.
sethe		We'll figure it out.
denver		Maybe you should stay with mama, Mr. Garner. Then you two can talk about Sweet Home all night long.
sethe		 What's the matter with you! I never knew you to behave like this!
paul		Leave her be, Sethe. I'm a stranger to her.
sethe		That's just it. She got no cause to act up with a stranger.
sethe		Baby, what is it? Did something happen?
denver		I can't no more! I can't no more!
sethe		Can't what? What can't you?
denver		I can't live here! I don't know where to go or what to do but I can't live here. Nobody speaks to us. Nobody comes by. Nobody even knows I'm alive.
paul		What she talking about 'nobody speaks to you'?
sethe		It's the house. People don't...
denver		It's not! It's not the house! It's us! It's you! SETHE Denver!
paul		Leave off, Sethe. It's hard for a young girl living in a haunted place. That can't be easy.
sethe		 It's easier than some other things. Come here, baby..
paul		I'm a grown man with nothing new left to see or do and I'm telling you it' ain't easy. Maybe you oughta move.
sethe		No!
paul		Sethe!
sethe		No. No moving. No leaving. It's all right the way it is.
paul		You going to tell me it's all right with this child half out of her mind.
sethe		 I got a tree on my back and a haunt in my house and nothing in between but the daughter I'm holding in my arms. No more running - from nothing! I will never run from another thing on this earth, you hear! I took one journey and I paid the ticket but let me tell you something, Paul D. Garner; it cost too much! Do you hear me?! It cost too much! Now sit down and eat with us or leave us be!
paul		What tree, Sethe?
sethe		Huh?
paul		What tree on your back? I don't see nothing growing on your back.
sethe		It's there all the same.
paul		Who told you that?
sethe		White girl. That's what she called it. I never seen it and never will. But she said that's what it looked like. A chokecherry tree. Leaves, branches. That was 18 years ago. Could have cherries by now for all I know...
paul		I don't follow.
sethe		I had milk, see. I was pregnant with Denver but I had milk for my baby girl that I sent ahead with the boys. I hadn't stopped nursing her when I sent her and the boys ahead of me. Anybody could smell me long before they saw me. Nothing I could do about it. All I knew is I had to get my milk to my little girl. Nobody was going to nurse her like me. Nobody was going to get it to her fast enough or take it away when she had enough..nobody knew she couldn't pass her air if you held her up on your shoulder, only if she was lying on your knee..Nobody knew that but me...
paul		We was talking about a tree, Sethe.
sethe		Schoolteacher's boys drag me into the barn and took my milk...
paul		The loft?
sethe		I told Mrs. Garner on them. She had that lump on her neck and couldn't speak but her eyes rolled out tears, I remember. Them boys found out I told on 'em and Schoolteacher made one open up my back, and when it closed it made a tree.
paul		They used cowhide on you?
sethe		And they took my milk.
paul		They beat you and you was pregnant?
sethe		And they took my milk!
paul		Aw Lord, girl.
paul		GOD DAMN IT! HUSH UP! Leave this place alone! Get the hell outta here!
paul		YOU WANT TO FIGHT, COME ON! GOD DAMN IT! SHE GOT ENOUGH WITHOUT YOU! SHE GOT ENOUGH!
sethe		Why don't you...take a rest..I'll call you when we're ready.
paul		Sure you don't want me to help clean up?
sethe		No..you'd just get in my way. Denver and me'll do it.
halle		How's this?
sethe		Here?! out in the open?!
halle		Look around - can you see anybody?
halle		Then nothing can see us neither.
halle		You are a beautiful sight.
sethe		Don't talk stupid.
halle		You're my wife now! I can talk as stupid as I like about you!  we're gonna have us a liiife..
sixo		Freedom mean something anytime it come.
neighboring farmer		You spoil these nigger boys.
garner		Maybe you got boys on your farm. My nigger's are men. Not a boy among'em. Bought 'em thataway, raised'em thataway.
neighboring farmer		Beg to differ Garner. Ain't no nigger men.
garner		Not if you scared. But if you a man yourself, you'll want your niggers to be men too.
neighboring farmer		Wouldn't have no nigger men around my wife.
garner		Neither would I..Neither would I.
sethe		I'll call you when there's something to eat.
paul		Sethe.  I was thinking of looking for work around here. What do you think?
sethe		Ain't much. River mostly. And hogs.
paul		Hogs is fine.
paul		I don't need much, Sethe. Eat, sleep, sing a little when it strikes me. I don't ask for more to..to live somewhere.
sethe		All right. It's...it's fine with me.
paul		Your girl Denver. Seems she's of a different mind.
sethe		Don't worry about her. She's a charmed child. Nothing ever touch her too bad. From the beginning. Everybody I knew dead or gone, but not her.  You got to know something, though - this here ain't no better life. It's just not that other one. What I do here - all I ever do - is keep Denver from that other..So if you stay, there's no more talk about Sweet Home or anything else. I won't let the past in my yard again. Getting me and Denver through this here life is all that matters. You understand?
paul		Dangerous to love anything that much, Sethe. Best thing is to love everything just a little bit..that way, when it breaks or runs off or gets taken, well maybe you'd have a little love left over for the next one.
sethe		Don't be asking me to choose, Paul D. There ain't no choice here.
paul		That's the whole point. I'm not asking you to choose. Just want to know if there's some space for me. Want to know if it's more than "you can stay", "it's fine"..more like, "I want you here Paul".
sethe		Maybe we should leave things the way they are.
paul		How are they?
sethe		We get along.
paul		What about inside?
sethe		I don't go inside.
paul		Sethe, if I'm here with you, with Denver, you can go anywhere you want. Jump, if you want to, 'cause I'll catch you. Go as far inside as you need - I'll hold your ankles. Make sure you get back out. I'm not saying this because I need a place to stay. I told you, I'm a walking man, but I been heading in this direction for seven years. When I got here and sat out there on the porch, waiting for you, well, I knew it wasn't the place I was heading toward. It was you. We can make a life girl. A life.
sethe		 I don't know. I don't know.
paul		Leave it to me. See how it goes. No promises, if you don't want to make any. Just see how it goes, all right?
sethe		All right. We'll see how it goes.
paul		You willing to leave it to me?
sethe		Well..some of it.
paul		 Some?...Well okay...some.
denver		What is it? What's wrong?
sethe		Nothing. Nothing's wrong. Lay back down.
denver		You think baby ghost's really gone?
sethe		Don't know.
denver		I miss her.
denver		I do. Baby Suggs told me baby ghost would never hurt me. She was my sister. When I was little, after the boys left, I used to think that she and me both were waiting for daddy to come. And once he did, she wouldn't be mad no more. 
denver		Wish he'd shut-up...He's ruined everything.
sethe		No, he hasn't. He won't.  He..he wants to takes us to the carnival next Thursday...
denver		You mean, go out where they'll be other people?
sethe		Dress up a little bit. Wear our hats. What do you think?
denver		 Maybe....
sethe		Maybe...All right...all right. 
denver		On what mama? Countin' on what?
carnival barker		All Pickaninnies free!!
paul		Two pennies and an insult well spent in my opinion to see the spectacle of whitefolks making a spectacle of themselves.
paul		Mind if I take a sip?
denver		Look. What is that?
sethe		You from around here?
paul		Those shoes look brand new.
sethe		What might your name be?
beloved		Beloved.
paul		Beloved. You use a last name, Beloved?
beloved		Last. No..just Beloved..  B..E..L..O..V..E..D...
sethe		That's a pretty name Beloved. Take off your hat and I'll make us something. We just got back from the carnival over near Cincinnati-
paul		Miss...Miss, you want to lay down?
denver		I'll take her up. She can sleep in baby Suggs room - that all right Mama?
sethe		Course.
paul		 Look at her feet? They're not walking feet. More like she rode from somewhere all the way here.
paul		Sounds like the croup.
sethe		Is she feverish, Denver?
denver		No. She's cold.
sethe		Then she is. Fever goes from hot to cold.
paul		Could have the cholera.
denver		 She's not sick!
denver		Beloved? Beloved I'm here...what is it?
beloved		Heavy..this place is heavy.
denver		Would you like to sit up?
denver		Can I get you anything? Are you hungry?
denver		..then you fold it over like this see. This here used to be where my brothers and me slept. I was always at the top.
beloved		How you get so smart?
denver		I ain't so smart.
beloved		Yes you are!
denver		Well, I used to go to Lady Jones. She'd teach us with songs how to spell and count.
beloved		You don't go no more?
denver		No I...I had to stop going.
beloved		You so smart. Tell me about your brothers.
denver		Well..they're names were Howard and..
denver		..and....and Bulgar...At night, we used to..crawl into bed together..I'd lay down on Bul's lap and Howard would tell us die- witch stories. He said they would protect us...And if I learned them, they would protect me if ever they were gone...
paul		You gonna just feed her, from now on?
sethe		Denver likes her. She's no real trouble.
paul		But don't she have a home? Some place to go?
sethe		Didn't mention one. I thought we'd wait until her breathing got better. She still sounds a little lumbar.
paul		She breathe like she can eat, she could blow this whole house down. And all those sweets.
sethe		Sometimes the body needs that sugar for strength when it's trying to recover after an illness.
paul		But that's just it. She don't seem sick. Something funny about her.
sethe		Funny? How?
paul		Acts sick, sounds sick but she don't look sick. Good skin, bright hands and strong as a bull.
sethe		She can hardly walk without holding onto something.
paul		That's what I mean. Can't walk but I passed by Baby Sugg's room this morning and saw her lifting the rocker with one hand.
sethe		You didn't?
paul		Don't tell me. Ask Denver. She was right there.
sethe		Denver. Come in here a minute.
sethe		Paul says you saw Beloved pick up the rocking chair in Baby Suggs room with one hand. That so?
denver		I didn't see no such thing.
denver		Have you seen her? I can't find her.
sethe		Who?
denver		Beloved.
sethe		She need a marker. Somethin' to tell me where she is. But I ain't got no money.
engraver		What you got then?
engraver		What you want it to say?
sethe		I was thinking what the preacher say at the funeral. Dearly Beloved.
engraver		 For ten minutes I give you one word for free.
sethe		Oh!...I didn't know you were there.
beloved		Can I help?
sethe		Help what, honey?
beloved		Where you go in the morning?
sethe		Work. I work in a restaurant.
beloved		What time you go?
sethe		Little after the sun come up. I like to make a loaf of bread before I go. How you feelin'?
sethe		You remember your mother at all?
beloved		 I remember a woman who was mine and I remember bein snatched away from her.
beloved		I'm helpin make your bread.
beloved		Where your diamonds?
sethe		Diamonds? What would I be doing with diamonds?
beloved		On your ears.
sethe		Wish I did.  Hmm..come to think of it, I had some crystal once. A present from Mrs. Garner - woman I worked for at Sweet Home.
denver		I never saw you with no earrings.
sethe		Gone. Long gone.
beloved		Tell me...Tell me about your diamonds...
denver		 Ma'am don't talk about Sweet Home.
beloved		 Tell me...Tell me about your diamonds.
sethe		Well..this lady I worked for in Kentucky gave them to me when I got married..
sethe		..What they called married back then. I remember going up to her in the kitchen to tell her. I'd help her make ink for Mr. Garner in the kitchen. I was fool enough to think I was going have some kind of ceremony...maybe even a new dress.. 
sethe		Best unbraid that hair.
denver		Tomorrow.
sethe		Today's always here. Tomorrow never.
denver		It hurts.
sethe		Comb it everyday, it won't..
beloved		Your woman never fixed up your hair?
paul		What?
sethe		My woman?..You mean my mother?
sethe		If she did I don't remember. I don't think I saw her but a few times.
beloved		Tell me 'bout her.
sethe		..I remember once, she picked me up and carried me behind the smokehouse... The only thing I do remember in fact...
sethe		...She opened up her dress and right on her rib, right here, was a circle and a cross burnt right into the skin....
paul		 Sethe.
sethe		What?
paul		Any more beans?
sethe		...anyway, she points to this mark and says to me "This is your ma'am. I am the only one whose got this mark now. The rest all dead. If something happens to me and you can't tell me by my face, you can know me by this mark"..Scared me so... I couldn't think of anything to say so I said "Yes Ma'am..but how will you know us? Mark me too. Mark the mark on me too."
denver		Did she?
sethe		No. She slapped my face. I didn't understand it then. Not until I had a mark of my own...
beloved		What happened to her?
sethe		Don't know. Everybody done?
paul		Well, as long as we're all asking questions, getting to know each other..  Why don't you tell us a little bit about yourself?
nan		That's your mama - right there.
nan		..I'm telling you, small girl Sethe...Me and your Mama was taken by the men many times..She threw them other babies away..the others from the whites, without names, she threw them away..But you she gave the name of the black man. She had her arms around him, child. The others, she did not put her arms around. Never...Never...
denver		She has us now!
paul		You been here five weeks, we still don't know nothing bout you..
sethe		Paul, Stop it. Denver bring those dishes.
paul		What was you looking for when you came here?
beloved		This place. I was looking for this place I could be in.
paul		Somebody tell you about this place?
beloved		She told me. When I was at the bridge, she told me.
sethe		Must be somebody from the old days.
paul		How'd you come? Who brought you?
beloved		I walked here. A long, long, long, long way. Nobody bring me.
paul		You had new shoes. If you walked so long why don't your shoes show it?
sethe		Paul D. stop picking on her.
paul		I want to know! Where'd you get them shoes and that dress you had on?
beloved		I take the shoes!  The shoe strings don't fit! I...
sethe		You all right?
beloved		 I want to go to sleep now.
denver		Come to my room. I can watch out for you up there.
sethe		What's the matter with you?
paul		I don't understand what the hold is. It's clear why she holds onto you, but I just can't see why you holding on to her.
sethe		What you care who's holding on to who? Feeding her is no trouble. And she's nice company for Denver.
paul		We was just starting to feel a little like a family ourselves.
sethe		Is that what's got your teeth on edge?
paul		I can't place it. It's a feeling in me.
sethe		You wanna feel somethin!? ... Feel how it is to have a bed to sleep in and somebody there not worrying you to death about what you got to do each day to deserve it. And if that don't get it, feel how it feels to be a colored woman roaming the roads with anything God made liable to jump on you. Feel that!
paul		I know every bit of that, Sethe. I wasn't born yesterday and I never mistreated a woman in my life!
sethe		Well, that makes one of you in this world.
paul		 One? Not two.
sethe		No. Not two!
paul		What Halle ever do to you? Halle stood by you. He never left you.
sethe		Ha, what'd he leave then if not me, huh?
paul		I don't know but it wasn't you. That's a fact.
sethe		Then he did worse - he left his children.
paul		You don't know that.
sethe		HE WASN'T THERE! He wasn't where he said he would be! I had to pack my babies off ahead of me, on their own, so I could stay behind to look for him...Underground agent said by Sunday we had to leave.. Sunday came and he wasn't there.
paul		He couldn't get out of the loft, I expect.
sethe		Loft? What loft?
paul		 The one over your head... The one in the barn.
sethe		He saw? He told you he saw?
paul		You told me. The day I came here. You said they stole your milk. I never knew what messed Halle up. That was it, I guess. I seen him the day after you left. Says where you been Halle? All he says to me was "the loft". I asked him what he meant not going with you but he never answers me. But I knew was something broke him. Not one of them years of Saturdays, Sundays and nighttime extra never touched him. But whatever he saw go on in the barn that day broke him like a twig.
sethe		He saw them boys do that to me and let them keep on breathing?
paul		A man ain't a Goddamn ax, Sethe. Chopping, hacking, busting every Goddamn minute of the day. Things get to him. Things he can't chop down cause they inside him. The last time I saw him, I knew he was broken for good...
sethe		What did he say?
paul		Nothing.
sethe		What did you say? Didn't you say anything to him?
paul		I couldn't.
sethe		Couldn't?! Why the hell not?!
white man		Look at Mister there...  You go tell these niggers where to go there Mister! Crow'em right outta here!
paul		I didn't mean to tell you that.
sethe		I didn't plan on hearing it.
paul		I can't take it back but I can leave it alone.
paul		Let's do that..let's leave it alone now.
sethe		 Let it alone. Just sit down and leave it be! Yeah that would be nice. Would be even nicer to lose it altogether - if I had my choice. Halle did. Other people's brains stopped, went crazy. How sweet that would have been. Me and Halle squatting by that churn, smashing cold lumpy butter in our faces, not a care in the world..
paul		Sethe, don't do this..
sethe		What a relief to just stop it all right there, huh?!! Close it shut! Squeeze that butter...But I had three children on their way to Ohio and nothing would have changed that! And you tell me he didn't leave me!!
paul		Guess she's feeling better, huh?
denver		Where'd you learn to dance?
beloved		Nowhere. Look at me do this!
beloved		Now you! Come on! Come on!
denver		Why you call yourself Beloved?
beloved		In the dark my name is Beloved.
denver		What's it like where you were before?
beloved		 Dark. I'm small in that place. I'm like this here.
denver		Were you cold?
beloved		Hot. Nothing to breathe there. No room to move.
denver		How did you get here?
beloved		I wait; then I got on the bridge. I stay there in the dark, in the daytime, in the dark in the daytime. Long time.
denver		All this time you were on the bridge?
beloved		No. After. When I got out.
denver		Why'd you come here?
beloved		To see her face.
denver		Ma'am's? Sethe's?
beloved		Yes. Sethe.
denver		You my sister, ain't you? You really are.
denver		You won't leave us, will you?
beloved		No. Never. This is where I am.
denver		I knew it. I knew. First time I saw you and you said your name. And when you touched me - real gentle. And familiar. Like I'd felt that touch before.
denver		Don't tell mama. You musn't tell her who you really are. I don't know what she'd do! Please, you hear?
beloved		Don't tell me what to do? Don't never tell me what to do!?
denver		But..but I'm on your side. I want to protect you...
beloved		 She's the one! She's the one I need! You can go but she's the one I have to have!
denver		No. Beloved please! Don't go! I didn't do nothing! We were dancing! Don't go!....
baby suggs		I'm not here to tell you all to clean up your lives and sin no more....I'm not here to tell you we're the blessed meek and are glorybound!...I'm here to tell you that the only grace we can have, is the grace we can imagine...And if you cannot see it, then you shall not have it...
sethe		Lay'em down...sword and shield.
second boy		YOU GONNA KILL HER! YOU BETTER STOP!
amy		Look there. A nigger. If that don't beat all...
amy		Man, you 'bout the scariest looking something I ever seen. What you doing back up here?
sethe		Running.
amy		Them the feet you running on? My Jesus my...
sethe		 Am I in Ohio?
amy		Ohio! Fool girl - you in Kentucky. You 'bout a thousand miles from Ohio.
sethe		 I'm still in Kentucky.
amy		You got anything on you, gal, pass for food?
sethe		No, ma'am.
amy		I like to die I'm so hungry. Thought there might be huckleberries. That's why I come up here. You having a baby?
sethe		I expect this baby ma'am is gonna die in these wild onions.
amy		Well, I got to eat something.
sethe		Where you on your way to, miss?
amy		 Boston. Get me some velvet. It's a store called Wilson. I seen pictures and they have the prettiest velvet.
sethe		Boston - is that far?
amy		Farther than Ohio.
sethe		Must be velvet closer by.
amy		Not like in Boston. Be so pretty on me. You ever touch velvet? Or even seen it?
sethe		If I did, I didn't know it. What's it like?
amy		What they call you?
sethe		 Lu.
amy		What you gonna do, just lay there and foal?
sethe		I can't get up.
amy		What?
sethe		I can't get up.
amy		There's a house back yonder. Well, not a house with people in it - more like a lean-to near the river.
sethe		How far?
amy		Make a difference, does it? You stay here, snake might get you.
sethe		Well, he may come but I can't stand up, let alone walk...and God help me, I can't crawl.
amy		Sure you can Lu..come on..
amy		Come on Lu! You got to move faster than that. You won't get to Ohio til you ninety years old, you keep moving that ways.
amy		Never know it to look at me but I used to be a good size. Nice arms, everything. That was before they put me in the root cellar...
amy		...Mama worked for these people here to pay for her passage but then she had me and died right after so I had to work for'em.. I was fishing off the Beaver once and a nigger floated right by me. I don't like drowned people, do you? Your feet remind me of him. All swole like.
amy		You all bloody back here. Gal you a mess. Undo your dress - let me see.
amy		Lord, I ain't never seen a poorer excuse for a-
amy		Jesus...It's a tree Lu..A chokecherry tree. I had me some whippings but I don't remember nothing like this. Glad I ain't you.. what God have in mind I wonder. ...You thank your Maker I come along. Spiderwebs all I can do for you. What's in here ain't enough. I'll look outside...Maybe I ought to break them blossoms open and let the pus run..  That you ain't dead yet Lu's a miracle. Make you a bet..You make it through the night, you make it all the way...
amy		It's gonna hurt now..Anything dead coming back to life hurts. Stop wiggling, girl.  Don't up and die on me in the night, you hear me Lu? I don't want to see your ugly face hankering over me. If you do die, just go on off somewhere where I can't see you, hear?
sethe		I'll do what I can, miss.
amy		Cause of me, you up and walking. See, Jesus - Lu made it through..I'm good at sick things, ain't I?
sethe		Yeah, you good...
amy		What's that all over your dress?
sethe		Milk..Got to get my milk to my baby girl.
amy		You got another baby waiting for you?
sethe		 I think this one is dead.
amy		You hungry?
sethe		I ain't nothing but in a hurry, miss. Got to meet someone...help bring me and my milk to my baby girl...
amy		You want shoes?
sethe		Say what?
amy		I figured how...
amy		Jesus looking at you, girl!
amy		What you doing that for!? Ain't you got a brain in your head? Stop that right now! I said stop it, Lu. You the dumbest thing on this here earth, LU!..LU!
amy		Oh Jesus, I'm awful sorry 'bout the braggin...I need you here now..Come on Jesus...don't be getting lost on me now.
amy		Damn daddies never around 'cept for the fun part. Biggest joke God made on woman was giving men the planters 'stead of the soil...!! PUSH!
sethe		 PULL!!
amy		My Lord...She's never gonna know who I am. You gonna tell her? Who brought her into this world. You better tell her, you hear! You say MISS AMY DENVER. Of Boston.
sethe		That's pretty. Denver. Real pretty.
stamp paid		Headin cross?
sethe		Yes sir.
stamp paid		Anybody know you coming?
sethe		Yes sir. My mother-in-law over in...
stamp paid		Take off that coat?
boy		Why?
stamp paid		You heard me?
boy		What am I gonna wear?
stamp paid		You want it back...
stamp paid		..then you go head and take it off this baby. And if you can do that, then go 'way somewhere and don't come back.
stamp paid		Wait here. Somebody be here directly. Don't move. They'll find you.
sethe		Thank you. What's your name - so I can remember you right.
stamp paid		Name's Stamp. Stamp Paid. Watch out for that baby, you hear?
ellla		Saw the sign a while ago but I couldn't get here no quicker.
sethe		What sign?
ella		Stamp always leave the old sty open when there's a crossing. Knots a white rag on the post if it's a child too.  My name's Ella..Where you headed?
sethe		My mother-in-law's. Name's Baby Suggs. She got my other three children I sent ahead.
ella		When was this one born?
sethe		Yesterday. I hope she makes it.
ella		Hard to say.  Let's try to get these on your feet.
baby suggs		Oh my Lord...My sweet Lord thank you.
baby suggs		Where's Halle?
sethe		He wasn't there.
baby suggs		Well, he be along presently, I'm sure.
sethe		Where are the children?
baby suggs		Not now. You too ugly looking to wake 'em up in the night. First we get you well..
baby suggs		You feel this?
sethe		Feel what?
baby suggs		Nothing..
baby suggs		Girl...
baby suggs		Already crawling - ain't that somethin? ..Come on, baby girl..right this way..Mama's waiting..
howard		Pappie come?
sethe		Soon.
baby suggs		All right boys - mama's home now, you be seeing her all the time..Go downstairs and get your supper...Go on...
baby suggs		Nothing worth saving here.
sethe		Oh wait..Look and see if there's something knotted up in the petticoat. Wedding present. From Mrs. Garner.
baby suggs		Be nice if there was a groom to go with it. What do you think happened to him?
sethe		I don't know. He wasn't where he said to meet him at. I had to get out. I had to. He'll make it. if I made it, Halle sure can.
baby suggs		 Well put these on - maybe they'll light his way.
baby suggs		Whatever happens now...God lead you home. So now lay'em down Sethe...Sword and shield..Don't study war no more. Lay all that mess down. Sword and shield...
sethe		Paul? Paul, you home?...
paul		Where else would I be on a Sunday off?
paul		Why don't you come on in here?
sethe		Paul D. What if the girls came in?
paul		I don't hear nobody.
sethe		I have to cook.
paul		What you gonna cook?
sethe		 I thought I'd make some snap beans.
paul		Oh yeah.
sethe		Fry up a little corn?
paul		Yeah.
sethe		Oh Paul...
paul		I'm right here baby.
sethe		Thank you Lord.
beloved		You have brothers or sisters?
paul		We don't talk about that.
beloved		Sethe told us you been walking for eighteen years. Where you been all that time?
paul		Lots of places. I don't remember them all. Don't remember much about anything.
beloved		You be surprised what you start remembering once you start talking.
paul		Well not me. What's gone is gone. No good come from bringing it back.
sethe		Paul?..Paul?
paul		 Mmmm. What?...
sethe		I called you two or three times but I gave up round midnight. I thought maybe you went out somewhere.
paul		Damn. I'm sorry honey...
sethe		I'll make some breakfast - you get yourself washed up.
white guard		Hiiiiiii!
white guard		Breakfast? Want some breakfast nigger?
white guard		Hungry nigger?
white guard		Here you go.
paul		What do you want in here?
beloved		I want you to touch me on the inside part and call me my name.
paul		When good people take you in and treat you good, you ought to try to be good back. You don't....Sethe loves you. Much as her own daughter. You know that.
beloved		 She don't love me like I love her. I don't love nobody but her.
paul		Then what you come in here for?
beloved		I want you to touch me on the inside part.
paul		Ever since you come here - feel like I got a new devil to face.
beloved		You have to touch me. On the inside part. And you have to call me my name.
paul		Ain't no chains on me no more. I don't have to do nothing...Now, go back in that house and go to bed.
beloved		Call me my name.
paul		No. Ain't no chains on me...
beloved		Call me.
paul		...Ain't no chains on me...
beloved		I'll go if you say it.
paul		Beloved.
paul		Look here Sethe..You ain't gonna like what I got to say but I got to say it...See, it's not the..a man can't...what I mean is, it ain't really me..see, it ain't weakness, the kind of weakness I can fight, that girl is doing it. I know you think I never liked her nohow, still don't, but she is doing it to me anyway. Fixing me, Sethe, she's fixed me and I can't break it...
sethe		Man, you make me feel like a young girl, you coming by to pick me up after work. Nobody ever did that before. Better watch out, I might start looking forward to it.
sethe		Got to rinse this out.
sethe		You get off early or what?
paul		I took off early.
sethe		Anything the matter?
paul		In a way of speaking.
sethe		Not cut back?
paul		No, no. They got plenty of work with them pigs..More they can handle. I just..  You ain't gonna like what I'm about to say, Sethe.
sethe		Well say it, Paul D...whether I like it or not.
paul		I want you pregnant, Sethe. Would you do that for me?
sethe		You came by here to ask me that!? You are one crazy-headed man. You right; I don't like it!...Don't you think I'm a little too old to start that all over again?
paul		Think about it.
sethe		Mercy.
sethe		I been on my feet all day, Paul D.
paul		Where I been? Sitting down!?
sethe		Stop! I don't have the legs for this!
paul		Then give'em to me.
sethe		You need some babies..somebody to play with in the snow.
paul		I sure would like to give it a try. Need a willing partner though.
sethe		I'll say..Very, very willing.
sethe		Crazy girl. You out here with nothing on.
sethe		You got to learn more sense than that.
sethe		Evening, girl.
sethe		Now I know you not sleeping out there tonight, are you Paul D.?  You come upstairs tonight. Where you belong...and stay there.
beloved		She likes him here...  Make him go away.
denver		She'd be mad if he leaves.
denver		OOoo..didn't that hurt you?
beloved		It's like my dreams...I get two dreams, see..One, I exploding...BUUOOGGG...The other I being swallowed. Sometimes it's hard to keep my head on my neck, or these legs connected to my hips...One day I think I might wake up and I'll be in pieces..  Maybe it's starting.
denver		 Oh stop. It's just a tooth. Probably wisdom. Does it hurt?
beloved		Yes.
denver		Then why don't you cry?
beloved		What?
denver		If it hurts, why don't you cry?
sethe		What you think about Schoolteacher?
halle		He white, ain't he?
sethe		I mean, is he different like Mr. Garner was?
halle		How was he different?
sethe		Well, he and Mrs. Garner - they ain't like other whites I seen before. Mr. Garner always spoke soft, for one. Mrs. Garner too.
halle		Don't matter. Loud or soft, what they say is the same.
sethe		Mr. Garner let you buy out your mother. Found that house for her to live in from those friends of his in Ohio...
halle		Yep. He did.
sethe		Well?
halle		If he hadn't, she would have dropped in his cooking stove.
sethe		Still, he did it. Let you work off her fee, lending yourself out on Sundays. He could of said no. He didn't tell you no.
halle		No, he didn't tell me no. She worked here ten years. If she worked another ten, ya think she would have made it? I pay him for her last years and in return he got you, me and three more coming..
sethe		He always treated you fair. Called you all men - said he never wanted niggers on his farm.
halle		That's just it. We was men because he said so. We was men because we was on his land. You think he be calling us men if we ever walked off his land?
sethe		When we walk, don't matter what they call you. You'll be free.
halle		Sethe..baby girl, that ain't gonna happen. Not by walking, anyway.
sethe		What you mean?
halle		Schoolteacher in there told me to quit lending myself out.
sethe		But..then..how you gonna buy yourself out? Or them?  Or me?
halle		Ain't gonna be no buying us out, like I did with mama. Or them. As far as Schoolteacher concerned, ain't no other life ahead for any of us but this one.
sethe		Halle....what we going to do?
halle		 Sixo, ya know he creeps out at night..he says the way they took my ma'am..he says freedom is that way. He and Paul A. got a plan.  They heard of this man, what they call an underground agent...if we do what he says, don't need no buy out.
sethe		You mean...? But what if we caught? What'd they do to us? To the children?
halle		Same thing they're doing now, honey - only quicker.
schoolteacher		 Which one are you doing?
schoolteacher		No, no. That's not the way. I told you to put her human characteristics on the left; her animal ones on the right. And don't forget to line them up.
sethe		Want me to loosen it up with a little water?
sethe		Yes ma'am...
sethe		Yes Ma'am. Look like it.
sethe		They don't need telling.
sethe		Yes ma'am.
woman		Hurry up. You're late.
sethe		 Here!
howard		But ma'am...
sethe		Just go with her! Do what I tell ya!
sethe		Put sugar water on that cloth for her to suck so she won't forget me til I come.
woman		Where you going?
sethe		Halle wasn't there. I gotta go back.
woman		You crazy..
sethe		Take em out. Now! I'll get there myself. I got her milk...I'll get there...Don't worry.
sethe		Go..Go! Now!
bulgar		Mama?
paul		Ain't just a job reason to sing. Other things a man's got to look forward to that a job just a way to spend your day til the good times arrive.
stamp paid		Now, now...it's all a state a mind, right Paul D. If you can think it, it can happen.
paul		More than that. When a man can make plans then a man can make good times happen.
paul		Better then gold, my friend. Me and my woman's planning on starting a family.
paul		New life. Born free, hear! Now if that don't define a good tine, I don't know what does.
paul		What you talkin? Nobody owns us no more. Nobody gonna own my children neither.
stamp paid		May I?
paul		Free country. No matter what anybody says.
stamp paid		I like the way you think, boy. Good. Good to think that way. Friend of mine, Baby Suggs was her name...sort of became a preacher in these parts..that was her way of thinking too. When she was at her best, that is.
paul		You knew Baby Suggs?
stamp paid		Oh yes...You're not one of her Sweet Home men, now are you?
paul		Yes sir...Me and my brothers and her son.
stamp paid		Oh, I see now.
paul		Sethe told me she died soft as cream.
stamp paid		Well...maybe on the outside.
paul		Why is that?
stamp paid		You don't know, son, do you? See I had to figure that out first.
paul		Know what?
paul		Who is it?
stamp paid		That there's a picture of Sethe.
paul		Sethe?  Nah, that ain't her mouth. I can see where you might think it around the eyes but that there ain't her mouth. Besides, why would some black woman's picture be in the paper?
stamp paid		You don't read son, do you?  You want me to read to you?
sethe		Already fed the girls. You eat?  Want something?
sethe		Best you come inside.
sethe		I don't have to tell you about Sweet Home. What it was. But maybe you don't know what it was like for me to get away from there.
sethe		I did it. I got us all out. Without Halle too. Up til then it was the only thing I ever did on my own. Decided. And it came off right like it was supposed to..
sethe		We was here. Each and every one of my babies and me too. I birthed them and I got 'em out and it wasn't no accident. I did that! I had help, of course, lots of that, but still it was me doing it; me saying, "Go on" and "Now!". Me having to look out. Me using my own head. But it was more than that. It was a kind of ...'thinking-about-myself' I never knew nothing about before. It felt good. Good and right. I was big, Paul, and deep and wide and when I stretched out my arms all my children could get in between. I was that wide. Look like I loved them more after I got them here. Or maybe I couldn't love'em proper in Sweet Home 'cause they wasn't mine to love. But when I got here, when I jumped off that wagon - there wasn't nobody in the world I couldn't love if I wanted to....
baby suggs		Let the children come!
baby suggs		 Let your mother's hear you laugh!!
baby suggs		Let the grown men come!!
baby suggs		LET YOUR WIVES AND YOUR CHILDREN SEE YOU DANCE!
baby suggs		Now...you women...I want you to cry. For the living. For the dead....Just cry.
sethe		....Something in me knew Halle was never gonna knock on our door. He was never gonna see what I saw that day. I saw what men look like...and I saw mothers, for the first time.
baby suggs		 What a sight you are, Stamp.
stamp paid		Worth it though. Just one bite of these berries and you feel down right anointed.
sethe		She's too little for that, Stamp. Her bowels be soup.
baby suggs		It'll sickify her stomach..Now go wash up round back...crazy fool..
sethe		It was real nice of him.
baby suggs		He's a good one, no doubt of that. I can get three, maybe four pies out of this. Seems a shame just for us though. I'm gonna invite Ella and John over...
sethe		How 'bout if I make a couple of chickens to back it up?
sethe		Howard!...Bulgar!
sethe		The shed!...Get in the shed!...Run!
nephew		What she go and do that for?...What she go and do that for?
sheriff		You all better go on.  Nothing here to claim, I guess. Look like your business is over. Mine's started.
sheriff		I'll have to take you in. No trouble now. You've done enough to last you....
sheriff		You come quiet, here, and I won't have to tie you up.
stamp paid		Sethe. You take my arm and gimme yours.
sheriff		I'm going out here and send for a wagon.
baby suggs		I beg you pardon..I beg your pardon..
baby suggs		Excuse me..but the child needs nursin..needs the mother's milk..
sheriff		Then she's best come too.
baby suggs		One at a time!...And you gotta clean yourself up!
white boy		Mama says Wednesday. She says you got to have them fixed by Wednesday.
white boy		You hear, Baby? She says Wednesday.
baby suggs		 I beg your pardon..Lord, I beg your pardon..I sure do....
paul		Your love is too thick, Sethe.
sethe		Love is or it isn't. Thin love ain't love at all...I did stop him. I took and put my babies where they'd be safe...
paul		Didn't work though, did it?
sethe		It worked.
paul		How? Your boys gone, you don't know where. One girl dead, the other can't go farther than the yard. How did it work?
sethe		They ain't at Sweet Home! Schoolteacher ain't got'em!
paul		Maybe there's worse.
sethe		It ain't my job to know what's worse. It's my job to know what is and keep them away from what I know is terrible. I did that.
paul		What you did was wrong, Sethe.
sethe		I should have gone back there? Taken my babies back there?
paul		There could have been a way. Some other way.
sethe		What way?
paul		You got two feet, Sethe. Not four!
paul		You can set aside supper for me... Might be late getting back...
sethe		After all I told you, Paul D. and after telling me how many feet I have, you think saying goodbye is gonna break me into pieces?
sethe		You're a sweet man.
sethe		So long, Paul D.
beloved		What do these do?
sethe		My Lord...where'd you dig up those?
denver		There for skating on the ice. We have another pair and half of another, I think.
beloved		Can we try them?
sethe		Go ice skating? Ha...  Why not?
denver		You sure mama?
sethe		Strikes me that after your man leaves, it might just be the wrong time to be scrubbing floors... might just be the perfect time to go ice skating.
sethe		Go get the shawls..and find me an old shoe for that half a pair...
denver		Come on, ma'am...try!
sethe		I made that song up. I made it up and sang it to my children...
sethe		...Nobody knows that song but me and my children.
beloved		I know it.
sethe		Back stiff?
denver		OOh, yeah...Don't know if it's the floor or the skating.
sethe		Could be that fall you took.
denver		That was fun.
denver		Should I wake her?
sethe		No, let her rest.
denver		She likes to see you off in the morning.
sethe		I'll make sure she does. But first I'm going  make up a nice, big breakfast against that cold outside.
denver		Won't you be late for work?
sethe		Don't matter. First time I'll be late in nine years. No great trouble..Whatever goes on out there goes on with or without me showing up on time... don't matter...  The world is in this room, baby. This is all there is and all there needs to be.
stamp paid		You missed the Clearing meeting three Saturdays running.
stamp paid		Folks came.
baby suggs		Folks come. Folks go.
stamp paid		Here, let me carry that.
baby suggs		I got a delivery around here. Name of Tucker.
stamp paid		 Yonder. Twin chestnuts in the yard.
stamp paid		Well?
baby suggs		Well what?
stamp paid		This Saturday - you coming to Call or what?
baby suggs		If I call them, and they come what on earth am I going to say to them.
stamp paid		Say the Word!
stamp paid		The Word. What you was put here to speak.
baby suggs		That's the last thing they took from me.
stamp paid		But you got to do it. You got to. Can't nobody Call like you. You have to be there.
baby suggs		What I have to do is get in my bed and lay down. I want to fix on something harmless in this world.
stamp paid		What world are you talking about? Ain't nothing harmless down here.
baby suggs		Blue. That doesn't hurt nobody. Yellow neither.
stamp paid		You getting into bed to think about yellow?
baby suggs		I likes yellow.
stamp paid		Then what? When you get through with blue and yellow, then what?
baby suggs		Can't say. It's something can't be planned.
stamp paid		You blaming God. That what you're doing?
baby suggs		No, Stamp. I ain't.
stamp paid		You saying whitefolks won. That what you saying?
baby suggs		Those white things have taken all I had or dreamed. I'm saying ain't no bad luck in this world 'cept for white folks..They just don't know when to stop.
stamp paid		You saying nothing counts?
baby suggs		I'm saying they came into my yard.
stamp paid		You saying God give up? Nothing left for us but pour out our own blood?
baby suggs		I'm saying they came into my yard.
stamp paid		You punishing Him, ain't you?
baby suggs		Not like He punished me.
stamp paid		You can't do that, Baby. It ain't right.
baby suggs		Was a time I knew what was.
stamp paid		You still know.
baby suggs		What I know is what I see: a nigger woman hauling shoes.
stamp paid		Aw, Baby.
stamp paid		We have to be steady. "These things too will pass". What you looking for? A miracle?
baby suggs		No. I'm looking for what I was put here to look for: the back door.
sawyer		What the hell you thinking, girl? Strolling in here this late?
sethe		Don't talk to me, Mr. Sawyer. Don't say nothing to me this morning.
sawyer		What? What? You talking back to me?
sethe		I'm telling you don't say nothing to me.
sawyer		You better get them pies made!
sawyer		Not too sweet! You make it too sweet they don't eat it.
sethe		Make it the way I always do.
sawyer		Yeah. Too sweet. 
ella		Where you been keeping yourself? I told John must be cold if Stamp stay inside.
stamp paid		Oh I been out.
ella		Out where?
stamp paid		Was over to Baby Suggs.
ella		What you want there? Somebody invite you in?
stamp paid		That's Baby's kin. I don't need no invite to look after her people.
stamp paid		Somebody new there. A woman. Thought you might know who she is.
ella		Ain't no new Negroes in this town I don't know about. What she look like? You sure that wasn't Denver?
stamp paid		I know Denver.
ella		You sure?
stamp paid		I know what I see.
stamp paid		True.
ella		Better ask Paul D.
stamp paid		Can't locate him.
ella		He's sleeping in the church.
stamp paid		The church!
ella		Yeah. Asked Rev. Pike if he could stay in the cellar.
stamp paid		It's cold as charity in there! What he do that for? Any number'll take him in.
ella		Can't nobody read minds long distance. All he have to do is ask somebody.
stamp paid		Why? Why he have to ask? Can't nobody offer? What's going on? Since when a black man come to town have to sleep in the cellar like a dog?!
ella		Unrile yourself, Stamp. It's only a few days he been there.
stamp paid		NO! Shouldn't be no days! You know all about it and don't give him a hand? That don't sound like you, Ella. Me and you been pulling colored folk out the water more'n twenty years! Now you tell me you can't offer a man a bed?! A working man who can pay his own way?
ella		He ask, I give him anything.
stamp paid		Why's that necessary all of a sudden?
ella		I don't know him that well.
stamp paid		You know he's colored? What else there to know?
ella		Stamp, don't tear me up this morning! I don't feel like it.
stamp paid		It's her, ain't it?
ella		Her who?
stamp paid		Sethe. He took up with her and stayed in there and you don't want nothing to-
ella		Hold on! Don't jump if you can't see bottom!
stamp paid		Girl, give it up! We been friends too long to act like this.
ella		Well, who can tell what went on in there? I never even knew who Sethe was or none of her people.
stamp paid		You know she married Baby Suggs' boy.
ella		I ain't sure I know that. Baby never laid eyes on her till she showed up here. And how'd she make it and her husband didn't? And where is he? And how she have that baby in the woods by herself? Said a whitewoman help her. Shoot. You believe that? Well, I know what kind of white that was.
stamp paid		Aw, no, Ella.
ella		Anything white floating around in the woods - if it don't got a shotgun, it's something the Lord tells me I don't want no part of.
stamp paid		You was friends.
ella		Till she showed herself.
stamp paid		Ella.
ella		I ain't got no friends take a handsaw to their own children.
stamp paid		What's any of that got to do with Paul D.?
ella		What run him off? Tell me that!
stamp paid		I run him off.
ella		 You?
stamp paid		I told him...Showed him the newspaper. About Sethe. Read it to him. He left that very day.
ella		You didn't tell me that. I thought he already knew.
stamp paid		He didn't know nothing. And nobody. Except her, from when they was at that place Baby Suggs was at.
ella		He knew Baby Suggs?
stamp paid		Sure he knew her. Her boy Halle, too.
ella		And he left when he found out what Sethe did?  What you say casts a different light on it, I guess...I thought-
ella		But you didn't come here talking 'bout Paul. You came asking about a new girl.
stamp paid		That's so.
ella		Well, Paul D. must know who she is. Or what she is.
stamp paid		You mind loaded with spirits. Everywhere you look you see one.
ella		You know as well as I do, Stamp, that people who die bad don't stay in the ground.
stamp paid		Howdy.
paul		You got any more newspaper in that pocket for me, just a waste of time. Ain't interested.
stamp paid		This is hard for me. But I got to do it. Two things I got to say to you. I'm a take the easy one first.
stamp paid		I come looking for you to ask your pardon. Apologize.
paul		For what?
stamp paid		You pick any house, any house where colored live. Pick any one and you welcome to stay there. I'm apologizing 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. But you welcome anywhere you want to be. My house. John and Ella. Miss Lady Jones..anybody. You choose. You ain't got to sleep in no cellar and I apologize for each and every night.
paul		Well I...I did get offered one place but I just wanted to be off by myself a spell.
stamp paid		Oh yeah. Oh that's load off. I thought everybody gone crazy.
paul		Just me.
stamp paid		You planning to do anything about it?
paul		Oh yeah. I got big plans.
white man		Hey!!
stamp paid		 Yes sir.
white man		I'm looking for a gal name of Judy. Works over by the slaughterhouse. Said she lived on Plank Road.
stamp paid		Plank Road. Yes sir. That's up a ways. Mile, maybe.
white man		You don't know her? Judy? Works in the slaughterhouse.
stamp paid		No sir, I don't, but I know Plank Road. 'Bout a mile up thataway.
white man		Look here..There's a cross up there, so I guess this here's a church or used to be. Seems to me like you ought to show it some respect, you follow me?
stamp paid		Yes sir..You right about that. That's just what I come over to talk to him about. Just that..
paul		You remember your price, Stamp?
stamp paid		Never found out.
paul		I did. Down to the cent.$900. Always wondered though what Mrs. Garner got for my brother Paul F. Must of been more than nine hundred dollars cause she use that money for Sweet Home for almost two years. But then they hung my other brother Paul A. up on a tree so I guess he wasn't worth the same..I wonder what was Baby Suggs worth? And Halle? I wasn't surprised when I found out they tracked down Sethe all the way to Cincinatti. Her price must have been higher than all of us - her being property that reproduced itself without cost. A breeder.
stamp paid		No use thinking these things now.
paul		Oh but we got to. How we gonna know our price in the future? How are children's children's children gonna know what they cost? Who's gonna tell them? What are they gonna pay for us, if we free?
stamp paid		Children ain't gonna need to know that kind of thing.
paul		They'll know. They'll know as soon as they born. Cause it's inside us,Stamp. It'll be inside them. We'll pass it down. Schoolteacher didn't just change the outside, he changed the mind..and the blood..and what it carries...and what it's worth..
stamp paid		I don't believe that. I won't.
paul		There was a rooster named Mister down at Sweet Home. Last time I saw Halle, with that butter all over his face and me with an iron bit in my mouth, I saw Mister - sitting on a tub. He loved that tub. Like king on a throne. He was a hateful thing. Bloody and evil..But he was better than me.  Mister was allowed to be and stay what he was. Even if you cooked him you'd be cooking a rooster named Mister. But wasn't no way I'd ever be Paul D. again..Schoolteacher changed me. Was never no beating under Mr. Garner. Schoolteacher changed that. Why wouldn't a man run from that? Why wouldn't a man not work, kill, starve, pull out his own heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling that? And it strikes me, it's got to be cause we were something else. And that something was less than a chicken sitting in the sun on a tub.
stamp paid		I said I had two things to say to you. I only told you one. I have to tell you the other.
paul		I don't want to know.
stamp paid		I was there Paul D...There in the yard. When she did it.
paul		What yard? When who-
paul		Jesus.
stamp paid		It ain't what you think.
paul		You don't know what I think.
stamp paid		She ain't crazy. She love those children. She was trying to outhurt the hurter's all.
paul		Leave off..
stamp paid		She was only-
paul		Stamp, leave off I said! I knew her when she was a girl. She scares me and I knew her when she was a girl...
stamp paid		You ain't scared of Sethe. I don't believe you.
paul		She scares me. I scare me. And that girl in her house scares me.
stamp paid		Who is she? Where she come from?
paul		Don't know. Just shot up one day from a stump.
stamp paid		She what run you off? Not what I told you 'bout Sethe?
paul		Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this one thing. How much is a nigger supposed to take?
stamp paid		All he can. All he can.
paul		Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?
denver		You shouldn't be in here?
beloved		What do you know about it? I sleep where I want.
denver		You best leave that quilt alone. That was grandma's quilt.
beloved		Breakfast ready? I'm hungry!
sethe		Morning.
denver		Morning, ma'am.
sethe		You hungry?
denver		No, ma'am.
denver		I'll finish those. Why don't you sit down?
beloved		You don't sit with me!!
sethe		Baby, don't be like that.
beloved		You don't sit with me!! I don't sit with people who leave me!
sethe		Don't talk like that. Your mama loves you.
beloved		I had another dream last night.  The dead man laying on top of me and I had nothing to eat. And the ghosts without skin stuck their fingers in me and said Beloved in the dark and bitch in the light..
sethe		Don't say those things. You forget about those dreams..
beloved		You gave me the bad dreams. You left me behind...
sethe		Mama told you - I'd give up my own life, every minute, every hour of it to take back one of your tears baby...My children my best thing. You my best thing!
beloved		You're weren't nice to me..you didn't smile at me..
sethe		That's not true. I told you, I had to get you out, make you safe...so's you and me could be together on the other side, forever..
denver		Ma'am...
beloved		LIAR!
denver		MAMA!
sethe		Hold back Denver - I'm fine..You..you go on upstairs. I'll do the cleaning up.
denver		But mama..
sethe		Go upstairs I said!!
baby suggs		You mean I never told you about your daddy? About the Bodwins who let me rent this here house while I do my shoe repairing? About your mother's feet, not to mention her back? I never told you all that?
baby suggs		Is that why you can't walk down the steps and out yonder by yourself?
baby suggs		Why you never go back to Lady Jone's and learn your letters? You liked going there I remember. Seeing the other children. Then all a sudden, you stop.
denver		There was a boy there...said mama was a jailbird...said he could prove it..
baby suggs		My Jesus my...What people won't say. Why didn't you come and ask me?  Come here, child..
baby suggs		You got to go sometime. You got to go out there by yourself sometime.
denver		But you said...you said out there, there ain't no...what was that word?..no..de- fense. No de-fense.
baby suggs		There ain't.
denver		Then what do I do?
baby suggs		Know it, and go on out the yard. Go on.
denver		Mama?
beloved		I look just like her.
denver		Mama let me help you.
sethe		NO!...She wanted me to do it.
lady jones		Why Denver..Look at you.
lady jones		It's been so long. It's so nice of you to come see me. What brings you?
lady jones		Well, never mind - nobody needs a reason to visit. Let me make us some tea. Come on.
lady jones		How's your family, honey?
denver		I want to work, Miss Lady.
lady jones		Work? Start learnin your letters again?
denver		No. I mean work work.
lady jones		Well, what can you do?
denver		I can't do anything but I would learn it for you if you have a little extra.
lady jones		Extra?
denver		Food. My mama, she doesn't feel well. I couldn't stay away from her too long, cause of her condition but I could do chores in the mornings.
lady jones		Oh baby...I don't know anyone could pay anybody anything for work they did themselves...But if you all need to eat until your mother's well, all you have to do is say so...We have a church committee invented so nobody had to go hungry.
denver		No..No that won't do...
sethe		BABY!
denver		Thank you.
grace		No, darling. That's not my bowl. Mine's got a blue ring around it..Would you like to come in a spell?
sethe		Nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's going be doing that..nobody going be writing my daughter's characteristics on the animal side..no sir..I don't care..ain't laying that down..no sir. I refuse..that's right..that's right...
denver		Mama...Mama she's asleep. Why don't you eat something.
sethe		She likes this dress...
denver		But you'll hurt your eyes doin it there. Come sit at the table.
denver		Please mama, eat something...
janey		Yes?
denver		May I come in?
janey		What you want?
denver		I want to see Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin.
janey		Miss Bodwin. They brother and sister, darlin.
denver		Oh.
janey		What you want'em for?
denver		I'm looking for work. I was thinking they might know of some.
janey		 You Baby Sugg's kin, ain't you?
denver		Yes ma'am.
janey		I heard your mother took sick, that so?
denver		Yes ma'am..
janey		Well, come on in. You letting in flies.
janey		You know what? I've been here since I was fourteen and I remember like yesterday when Baby Suggs, holy, came here and sat right where you are. Whiteman name of Garner brought her. He and Mr. Bodwin were good friends. That's how she got that house you all live in. Other things too.
denver		Yes ma'am.
janey		I never went to those woodland services but she was always nice to me. Always. Never be another like her.
denver		I miss her.
janey		Bet you do. Everybody miss her. That was a good woman...Well, I don't know whether the Bodwins think it or not but they sure could use some extra help.
denver		 Ya think?
janey		They getting older now and I can't take care of 'em like I used to. More and more they keep asking me to sleep over night. Now, I don't want to quit these people but they can't have all my days and nights too. I got my own family needs me. It'll take some convincing but maybe you could come after supper - take care of your mama during the day, then earn a little something at night, how's that?
denver		Fine. But what would I do at night?
janey		Be here. In case.
denver		In case of what?
janey		In case the house burn down or bad weather slops the roads so bad I can't get here on time or late guests needed cleaning up after. Anything.  Don't ask me what whitefolks need at night.
denver		They good whitefolks?
janey		Oh yeah. They good. Can't say they ain't good. I wouldn't trade them for another pair, tell you that. But you come back in a few days - give me a chance to lead'em to it. All right?
janey		What is it, child? What's the trouble with Sethe?
grace		But is it really the daughter, Janey? The killed one?
janey		That what she say.
ella		It's sitting there. Sleeps, eats and raises hell. Whipping Sethe every day.
grace		I'll be. A baby?
janey		No. Grown now. The age it would have been had it lived.
grace		In the flesh. And whipping her.
ella		Nobody got that coming.
ella		No, and the children can't just up and kill the mama. What's fair ain't necessarily right...  Now you all know how I felt about the whole thing. I know the rage Sethe felt in that shed that day.  We all do. But what I could not understand, and still don't, was her reaction to it. Prideful. Too damn complicated for a black woman in her position before God. But whatever she done, I don't like the idea of past errors taking possession of the present. I don't cotton to sin moving in on a house, unleashed and sassy. Every day life takes enough, takes all a woman has. "Sufficient unto the day is evil thereof" and nobody needs more. Nobody needs a grown up evil sitting at a table with a grudge. As long as that ghost showed itself from a ghostly place, I respected it. But once it take on flesh and come into this world, well, the shoe's on the other foot now. I don't mind a little communication between worlds. But this here's an invasion.
grace		Should we pray?
ella		Uh-huh. First. Then we got to get down to business.
denver		Mama?....Mama I'm going out..  Mama, I got a job. Working over at the Bodwins at night. Mr. Bodwin coming over now to pick me up on his way back from town. I'll be staying there nights and coming back here for the daytime. We'll have some money, mama..Mama?
denver		I'm going help you, mama. Don't you give up yet.
sethe		No...No, he's not coming into my yard. He not taking my best thing...No..
sethe		No...no...no..
denver		Mama?
sethe		No...NO..NO..NOOOOOOOOOOOO!
denver		MAMA...NOOOOOOO!
denver		Good morning, Paul D.
paul		Well, is it now? How you getting along?
denver		Don't pay to complain.
paul		You on your way home?
denver		No. Got me an afternoon job at the shirt factory. Figure between that and my night work at the Bodwins I might be able to put something away for me and mama.
paul		They treating you right over at the Bodwins?
denver		More than all right. Miss Bodwin, she teach me stuff..Book stuff. She says I might go to Oberlin. She's experimenting on me.
paul		Your mother all right?
denver		No. Not a bit all right. Hasn't gotten out of bed since that day.
paul		You think I should stop by? Think she'd welcome it?
denver		I don't know. I think I've lost my mother, Paul D.
paul		That girl...You know, Beloved...
denver		Yes?
paul		She gone like they say?
denver		Haven't seen her since that day. Ella thinks she might be waiting in the woods for another chance but..I don't think so. Mama thinks she's gone for good. Says she can feel it.
paul		You think she sure 'nough your sister?
denver		At times. At other times I think she was...more. But who would know that better than you. I mean, you sure 'nough you her.
paul		Well, if you want my opinion...
denver		I don't. I have my own.
paul		You grown.
denver		Yes sir
paul		Well, good luck with the job.
denver		Thank you.
denver		And Paul D...you don't have to stay 'way, but be careful how you talk to my mama, hear?
paul		I will.
young man		Hey, Miss Denver..Wait up!
paul		Sethe?
sethe		 Paul D.
paul		Aw, Sethe.
sethe		You shaved.
paul		Yeah. Look bad?
sethe		No, You looking good.
paul		Devil's confusion. What's this I hear about you not getting out of bed?  I saw Denver. She tell you?
sethe		She comes in the daytime.  She still with me, my Denver.
paul		 You got to get up from here, girl.
sethe		I'm tired, Paul. So tired. I have to rest a while.
paul		 Don't you die on me!! This is Baby Suggs quilt. Is that what you planning!?
sethe		Oh, I don't have no plans. No plans at all.
paul		Look - Denver be here in the day. I be here in the night. I'm a take care of you, you hear? Starting now.
paul		What, baby?
sethe		 She left me. She's gone again.
paul		Aw, girl. Don't cry...Me and you, we got more yesterday than anybody. We need some kind of tomorrow...
sethe		She was my best thing.
paul		You your best thing, Sethe. You are.
sethe		Me?...Me?
baby suggs		..The only grace we can have, is the grace we can imagine. If you cannot see it, you will not have it...Here, in this place, we are flesh. Flesh that weeps, laughs, dances on bare feet in the grass. Love it. Love it hard. Yonder they do not love your flesh. They despise it. They flay it. O, my people, they do not love your hands. Those they only use, tie, bind, chop off and leave empty, Love your hands. Love them. Raise them up and kiss them. Touch others with them, put them together, stroke them on your face 'cause they don't love that either. You  got to love it. You. Yonder out there, they ain't in love with your moth. They will see it broken and break it again. What you say out of it, they will not heed. What you scream from it they do not hear. No, they don't love your mother. You got to love it. And the feet that need to rest and to dance. The backs that needs support. The shoulders that need arms, strong arms I'm telling you! O my people, out yonder they don't love your neck unnoosed and straight. So love your neck; put a hand on it, grace it, stroke it and hold it up. Love all your inside parts, love 'em..and the beating heart, love that too. More than eyes or feet. More than lungs that have yet to draw free air, love your heart. For this is the prize.
****Dialogues from script :Best_Exotic_Marigold_Hotel.txt****

automated voice		Thank you for your patience. Your call is important to us. We will be with you shortly.
female voice		Mrs Greenslade, thank you for
female voice		Mrs Greenslade, since the account is not in your name, before we can make any changes we need to speak to the account holder. Can I please talk to the account holder?
evelyn		What?
female voice		I'm asking if I can speak to the account holder. Before we can make any changes -
evelyn		You can't talk to him, no.
giles		We're late.
graham		Bloody retirement parties. Hard cheese, soft wine, and endless speeches. Why do people do that? No one ever said about any kind of party: it was a wonderful occasion, just a shame that the speeches were so short.
giles		it'll be you one day.
graham		One day very soon.
giles		You've been saying that for years. They walk into a large room, full of lawyers.
judge		An occasion such as this leads one to cast ones mind back to the days when I first entered my pupillage. I had the very good fortune of serving as a junior to Mr Justice Stancombe Graham's not listening any more. He's looking around the room. At the old, tired faces.
graham		This is the day. Everyone looks round at him. He's almost as surprised as they are that he's spoken out loud.
giles		Graham?
graham		This is the day. He turns and walks out.
muriel		Listen, young lady. I want a cup of tea, and I want it now.
karen		The trolley will be along shortly.
muriel		How hard d'you have to fall down before you get some proper attention? Hours I've been lying here, and not a single doctor has come to see me.
karen		Now that's not quite true, is it Mrs Donnelly?
muriel		That one? She looks up to the far end of the ward, where a doctor is washing his hands. He's black.
muriel		He can wash all he likes, that colour's not coming out. I want an English doctor.
karen		An English doctor? Why didn't you say so? I'll get one right away. She goes away, comes back moments later with a tall, handsome doctor. The bad news for Muriel is
evan		So as I say, what you're looking at here is very competitively priced, you can't get better value for your grey pound. Another little feature, not necessary right now, but give it a couple of years
jean		What if we fell somewhere else?
evan		Sorry?
jean		It's just that we might not manage to plan our sudden fall in the exact corner where the button is.
evan		Yeah. As I say -
jean		And would it be possible to get the rail to go through the middle of the room as well?
jean		To help us get across, not just around?
jean		Thirty years in the Civil Service and this is all we can afford?
douglas		Would it help if I apologized again?
jean		No. But try it anyway.
judith		And then after that I worked as a systems analyst for a few years but I just found it so dull, what I really wanted was to do something that was more creative, that matched my ...
norman		That's right, yes. So did I. They're at a speed dating evening. Numbered tables, etc.
judith		How old are you?
norman		Early 40's.
judith		D'you mean you were born in the early 40's?
norman		Judy, I know what you're asking -
judith		It's Judith.
norman		Judith. And trust me, I've still got it. The bell goes; the signal for the women to get up and move along to the next table. Judith leaves without looking back.
craig		This is crazy. You're crazy. You can't just up and leave like this.
madge		And yet if you watch me, that's exactly what you'll see happen. She picks up her suitcases, heads out of the room. Madge's daughter JESSICA is on the landing.
jessica		What's going on?
craig		Your mother's lost it.
jessica		My mother never had it.
craig		Talk to her. She doesn't listen to me.
madge		Nobody listens to you. She heads down the stairs. Craig and Jessica follow.
jessica		I still don't understand what's going on.
craig		I just asked her to babysit. And now she says she's leaving. They're at the bottom of the stairs. Jessica's children, LIAM and KATIE, are watching.
jessica		But you love babysitting.
madge		I loved it last night.
liam		We had pizza and stayed up late.
madge		And the night before.
katie		We had Chinese and stayed up late.
liam		If you don't go, tonight we could do a curry.
madge		It's tempting, my darlings, but you know why I must leave.
liam		We know.
katie		 Being here is stopping her finding a husband.
craig		Another one?
madge		Don't let the buggers get you down. Madge turns to go.
craig		How many husbands have you had, anyway? She turns back, smiles.
madge		Including my own? Then she's out of the front door, and heading for the taxi.
jessica		Mother? Mother!
taxi driver		Name the place, darling. Where are you going? Madge smiles.
madge		I have absolutely no idea.
christopher		There's no other way There just isn't. Harold told us this three months ago.
harold		And I'm afraid matters have only got worse.
christopher		We can't wait any longer. We need to put this flat on the market, and at least make a start at paying off Dad's debts.
harold		I think that's best, Evelyn. It's what Hugh would've wanted. They wait for confirmation from Evelyn. None comes.
christopher		Good. Settled. End of discussion.
evelyn		That's what your father used to say.
evelyn		When there'd never really been any discussion at all.
christopher		I want to look after things for you.
evelyn		And look how that turned out. She turns to Harold
dr ghujarapartidar		You need a new hip, Mrs Donnelly. It's not a difficult operation.
muriel		Easy for you to say, you're not having it.
dr ghujarapartidar		Regardless. You do need a new hip.
muriel		I'm not getting it from you.
dr ghujarapartidar		Not me personally, no.
muriel		Not any of your lot.
dr ghujarapartidar		I see.
muriel		So when do I have the operation?
dr ghujarapartidar		I'm afraid you'll be on a waiting list for at least six months.
muriel		At my age, I can't plan that far ahead. I don't even buy green bananas.
dr ghujarapartidar		There is another way. Our hospital trust is funding a new pilot scheme, that will enable us to out-source you to another hospital, where they can perform the procedure almost immediately, and at a fraction of the cost.
muriel		Is it local?
dr ghujarapartidar		That depends how you define local.
evelyn		How far along is the progress bar? The strip at the bottom that tells you -
christopher		I know what it is. What are you showing me anyway?
indian voice		'Come and spend your autumn years in an Indian palace with the sophistication of an English country manor. Steeped in the tradition of the Raj, tucked away on the outskirts of Jaipur .'
indian voice		it exudes historical ambience and is graced with breathtaking surroundings .'
abi		I wouldn't mind going there myself.
simon		There won't be any golf courses.
douglas		Just as well. I can't afford the green fees.
simon		But a retirement home? Douglas misses his putt.
douglas		It's a luxury development, where all the residents are in their golden years.
simon		Like the Costa Brava.
douglas		Yes. But with more elephants. Simon holes out.
giles		How long have we known each other? And you've never once talked about India.
graham		D'you want these books?
giles		You might need them again. Graham smiles at him, calls out.
graham		Mrs Megson! His cleaner, MRS MEGSON, comes in.
mrs megson		Sir? Graham takes a beautiful vase off the shelf, gives it to her.
graham		I want you to have this.
mrs megson		Are you sure?
graham		Absolutely. There's a slight crack on the bottom. But I think you might know something about that already. Mrs Megson goes.
norman		I have to go. I do. And I could say I wish you'd come, but I've never lied to you. We both know I need more than you can offer. We know that. Don't we? We see who's sitting in front of him. An ancient dachshund.
mrs jellinek		 Any warm clothes you have use for no more, I take them. And not forget to leave keys when you go. She leaves. Norman is left alone.
norman		I'll miss you too.
muriel		You know who'll be there, don't you? Indians. Loads of them, A sea of brown faces and black hearts, all greasy haired and reeking of spices. Never see one on their own, do you? No, becuase they hunt in packs. All the better to rob me blind and -
jackson		You know what? You can take it from here.
muriel		You're supposed to see me into my flat. That's what they said.
jackson		My wife is from Mumbai. He heads off. Muriel shouts after him.
muriel		No good moaning to me, mate. You married her! But he's gone. Muriel wheels herself on over the bumpy ground.
christopher		You're sure your tickets are in order?
evelyn		They should be. The hotel paid for them. I'm sure they'd rather have us there than not. And its fantastically cheap for the first three months.
christopher		I wonder why. They walk on in silence.
evelyn		I'll call. They do have phones there, you know. Or you can just read my blog.
christopher		Your what?
evelyn		On the interweb. You can log in whenever you like, read my news.
christopher		I just hope the first item will be announcing your return. I don't suppose they'll be paying for the journey back...? Evelyn stops. They've reached the terminal.
evelyn		Could you please, before I go, say one thing that is supportive? Because I've never done anything like this before.
christopher		Without Dad, you never did anything at all. And i don't think you'll be able to cope.
evelyn		Well. I suppose we'll find out, won't we? They head into the building.
madge		And the connecting flight to Jaipur is first class too? The check-in girl nods, hands Madge back her passport.
norman		Come on. Thorough as you like Muriel is waiting to collect her bag from the belt.
security guard		We'd like to take a look in this bag, Madam, if you don't mind. He lifts the bag onto a table. It's heavier than he thought.
muriel		PG Tips. Brown sauce. Ten jars of Marmite. Thirty one packets of Chocolate Hobnobs. Pickled onions. Pickled eggs. And pickle.
security guard		No liquids on the plane.
muriel		What does that mean?
security guard		It means you can't take the pickled onions. Or the pickled eggs.
jean		Obviously one's read one's Kipling, but we view this as an opportunity to explore another culture, as well as making new friends. And a retired judge is just the class of guest one was hoping for, isn't it Douglas?
douglas		I'm sorry?
jean		You don't seem like an experienced traveller.
evelyn		I'm not. Although one has read one's guidebooks. Jean blinks. Evelyn and Graham share a smile. Douglas hides his. And Madge sees it all. As they head towards the baggage carousel, they're met by Muriel and Norman, emerging from the elevator. Norman is pushing Muriel's wheelchair.
norman		Norman Cousins.
madge		Madge Hardcastle. A pleasure.
norman		Play your cards right, it could be. Madge stares at him. A voice comes over the tannoy.
airport announcer		Ladies and gentlemen, we regret to inform you that owing to bad weather, Flight 105 to Jaipur has been cancelled. The airline is happy to arrange
graham		Alright. Plan B.
jean		Of course it's a good idea. Who can you trust if not a High Court Judge?
douglas		And this way we see more of the country. Norman is pushing Muriel's wheelchair.
norman		(leaning down, to
muriel		In your dirty dreams.
jean		Douglas, these are not words that often pass my lips, but you may actually be right. The country seems to be rather more civilised than one originally thought.
graham		 The bus will drop us in the centre of town. We can take tuk- tuks the rest of the way! They follow him through the hordes. And see their bus. It's absolutely rammed. People are practically hanging out of the windows.
madge		There's not enough room.
graham		It's time to prove the first and only rule of India: there's always room. He starts to fight his way to the door. Evelyn's at the back. She stops, for a moment, looks around her.
evelyn		What larks, Pip. Douglas is just ahead of her. He turns, smiles.
douglas		Let's hope so.
norman		I'm loving this! Evelyn is sitting next to Madge.
evelyn		A few months ago I was organising the church flowers.
madge		Are you struggling with the feeling you're not in control of your circumstances?
evelyn		A little.
madge		You know what the shortest prayer in the world is?
evelyn		No.
madge		Fuck it. Evelyn laughs.
jean		Are you insane? "Avoid all food not from a reputable vendor, it will have been washed with impure water." Douglas keeps eating, with great enjoyment.
douglas		It's just a sandwich.
jean		Marvellous. Then I'll have the ham, cheese, and streptococcus, please. Or perhaps the bacteria, lettuce and tomato. Douglas turns to Muriel.
douglas		Would you like some of this? I believe it's aloo ka paratha.
muriel		If I can't pronounce it, I'm not eating it. The cacophony of horns continues. Jean screams, as another collision looms.
evelyn		How long since you were here?
graham		Forty years.
evelyn		As long as I was married.
graham		I'm sorry.
evelyn		D'you think we're going to be alright?
graham		God, don't ask me. I'm more scared than you are. They both smile, sit in silence for a bit.
sonny		Welcome to India!!! They stare up at him.
sonny		This is a building of the utmost character, which means that perhaps not everything will function in the way you expect it to. But as the manager and chief executive supervising officer of the Marigold Hotel, I can tell you with great pride that the building has stood for centuries, and will stand for many more, in 100% shipshape condition. Please follow me, carefully avoiding that naughty stone there round this corner, leading us most successfully all the way to . your bedroom! The room is very small, comfortable, and tastefully decorated. But there's no door.
madge		Where?
sonny		Here. In here.
madge		My dear man. Rooms have doors. What you're showing me here is an alcove.
sonny		The door is coming soon, most definitely.
madge		How soon?
sonny		Let us not concern ourselves with details, Mrs Hardcastle. Rather than speaking of doors, we should instead take pleasure in the freedom to roam.
madge		Does your room have a door?
sonny		Oh yes.
madge		Then that's where I'll be staying.
douglas		Bird in the room! Bird in the room! Jean pushes him aside, goes on in. Several pigeons are flying around in some panic.
muriel		There's an Indian in there! Graham smiles, goes on into his room. Which is dusty, but comfortable and pleasant. He looks around with satisfaction.
muriel		My what?
ajit		Your physiotherapist. To help with your recovery after the operation.
muriel		You're not touching me.
ajit		Traditionally that is how physiotherapy is practised.
norman		This'll do.
jean		I want to stay at the other hotel, the one in the brochure.
sonny		Mrs Ainslie, prepare to be amazed. This is that very building!
jean		You've Photoshopped it!
sonny		I have offered a vision of the future.
jean		What will start to make this alright is for you to give us a refund.
sonny		Of course if that is what you desire, you must have it. Absolutely no problem, I will refund you completely.
jean		You will? Straight away?
sonny		Without question, Mrs Ainslie, I most definitely will. Straight away in three months.
ajit		Your surgeon will remove the top end of the thigh bone, and insert an artificial bone instead. A most routine procedure.
muriel		Have you got a marker pen on you?
ajit		Why?
muriel		I want to mark it. So you don't take the wrong hip.
evelyn		Oh, hello.
douglas		Is everything alright?
evelyn		I was just going to find the manager.
douglas		I'm afraid he's dealing with my wife. Or vice versa.
evelyn		I promised I'd call my son, to tell him I'd arrived, and -
douglas		And the phone in your room doesn't work. May I?
evelyn		Yes, did that.
douglas		Did you kind of bang it lightly on the desk a few times?
evelyn		That too.
douglas		Hmm. He twists off the mouthpiece of the receiver, lifts the receiver carefully. And blows on it.
evelyn		How did you come to be here? In India.
douglas		I invested our - well, my - retirement money in our daughter's internet company. She assured me that as soon as the start-up actually started up, and the conversion from virtual to actual proved sufficiently viable, then she would be able to pay it all back.
evelyn		I'm not sure I understand what most of those words mean.
douglas		It turns out neither did she. Douglas has put the mouthpiece back on, holds the receiver to his ear.
evelyn		Really?
douglas		No, of course not. I've got no idea what I'm doing. Evelyn bursts out laughing.
sonny		.Cooked lovingly by myself and my most loyalist factotum and helper, Young Wasim ... He points to YOUNG WASIM. Who is about 80, and is sitting in the corner, fast asleep.
madge		Roast what?
sonny		A wonderful taste of Blighty.
madge		Roast what?
sonny		Roast goat curry.
douglas		Yes please.
jean		So the upshot is that he's spent all our money getting us here, and we can't leave till he's made some more. Muriel has arrived at her table.
sonny		Gentle friends, you have found your way to this place, bequeathed to me by my beloved father, that I have raised from the ruins of his broken dreams, and renamed The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel For The Elderly And Beautiful. Yes, I use the words most deliberately... Norman is not looking very well at all. Sonny doesn't notice, keeps on going.
douglas		He just coughed. I heard him cough!
evelyn		He moved! He's alive!
madge		He's fainted, that's all. Sonny shakes his watch next to his ear. It's stopped. Norman sits up.
norman		What's going on? Did I nod off? Everyone crowds round Norman, helps lift him back up. Except Muriel. She just stares at them all.
muriel		Hell. I'm in hell.
evelyn		Please, can anyone direct me to this address? Evelyn's piece of paper gets passed around: none of the kids can read. An older boy finally points. Suddenly there's lots of pointing.
douglas		Graham was talking about this marvellous temple. I thought you might want to come with me.
jean		I'm your wife. Have we met?
douglas		You'd really rather stay here all day?
jean		Given the alternative, yes.
douglas		When I walk out in the morning, the street kids all smile at me.
jean		Because you give them money.
douglas		One does this trick where he holds his hands out in front of himself, and then swings through his own arms. Got to be worth a rupee or two.
graham		This can't be right, surely?
pravesh		I am thinking so, saab.
graham		But there were houses all along here . these were homes.
pravesh		I can take you some other place..?
graham		No. That'll do for now. Thank you. He hands over some money, and Pravesh pedals away. Graham turns to look at the boys playing cricket. One of them, SANJAY, is batting.
sanjay		All knocked down.
graham		And the people? The families?
sanjay		They move. Graham nods, turns to look at the giant structure that has taken over, then turns back.
graham		Don't grip so tightly with your right hand. Sanjay looks puzzled.
the ball		Sanjay looks at him, squinting in the sun.
muriel		When can I go back to England?
ajit		As soon as you can walk onto the plane. How does the hip feel?
muriel		They must have got lucky.
ajit		It's strange. I think the more operations they perform, the luckier they get. He glances down at Muriel, who betrays no signof getting Ajit's joke.
evelyn		I'm so sorry. I didn't realise - She backs into a kind of flatbed trolley, piled high with cooking utensils, which clatter noisily to the ground. She goes to pick them up.
suresh		Yes.
suresh		Yes.
evelyn		Do you understand me? Can you help me find this place?
suresh		Yes.
evelyn		Is that yes you understand, or yes you can help me?
suresh		Yes. Some of the children who have gathered laugh at this, and the tension is broken slightly.
evelyn		Let's go with both, shall we?
sanjay		Give me the ball. I can take him. He turns cheerily to Graham.
graham		Come on. Do your worst. They're both enjoying the banter, as Sanjay heads back to the beginning of his run-up, then turns and sprints in to bowl. As Graham watches Sanjay running towards him, Sanjay seems to slow, his movements becoming sluggish, never seeming to reach the crease. He looks at the faces of the other boys, frozen, waiting. The ball seems to take forever to leave Sanjay's hand. Graham steps back, completely fails to play a stroke, and is bowled.
sanjay		That's what I'm talking about! I felt the need, the need for - Graham still hasn't moved.
graham		Yes. Yes, I'm fine.
suresh		Yes. Suresh helps Evelyn down off the back.
evelyn		Thank you.
suresh		Yes.
evelyn		This is it?
suresh		Yes.
evelyn		Then thank you. You're very kind.
suresh		Yes. He rides off. Evelyn looks nervously up at the building.
telemarketers		Thank you for talking to us today We do appreciate your call while I have you on the phone, can I talk to you about our special offers . your call is important to us . now is there anything else I can help you with ... shouldn't take more than five minutes . your custom is valuable to us
jay		You're sure I can't offer you something? We have English Breakfast Tea. Building Tea, as you call it.
evelyn		Builder's tea. It's called builder's tea. And no, I'm fine. Thank you.
jay		Tell me then. How can I help you? Beat.
evelyn		I don't think you can. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have come. She stands.
evelyn		I saw your advertisement in the local paper, and it specifically mentioned the ability to talk to older people. But this is not what I imagined ...
jay		You came for a job?
evelyn		I've wasted your time.
jay		Mrs Greenslade. Everyone working here is a graduate of a good university. This is a place for ambitious people. Young people.
evelyn		I see that. Good day.
jay		Please. One second. Evelyn stops.
evelyn		Yes. We dunk biscuits into it.
jay		You dunk?
evelyn		It means lowering a biscuit into your tea, letting it soak in there, then trying to calculate the exact moment just before it dissolves to whip it up to the mouth, and enjoy the blissful union of biscuit and tea combined.
jay		Perhaps you can help us after all.
sunaina		We do appreciate your custom, which is very important to us. And can I draw your attention to our special - But the person at the other end has hung up. Sunaina starts to dial another number. Then the clock hits 11, and a buzzer sounds. Sunaina gets up, heads for the door.
sunaina		I get two breaks in eight hours. Explain to me why I would want to waste one of them with you -
sonny		Leave this place. Come and work for me.
sunaina		You can't afford me.
sonny		I cannot afford anything.
sunaina		Still tempting. I miss you. Am I coming round tonight?
sonny		Let's meet somewhere else. I will rent a hotel room.
sunaina		Sonny, you own a hotel. It has many rooms.
sonny		Some of them now occupied. With actual real guests.
sunaina		Paying guests?
sonny		Why must you nitpick? It is not an attractive quality.
sunaina		It isn't? They kiss again, start to make out a bit. Then
sonny		Hello Jay.
jay		Sonny boy.
sonny		Don't call me that. Jay smiles, holds the door open for Sunaina.
jay		Let's go.
jean		Good evening, Your Honour.
graham		Mrs Ainslie. I hope you had a good day. What did you get up to?
jean		Well, I started in my bedroom, where I had a lovely couple of hours giving all the cockroaches names. Then after a lunch that will long have a place in my heartburn, I came out here and stared blindly at a book waiting for someone - anyone to rescue me. And how glad I am it was you.
graham		Why would you not go out? There's so much to see. Jean had hoped for some appreciation of her wit, and is floored by his question. She can hardly understand, let alone tell him, the depths of her discomfort.
jean		I would appreciate that very much. Graham goes on in. Jean just sits there. Wishing he'd come back out again.
graham		Good evening.
evelyn		Good evening. Evelyn sits at her table.
graham		I'd rather hear about yours.
evelyn		I got a job. My first. Ever. I'm going to be a sort of cultural advisor.
graham		A role I'm sure you'll perform with great distinction. He's about to inquire further, when Evelyn sees Douglas and Jean emerge from their room.
evelyn		Perhaps if you wouldn't mind keeping that news to yourself.
graham		I'm flattered you shared it with me. He turns to greet the new arrivals.
evelyn		Have you had a good day?
douglas		Spectacular.
jean		So spiritual, I bet you hardly noticed the smell of elephant dung.
douglas		No elephants, sadly. Still none.
jean		Yes, where do you get to every day?
graham		Well, I've just finished telling Mrs Greenslade all about it. Evelyn registers the lie, but says nothing.
jean		I'm sure she wouldn't mind hearing it again. She waits. But Graham is as elusive as he is tactful.
graham		I talked to the chef for you. He said it will be no problem.
jean		Did you hear that, Douglas? Plain grilled food; manna from heaven.
douglas		I don't have to have it too, do
evelyn		I'd like that very much.
douglas		But maybe take a clothes peg for your nose.
evelyn		Goodnight.
graham		Goodnight to you. He seems about to say something else. She waits for a moment, then walks on.
evelyn		Evelyn.
graham		Can I show you something?
graham		I grew up here. Just a short drive away. It was a big house, and we had servants, everyone did. We knew their wives, their children. One boy, Manoj, became my friend. We played a lot of cricket together, played anything we could. And that's how it stayed for years. Until one night, he became something more.
evelyn		Until now.
graham		And now I think .. what if I am the last person on earth he wants to see? Evelyn says nothing.
evelyn		Do you want to see him again?
graham		Yes. Yes. Oh yes.
evelyn		Then you must.
sonny		.. the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel can rise like a phoenix to its previous state of glory. And when I say small injection, I mean small in the sense of medium- sized. Possibly larger.
mr maruthi		This hotel was never glorious.
sonny		Just the phoenix part then.
mr maruthi		How many rooms will there be?
sonny		Many.
mr maruthi		How many?
sonny		A great amount. Plenty of rooms, no question. They've arrived in the courtyard.
mr maruthi		Nor was your father. They see Muriel on her verandah.
sonny		Mr Maruthi, I present to you one of our beloved guests. Dear Mrs Donnelly, please describe in as much detail as you desire your experience of the ambience and atmosphere of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel.
muriel		Kill me. Kill me now. Sonny steers Mr Maruthi towards the reception, speaks quietly.
sonny		The wheel is spinning. But the hamster is dead. He stops, as he sees an elegant older woman standing in the doorway. This is the redoubtable MRS KAPOOR.
mrs kapoor		You called. I came.
sonny		I couldn't have called. The phones don't work.
mrs kapoor		That's why I came.
mrs kapoor		Who was that man out there?
sonny		The contents of this desk are mine. Don't open the drawers. I must insist you don't open the drawer. Mrs Kapoor opens the drawer.
mrs kapoor		Do I need a reason to visit my favourite son?
sonny		No. He is in his mansion in Delhi.
mrs kapoor		My second favourite.
sonny		He went to Kerala to make his fortune.
mrs kapoor		But make it, he did.
sonny		As I will make mine. I have a dream, Mummyji. A most brilliant one: to out-source old age. And not just for the British. There are many other countries where they don't like old people too.
mrs kapoor		Your brothers own a third of the hotel each, they are entitled to a third of the profits.
sonny		Success does not happen overnight, Mummyji. This is blue sky thinking, and it requires long-term strategy and patience.
mrs kapoor		How is your girlfriend?
sonny		I look forward to you meeting her.
mrs kapoor		And I look forward to you meeting the woman you will marry. She is from a good family in Delhi.
sonny		I can marry as I choose, Mummyji. I need no permission.
mrs kapoor		I presume it is your girlfriend who teaches you such nonsense. One reason not to marry her.
sonny		What if I love her?
mrs kapoor		An even better reason. Now send Young Wasim to the car for my luggage.
sonny		He cannot carry, he has a dicky back ... wait, your luggage? How long are you staying?
mrs kapoor		As long as it takes.
day		Jean is looking out of her bathroom window, down into the courtyard. She sees Graham come out of his room. She turns back to the mirror, looks at herself.
muriel		You won't get the dirt out like that. Anokhi just smiles at her radiantly.
graham		She won't speak English. She's what used to be called an Untouchable. An outcast, born below society. To a good Hindu, even her shadow is polluted. He greets Anokhi in Hindi, and heads for the door.
muriel		Where d'you go every day? Is it a woman? Nip round there for a curry and a bit of afters?
graham		I don't think so. I'm gay. Although nowadays more in theory than practice. Good day. He leaves. A moment later, Jean comes rushing out. Immediately she realises two things; first, that Graham has already gone. And second, that Muriel is watching her.
jean		Good morning. Muriel says nothing.
muriel		Long old life, isn't it?
mr draruna		The Viceroy Club was opened by the great Lord Kitchener himself, and many of the fixtures have remained unchanged since then.
madge		Yes, I see that. Perhaps you could tell me a little about the clientele? Any maharajahs? Wealthy widowed land-owners?
mr dharuna		It is not the policy of this club to divulge details of our members. They go past a very handsome older Indian man. Who radiates wealth and privilege.
madge		Where do I sign up?
mr dharuna		The admission fee is 120,000 rupees, and thereafter 15,000 rupees each month.
madge		I wonder if I might get a little discount. Owing to my status.
mr dharuna		Your status, madam?
madge		Yes. One was rather hoping to fly under the radar, but one is a member of the Royal Family.
mr dharuna		Which member, madam?
madge		I'm Princess Margaret.
graham		Good morning.
mr chidambram		Good morning, Sir. Did I not say that we will contact you when there is information regarding your inquiry?
graham		Yes, you did say that. You did.
mr chidambram		While it is most pleasant to see you, your presence does not actually accelerate our investigation.
graham		I'll try not to come in tomorrow.
mr chidambram		I expect I will see you then.
evelyn		.You ring in the morning. Let's assume the person answering will be a woman. She will have had her breakfast. Tea or coffee. Semi-skimmed milk, always. If she's under 50 she'll be contemplating yet another diet, over 50 she'll have more or less given up, and be eating toast. The radio may be playing, or more likely daytime TV. A chat show, or a programme with a moderator speaking to a panel of young women whose boyfriends have all slept with their mothers. The girlfriends' mothers, I mean, not their own. Although Anyway, then the boyfriends usually come out, and everybody fights. Sunaina is in the audience. She calls out.
sunaina		I'm not surprised people hang up on us. Laughter.
evelyn		That's the point. When the phone rings and it's this robot nobody wants a machine, but it's almost worse when it's a person behaving like one. All these sales cliches just strung together. 'Your call is important to us'. Is it? Well then sound like it.
sunaina		'Your custom is valuable'.
evelyn		Right. That one. Don't ever say that.
sunaina		'Service is our middle name'.
evelyn		Yes, when your middle name is
sunaina		Shantanu.
evelyn		Which is beautiful. You people are young, vibrant, real. I'm sure the typical housewife would enjoy talking to each and every one of you.
sunaina		Her morning sounds like fun. What are you doing here? Beat.
evelyn		I suppose I'm not typical anymore.
madge		Excuse me. Would there be any wealthy single men in tonight?
barman		There is one. Madge puts some money into his breast pocket.
madge		Perhaps you could seat me next to him?
barman		This way, madam. He leads her along across the terrace. Madge follows, checking her hair, her breath, etc. The barman reaches an ornate suite of furniture. There's someone sitting there, his back to us, an elegant arm draped over the side of the chair.
madge		I'll have that back, thank you very much.
graham		Good evening. Muriel nods at him, and he goes on into his room. A moment later, Jean sits down next to Muriel.
jean		You know where he goes. I know you know. But you won't tell me. Muriel says nothing.
muriel		Public Records Office.
jean		Thank you.
sonny		My father used to bring me to this well to swim. He said the water was better, and so were the people we would meet.
sunaina		She hasn't met me yet.
sonny		She doesn't need to meet you Sunaina absorbs this.
sunaina		Isn't this where you tell her what you want?
sonny		That conversation will be easier when the hotel is a success.
sunanina		Do you love me?
sonny		I have found a new investor. I am most optimistic that he will enable us to move forward with Phase Two of the Marigold Hotel
sunanina		Shouldn't you finish Phase One first?
sonny		In business, if you stand still, you move backwards. No, I have that wrong. If you stand still, you are overtaken by people going the other way. Wait -
sunaina		You didn't answer the question. Do you love me?
sonny		My feelings for you cannot be reduced to a single word.
sunaina		It's a nice word, Sonny. And people like hearing it.
sonny		Sunaina, please. My mother is wrong. It is you who are too good for me.
sunanina		You say that a lot. You shouldn't I'll start to believe you. They watch the boys in the water.
norman		I still think you're cramping my style.
madge		Please. You have no style to cramp.
norman		That lady at the bar keeps looking at me.
madge		As one would something in a museum.
norman		Why must you mock? I just want to feel young again, to be needed as much as I need, if only for one night, one wonderful night. Tell me you don't know how that feels.
madge		Give me a minute. Then join us. She gets up, heads towards the bar. Where she sits a couple of seats away from the woman. Who is called CAROL. She sits there a moment, then sighs, and starts to talk to the barman.
norman		Those drinks not ready yet? Madge turns to Carol.
madge		They say patience is passion tamed. Carol smiles.
carol		Carol.
madge		And this . is Norman.
carol		How do you do?
norman		Carol? As in Christmas? Madge winces.
carol		I suppose.
norman		Great. Silence.
madge		So what brings you to Jaipur, Carol?
norman		Yes, Carol. What brings you to Jaipur?
carol		I run a small boutique travel agency. But I've actually lived here all my life. My father worked in the Foreign Office. Another silence.
norman		You're very fit.
carol		I beg your pardon?
madge		Oh god.
norman		I mean you look like you keep yourself in shape. Physically.
carol		Well, I did join a gym last year. It cost a fortune, and I didn't get any fitter. Apparently you have to actually go. Madge laughs. Norman doesn't. Then realizes that it was a joke, lets out a too-loud bray of laughter.
norman		Me?
carol		Yes.
norman		Oh. I'm
madge		Norman's in business.
carol		Really?
norman		Yes.
carol		What business?
madge		Import-Export.
norman		Although these days there's rather more Ex- than Im-, if you see what I mean.
carol		I'm afraid I don't. Madge gets up.
madge		I have to splash some water on my face. Please God I drown in it. She heads for the bathroom. Norman and Carol share another silence.
carol		Well look, it's been lovely chatting.
norman		No it hasn't.
carol		No. It hasn't. But I really
norman		Carol? She was about to go, stops.
carol		My name is Carol. So am I.
evelyn		. only a present that builds and creates itself as the past withdraws ...
evelyn		And India, like so many things in life, like life itself I suppose, is about what you bring to it.
muriel		Where's this? Where are we?
ajit		Janta Colony Kachi Basti.
muriel		What happened to my usual route?
ajit		Anokhi has invited you to her home.
muriel		You didn't tell me.
ajit		You'd have said no.
jean		Will you check in at the bank? Douglas emerges from the bathroom.
douglas		I checked yesterday. And the day before. As requested.
jean		Why do you ask that every morning?
douglas		Because I hope for a different answer. Because I think you'll be hurt if I don't. And because it's not healthy for you to spend all day and every day in the confines of the hotel. He goes back into the bathroom. Jean changes the subject.
jean		I didn't sleep a wink. The tap in there never stops dripping.
jean		What did he say?
douglas		No time like the present. Actually I say that, but I enjoyed yesterday, and I'm optimistic about tomorrow too.
jean		I wish I could say the same.
douglas		So do I. He goes. Jean sits for a while, looking utterly disconsolate and lost. Then she gets up, goes over to the balcony. Down below she can see Graham leaving.
norman		Your Madgesty.
madge		I gather the night went well.
norman		Would you like to hear about it?
madge		Not in the least.
norman		Good. Because you're going to. Two drinks, some sexually charged
douglas		Morning. Lovely day.
madge		Good morning. They watch him leave.
norman		Two drinks, some sexually charged banter, and we were heading back to her place. Bidding the rickshaw farewell, I walked her to the door.
madge		And?
norman		And what?
madge		Is that all? You didn't seal the deal?
norman		We have a date next week.
madge		What is wrong with you?
norman		I wanted to prolong the anticipation. To spend some time with the knowledge that soon I'm going to eat, drink, and laugh with someone, hold her to me, kiss her softly. Then go back to her place and get my end away.
evelyn		 Bow much for this, please Kitna
akram		One thousand rupees Ek hazaar
evelyn		Thank you. She reaches for her wallet. Then Douglas speaks from behind her.
douglas		No no, forgive me. That's not how it works.
evelyn		Good morning.
douglas		And to you. Sorry to butt in, but you don't ask him how much he wants, you just tell him how much you'll pay.
akram		One thousand rupees.
douglas		Pity.
douglas		I know what I'm doing. Evelyn complies, and they turn and walk away.
evelyn		Yes. The thing is, you see, I did actually want to buy that. To brighten up my room.
douglas		He'll come after us.
evelyn		Do you think so?
douglas		Absolutely. This is how the game is played. Just keep on walking. They push through the crowds.
evelyn		Eight hundred and fifty, nine hundred, nine hundred and fifty, one thousand. She turns to Douglas, smiles.
muriel		How soon can I leave?
douglas		You see what I think, and of course I'm no expert, is that the valve seat has eroded, so we'll need the washer changed and a new seat re-ground. Douglas glances back at Evelyn. Who betrays not the slightest scepticism. Jamshed studies the tap.
jamshed		The gland nut has come away from the spindle.
douglas		Well of course, it could be that too. Can you fix it?
jamshed		Not cheaply. Not cheaply. Most expensively indeed. Jamshed takes the tap to a workstation at the back, starts to fiddle with it. Douglas joins Evelyn.
douglas		I was in a tuk-tuk the other day, didn't seem to be taking the usual route back to the hotel. It turned out that the driver had decided to take me to another hotel, that he was sure I would prefer. And of course one wants to believe that he genuinely had my welfare at heart, and that it wasn't run bg his brother-in-law.
evelyn		The day I met my husband was the day the fair came to town. My girlfriend and I went on the carousel. Her horse was fine. But when the ride began I felt mine give a little, like it might collapse. Then these strong arms were around me, holding the horse together. And a voice in my ear said "Just trust me". And I did. Without question. Until the day he died.
douglas		How wonderful.
evelyn		The sale of our flat went through last week. I had to sell it to pay off Hugh's debts.
jamshed		No good. You must be buying another.
ajit		She wants to thank you for your kindness.
muriel		I haven't been kind.
ajit		You're the only one that acknowledges her. Anokhi brings out a plate of food.
anokhi		Tarkha dhal. Chapati.
muriel		I'm not eating that.
ajit		You will insult her very deeply if you do not. Muriel looks up. They're all still watching, waiting smiling. She looks at Anokhi's grandmother, as dignified as she is old. Muriel reaches out, takes something off the tray. And has a bite. It's not too bad.
muriel		I'd still rather a Scotch Egg. Then she sees something through the open doorway: the children have turned her wheelchair on its side and are spinning the wheels. She's on her feet in a flash.
graham		But I've filled out that form. I've given it to you. Many times.
mr chidambram		There is a process. You are making an enquiry. For each enquiry a form must be filled in.
graham		But it's the same enquiry I make every day.
mr chidambram		And therefore the same form you must fill in. Graham glances towards the doorway, catches sight of Jean. Their eyes lock, then Jean pulls back out of sight, panicked.
graham		Mrs Ainslie... .?
jean		I don't know how you can bear this country. What do you see that I don't?
graham		Unutterable beauty. Everywhere. In the light, the colours, the smiles, the people who see life as a privilege not a right, and so teach me something every day. The waiter brings their tea.
jean		Is this milk pasteurized?
waiter		Yes madam.
jean		But that's not true, is it? You're just lying to me right now
graham		It'll be fine. The waiter goes.
jean		Is it? She looks at him.
graham		Yes. That's progress. Where were you going?
jean		To the bank. I . was going to the bank. Not that there's any reason to think something has changed. But our daughter, you see, she did promise, and one does try to remain optimistic. One has to. Otherwise
otherwise		Graham worries she might be about to break down. He reaches across the table, puts his hand on hers. She leans forward, puts her other hand over his, holds on tightly. Graham is startled. He tries gently to pull back, but she holds on.
jean		Oh god. Is it possible you feel the same? She brings his hand to her mouth, kisses it.
graham		I'm gay. She stares at him. Beat.
jean		As in ... happy? Graham says nothing. Jean lets go of his hand.
graham		I'm not embarrassed. Jean smiles wanly, grateful for his lie.
jean		Like I said. This country is driving me mad.
evelyn		Anything?
evelyn		How about now?
evelyn		What?
evelyn		Mrs Ainslie, how are you? Did you have a good day? Jean doesn't answer. She's staring at Douglas. Who looks so happy.
douglas		Let me tell you about ours. Your husband of many a year, who has never even known which end of a hammer to use, has actually managed to -
douglas		What did you say?
jean		I can't stay in this country a moment longer.
douglas		Why ...?
evelyn		Do excuse me. She makes a tactful exit. Jean is going past Douglas into their room.
douglas		I don't understand
jean		. we should never have come. This whole trip is a grotesque fantasy. It's time to go home. Jean starts to pack. Irrationally, compulsively.
douglas		Who's paying for the tickets?
jean		 Look at us. A group of self- deluding old fossils traipsing around as if it's our bloody gap year. Humiliating ourselves
douglas		Not us, we can't pay. And I don't see you asking our friends
jean		Yes, well. When I want your opinion, I'll give it to you.
dr rama		Mr John Smith. No response. The doctor looks at Norman, who has forgotten his own alias. DR RAMA  Mr John Smith? Norman jumps up.
norman		That's right! Me!
sonny		Come on. Pick up pick up pick up. The phone is answered at the other end.
jay		I think it's my sister you're burning for there, Sonny boy.
sonny		Thank you, Jay. Thank you. Jay hands the phone to Sunaina.
sunaina		Hey.
sonny		Private line, Sunaina. Do those words mean nothing to you?
sunaina		He took the phone. What could I do?
sonny		I miss you. I miss you every moment. Come and see me. Tonight.
sunaina		I cannot tonight. It is my parents 25th wedding anniversary. Tell your mother that.
sonny		Come after. Come late
sunanina		You'll be asleep.
sonny		I'll be waiting.
sunanina		You'll be asleep. But i can wake you in that special way...
sonny		You will sneak in?
sunaina		I'm not ashamed.
sonny		Neither am I. Absolutely not. There is no shame. You do not have to sneak.
norman		I'm worried there's no lead in my pencil.
dr rama		OK. I don't know what that means.
norman		No snap in my celery.
dr rama		I'm still not quite with you.
norman		I plan to party hearty tonight, but I can't guarantee that my love gun will fire.
dr rama		Mr Smith -
norman		Will the lance dance, and the trouser lion roar?
dr rama		What is your problem?
norman		I don't know if I can still have sex.
dr rama		Ah.
norman		I'm not a young man anymore, doctor. And I'm a little bit scared. Truth be told, I'm a lot scared.
dr rama		How long since you've been with a woman?
norman		What's today?
dr rama		Monday.
norman		Six years.
dr rama		I've got some pills that'll help.
ajit		She asks if you have children?
muriel		I looked after somebody else's. Ajit translates.
ajit		Did you want me translate that as well? Muriel smiles. It's the first time we've seen this. Muriel stops, thrusts something into Ajit's hand.
muriel		Give her these.
norman		Aaaaaah, freak out! Le freak, c'est chic .. Aaaah, freak out! Feet slapping in the soapy water, he performs a nifty disco move.
evelyn		I've been getting out and about as much as I can, but I feel I've hardly scratched the surface. And of course I'd love to see Udaipur. The lake you talked about.
graham		I'd love to take you. Perhaps - He breaks off. Douglas and Jean have come in. Jean looks rather desperate.
graham		Good evening, Mrs Ainslie. Please allow me. He pulls a chair out for her. She shoots him a look of passionate gratitude for his exquisite sensitivity.
jean		You're very kind. But I rather think I'll turn in early. Goodnight everyone. She goes into her room.
madge		Is this it?
norman		This is it.
madge		You're not worried about the danger of having sex at your age? Norman shrugs.
norman		If she dies, she dies. He leaves. Sonny sprints into the courtyard.
sonny		Progress, Mrs Donnelly, Mrs Hardcastle! The wheel is turning most assuredly in our favour! He shoots up the stairs.
sonny		Mr Dashwood! Everybody! Great news!
graham		What is it, Sonny?
sonny		They are working, they are working!
graham		That is great news. What are working?
sonny		The telephones of the Marigold Hotel.
graham		Well, congratulations.
sonny		Thank you. I must tell everybody. I must tell my mother! He runs off. Comes back.
graham		It's a false alarm. There's no way they could find anything in that office. They probably just picked an address at random, just to keep me off their backs. I'm sure that's what happened. It's going to be nothing. Don't you think it's going to be nothing?
evelyn		I think you should knock on the door and see.
graham		Yes. Yes I should.
graham		I'm sorry to disturb you so late. My name is Graham Dashwood. A long time ago I -
gaurika		I know who you are. Beat.
graham		I am afraid I don't know you.
gaurika		I am Gaurika. The wife of Manoj.
graham		(after a fraction of a
evelyn		What was she thinking?
douglas		I beg your pardon?
evelyn		His wife. Manoj's wife. She knew who Graham was. Had he told her?
douglas		Not me, I'm heading up to the Badi Mahal Palace. Very excited, been reading all about it.
evelyn		Tell me.
douglas		I would, if I could remember a word. Evelyn laughs. Then Douglas suddenly grabs her. And pulls her out of the way of a motor bike, zooming past them. Sunaina hasn't realised she nearly hit them, and powers on towards the Marigold. Douglas and Evelyn stand for a moment, startled, holding each other. Something passes between them that embarrasses them both. Then they part quickly, guiltily. They're outside a small restaurant, and with exquisite timing, a group of musicians start to play a romantic tune.
waiter		Come, please. Nice meal, please...
madge		A midnight booty call. How utterly marvellous.
sunaina		I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry . I don't know what your name is, but I'm incredibly sorry.
madge		Don't be. Most action I've had in weeks.
sunaina		If you could just please not
sonny		Do not worry, Mrs Hardcastle! I can explain each and every thing! Hesees Sunaina.
sunaina		How could you not tell me you weren't in your room!
sonny		Yes, Sunaina, to you too I must apologise with equally deep and profound sincerity. Now go. Get out. Quickly.
sunaina		I'm going. Just let me get dressed, and -
sonny		No no, quicker than that. You must leave, before - MrsKapoor flings open the door.
mrs kapoor		What is going on here? Who screamed? She sees the nearly-naked Sunaina. MRS KAPOOR  No no no no no. No! This is a respectable hotel, not a brothel.
sunaina		Mrs Kapoor, I'm Sunaina.
mrs kapoor		Since I will not be paying for your services, your name is of no interest to me.
sonny		Because this . is my Sunaina.
mrs kapoor		The girl who my son described as not too modern.
madge		This is getting interesting.
sonny		Mummyji, do not get the wrong idea. Sunaina was not here to be with Mrs Hardcastle. She was here to have sex with me! Mrs Kapoor turns to Sunaina. Who is speechless.
mrs kapoor		This is the sort of woman you are. OK. Each to her own. But do not ever try and tell me that you are suitable wife for my son.
evelyn		Sunaina? And now Sunaina is even more humiliated.
norman		I have seen the top of the mountain. And it is good. Graham nods, sits down next to him. They gaze out at the waking city.
graham		I saw someone yesterday, a man I hadn't seen for many years. A man I've loved all my life. Norman is a bit startled by this.
norman		A man... .?
graham		Yes.
norman		Carry on.
graham		 I didn't know how he'd been in the meantime, didn't want to guess. I brought disgrace upon him and his family, and imagined he might hate me for it.
norman		Top of the mountain.
graham		Yes. Norman smiles, then stands and goes on inside. Graham settles back into his chair, looks out at the world.
madge		How was the night?
norman		Rather special. He leaves. Madge just stares after him.
muriel		So there's a process, they call it pickling. I have no idea what it is, or how they do it, but whoever invented it was a smart man. But the real genius was the one who introduced an onion into the system. That I could never have thought of.
mrs kapoor		Mrs Donnelly, what are you doing here? You should not be here, talking with this one.
muriel		I'm helping her clean. If these pots get any dirtier, you'll have to serve the food with penicillin.
mrs kapoor		We have other rooms. Go to one of them instead. While this is still a hotel. She turns back to the surveyors.
ajit		He can tell you.
evening		A stunning view over the city. Madge is having a drink with Norman. Douglas is sitting on the wall, but keeps looking down towards the stairs.
madge		When someone dies, you think about your own life. And in my case, there is less of it in front of me than behind. And I don't want to grow older. I don't want to be condescended to, ignored and marginalised by society. To become peripheral to the action.
douglas		I wondered where you'd been. Evelyn turns. Douglas is on the stairs above her.
evelyn		I went to see Gaurika. Manoj's wife. I wanted to ask her what she knew. And the answer was that she knew everything, that he'd loved another man, and always would. He told her when the marriage was arranged.
jean		Mrs Greenslade, might I have my husband back now? They spring apart.
evelyn		Yes, of course.
douglas		Forgive me. Evelyn goes quickly to her room, leaving him standing there.
douglas		She was upset.
jean		Spare me your explanations. D'you think I'm jealous?
douglas		I don't see why else you would have embarrassed me. And Evelyn.
jean		You were already doing a perfectly good job of embarrassing yourself. Can you imagine how ghastly it's been for everyone to watch you mooning around after that simpering doe- eyed ex-housewife, taking advantage of her loneliness and -
douglas		God, can you hear yourself? Can you? Do you have any idea what a terrible person you've become? Jean is stunned into silence.
jean		I checked my emails. This came. She hands him a piece of paper.
madge		Are you alright?
evelyn		I just need some water. She drains the glass.
madge		That was a gin and tonic.
evelyn		Yes. I know that now.
madge		What's happened?
norman		Good evening, the Ainslies. Douglas and Jean are approaching them.
madge		How are you both?
jean		We're particularly well. Douglas, tell them our news. She looks to him, waits. He says nothing. So she turns, and smiles.
sonny		And so I would ask you to loosen the strings on your purse, Mr Maruthi, and to do it most rapidly. So that Phase Two Development of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel can begin with immediate effect. Mr Maruthi looks down, sees Muriel. She's with Anokhi, Ajit, and Young Wasim. He calls down to her.
mr maruthi		Mrs Donnelly, I believe. Sonny spots the danger, tries to lead Mr Maruthi away.
sonny		And now if you would please be following me to the ground floor
rooms		Mr Maruthi ignores him, calls down again.
mr maruthi		How are things at the hotel?
sonny		Mr Maruthi -
sonny		You see? Profound satisfaction. Such is the inevitable result of a prolonged stay at the Marigold Hotel. And now Mr Maruthi has spotted something else. The surveyors, who are still taking their measurements.
mr maruthi		What are those men doing?
sonny		 Working for me, Mr Maruthi. To create a home for the elderly so wonderful that they will simply refuse to die! Stare death in the face and say-
sonny		Mummyji, what is going on here?
mrs kapoor		I have spoken to your brothers. They want to sell the hotel. These men are here to value the building.
sonny		They are valuing the land. My brothers do not care about the building. They will knock it down.
mrs kapoor		They could just wait a month for it to fall down of its own accord.
sonny		You joke, Mummyji, but inside I know you are not laughing. You do not want to see this dream destroyed. Send these people away.
mrs kapoor		No, my son. It is too late.
sonny		Mummyji, please -
mrs kapoor		These figures do not support your argument.
sonny		There is still time to turn things around. With a small injection of funds, we can -
mrs kapoor		Who is trusting you with that money? Eh? You, who cannot run a chai stand. Just like your father.
sonny		Do I remind you of him so much? Is that why you must be cruel to me?
mrs kapoor		You think I am cruel?
sonny		You loved my father. And he loved this hotel.
sonny		Not easier, Mummyji. Smaller. He leaves. Mrs Kapoor comes back to the desk, fiddling with some paperwork, discomfited. She turns to the doorway. Muriel is there, in her chair.
mrs kapoor		Mrs Donnelly. Can I help you?
muriel		Depends. Do you know how to use a computer?
mrs kapoor		I assume you are joking.
muriel		Mrs Ainslie said she had an address where I could get some things I need. Some biscuits. She said I could get them on the line.
mrs kapoor		I wish you luck. Mrs Kapoor smiles, and leaves. Muriel watches her go, then turns to the computer. Her fingers fly across the keyboard.
jean		The whole thing is actually tremendously exciting. Not just getting on a plane, but getting on a plane and turning left.
norman		Turning left?
jean		First class. And home in time for our 40th wedding anniversary. We haven't yet decided how to mark the occasion.
madge		Perhaps a minute's silence?
norman		 Two should fit us all, I think.
evelyn		I'm actually going to walk. Apparently they're getting ready for a festival.
douglas		Perhaps you'd like one of us to accompany you.
madge		I'm happy to walk with you.
evelyn		I'll be fine. Evelyn speaks to both Douglas and Jean.
jean		Thank you. Evelyn turns, and walks away.
douglas		Was that Sonny?
yes		 Ma?
evelyn		I just wanted to hear your voice.
sonny		Mrs Greenslade. Where are the others?
evelyn		They're on their way to the hotel. Sonny looks around, at a loss.
sonny		I wanted to warn you before you see for yourself of the most momentous changes that are occurring, absolutely all of them without question for the very positive.
evelyn		What are you talking about?
sonny		I am delighted to announce the closing of the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, and the joyful return of all of its inhabitants to their home country.
evelyn		What?
mrs kapoor		Please relax in the knowledge that your journey home is being arranged, and paid for by the hotel.
madge		Our journey here was arranged and paid for by the hotel, and look how that went. I'd rather walk back to England.
norman		I'd rather not go back at all. A voice comes behind them. Carol has come out of the courtyard.
carol		Why would you have to?
sonny		And for myself the news is even better. I shall be moving to Delhi to live with my mother, and furthermore I shall be wed to a most suitable person of her choice, whom I look forward very much to meeting before I spend the rest of my life with her.
evelyn		But what about your girlfriend?
sonny		She is no longer my girlfriend.
evelyn		This is a disaster.
sonny		Then we must treat it just the same as we would treat a triumph, is that not what your Mr Kipling tells us? Although of course, here we have a problem. Because I, Sunil Indrajit Kapoor, have never had a triumph, so of course I do not know how to treat one. No, all I have had is an constant series of disasters interspersed with the occasional catastrophe, an unending stream of total -
evelyn		Sonny, do you love her? Sunaina?
sonny		Most deeply.
evelyn		Have you told her you love her?
sonny		It is because I love her that I must not tell her. She can do so much better than me.
evelyn		And you have told her that?
sonny		Many times.
evelyn		Good. Women love it when you say that kind of thing. It's a powerful aphrodisiac.
sonny		Really?
evelyn		No, of course not. Go and find her right now, before you lose her forever. Her future is hers to choose, and so is yours. You can have anything you want, Sonny. You just need to stop waiting for someone to tell you you deserve it. Or you can just keep failing yourself, and hurting the ones you love -
sonny		Mrs Greenslade, stop drilling! You have struck oil! He goes to his bike, climbs on, and rockets off.
madge		Where's Norman?
carol		Packing.
madge		But we don't have to leave yet.
carol		I asked him to come and stay with me.
madge		Is that wise? I'm not sure he's trained.
carol		You think it's too soon.
madge		It doesn't matter what I think.
carol		It is too soon. But at our age we can't afford the luxury of taking it slow. And it's either this or he goes home and I don't want him to go home. Madge looks at her for a while. Then smiles.
madge		I wish you both the very best.
carol		You haven't met anyone?
madge		Single by choice. Just not my choice.
carol		Did you know Norman brought pills? The first night he stayed with me?
madge		They obviously did the trick.
carol		I saw them in his pocket. I didn't want it to be like that. So when I had the chance I swapped them.
norman		Ready?
muriel		Do you want him to see you?
douglas		My wallet, I forgot my wallet. One second. Before Jean has a chance to say anything, he goes back in.
muriel		She's not back yet. Douglas stops. Beat.
douglas		Right.
douglas		 False alarm. Had it the whole time. Let's go.
jay		What's going on? Sonny is doubled over, totally out of breath. Holds up a finger.
sonny		I need to see Sunaina!
jay		Her shift's not over. And when it is, she doesn't want to see you. Beat.
sonny		Jay, you are the son my mother wished I was; an intelligent man, with a strong head for business. You see things as they are, not as you wish them to be. So fuck off out of my way. Jaydoesn't move.
sunaina		Including your mother?
sunaina		His mother.
sonny		I will tell every mother in the land.
sonny		The only thing that matters in this world. That I love you. And always will.
sunaina		Why is he only saying this now?
sunaina		Why are you only saying this now?
sonny		Because, Sunaina, love of my life, no more will I believe that I am not worthy, for only by loving you as you deserve will I become so. On Sunaina's face as she hears this.
douglas		It's funny. They call it rush hour, but nothing actually moves.
jean		Douglas?
douglas		Yes?
jean		If you say one more word, I'll kill you with my thumbs.
muriel		Where d'you think you're going?
madge		You may well ask. Madge is sitting under the shade of a tree..
norman		We're moving in together.
muriel		Already?
carol		That point has been made.
mrs kapoor		The hotel is closing.
muriel		Doesn't have to. Silence. Everyone stares at Muriel. She takes out the spreadsheets.
jean		This is ridiculous. It could go on for hours. There's no way we're ever going to get out of here.
douglas		Maybe there is. A rickshaw arrives next to them, swerving through the traffic. It is ridden by IFTI.
jean		You. Can you get us to the airport?
ifti		Sorry long way sore legs not possible.
jean		I'll give you everything I have.
ifti		Step right in mind your head let's go.
jean		Come on, Douglas. Come on! Douglas gets the suitcases out of the trunk of the cab.
ifti		Sorry no manage people and cases.
jean		 What?
ifti		Not possible. Two person, no cases; one person, and cases.
jean		 How about if I give you something else? My watch?
douglas		We'll get another flight. We can go back to the hotel, and leave in the morning.
jean		No.
douglas		Jean, you heard what he said. He can't do it.
jean		He can do one person, and cases.
douglas		Yes, but
jean		Could fate find a better way to tell us what we need to hear?
douglas		Which is what?
jean		That it's over. It was over a long long time ago.
douglas		This is not the time to talk about this. Let's wait till we
jean		I have to go, Douglas.
douglas		I won't let you.
jean		No, you'll want to come after me. Chase me to the airport and tell me everything will be fine. But please don't. Because the truth is we both deserve more than we've had. You're just too kind and too loyal to admit it.
mrs kapoor		I don't know what any of these figures mean. Sonny and Sunaina drive into the courtyard, screech to a halt. They dismount.
sonny		Mummyji? Mummyjit
mrs kapoor		Right here, you do not need to shout.
sonny		Do you remember what my father used to say? That nothing happens unless first we dream. Like him I have dreamt, Mummyji, and like him, I have failed. The Marigold Hotel is crumbling into dust. And it turns out I can live with that. But the one thing I will not do is live without this girl. To whom I did not introduce you properly before.
sunaina		I am very pleased to meet you, Mrs Kapoor.
mrs kapoor		 No. I forbid it. I forbid this match. Utterly and completely. Do you hear me, Sonny? This cannot happen. And then a low, rumbling sound comes from the corner. Like a quiet volcano. Young Wasim is speaking. It's a long, poetic and heartfelt speech. Unfortunately it's in Hindi.
madge		What is he saying?
muriel		What he said to me, I imagine. She turns to Sunaina.
sunaina		He is saying . he is saying that he has been with this family as long as he can remember. Given them a lifetime of service. And that he remembers another fight, between two young people and their parents. And he remembers the moment where the young man stood up to his mother
mrs kapoor		. and said yes, I want to marry this woman. Yes, she is from a different community. But she is smart, she is beautiful, and I love her. Long pause. MRS KAPOOR  Take care of my favourite son. Sunaina shakes her hand.
norman		So I'm not clear now. Am I staying or going?
muriel		Depends how you read the accounts.
sonny		The accounts?
muriel		Turns out the original plan is good, it works. Just not in the hands of an imbecile.
sonny		I knew that plan was good!
muriel		What the place needs is more money.
sonny		Unfortunately my investor, Mr Maruthi has decided that while he greatly admires my endeavors, he
muriel		He's reconsidered.
sonny		You spoke to him?
muriel		So long as there is someone to help the manager.
sonny		The manager needs no help.
sunaina		Sonny...
sonny		The manager needs a little help.
norman		I'd like to.
carol		In the shack on the roof?
norman		I sleep in the trees.
carol		I'll think about it.
madge		On my own?
muriel		You're off your game. Lost your confidence, maybe. But you're a thoroughbred. You'll be back. Madge smiles.
evelyn		What about me, Mrs Donnelly?
muriel		We haven't talked much, you and
evelyn		My loss, evidently.
muriel		Most things don't. But sometimes what happens instead is the good stuff.
evelyn		You don't know him. He's the most loyal man I've ever met.
muriel		50,000 rupees says I'm right. At your current salary that should take you three months to pay off. Muriel stands up. Everybody stares. She starts to walk slowly but proudly across the courtyard. She reaches the doorway, turns back.
muriel		If you'll excuse me, someone's waiting to help me make mango chutney. Why did no one tell me about that stuff?
mrs kapoor		Who is the new assistant manager?
muriel		Why? Are you thinking of applying for the job? She gestures for her wheelchair. Sonny rushes up with it. She sinks down.
evelyn		Good morning.
douglas		It is, isn't it?
evelyn		You're still here.
douglas		I missed the plane.
evelyn		What about Jean?
douglas		She didn't. Beat.
evelyn		I'm late for work. She goes past him.
douglas		Um ... She stops, turns.
douglas		Tea time.
evelyn		Yes.
douglas		How do you take it?
evelyn		With a little milk. She turns and walks away. She's smiling.
****Dialogues from script :Big.txt****

josh		You are standing in the cavern of the evil wizard.  All around you are the carcasses of slain ice dwarfs...Melt the wizard.  What do you want to melt him with?  What do you think I want to melt him with...  Your hesitancy has cost you dearly.  The wizard, sensing your apprehension, unleashes a fatal blow from the ice scepter.  With luck, you will thaw in several million years.  Great.
mom		C'mon Josh, it's starting to get awfully late!
josh		Okay. Okay. Okay.
josh		Take the garbage out.  Every day, take the garbage out...Rick Rodin is on the mound for the Yankees!  He looks into the catcher's mitt, shakes off the first signal, takes the turn, wipes the sweat off his brow, leans back and fires...
billy		Yeah!  Good-bye Mr. Spaulding!  ...Here, here!  Quick!
josh		Got it.  Need it.  Need it.  Got it.
billy		Hey.  Hey.  Hey!  You ever go by Simpson's desk when she's grading papers or somethin'?  When she's leaned over, you can see right down her shirt.
josh		No!
billy		Swear to God.
josh		Bra?
billy		No.  No.  She's got one of those undershirt things.  So if you get real close to the board, you can see all the way down to her flowers.
josh		Woah!
billy		Yeah.  Give me your gum.
josh		Need it.  Got it.  Got it.  Need it...
billy		Hey.  Hey.  Hey!  Oh my God, it's Cynthia!  How did a geek like Freddy Benson get a sister like that?
josh		Beats me.
cynthia		Hi Josh.
billy		Hi!...He says hi!...Unbelievable!  God!  She likes you!  I know she likes you!  I'll find out, okay!
josh		Don't forget to call me after supper.
billy		Okay.
josh		Remember about Cynthia!
billy		Don't worry!  I'm as interested as you are.
josh		So, will you tell me?
billy		You're in!
josh		What do you mean, I'm in?
billy		Cynthia Benson!
josh		What about her?
billy		You ready for this?  She doesn't like Barry anymore!
josh		So?
billy		So what do you mean so?!  That's it!  She's available!
mom		Josh...?
josh		It doesn't mean...
mom		Hey, it's after midnight.  Now say goodnight to Billy.
josh		Goodnight Billy.  I've gotta go.
billy		Goodnight Mrs. Baskin!  Sweet dreams.
dad		Are you sure you want to go on this thing, Son?
josh		Yeah!
mom		Nah!  Nah!  I don't know about this one, Bob.  No, this looks too scary.
dad		It's okay.
josh		Oh my gosh!
mom		See, I told you he doesn't want to go on it. DAD Son, you know, you don't have to go on this thing if you don't feel like it.
josh		No!  No!  It's just that I...I want to go on it myself.
mom		You do?
josh		Yeah.  I think it's something...yeah, I think it's something I should do.
dad		Great!  Why don't we meet you at the ferris wheel.
josh		Half hour.
cynthia		Josh?
josh		Oh, hi!
cynthia		Hi!  Have you been on this before?
josh		This?
cynthia		Yeah.
josh		Yes.
cynthia		Is it scary?
josh		Yes.
cynthia		Are you here alone?
josh		Yes.
cynthia		Look.  Aren't those your parents?
josh		Where?
mom		Honey!
cynthia		Right over there.
mom		Smile!
josh		Why, yes.
darin		Hey, who's this?
cynthia		This is Josh Baskin.
darin		How ya doin'?
cynthia		This is Darin.  He drives.
man		Next!
darin		Go ahead.
man		Yo next!
darin		Go ahead!
man		Yo next!  Woah!  Read this sign.  You must be at least this big to ride this ride!
cynthia		What?
man		Hey, I don't make the rules here.  Next!  Next!
cynthia		Well, it's a stupid rule.
man		Look, why don't you try the kiddy ride?
josh		Drop twenty-five cents here.  C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon!  ...Neat!  ...Make my wish....I wish I were big....Your wish is granted.
mom		Josh!  Josh!  Josh!
josh		What?
mom		It's seven-thirty.  Are you up?  ...Come on Sleepy Head!  You're going to miss the bus and I can't drive you today! ...What does he do in his sleep?  ...Honey?  I put out some clean clothes.  Bring down your dungarees and stuff for the laundry, okay?
josh		Okay.
mom		Are you getting a cold, Josh?
josh		No!  Fine!
mom		He's got a cold.  Then Rachel's gonna get a cold and I'm gonna get a cold...
josh		Oh my God.
mom		Breakfast is ready, Josh!
josh		Be right there!
mom		Josh!  Hurry up!  Your eggs are getting cold!  ...Bring down Rachel with you, all right?
josh		Okay!
mom		You want orange juice or...What about your breakfast?!
mom		Oh, you...don't!  Don't!
josh		I'm sorry! ...Mom, it's me.  It's Josh.  Mom, I'm a grown up!
mom		Stop it!  Oh God! JOSH I made a wish last night...I turned into a grown up, Mom!  I made this wish on a machine...
mom		Go away!  Go away!  Please!
josh		...and it turned me into a grown up!  It was last night at the carnival!  My birthday is November 3rd...I got a B on my history test!
mom		Here's my purse!  You can have anything that's in it!  Go away!
josh		My, my, my baseball team is called the Dukes!  Uh, I made this for you! Who are you calling?  Ah!  I have a birthmark behind my left knee!
mom		You bastard!  What did you do to my son?
josh		I am your son, Mom!
mom		Where is my child?!  Where is my son?!  Police!
coach		Heads up!  Heads up out there!
billy		I'm open!  Here!  I'm open!
coach		I want you to gather up these balls, go to the locker room and get on to your next class!  Wash shirts and shorts!  Billy.  Do us both a favor.  Put the balls in the equipment closet and you practice your lay up.
josh		Billy.
billy		Yeah?  What?
josh		It's me.  It's Josh!
billy		Coach Burns!  Coach Burns!  Coach Burns!
josh		Wait a minute!  Shut up!  Shut up!  I'm your best friend, you've gotta believe me!  I'll prove it to you!  Billy, please!
billy		Help!  Help!
josh		God damn it Billy Kopecky!  Look, I know that I don't look like myself, okay!  But something really strange happened and I'm really scared and I need your help!  You're my best friend!  I can prove it to you! ...Ooh!  The spades go, Down!  Down! Baby!  Down!  Down the roller coaster!  Sweet, sweet baby!  Sweet, sweet delectable!  Shimmy, shimmy cocoa pop!  Shimmy, shimmy rock!  Shimmy, shimmy cocoa pop!  Shimmy, shimmy rock!  I met a girlfriend a triscuit!  She said a triscuit a biscuit!  Ice cream, soda pop, vanilla on the top!  Ooh Shelly, walking down the street, ten times a week!  I met it!  I said it!  I stole my mother's credit!  I'm cool!  I'm hot!  Sock me in the stomach three more times!
billy		Josh?  You look terrible.
josh		I know. SCENE 13
police		That's right.  We're at the scene right now.  Well, she's pretty upset and she's not making any sense at all.  There's no ransom note, no prints, there's no nothin.'  Tell you what, file a report and to be on the safe side...
billy		We go to the city, we lay low for a couple of days, find that Zoltar Machine, make your wish...you'll be home by Thursday!
josh		Well, I'm not supposed to go to New York without my folks!
billy		C'mon!  You'll be fine!  ...Here.
josh		Where did you get this?!
billy		From my Dad's top drawer!
josh		You stole it?!
billy		It's his emergency fund!
josh		Jesus Billy!
billy		Well what do you call this?!
woman		You lookin' for some fun tonight sweet thing?
josh		No, thank you.
man		Hey man, can you spare some change?
josh		No, not really.
billy		Hey, this looks okay.
josh		No it doesn't.
billy		Saint James, Josh, it's religious.
billy		Hi.
josh		Hi.
man		Burp!
josh		Uh, we would like a hotel room, please.
man		$17.50 a night for the room, $10.00 deposit for the sheets....You go straight to the top of the stairs.  It's the last door on the right. Next to the bathroom.  Wait a second, I'll show you.
billy		It smells bad.
josh		Shh!
man		Have a pleasant stay....Hey Angel!  Get out of that bathroom now!
josh		I don't want to stay here by myself.
billy		I can't help it Josh.  I've gotta be home by ten.  Look, I'll cut classes tomorrow and we'll find that Zoltar thing before you know it, okay?  It's just one night.  All right?
josh		All right.
billy		Good.
josh		What if I can't sleep?
billy		It's probably better if you don't.  See you in the morning.
josh		Well, you mean like what time?
josh		Mom...Mom....
josh		I told you, it's not a video game.
billy		Well, what is it?
josh		Well, it's not a video game.
billy		This one's got a number on it.  Does yours?
josh		No.  Oh wait, here's one.
man		Hey, what are doing?  What are doing?
josh		Do you have Zoltar?
man		No.  I told you, I looked back in the back.  I've got Powerhouse, I've got ...
josh		We really need Zoltar.
man		Well, I haven't got it.
billy		This is it.
josh		They aren't going to have it.
billy		They'll have it.
man		Can I help you?
josh		Yes.  We would like a list of all carnivals and fairs.
billy		And arcades.
josh		Yeah.
josh		Thank you.
billy		See.
woman		One month to process.  You get in six weeks.
josh		Six weeks?
woman		Sometimes longer, but, you could get lucky....Next please!
josh		I'm gonna be thirty years old for the rest of my life.
billy		Would you come on.  We'll figure something out.  By the way, you may be older than that!
josh		So now what?
billy		I'll come and see you everyday after school.
josh		How?
billy		I'll tell them I made the basketball team.
josh		I won't have anything to do.
billy		You can get a job.
josh		I can't get a job.
billy		Why?  It can't be any different than school.  What are you good at?
josh		I don't know.  Making spit balls?
billy		How about a delivery man?
josh		I don't know how drive. BILLY Oh yeah, right...Cardiological technician, civil engineer...
josh		You gonna eat your cherry?
billy		Go ahead....Clerical transcriber...
josh		Billy?
billy		Yeah....Gross.  God, that's gross!
josh		Hey, go on to the next column.
billy		Collection agent, company clerk, computer operator, construction engineer...
josh		Computer operator?  Computer operator, read that one.
billy		Josh, would you quit with your stupid computers!
josh		Just read it!
billy		Macmillan Toys...toys!
josh		Toys!
woman		Macmillan Toys, may I help you?
billy		Okay, what's next?  There.
josh		Previous employment.
billy		Your paper route.
josh		I can't put that.
billy		Paper route circulation?
josh		Yeah!
billy		What's he got?  Hey, don't worry about it.
josh		Social Security number?
josh		What is that?
billy		My locker combination.
josh		Great!
woman		Mr. Baskin.  Mr. Baskin?
josh		Yes.  Yes.
woman		The Personnel Director will see you now....Uh, you son can wait out here.
josh		Yeah, okay.  Son, you should sit down and don't give the lady any trouble now.
billy		Sure Dad!  ...Don't forget--look him in the eye!
man		Couple of numbers missing on your Social Security.
josh		Oh, uh twelve.
man		One two.  Says here you've got four years experience.
josh		Yes.
man		All on computers?
josh		Yes.
man		Where did you go to school?
josh		It was called George Washington.
man		Oh, G.W.  My brother-in-law got his doctorate there.  Did you pledge?
josh		Yes.  Every morning.
susan		It happened again!  David, the girl is absolutely useless!  You've got to get me someone who knows what she is doing!  Excuse me.  I'm not getting any of my mail, nothing has been filed!  Ever since she got engaged, my life has been a disaster!
man		You know, she came so highly recommended.
susan		She spent the last three months writing down her married name.  Mrs. Judy Hicks.  Mrs. Donald Hicks.  Mrs. Judy Mitchleson Hicks.  Sometimes with a hyphen, sometimes without a hyphen.  Sometimes she spells the hyphen!
man		Well, I really don't know where I can put her.
susan		Put her on unemployment!
man		When can you start?
josh		Soon.
man		I thought we'd start you out with preschoolers.  Should take you a few days.  Give you a chance to find your way around.  Do you smoke?
josh		Well, uh, just once, but...
man		Only on breaks in the coffee room....Most of that is pretty straight forward stuff.  If you have any questions, come to me.  Good luck.
josh		Bye!
scott		Psst!  Psst!  Hey!  Hey!  I'm Scott Brennan.
josh		Uh, I'm Josh Baskin.
scott		Listen, what are you trying to do?  Get us all fired?
josh		Huh?
scott		You've gotta slow down.  Pace yourself.  Slowly!  Slowly!
josh		Sorry.  Today's my first day.
scott		I know!
josh		So how long have you worked here?
scott		Five years.  Work stinks but the fringe benefits are great!  See that girl over there in the red?  Say hi to her and she'll be yours.  She'll wrap her legs around you so tight you'll be begging for mercy!
josh		Well, I'll stay away from her then!
scott		Excuse me.  Yeah Brennan.  I gave it to you yesterday!  Oh, here it is. I don't have time to xerox it.  Let the new guy do it.
paul		Look sir, the favorability rate is...
susan		But every bit of research and focus testing...
josh		Sorry!  I'm sorry!
paul		Why don't you watch where the hell you're going!
susan		Are you okay!
paul		You could kill somebody running around here like that!
paul		I don't know sir, maybe you should see a doctor.
paul		Sorry sir!  Sorry! MR. M Where were you going anyway, son?
paul		What does he mean?  I hustle!  Uh sir!  Sir!
mom		Hello?  ...Hello?
josh		Hello.  Mrs. Baskin?
mom		Yes.
josh		How are you?
mom		Who is this?
josh		I just wanted you to know that Josh is all right.  He's okay.
mom		You have my boy?
josh		Yeah.  And you're gonna get him back, just the way he was.
mom		Look, I swear to God--If you do anything to him, if you touch one hair on his head, I will spend the rest of my life making sure you suffer!
josh		Wow!  Thanks!
mom		Let me talk to Josh!
josh		Oh, he can't come to the phone right now.
mom		Why not?  Why not?  What did you do to him?!
josh		I didn't do anything to him!  I think he's a terrific kid!
mom		I want proof that he's all right!
josh		Uh, well, all right.  Ask me something that only he would know.  Then I'll ask him for you and that way you'll know that he's okay.
mom		Ask him what I used to sing to him when he was a little boy.
josh		Isn't there something else that you would rather ask him?
mom		Ask him!
josh		Oh, I got it!  I got it!  Memories, like the corner of my mind.  Misty water color memories, of the way we were.  Scattered pictures...Look, you're gonna see him again really soon.  I promise.  I cross my heart. We'll talk about this later.
man		Harris!  Brennan!  Baskin! JOSH What is this?
scott		Pay day.
scott		Yeah.  They really screw you, don't they?
josh		Hi.
woman		Hi.  Okay, so how would you like that?
josh		Three dimes, a hundred dollar bill, and eighty seven ones.
woman		One, two, three...
josh		I'm never eating again.
billy		It wasn't that bad.
josh		It was the boat ride that did it.
billy		No, it was the pork rinds.
josh		Pork rinds!  Aghh!  We sure had fun, didn't we?
billy		Yeah, we sure did.
boy		Got you!
josh		What's your name?
boy		Jordan, what's yours?
josh		Mine's Josh.
boy		I'm gonna blow you away Josh!
josh		But I just got you!
boy		No way!  Get back here!
josh		Yes.
josh		No.  I was just looking around.
josh		What's a marketing report?
josh		The Championship Hockey?  Oh, I love it.  Only the...
josh		Well, the pieces don't move.
josh		Well, on the old set you could slide the men up and down the ice, and now all they do is spin around.  It was more like real hockey the old way.  Why did they change it?
josh		You see, the Star Fighters are good because you can change all the pieces.  But I never liked the Galactakons.  You only get one robot, and they don't come with a vehicle.
josh		Plus you can't take them underwater.  And if you do they...Neat!
josh		Three years.
josh		Oh, I'm in computers.
susan		Vice President in charge of Product Development.
paul		Vice President!  He's only been here a week!  Vice President?!
susan		And he came from data processing!
paul		He's out of his mind!  The old man has finally lost it!
susan		Did you know they gave him Bob's old office?
paul		Bob's office?!  Bob's office is bigger than my office!  There's got to be a reason.  Things like this don't happen unless there's a reason.
billy		That means if the president dies you get to take over?
josh		No. No.  They got a hundred of them.  Are we ready?
woman		Yes Mr. Baskin.
josh		Come on in.
billy		Look at this place!  It's bigger than the principal's office!
josh		How would you know?
billy		Remember that explosion in science?
josh		Oh yes!
josh		You know that only costs 10 bucks to make.
billy		Get out of here! ...What is this?
josh		Oh, well, this is just...They just put this in here...it doesn't mean anything.
billy		So what do they make you do for all this?
josh		Well, I play with all of this stuff and then, I go in there and tell them what I think.
billy		That's it?
josh		Yeah.
billy		And they pay you for that?
josh		Yeah.
billy		Suckers!
josh		Oh, thank you Miss Patterson.  Hey!  Miss Patterson.  Could you call down to Media and have them send up a video tape of the Giants Broncos Super Bowl?  And have them edit out all the commercials and talkin' and stuff?
woman		Yes Mr. Baskin.
josh		Miss Patterson.
billy		You're the luckiest guy I know.
paul		Did you check Mattel?
susan		Nothing.
paul		Colleco?
susan		Zero.
paul		He can't come from nowhere Susan.  He has to come from somewhere.  How about Hasbro?
susan		Yes.  And Fisher Price and Worlds of Wonder.  I have called everywhere. Nobody's ever heard of him!
paul		Great!
susan		Face it Paul.  The guy comes from data processing.
paul		Terrific.  That is just terrific!  This is just terrific!
susan		You're being paranoid Paul.
paul		These tests were conducted over a six month period using a double-blind format of eight over-lapping demographic groups.  Every region of the country was sampled, the focus testing showed a solid base in the 9 to 11-year old bracket--with a possible carry-over into the 12-year olds. When you consider that Nobots and Transformers pull over 37 percent market share, and that we are targeting the same area, I think that we should see one quarter of that and that is one fifth of the total revenue from all of last year.  Any questions?  Yes?  Yes?
josh		I don't get it.
paul		What exactly don't you get?
josh		It turns from a building into a robot, right?
paul		Precisely.
josh		Well, what's fun about that?
paul		Well, if you had read your industry breakdown, you would see that our success in the action figure area has climbed from 27 percent to 45 percent in the last two years.  There, that might help.
josh		Oh.
paul		Yes?
josh		I still don't get it.
paul		What?!
josh		Well, there's a million robots that turn into something.  And this is a building that turns into a robot.  So what's so fun about playing with a building?  That's not any fun!
paul		This is a skyscraper.
josh		Well, couldn't it be like a robot that turns into something like a bug or something?
paul		A bug? JOSH Yeah!  Like a big prehistoric insect with maybe like giant claws that could pick up a car and crush it like that!
man		A prehistoric transformer?
paul		Gentlemen!
man		So the robot turns into a bug.
paul		Ah, gentlemen, listen...
man		Listen to him.  He's got a very good idea here.  The robot turns into a bug.
man		This is a great idea!
josh		Different sizes and things.  And...you could have them wreck something...
man		A lady bug.  Transformers for girls!
paul		This doesn't just happen.  This doesn't happen.  You don't just come to a meeting and say "bugs."
susan		I, uh....
paul		Ho! Ho! Ho!  He is vicious!
susan		He's not vicious.
paul		Oh, come on Susan, don't kid yourself.  That man is a killer!
susan		All he said was "I don't get it."
paul		I don't get it!  I don't get!  I don't get!  He's going for the throat, trying to eviscerate me!  Did you see the look on Macmillan's face?!
susan		Mmm Hmm.
realtor		It's quite a unique space.  The lines are so clean and you don't get any of that partition quality.  It has 50-foot ceilings, all hardwood floors, ample closet space, a modern kitchen, a brand new bathroom with a jet stream jacuzzi.
billy		We'll take it.
man		Baskin.  Rental delivery!
josh		Dear Mom and Dad.  They said that I could write you and let you know I was okay.  So far, they're treating me fine.  I've got enough to eat and I'm perfectly safe.  They say that I'll get out of here in about a month.  In the mean time, it's a lot like camp!  I watch TV and even get outside once in a while.  I know you miss me.  But try not to worry.  I think this experience might even be good for me.  I love you very much and I know that I'll see you soon.  Your son, Joshua.  P.S. Give Rachel a kiss from her big brother.
woman		It's very beautiful and I'm having a lovely time.
woman		It's much better than last year.  I just wanted to tell you that.
susan		Love your tux.
susan		Have you decided what you're doing on the Danberry line?
susan		Well, uh, I think if you got everyone's input up front, I mean right from the beginning....
susan		What?
man		Bet he gets another raise.
josh		I rented it.  This is a real bow tie though.  I tied it myself.  And that's why I was late.
josh		Hey, there's Miss Patterson!  Hi!  There's the guy from the meeting! Hi!
paul		The guy's a damn knock-off artist.
man		What do you mean?
paul		The Amphibian?  He takes 10,000 G. I. Joes, slaps some gills on them, webs their feet, and packages them in seaweed....So I show him the schedule and he says, "It's not correct accounting procedure!"  Give me a goddamn break!
man		But the toy sold Paul.
susan		Excuse me.
susan		Hi.
josh		Hi.
susan		All the same people having all the same discussion.  It's like they cloned some party in 1983 and kept spinning it out again and again and again.  I loved your ideas on the Squeezy Doll line.
josh		Thanks.
susan		They were so, incisive.  It's Beluga.  Macmillan orders it every year....You all right?  You okay?  You want a glass of water?  You want something to drink?
josh		Could I have a milkshake or something?
susan		I've got a car outside.  You want to get out of here?
josh		Uh Huh.
susan		Let's go.
susan		I'm not really a big one for parties.  You know, I like things that are a little more intimate.
josh		Wow!  Is this your car?
susan		Well, it's the company's car.
josh		Oh, this is the coolest thing I've ever seen!
susan		I mean, just seeing someone in the office, you don't really get a chance to know them.  I mean, just being with you here tonight, I really get a sense of who you are.
josh		Are you gonna eat these fries?
susan		No. No....
josh		Hey mister?  You want some of these fries?  We're not going to eat them.
driver		No, thank you.
susan		You see, it's hard in a business situation...I mean there's this invisible line and even you're attracted to someone...What, are you going to call someone before...?
josh		No.
susan		Uh, I mean at this point in my life I...Don't...Don't play with the radio...Leave the uh...Don't...I'm really vulnerable right now!  You know...I mean, I love my job and I....
josh		Ejector seat!  This is great!  Hey!  Come on up!  Hey, that was my apartment.
susan		Really?  I'd love to see where you live.
susan		So have you always lived alone?
josh		No, not always.
susan		Ah.  Is it just recently or...?
josh		Yeah.
susan		Give yourself a couple of days, it'll pass.
josh		Well, they said it was gonna take six weeks.
susan		Well, it can be painful but, that's what they invented Xanax for, right?
josh		Watch your step.
susan		I'm not sure we should do this yet.
josh		Do what?
susan		Well, I mean I like you and I want to spend the night with you....
josh		Do you mean sleep over?
susan		Well,...yeah!
josh		Okay!  But I get to be on top!
susan		You live here?
josh		Yeah.  It's nice, isn't it?
susan		Yeah.
josh		You uh, want a soda?
susan		Huh?
josh		Soda?  You want one?
susan		Yeah, sure.
josh		They rigged this up so you don't need any quarters....Don't!  Don't...!
susan		What?
josh		The glue's not dry.  Sorry.
susan		Sorry.
josh		It's okay....You wanna play pinball?
susan		No.
josh		You don't need quarters for this either.  It's free.
susan		No, thank you.
josh		Okay.
susan		Is that a trampoline?
josh		Yeah.  You wanna try it?
susan		No.
josh		You should.  It's really fun.  It's simple, too.  Come on!  Come on! You'll like it and it's really easy to do.
susan		No, I don't think...
josh		I'm serious...
susan		Do have some wine?
josh		Take off your shoes...It's really easy....Let me get rid of these balls.
susan		No, I'm...I'm...I'll watch.
josh		Come on.  It's fun.  I'll do it with you.  Up you go.  Excellent.
susan		Help me up?
josh		Sure.
susan		Okay.
josh		Okay.  Jump.
susan		You want me to jump?
josh		Yes.
susan		There.  Now can we have a drink?
josh		No!  No!  No!  I mean really jump.  Now get some air between you and the trampoline.
susan		There.
josh		Oh, come on!  I'll do it with you!  All right?  I'll show you how to do it.  You ready?  Come on.  Jump.  See?  There it is.  That's all there is to it.  There you go.  There you go.  Yeah!  It's easy!  Anybody could do this!
josh		Here.  Pick one....It's for you.  It's a glow in the dark compass ring...so you won't get lost....Goodnight.
paul		Did you have fun last night?
susan		Sure.  Yeah.
paul		Yeah...You left pretty quick.
susan		I gave him a ride home Paul.
paul		Oh, did he enjoy it?
susan		Don't be ridiculous.
paul		Ah, that's me, Mr. Ridiculous.  Just a silly old guy.
susan		I don't feel like going out tonight.
paul		What do you mean?  They're your friends....Come on!  Leave it!  Leave it!  Would you quit it!  Do you have to play with everything?
paul		Baskin?  Baskin!
josh		Wouldn't you rather play basketball?  I know how to play that.  We could be like a team for the Macmillan Company.
paul		No.
josh		I'm not very good at sports, but I'll give it a try.  My best sport is video hockey.
paul		That isn't a sport.
josh		Well, it takes eye to hand coordination.
paul		It's not a sport if you don't sweat!
josh		What about golf?  You don't sweat and that's a sport.
paul		Yeah, and you're not sittin' there letting some machine do all the work!
josh		What about car racing?
paul		Aw shut up Baskin!
josh		What are the rules again?
paul		I told you.  Over the line to serve.  Yellow is out of bounds.  Play to 21--ready?
josh		Sorry.  Sorry.
paul		One nothing.  Come on!  Get it!  Get it!  Get it!
josh		Okay.
paul		Thatta boy!  Okay, you ready?  All right....Ho ho!  Nice try!  That was in!  Two zip.  Just made it.  Two zip.  Ready?  Okay!  Here we
josh		Uh, that was under the line.
paul		What?
josh		That was under the line.  You said it had to be over the line on a serve.
paul		No I didn't.
josh		Yeah you did!  You said it had to be over the line on a serve!
paul		No I did not, now give me the goddamn ball!
josh		Well that's cheating!
paul		Give me the goddamn ball, will ya!
josh		No!
paul		Give me the ball you little shit!
josh		It's my serve.
paul		Give me the ball!  Give me the goddamn ball!  I never said that!
josh		Yes you did.
paul		Give me the...Give me the ball!  Give me the ball!
josh		Cheater!  You cheat!
paul		I did not cheat!
josh		You cheat!  You cheat!
paul		Give me the ball!  Give me the ball!  Give me it!  Give me the ball!
josh		He didn't have to punch me.
susan		I know.  He's scared of you.  You don't play his game.
josh		I tried to play his game.  He beat me up.  If he's scared of me then why did he punch me?
susan		He punched you because he's scared of you.
josh		I don't get it.
susan		It's just the way he is.  Everything is a fight with him.  Everyone's an enemy.  It's not just a job for him, it's a war.
josh		Well how come you're so nice?
susan		What?
josh		Well, you work just as hard as he does and you're not like that.
susan		You don't...you don't know me that well.
josh		Yes I do.  You're one of the nicest people I've met.
susan		How do you do it?
paul		What's this?
susan		What does it look like?!  Shampoo, razor, toothpaste, two neckties and your exercise tape!  Oh, and I want my keys back!
paul		Sure.  It's just some scratches.  He'll get over it.
susan		Oh, it has nothing to do with him.
paul		Oh come on Susan!  He's just another link in the chain!  First it was Tom Caulfield, then Handlen.  Then Golding, then me!  Am I missing somebody?
susan		It's not like that anymore!
paul		What is so special about Baskin?
susan		He's a grown up!
paul		Susan.
susan		I can't believe you brought up Golding.
billy		And many more!  What are you going to wish for this time?
billy		I know what we can do!  We can go out and get some beers, some dirty magazines and go back...
josh		Uh, I can't Billy.
billy		What you mean you can't?  Of course you can!  It's your birthday!
josh		No, I can't...I have to go somewhere.
billy		Where?
josh		Um...well, I have to go meet somebody and...
billy		So, you got all night!
josh		Yeah I know, but it's just...well I can't right now okay, but I'll call you, all right?  Okay?  I'll give you a call.  Thanks again Billy, it was fun!
susan		Hi....Do you want to come in?
josh		Sure.
susan		Sit down....Want to go?
josh		Yeah!  Yeah!
josh		Want to go again?!
josh		So they have these cars that you can actually drive them except they're on this rail so you can't get off the road...You have a really big gob of mustard right, right...
susan		What?
josh		Mustard right....
susan		Where?
josh		Right there.
susan		Is it gone?
josh		Well,....
susan		Is that...gone?
josh		Yeah.
susan		Listen.
josh		What?  Music?
susan		Wanna dance?
josh		Dance?
susan		Well we don't have to if you don't want to.
josh		Okay.  Okay.
susan		All right. JOSH Okay....Are you cold?
susan		Mm Mm.
josh		We could get some hot chocolate....You can wear my jacket if you want.
susan		Oh, I haven't done this in a long time....What were you like when you were younger?
josh		Oh, I wasn't much different.
susan		I believe that about you....I've been thinking about you a lot....It's crazy....In my car, lying in bed....I've just never gone out with someone like you....With all the other men there was so much to hide....I feel like I can tell you anything.
josh		Susan?  There's something I think I should tell you.
susan		What?
susan		You want the light on?
josh		Hey Frank, how are you?  Good morning everybody!
woman		Good morning Sir.
josh		I'd like some coffee please Miss Patterson.
woman		But you don't drink coffee.
josh		And uh, make it black.
woman		You know, you two should come to Vermont.  It is so pretty up there.
man		Did anyone happen to see that great documentary about Columbus on PBS the other night?
woman		Uh, no.  Was it good?
man		I had no idea he had a fourth ship.
josh		Yeah, the Santa Christina.
man		That's right.
josh		He only had that on his second trip, though.
man		You saw it, too.
josh		No, but I used to study...stuff.
man		Really?
boy		Dad, I need some help.
man		All right, but not now Adam.
boy		Yeah, but Dad you said...
man		Adam we have guests.
woman		He's had the roughest time with algebra.  We've tried tutors, everything.
josh		Algebra?  I used to study that, too.
josh		All right, let's say Larry Bird is going to score 10 points in the first quarter.
boy		Okay?
josh		How many is he going to score in the whole game?
boy		That's easy, that's 40 points.
josh		Probably.  Okay.  And that's algebra.
boy		Right!  It is?
josh		Yeah!  See.  Okay.  One quarter is to ten points that he scores in that quarter.  Just as four....
woman		You're right.  He's wonderful!
susan		I know.
billy		Department of Consumer Affairs?  Yeah Buddy it came!
man		He's never done this before.
man		Kind of like a sweepstakes.
paul		Get the Art Department on the phone.  Get them!
susan		Send out for some sandwiches.
susan		You can do it.  I know you can!
josh		I cannot plan a whole line!
susan		Why?  Nobody knows more about toys in the entire company! JOSH Susan, doing that means marketing and strategy and stuff like that!
susan		All he wants is a proposal!
josh		I can't!
susan		Look, you come up with the ideas and I'll handle the marketing.
josh		But it's....
susan		Come on.  It'll be neat.
josh		All right...I don't know...I don't have any new ideas for toys or anything.
susan		You've got great ideas!
billy		Yeah, well tell him I called again.  Kopecky!  K-O-P...Yeah right...well tell him it's important!
josh		You see it won't be like these where you just follow the story along. You would actually make a whole different story appear just by pressing these buttons.
susan		An electronic comic book?  That's amazing!
josh		Yeah.  An electric comic book.  It's gonna be different every time.
susan		This is incredible.  You're brilliant--you know that?
josh		If you like one you could see it, you know, over and over and over again.
susan		You're wonderful.
josh		You really like it?...You think Mac will like it?  You know, what we could do...We could do like sports comics...or like if you're going to steal second or something like that...You'd have sports books...baseball, football...really, it work with almost any sport there is.  Hockey!
susan		What...What is it we're doing?  ...What's going on here?
josh		You know, we're....Is something wrong?  You don't like it?
susan		No!  No!  It's...I mean if it's an affair, that's one thing.  But if it's something else...I mean, not that we have to know right now, we don't...but if we think that it could turn into something else...well....How do you feel about all of this?
josh		How do I feel about what?
susan		How do you feel about me?
josh		What is that supposed to mean?
josh		Well, Wednesday would be better than Thursday...
woman		Mr. Baskin can't be disturbed!
josh		Yeah, I have the Keating example right here...
billy		Where've you been?  I've been trying to reach you forever!
josh		Shh!  I'm right in the middle of something okay?
billy		That's the list.  All you've got to do is call!
josh		Can you give me just a minute, please?
billy		What are you talking about?  This is the list!
josh		Would you come back at lunch?  All right, I'm a little bit busy right now...Hello?
billy		Busy?!
josh		Billy!
billy		Are you out of your mind?!
josh		Jesus, Billy!  Miss Patterson, could you get them on the phone again....
billy		This is the list we've been waiting for!
josh		I've got work to do!  Can't you understand that?  I've got a deadline to meet.  God!
billy		Who the fuck do you think you are?!
josh		Hey!
billy		Hey, you're Josh Baskin!  Remember?  You broke your arm on my roof! You hid in my basement when Robert Diceman was about to rip your head off!
josh		You don't get it, do you?  This is important!
billy		I'm your best friend.  What's more important than that, huh?  I'm three months older than you are--asshole!
josh		You are standing in the cavern of the evil wizard.  All around you are the carcasses of slain ice dwarfs....Melt wizard....What do you want to melt him with?  ...Throw thermal pod.
susan		Josh, what's wrong?  What is it?
josh		I haven't told you something because if I did, I didn't think you'd believe me.  And even if you did believe me, I didn't think you were going to like me anymore, so....
susan		Oh, Honey, come here.  You can tell me anything.  What?
josh		Susan, I'm not what you think I am. SUSAN What do you mean?
josh		Before I met you I was in little league.  I was in little league and I rode my bike to school and I played with my friends and hung out with them and....
susan		Josh.  Josh.  What are you talking about?
josh		I want to go home.  I miss my family Susan and I want to go home.
susan		Oh my God!  You're married!
josh		No!  No!
susan		I knew that this was too good to be true!  I knew that there had to be something!
josh		No.  No.  Susan, I'm not married.
susan		You're not?
josh		No.  I'm a child!
susan		What?
josh		I'm a child Susan, and I'm not ready for all this.
susan		Oh that's fine.  That is just great!
josh		Well, you see what happened....
susan		No.  I understand.  I'm not ready to make a commitment!
josh		No!  No!  No!
susan		I'm not ready to accept responsibility!
josh		No!  You don't understand!  I mean, I'm thirteen years old!
susan		Oh!  And who isn't?  You think that there isn't a frightened kid inside of me, too!
josh		No!  I mean I really am thirteen!  I went to bed one night and I was a kid, and when I woke up the next morning I was a grown up.
susan		Oh right!  And just yesterday I was a school girl with pigtails!  Why are you doing this Josh?
josh		There was this carnival in New Jersey.  I made a wish on this machine. It was called a Zoltar Machine...
susan		Oh stop it!
josh		It was called a Zoltar Machine!  It had this bobbing head that looked just like a devil and if you got a quarter in the devil's mouth you could make a wish and I did!  So I made a wish to be big!  That is what I'm trying to tell you!  I changed into a grown up but I'm really just a kid!
susan		Fine Josh!  You're a kid!  Look, I really don't know what it is that you're trying to tell me.  But we have a very big presentation to give tomorrow, so I'm going to get some sleep.
billy		Josh?  Josh!  Oh, hi Mrs. Baskin.
mom		Hi.  I was just looking around and...Your hair is getting longer.
billy		I got it cut yesterday.
mom		He had a birthday.
billy		Yeah, I know.  He'll be coming back real soon.  Everything is going to be okay.
mom		Thanks.
billy		Goodnight.
billy		Right there.  Sea Point Park, New York!  Well?
josh		Yes?
woman		They're waiting for you Mr. Baskin.
josh		Thanks.
billy		See you around.
josh		There's this flat screen inside with pictures on it and you read it. And when you get down to the bottom you have to make a choice of what the character's going to do...Like if he going to go in and fight the dragon then you have to push one of the buttons.
paul		Excuse me.
josh		Paul.
paul		I don't get it.
josh		Well, it's a comic book that....
susan		See, there's a computer chip inside which stores the choices, so when you reach the end of the page, you decide where the story goes.  That's the point.
susan		A kid makes his own decision.
susan		Yeah.  In fact, it's a very simple program.  Isn't that right? MAN So what happens when you run out of choices?
susan		Well, that's the great thing.  You can just sell different adventures. Just pop in a new disk and you get a whole new set of options.
man		We could market this on a comic book rack.
josh		I'll be right back.
susan		Well, our initial figure is around...around $7.00, with a retail cost
susan		I think a kid....Would you excuse me?
susan		Josh!  Josh!
josh		Will you take me to Sea Point Park, New York?
billy		Sea Point Park?  Josh!....Josh!  Josh!...Yes!
susan		Excuse me.  You know him?  You know Josh?
billy		Yeah.
susan		Look, you have to tell me where he went.
billy		Who are you?
susan		I'm his girlfriend.
billy		Billy Kopecky.
susan		Look, you have to tell me where he went.  Where did he go?  Please, tell me.  Tell me!
josh		Work!  Damn it!....I wish I was a kid.
susan		Josh!
josh		Susan!
susan		You know, you don't walk out on somebody!  You don't just get up and leave and walk out like that!  You don't do that!
josh		I know.  I know.  I'm really sorry.  I'm really sorry but I didn't know what to do.  I didn't know what to say.
susan		Oh God.  You got your wish.
josh		I tried to tell you.
susan		I didn't listen, I guess.  I didn't hear you...
josh		I tried to tell you last night.
susan		...or want to...or how would I have...or even if I did listen, why would I know?  Why would I know that?!
josh		I've been thinking about this and there are a million reasons for me to go home but there is only one reason for me to stay.
susan		What?  What reason is that?
josh		Well, you...Oh, come on.  Don't cry.
susan		So, what are you?  15?  16?
susan		Well, that explains it.
josh		Maybe you could come with me.
susan		No.  No.
josh		Why not?
susan		I've been there before.  It's hard enough the first time.  You know what I mean?  You don't know what I mean....Come on, I'll drive you home.
josh		I'm sorry.
susan		No, I'll be okay.  You'll be fine.  In ten years, who knows?  Maybe you should hold on to my number.
susan		So this is where you live.  Which one is it?
josh		The one right there.
susan		Oh.  It's nice.  I'm gonna miss you.
josh		I'm gonna miss you, too.
susan		You won't even remember me.
josh		Oh yes I will.
josh		Mom?  Hello! MOM Josh?  Josh!  Josh!  Oh my God!  Oh, thank God you're home!
josh		Oh Ma, I missed you all so much!
josh		I'm just not good enough.
billy		What are you talking about?  You've been hitting the ball over the fence almost every time in stick ball.  You just got to get used to a fatter bat.
josh		You really think I could do it?
billy		Yeah!
josh		Come on.  We'll hit some after supper.
billy		Okay.  I'll call you. 1
****Dialogues from script :Big_Blue.txt****

underwater		 JACQUES touches bottom.  Clamps his legs around a rock to hold himself down.  Unhurried, thoroughly at home, 40 feet under... he opens the plastic bag.  A huge speckled moray eel appears in a hole in the rock, slithers toward him. The carnivore's jaws are bigger than the boy's head.  The boy smiles at him.  Pulls a piece of raw meat out of his bag and holds it out.  The eel takes the morsel delicately -- and slithers back into his hole.  Gravely, JACQUES takes another morsel out of the bag.
the boys		Jacques!  Come quick!
boys		Look!  Right there!  It's shining!
jacques		 A coin.
first boy		I found it.
second boy		Liar!
jacques		Ok.  I'll get it, but no fighting, all right?
jacques		We'll split it.
first boy		You can't split a coin.  That's stupid.
second boy		He's right.  You're stupid.
jacques		Then we'll buy something and split that.
second boy		A helicopter...
jacques		It's a small coin.
first boy		A Ferrari.
second boy		I don't want a Ferrari... What is it?
jacques		 Maybe a little radio.
jacques		Well.  We'll decide later.  The light is going.
second boy		I get the radio from after school, until midnight.
first boy		Since when do you stay up until midnight?
jacques		All right, all right... Can I concentrate?  And you can stop pointing.  I've seen it.
first boy		 Shit, it's the Italian!
enzo		Well, if it isn't the little Frenchman!  How is the little Frenchman?
jacques		 Fine!
enzo		You don't mind if I go instead, do you?
jacques		 No...
enzo		If you did mind, you'd tell me, wouldn't you?
enzo		 Roberto, mio palmo!
enzo		 Count!
enzo		 Who's is it now?  You saw it but I dove for it!
enzo		 Roberto?  How long?
roberto		Six seconds.
enzo		I'll throw it back into the water. You dive and if you do less than six, it's yours.
enzo		Brava!
boy		 Enzo?  I saw the coin first... We split?
enzo		 You can't split a coin, stupid.
priest		Jacques... Come, look.
priest		Is it a coin shining down there?
jacques		 It is.  It's a coin!  I'll get it for you, Father!
priest		It'll be for the poor.
jacques		Padre?
father		 ... Come on, time to get up, Jacques!
father		 Louis, wake up!
father		Jacques, come help me.
jacques		You shouldn't dive everyday, Papa.
uncle louis		Then you shouldn't eat everyday, Jacques.
father		 Don't worry.  When I'm tired down there, the mermaids help me out.
uncle louis		 Hey!  Have you ever seen a mermaid?
jacques		No.
uncle louis		I've seen them.
uncle louis		Don't you want to know where?
uncle louis		Why don't you ask me?
jacques		What?
uncle louis		Where I saw the mermaids?!  Why don't you ever ask any question? I'm always the one asking the question!  We're sitting here like two stones and I'm taking to myself. Ask me something, Goddamnit!
jacques		 Why did my mother leave?
uncle louis		 Come on now, pump!
uncle louis		Your mother didn't leave.  She went back to America, that's all.  It's her home.  She's allergic to this Island.  She likes refrigerators and machines that clean the floor... so one day she left.  Woman are like that, unpredictable, like the sea.
jacques		 So where did you see mermaids?
uncle louis		In the bars in Athens!
enzo		 Jacques!  Jacques!
supervisor		 Signore Molinari?
roberto		 Yes.
enzo		 How did it happen?
supervisor		 The company asked me to extract everything I could from the wreck; so the divers were trying to get at the engine... and then the boat turned over... in the current... and... look, I fucked up!  Can you help?
enzo		How many are, down there?
supervisor		Just one... We're feeding him air, but he's not breathing regularly... You've got to get him out fast.
enzo		 Ten thousand.
supervisor		Lira?
enzo		Dollars.
supervisor		You're going to hold me up at a time like this?
roberto		You do understand you're talking to the champion diver of the world?
supervisor		Yes, but ten thousand dollars...
enzo		Okay.  You tell me.  How much would you say the man's life is worth?
enzo		In my village, we have a saying: when the wind blows, the flags of all nations flap in the same direction.
supervisor		 What does that mean?
roberto		That you should get your checkbook. Damn quick.
roberto		Since we have a little time, what do you say you write that check?
roberto		 Sign here.
supervisor		 Thanks, thanks a lot.  I mean that too... You extortionist bastard!
enzo		Dollars, Roberto!  We took him for ten thousand dollars!
roberto		 Enzo, what are you going to do with the money?
enzo		Have the car painted.
roberto		Santini will do that for 25 dollars!
enzo		Then tell him to wax it too.
roberto		Enzo, really.  What are you going to get?
enzo		 A rosary for Mama, a dress for Angelica, something with rhine- stones for what's her name, and get yourself a suit that fits... But most important...
roberto		Yes?
enzo		Find the Frenchman.  Find me Mayol.
johana		 ... Huacracocha?
johana		Gracias.
old man		You welcome.
frank		 Welcome to Peru!
johana		Don't you have a heater?
frank		 Yeah... Sure... Is this your first trip to Peru?
johana		Does anybody live to make a second?
johana		 Forget about the heater!
frank		A drink to warm up?
johana		Yes, thank you.  Intravenous if possible.
frank		 Tea... or whiskey?
johana		... both.  Did I just see a man in a red suit and goggles?
frank		... right.  Dr. Lawrence?  The insurance man... uh... The insurance person is here!
lawrence		It's about time!
johana		Would it be out of place to ask what he's doing?
frank		Who?
johana		The guy in the Halloween suit!
lawrence		Did you have a nice trip?  We were getting restless, it's been three weeks since the accident.
lawrence		 You should get things moving, you know.  We're out of equipment and we can't do half of our experiments...! Frank, check the program!
johana		Who... Who is that?
lawrence		Mayol... Jacques Mayol.
johana		That's the experiment?  Dumping a guy into a frozen lake?
lawrence		... The truck fell into a very deep crevasse.  We weren't able to save the equipment.
johana		I'll have to talk to the driver.
lawrence		In the spring when he melts!
johana		 You really send him under the ice? He isn't a slave or a convict or anything?
lawrence		My dear, science is a cruel mistress.
johana		But... how is he going to breathe?
lawrence		He isn't going to breathe.
lawrence		Listen...
lawrence		That's his heartbeat.  Can you hear the speed at which it's slowing down, it's incredible.
lawrence		He's in the fluoroscope now.  Listen to his heart.  Impressive, huh?  The flow of blood is concentrated in the brain and doesn't even feed the limbs anymore.  It's a phenomena that has only been observed with dolphins... until now.
johana		How long can he stay down?  Without breathing?
lawrence		It depends.  He should come up soon.  Unless he's decided to stay for the night.
johana		Why is he doing this?
lawrence		For one thing, it's his job... as for the rest of it, I wish I knew.
johana		Shouldn't somebody take him a blanket or something?
lawrence		 Coffee might be nice.
johana		 Will he understand Spanish?
lawrence		His mother's an American.  He spent half of his life in the states.  I'd try English if I were you.
jacques		 I recognize you.
johana		We saw each other a little while ago.
jacques		 In the lake?
johana		 No... in the hut.
jacques		 Then it was somebody that looked a lot like you... Thank you.
driver		It's beautiful, isn't it?
driver		We had some bad wind this week.  The "Mistral"!!  "Peuchere"!  There isn't one olive left on its tree. It suddenly left us this morning... I sure won't be the one to call it back.
jacques		 I'll only be five minutes.
jacques		Good morning, everybody!  Did you sleep well?  I slept in a plane, and it wasn't too great.
jacques		 Hey!  presents.
jacques		You think I'd forget you?
jacques		For Bathsheba.
jacques		It's a Llama.  You understand?  From Peru.  It's fighting.
jacques		That's for you, Darjeeling.  We wouldn't want you to catch cold!
jacques		And now...  "Ta, da..." For you Tina.
jacques		Something you've never seen either.
jacques		Snow!
jacques		 I missed you little rascals.  Did you get my post card?
jacques		 Oh?  Is that what you want? Alright, but five minutes, no more. I have a taxi waiting.
johana		... Sally?
sally		You're back!  Hello.  We were burgled.
johana		Again?
sally		They got the new T.V.
sally		... And the new stereo.
johana		I hope they remembered to take the microwave this time?
sally		Yep.  How was your trip...?  Help me clean up, okay?
johana		You called the police?
sally		They're going to send detectives. When they get around to it.
johana		 So what, all they ever want is your phone number anyway.
sally		Well?
johana		What?
sally		How was your trip?
johana		 ... I guess.
sally		 Okay... Who'd you meet?
sally		A cardiogram...?  You met a doctor! Congratulations, you're in the chips...  Unless they have socialized medicine in Peru.  Do they?
johana		 It's his heartbeat.
sally		Oh Jesus...!  I'll make some coffee.  They left the stove.
johana		 6'3", 6'1", maybe 5'9" -- You can't be sure, you know the flippers, they add height or they take it away, or something.  Anyway short dark hair... Not punk or anything, just short. And the cutest smile.  He wasn't smiling at me, I don't think -- just smiling.  And he thought he saw me in the lake.  I mean that was a figure of speech... They're so romantic, the French.
sally		 I thought you said he was Peruvian?
johana		 Haven't you been listening?
sally		... Since eight o'clock last night...!  You're in love.
johana		Don't be a jerk.  There's no such thing as love at first sight.
enzo		Jacques, my friend, how are you?
jacques		 Enzo...
enzo		I leave you swimming and twenty years later, you're still in the water!  What the hell are you doing? Training?
jacques		Yes.
enzo		That's good.  You never would have recognized me, huh?  Check out the suit!  Looking good, no?  You know I'm the world champion?
jacques		Yes, I know.
enzo		I dove 315 feet!
jacques		Great!
enzo		They say I'm like Lazarus.  You know, the guy who was raised from the dead?!
enzo		 Doesn't it surprise you that I just show up like this... Listen, the world championship starts in ten days in Taormina.  Be my guest.
enzo		Your ticket.
jacques		Why?
enzo		Because I'm sure you're dying to beat me.
jacques		 I don't want to be in any competition... I dive because I like to, not to beat a record... don't you have to be very mad at somebody to want to beat him?
enzo		No.  All you need is to want to be the best.
jacques		 You're the best, Enzo!
enzo		 ... I'll see you there...
duffy		 Could you eat a sandwich 40 floors above the street.
johana		 What kind?
duffy		Johana, am I boring you?
johana		Sorry.  Of course not, definitely not... well, maybe a little.  What did you say?
duffy		I said that the file is incomplete. See if you can get through to this Lawrence character and have him send the Peruvian registration for his missing truck... and don't let him tell you it was in the glove compartment.
johana		Right Chief!
duffy		 Did the driver really freeze?
johana		Like a popsicle.  They're keeping him on a stick until spring.
duffy		My God!  I'm glad I didn't go.
johana		 ... So am I.
lawrence		 ... I said, all the truck papers are in the glove compartment!
johana		 Okay, listen, just get the custom's office to send me a copy as fast as possible.  We can't send you new equipment until our file is complete.  Okay?
lawrence		Okay, okay.  You'll have it by the end of the week, how's that?
lawrence		Then, goodbye.
johana		Wait!  Professor...?
johana		 You don't know how I could reach that diver of yours... Mayol... We need some additional information... I mean, we have a few questions to ask him.
lawrence		The last thing I heard, he was off to Taormina for the world diving championships.  That's Taormina, in Sicily!
johana		Listen, I just found out we've got real problems in Sicily!
duffy		 What d'you mean?
johana		 The mafia!  La Cosa Nostra! Coppola!  De Niro...!  I knew it!  I knew we shouldn't have written that policy!!
duffy		 What's happened??
johana		The documents are forged.
duffy		No!
johana		Yes!  The notary is a phony.  He has the same signature as the contractor!
duffy		 It can't be true!
johana		 We have to send somebody over there immediately!  If we prove the forgery we can cancel the policy. We'll be off the hook.  There's a flight to Rome in two hours and from there its just a short hop to Sicily.
duffy		 I'll send Cardoza, he'll be able to...
johana		 I tried him, he can't go.  His son is being Bar Mitzvohed tomorrow... I'll go, boss.
duffy		I thought it was Spanish that you spoke?
johana		 Italian is practically the same thing.
driver		... Taxi?
receptionist		 Mayol... Mayol... No reservation.
jacques		 ... Are you sure?
receptionist		Positive, Sir.
jacques		This is the hotel San Domenico?
receptionist		Yes Sir, and it has been so for 127 years.
jacques		 Yes, but... So, you haven't got a room left?
receptionist		No Sir, the hotel is full because of the Diving championship.
jacques		Ah?!
enzo		 Be careful with that car, it's a new paint job.
enzo		 Giacomino!  My friend!  My brother!
enzo		 So you finally decided to join us? You did the right thing!
enzo		 You remember my little brother Roberto?
jacques		I remember.  Hi Roberto!
enzo		What room have you got?
jacques		I don't have one.
enzo		You don't have a room?  Paolo?  What did I just hear?  I personally called you to reserve a room for my good friend Jacques Mayol and you treat him like a stranger?!
jacques		 It's okay, Enzo.  I'll go somewhere else.
enzo		Not only is Jacques Mayol a very special friend, but he happens to be one of the best divers in the world! And you're throwing him out!  Are you crazy, or what?  Stupido!
jacques		 Enzo drop it, I'll find something.
enzo		Take mine.  I'll take the Countess' suite.  She told me she was leaving for the cemetery... She'll be more comfortable there.
enzo		 I'm glad you're here.
enzo		 It's delicious here.  It's the one thing they really know how to make.
waiter		Del mare for two?
jacques		 Yes, sure, for two.
enzo		And a bottle of "Frascatti".  Two bottles!
waiter		Si Signore, grazie mille.
enzo		He moves just like a woman.  It must be hard to live in two worlds like that, huh?  To breathe in one, swim in the other...
enzo		 Anyway!  Nothing beats a sexy broad! Huh, Jacques!
enzo		... So, after all these years, you must have lots of questions to ask. Am I right?
jacques		 Yes, of course.  Lots of questions.
enzo		Well, what are they?
jacques		 I'm sorry... I don't know how to ask the questions.
enzo		Well, then.  I'll do the asking for you.  "Tell me dear Enzo, how did you become World Champion?"  Oh, that's a long story.  Well, after you left Amorgos, I went back to Italy and joined the Navy. So you now have in front of you -- Captain Molinari, who's been on leave of absence for the past 14 years...
jacques		That's good.
enzo		How do you make a living?  Your experiments, does it pay well?
jacques		It's okay.
enzo		... You married?
jacques		No.
enzo		Me neither, 'cause of my Mother. She's a curse, my Mamma, a tornado. Stubborn as a mule!  I was engaged... for a week.  After that, Mamma was so mad, I tell you, pasta was bouncing off the walls.
enzo		So, not married.  Well, good for you.  You play the field, like me. A girl in every port, huh?
jacques		 Exactly, I mean, after all, we're men!
enzo		 Damn right!  That's what I tell them when people say you've turned into a fish.
jacques		 People say that?
enzo		 Forget it.  I was joking.
enzo		Eh!  La Madonna!  This one is for me.  I'll bet you my watch that she's in my bed tonight.
enzo		 I tell you she's mine!
johana		 Hello!
enzo		 You know each other?
johana		Yes.
enzo		Enzo Molinari.
enzo		This is a great pleasure.
johana		 Well!  Isn't this a coincidence.  I really wasn't expecting this... All the way out here.  It's incredible!
jacques		Please, have a seat.
johana		Thank you.  I wouldn't want to interrupt anything.
jacques		No, no!
enzo		Not at all!
jacques		You're staying at the hotel?
johana		I wish, but it's full.  They recommended a pension in town.  They say that all of Taormina is full. What's going on here?
enzo		It's the Free Diving World Championship.  I am by the way world champion!
jacques		But what brought you to Sicily?
johana		I was doing an insurance investigation in Palermo.  I don't know this island at all.  It really is gorgeous.
enzo		There is no place in the world more beautiful than Sicily!
enzo		 A spaghetti del mare for the super dedicated traveling insurance agent.
johana		 I think I'll have a coffee.
jacques		No, no.  You'll like it.  It's superb.
johana		... Okay.  I'll try.
enzo		 Where did you two meet?
johana		In a lake.
enzo		I might have known.  As I was telling you earlier, I'm the world champion free diver.
johana		Congratulations.
enzo		Some people say it's the most virile sport in the world.  One has to admit that when you see those men diving head first in that deep blue sea, all muscles contracted in one super human effort...
jacques		 Enzo?
enzo		 What?
jacques		Your mother?
enzo		Ahi, ahi, cazzo!  Ma mamia! Where...?  God, she'll kill me...  ... if she catches me eating pasta in a restaurant.
enzo		... Mamma!
mamma molinari		 You expect me to carry all the luggage myself?
enzo		Mamma.  Roberto and an elevator... Isn't that enough?
mamma molinari		 What have you been eating?
enzo		Coffee only, I'm diving tomorrow. You remember little Jacques, Jacques Mayol...
jacques		 Madame...
enzo		... And his friend, Johana...
waiter		 Spaghetti del mare!
johana		 Thank you.
mamma molinari		Americana?
mamma molinari		 Benvenuto!
johana		Thanks for helping with the bag.  It looks great!
jacques		I thought it was a nice place.  Isn't it?
johana		I'm being a pain in the ass.  It's beautiful here.
johana		You're going to be very busy these days aren't you?
jacques		I don't know... why?
johana		Just because... I would have liked to visit the town... See the coast... I don't know anybody... Expect for you.  But you are going to be very busy. You must have tons of things to prepare, interviews... And a competition like this one must require a great deal of concentration, right?
jacques		 Yes... Maybe... I don't know.  I don't like competitions... It ruins the fun.  Don't you think?
johana		 I guess... But you know... I'm American and I've mostly been taught to be competitive... There's always pleasure of being the best?
jacques		Maybe on earth there is one... but not when you dive... You see, to dive deep into the sea, for no reason... just to do it.  It's a feeling... I don't know how to say this... Voluptuous?
johana		 You can put down the suitcases, you know.
enzo		C'mon, you two... Jacques, we have to get ready for the ceremony tonight.  We have a new world champion.
jacques		I'm a little tired, I don't know if...
enzo		Get in the car!
enzo		Roberto!  The bow-tie!
enzo		 Very good.
roberto		What about the shoes?
enzo		Very chic.  Anyway, you don't have anything else, do you?
jacques		No.
enzo		Then, it's very chic.  Avanti!
johana		I thought you'd be at the dinner.
jacques		It's too loud for me.
johana		You look adorable.
jacques		Thank you...
johana		 ... Especially the sneakers.
novelli		Ladies and Gentlemen, your attention, please.  Mr. Andre Bonnet, President of the International Diving Championship Committee, is going to present this trophy to the new world champion of free diving.  This afternoon, our new champion descended to the remarkable depth of 280 feet.
novelli		This young man Tia...
novelli		Tiraro... Tirao-re... Moa...
tahitian		Tiraero Moameora.
novelli		... Let's all give him a big hand.
enzo		 A one day hero!
enzo		A new world record!  That's great! It gives me something to beat tomorrow!  You ever been to Tahiti?
johana		No.
enzo		I'll take you there.  We'll live in the sun.  You'll cook fresh fish and we'll make love under the coconut trees.
johana		You forgot the Hula!
enzo		Yes, of course, I'll do the Hula!
johana		You'll be lovely, but no thanks.  Jacques, would you do a native dance for me?
jacques		I don't know how... Excuse me.
enzo		He looks strange, doesn't he?  Like a baby that just learned to walk.
johana		Have you known him long?
enzo		Forever.  We used to live on the same island in Greece, when we were kids.
johana		What was he like, when he was little?
enzo		Little.  Very little.  And skinny, very skinny too.  That is compared to me.
johana		 I get it, Enzo you were a superior child.
enzo		Exactly!  What is it Johana?  You're so crazy about him, you don't see the truth?!
enzo		Forget it, don't think of Jacques as a human being.  He's from another world.
johana		And just where are you from?
enzo		Italy!
enzo		There is nothing like music.  It speaks from the heart.  Can you tell me why we bother diving in the dark, the cold, without ever taking the time to breathe?  Huh?  Can you tell me why we do it?
enzo		Why?
jacques		... For the mermaids.
enzo		My father used to see them everywhere too... but the only one he ever caught was my mother... Actually she caught him.
jacques		Today at lunch, you asked me if I had any questions.
enzo		Ah ha.  You finally want to know about women.
jacques		Why?  Are they what's most important?
enzo		No... It depends... Sometimes they are... What, exactly do you want to know?
jacques		... Everything.
enzo		Everything about what?
jacques		 Well... about everything.
enzo		... So, between Mamma, Roberto and the sisters, we yell and scream all day long.  Except with Angelica. She just cries.  And then finally, we all end up kissing.  Can you explain that to me?
enzo		Because that's what love is all about.  It's a pain in the ass but keeps us together.  A large and beautiful family!
jacques		 Enzo... We must quit the competition.
enzo		 Why?
jacques		If we don't... I'm going to beat you.
enzo		 Do you hear that?
johana		No.
enzo		He looks me in the eye like some fuckin' gold fish, and says:  "I'm going to beat you".
johana		 ... That's what he's here for, isn't he?
enzo		Listen to her!  "That's what he's here for"!  He's here to loose, that's what he's here for.  First of all, I'm unbeatable.  Second, how old are you?
jacques		Two years younger than you.
enzo		As I said, second of all you're too skinny.  You've got tiny lungs.  I still don't understand how you can dive without getting sick.
jacques		The size of the lungs has nothing to do with it!
enzo		Look at me.  These aren't lungs. These are... Tanks.  How long can you hold your breath?
jacques		 I don't know.  Longer than you.
enzo		We'll see.
johana		Take it easy...
paramedic		Don't worry, he's empty now.  He needs sleep, that's all.
jacques		Who won?
johana		Won what?  The Ass Hole Award? Well, let me tell you, it's a tie!
johana		Acting like a pair of two year olds! You could have died in that damn pool!
jacques		Please move slowly, you're rocking the boat.
johana		 Lucky I was there to save you.
jacques		 You jumped in?
johana		Only to help the medics, I assure you.
jacques		My wallet.
johana		It's still here.
jacques		No.  I want to show you.  Is it ruined?
johana		Well, water isn't exactly the best thing for pictures... Not even for pictures of dolphins...
jacques		Give it to me.
jacques		 What kind of man has such a family?
jacques		I'm sick of never feeling at home anywhere.
roberto		Enzo, wake up!
enzo		 Eh?  Si!  Avanti!
roberto		The medics are looking all over for you.
enzo		 I'm meditating, can't you see? Jacques does two hours of yoga before going down.  I can take a five minute nap, can't I?
doctor		Mr. Molinari, I'm terribly sorry but I cannot allow you to dive in such an advanced state of exhaustion.
enzo		 What do you know about the sea? Huh?  Nothing!  So you just put your tubes and tin cans away.  The sea is mine!  I know when she is ready for me and when she isn't.  And today, she is ready.  Understand?
doctor		You dive at your own risk.  You're been warned.
enzo		Brave.
johana		You scared me!
johana		Just checking up on your family.  I guess I was drunker than I thought and the idea of going back to my hotel in a wet dress... Well...
jacques		I'm glad you stayed.  Thank you.
johana		 I'd better get back now.
jacques		You... You wouldn't want to spend the day with me?
jacques		 ... No?
johana		No?  Huh?  Yes, of course!!
jacques		What's the matter?
trainer		I don't understand.  We've tried for two days.  They won't eat.  They won't perform.  It's since we got the new one.
jacques		Is she the new one?
johana		How can you tell it's a female?
jacques		... The way she moves.
trainer		Did you ever think of trying the public pool?
johana		He's a dolphin specialist.
trainer		In that case what's wrong with the new one?  Is she sick or not.
jacques		 Not the way you mean.
trainer		What am I supposed to do?  Do I call the dealer...?  The investment, you understand... I certainly am entitled to complain!
jacques		It's going to cost you more than you think!
jacques		She's not like the others.  She can't stand to be away from the sea.
johana		 How do you know that?
jacques		 I don't know, I just feel it.
enzo		 Ah!  Jacques!
enzo		Don't be sad, I only took back what was mine.
enzo		Here, it's a present.
jacques		 ... Thank you.
enzo		 Tonight we're having a little party among ourselves.  8 o'clock in my suite?
johana		Okay.
enzo		Tell me... Can you explain why you are soaking wet?
johana		... We're in training.
novelli		 Mr. Roberto, tell your brother to be reasonable.  Everyone is waiting for him upstairs.  The photographers are there, the press...
novelli		 Shall we call a doctor?
roberto		No, it's okay.  Mamma is going to try something.
novelli		Mr. Mayol, help us.  He refuses to receive his medal and everybody is waiting for him up there.  We already have problems with the press because of the danger, and if we don't even have the divers help...!
jacques		 ... I'll do my best.
novelli		That's very kind of you.
jacques		It's Jacques... Mayol!
enzo		Jacques!  My friend!  Come on in!
novelli		Mr. Enzo Molinari, allow me to impress upon you the importance of your attending the Award Ceremony... For the press...
enzo		 I think my brother told you I was indisposed, that should do it, no? I'm allowed to be indisposed, right? So, you just tell the press that the "big" Enzo Molinari, overwhelmed by his inspiring descent to 324 feet, will not be able to receive this trinket because he is...
enzo		Because he is?!
enzo		 Brave!
jacques		Tell me, why don't you go and get your medal?
enzo		Because pasta should be eaten "Al Dente".  So the trinket will just have to wait a bit.
enzo		 Mamma!  La pasta?!
mamma molinari		Arrivo!  Arrivo!
enzo		... It's easy.  You go down.  You come up.  ... Right, Johana?
johana		 Congratulations, Enzo.
enzo		Don't you agree, Jacques?
jacques		... You always were the best.
enzo		Ah!  La pasta!
mamma molinari		 Buon appetito, Signorina!
enzo		 What's the matter?  You still have a bunch of things to ask me?  You want to know the price of tea in China of how we landed on the moon?  Is that it?
jacques		No, I have to ask you a favor...  You're the only one who'll understand.
enzo		 ... I'm listening.
mamma molinari		Tutto va bene?
novelli		 Gracie mille, chignora.
enzo		 Hey!  Will you slow down!  When did you learn how to drive?
jacques		Driving isn't the problem, it's remembering the right road.
enzo		And the lights!  Running lights, stealing stretchers...!  You'll have us in jail.
johana		Enzo, stop bitching, will you?
jacques		 You can't stay here!  Come on!  Go away!
enzo		You can stop that now, she has all the water she needs.
enzo		All right, we did it.  Let's go back to the party.
jacques		Just one minute.
enzo		Jacques, the dolphin is home now. And that's where we're going.  Come on!  Hurry up now.  Our girlfriend is freezing over there.
johana		Well, good night, then...
enzo		You going to sleep here, all by yourself?
johana		Yes...
johana		... It's a comfortable place.
enzo		Sinister is what I'd call it...! Ours is so much cheerful!  Why don't you come and stay with me... There's plenty of room in my suite.
johana		 The Mamma's there too.
enzo		 Yes, the Mamma is is there.
johana		Good night Enzo, Good night Jacques.
jacques		Good night.
enzo		 You don't need a stretcher to take her with you.  You know that, don't you?
jacques		What?
enzo		The dolphins aren't the only ones who don't feel very good sometimes.
johana		Leave it alone, Enzo, it's okay.
johana		Can I come watch you dive tomorrow?
jacques		 Uh... Yes, of course!
enzo		You really do have a few things to learn about women!
johana		What are they for?
novelli		They're paramedics.  They wait at 180 feet.
johana		 If there was a problem, they could do something right?
novelli		Of course, that's what they're for.
johana		 ... And those?
novelli		Those are the divers who go down 300 to 330 feet.  They dive with a Helium-oxygen mixture.  At that depth, compressed air is too dangerous because it contains carbon dioxide.
johana		What's that little air bottle on the machine?
novelli		That isn't for the divers actually. It's for the balloon.  It blows up and pulls the diver up like an elevator.  Without it, with the pressure at the bottom, the diver would just stay pinned to the sea bed.
johana		 But doesn't Jacques dive without anything?
novelli		 Yes... It's magic.
technician		Tre minuti!
technician		Due minuti!
technician		Uno minuto!
underwater		 The gueuse slides down the cable.  JACQUES hangs on like a ribbon in the wind, past a marker, 90 feet down.  Above him, the boat disappears from sight.  He moves faster and faster... through a sea that looks like a cloudy sky.  The light fades rapidly around him.  Below, white spotlights pierce an ocean dark as night. JACQUES reaches them in a matter of seconds.  Turns the brakes, brings his machine to a halt, 180 feet down.  The medics are waiting for him there.  They take his pulse.  Check his eyes... 15 seconds... normal... the bubbles from there scuba tanks churn the water around them...  JACQUES closes his eyes... a tap on the shoulder, he releases the brake on the gueuse.  Plunges further, this time into pitch black.  Below him a faint spotlight glows on the bottom.  He reaches it and the dark diver moves to him.  JACQUES brakes his machine.  Moving very slowly, turns his body right side up.  Like a sleep walker, JACQUES starts to take the plaque off the plumbline... pauses in the middle of the gesture.  The dark diver flashes the high sign to JACQUES, thumb and forefinger touching, fingers extended, all clear.  JACQUES does not respond.  The diver repeats the signal.  JACQUES does not respond.  The diver taps JACQUES on the shoulder... a beat... and then JACQUES responds, thumb and forefinger touching okay. Slowly, reluctantly, he wraps his hand around the handle of the balloon.  The dark diver quickly turns the handle for him.  The balloon inflates.  JACQUES hangs on... lets it carry him up.  At the plague marking 210 feet, JACQUES lets go of the the balloon.  With a burst of speed, it darts toward the surface.  JACQUES follows slowly, undulating like a fish... He's getting warm now... He closes his eyes.  Passes the medical control without stopping... without even seeing it like someone asleep.  He's moving faster now, toward the warmth, toward the air. JACQUES opens his eyes, watches the lights grow brighter.  The silhouette of the boat comes back into view.  60 feet to go.
johana		 Jacques, listen to the applause.
johana		 Jacques, you set a world record.
jacques		I did?
johana		Aren't you happy?  Don't you feel proud...?  I feel proud and all I did was watch.
enzo		Congratulations Jacques!  It's wonderful!  Wonderful!
enzo		I'm happy for you!
enzo		 Here...
jacques		What is it?
enzo		Little presents, nothing much... I knew it, I just knew it!  Look here!
enzo		Roberto's watch!  I won it!  He bet that you couldn't beat me!
enzo		You still collect them?
jacques		Yes.
enzo		You don't have that one, do you?
jacques		No.  Thank you.  It's really beautiful.
enzo		Oh it's nothing.  I knew it.  I told Roberto "He's very good that little Frenchman, very good".  I lost my title but I won a watch!
johana		Is it a poem?
enzo		No, it's the recipe for spaghetti "Frutti del mare".  You see I was right in getting you out here.  You're a world champion, my friend!
enzo		It's a measuring tape.
enzo		You see this is your record, three feet more than mine!  Looking at it from here, it doesn't look like much, does it?
enzo		Keep your little measuring tape, my friend, it will be a nice souvenir when I beat you next.
johana		Jacques?
jacques		 What are you doing here?
johana		I'm going to leave, Jacques.
johana		I'm going back home.
jacques		Why?
johana		Because one shouldn't fall in love with creatures from the sea.
jacques		I'm not from the sea... I don't understand what you're talking about.
johana		Yes you do.  You know exactly what I'm talking about.  You're afraid I want to hold onto you, and I do, but you're not ready... at least not for me.
jacques		But it's not true, I feel good with you... It feels right...
johana		I've got to get back to the hotel... and get my suitcase packed.
jacques		Will... will we see each other again?
johana		Take good care of yourself, Jacques.
jacques		Where can I call you?  Johana, tell me where can I call you?
jacques		Can I come in?
enzo		No problem, I enjoy talking in my sleep.
enzo		 Hmmm!  Something wrong?
enzo		Is it the girl?
enzo		Did she leave?
enzo		Hey!  I'm going to take care of you! I've got this job, on an oil rig, no sweat!  I'm taking you along... Come on!  Get your bags packed!  You're coming with me, I tell you!
enzo		We'll make a great team, the two of us.  You'll see!
superintendent		Mayol, Molinari...?
superintendent		We've been waiting for you for three days.  Goddamnit!
enzo		Is that the way you talk to the best diver in the world...?  And to his friend Jacques Mayol!
superintendent		Show them their quarters.
jacques		 He doesn't like us.
enzo		So what!?  His job is to hand out the paychecks.  And he does that very well, let me tell you.
enzo		 You still thinking about her?
enzo		Don't think about her anymore!  Let me tell you, you're just making yourself unhappy!  There are so many women in the world!
enzo		Plenty of women everywhere right?
noireuter		 Smoking is absolutely forbidden.
enzo		It isn't lit yet.
noireuter		You shouldn't even carry cigarettes on board!
enzo		Listen we're not supposed to piss either but that doesn't stop you from carrying "it" on board?!
noireuter		 The rules are the rules.
enzo		 ... What's your name again?
noireuter		Noireuter.
enzo		And where did you say you were from?
noireuter		I didn't say...  Brussels!
technician		They're at 450 feet.
enzo		... I was seventeen, I loved her so much I tried to die for her.  Two years later I couldn't even remember her name!  Let me tell you, time erases everything!
jacques		I don't want to erase anything.
enzo		You'd rather think about it and make yourself miserable?
jacques		 ... Yes.
enzo		 I give you this.  You're stubborn... Dumb, but stubborn.
jacques		 Thank you.
technician		Minus 800 feet.  End of descent.
noireuter		 You have enough air for 15 minutes.
enzo		 What's with the voice?
noireuter		It's nothing.  It's just the helium, because of the air pressure.
enzo		 And... does the voice come back?
noireuter		For others, yes... For you, who knows?
enzo		 Try speaking to me?
jacques		 I don't find this funny.  We were having a serious conversation.
enzo		 Here, give me your finger.
noireuter		 Is that alcohol?  Are you out of your mind?  Alcohol is strictly forbidden.
enzo		 Hey!  D'you have any other complaints?  Just make a list and we'll stick it on the porthole! Okay?
enzo		Go on, suck your finger.
noireuter		Are you crazy?  At this pressure?
jacques		It's very deep down here.
enzo		Come on, suck your finger, you'll be seeing mermaids everywhere!
enzo		 A thousand commanders and we get a Belgian from Alcoholic's Anonymous.
underwater		 ENZO gets out of the diving capsule, head first. He is connected to the capsule by a number of cables.  JACQUES, who follows him, gets completely tangled up in them.  They are both hilariously drunk.
superintendent		Can you hear me?  What's going on?  Are you sure you're on the right channel?
underwater		 The two divers have gotten to the spot they are supposed to be working on.  They have their arms around each other and are dancing.  NOIREUTER watches them through the porthole.  He shakes his head in complete disbelief.
superintendent		If those guys are playing a radio down there they'd just better watch out!!
sally		... And if we repaint the walls, we'll need new curtains, you put the painters on you Visa and I'll do the curtains on American Express... for the couch there's Bloomingdales... or are you still over your limit?
johana		 Way past it.
sally		Does that have a hidden meaning?
johana		No.  I'm just depressed.
sally		You look it too.  You haven't been working out, you haven't been taking your vitamins!  You haven't been drinking your herbs, you haven't been...
johana		 It's... I'm so damn, damn sad.
sally		What is it honey... the frenchy?
johana		 I should have stayed!  I was supposed to be in love... I was in love!  I am in love, why did I act like a bitch?  He went swimming. All the man did was go swimming!  I must be crazy.  It was too good to be true.
sally		Vitamins, exercise, herb tea... and see a doctor, will ya?
doctor		Well Miss Cross, herbs aren't going to do the trick this time.
johana		 It's serious, right?
doctor		I think so.  You're pregnant... Congratulations!  If that's in order?
johana		It's in order!  Thank you.  Thank you.
doctor		I don't think it's me you have to thank.
duffy		Good afternoon.
johana		 I came to make a clean breast of everything... the whole business.
duffy		 Yes.  Of course.  Very wise.
johana		 One million, four hundred and ten thousand dollars.  But if you were to dock my salary, say, twenty dollars a week, in a few hundred years we'd be even... and I think this is where you fire me?
duffy		 You're right.  You're fired.
johana		Will that interfere with my getting maternity leave?  I'm pregnant.
duffy		The Italian, I presume?
johana		No.  He's French, he was just in Italy for the competition.
duffy		 He seems to have won it.
johana		Yes, isn't it wonderful?  I'm so happy.  I'll bet I'm the happiest pregnant fired person in the world!
johana		Bon appetit and Adieu!
johana		It's me... Johana.
jacques		How are you?
johana		I got fired.
johana		 It's getting light out.
jacques		I've been thinking about you a lot, you know...
johana		So have I.  ... Hello?
jacques		I'm still here.
johana		Well, then, talk to me some more.
jacques		... It's hard you know.  You're so far away and I don't know what else to say.
johana		Then, tell me a story.
jacques		Uh... Ah!  A story?
jacques		Do you know how it is?  Do you know what you're supposed to do to meet a mermaid?
johana		 No... tell me.
jacques		You go down to the bottom of the sea, where the water isn't even blue anymore, where the sky is only a memory... and you float there, quietly, quietly and stay there... and you decide that you will die for them... Only then do they start coming out.  They come and greet you and they judge the love you have for them... If it's sincere.  If it's pure... They will be with you and take you away forever.
jacques		Hello?
johana		 I'm being a pain, huh?
jacques		... Not at all.
jacques		 Absolutely positive.
jacques		 Okay... huh, I'll be right over.
driver		 The Carlton!  Enjoy your siesta.
johana		 Are you okay?
jacques		... I think I love you.
johana		Why did you take me to the hotel, if you live here.
jacques		You'll understand.
johana		 Someone in there?
jacques		Don't be afraid.  It's my Uncle... Louis.
uncle louis		Assassin!
jacques		 Uncle Louis, this is my friend Johana.
uncle louis		Did you buy the cassettes?  The Wagner, the Berlioz?
jacques		I brought Johana to meet you.
uncle louis		Are you crazy?  I have no use for a woman!  Since my accident.
jacques		No, no.  Johana is visiting me.
jacques		 Uncle Louis.  He's a 75 year old amazing guy, isn't he?
johana		I'm very pleased to meet you, Uncle Louis.
uncle louis		 This idiot never listens to anything I say.  Sometimes I wonder if he isn't deaf.
uncle louis		Where are you from, Henrietta?
jacques		 Johana... New York.
uncle louis		What kind of name is that?  To be named after a city?
jacques		 He doesn't hear too well.
johana		 I said I was from New York.
uncle louis		 That explains it!  The best lays are from New York!
jacques		Uncle Louis!
uncle louis		No, no.  It's true.  When I was in New York, oh boy! 
jacques		 Uncle Louis!  Johana is my friend. She's come to stay with me for a while.
uncle louis		Good.  That way I'll see more of you... Where are you going to stay?
jacques		Well... here.
uncle louis		 In my apartment?
jacques		 It's my apartment.
uncle louis		 Liar!  Thief!  Torturer!  When you were an orphan I nursed you at my breast.
jacques		Uncle Louis, we have a guest!
uncle louis		I'm going to put a lock on the telephone.  Did you bring the cassettes?
jacques		 You think it'll be all right? You'll be comfortable here?
johana		 It's going to be... interesting.
roberto		 ... It's not like him to be late. Of course sometimes he doesn't show up at all.  Once in Capri, he...
johana		 Jacques, I think Louis needs help.
uncle louis		 Two dollars for this!  This fish wasn't caught.  It died of cancer!
roberto		 Here he comes!
enzo		Jacques!  Johana!
johana		Enzo!
jacques		Enzo!
roberto		 Where did you get that?
enzo		 Where's Mamma?
roberto		 You have eight hours before she gets here.
enzo		He's really going totally deaf!
uncle louis		I'm not as deaf as you are blind, my boy!  You take care of your eyes, I'll take care of my ears!
enzo		 I'm sorry Uncle Louis.
uncle louis		Come on, drink up, my boy!  It might just save us from your bullshit.
jacques		I'm glad you could come.  I want you to meet Enzo.
lawrence		 So you're the famous Enzo Molinari?
enzo		 In the flesh.  I have that honor!
bonita		You're going to live here permanently?
johana		... Maybe, if Jacques will let me fix up the place a little.
bonita		 He's shy, not like Enzo.
johana		Yes.  Not like Enzo.
bonita		 I think, he's really nice... He's a funny guy... sometimes even very moving.
johana		 ... I'm pregnant, Bonita!
bonita		Are you going to keep it?
johana		Yes.
bonita		Does he know?
johana		No.
bonita		 Maybe you should talk to him about it.
johana		I can't... I just don't know how to...
johana		I was thinking of something kinda stupid last night.  You know those women in the greek mythology that made love with the Gods.  Take Leda for example, sleeping with Jupiter, who came to earth as a swan... Well, can you imagine Leda announcing to her swan "You're going to be a father, my little chick-a-dee"?
bonita		 But your man isn't quite a God!
johana		 Probably not, but I still don't have the nerve to tell him.
bonita		Well, you're going to have to tell him, sometime!
johana		And you...?  Do you love Enzo?
bonita		 But, there's going to be a problem.
roberto		 Mamma, calimari fritti... Zuppa de pesci.  Sono buoni.
mamma molinari		 Nothing.  I'm not hungry.
enzo		Mamma, Bonita is an actress like Sophia Loren, Anna Magnani...
bonita		 Sarah Bernardt.  I sing too... a hell of a Carmen.  Want to hear?
mamma molinari		 No thank you.
jacques		Uncle Louis, you remember Enzo's mother Signora Molinari from Amorgos?
uncle louis		 The whale!  How could I forget? Always was something fishy about that woman!
uncle louis		What were Italians doing living in Greece anyway?
jacques		Louis, we were French!
uncle louis		That's different!  What's the matter with you?
roberto		 Mamma, pesce di spada?
uncle louis		 Hey, whale!  Can you pass down the squids?
enzo		A shit dive.
enzo		Those goddamned frogmen doctors waiting around at 200 feet they just kill your concentration.
novelli		They're required by law.
enzo		 ... Have fun!  They waiting for you down there, to take the temperature of your ass.
enzo		 Anybody can have a bad day!
jacques		I've had many... when the sea doesn't want you.
enzo		 It's never the sea!  It's Roberto, Mamma, that stupid actress... Oh shit!  Jacques, what do you know? Go do your Hindu exercises and don't break my balls!
johana		Well, how was it?
jacques		 Enzo had a bad day.
johana		 And you?
jacques		I didn't dive.
johana		 You'll try again tomorrow?
jacques		I don't know... it didn't feel right.  I'm going to bed.  I'm tired.
johana		You forgot your magazine!
jacques		What?
johana		... Nothing.
enzo		Let them try.
bonita		I wanted to say goodbye, Johana.
johana		You're leaving?
bonita		Yes...  Could you please give this to Enzo.
johana		Of course.
bonita		It's no use... Just tell him I said goodbye... And give him a kiss for me, Okay?
johana		 Bonita, you shouldn't be discouraged so easily.
bonita		I don't have the strength to fight off la Mamma... Anyway who wants to spend their whole life waiting at the end of a pier.
bonita		Did you tell him?
johana		Not yet... I'm waiting for the right moment.
bonita		... You take care of yourself, Johana.
jacques		 Good huh?
lawrence		He really was unbelievable, 328 feet, deeper than the world record...  ... And, Jacques!  He held his breath for four minutes and fifty seconds!
jacques		 Good... I guess I have tomorrow's work cut out for me as Enzo would say...
lawrence		 You must be very careful, Jacques. At these depths, to hold your breath for over five minutes is... You'd really be pushing it.  I think it's very, very dangerous.
jacques		 Enzo, Enzo!  Congratulations!
enzo		 Thank you, thank you very much!
novelli		... Now I'm sure you've heard that some people have suggested it is too dangerous for us to continue. Dangerous, because we don't know how to measure the physiological consequences of this type of dive and also because the scuba divers are not used to going down below 300 feet.
novelli		But, we polled the free divers and they insist that the competition continue!
enzo		 Good luck to you all!
enzo		 Fabulous, what a dive, huh?
enzo		He's right.  What's the point of knocking yourself out?
johana		 What are you doing?
jacques		I'm putting you on the coin... Your essence... That way you'll always be with me when I dive.
underwater		 JACQUES dives down very fast.  The control takes place at 200 feet, the doctors check him and let him go.  He continues his descent, it's getting darker and darker around him.  The gueuse stops at the level of the underwater platform, just below the diver, who swims over to him in a sea of bubbles from his oxygen bottles.  He asks JACQUES if he is alright, JACQUES nods and gives him a huge smile before swimming off, downwards!  The diver realizes and starts after him.  He grabs JACQUES by one of his fins and pulls him back to the round platform.  JACQUES lets go of the balloon.  The diver panics.  JACQUES slowly motions that everything is fine and slowly paddles up to the surface.
novelli		 360 feet!  He dove 360 feet!!!
jacques		 ... There's a party at the hotel tonight.
enzo		 That's good.
jacques		 Enzo, don't be angry.  I was lucky... that's all.
enzo		 I'll see you in Amorgos.
johana		Jacques...?
jacques		You go back, I'll walk.
jacques		 I won today.  I dove very deep, Tina.
jacques		What's so funny?  Can you dive deeper?
jacques		 So you understand everything?
jacques		That's good... So tell me why they're all angry at me?  Why is Enzo angry?  I never wanted to compete with him.  I never wanted to be champion of anything... All I want is to escape from them all... For just a few minutes, no people... No noise... Nothing but the sea.
jacques		Do you really understand me?  Huh? Are we actually having a conversation here?
jacques		All right then, tell me:  can I ever dive as deep as you?  Stay under as long...?
jacques		Are you sure?
jacques		It's beautiful, isn't it?
jacques		What's wrong?
johana		It's nothing.  Just the long trip. I'm a little jet-lagged.
jacques		You want to lie down for a while?
johana		No, I'll be fine.  Can you just hand me a glass of water?
enzo		Is he here?
roberto		 He's training.
enzo		Okay, now we have a good five minutes to have a nice peaceful talk.
johana		What are you doing here?
enzo		Checking out the competition.
johana		Enzo, why do you guys do this?
enzo		 What else is there?
johana		 You know what I'm talking about. Why do you and Jacques risk your lives diving?
enzo		 You risk your life when you cross the street.
johana		 Damn it!  Why won't you give me a straight answer, for once?!
enzo		Because you'd laugh.
johana		I won't, I swear.
enzo		 I dive in search of God.  If I go deep enough I'm going to find him. To me, the sea is a religion... That surprises you, doesn't it?
johana		 A little... You think it's the same for Jacques?
enzo		 No.  Jacques is a creature of the sea.  He isn't meant to live on earth, among us... You should know this, Johana.
johana		 He can learn.  He is learning.
enzo		You really think so?  Did you tell him you were pregnant?
johana		 How do you know that?
enzo		You told Bonita, but you didn't tell him, right?
johana		... Not yet.
enzo		Don't.
johana		Why?
enzo		Because he won't understand and it will just hurt you... Jacques has been put on earth by complete mistake.  And he's only waiting for one thing:  that some God up there will turn him into a fish!  How long has that moron been down there?
johana		 Five minutes and fifty seconds.
enzo		 That idiot!
johana		Is he alright?  What happened?
enzo		 The fool was asleep!  If I weren't around, he'd already be dead!!!  Is that who you want to live with? Well, good luck!  You better learn to look after him because I won't always be here to do it!
jacques		 ... How long was I asleep?
enzo		 Long enough to die.  Listen, if you really want to die, that's your problem, but don't do it under my nose, okay?
enzo		 I'll never let you take away my title.  D'you hear me?  Never!
johana		Do you ever sometimes just stop and think how sweet life can be?
jacques		... Sure.
johana		... When you dive... with that machine... What does it feel like?
jacques		 ... The feeling of slipping without falling... The hardest is once you are at the bottom.
johana		Why?
jacques		Because you have to find a good reason to come back up again... And I always have a hard time finding one.
enzo		 ... You should start playing the piano, the piano is really refreshing, it clears the sinuses. Very good the piano!  Tomorrow is going to be a big day!
lawrence		... When I analyzed the data from Mayol's last dive, it became apparent...  For the last time.  I'm telling you cancel the competition.
medic		Molinari's a seventeen time world champion.  Do you want to tell him he can't dive.
novelli		Get Mayol in here.
jacques		Enzo?  Enzo, it's important.
enzo		I'm concentrating.
jacques		 We can't dive anymore.  They want to cancel the competition for a while.
jacques		 It's not safe, they say.  The doctors say it isn't possible to go deeper and live.  Free diving is over as a sport.
enzo		You say that because you have the title!
jacques		No!  I would never cheat you.
enzo		Well that's very nice of you.
enzo		 You were right.
jacques		 ... I was right about what?
enzo		 ... It is much better down there. It's a better place.
enzo		... Push me back in the water...
jacques		 I can't.
enzo		Jacques, take me back down... Please.
lawrence		Just give him five minutes!  What does it matter now, anyway... Come on, just leave him alone!
a doctor		 The heart is going to stop!  The stimulator, quickly.
a doctor		The heart started again!  It's all right!
lawrence		Take this.  Have a good sleep.
lawrence		Sweet dreams.
jacques		 Kiss me.
johana		Sleep now.  We'll talk later.
roberto		I've packed all of... Enzo's clothes.  ... to call Mamma.
johana		I'll go see how he's doing.
lawrence		Let him sleep.
johana		 Jacques... Are you alright?
johana		 Jacques?  Are you alright?  Answer me!  Are you alright?
johana		You've got to tell me what happened?
jacques		I saw how it has to be.
johana		Jacques, you know I love you.
jacques		 I've gotta go and see.
johana		See what?  There is nothing to see! It's pitch black down there!  It's cold.  You'll be all alone!  Look at me, Jacques!  I am here!  I exist! Look!!!  Please!
johana		Jacques?  I'm pregnant.
jacques		That's good... that's wonderful. It's wonderful for you.
johana		You are the father.
johana		 I lied... to keep you here.
johana		Promise me one thing.
jacques		Anything.
johana		Promise you won't forget me.
underwater		 JACQUES slides along the cable, pulled by the weight of the gueuse.  He has a beautiful smile on his face.  He is in his element.  Night has closed in around him.  He turns on the headlight of the gueuse, it casts a dim light around him.
underwater		 JACQUES keeps going down, as serene as ever.  He has gained a lot of speed.
underwater		 The gueuse jerks to a stop and shakes the cable.  JACQUES turns his body right side up.
****Dialogues from script :Big_Eyes.txt****

jane		Good luck.
boss		We don't get many ladies in here. So your husband approves of you working?
margaret		 My husband and I are separated.
margaret		Sir, I realize I have no employment experience... but I sure need this job. I have a daughter to support.
margaret		I studied at the Watkins Art Institute in Nashville, then took Illustration classes in New York. Here's a pastel I did... here's some fashion design... a portrait in charcoal... though I enjoy mixing mediums, preferably oil and ink... She's alive, enthused. The guy shakes his head.
boss		You do understand this is a furniture company?
margaret		Deirdre, look at you!
margaret		"Dee-Ann"?!
margaret		Jane -- is swell. She's started in a sweet little school.
margaret		Do they only show Modern?
margaret		What's espresso?
tourist guy		Your stuff is cute. How much?
margaret		Today's a special: Two dollars.
tourist guy		I'll give you one. Beat -- then she nods, agreeing. She gestures. The little BOY sits. Margaret clips a fresh sheet of paper, sharpens her charcoal... and... goes motionless. Studying the boy's face. He gazes back. Then -- inspired, she begins sketching his EYES. Large and exaggerated. Then she fills in the shape of his head. His ears. His jaw. In a rush, his likeness appears. The parents come over to peek -- then gasp. Margaret is good. She sketches faster. Focused. Until a LOUD, PLUMMY VOICE drifts in...
man's voice		Monet? "Monet"?! Whew -- that's a hell of a compliment. Though, if I may respectfully disagree, I'm more in the tradition of Pissarro. Margaret looks up, distracted. She resumes her work.
man's voice		C'mon, get closer. Closer! Look at that sunlight coming through the mottled leaves. That's a bold yellow! Curious, Margaret casually peers over...
her pov		Holding court in another booth is WALTER KEANE, 40. Walter is astonishing: Hugely confident. Charming. Waggishly handsome. And dressed like an "Artist" -- striped turtleneck, with hands full of brushes. Walter's stall is filled with oils of Paris street scenes. He casually flirts with TWO YOUNG COEDS. They admire a painting.
walter		You wanna touch it? Do it! I lay it on thick -- you're not gonna break it!
walter		Excuse me, Ladies.
wide		Walter strides up to Margaret. She peers nervously... trying to ignore him. She sketches faster. Shading... Walter watches. Admiring... and discreetly smelling her hair. Margaret pays no attention. Done, she blows into a can of Fix- It. Poosh! A fine mist sprays, setting the portrait. Without fanfare, she humbly turns the picture.
margaret		All finished. Her customers gape, impressed. She smiles. The guy counts out four quarters, then happily leaves.
walter		You're better than spare change. You shouldn't sell yourself so cheap.
margaret		I'm just glad they liked it.
walter		Ahhh! You're past that point! Your heart is in your work... He leans in, too close. Margaret shivers. Breathing faster.
walter		What's your name?
margaret		M-Margaret... Mmm. He grins, checking her out... her loose sexy blouse and tight black capris. She flushes.
margaret		Wouldn't you rather flirt with those dolls over there?
walter		Mm, no.
walter		"...Ulbrich."
walter		Little Girl! How would you like your portrait sketched by the World- Renowned Margaret Ulbrich?! Queen of the Bay! In mere minutes, she will capture your soul! Hm. Jane shrugs, unimpressed.
jane		Nah.
walter		"Nah"?!  Don't you wish this were you in this beautiful painting??
jane		But that IS me! And that's me...  And that one started as me, but then Mother turned it into a Chinese boy. Huh? Walter peers at Jane... then at Margaret. And then -- it hits him. He grimaces, embarrassed.
walter		Oh, you're Mommy! My apologies, Honey. I misconstrued the situation.
on margaret		A gut decision. She stares at Walter, then smiles slyly.
margaret		Mr. Ulbrich is out of the picture...!
on walter		His face slowly lights up. Ah! Sun breaking through clouds.
walter		Bonsoir, gang! Henri! Sorry I didn't call first. Est-ce que tout va bien?
walter		Je vais bien! I'm with a beautiful woman! Could life be any grander?? They get led in. Margaret is dazzled. Walter whispers.
walter		And I don't even have to pay! I'm set because I gave the chef a painting. You know what he said? "Nobody paints Montmartre like Walter Keane!"
later		Margaret and Walter enjoy an intimate dinner. The wine flows.
margaret		I can't believe you lived in Paris.
walter		Best time of my life...
margaret		I've never even been on an airplane.
walter		Well you have to experience these things! Grab 'em!!
margaret		You're a romantic.
walter		Damn right! A wistful shrug. He chugs his glass.
walter		Of course, walkin' away from the bourgeois scene wasn't a snap. I had to quit my job. Leave my wife. These choices aren't easy... She stares at her wine.
margaret		I've never acted freely. I was the daughter. The wife. The mother...
walter		You shouldn't knock your work. I'd give an eyetooth to have your talent. Margaret is taken aback. He's absolutely sincere.
walter		You can look into someone and capture them on canvas! You paint people!  I can only paint -- things. My street scenes are charming... but at the end of the day, it's just a collection of sidewalks and buildings. Walter goes silent. He has revealed his fears.
margaret		Walter, I'd bet you could paint anything.
margaret		This is moving fast. You're my first date in a long time... Neither of them speaks. The tension builds -- There is a spark between them...
margaret		Sweetie, could you stop fidgeting?
jane		Mother, after all this time, you MUST know what my face looks like. Margaret winces. Walter laughs. She gets busy, penciling in LARGE OVAL EYES. Then -- quick marks for the mouth and nose. Impatient, Jane spies on Walter's canvas.
jane		Hey! Your canvas is blank!
walter		Er, you can't rush inspiration --
margaret		Jane! Don't bother Mr. Keane. You know creativity has to well up from the inside...
walter		Don't worry. She's not bothering me...! Walter leaves Jane. He points at Margaret's canvas.
walter		There's something I gotta ask you. What's with the big crazy eyes...?
margaret		I believe things can be seen in eyes. They're the windows of the soul --
walter		Yeah, but, c'mon! You draw 'em like pancakes! I mean, they're WAY out of proportion! He's having fun, but she remains serious.
margaret		Eyes are how I express my emotions. That's how I've always drawn them.
voice		Walter? Hey -- Walt! Walter spins, startled. A FRIENDLY GUY in a suit strolls up.
friendly guy		I thought that was you!
friendly guy		Boy, I'm glad to see you! Have we heard back from the city, on that setback? My guys really need the variance, for the first floor retail. Walter is mortified. He turns away from Margaret.
walter		Um... we should hear from Permits by Thursday.
friendly guy		Yeah? Well that's terrif'! I'll tell the architects! Pleased, the guy cheerily strides away.
margaret		What was that??
walter		I'm in commercial real estate. A stunned beat.
margaret		You're a -- Realtor?
margaret		And you're... ashamed?
walter		Of course! Any blockhead can arrange a sublet!
jane		A-hem!
on margaret		She turns, startled. Feeling guilty, Margaret rushes from Walter. Busying herself, she skims through the MAIL. Jane shakes her head and marches out. Margaret flips through envelopes -- until one stops her. On edge, she slowly removes an official DOCUMENT. She scans it... and her face drops. Crushed. Something terrible... Walter is worried.
walter		What's wrong...?
walter		You're a perfect mother.
margaret		He told the court Jane doesn't have a proper home. It's beyond my abilities as a single woman... Margaret trails off, shaken. Walter gulps unsurely. Then, he takes her in his arms. We
walter		Marry me.
walter		 I know it makes no sense!
walter		Margaret, I'm on my knee! C'mon, whatdya say? Let's get married! We can be in Hawaii by the weekend.
margaret		"Hawaii"? M-marriage?
margaret		You're right... this is paradise. Only God could make those colors.
walter		I knew you'd love it.
margaret		Oh, can't we stay here forever??
walter		Well, I don't know about forever. But maybe... I can arrange another week.
margaret		This is a waterfall... the air was so fresh you could taste it. Here's an ancient altar... that statue is Kane, the god of creation. I said a prayer to him. Oh! Here's Walter and Janie, building a sandcastle -- Dee-Ann raises an eyebrow.
margaret		You're talking about my husband!
margaret		I'm not naive.  Well, I am naive. But I know the man I'm marrying. Walter can act rash... but he's a good provider. And he's wonderful with Jane.
margaret		"You are on the threshold of untold success."
ruben		What's brilliant about the composition is its spontaneity. The image has no visual center of attention.
fancy lady		It's quite gestural.
ruben		Oh definitely! Strongly influenced by the tachistes.
fancy lady		I heard Tab Hunter was in here, looking at one.
ruben		Well... I'm not allowed to say... He NODS HIS HEAD up-and-down: Yes, you're right.
outside		A car backfires. Ruben turns -- and winces.
ruben		Oh Christ, don't come in here. Please don't come in here... The door SLAMS. Walter loudly barges in.
walter		Ruben, good day! Do you got a minute?
ruben		Walter. In polite society, the word is "appointment."
fancy lady		 Uh, I could come back later... She anxiously hurries for the door. Ruben fumes. Walter ignores it all and starts laying out his wares. First, the Parisian street scenes, one after another...
walter		You're gonna love my stuff today.
ruben		Haven't I seen that one before?
walter		Nah! That was painted in the Fifth Arrondissement. This is the Sixth Arrondissement!
walter		It's all up here. (beat; a sentimental
ruben		Well, it's not going up here.
ruben		Yes it IS!
walter		Would they want... this?
walter		No... they're my wife's. Fascinated, Ruben glances through Margaret's oils. Canvas after canvas of sad kiddies against gray, bleak backgrounds.
ruben		Why are their eyes so big?! They're like big stale jellybeans.
walter		So... what do you say? Ruben looks up, amazed. Walter seems oblivious.
ruben		I say, NO! It's not art.
ruben		It's like the back of a magazine! "Draw the turtle! Send in a nickel and win the Big Contest!"
walter		How dare you! Lots of people would like this.
ruben		Well, nobody who's walking through the door of this gallery!
walter		We'll never break in...! Because there's a CABAL. A secret society of gallery owners and critics, who get together for Sunday brunch in Sausalito, deciding what's "cool."
margaret		I think people buy art because it touches them --
walter		Heh! You're livin' in fairy land! People don't get to discover a thing. They buy art, because it's in the right place at the right time. O.s., MUSIC BUILDS. Muddled, Walter turns. He looks -- and then -- his eyes light up. He is getting an idea...
onstage		The band speeds to a climax, the percussion throbbing. Then, a final, crazed note. BAM!! The crowd APPLAUDS. The club's owner, ENRICO BANDUCCI, bounds on stage. Banducci is a theatrical, natty Italian guy with a skinny moustache and loud personality. He grabs a mike.
banducci		Give it up for Cal Tjader! That set was HUMMIN'! Al-aright, be sure to stick around for the one a.m. show! The house lights come up. Banducci hops down, greeting guests, making his way out -- when Walter glides up.
walter		Hey, Banducci. I love the music tonight. It's a gas.
banducci		Oh. Thanks, thanks.
walter		I'm Walter Keane. I'm a painter.
banducci		Really? Hm...! Maybe you're right. What color were you thinking? Huh? Walter holds his composure.
walter		No -- I'm an artist. I used to be based on the Left Bank. But now I've relocated to the "States," and I'm looking for an... exhibition venue. Beat. Banducci frowns.
banducci		I like my club the way it is. Your stuff's so hot, go put it in a museum.
walter		Okay! I respect that. You're a businessman, not a charity! So how 'bout if I, uh... rented your walls? Hm?! Banducci raises an eyebrow.
walter		Yes! The paintings are available for public viewing daily, from 7 to 3!  Maggie! It's promotion time! We gotta lay the racket! Margaret puts on a smock, a bit dumbfounded. Walter spatters some paint on his shirt. He grins, then holds up his brush and SIGNS the painting: "W. KEANE" Margaret forces a "cheese" smile, with her Waif. FLASH! The camera pops.
walter		Ah, beautiful! An art lover! Yes sir, how may I help you?
tipsy lady		Look at that child. She's so sad.
tipsy man		Is she poor..?
tipsy lady		She's forgotten! It just makes me want to cry.  Are you "Keane"? Walter lifts his head from the table.
walter		Yeah.
tipsy lady		Well you're a hell of a painter. Walter squints, confused, then beams. Joy! Happiness bursting like a little child.
walter		Why, thank you...! Thank you so much!
tipsy lady		Your work is very powerful. There's so much emotion in those eyes. OUCH! Walter's smile collapses.
tipsy lady		Is something wrong?
tipsy man		 Oh, I get it...! The artist doesn't wanna part with his favorite piece... The man winks, then pulls out a WAD OF BILLS. Walter stares morosely.
banducci		Hello, Picasso! Nice crowd, eh?
banducci		Hey, it's prime thoroughfare! People drink, they gotta relieve themselves.
walter		It's INSULTING! When people see art, they shouldn't think of SHIT!
margaret		I've never posted bail before. Silence. He has no idea what to say. His aplomb crumbles.
walter		I'm -- I'm sorry. Banducci... laughed at our work. ...So I socked him.
margaret		Since when are you thin-skinned? Artists have to handle criticism.
walter		You're right! I know. But... I was already in a bad place. I'd had a couple... and earlier...
margaret		I don't understand. Why would you do such a thing?!
walter		It was a misunderstanding. And then, I didn't want to jinx the sale.
margaret		Don't ever do it again.
walter		Don't give me a hard time. I'm just grabbing my stuff... Across the packed room, he spots Banducci with a black eye. Walter halts, uncertain. A bristling tension... Until -- Banducci suddenly rushes and GRABS him! Walter flails, freaked. Banducci DRAGS him into a back kitchen --
banducci		Can you believe this? We're sold out, and I don't even have a headliner!!
banducci		Dope, we made the front page!! People are here, cause they wanna see the sappy paintings that made grown men fight!! A moment of discombobulation... until -- Walter slowly grins.
walter		I'll see you in COURT, you son of a bitch! I'm suing you for assault! Slander! False arrest!! Banducci storms away. Walter shudders, "upset." CUSTOMERS peer at him... then at the paintings. Curious, they migrate that way...
dick		Yes sir! Whew. That was quite a load of horseshit you gents were layin' out there.
dick		Hey pal, don't lose any sleep. I eat this stuff with a spoon! It gives me something to type about, in my column.
walter		 I thought you only did celebrities.
dick		Well, Banducci's famous -- and you hit him! So you're a celebrity, once- removed.
walter		Huh? Uh, sure -- Dick smoothly drags him to the bar. Dick waves the bartender.
dick		Gary! I'll have a Ward Eight, in a frosted high boy. My friend'll have the same.  So! Walter, tell me about your work --
walter		Well, when I was in Paris...
dick		Jesus, not those! I mean the little hobo kids. What?! Walter frowns, peeved. He considers this indignity... then decides to stomach it. He smiles fakely, effusively.
walter		What do you wanna know...?!
walter		Ding-a-ling! Wake up, we're a HIT! Margaret rolls over, groggy. Walter jumps on the bed, grinning. He tosses her a HANDFUL OF MONEY.
walter		What a night! I sold out all your Big Eyes!! She rubs her eyes, amazed.
margaret		There must be two-hundred dollars...
walter		They adore you! Cause of that article, the joint was PACKED. And then, a famous journalist showed up, and -- I need more paintings! Now! He hungrily KISSES her. She laughs.
margaret		Walter, they take at least a week. There's layering, shading --
walter		Of course! But, this is opportunity! Ah, we're gonna make a crackerjack team: Me schmoozing up the club, while you're back here, doing what you love! She stares at him -- then smiles. MUSIC...
margaret		Mrs. Cava, I'm sorry to bother you so late... but would you mind watching Jane?
walter		...yeah, eyes are powerful. A poet said they're the windows of the soul. Margaret smiles, touched. She comes closer....
groupie		They hold so much feeling.
walter		You got it! That's why I paint 'em so big.
walter		If you like this style, I'm working on a few new pieces. I've got a little blonde girl in a blue dress that'll tear your heart out.
margaret		Walter...? He spins -- shocked at her presence.
walter		Baby!
margaret		Why are you lying? For once, Walter has no answer. She bores in, emotions racing. Confused. Hurt.
margaret		You're taking credit for something that isn't yours. He looks ill. Wheels spinning, looking for an out --
walter		I was... trying to close the deal --
margaret		Those children are part of my being!
walter		I'm just a salesman! You know, buyers pay more if they meet the painter --
margaret		They couldn't meet me, because you told me to stay home!!
walter		Shh, QUIET! He grabs her, pulling her behind a curtain. He's desperate.
walter		Don't blow this! Look, we're makin' money! Your pocket, my pocket? What's the difference?!
walter		Not all all! But it's not about ego! You wanna say you did the street scenes? Fine! I don't care! Say a monkey painted it! She breaks into tears, sobbing.
margaret		I'm glad you can dash off your pieces without any emotional connection...!
walter		Ah, honey! I just wanna share them with the world!
walter		Hey. Who is that remarkably handsome and confident man?
banducci		That's Dino Olivetti -- as in Olivetti typewriters.
european blonde		Mr. Olivetti is enchanted with the painting. He would like to know... who is the artist?
walter		I am! Walter swoops over and grabs Olivetti in a hearty clasp.
walter		It's a delight to meet you, Signore! Buon giorno! Have you been an art lover for long..? We move in tight on MARGARET, as the SOUND DIALS DOWN.
walter's voice		I call that piece "The Waif." Isn't it striking? With its juxtaposition of girl, cat, and stairs... and its almost Flemish use of underpigment... The SOUND dims... then goes SILENT. Margaret stares in shock, unmoving. Time seems to stop. She is frozen in grief. Until --
walter's voice		Baby! Baby! Can you believe it?!!
minutes later		Time has passed. Walter happily clutches Margaret.
walter		We made five grand!! Five THOUSAND dollars...!!!
margaret		Don't you mean... one of your good ones?
walter		No. No no! One of -- OUR good ones.  Look at those zeroes! We've hit the big time! We are now hanging in the collection of Italian industrialist Dino Olivetti! With his patronage comes credibility! And with credibility comes RESPECT! Margaret stares at the check in her hands. At all the zeroes.
margaret		What about... honesty?
walter		Aw c'mon! The paintings say "Keane"! I'm Keane, you're Keane. From now on, we are one and the same. Walter pulls her tight. She doesn't resist.
walter		On behalf of the children of the world, we present this painting to Mayor Christopher!
walter		In the interest of peace through culture, we donate this painting to the people of Russia!
dick		The Purple Onion. 9:30. Joan Crawford has a dinner reservation.
walter		Miss Crawford! In recognition of your cinematic craft, we bestow this painting, "The Lion and the Child"!
walter		Joan said "Marvelous"! MARVELOUS! That's worth more than 1000 critics!  Hey, maybe she'll come to our opening.
margaret		But... isn't it strange? Artists get shown. They don't build their own galleries.
walter		Says who?! Like John Q. Public cares? He's FED UP with abstract neoformalism! She responds -- but he sexily puts his finger to her mouth.
walter		He digs real art. Your art! It's beautiful. You're beautiful... Walter starts rubbing against her, dancing sensually. She laughs, embarrassed, her wet paint brushes smearing his chest. She relents and relaxes. They dance around...
walter		Ruben's gonna choke when he sees this! Little Jane tiredly glues another poster. She yawns.
jane		I remember when Momma painted that. Huh? Suddenly, Margaret freezes. She hadn't anticipated this. Margaret looks to Walter. He stares back, waiting.
margaret		Are you -- sure? That was a long time ago.
jane		Sure I'm sure! It was in our old apartment, and you had me sit on a stool in the kitchen --
jane		No, Mother did! Look! I'm wearing my blue dress.
margaret		L-lots of girls have that dress... Margaret trails off, sickened. Not knowing how to lie. Walter takes charge. He kneels, then smiles gently at Jane.
walter		You have a good eye, sweetie. I painted it, but I was trying to mimic your mother's style. You know, the style she USED to paint in.
jane		Well you did a really good job.
margaret		Hello. I've -- never really done this before. I'm not sure how you...
priest's voice		No, no! Please. We don't chase people away.
margaret		I lied to my child. Pause.
priest's voice		Why would you do that?
margaret		My husband... he pressured me into doing it.
priest's voice		Is your husband that kind of person?
margaret		Ummm, no. I don't think of him that way. I mean, he likes to tell stories... maybe he exaggerates a little... but he's a good man.
priest's voice		But what of the child? Will this lie bring harm to her?
margaret		"Harm"?? Oh! Not at all.
priest's voice		Well, the modern world is a complicated place.
margaret		N-no. That's not what --
priest's voice		It sounds like your husband is trying to make the best of an imperfect situation.
hipster lady		I think it's creepy, maudlin and amateurish.
hipster man		Exactly. I love it. We move in tight on the painting. Underneath is a tag: "BEDTIME, by WALTER KEANE. Oil on canvas." We drift along, to another painting: "CALICO CAT, by WALTER KEANE." Then, another: "IN THE GARDEN, by WALTER KEANE." Every painting is now by Walter Keane. We move along... finding the Tipsy Man chatting up Dick.
tipsy man		We got in early. We own three.
margaret		Well... he's more established.
margaret		Thanks for coming. Margaret grabs a drink and hurries away. Dee-Ann stands there, irked. Margaret cuts over to Walter. We MOVE IN TIGHT ON THE COUPLE. He grins and grabs her.
walter		Ah, my sweet! Are you enjoying the scene? 
tipsy man		Your husband's quite a talent.
margaret		I don't... know.
at walter		A NOSY GUY corners him in front of a painted child.
nosy guy		I'm curious about your technique. How long did that piece take to execute?
walter		That? Oh, wow. Probably... months. First the thinking, the sketching, and then time with just me and the oils.
nosy guy		"Oils"? But isn't that acrylic...? Huh? Walter glances at the painting, startled.
walter		Oh --! You mean that painting! Uhh, sorry! It's like a jumble of ideas, rattling around in my brain! Beat.
nosy guy		So where do you get your ideas?
walter		What do you mean?
nosy guy		I mean --  Why are they... images of children? Yikes. Walter starts to sweat. He didn't think this through.
walter		Well, er, I've just always loved kids. Though mostly I was influenced by my darling daughter... An odd beat.
walter		I remember when she was a baby... Walter gets a far-off look.
walter		Yeah. Cute little thing. I'd stare into those big orbs. Sometimes I'd get out my Brownie and snap a photo... but... that's not subjective. You know? It doesn't capture your feelings. So that's when I started painting her... We hold on Walter, unsure where reality begins and ends...
jane		Mom! I wanna come in.
jane		 Let me in! What are you doing in there? Why's the door always locked?
walter		Janie, sweetie, you need to respect your mother's privacy. Sometimes grownups need alone time.
walter		Whew! Out of this world...!
walter		Ah, Jane's grand! She's eating ice cream! She has new shoes. She has a college fund. Beat.
margaret		Maybe I'm lightheaded from the turpentine. I've been in here all day.
walter		Well I don't want you feeling like a prisoner. Take a break! Walter glances at one PAINTING -- then does a take.
walter		Is that a tear...? You've gone deep! Margaret bites her fingers, worried.
margaret		Do you -- like it?
walter		I love it! ...How'd you get the eyes so lifelike? Is it the highlights?
walter		I owe you an apology. I was initially dismissive of your kids, those emotion- wrenching blobs of humanity... but they have a real strength.
walter		I'm trying! Ah, you know me. See -- this is why I need your help! I want to go on tv, to defend our art.
margaret		You're going to be on television?!
walter		Yes! But... what will I say??
margaret		Maybe you have an unhealthy obsession with little girls.
walter		Cute.
walter		Funny! Keep 'em coming! You're a regular Steve Allen. You want heat this winter? Help me out!
margaret		Walter... art is personal. Walter picks up a picture of TWO LITTLE GIRLS IN TUTUS. He stares, perplexed.
walter		What would make a grown man paint a picture like this?! No answer. He thinks of stories, wheels spinning.
walter		I grew up, surrounded by six sisters.
margaret		What about your Paris street scenes? Why do you paint those?
walter		Well, because... I lived it! I experienced it!
margaret		 And was it really all sun-dappled streets and flower vendors? Huh? Walter stares off at the Waifs. They peer out from broken windows... chain-link fences... And then -- he gets it.
walter		Well -- NO! Of course not. It was after the War. There was destruction everywhere...
walter		Good afternoon! Delighted!  How many sales today?
blonde clerk		"Sales?" None with this crowd. Walter's smile drops, surprised.
blonde clerk		These people are looky-loos! They can't afford the paintings. But we gave away a heap of posters! Huh? Walter peers, baffled. Suddenly -- a loud FRWWIPPPP! Walter whirls, startled. Outside, two GIRLS tear a big poster off the front window. Walter's eyes widen. Slowly, he turns back. At the counter, FOLKS and KIDS are grabbing free posters from a box. Walter stares. Processing this. And then... being struck by an idea of absolute genius...
walter's voice		And then... we could sell it anywhere!! EVERYWHERE! 60's-style MADISON AVENUE GRAPHICS: A still of a HARDWARE STORE. Mops, light bulbs, then -- BING! -- framed KEANES. A PHARMACY. Aspirin, candy bars -- BING! -- framed KEANES. A GAS STATION. Tires, motor oil, and -- BING! -- KEANES.
later		Margaret rabidly paints. Spurting globs of color. The woman is blonde, almond eyes cool, lips curled with mystery... Margaret glances in a mirror. It's a self-portrait. It's Margaret, aloof. Alone at a table. Suddenly the door opens. Margaret GASPS, startled, and spins the canvas away. Walter barges in, dressed like a million. He HALTS -- making a sour face.
walter		Whew! Something smells in here. You should open a window. Margaret blinks, a bit dazed.
margaret		What time is it?
walter		I dunno. 6:30, 7? ...Didn't Janie get dinner? Margaret shrugs. Walter leans in.
walter		When's the last time you washed your hair?
margaret		I've been... busy.
walter		 What do you got back there? Lemme see.
margaret		No --! It's just... something I'm working on. It's not for the world. Walter gives her a funny look.
walter		"The world"? Baby, it's me! (stepping forward, a bit
margaret		No, please! Walter, it's -- personal.
walter		It's a completely different style.
margaret		Yes it is.
margaret		It's a self-portrait. Beat.
walter		How am I gonna explain that? She shifts about.
margaret		I thought... maybe... I could sign it myself. Hmm. Walter's eyes narrow.
walter		That seems a bit confusing. "Keane" means me.
margaret		Yes, I know... but... when people ask me if I paint, I don't know what to answer! I just want the pride of being able to say -- that's mine. Walter's wheels are ratcheting.
walter		Who'd you tell about the Big Eyes?
margaret		Nobody!
margaret		No! NOBODY saw it!
walter		You tell anybody, the empire COLLAPSES! Do you wanna give back the money? We've committed FRAUD!
margaret		I KNOW! My God! I live with this every minute of my life!
walter		Janie thinks I'm in here, painting.
margaret		C'mon! You haven't picked up a brush in months!  We used to paint together! Easels next to each other, side-by-side --
walter		That was the honeymoon period! Margaret breaks into tears. Walter tenses.
walter		Jesus, you're so fragile.
margaret		I've kept my end of the bargain! I've never told!  Please! Just let me have this! Walter recoils, unable to take this. He relents.
dick		So you're now called "The Painting Keanes"?
walter		Yep! Walter and his girls! With galleries in three cities!
dick		I had no idea Margaret painted.
walter		Yeah, we don't talk about it. Sadly, people don't buy lady art.
walter		The bar's over there. Dick goes to get a refill. Walter shoots Margaret a look.
walter		Yeah, Margaret's a superb artist, in her own way. I even steal a few tips from her, now and then!
dick		True true. So Margaret, where do you get your ideas?
margaret		 Oh... from the world around me. And I love Modigliani's use of line.
dick		ModiWHAT? The Italian joint?
walter		Oh, for Christ's sake, Margaret! Dick writes a gossip column --
walter		What a talent! Look at these Keanes! If you cut open our veins, we bleed oil! Er -- turpentine.
jane		Who's that?
walter		Ah! A little treat! The fourth member of the Painting Keanes! Margaret and Jane turn, confused. Walter whips open
walter		Lily, honey, how are you?! He gives her a giant hug. She responds stiffly -- a girl who doesn't see her father too often.
lily		I'm fine, Dad. I lost a tooth.
walter		Really? Did you get in a fight?
walter		Well is the tooth fairy somethin' I gotta deal with, or did your mother already handle it?
walter		Good! Good good! Well, just go throw your stuff in the kids' room, then you can come join the fun! Lily toddles out.
dick		Walter... you never told me you had another daughter.
walter		Didn't I? Sure. Lil's from my first marriage. Margaret struggles to hold her rage. Disoriented...
margaret		Walter?
margaret		What is going on here??!
walter		That's Lily. I'm sure I mentioned her --
margaret		No you didn't.
margaret		Did she just move in??
walter		No! Her mom's just going to Vegas for the weekend.
margaret		How can you keep something so big a secret???
walter		She's a sweet girl.
walter		I put up with your daughter. I never said a peep. Margaret's jaw drops.
margaret		I'm gonna pretend you didn't say that.
walter		I'm sorry. Sorry! Please... let's just try to get through this.
lily		Dad told me you had a bunk bed.
jane		Take the bed. I can sleep on the
lily		No, that's not fair! The floor's fine for me. Jane smiles nervously. She stares at this new girl.
jane		Do you live far away?
lily		I guess... about a twenty minute drive.
jane		But you never see Walter?
lily		No, I see him all the time! He comes up and visits every week. Jane is taken aback. Lily sees this.
lily		Doesn't he talk about me?
jane		Does he talk about me?
lily		She's pretty. She drives a Buick. She cries a lot.
jane		Yeah, mine's the same.
jane		I have some peanut butter hidden in my sock drawer. Do you wanna eat it? Lily smiles: Sure. Jane opens a drawer and removes a jar of Skippy. The two girls sit on the floor, happily eating the peanut butter with their fingers.
walter		Yeah, Walter Keane and Gauguin have a lot in common. They both walked away from successful careers to travel the globe, live on a boat... We move... finding Margaret alone in a small ANNEX. It displays a few of her sad blondes, alongside Jane and Lily's paintings of flowers and Mr. Potato-Head. Margaret sits, seeming like an adult at the children's table. An urbane RICH MAN glides by... and is taken with one of Margaret's nubile blondes. He gazes at the lounging figure. Margaret sits up. Alert, pleased with his interest. She tingles. Then, happily excited, unable to hold it in:
margaret		I painted it!
rich man		Really?
rich man		"MDH"? You're so... mysterioso.
margaret		Yes, we don't use my name, since people don't take women's art seriously.
margaret		Luckily, my maiden name is Margaret Doris Hawkins! "M" is the 13th letter of the alphabet, "D" is 4, "H" 8! If you add up 1 and 3 in 13, that gives you 4, making 4 plus 4 plus 8 equals 16, then 1 plus 6 equals seven! The man's head is spinning. He's lost all interest. Across the room, Walter sees this debacle. He marches over.
walter		Psst! Maggie! Can I have a second?  Good grief! What the hell are you babbling about?! Long division?? Could you please help the world and shut your mouth? You want just one number in his head: The sales price! Her face drops, hurt. Acquiescing.
watching this		Two SNOBBY ARTISTS smirk and GROAN at this scene.
ruben		Christ. It's a movement.
margaret		Rembrandt, shush! In the foyer, Margaret opens the front door. And standing there is Dee-Ann. Dazzled. She laughs with surprise.
margaret		Yeah. That driveway is long.  Honestly, I can't believe I live here. Dee-Ann glides in -- then freezes, agape.
margaret		I know! Two acres, a pool, five
margaret		What?
margaret		I know. North Beach is 30 miles, but
margaret		Oh, please! She's Walter's friend.  He brings people by... the Beach Boys were here. But, it's pretty isolated. Dee-Ann goes silent. Margaret seems dwarfed by the house.
margaret		Jane has nice friends. Sometimes I pick them up at the junior high, and we all get pizza.
margaret		Good! I'll whip us up two gin fizzes. Margaret forces a smile and scurries behind a giant curved wet bar. She pulls out ingredients: Gin, lemon juice, soda...
margaret		When we moved in, I thought a wet bar was extravagant... but it's surprising how much use you can get out of it. Dee-Ann watches the drinkmaking.
margaret		He couldn't be happier. He has everything he ever dreamed of.
margaret		No --! You can't go in --
margaret		Dee-Ann, please! STOP -- Margaret rushes to block her -- but Dee-Ann pushes open the door, revealing...
margaret		W-Walter paints in here too. Hmm. Dee-Ann walks about, examining the canvases. Then, her gaze settles on the Big Eye that Margaret was working on. Below the easel is the wet brush on the open jar of paint. Margaret sucks in her breath. Dee-Ann sees this.
wide		Both women startle. FOOTSTEPS. Then... Walter strides in! Margaret's eyes pop. Walter's pop even bigger. He glares at the ladies.
walter		What the hell's going on here?!!
walter		You KNOW I don't like anyone seeing my work before it's done! Walter rushes to the Waif, then for show grabs up the wet brush and quickly starts to "finish" the painting. Suddenly -- an odd expression crosses his face. He eyeballs the canvas, realizing he doesn't know what to do. A furtive glance. Then, unbowed, he hastily dips the brush and slaps a little black onto the shaded background. Walter spins, victorious.
walter		There!
walter		You and your whole non-representational crowd are FRAUDS!!
walter		Get outta my house! My big house!
outside		Dee-Ann GUNS the engine and squeals away. The car peels down the very long driveway. Margaret and Walter watch the car disappear into the distance. Without looking over, Walter speaks.
walter		I don't want her ever invited here again. Margaret nods, terribly sad.
margaret		I won't.
jane		Go, Rembrandt! Get the ball! She tumbles, and Rembrandt licks her ear. She giggles.
margaret		Okay, honey. I have to go work.
jane		Can I come?  No. I can never come. No! I shouldn't even ask. Jane glares glumly. Margaret peers hopelessly at her daughter... then goes inside.
margaret		Where did you appear from? Didn't you hear? No visitors! Rembrandt wags his tail, his little eyes bright. Margaret peers.
margaret		Is this what it's come to? You're the only living soul I can tell my secret?  It's TRUE! I did every single one -- She gestures, then catches sight of a Walter street scene.
margaret		Well, every one except that street scene.
margaret		No you don't! It's nice to have company, but that sofa is new.  Let's find you some carpet to lay on.
margaret		I think there's a scrap back here... She rummages, sliding the junk aside. In back is a TATTERED
margaret		Well what's this? Margaret swings the bulb closer. The crate is covered with SHIPPING INSTRUCTIONS and international markings. Margaret's interest is piqued. She tugs at the lid, pulling it off. Revealing inside a STACK OF STREET SCENE PAINTINGS. Ten or fifteen of Walter's canvases. Or so it seems.
later		2:30 a.m. Margaret still stares at the clock. She's stewing. Suddenly, keys in the door. Walter swings in, tanked and full of life. He skids across the marble, humming to himself -- when -- he's startled by his wife. He jerks.
walter		M-Maggie! What're you doin' up? Margaret glares. Not speaking. He shrugs.
walter		I had a helluva night. Worked three or four clubs.  Stumbled onto some hot gossip: Madame Chiang Kai-shek is coming to town! Straight from Taipei! I think we should present her with a painting -- get Dick to flack it...
margaret		Maybe you should give her one of your street scenes.
margaret		No, Walter. She's a dignitary. Doesn't she deserve a piece that comes straight from you?
walter		Yeah? Maybe you're right. She probably doesn't have a Parisian street scene hanging in her palace. Margaret nods, as if they've settled something. She turns to walk away -- then suddenly SPINS.
margaret		Unless Madame Chiang Kai-shek already has a Cenic.
on walter		He freezes up. Suddenly sober, smacked to reality.
walter		"Cenic"...? Uh, what's that? Margaret stares, eyes sharp.
margaret		Cenic is the name of the artist who did all your early paintings.
walter		Huhhh?  Cenic was my nickname in Paris! All my art school pals loved my scenic views, so they called me "Scenic"! But since those Frogs can't pronounce a hard "e," I became "Cenic." He looks up at her hopefully. But she shakes her head.
margaret		The more you lie, the smaller you seem.
walter		 How DARE you accuse me of lying! I'm proud of my early Cenics!
margaret		Then why do you paint over the name? Walter gasps, floored. Margaret bores in.
margaret		A bit of advice: Don't use a water- base over an oil. It flecks off. Walter cowers.
walter		You sound crazy! For God's sake. You've... you've SEEN me paint!!!!
margaret		No, I haven't.
walter		I studied art in Paris. I went to school at the Beaux-Arts. The Grand Chaumiere. I spent hours in the Louvre, gazing at the greatness of the Masters...
margaret		Walter? He turns. She winces, pained.
margaret		Have you even been to Paris? Walter blanches. He shakes, broken up. He looks away, then staggers to a chair. He falls into it. Trembling. Not able to look her in the eye...
walter		I wanted... I so wanted to be an artist. But -- it just never turned out good. Margaret stares, seething. Then, without comment, she storms away. She SLAMS the door shut. BANG! Walter doesn't move.
margaret		I don't want you sleeping in this room any longer. I -- I can't keep living these lies.
walter		What are you working on?
margaret		A new MDH. Something for me. It's about a woman trapped in an uncaring world. I call it, "Escape." Walter bites his lip, afraid to talk.
walter		I figured out a solution to our problems.
margaret		What?
walter		Teach me.
margaret		And then -- YOU'LL paint them?
walter		Sure! Why not?
walter		Y-you're right!
margaret		If you knew the basics, you wouldn't be at the easel. You have to sketch it first! Walter tightens, feeling stupid. He lets go of the canvas. Margaret stares, deciding. Then, she tosses him a PAD. Walter catches it. Slowly, he crosses over...
walter		So...? What's first?
margaret		I dunno. You tell me. You're the creator. He frowns.
walter		It's a -- Keane.
margaret		Oh, a Keane! How witty.
walter		YEAH YEAH! Point taken. I'm standing here naked and humiliated in front of you. Look... can we just do a crying child? She gazes at him. Fingering her pencil... Trying to jump-start things, he starts to draw a circle --
margaret		How old is the subject?
walter		Huh? C'mon, it's a head --
margaret		It matters! A young child's head is round. An older child's head is oval! He feels pressured. Hand shaking, he draws a crooked circle.
walter		The child is this old!
margaret		NO I'M NOT! Every line is a decision!
later		Walter finally paints. We can't see the canvas, but he's very meticulous. His expression quite earnest. He adds a final flourish... and then... a flicker of pride crosses his face. He smiles.
walter		How's SALES?
redhead clerk		Oh, you know. Mondays -- Walter MUTTERS strangely. He snatches some paper and starts scribbling. Then he runs into the
storage room		Walter agitatedly paces, circling the stacks of PRINTS.
walter		How many posters are back here?
redhead clerk		Exactly? I dunno, 3,000 or --
walter		Does the printer owe us more? Do we owe him??
redhead clerk		Uh, let me --
walter		What about the OILS?! Are there more at the warehouse?
redhead clerk		Mr. Keane, I'd have to make a --
walter		For the LOVE OF MUD! What am I PAYING you for? The girl freezes, rattled. Walter spins, flipping out.
walter		Hypothetical question: If you were a man, would you marry Kim Novak or my wife? What?
walter		Okay! Different question! If I got crippled and had to stop painting, how long before the gallery ran out of inventory and went belly up??
walter		What's it all mean? Why are we put on this earth? A 100 years from now, will people even know we existed...?
walter		It's not even mine! It's one of hers. Aching, he staggers off. Sweating, woozy, he sits at a table. Distracted, he glances down at a newspaper...
walter		This doesn't change anything.
margaret		 I know the truth.
walter		Who cares?! This is all your fault! Maybe it's time to shake things up. Start puttin' my name on the MDH's. Margaret is astonished. A fury crosses her face.
margaret		NO! Absolutely NOT!! I still hate myself for giving you the Waifs!
walter		Quiet! Lower your voice --
margaret		Oh, I'll talk as LOUD AS I WANT --
walter		NO YOU WON'T! Or --
margaret		What??!
walter		If you tell ANYONE, if you squeal, I'll take you out! I -- I know people. Remember Banducci's cousin? The liquor wholesaler? Pause. Margaret breaks into tears.
margaret		You're threatening me...?! Fine, kill me! My God, I've kept our secret for years! I've never once --
walter		Christ, wipe your face! You look a mess.
margaret		What do you want, Walter? Everything with you is calculated. We're back where we had our first date... Walter's eyes widen. We MOVE IN TIGHT on them. He drops his voice. Dead serious.
walter		Look, I don't deny I need you. You're the one with the gift.
margaret		What masterpiece?
walter		Exactly! What have I been missing all this time?! Da Vinci has his Mona Lisa... Renoir has his Boatmen's Lunch... but where's my defining statement?
margaret		You sound insane. Artists don't announce a masterpiece --
walter		Why not?! Didn't Michelangelo know he was hittin' a homer, when he was on his back painting the Sistine Chapel?
margaret		He worked on that for FOUR YEARS!
walter		Posterity, baby...!! She empties her drink.
walter		And here's the best part. It's for Unicef! Unicef is sponsoring the Hall of Education. Aw, we can finally give back to the children of the world!! Margaret stares, wavering...
margaret		It's too big. Why'd you promise them Cinerama size?
walter		Because it has to encompass all children. All races! One hundred stricken faces! Marching to infinity! The ultimate Walter Keane!
walter		Oh, a publisher says it's good timing to put out a coffee table book. You know, classy: "Tomorrow's Masters."
margaret		You're right! Where are your preliminary sketches?? All that time in art school, and somehow we waylaid your youthful experiments! The half- finished charcoals, the struggles...
walter		 I know you're being sarcastic, but these are all good ideas. Berlin war orphans... early self-portraits...
margaret		Get out of here. I'm trying to work. She brusquely spins away, back to the canvas. He shoots her an uncertain, dirty look. What just happened?
jane		Mom, what's for dinner?
margaret		W-what are you doing in here --?
jane		Mom... I know.
margaret		Jane, you don't know anything!! Jane's face tightens. Insulted.
jane		I'm not a child anymore.
canaday		Four... five... SIX pages! Is there something here I'm missing?
canaday		"Will be unveiled in the Grand Pavilion of the Hall of Education... internationally celebrated artist has been selected... will represent the aspirations of children worldwide --"
canaday		And WHO was on the selection committee?
civic leader		Oh! Well there wasn't a "committee," per se. We just had a luncheon with me, Ed, Jerome, Jerome's wife...
walter		Stop. Let us appreciate this moment. This is what we've worked toward our whole lives: Rarified air. Inside this house are the movers and shakers. Kennedys. Rockefellers.
margaret		I was happier selling paintings in the park. He gapes, appalled.
walter		You are one crazy bitch. Walter spins and grandly enters. He grabs two CHAMPAGNES from a server.
walter		So maybe you have problems with the choices we made... but -- c'mon! Wednesday, the World's Fair opens. Thursday, our book goes on sale!
margaret		Friday, I file for divorce.
walter		Aw, why are you always so miserable?
walter		Mrs. Teasdale! Walter Keane. I just want to thank you for hosting this absolutely enchanting soiree. Walter takes the woman's hand. She smiles stiffly, silently horrified. She glances around for help. She catches a SOCIETY MAN's eye, and he hurries over.
society man		Hey, Keane. Have you seen the Times?
walter		Er, no. Honestly, I've been so busy all day preparing for this lovely --
society man		I think you should read the Times. The Man gestures. Perplexed, the Keanes follow him into a
the keanes		stare, then turn pale.
margaret		How could anyone... say something so cruel?
walter		 What do YOU care?! That's MY name being dragged through the mud! Walter CRUSHES the newspaper. He spins on the guy.
walter		Is he here?
society man		Er... yes. Which is perhaps why it would be best for everybody if you -- Walter STORMS out. The guy futilely chases --
canaday		Mr. Keane, this is not the venue. Perhaps you'd like to write a letter to the editor. Walter's throat tightens. He steps right into the guy's face. Women GASP. Tension bristles -- like a fight's about to erupt.
walter		What are you afraid of??
canaday		No. But that doesn't make it art either. Walter shudders. Canaday asserts himself.
canaday		Art should elevate -- not pander! Particularly in a Hall of Education!
canaday		Ugh! That moldy chestnut --
walter		Don't interrupt! You don't know what it's like! To put your emotions out there, naked, for the world to see.
canaday		What emotions?! It's synthetic hack work!  Your "masterpiece" has an infinity of Keanes -- which just makes it an infinity of kitsch! Crazed, Walter grabs a FORK off the buffet. He lunges, like he's about to STAB Canaday!
wide		Women SCREAM. A few MUSCULAR MEN start to break through, to help.
walter		looks around -- then quivers, realizing he's out of control. Shamed, he slowly drops the fork. People breathe a sigh of relief.
margaret		is mortified. This is all too awful. Silent, she watches Walter back out of the party...
walter		What's wrong with lowest common denominators?! That's what this country was built on!! He KNOCKS over a lamp. Crash!
walter		I'm gonna sue EVERYBODY! I'll sue that pansy critic! And the World's Fair! And -- Unicef!
walter		But I can't sue you, can I?  You were the ultimate betrayal! You FAILED me with that painting! Suddenly, he pulls out a BOOK OF MATCHES. He lights a MATCH and waves it sinisterly --
walter		You crossed over from sentimentality to KITSCH! He THROWS the match at them.
jane		Ow!
walter		You like making me look bad?? You enjoy people laughing at me??! He PUNCHES the wall, then tosses the match. Fwoosh!
margaret		Walter! He throws ANOTHER MATCH.
wide		Margaret grabs Jane and starts running. They rush into the blackness. Walter squints woozily, then starts to CHASE --
walter		Lemme in, you BITCHES!!
walter		Ow!
jane		Mom, what are we gonna do??! Margaret thinks.
walter		You got all that paint and turpentine in there? Well I'm gonna burn you up! He pushes the lit match through the KEYHOLE.
walter		You're gonna blow like an atom bomb!
margaret		We're leaving. Determined, Margaret runs to the curtained wall. She whips it aside -- revealing the sliding glass doors.
margaret		I'm sorry I wasn't the mother I could have been. I -- I should have done this years ago...
jane		But where are we going?
margaret		Where we're going, we won't need much.
jane		Really...? Margaret smiles softly. We slowly PUSH IN to her.
margaret		Yes, Hawaii. Because it's paradise. There's flowers, and birds, and beautiful colors.
margaret		Hello?
walter		Boy, you were sure hard to track down. Thought I might never find you...  I'm a little agitated. I got the strangest papers in the mail today. Margaret tries to stay cool.
margaret		It's a decree of legal separation. I would appreciate if you signed it.
walter		Aren't you acting too rash?
margaret		Walter, our marriage is over.
walter		Granted, our romance may have seen its better days. The bloom is off the rose.
margaret		Walter, I want a divorce.
walter		Whew. It hurts to hear you say those words. Silence. He is feigning "hurt feelings." Struggling for a response. Finally, his thoughts sharpen up, smart and shrewd.
walter		I sure hate that it's come to this.
margaret		If that's the price.
walter		Really?!
walter		Uh -- okay. And... then, we have to consider future revenue stream.
margaret		My God, Walter! How much more money do you need?
walter		It's -- the marketplace! I gotta stay fresh. Surely you understand?
margaret		Would you like to go into town? I'm stopping by the post office.
jane		No, I'm gonna surf with the gang. Margaret tightens up.
margaret		Your friends are a bit... wild.
margaret		Y-you know I can't have people over to the house.
jane		That's right! Or they'd see the precious paintings!!
margaret		I'm not interested. She starts to close the door... but they continue.
margaret		I'm not interested in whatever you're selling. The lady glances at Margaret's glass. She smiles gently.
margaret		Sounds like my ex-husband. Margaret laughs. Surprised, the women laugh, too. Margaret peers at them. At their Bible.
margaret		Would you like to come in?
later		The three women sit. Margaret gazes...
margaret		It's been so long since I've been happy. But, I don't even know why I'm telling you... two complete strangers.
margaret		So you're -- Jehovah's Witnesses?
margaret		I've explored so many religions. But they all had their flaws...
margaret		And how do you know...?
margaret		What does that mean, exactly?
margaret		It says here a worshiper of Jehovah must be honest in all things. Jane snorts.
jane		I just can't believe you let people in the house.
margaret		I have nothing to hide!
hippie chick		Shit, this is crazy! All these copies... you're like Warhol!
walter		Nah, Warhol's like me. That fruitfly stole my act! "The Factory"? I had a factory before he had a soup can! The girls scrunch their faces, lost. Then -- DING-DONG! Walter peeks out the window, then grins.
walter		Ah! It's my art supplies.
jehovah's witnesses		"Tremble not before your foe, Let all lovers of truth know! That my reigning Son, Christ Jesus, From the heav'ns has cast the foe. Soon will bind the Devil, Satan, Letting all his victims go!" Margaret and Jane are singing happily.
margaret		No... Big Lolo. Everything you just said is false. Margaret takes a deep breath. Working up her courage.
margaret		One: Walter is no longer my husband.  And Two: He's not... a painter. Margaret exhales. The D.J. is confused. He checks his notes.
margaret		No. Though he's been taking credit for ten years.
canaday		You have got to be kidding!
ruben		Who would WANT credit?!
walter		Holy mother of GOD! Walter JERKS UP -- feral -- like an animal sensing danger. He whirls and looks around. Paranoia ratcheting. Is everybody staring at him? Walter starts shaking in horror. Then -- he jumps and BOLTS OUT.
walter		Margaret's gone berserk! You gotta help me! I need a story, a wire story -- national! -- to calm things down. Dick peers shrewdly.
dick		I don't know... Walter. What she has said is pretty inflammatory.
walter		But it's nuts! It doesn't even make sense. When I was studying art at the Beaux Arts in Paris, she was still a kid in Tennessee! Dick reacts. Walter whips out the "Tomorrow's Master's" BOOK.
walter		Look! These are my early sketches. (he flips pages, like a
walter		Exactly! It's impossible! We didn't meet for another nine years! After she busted her first marriage.
dick		I-I, but... why would Maggie do this?
walter		She's unhinged! She left me and moved into the jungle. She fell in with a bunch of religious zealots:
dick		I really don't know much about them...
walter		Oh! These people are gone! Solid gone! They don't celebrate Christmas, they can't salute the flag... they won't even let Janie go to the prom! Dick is startled.
margaret		He made me sound crazy!!
margaret		But how can I?! He claims I copied HIM! That he taught ME how to paint!  "She used a slide projector to trace my work and fill in the colors."
jane		Hey. Is Jehovah okay with suing??
walter		I'm angry as hell! But I'm lucky to have the mighty Gannett News Company watching my back. I expect to have this whole trial dismissed by noon.
gannett lawyer		Margaret Keane is a public figure. And as such, she has to prove that our newspapers published statements, aware of probable falsity.
judge		How many years back do these go?
gannett lawyer		Mrs. Keane has been making these statements since 1958. Beat.
judge		This is a very strange case. These paintings hang in museums all over the world, attributed to Mr. Keane. And regardless of the truth, Mrs. Keane has contributed immeasurably to the confusion... The Judge stares off... then makes a decision.
judge		It seems impossible that Gannett's actions would ever meet the legal standard for libel. So -- the charge against them is dismissed.
wide		The Lawyer smiles, relieved.
gannett lawyer		Thank you, Your Honor!
gannett lawyer		Good luck, Keane.
walter		"Good luck"? W-where the hell are you going?!
gannett lawyer		We were charged with libel. You're charged with slander.
judge		Mr. Keane, you appear to be without counsel. Would you like a postponement, in order to get your affairs in order? Walter glances over at Margaret. She stifles a laugh. He glares daggers. Then, cocksure, foolhardy, he jumps to his feet.
walter		I've always taken care of myself, Your Honor. And I don't need a bunch of rent-a-suits to defend my good name!
walter		I'm the sole creator of my art. This is my total life. My contribution to the world --
judge		Mr. KEANE! I've told you, you must ask the witness questions! If you're acting as your own attorney, you cannot make statements at this time.
walter		Oh. Right! Ah, sorry, Your Honor.
walter		Mrs. Keane. It seems impossible that you'd expect anybody to swallow your fantastic story --
walter		Mrs. Keane. You seem like a lucid woman. Reasonably intelligent... So how could you possibly have gone along with such a far-out scheme?
margaret		I was forced into it. You had -- She stops, bothered by this awkwardness. She looks away from Walter, to the Jury instead.
margaret		He had me dominated. He would rant and rave if I didn't do what he wanted. I was afraid. I didn't see any option, so I went along. I felt very bad...
walter		 I want to remind you you are under oath. The Judge SLAMS his fists down, enraged. Walter jumps.
walter		S-sorry. Margaret turns back to the Jury.
margaret		I just gave in. I allowed him to take credit for the big eyes. They reflected all my feelings... and... it was like losing a child...
walter		Hm! It sounds like you've described two different men. One a sadistic ogre... and the other a delightful bon vivant. Margaret stares him in the eyes.
margaret		That's you, Walter. Jekyll and Hyde.
walter		What an outrageous statement! I demand we strike that from the record!
judge		 Overruled!!
margaret		 No! You're outrageous! Constantly criticizing! Wearing me down! Saying I'd be "knocked off" if I ever told the truth!! The Jury GASPS. Walter throws out his hands.
walter		Your HONOR! I ask for a mistrial! Both Keanes starts QUARRELING. The Judge STANDS.
judge		HEY! This is not a domestic squabble! Or -- maybe it is. But the rest of us have no interest in watching you two go at it. Walter calms himself, contrite.
walter		I'm sorry for the emotions. I'm an artist. The Judge stares harshly.
judge		Maybe.
walter		I call as my witness... Mr. Walter Stanley Keane! A strange beat. The Jurors glance at each other. Walter reacts, like he just heard his name. He strides jauntily over to the witness stand. The BAILIFF gives the Judge a weird look. Then, he pulls out a Bible. Walter slaps down his hand.
bailiff		Do you swear to the tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
walter		Mr. Keane. There has been a lot of innuendo and contradictory testimony about the genesis of the "big-eyed waifs." Would you mind clarifying to this court, once and for all, who spawned these paintings? Walter sprints back into the witness stand. He sits, then reacts coyly, as if he's surprised.
walter		Why -- I created the children. Walter starts to stand again -- but the Judge SLAMS his bench.
judge		The choreography is not necessary. Just sit down and testify. Oh. Walter sits, then gathers his thoughts... We slowly PUSH IN. He smiles, wistfully...
walter		I've had a wonderful life. I've been an artist, a world traveler, a friend of untold celebrities...  But when I look back at it all, when I peer into my heart and define what mattered...
walter		...the orphans were clutching the barbed wire. Their bodies lacerated, their fingers scrawny, their eyes big and helpless. Imploring me, begging me... "Do something!"
walter		...and then Miss Joan Crawford walked up to me...
walter		...Kim Novak...
walter		...Liberace...
walter		...Wayne Newton...
walter		Miss Natalie Wood walked up and said, "That is the greatest single painting I have ever seen in my entire life." The Judge is bored out of his mind.
walter		I was born in a small town. My father made upholstery for the automobile
judge		You're done. Walter stops, surprised.
walter		B-but, I'm not finished --
judge		Actually, you are!  I cannot stomach one more wild tangent or shaggy dog tale. You're not testifying -- you're filibustering! The Federal Courts are overburdened enough, without your docket-clogging nonsense.
judge		NO! It's not a mistrial!! In my opinion, there's only one way to clear up this thicket. You are both going to paint. Walter gasps, stunned. All color drains from his face.
bailiff		Awright, bring those easels down. Careful, don't bump anything... watch it with those paint cans, I got some newspaper on the floor down front... The Jury is fascinated. Margaret watches, quite eager. In the gallery, Jane grins. But Walter is horrified. Trying not to tremble.
down front		The Bailiff directs the deputies, setting up TWO EASELS, back to back. On each easel is placed a small square canvas. The Judge addresses the room.
judge		Now, I'm not looking for a masterpiece. I don't know much about these things -- I'm a jurist, not an art critic -- but, is one hour enough? Margaret nods: Sure. Shaking, Walter barely moves his head.
judge		Okay then. You've both been provided with identical supplies... so -- without any further business... Mrs. Keane, Mr. Keane, the court is yours.
wide		Margaret glances at Walter. What will he do? Walter's face is grimly blank. Margaret proceeds. Slowly, she pushes her chair from the table and rises. Walter doesn't move. Margaret walks over to the closest EASEL, then sits. She ties on a smock over her checkered dress.
the jurors		crane their necks, intently curious.
margaret		takes a pencil. She peeks over at Walter -- who's still glued to his seat. His face tight, his expression queasy. Staring off to some faraway place. Margaret looks up at the CLOCK. 3:20. Okay then. Totally calm, in a motion she's done so many times, she focuses on the canvas and starts outlining a Waif. Everybody watches. Effortlessly, she pencils the EYES. They are enormous. The largest orbs she has ever done.
walter		looks ill. Wracked with uncertainty. The Judge turns to him.
judge		Mr. Keane?
margaret		fills in more detail. Ears... nose... then, little fingers clutching a fence. The child is peeking over it, staring right at us...
walter		is melting down. In total crisis...
the jurors		look from Margaret to Walter. Why isn't he moving??
margaret		finishes penciling. She leans back, satisfied with the composition. Then, she reaches for... the PAINT. She unscrews a tube and squirts it on the palette. She rests it on her lap and starts mixing a flesh tone...
the judge		gapes at Walter, befuddled.
walter		feels all eyes on him. He has to do something. Hesitantly, visibly shaking, he rises from the table. Margaret notices this.
judge		Mr. Keane! Are you all right?
walter		No -- it's --
walter		I -- I don't think I'll be able to paint today.
the judge		is astonished.
wide		The courtroom reacts.
margaret		peers at Walter, knowingly. She's not surprised. This was his only way out. A look between them -- and then she cocks a half-smile and turns back to the canvas. She squirts out some white oil paint, then begins painting the eyes.
walter		sinks down in his chair, beaten. All life gone. He stares at the emerging canvas, eyes wide, and we PUSH INTO WALTER'S FACE. He is witnessing the end of his empire... the destruction of everything that makes him who he is. We push in TIGHTER... TIGHTER... until the screen fills with his two eyes.
margaret		Thank you! Thank you so much.
margaret		"Exhibit 224." They all ROAR with laughter. A Reporter does a stand-up:
walter		What a group of idiots... a quagmire of incompetence...
margaret		Oh... it was never about the money. And honestly -- I doubt Walter will even pay.
margaret		I just wanted credit for what I had done. The justice is... I got my art back.
portly lady		Margaret! Could I possibly have your autograph? Margaret looks down -- and realizes the book is Walter's volume of "TOMORROW'S MASTERS" Margaret stares at it in wonder, then quickly signs the cover.
****Dialogues from script :Big_Fish.txt****

edward		I didn't put any stock into such speculation or superstition. All I knew was I'd been trying to catch that fish since I was a boy no bigger than you.  And on the day you were born, that was the day I finally caught him.
edward		Now, I'd tried everything on it: worms, lures, peanut butter, peanut butter-and-cheese. But on that day I had a revelation: if that fish was the ghost of a thief, the usual bait wasn't going to work. I would have to use something he truly desired.
little brave		 Your finger?
edward		Gold.
edward		I tied my ring to the strongest line they made -- strong enough to hold up a bridge, they said, if just for a few minutes -- and I cast upriver.
edward		You can see my predicament. My wedding ring, the symbol of fidelity to my wife, soon to be the mother of my child, was now lost in the gut of an uncatchable fish.
will		 Make him stop.
will's date		What did you do?
edward		I followed that fish up-river and down-river for three days and three nights, until I finally had him boxed in.
edward		With these two hands, I reached in and snatched that fish out of the river. I looked him straight in the eye. And I made a remarkable discovery.
edward		This fish, the Beast. The whole time we were calling it a him, when in fact it was a her. It was fat with eggs, and was going to lay them any day.
edward		Now, I was in a situation. I could gut that fish and get my ring back, but doing so I would be killing the smartest catfish in the Ashton River, soon to be mother of a hundred others.
edward		Did I want to deprive my soon-to-be- born son the chance to catch a fish like this of his own? This lady fish and I, well, we had the same destiny.
sandra		Honey, it's still your night.
edward		Now, you may well ask, since this lady fish wasn't the ghost of a thief, why did it strike so quick on gold when nothing else would attract it?  That was the lesson I learned that day, the day my son was born.
edward		Sometimes, the only way to catch an uncatchable woman is to offer her a wedding ring.
edward		What, a father's not allowed to talk about his son?
will		 I am a footnote in that story. I am the context for your great adventure. Which never happened! Incidentally! You were selling novelty products in Wichita the day I was born.
edward		 Jesus Christ.
will		Friend of yours? Did you help him out of a bind?
edward		Come on, Will. Everyone likes that story.
will		No Dad, they don't. I do not like the story. Not anymore, not after a thousand times. I know all the punchlines, Dad. I can tell them as well as you can.  For one night, one night in your entire life, the universe does not revolve around Edward Bloom. It revolves around me and my wife. How can you not understand that?
edward		 Sorry to embarrass you.
will		You're embarrassing yourself, Dad. You just don't see it.
will		True to form, we never talked about our not talking.
josephine		Allo oui?
josephine		 Yes, he's here.
josephine		It's your mother.
will		 Hi. Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
josephine		It's bad.
will		It's more than they thought. They're going to stop chemo.
josephine		You need to go.
will		Probably tonight.
josephine		I'm going with you.
will		You don't have to.
josephine		 I'm going with you.
will		The one about the witch.
edward		Your mom says I can't tell you that one anymore. You get nightmares.
will		I'm not scared.
edward		Neither was I. At first.
edward		This all happened in the swamp outside of Ashton. Kids weren't supposed to go out in the swamp, on account of the snakes and spiders and quicksand that would swallow you up before you could even scream. But there were five of us out there that night: Me, Ruthie, Wilbur Freely, and the Price Brothers, Don and Zacky.
edward		Not a one of us knew what was in store.
edward		Zacky, turn your flashlight on!
zacky		I don't got any batteries!
don price		Then why'd you bring it?
zacky		I don't want to be in the swamp with a witch and no flashlight.
edward		Is it true she got a glass eye?
wilbur freely		I heard she got it from Gypsies.
edward		What's a Gypsy?
zacky		Your momma's a Gypsy.
don price		Your momma's a bitch.
ruthie		You shouldn't swear. There's ladies present.
don price		Shit.
zacky		Damn.
wilbur freely		Screw.
edward		 Turn off your flashlights! She'll see 'em.
wilbur freely		I hear if you look right at it, you can see how you're gonna die.
edward		That's bull-s-h-i-t, that is. She's not even a real witch.
don price		You're so sure, why don't you go in and get that eye? I heard she keeps it in a box on her nighttable.
don price		Or are you too scared?
edward		I'll go in right now and get that eye.
don price		Then do it.
edward		Fine, I will.
don price		Fine, you do it.
edward		Fine, I'm doing it.
ruthie		Edward, don't!
wilbur freely		She'll make soap out of you!  That's what she does, she makes soap out of people.
edward		 Ma'am, my name is Edward Bloom, and there's some folks'd like to see your eye.
don price		You get the eye?
edward		I brought it.
don price		 Let's see it.
zacky		I saw how I was gonna die. I was old, and I fell.
don price		I wasn't old at all.
edward		I was thinking about death and all. About seeing how you're gonna die.
edward		I mean, on one hand, if dying was all you thought about, it could kind of screw you up. But it could kind of help you, couldn't it? Because you'd know that everything else you can survive.
edward		I guess I'm saying, I'd like to know.
edward		Huh. That's how I go?
sandra		How did you get here?
will		We swam. The Atlantic, it's not that big really.
sandra		Ruth McHibbon offered to pick you up at the airport.
will		We rented a car.
sandra		 You didn't need to do that. You just didn't.
will		Hi, Mom.
sandra		I'm so glad you're here.
sandra		You shouldn't have flown. But...
josephine		It's good to see you. You look beautiful.
sandra		Thank you. I'll bet you need to --
josephine		Yes.
sandra		Down the hall on the right. The door sticks. You have to really pull it.
will		Is that Dr. Bennett's car?
sandra		He's up with your father.
will		How is he?
sandra		He's impossible. He won't eat. And because he won't eat, he gets weaker. And because he's weaker, he doesn't want to eat.
will		How much time does he have left?
sandra		You don't talk about those things. Not yet.
will		Dr. Bennett. It's good to see you.  My wife, Josephine.
josephine		 To the day.
sandra		You don't think he looks any worse.
will		Can I see him?
sandra		Get him to drink one of these. He won't, but tell him he has to.
will		Dad?
edward		You --  -- are in for a surprise.
will		Am I?
edward		Having a kid changes everything. I mean, there's the diapers and the burping and the midnight feedings...
will		Did you do any of that?
edward		No, but I hear it's terrible. Then you spend years trying to corrupt and mislead this child, fill its head with nonsense and still it turns out perfectly fine.
will		You think I'm up for it?
edward		You learned from the best.
will		Just drink half the can. I'll tell her you drank the whole thing. Everyone wins.
edward		People needn't worry so much. It's not my time yet. This isn't how I go.
will		Really.
edward		Truly. I saw it in The Eye.
will		The Old Lady by the swamp.
edward		She was a witch.
will		No, she was old and probably senile. Maybe schizophrenic.
edward		I saw my death in that eye. And this is not how it happens.
will		So how does it happen?
edward		Surprise ending. Wouldn't want to ruin it for you.
edward		There was this panhandler who used to stop me every morning when I came out of this coffee shop near the office.
will		Okay.
edward		And every day I gave him a quarter. Every day. Then I got sick and was out for a couple of weeks. And when I went back there, you know what he said?
will		What did he say?
edward		You owe me three-fifty.
will		Really.
edward		True story.
will		When did you ever work in an office?
edward		There's a lot you don't know about me.
will		You're right.
edward		Your mother was worried we wouldn't talk again. And look at us. We're talking fine. We're storytellers, both of us. I speak mine out, you write yours down. Same thing.
will		Dad, I'm hoping we can talk about some things while I'm here.
edward		You mean, while I'm here.
will		I'd just like to know the true versions of things. Events. Stories. You.
edward		Your mother hasn't been keeping up the pool. If you wanted to you could...
will		I will.
edward		You know where the chemicals are?
will		I used to do it when you were gone, remember? I used to do it a lot.
edward		I was never much for being at home, Will. It's too confining. And this, here. Being stuck in bed. Dying is the worst thing that ever happened to me.
will		I thought you weren't dying.
edward		I said this isn't how I go. The last part is much more unusual. Trust me on that.
young will		Dr. Bennett says I'm going to have to be home for a week.
edward		That's nothing. I once had to stay in bed for three years.
young will		Did you have chicken pox?
edward		I wish.
young edward		 "Kept in a small bowl, the goldfish will remain small. With more space, the fish can grow double, triple, or quadruple its size."
girl		Edward Bloom!
sharecropper		He ate an entire cornfield!
little girl		He ate my dog!
mayor		I won't have mob violence in this town. Now, has someone tried talking to him?
some farmer		You can't reason with 'im!
shephard		He's a monster!
edward		I'll talk to him. See if I can get him to move on.
mayor		Son, that creature could crush you without trying.
edward		Trust me, he'll have to try.
edward		Hello!
edward		My name is Edward Bloom! I want to talk to you!
edward		I'm not going anywhere until you show yourself.
karl		Why are you here?
edward		So you can eat me. The town decided to send a human sacrifice, and I volunteered.
edward		My arms are a little stringy, but there's some good eating on my legs. I mean, I'd be tempted to eat them myself.  So I guess, just, if you could get it over with quick. Because I'm not much for pain, really.
edward		Look, I can't go back. I'm a human sacrifice. If I go back, everyone will think I'm a coward. And I'd rather be dinner than a coward.
edward		Here, start with my hand. It'll be an appetizer.
karl		I don't want to eat you. I don't want to eat anybody. It's just I get so hungry. I'm too big.
edward		Did you ever think maybe you're not too big? Maybe this town's just too small. I mean, look at it.
edward		Hardly two stories in the whole place. Now I've heard in real cities, they've got buildings so tall you can't even see the tops of 'em.
karl		Really?
edward		Wouldn't lie to you. And they've got all-you-can-eat buffets. You can eat a lot, can't you?
karl		I can.
edward		So why are you wasting your time in a small town? You're a big man. You should be in the big city.
karl		You're just trying to get me to leave, aren't you? That's why they sent you here.
edward		What's your name, Giant?
karl		Karl.
edward		Mine's Edward. And truthfully, I do want you to leave, Karl. But I want to leave with you.  You think this town is too small for you, well, it's too small for a man of my ambition. I can't see staying here a day longer.
karl		You don't like it?
edward		I love every square inch of it. But I can feel the edges closing in on me. A man's life can only grow to a certain size in a place like this.  So what do you say? Join me?
karl		Okay.
edward		Okay.
edward		Now first, we gotta get you ready for the city.
mayor		 Edward Bloom, first son of Ashton, it's with a heavy heart we see you go. But take with you this Key to the City, and know that any time you want to come back, all our doors are open to you.
various townfolk		Find yourself a nice girl! Don't trust anyone in Kentucky! Watch your pride, Edward Bloom!
edward		 Okay. Thanks.
karl		What did she say?
edward		Beats me.
karl		You know anyone's who's taken it?
edward		That poet, Norther Winslow did. He was going to Paris, France. He must have liked it, because no one ever heard from him again.  Tell you what. You take the other way and I'll cut through here. Meet you on the far side.
karl		You're not trying to run away?
edward		Just to be sure, you can take my pack.
edward		You stupid sonofa...
edward		And what I recalled of Sunday School was that the more difficult something became, the more rewarding it was in the end.
man's voice		Friend!
beamen		Welcome to ya. What's your name?
edward		Edward Bloom.
beamen		Bloom like a flower?
edward		Yes.
beamen		Oh. Here! Right here. Edward Bloom. We weren't expecting you yet.
edward		You were expecting me?
beamen		Not yet.
mildred		You must have taken a shortcut.
edward		I did. It nearly killed me.
beamen		Mmm-hmm. Life'll do that to you. And truthfully, the long way is easier, but it's longer.
mildred		Much longer.
beamen		And you're here now, and that's what matters.
edward		What is this place?
beamen		The town of Spectre. Best kept secret in Alabama. Says here you're from Ashton, right? Last person we had from Ashton was Norther Winslow.
edward		The poet? What ever happened to him?
beamen		He's still here. Let me buy you a drink. I'll tell you all about it. Hell, I'll have him tell you.
edward		No. I've gotta meet somebody. I'm already running late.
beamen		Son, I already told you. You're early.
beamen		Now tell me if that isn't the best pie you ever ate.
edward		It truly is.
norther winslow		Everything here tastes better. Even the water is sweet. Never gets too hot, too cold, too humid. At night the wind goes through the trees and you'd swear there was a whole symphony out there, playing just for you.
edward		Hey!
edward		Wait! I need those!
norther winslow		There is no softer ground than town.
mildred		That rhymes!
beamen		He is our poet laureate.
norther winslow		I've been working on this poem for 12 years.
edward		Really.
norther winslow		There's a lot of expectation. I don't want to disappoint my fans.
edward		It's only three lines long.
norther winslow		This is why you don't show work in progress.
edward		Norther, do you ever regret not making it to Paris?
norther winslow		I can't imagine any place better than here.
edward		You're a poet. You oughta be able to. And maybe if you'd seen more, you could.
edward		No, it's okay! I got it. I got the snake.
edward		Wait! I'm sorry. Hello?!
edward		Did you see that woman?
jenny		What did she look like?
edward		Well, she... uh...
jenny		Was she nekkid?
edward		Yeah.
jenny		 It's not a woman, it's a fish. No one ever catches her.
edward		Shoot.
jenny		How old are you?
edward		Eighteen.
jenny		I'm eight. That means when I'm eighteen, you'll be 28. And when I'm
edward		 You're pretty good at arithmetic.
jenny		And when I'm 38, you'll be 48. And that's not much difference at all.
edward		Sure is a lot now, though, huh?
mildred		Jenny thinks you're quite a catch. We all do.
edward		 What?
mildred		I said you're quite a catch!
edward		I have to leave. Tonight.
beamen		Why?
edward		This town is everything a man could ask for. And if I were to end up here, I'd consider myself lucky. But the fact is, I'm not ready to end up anywhere.
beamen		No one's ever left.
jenny		How are you gonna make it without your shoes?
edward		I suspect it will hurt a lot.
beamen		 You won't find a better place!
edward		I don't expect to.
jenny		Promise me you'll come back.
edward		I promise. Someday. When I'm really supposed to.
edward		And then I realized, this wasn't the end of my life.
edward		 This isn't how I die.
karl		What happened to your shoes?
edward		They got ahead of me.
will		I don't know if you've seen it, but Josephine has some photos in the most recent Newsweek.
sandra		Really! That's wonderful.
josephine		I spent a week in Morocco for the story. It was incredible.
sandra		We'll have to pick up a copy.
edward		I don't know if you're aware of this, Josephine, but African parrots, in their native home of the Congo -- they speak only French.
josephine		 Really.
edward		You're lucky to get four words out of them in English. But if you were to walk through the jungle, you'd hear them speaking the most elaborate French. Those parrots talk about everything: politics, movies, fashion -- everything but religion.
will		Why not religion, Dad?
edward		It's rude to talk about religion. You never know who you're going to offend.
will		Josephine actually went to the Congo last year.
edward		Oh, so you know.
will		Mom, would you say you understand Dad?
sandra		Of course.
will		What I mean is, do you really know what's going on in his head?
sandra		Yes.
will		How is that possible? I mean, you try to ask him a question and suddenly it's another one of his stories.  You can't honestly say you know him.
sandra		Yes, Will, I do. And don't presume things you don't know.
sandra		Would you say you understand Josephine?
will		Yes. But that's a different...
sandra		No it's not. It's exactly the same. Your father and I met, we dated, and we married -- we chose each other -- because we understood each other on some fundamental level. Just the same as you two.
will		Josephine and I have a lot in common.
sandra		Yes, you both think William Bloom is a very smart man.  The problem is, you only see me as your mother, and not as someone's wife. And I've been his wife longer than I've been your mother. You can't discount that.
will		True. But I've known him my whole life, and I don't feel like I know him at all. Or ever will.
sandra		I know it's not easy. Just remember, he didn't choose to be your father and you didn't choose to be his son. You just ended up together. You could pick numbers out of a dark bag and it'd be just the same. If you ask me, it's a wonder parents and children can stand each other at all.
will		But I understand you, Mom. I always have.
sandra		Well, clearly you don't. But I'm not the mystery you're trying to solve right now.
sandra		Before I forget, your father has papers in the basement I'd like you to go through. I wouldn't know what's important.
will		 Mom, do you know who that is? Blonde hair.
sandra		 Was she one of your teachers?
will		No. But it's weird. She seemed to recognize me.
sandra		 Do you know who that is?
cashier		Never seen her before. Pretty, though.
edward		 Hello.
josephine		Hi. How are you feeling?
edward		I was dreaming.
josephine		What were you dreaming about?
edward		I don't usually remember unless they're especially portentous. You know what that word means, portentous?
edward		Means when you dream about something that's going to happen.  Like one night, I had a dream where this crow came and told me, "Your Aunt is going to die." I was so scared I woke up my parents. They told me it was just a dream, to go back to bed. But the next morning, my Aunt Stacy was dead.
josephine		That's terrible.
edward		Terrible for her, but think about me, young boy with that kind of power. Wasn't three weeks later that the crow came back to me in a dream and said, "Your Grampa is going to die." Well, I ran right back to my parents. My father said, no, Gramps is fine, but I could see there was trepidation. And true enough, that next morning my Grampa was dead.
edward		For the next couple weeks, I didn't have another dream. Until one night the crow came back and said, "Your Daddy is going to die."  "You think you've had a bad day," she said. "This morning the milkman dropped dead on the porch!" Josephine smiles, a half-laugh, which gets him smiling too.
edward		Because see, my mother was banging the milkman.
josephine		No, I understand.
edward		He was slipping her a little extra cream.
edward		He was filling her basket. He was making deliveries around back.
edward		He was buttering her rolls. Pumping her churn. Splashing milk in her box.
josephine		Stop.
edward		They were squeezing the cheese. Clanking the bottles. Licking the popsicle.
edward		Cracking the eggs and making an omelet.
edward		Spooning the sherbet.
josephine		 Can I take your picture?
edward		You don't need a picture. Just look up handsome in the dictionary.
josephine		Please?
josephine		I want to see pictures of your wedding. I've never seen any.
edward		That's because we didn't have a wedding. Your mother-in-law was never supposed to marry me. She was engaged to somebody else.
josephine		 I never knew.
edward		Will never told you that?  Probably just as well. He would have told it all wrong anyway. All the facts and none of the flavor.
josephine		Oh, so this is a tall tale?
edward		Well, it's not a short one.
amos		Ladies and Gentlemen, you may think you've seen the unusual. You may think you've seen the bizarre. But I've travelled to the five corners of the world, and let me tell you, I've never seen anything like this.
amos		When I found this man, he was picking oranges in Florida. His fellow workers called him El Penumbra -- The Shadow -- because when you were working beside him, he blocked out the daylight. He could take a whole tree in his hands and shake off the fruit. I had to pay his crew boss $10,000 just so I could take him with me.
amos		Not to alarm you, Ma'am. But if this man wanted to, he could crush your head between his toes.  He's not going to hurt her, folks, because he's our own Gentle Giant. Ladies and Gentlemen, I give you Colossus!
amos		What's his name? Does he talk? It's not important.
karl		Karl.
amos		Tell me Karl, have you ever heard of the term "involuntary servitude?"
amos		"Unconscionable contract?"
amos		Great, great. That's fantastic.
amos		Hey kid! Your friend just made himself a star.
edward		That's great.
edward		Good to meet you.
amos		What's the matter with you, kid? I haven't seen a customer so depressed since the elephant sat on that farmer's wife.  Get it? "Depressed?"
amos		See! The big guy likes it.
edward		I just saw the woman I'm going to marry, I know it. But then I lost her.
amos		Tough break. Most men have to get married before they lose their wives.
edward		 I'm going to spend the rest of my life looking for her. That or die alone.
amos		Jesus, kid.  Let me guess. Real pretty, blonde hair, blue hat?
edward		Yes!
amos		I know her uncle. Friends of the family.
edward		Who is she? Where does she live?
amos		Kid. Don't waste your time. She's out of your league.
edward		What do you mean? You don't even know me.
amos		Sure I do. You were hot shit back in Hickville, but here in the real world, you got squat. You don't have a plan. You don't have a job. You don't have anything but the clothes on your back.
edward		I've got a whole backpack full of clothes!
edward		 Someone stole my backpack.
amos		Kid, you were a big fish in a small pond. This here is the ocean, and you're drowning. Take my advice and go back to Puddleville. You'll be happy there.
edward		Wait. You said I don't have a plan. I do. I'm going to find that girl and marry her and spend the rest of my life with her.
edward		I don't have a job, but I would have a job if you gave me one. And I may not have much, but I have more determination than any man you're ever going to meet.
amos		Sorry, kid. I don't do charity.
edward		I'll work night and day, and you won't have to pay me. You just have to tell me who she is.
amos		Every month you work for me, I'll tell you one thing about her. That's my final offer.
edward		Mr. Calloway! It's been a month today.
amos		This girl, the love of your life. Her favorite flower is daffodils.
edward		Daffodils.  Daffodils!
edward		 Daffodils!
edward		College! She's going to college!
edward		 Music! She likes music. I like music too!
edward		Mr. Calloway! It's Edward Bloom. I need to talk to you.
edward		No, wait!
edward		It was that night I discovered that most things you consider evil or wicked are simply lonely, and lacking in the social niceties.
amos		Didn't kill anything, did I?
edward		A few rabbits, but I think one of them was already dead.
amos		That would explain the indigestion.
amos		I was wrong about you kid. You may not have much, but what you got, you got a lot of. You could get any girl.
edward		There's only one I want.
amos		Her name is Sandra Templeton. She's going to Auburn. The semester's almost over, so you better hurry.
edward		Thank you.
amos		Good luck, kid.
edward		You don't know me, but my name is Edward Bloom and I am in love with you. I've spent the last three years working to find out who you are. I've been shot and stabbed and trampled a few times, had my ribs broken twice, but it's all worth it to see you here, now, and to finally get to talk to you. Because I am destined to marry you. I knew that from the first moment I saw you at the circus. And I know it now more than ever.
sandra		I'm sorry.
edward		Don't need to apologize to me. I mean, I'm the luckiest person you're going to find today...
sandra		No I'm sorry, I... I'm engaged to be married.
edward		Oh.
sandra		But you're wrong. I do know you, at least by reputation. Edward Bloom from Ashton. See, I'm actually engaged to a boy from Ashton. Don Price. He was a few years older than you.
edward		Well. Congratulations. I'm sorry to have bothered you.
sandra		Stop it. It's not funny. That poor boy.
edward		Sandra Templeton! I love you! And I am going to marry you!
sandra		Daffodils?
edward		They're your favorite flower.
sandra		How did you get so many?
edward		I called everywhere in five states and explained this was the only way I could get my wife to marry me.
sandra		You don't even know me.
edward		I have the rest of my life to find out.
sandra		It's Don. Promise me you won't hurt him.
edward		If that's what you want, I swear to it.
don price		Bloom!
edward		Don.
don price		What the hell are you doing? This is my girl. Mine!
edward		I didn't know she belonged to anybody.
sandra		Stop it!
don price		 What the matter, Bloom? Too scared to fight back?
edward		I promised I wouldn't.
sandra		Don!
sandra		I will never marry you.
don price		What. You love this guy?
sandra		He's almost a stranger and I prefer him to you.
sandra		How can I convince you to stop?
edward		Go out with me.
sandra		Okay.
josephine		I thought you said you didn't have a church wedding.
edward		Well, we were all set to, but there was a complication.
edward		There was one time when I was eleven...
josephine		 You were talking about your wedding.
edward		I didn't forget. I was just working on a tangent. See, most men, they'll tell a story straight through, and it won't be complicated, but it won't be interesting either.
josephine		I like your stories.
edward		And I like you.
edward		Now. The thing about working for a circus is you don't have a regular address, and after three years I had a lot of undelivered mail.
edward		During the four weeks I was in the hospital, the postmaster finally caught up with me.
jump leader		GO! GO! GO!
ping		Sometimes a girl can feel so alone Without a lover to call her own. Sometimes it's so bad, she wants to explode. Wants to grab the first man she sees and tear off his clothes.
ping		 Any of you got needs?
ping		 I've had twice the adventure, Cried double the tears. Two times the bad times in half the years. I need a strong man, because I've got Twice the love to give.
ping		Say hello, Jing.
jing		Hello Jing.
ping		 I'm the bad one.
ping		How could you miss your cue? You make me look like a fool, out there alone.
jing		You weren't alone.
ping		Who the hell are you?
edward		 I'm not going to hurt you.
ping		Damn right you're not.  GUARD!
jing		Tell your men not to bother us! And lock that door!
edward		Please, I need your help.
ping		What makes you think we'll help you?
ping		And what are we supposed to do when we get to America?
edward		I can get you bookings. I know the biggest man in show business.
jing		Bob Hope?
edward		Bigger.
josephine		I talked with your father last night.
will		Did you?
josephine		You never told me how your parents met.
will		They met at Auburn.
josephine		What about the details? How they fell in love. The Circus. The War. You never told me any of that.
will		That's because most of it never happened.
josephine		But it's romantic.
will		 Mmm.
josephine		Mmm, what?
will		Mmm, what. I know better than to argue romance with a French woman.
josephine		Do you love your father?
will		Everyone loves my father. He's a very likeable guy.
josephine		 Do you love him?
will		You have to understand. When I was growing up, he was gone more than he was here. And I started thinking -- maybe he has a second life somewhere else. With another house, another family. He leaves us, he goes to them. Or maybe there is no family. Maybe he never wanted a family. But whatever it is, maybe he likes that second life better. And the reason he tells all those stories is because he can't stand this boring place.
josephine		But it's not true.
will		What is "true?" I've never heard my father say a single true thing.
will		Look, I know why you like him. I know why everyone likes him. But I need you to tell me I'm not crazy.
josephine		You're not.
will		I need you on my side.
josephine		I am always on your side. And I think you should talk to him.
edward		Did I ever tell you about how...
will		 Yes.
will		The maple tree and the Buick. We heard it.
edward		 I think someone hasn't.
josephine		The tree fell on the car, spilling the syrup, which attracted the flies, which got stuck to it and flew off with the whole car.
edward		 But the real story is how I got the car. You see...
will		 Dad?
edward		Son?
will		Can we talk?
sandra		I'm going to get started on dishes.
josephine		I'll help you.
will		Do you know much about icebergs, Dad?
edward		Do I? I saw an iceberg once. They were hauling it down to Texas for drinking water, only they didn't count on an elephant being frozen inside. The woolly kind. A mammoth.
will		 Dad!
edward		What?
will		I'm trying to make a metaphor here.
edward		Then you shouldn't have started with a question. Because people want to answer questions. You should have started with, "The thing about icebergs is..."
will		 The thing about icebergs is you only see 10 percent of them. The other 90 percent is below the water where you can't see it. And that's what it is with you Dad. I'm only seeing this little bit that sticks above the water.
edward		 What, you're seeing down to my nose? My chin?
will		I have no idea who you are because you have never told me a single fact.
edward		I've told you a thousand facts. That's all I do, Will. I tell stories.
will		You tell lies, Dad. You tell amusing lies. Stories are what you tell a five-year old at bedtime. They're not elaborate mythologies you maintain when your son is ten and fifteen and twenty and thirty. And the thing is, I believed you. I believed your stories so much longer than I should have. And then when I realized that everything you said was impossible -- everything! -- I felt like such a fool to have trusted you. You were like Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny combined. Just as charming and just as fake.
edward		You think I'm fake.
will		Only on the surface. But that's all I've ever seen.
will		Dad, I'm about to have a kid of my own here. It would kill me if he went through his whole life never understanding me.
edward		It would kill you, huh?
edward		What do you want, Will? Who do you want me to be?
will		Yourself. Good, bad, everything. Just show me who you are for once.
edward		I have been nothing but myself since the day I was born. And if you can't see that, it's your failing, not mine.
sandra		Your father decided he needed to have an office, and it wouldn't do to have it in the house. You'll know better than me what's important.
will		What is it?
sandra		It was during the war. Your father went missing. They thought he was dead.
will		That really happened?
sandra		Not everything your father says is a complete fabrication.
sandra		I'm going to check on him.
josephine		I need to lie down for a bit.
will		Go.
edward		I've travelled from Tennessee to Timbuktu, and if there's one thing people have in common, is we could all use a hand around the house.
edward		Why, with this product you can...
edward		Open a jar. Open a letter. Scratch yourself while wearing mittens. Hold a book. Hold a baby. Hold the dog away from kittens. It's strong enough, you can do a handstand with no hands at all.
edward		You can use it to point out important information. Or dangers. Or beautiful women.
edward		We're still working on that one.
the man		Edward? Edward Bloom?
norther winslow		It's me. Norther Winslow.
edward		I don't believe it!
norther winslow		I want you to know, when you left Spectre it opened my eyes. There was a whole life out there that I was not living. So I travelled. I saw France, and Africa, half of South America. Every day a new adventure, that's my motto.
edward		That's great, Norther. I'm happy for you. I can't believe I helped.
edward		So what are you up to now?
norther winslow		I'm robbing this place.
norther winslow		 Would you mind grabbing that?
norther winslow		 You help my friend, okay?
edward		Look, I'm really sorry. I just don't want anybody to get hurt.
teller woman		It's not that, it's just...
teller woman		...there's no money. We're completely bankrupt.
teller woman		 You gotta promise you won't tell anybody.
norther winslow		Sixty. Eighty. Four hundred dollars! Not bad for just the drawers. Let's see what you got from the vault.
norther winslow		This is it? The whole vault.
edward		'Fraid so.
norther winslow		Edward, it's got your deposit slip on it.
edward		Look, I just didn't want you to go empty-handed. There's something you should know, Norther. You see, the reason why...
norther winslow		I should go to Wall Street. That's where all the money is.
norther winslow		Edward, thank you for the hand!
edward		I was drying out.
sandra		I see. We need to get you one of those plant misters. We can spray you like a fern.
edward		Come now.
sandra		I don't think I'll ever dry out.
will		Is he awake?
sandra		He just fell asleep. Josephine's with him.
will		Mom?
sandra		Yes?
will		Did you and Dad have any other property?
sandra		 I suppose your grandmother's house when she passed on. But we sold that right away. Your cousin Shirley bought it.
will		So you never bought any land.
sandra		Heavens no. We had a hard enough time keeping the mortgage on this place.
jenny		Oh. Oh.
will		Hello.
jenny		I wasn't expecting you.
will		Are you Jenny Hill?
jenny		I am. And you're Will. I've seen your picture, that's how I recognize you. I almost said something at the store, but it would have been awkward.  Like this.
jenny		 Listen, Kenny. Why don't we skip the lesson today? We can go again next week.
student		Do I have to give it back to my Mom?
jenny		I won't tell her if you won't.
will		How did you know my father?
jenny		This was on his sales route, so he was through here all the time. Everyone in town knew him.
will		Were you and my father having an affair?
jenny		 Wow. Wow, you just said it. I was expecting to dance around this for another half hour.
will		I've seen him with women. He flirts. He always has. On some level, I presumed he was cheating on my mother. I just never had proof.
jenny		Can I ask you a question? Why did you come here today? If you found this deed, why didn't you just ask Eddie?
will		Because he's dying.
jenny		Look, I don't know how much you want to know about any of this. You have one image of your father and it would be wrong for me to go and change it. Especially this late in the game.
will		My father talked about a lot of things he never did, and I'm sure he did a lot of things he never talked about. I'm just trying to reconcile the two.
jenny		The first thing you have to understand, is that your father never meant to end up here. And yet he did, twice. The first time, he was early. The second time, he was late.
edward		Fifty-thousand!
jing		You can structure it as a historical trust. But you'll need every contiguous piece of property. It's all or nothing.
jenny		You must be Edward Bloom.
edward		How did you know?
jenny		No one would come out here unless they had business. And no one would have business with me except for you. You're buying the town.
edward		Apparently I've overlooked this one piece of it, and I'd like to remedy that. You see, in order for the town to be preserved, the trust must own it in its entirety.
jenny		So I've heard.
edward		I'll offer you more than it's worth. And you know you won't have to move. Nothing will change except the name on the deed, you have my word.
jenny		Now let me get this straight. You'll buy the swamp from me, but I'll stay in it. You'll own the house, but it'll still be mine. I'll be here, and you'll come and go as you please to one place or another. Do I have that right?
edward		In so many words, yes.
jenny		Then I don't think so Mr. Bloom. If nothing is going to change, I'd just as soon it not change in the way it hasn't been changing all this time.
edward		It's not like you're going to lose anything. You can ask anyone in town. I've been nothing if not generous. I want the best for everyone.
jenny		Mr. Bloom, why are you buying this land? Some sort of midlife crisis? Instead of buying a convertible, you buy a town?
edward		Helping people makes me happy.
jenny		I'm not convinced you should be happy.
edward		I'm sorry. Have I offended you?
jenny		No, you did exactly what you promised. You came back. I was just expecting you sooner.
edward		You're Beamen's daughter. Your last name is different.  You married.
jenny		I was 18. He was 28. Turns out that was a big difference.
jenny		I won't be selling you this house, Mr. Bloom.
edward		I see. I thank you for your time.
edward		I'm sorry.
jenny		It's okay, just leave it.
edward		I can get it. I can just...
edward		Lord, I'm sorry I...
jenny		Please. Go. Just go.
edward		I'll...
jenny		Go.
edward		Of course, the best part was creating new material. By the time the twins and I got to Havana, we had a whole new routine worked out for them, with just a ukulele and a harmonica.
edward		I suppose I should...
jenny		You can leave it there.
edward		No.
edward		Don't. Don't be embarrassed. I should never have let you think that...  I am in love with my wife.
jenny		I know.
edward		And from the moment I saw her until the moment I die, she's the only one.
jenny		Lucky girl.
edward		I'm sorry, Jenny. I am.
jenny		Wait! Edward!
will		Logically, you couldn't be the Witch, because she was old back when he was young.
jenny		No, it's logical if you think like your father. See, to him, there's only two women: your mother and everyone else.
will		You didn't become crazy.
jenny		Well, therapy. And one day I realized I was in love with a man who could never love me back. I was living in a fairy tale.
jenny		People aren't like they are in stories. They hurt each other without meaning to. They are kind and unbelievably cruel at the same moment. Like me, now. I'm not sure I should have told you any of this.
will		No, I wanted to know. I'm glad I know.
jenny		I wanted to meet you for the longest time. I did.  I envied you so much. The way Eddie would talk about you when you were at Missouri, that award you won. Congratulations, incidentally. And when you got the job at the A.P., everything, he was so proud of you. I mean, that's the thing. Every moment he loved you.
jenny		And as brightly as the sun would shine when he was with me, every time he left it disappeared. I wanted to be as important to him as you were, and I was never going to be. I was make-believe and his other life, you, were real.
jenny		You knew that, didn't you?
will		 Hello? Mom? Dad?
will		What happened?
josephine		Your father had a stroke. He's upstairs with your mom and Dr. Bennett.
will		Is he going to be okay?
will		What I mean is, will he get back to the way he was when...
josephine		No. He won't. I'm sorry.
sandra		I don't suppose one of us could stay with him. In case he...  In case he wakes up, one of us should be there.
will		I'll stay. Why don't you go home with Josephine and I'll stay tonight.
sandra		 That's okay?
sandra		 You'll call if...
will		I will. I'll call.
will		Mom, do you want some time with Dad?
sandra		Yes. Thank you.
josephine		I'm sorry. It seems every hour I have to...
sandra		I know. It was the same when I was carrying Will. Like clockwork.
sandra		Do you like it, being pregnant?
josephine		I do.
sandra		I loved it. It sounds peculiar, but I loved every minute of it. I did. Eddie was travelling a lot, so he was gone, but I felt like I always had a piece of him with me. A little part of his soul inside me. I could feel it. It was alive and kicking.
sandra		I really miss that.
josephine		Don't stop. Don't.
will		My father and I have an advantage. We never talk.
will		How long have you known my father?
will		How would you describe him?
will		A thousand times. He caught an uncatchable fish.
will		 No.
will		Dad?
will		Dad! Do you want me to get a nurse?
will		What can I do? Can I help? Can I get you something? Water?
edward		 The river.
will		The river?
edward		Tell me how it happens.
will		How what happens?
edward		How I go.
will		You mean what you saw in The Eye?
will		I don't know that story, Dad. You never told me that one.
will		I can try, Dad. If you help. Just tell me how it starts.
edward		Like this.
will		Okay. Okay.
will		Okay. It's morning, and you and I are in the hospital. I'd fallen asleep in the chair. I wake up and I see you, and...
will		Dad?
will		 Dad?
edward		Let's get out of here.
will		Dad, you're in no condition to...
edward		There's a fold-up wheelchair in the bathroom. Wrap a blanket around me. As soon as we get off this floor, we'll be in the clear.
edward		Hurry! We don't have much time.
edward		Faster!
nurse		Security! Stop them!
edward		No time to explain! Follow us!
edward		Water. I need water.
edward		Leave it! We won't need it.
will		And we have to take Glenville to avoid all the church traffic, because those damn church people drive too slow.
will		I ask...
edward		The River!
ping		He's here!
will		It's unbelievable.
edward		Story of my life.
edward		Goodbye everybody! Farewell! Adieu!
edward		My girl in the river.
will		You become what you always were. A very big fish.  And that's the way it happens.
edward		 Yes. Exactly.
will		 Hi.
son		 So he said he'd fight the giant who was fifteen feet tall.
kid		No way.
son		 Dad, that's right, isn't it?
will		Something like that.
son		See. So he was a giant but my grampa was going to fight him because he wasn't afraid of anything because he'd seen how he was going to die in this old lady's glass eye...
****Dialogues from script :Big_Lebowski.txt****

george bush		This aggression will not stand. . . This will not stand!
dude		It's the LeBaron.
voice		We want that money, Lebowski.  Bunny said you were good for it.
voice		Where's the money, Lebowski!
voice		Where's the money, Lebowski!
voice		WHERE'S THE FUCKING MONEY, SHITHEAD!
dude		It's uh, it's down there somewhere. Lemme take another look.
voice		Don't fuck with us.  If your wife owes money to Jackie Treehorn, that means you owe money to Jackie Treehorn.
chinese man		Ever thus to deadbeats, Lebowski.
dude		Oh, man.  Don't do--
blond man		You see what happens?  You see what happens, Lebowski?
dude		Look, nobody calls me Lebowski.  You got the wrong guy.  I'm the Dude, man.
blond man		Your name is Lebowski.  Your wife is Bunny.
dude		Bunny?  Look, moron.
dude		You see a wedding ring?  Does this place look like I'm fucking married? All my plants are dead!
blond man		The fuck is this?
dude		Obviously you're not a golfer.
blond man		Woo?
woo		Yeah?
blond man		Wasn't this guy supposed to be a millionaire?
woo		Uh?
woo		Fuck.
blond man		What do you think?
woo		He looks like a fuckin' loser.
dude		Hey.  At least I'm housebroken.
woo		Fuckin' waste of time.
blond man		Thanks a lot, asshole.
man		Hot damn, I'm throwin' rocks tonight. Mark it, Dude.
walter		This was a valued rug.
walter		This was, uh--
dude		Yeah man, it really tied the room together--
walter		This was a valued, uh.
donny		What tied the room together, Dude?
walter		Were you listening to the story, Donny?
donny		What--
walter		Were you listening to the Dude's story?
donny		I was bowling--
walter		So you have no frame of reference, Donny.  You're like a child who wanders in in the middle of a movie and wants to know--
dude		What's your point, Walter?
walter		There's no fucking reason--here's my point, Dude--there's no fucking reason--
donny		Yeah Walter, what's your point?
walter		Huh?
dude		What's the point of--we all know who was at fault, so what the fuck are you talking about?
walter		Huh?  No!  What the fuck are you talking--I'm not--we're talking about unchecked aggression here--
donny		What the fuck is he talking about?
dude		My rug.
walter		Forget it, Donny.  You're out of your element.
dude		This Chinaman who peed on my rug, I can't go give him a bill so what the fuck are you talking about?
walter		What the fuck are you talking about?! This Chinaman is not the issue!  I'm talking about drawing a line in the sand, Dude.  Across this line you do not, uh--and also, Dude, Chinaman is not the preferred, uh. . . Asian- American.  Please.
dude		Walter, this is not a guy who built the rail- roads, here, this is a guy who peed on my--
walter		What the fuck are you--
dude		Walter, he peed on my rug--
donny		He peed on the Dude's rug--
walter		YOU'RE OUT OF YOUR ELEMENT!  This Chinaman is not the issue, Dude.
dude		So who--
walter		Jeff Lebowski.  Come on.  This other Jeffrey Lebowski.  The millionaire. He's gonna be easier to find anyway than these two, uh. these two  . . . And he has the wealth, uh, the resources obviously, and there is no reason, no FUCKING reason, why his wife should go out and owe money and they pee on your rug.  Am I wrong?
dude		No, but--
walter		Am I wrong!
dude		Yeah, but--
walter		Okay. That, uh.
dude		Fuckin' A.
donny		And this guy peed on it.
walter		Donny!  Please!
dude		Yeah, I could find this Lebowski guy--
donny		His name is Lebowski?  That's your name, Dude!
dude		Yeah, this is the guy, this guy should compensate me for the fucking rug. I mean his wife goes out and owes money and they pee on my rug.
walter		Thaaat's right Dude; they pee on your fucking Rug.
young man		And this is the study.  You can see the various commendations, honorary degrees, et cetera.
dude		Yes, uh, very impressive.
young man		Please, feel free to inspect them.
dude		I'm not really, uh.
young man		Please!  Please!
dude		Uh-huh.
young man		That's the key to the city of Pasadena, which Mr. Lebowski was given two years ago in recognition of his various civic, uh.
dude		Uh-huh.
young man		That's a Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce Business Achiever award, which is given--not necessarily given every year!  Given only when there's a worthy, somebody especially--
dude		Hey, is this him with Nancy?
young man		That is indeed Mr. Lebowski with the first lady, yes, taken when--
dude		Lebowski on the right?
young man		Of course, Mr. Lebowski on the right, Mrs.  Reagan on the left, taken when--
dude		He's handicapped, huh?
young man		Mr. Lebowski is disabled, yes.  And this picture was taken when Mrs. Reagan was first lady of the nation, yes, yes? Not of California.
dude		Far out.
young man		And in fact he met privately with the President, though unfortunately there wasn't time for a photo opportunity.
dude		Nancy's pretty good.
young man		Wonderful woman.  We were very--
dude		Are these.
young man		These are Mr. Lebowski's children, so to speak--
dude		Different mothers, huh?
young man		No, they--
dude		I guess he's pretty, uh, racially pretty cool--
young man		They're not his, heh-heh, they're not literally his children; they're the Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, inner-city children of promise but without the--
dude		I see.
young man		--without  the means  for higher education, so Mr. Lebowski  has committed  to sending  all of them to college.
dude		Jeez.  Think he's got room for one more?
young man		One--oh!  Heh-heh.  You never went to college?
dude		Well, yeah I did, but I spent most of my time occupying various, um, administration buildings--
young man		Heh-heh--
dude		--smoking thai-stick, breaking into the ROTC--
young man		Yes, heh--
dude		--and bowling.  I'll tell you the truth, Brandt, I don't remember most of it.--Jeez!  Fuck me!
lebowski		Okay sir, you're a Lebowski, I'm a Lebowski, that's terrific, I'm very busy so what can I do for you?
dude		Well sir, it's this rug I have, really tied the room together-
lebowski		You told Brandt on the phone, he told me.  So where do I fit in?
dude		Well they were looking for you, these two guys, they were trying to--
lebowski		I'll say it again, all right?  You told Brandt.  He told me.  I know what happened. Yes?  Yes?
dude		So you know they were trying to piss on your rug--
lebowski		Did I urinate on your rug?
dude		You mean, did you personally come and pee on my--
lebowski		Hello!  Do you speak English?  Parla usted Inglese?  I'll say it again. Did I urinate on your rug?
dude		Well no, like I said, Woo peed on the rug--
lebowski		Hello!  Hello!  So every time--I just want to understand this, sir-- every time a rug is micturated upon in this fair city, I have to compensate the--
dude		Come on, man, I'm not trying to scam anybody here, I'm just--
lebowski		You're just looking for a handout like every other--are you employed, Mr. Lebowski?
dude		Look, let me explain something. I'm not Mr. Lebowski;  you're Mr. Lebowski.  I'm the Dude.  So that's what  you  call me.  That, or Duder. His  Dudeness.  Or El Duderino, if, you know, you're not into the whole brevity thing--
lebowski		Are you employed, sir?
dude		Employed?
lebowski		You don't go out and make a living dressed like that in the middle of a weekday.
dude		Is this a--what day is this?
lebowski		But I do work, so if you don't mind--
dude		No, look.  I do mind.  The Dude minds. This will not stand, ya know, this will not stand, man.  I mean, if your wife owes--
lebowski		My wife is not the issue here. I hope that my wife will someday learn to live on her allowance, which is ample, but if she doesn't, sir, that will be her problem, not mine, just as your rug is your problem, just as every bum's lot in life is his own responsibility regardless of whom he chooses to blame.  I didn't blame anyone for the loss of my legs, some chinaman in Korea took them from me but I went out and achieved anyway. I can't solve your problems, sir, only you can.
dude		Ah fuck it.
lebowski		Sure!  Fuck it!  That's your answer! Tattoo it on your forehead!  Your answer to everything!
lebowski		Your "revolution" is over, Mr. Lebowski!  Condolences!  The bums lost!
lebowski		...My advice is, do what your parents did!  Get a job, sir!  The bums will always lose-- do you hear me, Lebowski?  THE BUMS WILL ALWAYS--
hallway		--in a high coffered hallway.  Brandt is approaching.
brandt		How was your meeting, Mr. Lebowski?
dude		Okay.  The old man told me to take any rug in the house.
brandt		Manolo will load it into your car for you, uh, Dude.
dude		It's the LeBaron.
brandt		Well, enjoy, and perhaps we'll see you again some time, Dude.
dude		Yeah sure, if I'm ever in the neighborhood, need to use the john.
young woman		Blow on them.
dude		Huh?
young woman		G'ahead.  Blow.
dude		You want me to blow on your toes?
young woman		Uh-huh. . . I can't blow that far.
dude		You sure he won't mind?
young woman		Dieter doesn't care about anything. He's a nihilist.
dude		Practicing?
young woman		You're not blowing.
brandt		Our guest has to be getting along, Mrs.  Lebowski.
dude		You're Bunny?
bunny		I'll suck your cock for a thousand dollars.
brandt		Ha-ha-ha-ha!  Wonderful woman.  Very free-spirited.  We're all very fond of her.
bunny		Brandt can't watch though.  Or he has to pay a hundred.
brandt		Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!  That's marvelous.
dude		I'm just gonna find a cash machine.
donny		Grasshopper Dude--They're dead in the water!!
dude		Your maples, Carl.
walter		Way to go, Dude.  If you will it, it is no dream.
dude		You're fucking twenty minutes late. What the fuck is that?
walter		Theodore Herzel.
dude		Huh?
walter		State of Israel.  If you will it, Dude, it is no--
dude		What the fuck're you talking about? The carrier.  What's in the fucking carrier?
walter		Huh?  Oh--Cynthia's Pomeranian. Can't leave him home alone or he eats the furniture.
dude		What the fuck are you--
walter		I'm saying, Cynthia's Pomeranian. I'm looking after it while Cynthia and Marty Ackerman are in Hawaii.
dude		You brought a fucking Pomeranian bowling?
walter		What do you mean "brought it bowling"? I didn't rent it shoes.  I'm not buying it a fucking beer.  He's not gonna take your fucking turn, Dude.
dude		Hey, man, if my fucking ex-wife asked me to take care of her fucking dog while she and her boyfriend went to Honolulu, I'd tell her to go fuck herself.  Why can't she board it?
walter		First of all, Dude, you don't have an ex, secondly, it's a fucking show dog with fucking papers.  You can't board it.  It gets upset, its hair falls out.
dude		Hey man--
walter		Fucking dog has papers, Dude.--Over the line!
walter		Smokey Huh?
walter		Over the line, Smokey!  I'm sorry. That's a foul.
smokey		Bullshit.  Eight, Dude.
walter		Excuse me!  Mark it zero.  Next frame.
smokey		Bullshit. Walter!
walter		This is not Nam.  This is bowling. There are rules.
dude		Come on Walter, it's just--it's Smokey.  So his toe slipped over a little, it's just a game.
walter		This is a league game.  This determines who enters the next round- robin, am I wrong?
smokey		Yeah, but--
walter		Am I wrong!?
smokey		Yeah, but I wasn't over.  Gimme the marker, Dude,  I'm marking it an eight.
walter		Smokey my friend, you're entering a world of pain.
dude		Hey Walter--
walter		Mark that frame an eight, you're entering a world of pain.
smokey		I'm not--
walter		A world of pain.
smokey		Look Dude, I don't hold with this. This guy is your partner, you should--
walter		HAS THE WHOLE WORLD GONE CRAZY?  AM I THE ONLY ONE HERE WHO GIVES A SHIT ABOUT THE RULES?  MARK IT ZERO!
dude		Walter, they're calling the cops, put the piece away.
walter		MARK IT ZERO!
smokey		Walter--
walter		YOU THINK I'M FUCKING AROUND HERE? MARK IT ZERO!!
smokey		All right!  There it is!  It's fucking zero!
smokey		You happy, you crazy fuck?
walter		This is a league game, Smokey!
dude		Walter, you can't do that.  These guys're like me, they're pacificists. Smokey was a conscientious objector.
walter		You know Dude, I myself dabbled with pacifism at one point.  Not in Nam, of course--
dude		And you know Smokey has emotional problems!
walter		You mean--beyond pacifism?
dude		He's fragile, man!  He's very fragile!
walter		Huh.  I did not know that.  Well, it's water under the bridge.  And we do enter the next round-robin, am I wrong?
dude		No, you're not wrong--
walter		Am I wrong!
dude		You're not wrong, Walter, you're just an asshole.
walter		Okay then.  We play Quintana and O'Brien next week.  They'll be pushovers.
dude		Just, just take it easy, Walter.
walter		That's your answer to everything, Dude.  And let me point out--pacifism is not--look at our current situation with that camelfucker in Iraq-- pacifism is not something to hide behind.
dude		Well, just take 't easy, man.
walter		I'm perfectly calm, Dude.
dude		Yeah?  Wavin' a gun around?!
walter		 Calmer than you are.
dude		Just take it easy, man!
walter		Calmer than you are.
voice		Dude, this is Smokey.  Look, I don't wanna be a hard-on about this, and I know it wasn't your fault, but I just thought it was fair to tell you that Gene and I will be submitting this to the League and asking them to set aside the round.  Or maybe forfeit it to us--
dude		Shit!
voice		--so, like I say, just thought, you know, fair warning.  Tell Walter.
another voice		Mr. Lebowski, this is Brandt at, uh, well--at Mr. Lebowski's office. Please call us as soon as is convenient.
another voice		Mr. Lebowski, this is Fred Dynarski with the Southern Cal Bowling League. I just got a, an informal report, uh, that a uh, a member of your team, uh, Walter Sobchak, drew a loaded weapon during league play--
dude		Hiya Allan.
allan		Dude, I finally got the venue I wanted.  I'm Performing my dance quintet--you know, my cycle--at Crane Jackson's Fountain Street Theatre on Tuesday night, and I'd love it if you came and gave me notes.
dude		Sure Allan, I'll be there.
allan		Dude, uh, tomorrow is already the tenth.
dude		Yeah, yeah I know. Okay.
allan		Just, uh, just slip the rent under my door.
dude		Yeah, okay.
voice		--serious infraction, and examine your standing.  Thank you.  Beep.
voice		Mr. Lebowski, Brandt again.  Please do call us when you get in and I'll send the limo.  Let me assure you--I hope you're not avoiding this call because of the rug, which, I assure you, is not a problem.  We need your help and, uh--well we would very much like to see you.  Thank you. It's Brandt.
brandt		We've had some terrible news.  Mr. Lebowski is in seclusion in the West Wing.
dude		Huh.
brandt		Mr. Lebowski.
lebowski		It's funny.  I can look back on a life of achievement, on challenges met, competitors bested, obstacles overcome.  I've accomplished more than most men, and without the use of my legs.  What. . . What makes a man, Mr. Lebowski?
dude		Dude.
lebowski		Huh?
dude		I don't know, sir.
lebowski		Is it. . . is it, being prepared to do the right thing?  Whatever the price?  Isn't that what makes a man?
dude		Sure.  That and a pair of testicles.
lebowski		You're joking.  But perhaps you're right.
dude		Mind if I smoke a jay?
lebowski		Bunny.
dude		'Scuse me?
lebowski		Bunny Lebowski. . . She is the light of my life.  Are you surprised at my tears, sir?
dude		Fuckin' A.
lebowski		Strong men also cry. . . Strong men also cry.
lebowski		I received this fax this morning.
lebowski		As you can see, it is a ransom note. Sent by cowards.  Men who are unable to achieve on a level field of play. Men who will not sign their names. Weaklings.  Bums.
dude		Bummer.
lebowski		Brandt will fill you in on the details.
brandt		Mr. Lebowski is prepared to make a generous offer to you to act as courier once we get instructions for the money.
dude		Why me, man?
brandt		He suspects that the culprits might be the very people who, uh, soiled your rug, and you're in a unique position to confirm or, uh, disconfirm that suspicion.
dude		So he thinks it's the carpet-pissers, huh?
brandt		Well Dude, we just don't know.
dude		Fucking Quintana--that creep can roll, man--
walter		Yeah, but he's a fucking pervert, Dude.
dude		Huh?
walter		The man is a sex offender.  With a record.  Spent six months in Chino for exposing himself to an eight- year-old.
dude		Huh.
walter		When he moved down to Venice he had to go door-to-door to tell everyone he's a pederast.
donny		What's a pederast, Walter?
walter		Shut the fuck up, Donny.
walter		Anyway.  How much they offer you?
dude		Twenty grand.  And of course I still keep the rug.
walter		Just for making the hand-off?
dude		Yeah.
dude		...They  gave  Dude  a  beeper,  so whenever these guys call--
walter		What if it's during a game?
dude		I told him if it was during league play--
donny		If what's during league play?
walter		Life does not stop and start at your convenience, you miserable piece of shit.
donny		What's wrong with Walter, Dude?
dude		I figure it's easy money, it's all pretty harmless.  I mean she probably kidnapped herself.
walter		Huh?
donny		What do you mean, Dude?
dude		Rug-peers did not do this.  I mean look at it.  Young trophy wife. Marries a guy for money but figures he isn't giving her enough.  She owes money all over town--
walter		That...fucking...bitch!
dude		It's all a goddamn fake.  Like Lenin said, look for the person who will benefit.  And you will, uh, you know, you'll, uh, you know what I'm trying to say--
donny		I am the Walrus.
walter		That fucking bitch!
dude		Yeah.
donny		I am the Walrus.
walter		Shut the fuck up, Donny!  V.I. Lenin! Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov!
donny		What the fuck is he talking about?
walter		That's fucking exactly what happened, Dude!  That makes me fucking SICK!
dude		Yeah, well, what do you care, Walter?
donny		Yeah Dude, why is Walter so pissed off?
walter		Those rich fucks!  This whole fucking thing-- I did not watch my buddies die face down in the muck so that this fucking strumpet--
dude		I don't see any connection to Vietnam, Walter.
walter		Well, there isn't a literal connection, Dude.
dude		Walter, face it, there isn't any connection.  It's your roll.
walter		Have it your way.  The point is--
dude		It's your roll--
walter		The fucking point is--
dude		It's your roll.
voice		Are you ready to be fucked, man?
quintana		I see you rolled your way into the semis.  Deos mio, man.  Seamus and me, we're gonna fuck you up.
dude		Yeah well, that's just, ya know, like, your opinion, man.
quintana		Let me tell you something, bendeco. You pull any your crazy shit with us, you flash a piece out on the lanes, I'll take it away from you and stick it up your ass and pull the fucking trigger til it goes "click".
dude		Jesus.
quintana		You said it, man.  Nobody fucks with the Jesus.
walter		Eight-year-olds, Dude.
dude		Oh man.
brandt		They called about eighty minutes ago.  They want you to take the money and drive north on the 4 5.  They'll call you on the portable phone with instructions in about forty minutes. One person only or I'd go with you. They were very clear on that: one person only.  What happened to your jaw?
dude		Oh, nothin', you know.
brandt		Here's the money, and the phone. Please, Dude, follow whatever instructions they give.
dude		Uh-huh.
brandt		Her life is in your hands.
dude		Oh, man, don't say that..
brandt		Mr. Lebowski asked me to repeat that: Her life is in your hands.
dude		Shit.
brandt		Her life is in your hands, Dude. And report back to us as soon as it's done.
walter		Take the ringer.  I'll drive.
dude		The what?
walter		The ringer!  The ringer, Dude!  Have they called yet?
dude		What the hell is this?
walter		My dirty undies.  Laundry, Dude. The whites.
dude		Agh--
dude		Walter, I'm sure there's a reason you brought your dirty undies--
walter		Thaaaat's right, Dude.  The weight. The ringer can't look empty.
dude		Walter--what the fuck are you thinking?
walter		Well you're right, Dude, I got to thinking.  I got to thinking why should we settle for a measly fucking twenty grand--
dude		We?  What the fuck we?  You said you just wanted to come along--
walter		My point, Dude, is why should we settle for twenty grand when we can keep the entire million.  Am I wrong?
dude		Yes you're wrong.  This isn't a fucking game, Walter--
walter		It is a fucking game.  You said so yourself, Dude--she kidnapped herself--
dude		Dude here.
voice		 Who is this?
dude		Dude the Bagman.  Where do you want us to go?
voice		...Us? DUDE
voice		Shut the fuck up.  Hello?
dude		Yeah?
voice		Okay, listen--
walter		Dude, are you fucking this up?
voice		Who is that?
dude		The driver man, I told you--
dude		Oh shit.  Walter.
walter		What the fuck is going on there?
dude		They hung up, Walter!  You fucked it up!  You fucked it up!  Her life was in our hands!
walter		Easy, Dude.
dude		We're screwed now!  We don't get shit and they're gonna kill her! We're fucked, Walter!
walter		Dude, nothing is fucked.  Come on. You're being very unDude.  They'll call back.  Look, she kidnapped her--
walter		Ya see?  Nothing is fucked up here, Dude.  Nothing is fucked.  These guys are fucking amateurs--
dude		Shutup, Walter!  Don't fucking say peep when I'm doing business here.
walter		 Okay Dude.  Have it your way.
walter		But they're amateurs.
dude		Dude here.
voice		Okay, vee proceed.  But only if there is no funny stuff.
dude		Yeah.
voice		So no funny stuff.  Okay?
dude		Hey, just tell me where the fuck you want us to go.
dude		That was the sign.
walter		Yeah.  So as long as we get her back, nobody's in a position to complain. And we keep the baksheesh.
dude		Terrific, Walter.  But you haven't told me how we get her back.  Where is she?
walter		That's the simple part, Dude.  When we make the handoff, I grab the guy and beat  it out of him.
walter		...Huh?
dude		Yeah.  That's a great plan, Walter. That's fucking ingenious, if I understand it correctly.  That's a Swiss fucking watch.
walter		Thaaat's right, Dude.  The beauty of this is its simplicity. If the plan gets too complex something always goes wrong.  If there's one thing I learned in Nam--
dude		Dude.
voice		You are approaching a vooden britch. When you cross it you srow ze bag from ze left vindow of ze moving kar.  Do not slow down.  Vee vatch you.
dude		FUCK.
walter		What'd he say?  Where's the hand- off?
dude		There is no fucking hand-off, Walter! At a wooden bridge we throw the money out  of the car!
walter		Huh?
dude		We throw the money out of the moving car!
walter		We can't do that, Dude.  That fucks up our plan.
dude		Well call them up and explain it to 'em, Walter!  Your plan is so fucking simple, I'm sure they'd fucking understand it!  That's the beauty of it Walter!
walter		Wooden bridge, huh?
dude		I'm throwing the money, Walter! We're not fucking around!
walter		The bridge is coming up!  Gimme the ringer, Dude!  Chop-chop!
dude		Fuck that!  I love you, Walter, but sooner or later you're gonna have to face the fact that you're a goddamn moron.
walter		Okay, Dude.  No time to argue.  Here's the bridge--
dude		Walter!
walter		Your wheel, Dude!  I'm rolling out!
dude		What the fuck?
walter		Your wheel!  At fifteen em-pee-aitch I roll out!  I double back, grab one of 'em and beat it out of him!  The uzi!
dude		Uzi?
walter		You didn't think I was rolling out of here naked!
dude		Walter, please--
walter		Fifteen!  This is it, Dude!  Let's take that hill!
dude		WE HAVE IT!  WE HAVE IT!!
dude		WE HAVE IT!!. . . We have it!
walter		Ahh fuck it, let's go bowling.
walter		Aitz chaim he, Dude.  As the ex used to say.
dude		What the fuck is that supposed to mean?  What the fuck're we gonna tell Lebowski?
walter		Huh?  Oh, him, yeah.  Well I don't see, um-- what exactly is the problem?
dude		Huh?  The problem is--what do you mean what's the--there's no--we didn't-- they're gonna kill that poor woman--
walter		What the fuck're you talking about? That poor woman--that poor slut-- kidnapped herself, Dude.  You said so yourself--
dude		No, Walter!  I said I thought she kidnapped herself!  You're the one who's so fucking certain--
walter		That's right, Dude, 1  % certain--
donny		They posted the next round of the tournament--
walter		Donny, shut the f--when do we play?
donny		This Saturday.  Quintana and--
walter		Saturday!  Well they'll have to reschedule.
dude		Walter, what'm I gonna tell Lebowski?
walter		I told that fuck down at the league office-- who's in charge of scheduling?
dude		Walter--
donny		Burkhalter.
walter		I told that kraut a fucking thousand times I don't roll on shabbas.
donny		It's already posted.
walter		WELL THEY CAN FUCKING UN-POST IT!
dude		Who gives a shit, Walter?  What about that poor woman?  What do we tell--
walter		C'mon Dude, eventually she'll get sick of her little game and, you know, wander back--
donny		How come you don't roll on Saturday, Walter?
walter		I'm shomer shabbas.
donny		What's that, Walter?
dude		Yeah, and in the meantime what do I tell Lebowski?
walter		Saturday is shabbas.  Jewish day of rest.  Means I don't work, I don't drive a car, I don't fucking ride in a car, I don't handle money, I don't turn on the oven, and I sure as shit don't fucking roll!
donny		Sheesh.
dude		Walter, how--
walter		Shomer shabbas.
dude		That's it.  I'm out of here.
walter		For Christ's sake, Dude.
donny		Oh yeah, how'd it go?
walter		Went alright.  Dude's car got a little dinged up--
dude		But Walter, we didn't make the fucking hand- off!  They didn't get, the fucking money and they're gonna-- they're gonna--
walter		Yeah yeah, "kill that poor woman."
walter		Kill that poor woman.
donny		Walter, if you can't ride in a car, how d'you get around on Shammas--
walter		Really, Dude, you surprise me. They're not gonna kill shit.  They're not gonna do shit.  What can they do?  Fuckin' amateurs.  And meanwhile, look at the bottom line.  Who's sitting on a million fucking dollars? Am I wrong?
dude		Walter--
walter		Who's got a fucking million fucking dollars parked in the trunk of our car out here?
dude		"Our" car, Walter?
walter		And what do they got, Dude?  My dirty undies.  My fucking whites--Say, where is  the car?
donny		Who has your undies, Walter?
walter		Where's your car, Dude?
dude		You don't know, Walter?  You seem to know the answer to everything else!
walter		Hmm.  Well, we were in a handicapped spot.  It, uh, it was probably towed.
dude		It's been stolen, Walter!  You fucking know it's been stolen!
walter		Well, certainly that's a possibility, Dude--
dude		Aw, fuck it.
donny		Where you going, Dude?
dude		I'm going home, Donny.
donny		Your phone's ringing, Dude.
dude		Thank you, Donny.
dude		1972 Pontiac LeBaron.
younger cop		Color?
dude		Green.  Some brown, or, uh, rust, coloration.
younger cop		And was there anything of value in the car?
dude		Huh?  Oh.  Yeah.  Tape deck.  Couple of Creedence tapes.  And there was a, uh. . . my briefcase.
younger cop		In the briefcase?
dude		Papers.  Just papers.  You know, my papers.  Business papers.
younger cop		And what do you do, sir?
dude		I'm unemployed.
older cop		...Most people, we're working nights, they offer us coffee.
dude		...Me, I don't drink coffee.  But it's nice when they offer.
dude		...Also, my rug was stolen.
younger cop		Your rug was in the car.
dude		No.  Here.
younger cop		Separate incidents?
older cop		Snap out of it, son.
dude		You find them much?  Stolen cars?
younger cop		Sometimes.  I wouldn't hold out much hope for the tape deck though.  Or the Creedence tapes.
dude		And the, uh, the briefcase?
older cop		Well, I guess we can close the file on that one.
voice		I'll be with you in a minute, Mr. Lebowski.
dude		Is that what that's a picture of?
maude		In a sense, yes.  Elfranco, my robe. My art has been commended as being strongly vaginal.  Which bothers some men.  The word itself makes some men uncomfortable.  Vagina.
dude		Oh yeah?
maude		Yes, they don't like hearing it and find it difficult to say.  Whereas without batting an eye a man will refer to his "dick" or his "rod" or his "Johnson".
dude		"Johnson"?
maude		Thank you.
dude		Huh?
maude		Yes, I know about it.  And I know that you acted as courier.  And let me tell you something:  the whole thing stinks to high heaven.
dude		Right, but let me explain something about that rug--
maude		Do you like sex, Mr. Lebowski?
dude		Excuse me?
maude		Sex.  The physical act of love. Coitus.  Do you like it?
dude		I was talking about my rug.
maude		You're not interested in sex?
dude		You mean coitus?
maude		I like it too.  It's a male myth about feminists that we hate sex. It can be a natural, zesty enterprise. But unfortunately there are some people--it is called satyriasis in men, nymphomania in women--who engage in it compulsively and without joy.
dude		Oh, no.
maude		Yes Mr. Lebowski, these unfortunate souls cannot love in the true sense of the word.  Our mutual acquaintance Bunny is one of these.
dude		Listen, Maude, I'm sorry if your stepmother is a nympho, but I don't see what it has to do with--do you have any kalhua?
maude		Take a look at this, sir.
dieter		Hello.  Nein dizbatcher says zere iss problem mit deine kable.
dude		Shit, I know that guy.  He's a nihilist.
maude		And you recognize her, of course.
dieter		Za, okay, I bring mein toolz.
maude		 The story is ludicrous.
dieter		Mein nommen iss Karl.  Is hard to verk in zese clozes--
maude		Lord.  You can imagine where it goes from here.
dude		He fixes the cable?
maude		Don't be fatuous, Jeffrey.  Little matter to me that this woman chose to pursue a career
dude		Shit yeah, the achievers.
maude		Little Lebowski Urban Achievers, yes, and proud we are of all of them. I asked my father about his withdrawal of a million dollars from the Foundation account and he told me about this "abduction", but I tell you it is preposterous.  This compulsive
dude		Yeah, but my-
maude		I'm getting to your rug. My  father and I don't get along; he doesn't approve of my lifestyle and, needless to say, I don't approve of his. Still, I hardly wish to make my father's embezzlement a police matter, so I'm proposing that you try to recover the money from the people you delivered it to.
dude		Well--sure, I could do that--
maude		If you successfully do so, I will compensate you to the tune of 1% of the recovered sum.
dude		A hundred.
maude		Thousand, yes, bones or clams or whatever you call them.
dude		Yeah, but what about--
maude		--your rug, yes, well with that money you can buy any number of rugs that don't have sentimental value for me. And I am sorry about that crack on the jaw.
dude		Oh that's okay, I hardly even--
maude		Here's the name and number of a doctor who will look at it for you.  You will receive no bill.  He's a good man, and thorough.
dude		That's really thoughtful but I--
maude		Please see him, Jeffrey.  He's a good man, and thorough.
driver		--So he says, "My son can't hold a job, my daughter's married to a fuckin' loser, and I got a rash on my ass so bad I can't hardly siddown. But you know me.  I can't complain."
dude		Fuckin' A, man.  I got a rash. Fuckin' A, man.  I gotta tell ya Tony.
tony		Aw, forget about it.
dude		Yeah, man!  Fuck it!  I can't be worrying about that shit.  Life goes on!
tony		Home sweet home, Mr. L.  Who's your friend in the Volkswagon?
dude		Huh?
dude		When did he-
second chauffeur		Into the limo, you sonofabitch.  No arguments.
dude		Fuck, man!  There's a beverage here!
lebowski		Start talking and talk fast you lousy bum!
brandt		We've been frantically trying to reach you, Dude.
lebowski		Where's my goddamn money, you bum?!
dude		Well we--I don't--
lebowski		They did not receive the money, you nitwit!  They  did not receive the goddamn money.  HER LIFE WAS IN YOUR HANDS!
brandt		This is our concern, Dude.
dude		No, man, nothing is fucked here--
lebowski		NOTHING IS FUCKED! THE GODDAMN PLANE HAS CRASHED INTO THE MOUNTAIN!
dude		C'mon man, who're you gonna believe? Those guys are--we dropped off the damn money--
lebowski		WHAT?!
dude		I--the royal we, you know, the editorial--I dropped off the money, exactly as per--Look, I've got certain information, certain things have come to light, and uh, has it ever occurred to you, man, that given the nature of all this new shit, that, uh, instead of running around blaming me, that this whole thing might just be, not, you know, not just such a simple, but uh--you know?
lebowski		What in God's holy name are you blathering about?
dude		I'll tell you what I'm blathering about!  I got information--new shit has come to light and--shit, man! She kidnapped herself!
dude		Well sure, look at it!  Young trophy wife, I mean, in the parlance of our times, owes money all over town, including to known pornographers-- and that's cool, that's cool-- but I'm saying, she needs money, and of course they're gonna say they didn't get it 'cause she wants more, man, she's gotta feed the monkey, I mean-- hasn't that ever occurred to you...? Sir?
lebowski		 No.  No Mr. Lebowski, that had not occurred to me.
brandt		That had not occurred to us, Dude.
dude		Well, okay, you're not privy to all the new shit, so uh, you know, but that's what you pay me for.  Speaking of which, would it be possible for me to get my twenty grand in cash? I gotta check this with my accountant of course, but my concern is that, you know, it could bump me into a higher tax--
lebowski		Brandt, give him the envelope.
dude		Well, okay, if you've already made out the check.  Brandt is handing him a letter-sized envelope which is distended by something inside.
brandt		We received it this morning.
lebowski		Since you have failed to achieve, even in the modest task that was your charge, since you have stolen my money, and since you have unrepentantly betrayed my trust.
lebowski		I have no choice but to tell these bums that they should do whatever is necessary to recover their money from you, Jeffrey Lebowski.  And with Brandt as my witness, tell you this:  Any further harm visited upon Bunny, shall be visited tenfold upon your head.
lebowski		...By God sir.  I will not abide another toe.
walter		That wasn't her toe.
dude		Whose toe was it, Walter?
walter		How the fuck should I know?  I do know that nothing about it indicates--
dude		The nail polish, Walter.
walter		Fine, Dude.  As if it's impossible to get some nail polish, apply it to someone else's toe--
dude		Someone else's--where the fuck are they gonna--
walter		You want a toe?  I can get you a toe, believe me.  There are ways, Dude.  You don't wanna know about it, believe me.
dude		But Walter--
walter		I'll  get  you  a  toe by  this afternoon--with nail  polish. These fucking amateurs.   They send us a toe, we're  supposed to  shit our- selves with fear.  Jesus Christ. My point is--
dude		They're gonna kill her, Walter, and then they're gonna kill me--
walter		Well that's just, that's the stress talking, Dude.  So far we have what looks to me like a series of victimless crimes--
dude		What about the toe?
walter		FORGET ABOUT THE FUCKING TOE!
waitress		Could you please keep your voices down--this is a family restaurant.
walter		Oh, please dear!  I've got news for you: the Supreme Court has roundly rejected prior restraint!
dude		Walter, this isn't a First Amendment thing.
waitress		Sir, if you don't calm down I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
walter		Lady, I got buddies who died face- down in the muck so you and I could enjoy this family restaurant!
dude		All right, I'm leaving.  I'm sorry ma'am.
walter		Don't run away from this, Dude! Goddamnit, this affects all of us!
walter		Our basic freedoms!
walter		I'm staying.  Finishing my coffee.
walter		Finishing my coffee.
dude		Far out.  Far fuckin' out.
message		You'll just need to present a--
dude		Hunh?
dude		Hey!  This is a private residence, man!
dude		Nice marmot.
first man		Vee vant zat money, Lebowski.
second man		You think veer kidding und making mit de funny stuff?
third man		Vee could do things you only dreamed of, Lebowski.
second man		Ja, vee could really do it, Lebowski. Vee belief in nossing.
dude		Jesus!
dieter		Vee belief in nossing, Lebowski! NOSSING!!
dude		Jesus Christ!
first man		Tomorrow vee come back und cut off your chonson.
dude		Excuse me?
first man		I SAY VEE CUT OFF YOUR CHONSON!
second man		Just sink about zat, Lebowski.
first man		Ja, your viggly penis, Lebowski.
second man		Ja, und maybe vee stamp on it und skvush it, Lebowski!
policeman		You're lucky she wasn't chopped, Mr. Lebowski. Must've been a joyride situation; they abandoned the car once they hit the retaining wall.
policeman		These were on the road next to the car.  You'll have to get in on the other side.
dude		My fucking briefcase!  It's not here!
policeman		Yeah, sorry, I saw that on the report. You're lucky they left the tape deck though.
dude		My fucking briefcase!  Jesus--what's that smell?
policeman		Uh, yeah.  Probably a vagrant, slept in the car.  Or perhaps just used it as a toilet, and moved on.
dude		When will you find these guys?  I mean, do you have any promising leads?
policeman		Leads, yeah.  I'll just check with the boys down at the Crime Lab. They've assigned four more detectives to the case, got us working in shifts.
donny		And then they're gonna stamp on it?!
walter		Oh for Christ--will you shut the fuck up, Donny.
dude		I figure my only hope is that the big Lebowski kills me before the Germans can cut my dick off.
walter		Now that is ridiculous, Dude.  No one is going to cut your dick off.
dude		Thanks Walter.
walter		Not if I have anything to say about it.
dude		 Yeah, thanks Walter.  That gives me a very secure feeling.
walter		Dude--
dude		That makes me feel all warm inside.
walter		Now Dude--
dude		This whole fucking thing--I  could be sitting here with just pee-stains on my rug.
walter		Fucking Germans.  Nothing changes. Fucking Nazis.
donny		They were Nazis, Dude?
walter		Come on, Donny, they were threatening castration!
donny		Uh-huh.
walter		Are you gonna split hairs?
donny		No--
walter		Am I wrong?
donny		Well--
dude		They're nihilists.
walter		Huh?
dude		They kept saying they believe in nothing.
walter		Nihilists!  Jesus.
dude		Yeah.
walter		And let's also not forget--let's not forget, Dude--that keeping wildlife, an amphibious rodent, for uh, domestic, you know, within the city-- that isn't legal either.
dude		What're you, a fucking park ranger now?
walter		No, I'm--
dude		Who gives a shit about the fucking marmot!
walter		--We're sympathizing here, Dude--
dude		Fuck your sympathy!  I don't need your sympathy, man, I need my fucking Johnson!
donny		What do you need that for, Dude?
walter		You gotta buck up, man, you can't go into the tournament with this negative attitude--
dude		Fuck the tournament!  Fuck you, Walter!
walter		Fuck the tournament?!
walter		Okay Dude.  I can see you don't want to be cheered up.  C'mon Donny, let's go get a lane.
dude		Another Caucasian, Gary.
voice		Right, Dude.
dude		Friends like these, huh Gary.
gary		That's right, Dude.
man		D'ya have a good sarsaparilla?
bartender		Sioux City Sarsaparilla.
the stranger		That's a good one.
the stranger		How ya doin' there, Dude?
dude		Ahh, not so good, man.
the stranger		One a those days, huh.  Wal, a wiser fella than m'self once said, sometimes you eat the bar and sometimes the bar, wal, he eats you.
dude		 Uh-huh.  That some kind of Eastern thing?
the stranger		Far from it.
dude		Mm.
the stranger		Much obliged.
the stranger		I like your style, Dude.
dude		Well I like your style too, man. Got a whole cowboy thing goin'.
the stranger		Thankie. . . Just one thing, Dude. D'ya have to use s'many cuss words?
dude		The fuck are you talking about?
the stranger		Okay, have it your way.
the stranger		Take it easy, Dude.
dude		Yeah.  Thanks man.
voice		Dude!  Dude!
maude		Jeffrey, you haven't gone to the doctor.
dude		No it's fine, really, uh--
maude		Do you have any news regarding my father's money?
dude		I, uh... money, yeah, I gotta respecfully, 69 you know, tender my resignation on that matter, 'cause it looks like your mother really was kidnapped after all.
maude		She most certainly was not!
dude		Hey man, why don't you fucking listen occasionally?  You might learn something.  Now I got--
maude		And please don't call her my mother.
dude		Now I got--
maude		She is most definitely the perpetrator and not the victim.
dude		I'm telling you, I got definitive evidence--
maude		From who?
dude		The main guy, Dieter--
maude		Dieter Hauff?
dude		Well--yeah, I guess--
maude		Her "co-star" in the beaver picture?
dude		Beaver?  You mean vagina?--I mean, you know him?
maude		Dieter has been on the fringes of-- well, of everything in L.A., for about twenty years.  Look at my LP's. Under 'Autobahn.'
maude		That was his group--they released one album in the mid-seventies.
dude		Roy Orbison. . . Pink Floyd.
maude		Huh?  Autobahn.  A-u-t-o.  Their music is a sort of--ugh--techno-pop.
dude		Jeez.  I miss vinyl.
maude		Is he pretending to be the abductor?
dude		Well...yeah--
maude		Look, Jeffrey, you don't really kidnap someone that you're acquainted with.  You can't get away with it if the hostage knows who you are.
dude		Well yeah...I know that.
maude		So Dieter has the money?
dude		Well, no, not exactly.  It's a complicated case, Maude.  Lotta ins. Lotta outs.  And a lotta strands to keep in my head, man.  Lotta strands in old Duder's--
maude		Do you still have that doctor's number?
dude		Huh?  No, really, I don't even have the bruise any more, I--
maude		Please Jeffrey.  I don't want to be responsible for any delayed after- effects.
dude		Delayed after-eff--
maude		I want you to see him immediately.
maude		I'll see if he's available.  He's a good man, and thorough.
voice		Could you slide your shorts down please, Mr.  Lebowski?
dude		Huh?  No, she, she hit me right here.
voice		I understand sir.  Could you slide your shorts down please?
dude		Fuck Me.
dude		Fuckola, man.
walter		He lives in North Hollywood on Radford, near the In-and-Out Burger--
dude		The In-and-Out Burger is on Camrose.
walter		Near the In-and-Out Burger--
donny		Those are good burgers, Walter.
walter		Shut the fuck up, Donny.  This kid is in the ninth grade, Dude, and his father is--are you ready for this?-- Arthur Digby Sellers.
dude		Who the fuck is that?
walter		Huh?
dude		Who the fuck is Arthur Digby Sellers?
walter		Who the f--have you ever heard of a little show called Branded, Dude?
dude		Yeah.
walter		All but one man died?  There at Bitter Creek?
dude		Yeah yeah, I know the fucking show Walter, so what?
walter		Fucking Arthur Digby Sellers wrote 156 episodes, Dude.
dude		Uh-huh.
walter		The bulk of the series.
dude		Uh-huh.
walter		Not exactly a lightweight.
dude		No.
walter		And yet his son is a fucking dunce.
dude		Uh.
walter		Yeah, go figure.  Well we'll go out there after the, uh, the.
walter		What have you.  We'll, uh--
donny		We'll be near the In-and-Out Burger.
walter		Shut the fuck up, Donny.  We'll, uh, brace the kid--he'll be a pushover. We'll get that fucking money, if he hasn't spent it already.  Million fucking clams. And yes, we'll be near the, uh--some burgers, some beers, a few laughs.  Our fucking troubles are over, Dude.
dude		Fuck me, man!  That kid's already spent all the money!
walter		Hardly Dude, a new 'vette?  The kid's still got, oh, 96 to 97 thousand, depending on the options.  Wait in the car, Donny.
woman		Jace?
walter		Hello, Pilar?  My name is Walter Sobchak, we spoke on the phone, this is my associate Jeffrey Lebowski.
woman		Jace.
walter		May we uh, we wanted to talk about little Larry.  May we come in?
woman		Jace.
pilar		Larry!  Sweetie!  Dat mang is here!
walter		That's him, Dude.
viva voce		And a good day to you, sir.
pilar		See down, please.
walter		Thank you, ma'am.
walter		Does he, uh. . . Is he still writing?
pilar		No, no.  He has healt' problems.
walter		Uh-huh.
walter		I just want to say, sir, that we're both enormous--on a personal level, Branded, especially the early episodes, has been a source of, uh, inspir---
pilar		See down, Sweetie.  These are the policeman--
walter		No ma'am, I didn't mean to give the impression that we're police exactly. We're hoping that it will not be necessary to call the police.
walter		But that is up to little Larry here. Isn't it, Larry?
walter		Is this your homework, Larry?
walter		Is this your homework, Larry?
dude		Look, man, did you--
walter		Dude, please!. . .  Is this your homework, Larry?
dude		Just ask him if he--ask him about the car, man!
walter		Is this yours, Larry?  Is this your homework, Larry?
dude		Is the car out front yours?
walter		Is this your homework, Larry?
dude		We know it's his fucking homework, Walter!  Where's the fucking money, you little brat?
walter		Look, Larry. . . Have you ever heard of Vietnam?
dude		Oh, for Christ's sake, Walter!
walter		You're going to enter a world of pain, son.  We know that this is your homework.  We know you stole a car--
dude		And the fucking money!
walter		And the fucking money.  And we know that this is your homework, Larry.
walter		You're gonna KILL your FATHER, Larry!.
walter		Ah, this is pointless.
walter		All right, Plan B.  You might want to watch out the front window there, Larry.
walter		This is what happens when you FUCK a STRANGER in the ASS, Larry.
walter		Fucking language problem, Dude.
walter		Maybe he'll understand this.
walter		YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENS, LARRY!
walter		YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENS?!
walter		THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU FUCK A STRANGER IN THE ASS!
walter		HERE'S WHAT HAPPENS, LARRY!
walter		HERE'S WHAT HAPPENS!  FUCK A STRANGER IN THE ASS!
man		WHAT THE FUCK JOO DOING, MANG?!
man		I JUS' BAWDEEZ FUCKEEN CAR LASS WEEK!
walter		Hunh?
man		I KILL JOO, MANG!  I--I KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
dude		No!  No!  NO!  THAT'S NOT--
man		I FUCKEEN KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
man		I KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
man		I KILL JOR FUCKEEN CAR!
dude		I accept your apology. . . No I, I just want to handle it myself from now on. . . No.  That has nothing to do with it. . . .Yes, it made it home, I'm calling from home.  No, Walter, it didn't look like Larry was about to crack.
dude		Well that's your perception. . . Well you're right, Walter, and the unspoken Message is FUCK YOU AND LEAVE ME THE FUCK ALONE. . . Yeah, I'll be at practice.
dude		Huh?
woo		Pin your diapers on, Lebowski.  Jackie Treehorn wants to see you.
blond man		And we know which Lebowski you are, Lebowski.
woo		Yeah.  Jackie Treehorn wants to talk to the deadbeat Lebowski.
blond man		You're not dealing with morons here.
man		Hello Dude, thanks for coming.  I'm Jackie Treehorn.
dude		This is quite a pad you got here, man.  Completely unspoiled.
treehorn		What's your drink, Dude?
dude		White Russian, thanks.  How's the smut business, Jackie?
treehorn		I wouldn't know, Dude.  I deal in publishing, entertainment, political advocacy, and--
dude		Which one was Logjammin'?
treehorn		Regrettably, it's true, standards have fallen in adult entertainment. It's video, Dude.  Now that we're competing with the amateurs, we can't afford to invest that little extra in story, production value, feeling.
treehorn		People forget that the brain is the biggest erogenous zone--
dude		On you, maybe.
treehorn		Of course, you do get the good with the bad.  The new technology permits us to do exciting things with interactive erotic software.  Wave of the future, Dude.  100% electronic.
dude		Uh-huh.  Well, I still jerk off manually.
treehorn		Of course you do.  I can see you're anxious for me to get to the point. Well Dude, here it is.  Where's Bunny?
dude		I thought you might know, man.
treehorn		Me?  How would I know?  The only reason she ran off was to get away from her rather sizable debt to me.
dude		But she hasn't run off, she's been--
treehorn		I've heard the kidnapping story, so save it.  I know you're mixed up in all this, Dude, and I don't care what you're trying to take off her husband.  That's your business.  All I'm saying is, I want mine.
dude		Yeah, well, right man, there are many facets to this, uh, you know, many interested parties.  If I can find your money, man-- what's in it for the Dude?
treehorn		Of course, there's that to discuss. Refill?
dude		Does the Pope shit in the woods?
treehorn		Let's say a 10% finder's fee?
dude		Okay, Jackie, done.  I like the way you do business.  Your money is being held by a kid named Larry Sellers. He lives in North Hollywood, on Radford, near the In-and-Out Burger. A real fuckin' brat, but I'm sure your goons'll be able to get it off him, mean he's only fifteen and he's flunking social studies.  So if you'll just write me a check for my ten per cent. . . of half a million. . . fifty grand.
dude		I'll go out and mingle.--Jesus, you mix a hell of a Caucasian, Jackie.
treehorn		A fifteen-year-old?  Is this your idea of a joke?
dude		No funny stuff, Jackie. . . the kid's got it.  Hiya, fellas. . . kid just wanted a car.  All the Dude ever wanted. . . was his rug back. . . not greedy. . . it really.
dude		He was innocent.  Not a charge was true.  And they say he ran awaaaaaay.
chief		This is your only I.D.?
chief		You don't know shit, Lebowski.
dude		I want a fucking lawyer, man.  I want Bill Kunstler.
chief		What are you, some kind of sad-assed refugee from the fucking sixties?
dude		Uh-huh.
chief		Mr. Treehorn tells us that he had to eject you from his garden party, that you were drunk and abusive.
dude		That guy treats women like objects, man.
chief		Mr. Treehorn draws a lot of water in this town, Lebowski.  You don't draw shit.  We got a nice quiet beach community here, and I aim to keep it nice and quiet.  So let me make something plain.  I don't like you sucking around bothering our citizens, Lebowski.  I don't like your jerk- off name, I don't like your jerk-off face, I don't like your jerk- off behavior, and I don't like you, jerk- off --do I make myself clear?
dude		I'm sorry, I wasn't listening.
dude		--Ow!  Fucking fascist!
chief		Stay out of Malibu, Lebowski!
chief		Stay out of Malibu, deadbeat!  Keep your ugly fucking goldbricking ass out of my beach community!
dude		Jesus, man, can you change the station?
driver		Fuck you man!  You don't like my fucking music, get your own fucking cab!
dude		I've had a--
driver		I pull over and kick your ass out, man!
dude		--had a rough night, and I hate the fucking Eagles, man--
driver		That's it!  Outta this fucking cab!
dude		Jesus.
maude		Jeffrey.
dude		Maude?
maude		Love me.
dude		That's my robe.
maude		Tell me a little about yourself, Jeffrey.
dude		Well, uh. . . Not much to tell.
dude		I was, uh, one of the authors of the Port Huron Statement.--The original Port Huron Statement.
maude		Uh-huh.
dude		Not the compromised second draft. And then I, uh. . . Ever hear of the Seattle Seven?
maude		Mmnun.
dude		And then. . . let's see, I uh--music business briefly.
maude		Oh?
dude		Yeah.  Roadie for Metallica.  Speed of Sound Tour.
maude		Uh-huh.
dude		Bunch of assholes.  And then, you know, little of this, little of that. My career's, uh, slowed down a bit lately.
maude		What do you do for fun?
dude		Oh, you know, the usual.  Bowl. Drive around.  The occasional acid flashback.
maude		What happened to your house?
dude		Jackie Treehorn trashed the place. Wanted to save the finder's fee.
maude		Finder's fee?
dude		He thought I had your father's money, so he got me out of the way while he looked for it.
maude		It's not my father's money, it's the Foundation's.  Why did he think you had it?  And who does?
dude		Larry Sellers, a high-school kid. Real fucking brat.
maude		Jeffrey--
dude		It's a complicated case, Maude. Lotta ins, lotta outs.  Fortunately I've been adhering to a pretty strict, uh, drug regimen to keep my mind, you know, limber.  I'm real fucking close to your father's money, real fucking close.  It's just--
maude		I keep telling you, it's the Foundation's money.  Father doesn't have any.
dude		Huh?  He's fucking loaded.
maude		No no, the wealth was all Mother's.
dude		But your father--he runs stuff, he--
maude		We did let Father run one of the companies, briefly, but he didn't do very well at it.
dude		But he's--
maude		He helps administer the charities now, and I give him a reasonable allowance.  He has no money of his own.  I know how he likes to present himself; Father's weakness is vanity. Hence the slut.
dude		Huh.  Jeez.  Well, so, did he--is that yoga?
maude		It increases the chances of conception.
dude		Increases?
maude		Well yes, what did you think this was all about?  Fun and games?
dude		Well...no, of course not--
maude		I want a child.
dude		Yeah, okay, but see, the Dude--
maude		Look, Jeffrey, I don't want a partner. In fact I don't want the father to be someone I have to see socially, or who'll have any interest in rearing the child himself.
dude		Huh...
dude		So...that doctor.
maude		Exactly.  What happened to your face? Did Jackie Treehorn do that as well?
dude		No, the, uh, police chief of Malibu. A real reactionary. . . So your father. . . Oh man, I get it!
maude		What?
dude		Yeah, my thinking about the case, man, it had become uptight.  Yeah. Your father--
phone voice		This is Walter Sobchak.  I'm not in; leave a message after the beep.
maude's voice		What're you talking about?
dude		Walter, if you're there, pick up the fucking phone.  Pick it up, Walter, this is an emergency.  I'm not--
walter		Dude?
dude		Walter, listen, I'm at my place, I need you to come pick me up--
walter		I can't drive, Dude, it's erev shabbas.
dude		Huh?
walter		Erev shabbas.  I can't drive.  I'm not even supposed to pick up the phone, unless it's an emergency.
dude		It is a fucking emergency.
walter		I understand.  That's why I picked up the phone.
dude		THEN WHY CAN'T YOU--fuck, never mind, just call Donny then, and ask him to--
walter		Dude, I'm not supposed to make calls--
dude		WALTER, YOU FUCKING ASSHOLE, WE GOTTA GO TO PASADENA!  COME  PICK ME UP OR I'M OFF THE FUCKING BOWLING TEAM!
maude's voice		Jeffrey?
dude		Get out of that fucking car, man!
dude		Who the fuck are you, man!  Come on, man!
man		Relax, man!  No physical harm intended!
dude		Who the fuck are you?  Why've you been following me?  Come on, fuckhead!
man		Hey, relax man, I'm a brother shamus.
dude		Brother Shamus?  Like an Irish monk?
man		Irish m--What the fuck are you talking about?  My name's Da Fino!  I'm a private snoop!  Like you, man!
dude		Huh?
da fino		A dick, man!  And let me tell you something: I dig your work. Playing one side against the other--in bed with everybody--fabulous stuff, man.
dude		I'm not a--ah, fuck it, just stay away from my fucking lady friend, man.
da fino		Hey hey, I'm not messing with your special lady--
dude		She's not my special lady, she's my fucking lady friend.  I'm just helping her conceive, man!
da fino		Hey, man, I'm not--
dude		Who're you working for?  Lebowski? Jackie Treehorn?
da fino		The Gundersons.
dude		The?  Who the fff--
da fino		The Gundersons.  It's a wandering daughter job.  Bunny Lebowski, man. Her real name is Fawn Gunderson. Her parents want her back.
da fino		See?
dude		Jesus fucking Christ.
da fino		Crazy, huh?  Ran away a year ago.
dude		Boy.  How ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm once they seen Karl Hungus.
da fino		Fuck, man!  That's terrible!
dude		Yeah, it sucks.
da fino		Well maybe you and me could pool our resources--trade information-- professional courtesy--compeers, you know--
dude		Yeah, I get it.  Fuck off, Da Fino. And stay away from my special la-- from my fucking lady friend.
waitress		You folks ready?
dieter		I haff lingenberry pancakes.
kieffer		Lingenberry pancakes.
franz		Sree picks in blanket.
dieter		Lingenberry pancakes.
dude		I mean we totally fucked it up, man. We fucked up his pay-off.  And got the kidnappers all pissed off, and the big Lebowski yelled at me a lot, but he didn't do anything.  Huh?
walter		Well it's, sometimes the cathartic, uh.
dude		I'm saying if he knows I'm a fuck- up, then why does he still leave me in charge of getting back his wife? Because he fucking doesn't want her back, man!  He's had enough!  He no longer digs her!  It's all a show! But then, why didn't he give a shit about his million bucks?  I mean, he knew we didn't hand off his briefcase, but he never asked for it back.
walter		What's your point, Dude?
dude		His million bucks was never in it, man!  There was no money in that briefcase!  He was hoping they'd kill her!  You throw out a ringer for a ringer!
walter		Yeah?
dude		Shit yeah!
walter		Okay, but how does all this add up to an emergency?
dude		Huh?
walter		I'm saying, I see what you're getting at, Dude, he kept the money, but my point is, here we are, it's shabbas, the sabbath, which I'm allowed to break only if it's a matter of life and death--
dude		Walter, come off it.  You're not even fucking Jewish, you're--
walter		What the fuck are you talking about?
dude		You're fucking Polish Catholic--
walter		What the fuck are you talking about? I converted when I married Cynthia! Come on, Dude!
dude		Yeah, and you were--
walter		You know this!
dude		And you were divorced five fucking years ago.
walter		Yeah?  What do you think happens when you get divorced?  You turn in your library card?  Get a new driver's license?  Stop being Jewish?
dude		This driveway.
walter		I'm as Jewish as fucking Tevye
dude		It's just part of your whole sick Cynthia thing.  Taking care of her fucking dog.  Going to her fucking synagogue.  You're living in the fucking past.
walter		Three thousand years of beautiful tradition, from Moses to Sandy Koufax-- YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT I LIVE IN THE PAST!   I--Jesus.  What the hell happened?
walter		Jesus Christ.
brandt		He can't see you, Dude.
dude		Where'd she been?
brandt		Visiting friends of hers in Palm Springs.  Just picked up and left, never bothered to tell us.
dude		But I guess she told Dieter.
walter		Jesus, Dude!  He never even kidnapped her.
brandt		Who's this gentleman, Dude?
walter		Who'm I?  I'm a fucking VETERAN!
brandt		You shouldn't go in there, Dude! He's very angry!
lebowski		 Well, she's back.  No thanks to you.
dude		Where's the money, Lebowski?
walter		A MILLION BUCKS FROM FUCKING NEEDY LITTLE URBAN ACHIEVERS!  YOU ARE SCUM, MAN!
lebowski		Who the hell is he?
walter		I'll tell you who I am!  I'm the guy who's gonna KICK YOUR PHONY GOLDBRICKING ASS!
dude		We know the briefcase was empty, man.  We know you kept the million bucks yourself.
lebowski		Well, you have your story, I have mine.  I say I entrusted the money to you, and you stole it.
walter		AS IF WE WOULD EVER DREAM OF TAKING YOUR BULLSHIT MONEY!
dude		You thought Bunny'd been kidnapped and you could use it as a pretext to make some money disappear.  All you needed was a sap to pin it on, and you'd just met me.  You thought, hey, a deadbeat, a loser, someone the square community won't give a shit about.
lebowski		Well?  Aren't you?
dude		Well. . . yeah.
lebowski		All right, get out.  Both of you.
walter		Look at that fucking phony, Dude! Pretending to be a fucking millionaire!
lebowski		I said out.  Now.
walter		Let me tell you something else. I've seen a lot of spinals, Dude, and this guy is a fake.  A fucking goldbricker.
walter		This guy fucking walks.  I've never been more certain of anything in my life!
lebowski		Stay away from me, mister!
walter		Walk, you fucking phony!
lebowski		Put me down, you son of a bitch!
dude		Walter!
walter		It's all over, man!  We call your fucking bluff!
dude		WALTER, FOR CHRIST'S SAKE!  HE'S CRIPPLED!  PUT HIM DOWN!
walter		Sure, I'll put him down, Dude.  RAUSS! ACHTUNG, BABY!!
walter		Oh, shit.
lebowski		 You're bullies!  Cowards, both of you!
walter		Oh, shit.
dude		He can't walk, Walter!
walter		Yeah, I can see that, Dude.
lebowski		You monsters!
dude		Help me put him back in his chair.
walter		Shit, sorry man.
lebowski		Stay away from me!  You bullies! You and these women!  You won't leave a man his fucking balls!
dude		Walter, you fuck!
walter		Shit, Dude, I didn't know.  I wouldn't've done it if I knew he was a fucking crybaby.
dude		We're sorry, man.  We're really sorry.
dude		There ya go.  Sorry man.
walter		Shit.  He didn't look like a spinal.
walter		Sure you'll see some tank battles. But fighting in desert is very different from fighting in canopy jungle.
dude		Uh-huh.
walter		I mean 'Nam was a foot soldier's war whereas, uh, this thing should be a fucking cakewalk.  I mean I had an M16, Jacko, not an Abrams fucking tank.  Just me and Charlie, man, eyeball to eyeball.
dude		Yeah.
walter		That's fuckin' combat.  The man in the black pyjamas, Dude.  Worthy fuckin' adversary.
donny		Who's in pyjamas, Walter?
walter		Shut the fuck up, Donny.  Not a bunch of fig-eaters with towels on their heads tryin' to find reverse on a Soviet tank.  This is not a worthy--
voice		HEY!
quintana		What's this "day of rest" shit, man?!
quintana		What is this bullshit, man?  I don't fucking care!  It don't matter to Jesus!  But you're not fooling me! You might fool the fucks in the league office, but you don't fool Jesus! It's bush league psych-out stuff! Laughable, man!  I would've fucked you in the ass Saturday, I'll fuck you in the ass next Wednesday instead!
quintana		You got a date Wednesday, man!
walter		He's cracking.
walter		A tree of life, Dude.  To all who cling to it.
dude		They finally did it.  They killed my fucking car.
dieter		Vee vant zat money, Lebowski.
kieffer		Ja, uzzervize vee kill ze girl.
franz		Ja, it seems you forgot our little deal, Lebowski.
dude		You don't have the fucking girl, dipshits.  We know you never did. So you've got nothin' on my Johnson.
donny		Are these the Nazis, Walter?
walter		They're nihilists, Donny, nothing to be afraid of.
dieter		Vee don't care.  Vee still vant zat money or vee fuck you up.
kieffer		Ja, vee still vant ze money.  Vee sreaten you.
walter		Fuck you.  Fuck the three of you.
dude		Hey, cool it Walter.
walter		There's no ransom if you don't have a fucking hostage.  That's what ransom is.  Those are the fucking rules.
dieter		Zere ARE no ROOLZ!
walter		NO RULES!  YOU CABBAGE-EATING SONS- OF- BITCHES--
kieffer		His girlfriend gafe up her toe!  She sought we'd be getting million dollars!  Iss not fair!
walter		Fair!  WHO'S THE FUCKING NIHILIST HERE!  WHAT ARE YOU, A BUNCH OF FUCKING CRYBABIES?!
dude		Hey, cool it Walter.  Listen, pal, there never was any money.  The big Lebowski gave me an empty briefcase, man, so take it up with him.
walter		AND I'D LIKE MY UNDIES BACK!
donny		Are they gonna hurt us, Walter?
walter		They won't hurt us, Donny.  These men are cowards.
dieter		Okay.  Vee take ze money you haf on you und vee call it eefen.
walter		Fuck you.
dude		Come on, Walter, we're ending this thing cheap.
walter		What's mine is mine.
dude		Come on, Walter!.
dude		Four dollars here!
dude		Almost five!
donny		 I got eighteen dollars, Dude.
walter		 What's mine is mine.
dieter		VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN!  VEE TAKE YOUR MONEY!
walter		 Come and get it.
dieter		VEE FUCK YOU UP, MAN!
walter		Come and get it.  Fucking nihilist.
dieter		I FUCK YOU!  I FUCK YOU!
walter		Show me what you got.  Nihilist. Dipshit with a nine-toed woman.
dieter		I FUCK YOU!  I FUCK YOU!
dieter		I FUCK YOU!  YOU CANNOT HURT ME!  I BELIEF IN NUSSING!
franz		VEAKLING!
dieter		NUSSING!
walter		ANTI-SEMITE!
walter		We've got a man down, Dude.
dude		Hy God!  They shot him, Walter!
walter		No Dude.
dude		They shot Donny!
walter		There weren't any shots.
dude		Then what's...
walter		It's a heart attack.
dude		Wha.
walter		Call the medics, Dude.
dude		Wha. . . Donny--
walter		Hurry Dude.  I'd go but I'm pumping blood.  Might pass out.
walter		Rest easy, good buddy, you're doing fine.  We got help choppering in.
man		Hello, gentlemen.  You are the bereaved?
dude		Yeah man.
man		Francis Donnelly.  Pleased to meet you.
dude		Jeffrey Lebowski.
walter		Walter Sobchak.
dude		The Dude, actually.  Is what, uh.
donnelly		Excuse me?
dude		Nothing.
donnelly		Yes.  I understand you're taking away the remains.
walter		Yeah.
donnelly		We have the urn.
donnelly		And I assume this is credit card?
walter		Yeah.
walter		What's this?
donnelly		That is for the urn.
walter		Don't need it.  We're scattering the ashes.
donnelly		Yes, so we were informed.  However, we must of course transmit the remains to you in a receptacle.
walter		This is a hundred and eighty dollars.
donnelly		Yes sir.  It is our most modestly priced receptacle.
dude		Well can we--
walter		A hundred and eighty dollars?!
donnelly		They range up to three thousand.
walter		Yeah, but we're--
dude		Can we just rent it from you?
donnelly		Sir, this is a mortuary, not a rental house.
walter		We're scattering the fucking ashes!
dude		Walter--
walter		JUST BECAUSE WE'RE BEREAVED DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE SAPS!
donnelly		Sir, please lower your voice--
dude		Hey man, don't you have something else you could put it in?
donnelly		That is our most modestly priced receptacle.
walter		GODDAMNIT!  IS THERE A RALPH'S AROUND HERE?!
walter		I'll say a few words.
walter		Donny was a good bowler, and a good man.  He was. . . He was one of us. He was a man who loved the outdoors, and bowling, and as a surfer explored the beaches of southern California from Redondo to Calabassos.  And he was an avid bowler.  And a good friend.  He died--he died as so many of his generation, before his time. In your wisdom you took him, Lord. As you took so many bright flowering young men, at Khe San and Lan Doc and Hill 364.  These young men gave their lives.  And Donny too.  Donny who. . . who loved bowling.
walter		And so, Theodore--Donald--Karabotsos, in accordance with what we think your dying wishes might well have been, we commit your mortal remains to the bosom of.
walter		the Pacific Ocean, which you loved so well.
walter		Goodnight, sweet prince.
walter		Shit, I'm sorry Dude.
walter		Goddamn wind.
dude		Goddamnit Walter!  You fucking asshole!
walter		Dude!  Dude, I'm sorry!
dude		You make everything a fucking travesty!
walter		Dude, I'm--it was an accident!
dude		What about that shit about Vietnam!
walter		Dude, I'm sorry--
dude		What the fuck does Vietnam have to do with anything!  What the fuck were you talking about?!
walter		Shit Dude, I'm sorry--
dude		You're a fuck, Walter!
walter		Awww, fuck it Dude.  Let's go bowling.
dude		Two oat sodas, Gary.
gary		Right.  Good luck tomorrow.
dude		Thanks, man.
gary		Sorry to hear about Donny.
dude		Yeah.  Well, you know, sometimes you eat the bear, and, uh.
the stranger		Howdy do, Dude.
dude		Oh, hey man, how are ya?  I wondered if I'd see you again.
the stranger		Wouldn't miss the semis.  How things been goin'?
dude		Ahh, you know.  Strikes and gutters, ups and downs.
the stranger		Sure, I gotcha.
dude		Thanks, Gary...Take care, man, I gotta get back.
the stranger		Sure.  Take it easy, Dude--I know that you will.
dude		Yeah man.  Well, you know, the Dude abides.
the stranger		The Dude abides.
the stranger		I don't know about you, but I take comfort in that.  It's good knowin' he's out there, the Dude, takin' her easy for all us sinners.  Shoosh.  I sure hope he makes The finals.  Welp, that about does her, wraps her all up.  Things seem to've worked out pretty good for the Dude'n Walter, and it was a purt good story, dontcha think?   Made me laugh to beat the band.  Parts, anyway.  Course--I didn't like seein' Donny go. But then, happen to know that there's a little Lebowski on the way.  I guess that's the way the whole durned human comedy keeps perpetuatin' it-self, down through the generations, westward the wagons, across the sands a time until-- aw, look at me, I'm ramblin' again.  Wal, uh hope you folks enjoyed yourselves.
the stranger		Catch ya further on down the trail.
the stranger		...Say friend, ya got any more a that good sarsaparilla?...
****Dialogues from script :Big_Sick.txt****

chris		There's no bad crowds dude. Only bad comedians.
kumail		You complain about the crowd like all the time.
chris		Yeah, but that's when they're really bad.
kumail		So like ninety percent of the time, they're really bad? 2
chris		Will you just watch and give me notes tonight? If we both give each other notes, I think it would be helpful.
kumail		Your notes are just to add more "fucks" into the bit.
chris		Fuck's a funny word. Soft on the top and it's hard on the end.
mary		That was truly horrible.
kumail		Hey, that was great.
mary		No, he didn't even crack a smile. I thought I was gonna puke.
chris		Who?
mary		Bob Dalavan.
chris		Who's Bob Dalaban?
cj		Bob Dalavan - works for the Montreal Comedy Festival, you fuckin' doof. Don't you want to get noticed? Move to LA? Hang out with Elijah Wood and shit.
dodd		No one's on stage?
mary		No!
kumail		He might have been doing cocaine. 3
cj		Was he doing cocaine recreationally?
mary		A true cokehead.
chris		Confidence. Poise. Smile.
kumail		He's like if a serial killer fucked an inspirational speaker.
cj		He's like Daniel Day Lewis except he sucks.
chris		Just bought a laser printer. Printed out like six lasers so far.
kumail		Hey Dodd. Dalavan's in the crowd tonight. Could I do ten?
dodd		No. Five minutes. You put out chairs, you get five minutes. You know the deal.
kumail		C'mon man. I'll double it up next time. 4
dodd		No.
kumail		What are you gonna do in there?
dodd		I'm making up next week's schedule.
kumail		Okay. Cool.
cj		I was in bed with my girlfriend and I was trying to mansplain to her that, you know, we are on one little rock orbiting a star in a galaxy of a billion stars in a universe full of a billion galaxies, so I forgot your birthday. Who gives a shit? You are cosmically over reacting to this. Honestly you are being super selfish. You're right, but you're selfish.
kumail		Hey! Have you guys heard of this new drug cocktail called cheese? I saw these news reports so I looked up what cheese is and cheese is a mixture. Cheese is Tylenol PM and heroin. So really, it's heroin. Heroin's doing the heavy lifting. Just do the heroin, it's very powerful. You already have heroin.
chris		He just gave you Montreal? Like you don't have to showcase or audition or anything?
cj		It was too easy. Like I wanted to struggle. I wanted a story to be able to tell on talk shows and instead, like, you guys don't know how hard it is not to struggle. It's a struggle succeeding effortlessly.
mary		Did he say anything about me?
cj		Sure.
chris		What about me?
cj		Both of you. He said, those guys performed...
mary		I truly hate you, actually.
chris		We all hate you.
kumail		Hi. 6
emily		Hi.
kumail		Um, my name is Kumail.
emily		Yeah. We know.
jessie		We saw you perform.
kumail		Yeah. Now that the niceties are out of the way, I have to tell you that when you yelled at me, it threw me off. You really shouldn't heckle comedians. It's so rude.
emily		I didn't heckle you. I just woo-hooed you. It was supportive.
kumail		Okay, that's a common misconception. Yelling anything at a comedian is considered heckling. Heckling doesn't have to be negative.
emily		So if I yelled out "You're amazing in bed," that would be a heckle?
kumail		Yeah. It'd be an accurate heckle.
jessie		Wow. Goodbye!
emily		Don't go! You scared my friend off now.
kumail		What's your name?
emily		Emily.
kumail		I want to show you something, Emily. This is your name in Urdu.
emily		Whoa. Does this move work?
kumail		I've had some minor success with it.
emily		Bullshit.
kumail		So you came to a comedy show with your friends?
emily		Yeah, we're all grad students at U of C.
kumail		What are you studying at grad school?
emily		I study psychology. I'm going to be a therapist.
kumail		Oh so you're gonna sit on a couch and ask people, "how did that make you feel?"
emily		Eventually. Right now I'm doing field work with a group of guys convicted of domestic violence.
kumail		Jesus.
emily		Cheers to that. 8
kumail		Oh wow. No, don't cheers to that. To you becoming a therapist.
emily		Great. To me getting my masters. We'll start there and then we'll go to the rest of it.
kumail		So my roommate Chris is probably on the couch. He's going to try and start a conversation. So no matter what- do not engage. Okay? Let's go.
chris		Hi!
kumail		Do you want to watch a movie?
emily		Sure. Should I just, put my stuff down? Or...
kumail		Yeah, I would say it's safe. You know what, go for that area. I cleaned that earlier this year.
emily		Should I take my shoes off or is this a shoes on bed?
kumail		No, it's a shoes off bed. I have strict rules.
emily		Oh wow. That's totally an inflated mattress.
kumail		Yeah. Did you think it would be a flat inflatable mattress?
emily		I did think it might be an actual mattress.
kumail		Well air mattresses are actual mattresses. You're being bigoted towards air based comfort items.
emily		Sure, I haven't ever seen that movie.
kumail		Okay, so basically the dead start rising. And the good guys, um...
chris		Text Lauren. You up girl?
siri		What do you want to say to Warren? 10
chris		Ah, no. Fuck.
siri		What do you want to say to-
chris		You up? Period. Send.
siri		That may be beyond my abilities at the moment.
chris		Fuck.
emily		What are these scars?
kumail		Oh, they're a smallpox vaccination.
emily		I thought only old people had those.
kumail		Well I'm from Pakistan. We're still fighting some battles you guys have already won.
emily		What were you like in high school? Were you like, super funny? Were you really smart?
kumail		I was very shy. They called me chashmullee.
emily		What is that?
kumail		It roughly translates to "dweeb." I'll show you a picture. 11
emily		Of you in high school? Oh my god!
kumail		Boom.
emily		No.
kumail		And I'm thinking I'm killing it right now.
emily		What inspired this hair cut?
kumail		Hugh Grant.
emily		Oh no. And you're so serious.
kumail		I read in an interview with Hugh Grant, he said he doesn't smile because it makes his face look fat. So I didn't smile in pictures for many years. What were you like in high school? Were you voted... Most Sexy?
emily		No. I was voted "Most Noticeable."
kumail		That's good.
emily		No. It's really not good. I had acne, and I was a Goth and I had this terrible perm. The kids called me Beetlejuice. I don't know why. Actually I do know why, it's because they thought I looked like Beetlejuice. I think I'm done with this subject. In fact, I think I'm gonna go home.
kumail		Wait we haven't even had sex again yet. 12
emily		No. No. I'm really not that kind of girl. I only have sex once on a first date. Plus a hand job.
kumail		Well I haven't had that yet!
emily		You don't get that because you made fun of me.
kumail		What is happening right now? What are you doing?
emily		I'm changing under this blanket.
kumail		I've seen everything. Do you remember, we were just having sex?
emily		Yeah, but you were in the throes of passion then. Listen, I had a really nice time. Thank you very much. I'm just gonna call an Uber and go home.
kumail		Your driver will be ready as soon as he puts on his pants.
emily		Were you available for rides while we were fucking?
kumail		Yeah, but I only looked a couple of times.
kumail		So. Maybe I'll run into you at the club sometime and we can grab a drink?
emily		I'm not really - I know this sounds like a line - but I'm not really dating right now. I have a lot of school and work and just a lot on my plate.
kumail		That's perfect because I'm not really dating right now either. I actually have a pretty strict two-day rule where I can't see someone more than two days in a row. So since we hung out for two days, if I were to see you again, which I won't because you're not dating, I'm not dating, I wouldn't be able to see you until Monday.
emily		We haven't hung out for two days. We've hung out for about five hours. Just to like, be totally clear.
kumail		Yesterday and today. Cause it's after midnight, today is actually tomorrow. Earlier tonight was yesterday. So two days.
emily		You see, I don't date time nerds, so that really takes you off the table.
kumail		That works out, because I am a hard core time nerd.
emily		Yeah, I can tell.
kumail		I'm like, very strict about AM/PM stuff.
emily		So wait, just to establish, what did we just decide?
kumail		We decided we aren't ever going to see each other again. 14
emily		Great. I'm glad we're on the same page.
kumail		I don't want to touch your jeans.
azmat		They're like sweatpants. You should be stylish like your father. It's not very difficult. Just observe me.
naveed		Get some Daddy Style.
sharmeen		Kumi, why don't you grow a beard? Not like Naveed's, just a small one.
azmat		Maybe like mine, small and stylish.
sharmeen		Kumi, I've been thinking, you know, why you don't enroll for LSAT now?
kumail		Yeah sorry, Ma. I haven't done it yet. I like that you bring it up as though you've never brought it up before.
naveed		How's the stand-up coming Bhai?
kumail		It's going fine.
sharmeen		Since when are you someone to stand-up? You know who I think should stand up is Malala. She has something to say. 15
naveed		Ma-la-la.
kumail		She does open mics and she crushes. Lot of ethnic material, which I think is a crutch, and that one story gets a lot of play, but -
fatima		You should be on that show Saturday Night Live!
naveed		SNL!
kumail		That's a great idea. I should e-mail them, I don't know why I hadn't thought of that.
azmat		You know, I hacked into your Cousin Rehan's Facebook account-
kumail		You hacked into it?
azmat		Yeah, they were not accepting my friend request so I had to hack into it and I discovered he and that white woman he is living with are having a baby -
kumail		They're married.
azmat		Yeah, whatever. And then I hacked into Tumblr and I discovered that they named him Dav. Can you imagine?
kumail		Dave. It's probably Dave.
all		Ah, Dave. Yes, Dave.
sharmeen		Very, very, very sad. No one is going to visit that baby. That baby, mark my words, will grow up without a family. 16
fatima		It's like he's dead. Or worse.
sharmeen		It's very sad. Kumi, go pray now so we can eat ice cream. Go! The ja-namaz is downstairs.
naveed		Hurry up yaar. Ice cream.
azmat		My mother used to make best kulfi. Your grandmother.
kumail		I think ice cream is better than kulfi.
azmat		No, no-
sharmeen		Oh. I wonder who that could be?
kumail		I'm guessing it's a young, single Pakistani woman who just happened to be driving by our house, which is in a cul- de-sac and I'm also guessing that the phrase "dropped in" will be said in the next ten seconds.
sharmeen		Everyone. This is Zubeida. She just dropped in.
zubeida		Salaam.
all		Wa alaikum salaam.
sharmeen		Please, sit.
zubeida		Here, Kumail. For your files. Your X- Files. Because that's your favorite show, huh?
kumail		Thank you so much.
zubeida		The truth is out there!
kumail		It's from the show. Thank you.
sharmeen		I hope you come back.
kumail		Okay, Ma, yeah. I just wish you were better at it, you know?  18
sharmeen		Ha. Ha. Ha.
kumail		You brought your A-game with Naveed, but then with me, you're kind of just phoning it in a little bit.
sharmen		Again with the comedy, the comedy. All the time with the comedy. Be serious!
kumail		I am serious! That's why I want to help you get better!
emily		So, are you ever going to let me sit in the front seat?
kumail		No, I'm a professional. And you're paying for this ride.
emily		I don't want to pay for this ride! It's surging right now.
kumail		Yeah, sorry. You shouldn't have typed in the number.
kumail		Okay. The year is 1969. MGM has had a string of failures. So, it turns to its most bankable star, Vincent Price.
emily		Is this your compatibility test? Like, the way people are with Vonnegut or The Big Lebowski?
kumail		No! Just watch the movie. And take it seriously.
emily		I'm going to love it. I love it when men test me on my taste.
kumail		I just want to share this movie with you, so I don't know why you're reading into-
emily		How many women have you shown this movie to?
kumail		Zero.
emily		How many women have you shown a B Horror movie to on like, a third date.
kumail		This is not a B horror movie.
emily		I'm ready, I'm ready!
kumail		Ok, I'll hit play.
emily		I'm watching!
kumail		Shhhhhh! Watch this part.
emily		Stop watching me!
kumail		No! Are you tired? We can watch it later.
emily		I just have that weird yawning thing that happens, when you're watching a really boring film.
kumail		It's not boring! Wait for it to kick in. The plot kicks in really soon.
emily		That was fun. Thanks for the ride home, but we gotta stop doing this.
kumail		Yeah.
emily		I know I've said that before, but I really do mean it. I can't be doing this right now.
kumail		I know. Totally. One hundred percent. I agree with you.
emily		So don't call me again.
kumail		I won't. I promise. 21
emily		Good luck on all your future endeavors.
kumail		Oh yeah, thank you. Hey, can we have an awkward hug before we part forever?
emily		Ok.
kumail		Ok.
emily		Goodbye.
kumail		Goodbye.
emily		You just promised never to call me again.
kumail		It's really cold out here. It's so cold.
emily		You make a pretty good point.
kumail		It is warmer in here.
emily		You know, it's really nice upstairs.
kumail		Is it? 22
cj		Emily, has Kumail told you that in addition to being an Uber driver he also has a one-man show?
emily		No, he did not tell me that.   Do you really?
kumail		It's really nothing. It's just something I'm fiddling around with. 23
emily		How is a one man show different from stand-up?
kumail		It's really not.
mary		There's lots of wigs and costume changes.
cj		There's a lot of acting in it.
mary		And then like at the end of it, you've got this very awkward conversation where you go, "I really liked it."
kumail		But I thought you really liked it!
mary		I really liked it.
emily		I can't wait to see the show.
kumail		You will never see the show...
cj		You have to see the show.
mary		You have to see it.
kumail		It's not ready.
cj		You will love the acting.
kumail		They're fucking with you.   It's not really like that.
emily		Are they fucking with me or you? It seems like they're fucking with you. 24
kumail		I'm twelve years old. This...this is home. Feels like I never left. Do you smell that? That's my mom cooking the Murgh Roghen Joash.
cj		 Fuck.
kumail		Do you hear that? That's my father watching cricket on the telly. Do you feel that? That's the weight of Pakistan's history.
jessie		 I have to leave as soon as the show's over. I can't stay. 25
kumail		So if you get a Silly Mid On fielder, you know you're getting a Yorker soon.
audience		Concrete.
cj		 Kill me.
kumail		Eid Mubarak. That's our Christmas. Except instead of the traditional Christmas ham, we serve Mitthai, which my khansama Chris will serve to you right now. Khansama is Urdu for servant.
cj		 Hey, you look like a children's toy from Malaysia.
kumail		Now all rise for the Pakistani national anthem.
emily		Hey!
kumail		Hey!    So? What did you think?
emily		Um, I thought it was great.
kumail		Yeah?
emily		I never knew that Pakistan had the world's largest irrigation system.
kumail		Yeah. Something like 14 million hectares are being irrigated. As soon as I read that I was like "oh, that's going in the show."
cj		Hey, that was... You were in the zone, man. That was the best one we've seen.
mary		Yeah, that was so honest and good.
cj		And you know what I realized halfway through? You're from Pakistan! Good to see you Emily!
emily		Bye guys!
cj		Keep up the-
kumail		They seem to like it.
emily		They're so nice. 27
kumail		So, really what did you think?   You know, it's a work in progress...
emily		I really liked it. I learned a lot. About Pakistan, and cricket. All those positions. But I just wish that I learned more about you. Does that make any sense?
kumail		Yeah.
kumail		Hey.
emily		Oh, hi!
kumail		It's 3 AM.
emily		Is that diner around the corner open?
kumail		It's 24 hours. Why?   You want an old lemon meringue pie? 28
emily		You're so funny! Actually, no, I just...I really need to get a cup of coffee.
kumail		I can make you coffee.
emily		I love diner coffee.     That burnt taste.
kumail		All right, I'll come with you.
emily		No, no! Why would you do that?
kumail		It's a bad neighborhood. I'm not gonna let you go on your own.
emily		Why cause I'm a woman? Seriously, that's the most misogynist thing I've ever heard.
kumail		Why are you being so weird?
emily		Fuck you, I'm not being weird.
kumail		You're being so weird.
emily		Fuck you. You're being weird!    You're being so weird!
kumail		How am I weird? I want to sleep while it's sleep time.
emily		This is normal. Girls go to get coffee in the middle of the night. Have you never had a girlfriend before? This is what it's like.
kumail		Are you okay? 29
emily		Everything is not okay. Everything is not okay.
kumail		You can tell me anything, you know that right? You can tell me anything.
emily		I have to take a shit, okay? I have to take a huge fucking dookie. I can't take a poo in your bathroom because you don't have any matches and you don't have any air freshener. What kind of person doesn't have any matches or air freshener in the bathroom? The walls are so thin! And Chris is right out there.
kumail		Okay, I have an idea.
kumail		How are you?
emily		I do not want to talk about it.
naveed		Watch and learn, Bhai. It's all about shifting weight and torque.
kumail		Oh.
naveed		Mine.
kumail		Come on.
naveed		Mine, mine.
kumail		These cookies are really good.
naveed		They're biscuits! Listen to yourself. You hardly sound Pakistani. "Cookies"? You sound like Julia Louis-Dreyfus. You're such a burger.
kumail		I'm not a burger.
naveed		Yes, you are. You're a big fat burger.
kumail		I'm not a burger and biscuit is actually a British term. 31
naveed		Well thank you for that information that no one gives a shit about and you should listen to mom and grow a beard.
kumail		It gets really itchy, I've tried. It's all patchy.
naveed		Try being a man and conditioning like I do.
kumail		What's the whole thing with Muslims growing beards anyway? It's such an arbitrary thing. Like who decided that? Oh, we have to have beards.
naveed		Yeah. There are a billion of us and you are the only one with the truth. Is that right? The sun is just shining down on you right now. It's just parting like "ahh".
kumail		You know, I have to tell you something, Bhai.
naveed		Here we go. Yeah?
kumail		I've been dating this girl.
naveed		Acha.
naveed		I thought you were going to say you were involved in a hit and run or you got caught forging some checks. But a WHITE GIRL? Such a cliche.
kumail		It's okay! We hate terrorists! 32
naveed		Listen. I understand. You're in America. You wanna mow a few lawns and see what it's like. But eventually you have to marry a Pakistani girl. Like I hung out with other girls. But then I married Fatima. We hardly spoke two words to each other the first few months! But now, Kumi, she's like my best friend. You have to break up with her immediately.
kumail		If I find someone who's as good for me as Fatima is for you, Mom would understand, right? I mean, she wouldn't love me less?
naveed		She would definitely love you less. Slowly, you'd sort of -- what's the word when guys stop returning girls' calls?
kumail		Ghosting?
naveed		Yes.  You have to end it now or Mom will fucking ghost you.
emily		I'm getting a lot of bright fruit. I'd say it's very fruit forward.
kumail		Uh huh. It tastes like grape juice that's gone bad. How do you know so much about wine? 33
emily		Um, because, I was pretty unhappy in my first marriage and I drank a lot and one way to cover drinking is to know a lot about wine.
kumail		I'm sorry wait, what did you say?
emily		That knowing a lot about wine sort of covers for drinking a lot.
kumail		No, the huge piece of information you're trying to blow right past.
emily		Yeah. I was married.
kumail		You were married?
emily		I was. I was married. Do you want to talk about something else?
kumail		Yeah, cause I don't really have any questions other than...when did you get married? When did you get divorced? What's his name? How tall is he? Did you love him? I guess I have a couple of questions.
emily		Uh huh. His name was, is Ryan. We met in college. Everyone I knew was getting married super young, so we did. And one day I was at a restaurant and I saw this couple making out and I thought "I don't think about my husband like that, but I guess that's okay" and then another part of my brain was like "NO IT'S NOT OKAY THIS IS YOUR LIFE". I feel like this is freaking you out. Does this freak you out?
kumail		It's not freaking me out.
emily		I don't wanna put pressure on you. And I know it's only been a few months.  34
kumail		This is also the last thing I was expecting and I also feel completely overwhelmed by you.
emily		That's a weird thing to say.
kumail		Why? I just said what you said. Exactly what you said.
emily		Yeah, but it wasn't weird when I said it.   It's okay.
emily		So listen, my parents are coming to town this weekend. Maybe you wanna come for lunch?
kumail		Oh, we can't because of the two-day rule, right? You'll come to Mary's party Friday night and then you'll probably spend the night. So I won't be able to see you until Monday, so...
emily		Okay. Well, I would love to meet your parents. They live in the city, right?
kumail		Well, they live in the suburbs. You know, I don't really see them very much. 35
emily		Have they asked about me? What do they think? Do they want to meet me? My parents want to meet you.
kumail		Of course, of course. They're dying to meet you.
emily		Ow... oh my god..
kumail		Are you okay? What happened?
emily		Totally fine.
kumail		Do you need assistance?
emily		I think I just tweaked my ankle. I took this stupid hip hop dance class last weekend.
kumail		You should get it looked at. Do you want ice?
emily		Look, I'm walking on it. I'm totally fine.
kumail		Can I get you a bag of ice? I can carry you? I can carry you the rest of the day?
emily		Kumail, seriously, stop.
kumail		 36
emily		Are you like judging Pakistan's Next Top Model or something? Seriously, who are these women?
kumail		You know how we have arranged marriage in my culture? These are those women.
emily		These are women in Pakistan who want to marry you?
kumail		They're not in Pakistan.
emily		You've met these women?
kumail		Just with my parents. We haven't like -
emily		You're not serious about this, are you?
kumail		It's my mom's thing, I just go along with it.
emily		So what does your mom think about you and me, then? 37
kumail		No.
emily		Fucking five months   of red flags. Oh my god, I'm so stupid.   You ducking my parents. Oh my god,   the two day rule! Seriously, red flag   after red flag. Such a liar!
kumail		You didn't tell me about your being divorced until recently. You were hiding fucking something too!
emily		My divorce does not mean our future is impossible. It actually means the direct opposite. I'm not hiding anything from you. Okay? I'm an open fucking book. You wanna know what's in my cigar box? Stickers. Stickers and stamps.
kumail		Aren't you a therapist? Aren't you supposed to be good at handling these types of things. 38
emily		Where are my fucking shoes?
kumail		Aren't you supposed to be handling this better than you are right now?
emily		I'm expressing myself!
kumail		You know what we call "arranged marriage" in my culture, Emily? Marriage! Okay? We just call it marriage. There's another type of marriage that's called "love marriage" and that's bad. My cousin Rehan married an Irish woman and he was kicked out of the family! And nobody is allowed to talk to him.
emily		Why didn't you tell me any of this?
kumail		Because I didn't think you'd fucking understand and I was fucking right!
emily		You don't think I could fathom your life in any fucking way?
kumail		I'm fighting a fourteen hundred year old culture! You were ugly in high school! There's a big fucking difference!  I'm sorry. I can't lose my family.
emily		Can you imagine a world where we end up together?
kumail		I don't know. 39
emily		I have to go. Don't fucking call me.  Emily leaves.
yazmin		Multi-grain, pumpernickel, pita bread, hot dog buns, croutons..I can't eat any of it.
sam		I don't want kids. People say, Sam, you're gonna love it. You're gonna have a kid and he's gonna be your best friend. A best friend that pukes on you and shits everywhere, and is constantly screaming. I already have friends like that. People say, Sam...
cj		I know you're bummed. Look, Emily's a good person, I'm not saying she's not. All I'm saying is this is the universe telling you: seize your moment. Be a little selfish and pursue your career. Bob Dalavan's gonna be here on Thursday. If you book the Montreal Comedy Festival, it would change things for you. You don't wanna get stuck in Chicago, right? You don't wanna be like Sam Highsmith. He's been doing the
sam		People say, Sam...
cj		Is that what you want? 40
kumail		It's amazing. It's the same material.
sam		What do people say?
audience		Sam!
sam		People say what?
audience		Sam!
sam		I'm Sam Highsmith. Thank you very much!
kumail		I'm gonna tell him. I'm gonna tell him how I actually feel about it.
sam		Crushing it!
kumail		Love the new stuff!
cj		We're weak.
khadija		I wouldn't really call it an obsession but... I'm pretty good at magic.
sharmeen		Can you make his belly disappear?
azmat		No, I'm too happy with my belly.
khadija		Does anyone have a dollar?
azmat		I will give you something.
khadija		20? Big spender. Andrew Jackson? Don't you think he'd look cool with sunglasses?
kumail		Yeah, you can't do it without the magic dust.
khadija		Yeah, I need it. All right...
fatima		That is amazing! And he does look better with glasses!
kumail		How did you do that? 42
khadija		Oh no, a magician never reveals her tricks. Here's your twenty back, Mr. Nanjiani.
azmat		Do you think I could use this twenty dollar bill to buy something?
khadija		It looks better now, right?
kumail		I was watching this monster movie with my friend and he turned to me and was like, "what would you do in that situation?" I'm never going to be one of the last guys alive. I'm going to be the first guy to die. I die so the other characters get to find out something weird is going on. I go off alone to find the cat.
kumail		Denise. This is your name in Urdu. 43
denise		Wow, that is so cool.
bob dalavan		Kumail? Hey, Bob Dalavan.
kumail		Yeah, I know you.
bob dalavan		You had some very interesting premises in your set tonight.
kumail		Thanks.
bob dalavan		I just wanted you to know that you made the finals for the Montreal Showcase.
kumail		Oh my god. Thank you.
bob dalavan		You too, Mary. Congrats.
mary		Oh, ok!
bob dalavan		So we'll see you guys up there. We'll be in touch.
chris		What about C-Dog?
bob dalavan		Who's that?
chris		Um, me. What about me?
dalavan		You know, funny stuff, okay?
denise		 Do you wanna go somewhere? 44
kumail		Yeah, let's go somewhere.
kumail		Hello?
jessie		Kumail. It's Jessie.
kumail		Hey.     Who?
jessie		Jessie. I'm in school with Emily. Listen, Emily is in the hospital.
kumail		What?
kumail		Hi. I am looking for Emily Gardner. Um, Emily Gardner? She was checked in...
kumail		Hey.
emily		What are you doing here?
kumail		Jessie called me and wanted me to make sure you were okay. So how are you doing?
emily		Fine. Totally fine. Never been better. A thousand percent fine. Just like fainted a little at work. I didn't have breakfast this morning.
kumail		Breakfast is the most important meal of the day. You know that.
nurse bette		Ms. Gardner. Your room will be ready soon. Okay?
emily		Oh, no, actually I'd love to go home and sleep in my own bed.
nurse bette		Sir, can you step outside a moment, please? If you want to stay you have to go to the security desk to get a pass. 46
kumail		Where is the security desk?
nurse bette		It's downstairs. Exactly where you walked in. At the security desk.
kumail		The security desk is at the security desk. Got it.
kumail		Can I get you something? Water. Juice. Coffee?
kumail		 I'll be right back.
kumail		What? No. I mean she--
kumail		No-- 47
kumail		What does "intubate" mean?
kumail		Coma.
emily		What's going on?! Where are you taking me?
nurse judy		You should call her family.
kumail		I'm sorry. 48
kumail		Hey, Mrs. Gardner? This is Kumail, Emily's friend. I'm so sorry to be calling you so late. Emily's fine. Just want to get that taken care of. She's fine. She is at City View Hospital in Chicago in a medically induced coma. But the doctors say that- - Yes I did say coma.
kumail		Hey. I'm Kumail.
beth		We know who you are Kumail.
nurse judy		Mr. and Mrs. Gardner. The doctors would like to see you now.
beth		 Be right back.
nurse judy		Listen, the doctor will be here any minute. She's just running a little late. Don't read anything into this being in the bereavement room. It was the only room we had available.
terry		Okay. Thank you.
beth		Terry, Terry-- it's driving me insane.
terry		I know, I know. But it makes me feel better.
beth		"All the doctors"? How many are there?
beth		Five? Why so many? Is that normal?
terry		 Hold on. Is staphylococcus with an "f" or a "ph"?
kumail		That was very reassuring, wasn't it? Apparently, there are good and bad comas. And the kind that they put her in, the medically induced ones, are definitely the good kind of coma.  51
terry		Listen, Kumail... We're gonna handle things from here. You've been very helpful. Thank you. For signing the thing-
kumail		My pleasure
terry		But you can go now.
kumail		Oh... okay... all right. Peace in the Mideast.
chris		What about this? I saw a sniffer dog at the airport get a boner. Does that mean drugs or bombs?
cj		That's good. What if instead of it being at the airport, you quit comedy and never did comedy ever again?
chris		Fuck you. It's a good bit.
cj		Just for the sake of the public. So they wouldn't have to look at your face or hear your words.
kumail		It's okay that I'm not there, right? Like, I don't need to be there, right?
sam		What happened? 52
chris		He put his girlfriend in a coma. You know, the way you do.
mary		He signed a paper that allowed doctors to put her--
cj		He suggested it.
kumail		She's gonna be fine. She's gonna be fine. They said she's gonna be fine. Doctors know medical stuff. That's what doctors do. They're good at medical stuff. This is a medically induced coma. This is their specialty.
mary		Maybe.
chris		It might be a good thing. She might wake up with a new skill. Like my cousin blacked out once and when he came to, he thought he knew a different language.
cj		Did he?
chris		No, it was just gibberish that he made up. It was brain damage.
sam		I got another Taco Bell one...
beth		Did you forget something?
kumail		Is she up yet? 53
terry		No, she's not. They won't tell us anything. We've been here all morning.
kumail		I know you guys said you don't need me to stay, but I think I'm just going to wait anyway.
beth		You guys broke up. I'm not sure why you're here. You don't have to worry about being committed to anything, Kumail. You didn't want to when she was awake. There's no need to do it when she's unconscious.
kumail		It's more complicated than that--
beth		Is it? Because I know about the two-day rule, I know about the headshots and the secrets. She tells us everything.  You really don't have to stay Kumail. You have already done a lot.
kumail		I'm just gonna stay for a second. Is this seat- ?
terry		No reason you should eat there by yourself. Right, hon?
beth		 It's a free country.
kumail		How's your sandwich?
beth		Best fuckin' sandwich I've ever had.
terry		Mine's good. Tuna's always a gamble. You know, we're not by the water. Well, we are by the water, but it's a lake. There's no tuna in the lake. Whatever. I threw the dice. I got the 7's, I guess. Whatever the good dice number is.
kumail		You've never talked to people about 9/11?
terry		No, uh, what's your stance?
kumail		What's my stance on 9/11? Oh, ummmm... Anti. It was a tragedy.  I mean we lost 19 of our best guys.
beth		Huh? 55
kumail		That was a joke, obviously. 9/11 was a terrible tragedy, and it's not funny to joke about it.  Beth and Terry are PAGED on the intercom. They quickly gather up their things and get up to leave.  KUMAIL  Hey, can I come?
beth		Whatever.
beth		Oh. I-
terry		What happened?
beth		Wait a second- Dr. Spellman told us that the antibiotics would work. He didn't say anything at all about surgery. 56
terry		What does that mean? What kind of surgery?
terry		 How do you spell that please? Thora- ? What's the last part?
beth		And where is the infection?
beth		What's the risk?
terry		She left the lights on, eh? 57
beth		My favorite sweater.
terry		Oh hey, that's the book I gave her.
beth		No, I gave her that one. Hey, do you have that little notebook from the doctors?
terry		No, this is the book I gave her.
kumail		I'm just gonna clean up Emily's rooms real quick.
beth		I remember. I met her at the falafel place and then we went to that book store that's hardly ever open and I bought it for her.
terry		You're not the only one who gives her things.
beth		What's up with you?
terry		I'm just tired of you thinking that you're the only one who gives her things. I gave her that book.
beth		Look at the inscription.
terry		No. That's stupid.
kumail		Hey.
terry		Sorry... Didn't mean to surprise you. I was just wondering if we wanna do anything. Got any parlor games...
kumail		I don't-what are parlor games?
terry		Card games, word games. You play any word games?
kumail		No, I've never played-
terry		You ever played You Can't Rhyme It?
kumail		How does that go?
terry		It's basically where you try to find a word, a real word, that nobody can rhyme.
kumail		Ok, Stonehenge. 59
terry		Yeah, see you would win. That'd be a winner.
kumail		I don't play board games. I play video games.
terry		That's the thing. Everybody now needs Nintendo, the game thing, electronics, a thousand dollars. When I was a kid, a piece of chalk and a pavement, that's your entertainment. Hopscotch, tic tac toe, throw the chalk at Jimmy. There you go, three games right there.
kumail		Jimmy was a real guy?
terry		Yeah, well there was no particular Jimmy, whoever got hit with the chalk, he was the Jimmy.
kumail		Yeah, tonight's no good for me. I'd love to, but I'm actually gigging tonight, which is like an industry word we use for when we do shows.
terry		Really?
kumail		Yeah, there's a big Montreal Comedy festival audition coming up, and I'm actually headlining tonight. 60
terry		Oh. That's cool. I haven't been to comedy show since the 80's - Rita Rudner at Caroline's. Remember that, hon?
beth		Christ. Pleural effusion and empyema, --
terry		 Maybe we should go to Kumail's show. What do you think? Wouldn't that be fun?
beth		Oh my god. These pictures are horrible.
terry		Okay listen, why don't we go to the comedy club with him? It'll take our mind off of things right now.
beth		I don't want to get my mind off it, Terry. Our daughter's having surgery tomorrow.
terry		Please. I need the distraction.
beth		Well then why don't you go?
terry		No, I want you to come with me. I don't wanna be alone.
beth		All right. But I'm bringing my iPad.
kumail		Ah it's sold out. I should've said it before you guys had the whole discussion. It sold out super quickly. They were shocked at how quickly it sold out.
terry		But you can get us in? You're the headliner, right? That's what you said. I mean, if you're the headliner, you can get two more in, right? 61
kumail		That's a good point.
terry		We'll sit in the back. They got food there?
kumail		They've got waffle fries and um-
terry		The hospital had waffle fries too.
sumera		I've actually never been to   Pakistan. My parents moved here for grad   school and they just stayed here. I've   never even been to Canada. So uh, when   is Kumail coming?
sharmeen		He's coming. Right, Naveed? Traffic?
naveed		I heard everything's bumper-to-bumper on the Dan Ryan Expressway.
sumera		That's weird because I took the Dan Ryan Expressway here.
chris		What is your dad's sister's favorite kind of music to dance to?
kumail		Emily's parents are here.
mary		Tonight? Why?
chris		Is anybody here from out of town?
terry		Terry.
chris		Terry. And who's this lady next to you? Is it Cloth? A little Terry Cloth?
beth		It's Beth.
chris		Beth. Pretty close. Terry-Beth, where are you guys from?
terry		We're from North Carolina.
chris		Ooh North Carolina. The Tar Heel State! Home of Krispy Kreme donuts! And what brings you to Chicago?
beth		Our daughter's in a coma.
chris		Where are you from? 63
sumera		It's getting late, I should go.
azmat		No, I think I should call him up, I'll just call him up.  I just faked that call. Did you call him?
naveed		 A hundred times. No response.
sumera		I think I should make something clear.  I can understand what you're saying.
fatima		 I thought you said you'd never been to Pakistan.
sumera		 I said I'd never been there but we speak it at home.
azmat		 For someone who's never been to Pakistan you speak Urdu very well.
sumera		 Thanks.
azmat		Do you want to sing?
kumail		I want to name my kid Void so he won't be able to cash any of his paychecks.
heckler		Go back to ISIS!
kumail		Toast is a really strange food.
beth		 What did you just say?
heckler		I said, he should go back to ISIS.
kumail		Toast is the only food that-
beth		Well that's a really confusing position. Do you want ISIS to have more people?
heckler		No I was saying that to him because...
beth		Guess what everybody? We've got an ISIS recruiter here.
kumail		Glad we got to the bottom of that. Toast is like a- 65
beth		What is it about him that made you say that?
kumail		I think we know what the answer is.
heckler		Lady I wasn't talking to you.
beth		What is it about him?
kumail		We don't have to go down this path. We know what's at the end of it.
heckler		Cuz of how he looks.
kumail		There it is.
beth		That is like saying that all frat boys wearing country club hats and Hawaiian shirts have shriveled up, tiny little dicks!
kumail		Actually, Beth, this is a bad way for you to find out, but he's right. I actually am a terrorist. I just do stand-up comedy on the side to keep a low profile.
heckler		Fuck you.
kumail		First of all, very clever. Did you write that at home? Toast is-
beth		Fuck you!
heckler		Fuck you.
beth		No fuck you! 66
heckler		You're a bitch, you know that?
beth		 I'm gonna fucking kill you! What's your fucking phone number?!
terry		I'm sorry everybody. I'm sorry.
beth		I think I'll make tea.  Does Emily have whiskey?
kumail		On top of the fridge.
terry		So uh, Cubs doing good, huh? 67
kumail		I don't know anything about baseball.
beth		I am so sorry about that. That was... I just sort of lost control.
terry		I thought it was sexy.
kumail		Me too. Not like sexy, but like cool sexy. Not like aroused sexy. I'm gonna not say sexy anymore.
beth		Hey, you guys wanna get something to eat?
beth		So is it always like that?
kumail		Oh like tonight? No, usually a different mom comes in to help me. I'm joking. No, it's not always like that. I'd quit if it was.
terry		Here's a joke.
beth		No, Terry, don't. Terry's about as funny as a fart at a funeral.
terry		This is funny, this is a funny one. A giraffe walks into a bar and he says to the bartender, "Highballs on me." You get it, right?
kumail		Oh that was the end of the joke?
terry		Yes. 68
kumail		That was the whole joke?
terry		That's the joke. That's the beauty of it, boom.
kumail		I thought there was more.
terry		He's a giraffe, he's tall, so it would stand to reason his testicles are high and a highball is a type of drink, and you ruined it by saying I wasn't funny first.
kumail		No, it's good. I like my jokes thoroughly explained.
terry		You're just busting my high balls.
terry		Complex finish. Flamboyant mouth-feel. Good. How about you?
kumail		Hmm, fruit-forward.
terry		Good term. Absolutely fruit-forward.
kumail		This one is in the front seat. It's driving the wine car.
terry		Exactly.
beth		I like wine cause of the buzz. 69
terry		She's a bit of a lightweight.
beth		So is Terry! He'll be passed out on the sofa in less than an hour!
terry		Ah that's nonsense. You know that's not true.
beth		You weren't supposed to be on the show tonight, were you?
kumail		Oh? Me on the show tonight? Yeah, yeah I was. I was the headliner.
beth		Well that didn't work.
kumail		Also, I think I screwed up with your daughter.
beth		Yeah, you did.  I don't know how people do it when their family's sick. My Uncle Lew, he got cancer, then he had a stroke, then a heart attack, then he had a recurrence of the cancer. But you know what killed him?
kumail		Cancer? 70
beth		Car accident. We think maybe it was a heart attack while he was driving. And he did still have cancer too. And you know what? He ate sprouts his whole fucking life. Hadn't had a yolk in 30 years. I don't know how I'm going to sleep tonight.
kumail		You wanna stress eat?
beth		Fuck yeah.
kumail		Oh my god.
beth		Most noticeable. Oh no, hold on, there's more.
kumail		Oh my god.
beth		I laughed so hard when I saw these. She got so mad at me.
kumail		You're gonna wake him up.
beth		Are you kidding me? He can sleep through anything. Hey Terry!
kumail		How did you and Terry meet?
beth		I was going to East Carolina University and I was waiting tables. We met at this coffee shop, I was waiting on him. I liked his hair. He was a teacher already. Thick New York accent like nobody I'd ever met. Totally wrong for me. So naturally we fell-in-love. My family could not stand him. We're all military people, army pilots. All my brothers played football. Terry couldn't even change a tire. My father got so mad he broke every dinner plate we had. Now back then, you go to the gas station, you fill up your tank, you get a dinner plate. But just one at a time. Cup, saucer. It took us a year of fill-ups to get the whole set back. And Terry just stuck around. Eventually they just all got over it.
kumail		They just got over it. How?
beth		Lots of fucked up dinners. How'd your parents meet, Kumail?
kumail		So we have arranged marriage as you know. A big group got together to see a movie, but really it was just a set up so my mom and dad could meet.
beth		What movie did they see?
kumail		I have no idea. I never asked.
beth		She's great, you know?
kumail		I know.
beth		I feel good about this surgery. 72
kumail		Yeah. These doctors know what they're doing.
beth		No they don't. They're just winging it like everybody else.
kumail		Fuck.
emily's voice		Hey it's me. So I tried making some Pakistani food to surprise you. And either I'm a bad cook or all Pakistani food is terrible. I don't know yet. Bye!
emily's voice		Hey it's me. If you just wanna come over and like kiss me for two seconds, I'd really love that tonight. Ok. Bye!
terry		Oh boy.
beth		How soon?
beth		So this is good news?
terry		She's a fighter, right?
sharmeen		I was so worried. We saw on the news that a train derailed and we thought that you were on the train and you had died.
kumail		Nobody died on that train, Ma.
sharmeen		But did they look under the train? 74
azmat		So, where were you last night? What were you doing?
kumail		Nothing. I wasn't doing anything.
sharmeen		Kumail.
kumail		Alright, I'll tell you. I was... studying for the LSAT.
sharmeen		Really?
kumail		Yup. I signed up. And if I pass, I'm gonna go to law school, become a lawyer, and do law.
sharmeen		Oh, let me see who that could be.
kumail		Really, Dad? You said that nobody was gonna come. That it was gonna be just us.
naveed		Hey Kumi, do you know this guy? People say Sam. People say Sam. Do you know him?
kumail		Yeah, I know.
fatima		He should be on Saturday Night Live.
naveed		SNL.
sharmeen		Everybody remember Khadija? She just dropped in. She was just in the neighborhood. 75
khadija		I've just been through so many of these appointments and I never have anything in common with the guys. You know when girls at work complain about dating, I just want to body slam them. They have no idea. I don't know. My mom says I'm becoming the bruised apple at the bottom of the apple bucket.
kumail		No, no. You're not.
khadija		I am.
kumail		You're not.
khadija		So do you want to hangout sometime? Like without our parents? Have you been to the cat cafe? The cats just come up to you and nestle in your lap and you just pet them.
kumail		I don't think that's a good idea.
khadija		You don't like cats? 76
kumail		I mean I don't think it's a good idea for us to hangout again. It's not you. You're fantastic. I just can't do this arranged marriage thing -- with anybody.
khadija		So why did you meet me?
kumail		It wasn't my idea.
khadija		I'm just really tired. Do you ever want to just be in a relationship so you can finally relax?
kumail		I'm sorry. You deserve better than me.
khadija		People are always telling me what I deserve. It's bullshit. And stop being so sorry about everything. I'm gonna go.
terry		Wow, they should call this website, "Everything is Cancer Dot Com". Everything you put in, it could be cancer. Hiccups could be cancer. Come on. You take the fun out of hiccups now.
beth		Do you know this is the 17th best hospital in Chicago? 77
terry		Really? Out of how many?
beth		I don't know, but Northwestern's number one.
terry		Well how do they rate it? What's their methodology?
beth		I don't know, Terry. But 17th is bad.
terry		It's not great, unless the sample size is, you know, that all depends.
kumail		Here, look at the comments.
terry		This is why I don't want to go online cause it's never good. You go online, they hated Forrest Gump. Frickin' best movie ever.
terry		Yeah.
terry		They couldn't find out what the disease was, or where the virus came from or the bacteria or whatever.
kumail		But they took out the infection so it shouldn't matter?
terry		I know, that's what I said but her vitals didn't normalize. And now they say that the infection is continuing to spread, it's in her kidneys.
kumail		But the kidneys are so far from the lungs.
terry		I know, it's an aggressive infection and they said what they gotta do now is figure out what this mystery disease actually is.
beth		I'm calling Northwestern.
terry		Just hold on, hold on.
beth		Terry! Goddammit!
kumail		I think we should talk about this--
beth		--You shut up! I'm sick of this shit, Terry. We're getting her out of here!
terry		They're in the middle of the whole process of elimination.
beth		So you're saying Northwestern can't take that information and continue the search? This place is a shithole.
terry		Will you just stop for a second? They're the doctors. You act like you know what you're talking about. You don't.
beth		I can't find my cellphone. You got a phone?
terry		Don't give her a phone. You don't need a phone. You don't need to call anybody right now.
beth		Well that's very nice. But I don't. Can you unlock that thing?
terry		Oh - you think that you're smarter than me because you say big sentences. Well you're not!
beth		I don't think I'm smarter than you! You just don't think you're as smart as I am! That's not my fault!
terry		Right. It's never your fault. Everything's my fault. 80
beth		Oh there are some things that are definitely just your fault.
terry		Okay, that's bullshit. You need to stop freaking out and calm down.
beth		And you need to stop being a coward.
terry		Greatest hits, coming back. You can stop, I'll replay the rest of this from memory.
nurse judy		Oh, you're giraffe-ing it.
kumail		It was the biggest thing they had. I don't even know if she likes giraffes. We never talked about giraffes. Hey, do they know what they're doing? Cause they don't tell us anything. Like, Lyme Disease? You know the girl on The Real World had it? Did you guys look for that?
nurse judy		Yes, we did. 81
kumail		Did you know she gets hurt all the time? She messed up her ankle recently - could that be Lupus?
nurse judy		Kumail. We're looking into everything. We're not holding anything back from you. We're still just eliminating possibilities.
kumail		Cause Beth wants to move her to Northwestern.
nurse judy		Oh no. Emily should not be moved. The hospital will approve it because it'll get the liability off their hands, but we put her in a coma for a reason. To stabilize her. Moving her could be very dangerous. The infection could spread. Trust me she is fighting. And so are we.
kumail		Hey Terry. I was just talking to the nurse - You okay?
terry		Yeah, of course. Totally fine.
kumail		Do you wanna crash at my place? 82
terry		You got the golf channel?
kumail		No.
terry		That wasn't funny, right?
kumail		I thought that was a serious question.
terry		Let's get the fuck out of here.
kumail		So this is the place.
terry		Wow...this place is terrible.
kumail		Hey I talked to Nurse Judy, and she was saying that moving Emily could be a bad idea.
terry		Really?
kumail		Yeah, she said it could be dangerous.
terry		No. Yeah. I hear you. I'd give anything to trade places with Emily. Being a parent, it's a nightmare. Loving somebody this much sucks. 83
kumail		Yeah.
terry		And I guess you've noticed some tension between Beth and me.
kumail		Not really. That's none of my business.
terry		Yeah well, it's there. Big time.
kumail		It's getting really late. We should go to sleep.
terry		I cheated on her.
kumail		Fuuuuck.
terry		I did. It was just a one night stand.
kumail		Okay.
terry		We met at some bar in Cincinnati. They have these teacher conferences. Who goes to a math conference to get laid?
kumail		Math teachers?
terry		Yeah. I think I was depressed, that's what it was.
kumail		Yeah. Let's talk about it tomorrow. Get a full night's sleep. Catch up fresh in the-
terry		She just smelled so good. It was horrible too. As soon as I was finished. As soon as I'd finished, I was like, what did you fucking do?! What did you just do?!  84
kumail		Yup.
terry		I told Beth right away. I had to. She was devastated. Now she hates me.
kumail		She might be mad at you, but she doesn't hate you. You should've heard the way she was talking about you. Hey, can I ask you something? Why did you tell her?
terry		Oh, I had to. I'm no good with guilt.
kumail		Do you guys talk about it?
terry		Not anymore. She said she forgave me, but no. She hasn't. Let me give you some advice Kumail. You're going to know the woman you want to spend the rest of your life with when you cheat on her. When you cheat on her and you just feel like shit.
kumail		So, to fully know I love someone, I have to cheat on them?
terry		Out loud it sounds stupid. Yeah, that's terrible advice.
kumail		I don't really get that either.
terry		I know. I thought I could just start saying something and something smart would come out. 85
kumail		Hey did you see Terry?
chris		No, I heard him leave this morning. I'm going to Sevies. You want anything?
kumail		No, I'm good, thank you.
chris		You don't want a hot dog or nothing?
kumail		Dude it's 8:30 in the morning.
chris		Okay, no hot dog.
sharmeen		We just spoke to Khadija's parents.
kumail		What are you doing here?
sharmeen		What is wrong with you, Kumi?
kumail		Nothing is wrong with me. I'm sorry-
sharmeen		Sorry? That's all you have to say?
kumail		I wasn't that into her. 86
sharmeen		"Into her"? Do you know how difficult it is to get an appointment with her? She is in very high demand.
kumail		Okay. So?
sharmeen		So?
kumail		Can we please talk about this another time?
sharmeen		No, no, Kumi. We will talk about this now. We have sacrificed everything for you.
kumail		I know, okay?
sharmeen		We have left our family. We have left our home. I have missed the birth of my sister's daughter. I have not seen my mother for fifteen years. Your father, he had to do his graduate school. Again. He had to give exams. Again.
azmat		I was in my mid 50's. They were in 20s. They used to call me Father Time!
kumail		I know that. I really appreciate everything you did for me, but can we talk about this another time?
sharmeen		Kumi, if you don't want to be a lawyer, fine. If you want to do the stand-up comedy and embarrass us as a family, fine. There is only one thing that we have ever asked from you: that you be a good Muslim and that you marry a Pakistani girl. That is it, one thing!
kumail		Can I ask you something that has never made sense to me? Why did you bring me here if you wanted me to not have an American life?  87
azmat		Don't you talk to your mother like that!
kumail		You don't care what I think. You just want me to follow the rules. But the rules don't make sense to me. I don't pray. I don't. I haven't prayed in years. I just go down there and I play video games.
azmat		You don't believe in Allah?
kumail		I don't know what I believe, Dad! I don't know. And I can't marry someone you find for me.
sharmeen		And why not?
kumail		Because I'm in love with someone. I am. Her name is Emily and she's gonna be a therapist. And right now she's very sick but I couldn't tell you that. It makes me so sad that I couldn't tell you any of that. I really appreciate everything you've done for me. I truly, truly do. And I know Islam has been really good for you, it has made you good people, but I don't know what I believe. I just need to figure it out on my own.
sharmeen		You're not my son.
azmat		Kumi, you're being selfish. You're not thinking about us. You're not thinking about Khadija. In fact you're not even thinking about that girl that you are in love with. You think American Dream is just about doing whatever you want and not thinking about other people?  88
chris		Hey... I never went to the store. I was just listening at the door. My mom kicked me out for dealing weed at sixteen, so I get it man.
kumail		Hey, so when are we going to talk to Beth about what we talked about?
terry		We're gonna move her.
kumail		What? What are you talking about? You fucking caved?
terry		I didn't cave. I don't cave.
kumail		Okay, okay. I know you don't cave. You're great. But we talked about this last night.
terry		I know. We're moving her. She's right.
kumail		What? No. I told you what the nurse said. Hey Beth, the nurse told me that moving Emily could be a very bad idea.
beth		Well Northwestern told us it could be very good.
kumail		Well, they don't see her. This nurse sees her and she told me herself. 89
terry		It's okay. They don't need to see her.
kumail		It's not okay. There. I got it!
terry		That's a map of the garage.
kumail		Wait, wait! Do you want to be responsible? She could die!
beth		Kumail, we're responsible for her no matter what. We're her parents. Now I'm sorry, we're moving her.
stu		Welcome to Quick'n Hot. May I take your order please?
kumail		Yeah, um can I get a burger with 4 slices of cheese.
stu		Four burgers. Anything else sir?
kumail		No. One burger with four slices of cheese.
stu		I'm sorry. We can't do that.
kumail		Just put 4 slices of cheese on a burger.
stu		We can't do that. There's no button -
kumail		Who the fuck is this "we", man? Who the fuck is this "we"? It's me and you. We're just people. Fucking listen to me. Fuck this corporate entity. Put four slices of cheese on THE FUCKING BURGER.
stu		We can't do that.
kumail		What the fuck, you fucking idiot?
stu		Today's my first day.
kumail		Fuck you!
stu		I'll just ring you up for four burgers.
kumail		I'm sorry. 91
stu		 Do you want any fries or drink with that?
kumail		I'll take four fries. I'm sorry.
kumail		Fuck!
chris		Hey man, Montreal finals. You ready? Oh wait, are you getting all dark and moody before your set? Yeah, punish yourself like a nasty little baby.
kumail		I am not in the mood. Okay Chris?
chris		I'll get you in the mood.
cj		You all right?
kumail		Why does everybody say the same fucking thing? Yeah, I'm doing great. 92
cj		Okay, all right dude. I'm just checking.
dodd		The fuck've you been, man? You're on next!
dodd		This next performer, my man, Mr. Kumail Nanjiani!
kumail		Have you guys heard of this new drug cocktail called cheese? Like that's the name of it, it's called cheese. I saw all these news reports, and they were like, there's a new drug, it's called cheese. Everyone's doing it in the Midwest, kids are doing it.
kumail		I don't know if you can hear me or not, but it would be really good if you pulled through. If you have to go, you can go, but it would be really great if you stayed. And I'm really sorry about what I did -
emily		Mom. You're getting your tears all over me. When am I gonna be able to feel my face?
terry		You gave us quite a scare there, Scout.
emily		Scout?
terry		Come on. I call you that all the time.
emily		No. Not since I was a grown up.
terry		I've called you that your whole life!
nurse judy		Sorry hon.
emily		What is that crap?
nurse judy		We have to thicken your liquids for a bit. Your esophagus isn't strong enough to swallow yet.
emily		That shit tastes like semen.
terry		That's nice for a father to hear. 95
emily		It does! Seriously, Mom. You should try this.
beth		Oh wait a minute, honey!
terry		Oh, come on, come on. They'll charge us forty eight dollars for it, don't worry about it.
emily		Why are you here?
kumail		 I haven't heard her voice in a while.
beth		He's been here the whole time.
beth		 Honey, we'll be right outside.
kumail		Hey. 96
terry		Yeah, yeah.
dr cunningham		We gave her anti-inflammatories and she stabilized within hours. She's gonna take time to recover but she'll be fine.
terry		Wow.
emily		What are you doing here?
kumail		I was visiting someone down the hall and I was like, I'll just pop in and say hi to Emily.
emily		Oh.
kumail		No, I'm joking, I was here for you.
emily		You're an asshole and I don't like you.
kumail		I'm not an asshole. I'm really not. 97
emily		No, you're an asshole.
kumail		You have a lot of drugs in you so you're not thinking as clearly.
emily		Naw dog. I'm not joking. You're not funny to me. You just make me sad. You make me sad inside of my heart, and it makes me sad to look at you. So I think you should probably go. Just go and tell my mom I want her.
kumail		Emily wants to see you.
terry		Alright, Kumail. Here's the thing. Your living condition is a potential health risk and you're not that funny. But.... you're probably not suited to do anything else either so that's troublesome--
kumail		You really made it sound like you were going to say something positive there.
terry		I guess I did, didn't I? You know I know the good stuff. You know how I feel. I gotta get in there. 98
kumail		So you gonna hang around Chicago for a while?
beth		Yeah. She's got physical therapy.
kumail		Did you ever think you'd be excited to have your daughter go through physical therapy?  It's so strange that we could go through one of the most intense experiences of our lives together and just never see each other again.
beth		Maybe. But I hope not.
mary		Hi little sad man. Mopey boy. We have something to tell you. We are moving to New York. And we want you to come with us. 99
kumail		Are you serious?
cj		You gotta do it. It's going to suck at first but we'll have each other and maybe eventually get paid to write jokes. It's gonna be the best. Come on dude.
mary		You have to come. I know you did not get Montreal and that is only because you did one of the worst sets I've ever seen in my goddamn life.
cj		It was nonsense.
mary		A living disgrace.
cj		I would call it shit, but I would be worried that I'd be insulting actual shit.
mary		Yeah, it was so bone-chilling to me, I thought a ghost had passed right through me.
kumail		We don't have to keep going over how bad the set was. I saw their faces and the noises they didn't make.
mary		I felt one of my eggs die.
kumail		Doesn't that happen every month?
mary		It happens every month, Kumail, but I don't always feel it and go, ohhhhh. And that's what you made me do. I'm packing my things up and I'm moving to New York, and guess what, baby? You're coming with me.
kumail		What about Chris? 100
mary		He will be fine.
cj		There's not enough room in the car, probably. We leave in a week, all right? And I already called shotgun Chicago to Pittsburgh. Do not fuck this up.
mary		Your destiny awaits!
cj		This will be the biggest move of your life. Other than the one from Pakistan.
terry		Hey, clink clink! Thank you everybody for coming. I just wanted to say a couple of words here.
emily		 Why is Kumail here?
beth		Cause he was there the whole time. I invited the nurses, I invited him.
terry		Emily, come on up here. I wanna say something.
kumail		Hey. I like your cane. I've heard pimpin' ain't easy.
emily		Right.
kumail		Hey, can we talk for a second?
emily		Sure.
kumail		So, I've been collecting some things that are important to me and I wanted to show them to you. I call this my bag of devotion.
emily		What did you do? Did you cremate someone? 102
kumail		These are the ashes of all the Pakistani women - not the women - the pictures of the Pakistani women. I thought this was a good idea, but it feels a little stupid.
emily		Kumail, I'm really glad that you went through this experience, but you have to understand that all that happened while I was asleep. Like you felt one way a few weeks ago and now you're saying you feel the total opposite way and the only thing that's changed is that I was in a coma. Honestly, I look at all of this, and I just think, I can't do it again. I can't be the reason that you don't have a family. It just feels totally different now. And I can't do that again. Do you understand?
kumail		Okay.
kumail		Ma. Dad. Fatima. Bhai. There's no plate. Oh I forgot. I've decided I won't let you kick me out of the family. Since I am a member of the family, it would stand to reason that I would get a vote in whether or not I get kicked out, and that vote would have to be unanimous. Standard parliamentary procedure. So all those in favor of not kicking Kumail out of the family, raise your hand.
naveed		Bullshit.
kumail		I admit this one is designed to stir up some controversy. "It's interesting how you can't really kick someone out of your family because they'll always be your family." I agree with that one. It's a good one. So, I'm gonna leave these here for you.
emily		What is it?
emily		Okay. 105
beth		We gotta go.
emily		Home?
beth		Yeah, it's time.
emily		I'm not ready.
beth		Yeah, you know what? You're strong and you are.
kumail		And we'd go to the mosque and hear graphic details of religious people being killed 1400 years ago. I mean like Tarantino-esque details. And everyone would be crying, like competing to see who could cry the hardest. And I could never cry. And I was like, what is wrong with me? Am I broken?  106
terry		You know people talk about New York water but Chicago water is very underrated, I think. It's good.
emily		Hey guys, I think I might just pop out for a bit.
terry		By yourself?
emily		Yeah, just hop around the block, maybe get some frozen yogurt.
terry		Are you okay? Can you do it, can you walk by yourself?
emily		Yeah, Dad.
beth		Have fun.
terry		If you feel a coma coming on, call us.
emily		Dad, it's too soon. I love you, I'll see you in the morning.
terry		Love you, bye.
beth		Have fun. 107
emily		I will.
terry		Got your phone?
emily		Yeah.
kumail		But you liked it, huh?
naveed		Yeah. I mean, yeah.
kumail		Hey!
emily		Hi...
kumail		What are you doing here?
emily		I was in the neighborhood and I saw that you were gonna be here so I thought I'd come say hi.
kumail		You look great. How's your blood oxygen level?
emily		Oh, well within range.
kumail		Nice.
emily		Hi, I'm Emily.
naveed		I've heard lots about you.
emily		It's so good to finally meet you.  There's actually something I wanted to tell you.
naveed		Okay, well I'm going to just... goodbye.
beth		Are you warm enough?
terry		Yeah, yeah. I've got my two pairs of socks on.
beth		Do you mind?
terry		No... no...
beth		I'm glad we're going home tomorrow.
terry		Me too. See? I should have brushed my teeth.
beth		I like it. 109
emily		When something like this happens, there's this sort of expectation that you're going to have this completely new lease on life and feel totally different about everything. Like cherish every sunrise. And for the most part I just feel like, ugh I can't get up that early. I'm sorry, I feel like I've been talking about myself so much. Are you doing a lot of stand-up?
kumail		Yeah, I bombed my Montreal Comedy Festival audition, like horrifically.
emily		I saw the video. It wasn't great. I'll be honest with you, it wasn't great.
kumail		I know.
emily		But there was a lot I liked. Like a lot I liked.
kumail		I'm moving to New York.
emily		Really?
kumail		Yeah. Mary and CJ and I are just gonna drive out. We have a place already.
emily		When do you leave?
kumail		Next weekend.
emily		I'm so excited for you. That is great. I think you are going to do so great in New York. 110
kumail		What were you going to say?
emily		What?
kumail		You said you were going to say something to me. What was it?
emily		Oh, just that I wanted to thank you. My parents told me everything you did for me and I feel like the last time we spoke I didn't properly thank you so-
kumail		Oh yeah. Totally fine.
emily		I should probably go.
kumail		Do you wanna call an Uber?
emily		No, I'm gonna walk actually. This has been really great. Okay, bye.
chris		The scene is gonna be so different with you guys gone.
kumail		You should... come out...
chris		Nah. I'm good here. I'm gonna miss you.
kumail		I'm gonna miss you.
chris		Get out of here, you assholes.
mary		Come here, you big dummy.
azmat		You are still kicked out of the family, but because we did not get a proper chance to say bye to you... Your mother is so angry with you. She is not going to get out of the car. She's not even going to look at you. And I don't believe you kept so much secret from me, your father.
kumail		I'm sorry.
azmat		Here. She asked me to give this to you.
kumail		Thank you Ma.
azmat		Right now? No.
kumail		I'll miss you.
azmat		I am forbidden from hugging you. So. It was nice to have you as my son. Goodbye forever. And do me a favor, when you reach New York, just text us and tell us that you've reached safely, okay? 112
kumail		Dad, can I ask you something? When you and Mom went on your first date, what movie did you see?
azmat		 Satte pe Satta.
kumail		Just curious.
kumail		So the first time I came to America, I was fourteen and I was just visiting my uncle in New York and it just happened to be Thanksgiving. On my first day in America, my uncle took me to the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade and I was like, this is every day in America! As advertised. Every day they have a party celebrating Garfield. No day has lived up to that day. So I was lying to my parents, I was telling them I was gonna be a lawyer. And they're very disappointed cause they wanted me to be a doctor. And you guys are like, why didn't you just tell them that you wanted to be a doctor?  113
emily		Oh that wasn't a heckle. I just kind of woo-hooed you.
kumail		Well see that's a common misconception. Heckling doesn't have to be negative.
emily		So if I was like, oh my god, you're amazing in bed! That would be a heckle?
kumail		Yeah, and now you're getting more laughs than me, and I don't like that. Do you want to come up, do my job? Are you from out of town, m'am?
emily		Chicago.
kumail		Ooh Windy City. And what brings you to New York?
emily		I'm here to see someone.
kumail		And have you seen him? Or her, I mean I don't know what your deal is.
emily		Yeah, I've seen him.
****Dialogues from script :Big_White.txt****

written by		 Collin Friesen
corporal		So his hand is like, off, right.  So he puts on a tourniquet, puts the hand in his pocket, walks five miles through the bush til he gets to the highway, where he passes out, on the road, right.  Then this logging truck comes along...
detective boyle		 Hey.
corporal		 Dispatch, this is unit 611, we need a first responsder --
detective boyle		Cancel that.
hair stylist		 She says "I haven't eaten all day," then, right there on the bus she pulls out this, like, salmon steak and I'm...
man's voice		We'll get him later.  C'mon.
teenager		"...Get up, everybody's gonna move their feet, get down, everybody's gonna leave their seat...gonna lose your mind in..."
ted		Need a hand?
howard		 Yeah.  Could ya grab me those two by eights?
ted		No.  Name's Ted.
howard		Hey Ted, I'm Howard.
ted		Hey Howard.  What is that, an Arctic Cat? What do those go for?
howard		More than I could normally afford, I'll tell ya.  Hey!  What do you think you're you doing?
cam		That was really cool.  It was like... watching "Cops".
ted		He was pretty spry for a man with a herniated disc.
cam		You know, I don't want to bitch or anything, but you were supposed to take me along on that one.
ted		Couldn't find you.
cam		I know you know this, but the sooner they think I can handle calls on my own, the sooner they'll kick you back down south.
ted		I've been hearing that for 13 months and six days, Cam.  After a while, it gets a little old.  Next time, okay.
paul		That's... quite the fish.
branch		Paul Barnell, Ted Watters.
ted		Raymond, isn't it?
paul		Yes, Raymond.  You see, as I've already explained to Mr. Branch, he's been gone for five years now, and I thought it might be time to... move on.
ted		By move on you mean...?
branch		...cash in Raymond's policy.
paul		I just thought, well, it's pretty unlikely he's still alive. My Dad always wanted us to be able to look after each other if anything should ever happen.  And to be frank, money's a little --
ted		I understand Mr. Barnell, but here's the thing. With no actual body, under Alaskan statutes a person must be missing for seven years before he or she can be legally declared dead and that's not withstanding an investigation period where concerned parties can take up to another year to file interventions concerning the motion.  So, even though your brother's status is undetermined at this point, there's really very little we can do for you.
branch		Of course we are extremely sorry for your loss.
ted		Oh, absolutely.
paul		Hang on, hang on.  First off, how did you get my cell number?    Because it's for mechanical and medical emergencies only.
paul		Yes, and that check went out a week ago.  I watched my secretary write it up.
paul		Well I don't know.  I, I, I have no clue.  Could it possibly be a problem on your end?  So the electric company never makes a...  Look, I pay my bills.  I'm a Rotarian for goodness --
paul		 Hello?
paul		 Jodie, no!  Not for dogs!
tiffany		 Well, we are all registered psychics here.  I just had a feeling you'd be calling.  What's up?
ted		Hey Tiff.
tiffany		 Your TV remote control?  Okay.
ted		"If you like frozen enchiladas, getting caught in the rain.  If you're not into...something brownish."
tiffany		It's stew.  I'm not sure it's still good.
ted		Aren't you with a customer?
tiffany		They're concentrating.
ted		 So?  How's the tea leaf business today?
tiffany		I've decided from now on to ignore you when you're ignorant about my work.  And it's going very well thank you.  Mr. Williams, I'm seeing sofa cushions.  Do you have a sofa?  Good.  Glad I could help.
ted		You here from that software distributor guy?
tiffany		No, but I did crack that code problem.  You know how sometimes when you're running Beta versions you --
ted		English, please.
tiffany		There was a boo-boo, but I fixed it.  Psychic Pals, how are you today, Carol?  Now I thought we'd agreed God is everywhere, but not specifically in your coffee pot.
ted		Jeez, Tiff.
tiffany		Jeez, Ted.  Do I tell you how to do your job?
ted		 No, but then again I'm not a computer aided pseudo psychic, so if you're looking for moral equivalence...
tiffany		Before you say anything else that may keep us from having sex ever again, let me ask you something...
ted		Tiff, please.  I always get these wrong.
tiffany		That's why we keep trying.  Now, Love is Sacrifice test.  If you were in a life raft with me and there was only enough water --
ted		Don't you have a customer?
tiffany		 Carol?  God says he's busy with a famine right now, but you should keep praying.  Cool.
ted		No.  I'm not doing it.
tiffany		It's just a stupid quiz.
ted		Exactly.
tiffany		Psychic Pals.  Is this the first time you've called us Mrs...?
ted		Our only relationship problem is you're running a
tiffany		Don't call it a scam.  Excuse me?
ted		What?
tiffany		You've got to learn to channel that rage, Margaret.  You didn't just call this your living room, did you?
ted		I meant ours.  Ours, ours, ours.
tiffany		I feel someone you really care about, maybe even the love of your life, is being a real pain.  Now I need you to concentrate...
avis		Morning Mr. Barnell.  Coffee?
paul		Thanks Avis.  Looks good.
paul		Yeah, it was not working.  Any calls?
paul		Something... strange happened last night Avis.
paul		Did... you ever meet my brother Raymond?
paul		Uh huh.  Well anyway last night there's a knock on the door and there's Raymond, just... standing there on the doorstep.
avis		Didn't you have him declared...?
paul		Dead?  No.  I mean, they said he hadn't been gone long enough.
avis		 Good thing in hindsight.
avis		Where 'bouts?
paul		 Sorry, what was that?
avis		Where was he living?
paul		Florida.
avis		I've got an aunt down there.  Where 'bouts?
paul		 A uh... small place.  By the beach.
avis		Well that's great.  You and Mrs. Barnell will have some company for a bit I guess.  How is she?
paul		Better, a little better.  Some days are better than others.
paperboy		Collecting, Mrs. Barnell.
margaret		Daniel, you pussy little cocksucker.  I'll get my purse.
paperboy		It's 12 dollars.  I missed you last time.
paperboy		Sure will.  Thanks.
gary		I thought stuff didn't smell when it was frozen?  I don't know why we have to--
jimbo		Dave wants visual confirmation, he gets visual confirmation.  We have a chance to move up here, so let's just--
gary		Like the guy's not gonna end up in a land- fill, anyway.  You ever ask Dave what he did?
jimbo		Whatever it was, he told him if he did it again, he'd snap his neck.
gary		 The song?  From that girl?
jimbo		I don't want to talk about it.
gary		Not here.
jimbo		Don't even joke.  Maybe the trash was emptied.
gary		Looks pretty full.  Hey...  If we would have shot him at least we'd know for sure.
jimbo		I was following orders.  And if you hadn't started a screaming match, no one would have called the cops and we wouldn't have had to dump his --
gary		Fine.  Sorry.
jimbo		Fine.
gary		I'm just saying... maybe you didn't break it all the way.
jimbo		 It was broken.
gary		I'm just saying... maybe it was like hypothermia and he just looked dead.
jimbo		It - was - BROKEN!
paul		How's my Angel tonight?
margaret		Blow me.  Dinner's almost ready.  You feel like some wine?  I feel like some wine.
paul		Sweetie, here's a crazy thought... I don't feel like chicken tonight, why don't we order in?
margaret		Fuck it, okay.
paul		There's actually something we need to talk about. It's about Raymond.  He's back.
raymond		 Okay, I never thought it would last this long, but seeing as how it has... There ya go.  Let me just say that my brother, old "Puddles McBarnesy" did better than he should have.
paul		What'cha saying there Raymond?  Wha'cha saying 'bout me?
raymond		Enough, OK?
paul		 Ray's a little jeallllllllous.  This is the one that got away, right Ray?
raymond		And shut that thing --
margaret		That's okay, don't worry about it.  I'd like the next one in a cup, please.
paul		 Raymond... Barnell.
jimbo		Which one's your sister's kid?
gary		See the one on the little bike-thing?  Him.
jimbo		 You been alright with this?
gary		The thing with the guy?  Ya know, I thought it might kinda mess me up...
jimbo		First time for both of us.
gary		...but I've been sleeping really well.
jimbo		Yeah.  'Course, you didn't actually...
nephew		Leggo... it's mine.  Uncle Gary!
dave		 Wait a minute.  He's disappeared?
gary		 You just... hang in there, Billy!
jimbo		Yeah.  But he's dead.  I mean, that part, no question.
dave		Yeah?  Take off your coat.  And your shirt, too.
jimbo		I'm not wearing a wire, Dave, if that's what this is about.
gary		It was our first time.  No one gets it perfect their first time.
dave		You too, Sweetie.
gary		Excuse me for a second.
jimbo		Gary!  We're in the middle of something.
gary		 Hey, I'm supposed to be looking after him.
dave		Is he...?
jimbo		He's fine.  Look, we can take you there right now. We'll show you.
dave		Show me what?  An empty trash dumpster?  It was supposed to look like an accident.  I was hoping to see it in the paper.  So help me, if this guy pops up somewhere...
bully		 Fag!  Big homo!
jimbo		He won't.  He can't.  He's --
dave		Proof, Jimbo.  I like to know my money's well spent. You got a week.
gary		Slippery little sucker.  You mind if we stop at a toy store on the way back?
paul		 Let's see if anyone's missing you.
margaret		 He's not here, is he?
paul		Sweetie, don't you worry about Raymond.
margaret		When he's around, it just brings back... Fuck.
paul		I know.  He, he said he's probably gonna head back down South soon.
paul		I'm afraid I don't understand Mrs. Wherry.
paul		Oh I see.  No, you see that must have been Raymond.    No, he's... indisposed right now, but I'm sure you'll see him again.  He's going to stay at the cabin for a while until he... leaves.  And bless you too.
paul		"...It was my own lovely lady, and she said, oh it's you..."
paul		Well come on!  How much easier do I have to make this?
margaret		Paul?
paul		 Holy-- Margaret, you scared the wits out of me.
margaret		She just wants that bacon.
paul		Such a little puppy.  How late is "Rudys" open?
paul		 You may want to take a gander.  You may want to take a gander...
paul		Sorry about this part.
detective boyle		 If it's any comfort to you, he likely wasn't eaten while conscious.  Did he say where he'd been living, before he came home?
paul		Florida.  He didn't really talk about it much.  He brought us this shell.
detective boyle		--for dead, yes sir.
paul		How did you...?
detective boyle		Anonymous phone tip from some Jamaican guy.  Said he saw what looked like a body.  We tracked you through his ID.
paul		Just like on TV.
detective boyle		Mr. Barnell,  I should warn you, an animal  attack isn't pretty.  There's not much left.
paul		They chewed his ears off.  What kind of animal does something like that?
detective boyle		Normally I'd say bear, but these tracks and the feeding pattern indicate wolf.  It's rare, but it can happen.
female cop		Coroner found some smaller bite marks on the ankle.
detective boyle		Pups.  Must have been the whole freakin' pack.
female cop		You want an autopsy?
detective boyle		On what?
female cop		Derek found this.
detective boyle		Not the smartest snack for a hiker.
female cop		Messy animals aren't they?
detective boyle		Messy.  Messy messy messy messy.
ted		I take it you're done?
tiffany		Yup.
ted		Wanna hit some of mine?
tiffany		 Nope.
ted		Now this is definitely a violation of Golf Dome policy.
tiffany		Must be all this talk about using your wood.
ted		Woods.  So maybe later I can... check your grip?
tiffany		Secret?
ted		My dirty talk sucks?
tiffany		I like it when you try, though.
ted		You know in some states they actually do this outside?
tiffany		So how many insurance companies are there in the United States?  Like, a billion.
ted		That's not the point, Tiff.  I've busted my ass for Liberty Capital.  I don't want to quit.  I deserve to be promoted out of this ice bound backwater.
tiffany		And when it happens, I guess I'll just be another notch on your briefcase.
ted		I can't believe you said that.  You know you are...
tiffany		 Sorry, what was that!  You want to take me right here?
ted		Hello?  Yeah, I'll hold.
tiffany		Your Mom?
ted		Million dollar life policy just checked.
tiffany		On a Saturday?  What about the first annual golf, sex and pizza triathlon?
ted		Look, if this is... who I think it is, I may have found us a ticket out of here.
tiffany		We don't need a ticket.
ted		You won't even know I'm gone.
detective boyle		That's him.  Raymond Barnell.
ted		Could you?
cam		Ouch.  That's gotta hurt.
ted		So what's your line on this?
detective boyle		Just what it looks like.  Wolves got him. Maybe a grizzly with insomnia, but we didn't find any tracks.
ted		Would it surprise you to learn his brother tried to cash in his policy two weeks ago?
detective boyle		You trying to tell me Mr. Barnell chewed off his brother's leg?
ted		Doesn't that make you the least bit suspicious?
detective boyle		Mr. Watters, this is a nice simple ending.  We like nice simple endings.
ted		But shouldn't you--
detective boyle		Ya know, I don't know thing one about insurance, but I'm guessing it's your job to find a way not to pay these poor people.
cam		Hey now, we're just like you guys, gotta run down whatever leads we can find.
ted		Detective, we're an insurance company, not the Salvation Army.
detective boyle		Mind telling me what you're doing?
cam		They gave every claims team a video camera last quarter... you'd be amazed at how it cuts down on litigation.  We had this case two months ago where this mother of six was claiming...
detective boyle		I've got my own war stories, thanks.  You mind stopping that?
ted		Just doing --
detective boyle		Your job?  Yes, I caught that.
tv reporter		You ready Mr. Barnell?
paul		Yes.
tv reporter		The police told us what happened, how are you folks holding up?
paul		Obviously, my wife's very upset...
paul		 It's been a tough, you know, when something like this happens you just have to ask yourself...
paul		You can see how stressful it's been, I should really go now.  We have to plan a service.
ted		This isn't a standard case.  You were there when this guy came in looking to cash in.  C'mon, it stinks.
branch		Secondly, if the police say this guy was...
cam		Eaten by wolves.  Sir.
branch		 Eaten by wolves, then we've got no case.  Did you see Mr. Barnell on the news last night?  Last thing we need is bad P.R.  I don't want this thing Valdeez-ing on us.
ted		Mr. Branch, I'm sure head office would take a rather dim view of our --
branch		Corporate's view will be whatever I tell them.
cam		Yes Sir.  Color us called off, as of now.
ted		Stop looking at me right now.
cam		You've got a strange way of bucking for a promotion, my friend.  Look, I'm gonna start on the Johnasen file.  You want to do up the paper work on Barnell?
ted		Lunch.
cam		At 9:30?
ted		The police say they found Raymond's wallet, that's how they tracked you down?
paul		That's right, yes.
ted		Any idea what he was doing out there?
paul		He'd go for walks.  Hikes, I mean.  Hiking.
ted		How sporty.  Was he a big hiker?
paul		Not sure I follow.
ted		Did he hike more than once a week?  Or was this a... one time thing?
paul		Can I ask why you need to know all this?
ted		Just trying to tie up a few loose ends.
paul		You know the police... they say Raymond died in the attack.  You do cover that sort of thing don't you?
ted		 Yes sir.  It shouldn't take more than a few days. Now, tell me a little more about your brother.  The hiker.
jimbo		Cod or Halibut?
gary		Didn't ask.
jimbo		 So we got six different stores here. We got your "Great Escapes" travel agency, your Ye Old Fish and Chips place, Porn-a-Copia videos, a hair place, one for lease and one... what is that?
gary		Small engine repair.  See all the snow blowers out front.
jimbo		So, which one you figure would want to take our friend?
gary		I guess maybe the porn palace.  Ya know for some weird sex film.
jimbo		Yeah, this place is just a hotbed of adult cinema production.  Fish shop look clean?
gary		Very nice Korean family.  You figure maybe they battered him up?
jimbo		Gary, this isn't a joke.  You ever known Dave to joke?
gary		Sorry.
jimbo		Yeah, "Sorry."  I get strip searched and you go off playing snow angels...
jimbo		Wait a minute.
ted		Yeah, hi, it's Ted Watters from Fidelity Mutual.  I need a complete credit work up on a Raymond Barnell... and Paul, a Paul Barnell too... sure, I'll hold.
cam		You start the month ends yet?
ted		Can you take care of it?  I'm kinda... working on something.
cam		Oh God, you're not still on the Barnell thing are you--
ted		I went to see him.
cam		And?  Then?  So?
ted		Trust me. Something's not right.  I can smell it.  Help me buy a week.
cam		We're gonna get in such trouble.
ted		I promise from now on you can come along on everything.
cam		No more Cam goes to the coffee room and Ted disappears for three hours?
ted		I'll try.
cam		And you'll work on your interpersonal skills?
ted		 Yes.
cam		Good.  Now if you'll excuse me, I'll go start covering your ass.
paul		Hey.  How's my Princess?
margaret		OK.  I took some Adavan.  And called my psychic.
paul		 Honey, you know how expensive that is.  I thought we agreed that...
margaret		Don't be mad.  It's just... this week has been so... well with Raymond getting eaten by animals and someone trying to steal the fridge.
paul		I know.  Why don't you --
margaret		We got another letter from the HMO today.
paul		Have you opened it yet?
margaret		I'm sorry.  It's just, fucking cocksuckers.
paul		"As we have stated previously... usual onset before
margaret		I'm sick!  I'm really, really sick!
paul		Shush, now.   "We hasten to add, Tourette Syndrome is not..."
margaret		Fuck them.
paul		"As well, please reference our previous decisions regarding your claims for ADD, ODO, OCD, ADHOPHI...  Honey.  I know you don't like to talk about it, but maybe it's not... what we might think it is but... maybe it's just stress?  Remember that cruise?  I saw you. You were happy.
margaret		They say you can't get it all of a sudden but I did.  I really, really did.
paul		I know.  They just don't --
margaret		I'll kill myself.  Then they'll see.
paul		That is nonsense talk.
margaret		Then you can go off and...  ...marry someone normal.
paul		You're the most normal girl I know.
margaret		I'm not crazy, Paul.  Something's really wrong with me.
paul		I know, Sweetie.  I know.  And we're gonna find you the best specialists in...  ...what you have that we can.
margaret		Promise?
paul		I really think things are going to turn around.  Call me cr... I just have a feeling.  You just leave everything to me, OK?  Is that OK?  Leave everything to me?  I promise.
margaret		 Shit bag.
paul		That's my girl.
ted		Hey.
ted		What about thirty minutes or free?
pizza guy		Doesn't apply when it's snowing.
ted		 So nine months of the year your guarantee is worthless?
pizza guy		It doesn't snow every day.
ted		They should really tell people when they order.
tiffany		Would you just give him the money already?
pizza guy		It's not my decision.
ted		I know that.  I'm just saying.
pizza guy		Sure.
ted		You understand though?
pizza guy		Absolutely.
ted		It wouldn't take much.
pizza guy		Full disclosure to the pizza consumer. I'll be sure to pass that along.
tiffany		Why you gotta argue with the service industry?
ted		The problem with people today is they don't expect anyone to tell the truth. We've just come to accept lying as acceptable.
tiffany		If this is another passive/aggressive shot at Psychic Buddies, all our ads state "for amusement purposes only."
ted		Tiff, it has nothing to do with... look, just forget it.
tiffany		You remember being amused, don't ya, honey? What is with you anyway?
ted		Want to know what's "with" me?  I'm on the verge of cracking the biggest case of my career, one that corporate has to notice, and nobody gives a crap. Not my boss, and not even my girlfriend.
tiffany		So this is my fault?
ted		No, it's not your fault. I just want to live somewhere where road hazards don't have antlers and the pizza doesn't have to be delivered by dogsled.
tiffany		You know, even though Edward G. Robinson wins, everyone like Fred MacMurray better.
ted		 All these yours?
ted		I'm fine.  Did you talk to Raymond at all when he came home?  Was he getting along with his brother?
ted		Waved?
ted		Was he much of an outdoorsman?
ted		Mrs. Wherry, I'm sorry, but --
ted		I'm sorry, did you say you thought it was Paul who did your driveway?
ted		 That's really super, Simon.  Now how'd you like to run some names for me?
cam		Now, now.  Let's not forget who's pulling double duty.
ted		 Sorry.
cam		Much better.  So?
ted		Turns out our Mr. Barnell is mortgaged to the nuts. His business is about one step away from chapter 11.  Plus it's like his brother Raymond never existed.  He's got no credit history, no nothing for the last five years.
cam		Ya know, not having a credit history isn't actually a crime.  People around here have been known to swap a snow mobile for 500 pounds of venison. Doesn't exactly leave a paper trail.
ted		Yes, but he was in Florida, someplace.  Plus, the only thing he did after his recent "reappearance" was get some new ID and a new credit card.  Didn't charge anything.
cam		Wow.  Less than nothing.
ted		It's something.
cam		No it's not... in my humble, junior investigator's opinion.
ted		Watters, claims.  Yeah, hang on...  It's personal.  I promise.
minister		When someone is taken from us at such a young age we often ask ourselves, why?  What possible purpose could this serve?
gary		We should have checked the funeral announcements right away.
jimbo		Shoot.
paul		That was lovely, thank you so much.
minister		Margaret, Paul, you two get some sleep.
margaret		...nun banger.
minister		Absolutely.
ted		Mr. Barnell.  There was no hurry on this, we could wait until--
paul		It's OK.  We just wrapped up.  This is my wife, Margaret.
margaret		Okee dokee, smokee.
paul		She's under a little strain right now.
ted		I see the media's here.  They don't give people a moment's peace, do they?
paul		I called them.
ted		 Really?
paul		Well, they've been asking me to talk some more about Raymond.  I thought now might be an appropriate time.
ted		And you'll just happen to mention your heartless insurance company that hasn't paid off your policy yet.
paul		I had to borrow money for the casket, Mr. Ted.
ted		You are breaking my heart.
paul		No, I doubt that.  They asked me to bring some photos of Raymond.  Guess it's gonna be a pretty big story.
ted		Enjoy your press conference, Mr. Barnell.
jimbo		That's your plan?
gary		How tough can it be?
jimbo		You ever try digging through six feet of half frozen sod?  We'd need a back hoe.  Can you operate a back hoe?  Do you know where we'd get a back hoe?  We don't even know for sure...
gary		Oh please.  Don't you think it's a pretty neat coincidence?
jimbo		Maybe we just go explain it to Dave.
gary		He won't take it well.
jimbo		Then I'm all for new options, here, Gary.   If we give the money back--
gary		Hey, wait a minute, now.  We did the job.  We deserve the--
jimbo		I did the job, Gary.  I know, because I haven't been sleeping for the last week.
gary		I don't know why you're letting it get to you like this. Look, let's just not rush into anything.  It's my turn to step up.  I know that.  I'm on it.
margaret		Hey little, Bambi.  Where's your Mommy?  Gettin' it from some ten point buck.  Yes she is.  Yes she is.
margaret		Stay away from our fucking appliances.
gary		Lady, just calm down.
margaret		You are in so much trouble.
gary		Lady, so help me I --
cam		So you're a souvenir wholesaler?
spellman		For the cruise ship trade, mostly.  Usual stuff, stuffed animals, your huskies, your moose, your baby seals, your whales, your walrus --
ted		They came in through there?
spellman		 Yeah.  Through that... big hole in the roof.  I got a list of all the things that are missing.
ted		How much?
spellman		Uh, we figure about 200,000, plus fixing the roof. Now I know you guys are gonna bust my --
ted		Fax over your estimate.  We'll have you a check by Friday.
cam		 Ted.  Maybe we should take a look at their inventory list first?
ted		This is a simple case, Cam.  Bad guys, through roof, stole stuff.  Let's clear it and get going.
spellman		I should tell you... we also had some VCRs we were holding for another company.  That could run another couple of...
ted		Cam?  You wanna wrap this up?  Gotta go primary some time.
cam		Mr. Spellman?  Now I noticed a nice looking computer in your office.  Why do you think they left that?
margaret		You try and rape me, I swear to Christ I'll bite it off.
margaret		So what now, you gonna get me smokin' from both ends?
gary		I just came to look around, but she started yelling and hitting me...
margaret		Oh please.
jimbo		How the hell is this solving our problem?  How is this stepping up?
gary		Just listen, okay.
margaret		Yeah, listen, if the fat from your neck hasn't stopped up your ears.
jimbo		This is not what we do.
gary		It is now.
jimbo		Where would we stash her?  Your place?
gary		Too small, plus we'd have to get her in and out without anyone seeing.  And I've seen that sty you call an apartment.
jimbo		See, it's just a bad idea.
gary		Yeah.  Maybe.  You see the whirlpool tub?
jimbo		You can't be serious.
gary		It could be like a little getaway.
paul		Hey Maggie-magster.  How ya --
gary		Mr. Barnell.  You have something that belongs to us.
paul		I, I don't know what you're talking about.
jimbo		Do you remember a dead man you found in the dumpster behind your office?
paul		No, I can't say that... I mean that would probably stick in my mind a... dead body.
gary		Think hard Mr. Barnell.
gary		I thought it might be some weirdo sex thing, ya know?  But you look like a pretty straight arrow.  So then I'm thinking, maybe it's a scam.  Maybe somehow our friend is worth some money to you.
paul		We, we had a life insurance policy on my brother.  It was for... 100,000 dollars.
gary		You know, it's always you quiet guys.  Here's how it's going to work.  We stay here with your wife, you go get our guy.
paul		Here?
gary		We even see you or a cop even roll past, she's dead. Plus you'll have to explain how you scammed the insurance people out of their hard earned money.  We'll call you in three days. Have the body and, let's say 50,000 dollars for our trouble.  Screw with us, we start mailing your wife back to you.
jimbo		He gone?
gary		He was scared.  Really scared.
jimbo		You used the feet thing, didn't you?
gary		No.
tiffany		Hey, little help here.  I got Pop Tarts.
ted		Shhhh.  This is the important part.
tiffany		This stops now.  This case is making me and you crazy, especially you.
ted		I don't have any complaints about my... you.
tiffany		 Dead guy's got a record?  Cool.
ted		Yeah. He beat the hell out of some guy in bar fight. Broke the guy's eye socket.
tiffany		Honey?
ted		Yeah?
tiffany		I think you should read this again.
margaret		We don't have any money, you know.
gary		Lady.  Please.
margaret		If you want Raymond's fucking insurance money... we don't have that either.
gary		It's none of your business what we want.
margaret		It's a disease.  It's called Tourette Syndrome.  I can't control what I say.  Turnip.
gary		Really?
margaret		You've taken a handicapped person hostage.  I hope you're proud of yourself.
gary		I saw this thing on TV where they said people with that don't usually curse.
margaret		They must have got it wrong.
gary		I don't think so.  It was a movie of the week based on real events.  Don't most of Tourette's people twitch and stuff?
margaret		Over the sink.  And what's that supposed to mean?
gary		Nothing.  Cumin?
margaret		On the left.   And I'm not... crazy, it's a physical disease.  Sometimes I can control it, and sometimes --
gary		You can't?  Want to know what I think?  I think this "syndrome" is something you read about somewhere and figured, hey, works for me.
margaret		Ass-rimming ball-sucker.
gary		You can completely abdicate your societal responsibilities, say whatever you want whenever you want, and slough it off on a illness.  Maybe I should catch this thing. "Gee, sorry Your Honor, I have a disease that makes me rob 7-11s."  It's called really need a Slurpee disease.
margaret		You've never robbed a 7-11 in your life you shit eating fuck-weasel.  What kind of man threatens a woman with a gun, anyway?
gary		You are so faking it.
margaret		Oh, I'm faking it?  Is this how you get your kicks, you over-compensating pussy little fart sack?
gary		Hey!  Keep your voice down or the gag goes back.
margaret		You don't scare me.  If something bad was going to happen, my psychic would have told me.
paul		Just for a bit.
paul		 Would it have killed you to clean up before you left, Raymond?
paul		Who is it?
paul		 Yes, is there something wrong--
raymond		Hello brother.
paul		Raymond?  Is that...
raymond		Page 16, Paul. That's why I love "USA Today", news from every fuckin' state.  Don't you want to read it?  I was eaten by wild fuckin' animals.  But ya know, despite that, I'm feeling pretty God-damned chipper.
paul		Raymond, let me tell you what happened here.  We all thought you were...
raymond		Dead?  Yeah, I got that impression.
paul		But you had dropped off the face of the earth.
raymond		And you just decide to make it permanent?
paul		But there were no records of you anywhere.  I checked.
raymond		In certain lines of quasi-legal employment, using your actual ID can be a hinderance.  But despite the reliance on aliases, it's nice to have your actual birth certificate to fall back on.  Gotta tell ya, Paul, I was pretty pissed.
paul		Life insurance.
raymond		Figured.  So where's my money?
paul		Your money?  They're still... investigating.
raymond		What you get?
paul		Fifty thousand.
raymond		 Almost worth coming back for.  What's the split?  I get half?
paul		 You look good.  Lost some weight?
raymond		Gave up carbs.  So what are you doing out here? She not go along with it?
paul		Who?  Margaret?
raymond		How she hold up, anyway?
paul		She's fine.  Actually, we're not doing so good right now.
raymond		Any kids?  Still can't get one by the goalie, huh.
jimbo		Hey.
gary		 Hey.
jimbo		Talked to our friend.  We're okay for now.  How's everything here?
gary		Oh, just great.  Seventy six, perfectly normal.  What a shock.
margaret		He's a little over tired.
jimbo		It's been a rough week.
margaret		 Really?  Why?  You and your life partner in the shitter having trouble picking a China pattern?
jimbo		 Um, um... Gary?
margaret		I have a psychiatric disorder.  And so do you!
paul		Mr. Watters.  You said on the phone something about a resolution in our claim?
ted		Mr. Barnell.  Why are you staying out here?
paul		My wife and I, we're having some problems.
ted		Kind of understandable I guess.  Seeing as how you killed that man and dumped his body out in the woods.
paul		You mean Raymond?
ted		No.  Not Raymond.  Definitely not Raymond.  I thought it was at first, but that's what was throwing me...
paul		I'm not sure I appreciate your tone.
ted		My tone, Mr. Barnell?  You are going to jail.  I will personally see to that.
paul		I really think you should go now.
ted		You are a liar and thief.
paul		You know Mr. Watters, I've had a pretty rough night, so if you wouldn't mind just leaving.
ted		 Hey.  How'd you get all cut up?
paul		I'm fine, Mrs. Wherry.  Just go back inside.
paul		I'm fine.  Really.  I think you'd better go.
raymond		He give you the check?
paul		No.  He thinks I...  It'll be fine.
raymond		Maybe I'll pay him a little visit.  See if we can speed up the process.
paul		You don't have to... I figured out a way to take care of things.
raymond		Yeah, I was watching from the window.
paul		You can't do that, Raymond.  If someone sees you...
raymond		Ya know, I been thinking there, Paulie.
paul		About what?
raymond		After we get her back from these guys who grabbed her, you think your wife'll be able to keep her mouth shut?
paul		I don't think I...
raymond		Crazy people talk a lot.  And I think if you tell your therapist something, they can use it in court.
paul		She's not...  she doesn't have a therapist.
raymond		 Still, might wanna think about it.
paul		Think about what?
raymond		You crossed over into the bigs now, Paulie.  Fraud. Consorting with felons.  Got to "cowboy up."
paul		Cowboy up?
raymond		Get tough, ya suck-hole.  I'm just saying sometimes a man has to make problematic decisions.  Cull the heard, so to speak.  Paul, come on, just kiddin' around, here.  Don't be such a fuckin' stick.
branch		Watters.  Glad you're... Mr. Barnell was just telling me about the... meeting you two had.
ted		I caught that, yes.
branch		As you can see... well, Mr. Barnell has some... concerns.
ted		You don't think I did this?
branch		Ted, his neighbor says... otherwise.
ted		Now just hang on here.  Let me show you something...
ted		See?  Where's the birthmark?  Your brother's police report listed it...  But I don't see it.  Not on this body.  You can see it in the picture.  See?
paul		It... did get better.
ted		Did it now.  Well how in the world did that happen?
paul		Raymond was always... bothered by it. When he came back from... Florida, he'd had it fixed.  Laser surgery... like removing a tattoo.
ted		He did not.
paul		You taped my brother's body, in the morgue?
ted		Oh for... he's lying.  It's obvious he...
branch		That will be just about enough of that. Mr. Barnell, I'm sorry it's all come to this.  We'll have a check brought over to you tomorrow morning.
ted		Sir, with all due respect, he's --
branch		Jesus, we're lucky he's not suing.  Now tomorrow, you deliver the check to Mr. Barnell with a complete apology.
ted		Fine, I understand how this looks --
branch		It looks like you beat the hell out of one of our policy holders.  Now send Cam in here.
ted		Why?
branch		Well, while you were off on your little Easter Egg hunt, your junior found us an out on that warehouse robbery.  Head office is bumping him a level.
ted		 I'll go get him.
branch		They're very keen on him.  They want me to feel him out on a transfer --
paul		Hello... yes, I'm wondering what city department would be in charge of... sure, I can hold.  Hang on Mag Pie, just hang on.
raymond		Listen you little prick, we've had just about enough of this.  You get me?
paul		Ray -
raymond		Hey Paul.  Took care of our little problem today.  We should see some serious money any time, soon.
paul		Could... I have a word with you?
paul		 Are those...?
raymond		 I sure as hell hope so, cause Jehovah's Witnesses won't lick your lolly no matter how much you pay them.
paul		How did you get them here?
raymond		Put it on my plastic.  See, got my name on it and everything.  It's every where I want to be.
paul		You can't use that.  You're supposed to be dead! They'll track us down.
raymond		You think they give a shit who pays the bill?  Think for a minute, will ya?
paul		What... Raymond, what is... this?
raymond		That's "muh gun," Paul.
paul		Yes, hello.  Sorry, what?
jimbo		You having a party, Mr. Barnell?  That's... that's not right.
gary		Thirty, sorry, startinnng... Now!
paul		There's no party...let me talk to my wife.
jimbo		Hang on.
gary		Twenty-five!
paul		Why are you counting?
margaret		Paul?  Are you entertaining?
paul		 Oh God, oh Jesus... Margaret, are you okay?
gary		Fifteen!  No, I'm the other guy. Have you got the body?
margaret		 Paul, the carrot little weasly one wants to carrot screw me with his sick carrot little cock.  And he's messing up my kitchen.  Carrotcarrocarrot...
paul		You sick... Don't you hurt her!!
gary		I never said anything like--  Yes or no.  Ten seconds.
paul		Yes! It'll... it'll happen tomorrow.  Put Margaret back on!
paul		Hello?
gary		I think I managed to avoid a trace.
jimbo		 We're staying at his house.
avis		Hello.  Can I help you?
ted		Mr. Barnell.  I have your check.
paul		Thank you, I appreciate that.  Please, sit.
ted		I was mugged.  The cops say it was just a random act of violence.  But who knows, right?  You'll have to sign.
paul		No, please.  You don't have to...
ted		That's quite the shell.
paul		 It was a gift from Raymond.  He bought it for me from Florida.  It's all we have to remember him by.
ted		That and a million dollars.  Things really worked out for you, didn't they? lots of cash, newly single guy...
paul		I'm not single.
ted		...so you gonna head down to Club Med?  See how much fun a big bank roll can buy?
paul		Mr. Watters, I love my wife.  Very much.
ted		Can we level with each other for a moment?  Did you --
paul		Avis!  Avis?
avis		Oh, that's where you went.
ted		That's quite the display.
avis		They do some very nice in store promotions.
paul		So, right here, by the X.
tiffany		There's nothing to be embarrassed about.  A lot of people find talking to a psychic very therapeutic.  So what's on your mind, Carlos?
paul		I have a situation.  My wife...  do you think it's okay to do something kinda bad to someone if you think they're gonna do something really bad to someone else?
tiffany		Sure.
paul		What if it's a really bad thing?
tiffany		Well, you probably shouldn't break the law if you can help it.  Are you really sure they're going to do this other thing?
paul		I'm... I... I don't know.  He said some things.  He said he was joking, but I... I think he might.
tiffany		Don't think, know.  How close are you to the other someone else, the one you're trying to protect?
paul		 I just, I just...  Have you ever felt like that?  Like your own life didn't even matter, as long as...
tiffany		 Listen to me, Carlos.  Your wife is an incredibly lucky woman.  I know, relationships are tough, but you do what you gotta do to keep it together, okay? Remember, love is sacrifice.
paul		 I guess you're right.
tiffany		Now you get tough.  And remember, this call is for entertainment purposes only.  Call me back and let me know how it goes.
paul		 She's having sex with them.
raymond		Who's doing what?
paul		Margaret.  You know that Stockholm Syndrome thing?
raymond		The movie?
paul		When you fall in love with your kidnappers.
raymond		Get the fuck out of here.
paul		I went by there.  She was in the bedroom with the big one.  With other men, not kidnappers.
raymond		For real?
paul		Her therapist.  And some guy she... hardly knew.
raymond		Wow.  Sucks to be you.
paul		Shut up.
raymond		I always knew she was a fucking tease.
paul		Yeah.  Guess you were right.
raymond		Well, you want my opinion...  I don't trust her, Paul.  Never did.
paul		You think she'd... really mess things up?
raymond		Only one way to make sure she doesn't.
paul		Not sure what you're saying?
raymond		You remember that pooch Mom had?  Crazy little Jack Russel with the bladder infection?
paul		Whole basement stank.
raymond		Nothing you can do but put the thing out of it's misery.  And yours.
paul		You... You sure, Ray?
raymond		Trust me, Bro'.  Leaky dogs, crazy women.  Two things no man should have to live with.
avis		Mr. Barnell?  I didn't expect you back today.  Nice jacket.
paul		Well... I am.  And Avis?
avis		Yes?
paul		You've been with me for five years?  Paul?  Can we make it Paul?
avis		Sure.  I just thought it was more professional when people were around to call you Mr. Barnell.
avis		Are you OK, Paul?
paul		No Avis, to be frank I'm a little frazzled right now. Now could you get me some tape, my passport out of the safe and two open-ended tickets to Paraguay.
arnith		Trouble is the city keeps cutting us back and cutting us back.
paul		Excuse me, are you Arnith?
arnith		How'd you know?
paul		Know what?
arnith		That he didn't want to be buried.
raymond		He left it in a letter.
arnith		And you just got it now?
paul		Ya know, I don't mean to be rude here, but I'm not sure this is any of your business.
arnith		That's entirely possible.
paul		I, I don't think this is anything to be flippant about.
arnith		I appreciate that, Sir.  But I'm on a union specified break right now, which means you are talking to me as a private citizen. Now as a private citizen I can pretty much say whatever I want to. If you talk to me in 15 minutes I can assure you, you will be afforded every courtesy as specified in the workers policy guide and recently ratified in our latest collective agreement dated --
paul		Sorry.  I'm just --
arnith		Trying to get your brother out of the ground. We couldn't be more pleased.  You've arranged for transportation of the remains?
raymond		We're gonna take him to go.
bill		See, now that's a problem.  We can't release the body into your custody unless you are licensed by the state to convey deceased persons.
arnith		Good point Bill.  Bill knows exhumation policy.  You can look it up but I'm betting he's right.  You come back with a bonded agent and we'll get right on this.
paul		I'll give you five hundred dollars to go get him now.
cam		So... Miami, huh?  Can you believe that?  One little case and "boom", you're the flavor of the month.
ted		 Congratulations.  Why are you here?
cam		Say thanks.  I really owe you.  If you hadn't given me a shot on that--
ted		Forget it.  I'm trying to.
cam		So we were all kinda wondering... what did happen to your face?
ted		 Car trouble.
cam		Should you be driving?
ted		Absolutely not.
gary		We set?
jimbo		Yeah.  How you feel about the turnout by Summit Hill where the snowmobilers park?
gary		Fine.
margaret		Tastes like a rectal polyp.
jimbo		 How would she know.
ted		Blowing town, are we, Mr. Barnell?  I don't think so.
raymond		See, I could have had her.  We both know that, but I figured, she was such a... I mean, I don't know why... You know why?
raymond		Does a duck shit under water?
paul		They said it'd be in tomorrow by --
raymond		Right, right, you told me.  Then all we have to do is get her and the thing... Hey, remember that time in school, when I jumped out and scared you, and you fucking pee'd all over yourself?
paul		Was pretty funny.  Bottoms up.
raymond		Okay, "Puddles."  Remember how they called you that?  Huh, "Puddles?"  Christ, what time is it?
paul		It's early.  Come on... ya...  ...pussy.
raymond		 What's going on.
paul		We're out of coffee.  But I'll be right back.  Still early.
margaret		Paul?
ted		Yeah?  Hello?    Hello?
margaret		Oh thank fucking Christ.  Is Tiffany there?
ted		No, she's...
margaret		Well you should know, fuck-wit.  You know there's a man with a gun in my shower, right now?
ted		Hang on, she's on her way --
tiffany		I'm here, Margaret.  How you feeling today?
ted		Give me the headset.
tiffany		 What is wrong with you?
margaret		Christ, where do you want to start?
tiffany		Sorry about that.  Mrs. Barnell?  Could you speak up a bit?
ted		What's she saying?
tiffany		Something about the gay mafia taking her to a park to kill her.  Can you hand me my Help Line list?
ted		What... Wha...
tiffany		Margaret, are you sure these are real people in your house?
ted		Find out where she...
tiffany		 Well then it's a good thing you called.  Nope, not seeing any problems, but hang on, let me really concentrate.
ted		Ask her...
margaret		Shit on toast.
ted		You're sure this is it?
tiffany		She specifically mentioned the cock-sucking turnout up the highway where the snowmobilers hang out.
ted		I'll call later.
tiffany		I won't be here.
ted		Excuse me?
tiffany		I know relationships aren't all sunshine and roses, but I'm really not having fun anymore, and I don't think you are either.
ted		God, now's so not the time, Tiff.
tiffany		Maybe you have to be like this right now, and I'm just not in a good space to deal with it.  But...
ted		But what?
tiffany		Maybe we shouldn't be like this together.
ted		OK.  Come on.
tiffany		 Really?
ted		I've been cutting you out of my life and as a result our normal communication channels have been blocked.  I think you coming with me would... would...
tiffany		If you're going to be sarcastic.
ted		I'm not being anything.  Swear to God.
tiffany		Okay.  Why do you want me to come?
ted		 Cause if you don't, then I'll have to stay, and I'll be mad at you and eventually we'll break up over it, and as bad as my life is right now, that would make it a million times worse.
tiffany		 Mr. Bennett, she's totally cool with it.  but listen, you're gonna have to call back... I gotta go help my boyfriend.
tiffany		Okay, it's called the listening game.  You talk, I listen, and I can't interrupt.  Then we switch.
ted		Doesn't sound like much of a game, but...  I can talk about anything?
tiffany		Yes.
gary		See the little box down there?  Lists all the symptoms of that Tourette's thing, and you don't have half of them.
margaret		And?
gary		And?  And you're faking it.
margaret		Magazines don't prove anything.
jimbo		Gary, can we just try and get there in peace?
gary		Magazines prove everything!!
gary		You can't be serious.
jimbo		I'm still not sleeping.
gary		Jimbo.  Come on.
jimbo		It's a thought, okay.  With hard work, you can live okay as a civilian.
gary		After all this...
jimbo		Yeah, after all this.
gary		Don't you go soft on me, Jimbo.
tiffany		So this is kind of like a really weird "Law and Order" episode?
ted		Sure.  I guess.
tiffany		And if Paul Barnell already killed his brother...
ted		Maybe his wife is next.
tiffany		Cool.  My turn?  Now a healthy relationship is...
ted		Hey, here we are.
girl		Calibre?
jimbo		Mr. Barnell.  I'll assume you've got our friend back there?
paul		Yes.  You can let her go now.
tiffany		 So, do you have a plan here?
ted		I'm gonna go talk to him.  You mind staying here?
tiffany		I guess.  So when do we call the cops?
ted		Soon as I... if he actually is doing... something.  I'll wave, alright?
tiffany		That's a very good plan.
ted		That was...
tiffany		Who?
gary		How do we know it's him?
paul		Come on!  Where would I get another one?
ted		Excuse me.  Aren't you... Raymond Barnell?
raymond		I know you?
ted		 You're... You're dead?
raymond		Go away, now.
ted		Okay, I don't know exactly what's going on here, but if you would come with me to my office, just for a few minutes, it would really help me out with my boss.
raymond		 How much?
ted		See, your brother has, and I use this term carefully, stolen a million dollars from my insurance company. Now if we--
paul		It's all over honey.  It's all over.  Did they hurt you?
margaret		 Does food poisoning count?  Have you been eating?
paul		You know me when I get busy.
margaret		Did you fall?
paul		Just a little.  Hey, we're gonna get...
jimbo		Who the hell is that?
margaret		Paul?
paul		 Honey, I need you to start walking to that hill over there, alright?
margaret		Why?
paul		I'll catch up in a bit.  Now, no matter what you hear, just keep going, alright.  And if I'm... late or something, just look in the coat, alright?
gary		 Jimbo?
raymond		 A million dollars, Paul!?  You really think you could take me?  Again!
jimbo		What million dollars?
paul		Raymond... please.
jimbo		Hey!  What the fuck!!
raymond		And you do?
gary		You first.
jimbo		Gary!  Just --
raymond		You win, tough guy.
gary		 Sorry.
paul		Oh God... Oh Jesus...
margaret		 Oh fucking hell... I can't... breath.
paul		Can you stand.
margaret		Is... The Pope... a...
paul		Okay, easy...
gary		 He just, fell... Oh Jesus, oh God.
jimbo		I know.
raymond		 Look at me, you little...
ted		Where do think you're going?
tiffany		Ted, leave him alone.
ted		No, no, no.  I have been beaten, humiliated, had my head squeezed by a guy... and I am getting some answers, right now.
paul		Okay.
ted		Well go ahead.  I can still kind of hear out of this one.
paul		 I love my wife, Mr. Watters.  And when you love someone, I mean, really love someone...
ted		 I want a fucking Hallmark card or the lyrics to a Foreigner rock ballad, I'll go to the mall, Mr. Barnell.
tiffany		They call this the listening game.  Mr. Barnell, you get to go first.
ted		Knock yourself out.
tiffany		Hey.
ted		Hey yourself.
tiffany		So where you want to go?
ted		Somewhere close.  My three o'clock's been moved up.
tiffany		Cool.  You alright about everything?
ted		Yeah.  The life policy was written on his brother, and he did, you know, die.  I may be rationalizing a bit, but ethically I think I'm okay.
tiffany		Good.  I like it when you're okay.
ted		Learning to.
paul		How you feeling?
margaret		Pretty damn good.
paul		I can tell.
margaret		Can you?
dave		Why don't we go there after?  Fine.  We'll do it now.
dave's wife		Watch the curb.
dave		Looks like weather.
****Dialogues from script :Birdman.txt****

riggan		Sam, I can't--
sam		Dad? What kind of--  What kind of flowers did you say you wanted?
riggan		Alchemillas. Or something soothing that smells nice. Listen I can't-- SAM It all smells like fucking Kimchi!
riggan		Then whatever looks nice. Anything but roses. No roses.
korean		Flowers don't need you touch! They need you buy!!!
sam		 I hate this job.
riggan		Shit... Riggan throws on a sweater and stumbles into his slacks. He hurries out...
stage hand		Mr. Thomson.
riggan		Steve.
stage hand		It's Daniel.
riggan		 Okay.
jake		How's it going, buddy.
riggan		Great. It'd be even better if I could get Ralph to stop acting like he's in an educational video for syphilis... The camera moves off of them and onto...
lesley		He loved me.
ralph		Yeah. He loved her so much he tried to kill her.
laura		He tried to kill you?
lesley		No.  you, bitch." What do you do with a love like that?
ralph		How is that-- That is not love and you know it. Why do you insist on calling it--
lesley		You can say what you want, but I know what it was. RALPH What about you, Nick? Does that sound like love to you?
riggan		Sorry I'm late.  I'm the wrong person to ask. I didn't know the man. I've only heard his name mentioned in passing. You'd have to know the particulars. But I think what you're saying is that love is absolute.
ralph		Yeah. The kind of love I'm talking about is... The kind of love I'm talking about, you don't try and kill people.
lesley		 It was love, Mel. To Eddie, it was. I don't care what anybody says. He was ready to die for it.
ralph		Ask her what he did after she left him.
lesley		He shot himself in the mouth. But he screwed that up, too. Poor Ed.
ralph		Poor Ed, my ass. The guy was dangerous.
laura		How'd he screw it up if he shot himself in the mouth?
riggan		 Okay. Fugitives are on the run, Ralph. How many times do I have to-- Fugitives are scared. Give me more of that.
ralph		 We lived like fugitives those days...
laura		Christ. What a nightmare...
ralph		He used to call me at the hospital and say...  "Son of a bitch. Your days are numbered."
laura		Holy shit. 
lesley		Is he breathing?
jake		Someone call 911! Riggan slowly backs away from the chaos.
laura		Is that blood coming out of his ear?
jake		 Where are you going? LESLEY Okay, he's breathing. What did he have for lunch?
laura		Did anyone call for help?
annie		 Wake up! Wake up!
crew member		Grab his legs. I got the top.
jake		Don't move him! Wait for the ambulance.  For the love of God! I could get a black audience in this theater faster than a doctor!
jake		Where are you going? We'll have the understudy ready to rehearse in five-- 
riggan		Forget the understudy. We have to postpone the preview.
jake		What are you-- It's a full house. We would have to refund all the--
riggan		Then do it. A crew member passes in the opposite direction.
crew member		How's Ralph?
riggan		He'll be fine.
jake		Wait. Wait. Fuck. Wait. RIGGAN Listen to me. It was going to be a disaster. That guy's the worst actor I've ever seen. The blood coming out of his ear was the most honest thing he's done so far.
jake		He's not that bad.
jake		What do you mean?
riggan		I--  I made it happen.
jake		Oh. Okay.  Are you drunk?
riggan		Find me an actor. A good actor. Philip Seymour Hoffman... JAKE He's doing the third Hunger Games.
riggan		Michael Fassbender?
jake		Doing the prequel to the X-Men prequel. They arrive at Riggan's dressing room.
riggan		What's his name? Jeremy Renner...
jake		Who?
riggan		The... the Hurt Locker guy.
jake		Yeah. He's an Avenger.
riggan		 Look, I don't care. Find me someone. Riggan enters...
jake		 Ralph'll sue us. He'll sue us. And he's got a case.
riggan		Then make him go away.
jake		How do you suggest I do that?
riggan		You're my   lawyer, my producer and my oldest   friend. We are going to make this   work. Now just get out there and   do what you were born to do.
jake		What's that?
riggan		I have no idea. But I have faith. Now go away from me. JAKE Do you think we should--
blond woman		...and when we come back, an exclusive interview with Robert Downey Jr., who tells us about the billion-dollar Iron Man franchise. The talented actor invited us
riggan		"Breathing in, I embrace my anger. Breathing out, I smile to it."
riggan		Not now!
riggan		No.
laura		Okay. Two words. Shia La Beouf.
riggan		That's three words.
laura		It's two.
riggan		Get out.
laura		I love you.
riggan		I don't have an actor. LAURA I don't have a life.
riggan		Laura...
laura		Fine. Whatever. 
riggan		Go away.
laura		So far? No fun.
gabriel		Why does somebody go from playing the lead in a comic book franchise to adapting Raymond Carver for the stage?
riggan		Well... Absolutely. As you said... that Barthes said... Birdman, like Icarus...
clara		Hang on. Who's this Barthes guy? Which Birdman was he in?
gabriel		Roland Barthes was a French philosopher, who-- CLARA Oh. Okay. Sure. Now, is it true you've been injecting yourself with semen from baby pigs?
riggan		What?
clara		As a method of facial rejuvenation.
riggan		Who told you that?
clara		It was tweeted by...  @prostatewhispers.
riggan		It's a lie.
clara		I know. But did you do it?
riggan		No!
gabriel		Are you afraid at all that people will say you're doing this play to battle the impression that you're a washed-up super hero?
riggan		No. I'm not. And that's exactly why 20 years ago I refused to do
han		Birdman 4??? You do Birdman 4???
jake		Okay. That's enough for today. Thank you for coming. We're expecting some great pieces from you...
riggan		I don't want to look at it anymore. JAKE That was a present from the crew. Don't fuck with those guys, they're union.
riggan		I don't care.
jake		So... How'd it go?
riggan		Great.
jake		 Did they ask about Ralph?
riggan		Nope.
jake		Good. He did it, you know? The motherfucker threatened to sue us. Didn't even wait to get out of the hospital.
riggan		And, what did you say? 
jake		What'd I say? I said, "You motherfucker. You're threatening me? ME? I swear to god, you fuck, I so much as get a letter from a lawyer, the press'll get the pictures we got off your computer."
riggan		What pictures? JAKE The guy has a thing for nuns... in diapers. What do you care? You shouldn't have any knowledge about it anyway. The important thing is that I made him go away.
riggan		Right. That's great. JAKE Yeah, it's fantastic. One problem. We don't have an actor. And if we cancel the first preview the press will smell the blood. We can't afford to lose any more money. At all.
riggan		What do you want me to do?
jake		We pay an understudy, let's use the understudy.
riggan		No.
jake		No? Riggan, listen to me. Our dream actor is not going to knock on that door and say: "Hey fellas, when do we start?"
leslie		Can I talk to you for a second?
riggan		Yeah. What's up?
leslie		Did you find another actor?
riggan		No.
leslie		Okay. Well... Mike's available.
riggan		He is? JAKE Mike who?
riggan		I thought he was doing--
leslie		He was. He quit. Or got fired. JAKE Mike who?
riggan		Which one? Quit or fired?
leslie		With Mike it's usually both.
jake		Mike Fucking Who?
leslie		Shiner.
jake		Yes!
riggan		Jake... JAKE Yes! How do you know Mike Shiner?
leslie		We share a vagina.
riggan		You think he'd want to do it?
leslie		Yeah.
jake		How do you know?
leslie		Because he said he'd want to do it.
jake		Yes!
riggan		Jake. Hang on a minute. JAKE  Ask me if he sells tickets.
riggan		Does he sell tickets?
jake		A shitload of tickets. Now ask me if the critics like him?
riggan		Do they like him?
jake		They want to spooge on him.
riggan		 Hey.
jake		Leslie...
leslie		Right on his face.
jake		Everything for a reason, right? RIGGAN You think he'll be able to come tonight?
lesley		I can call him and find out.
jake		I'll call his agent.
jake		Annie, turn the work lights on and get me a fresh copy of the script. We're gonna have a "put in" tonight.
annie		Who? JAKE You'll find out...
riggan		Thanks for coming on such short notice, Mike. I appreciate it.
mike		Hey. This is what we do.  So, you wrote this adaptation?
riggan		I did.
mike		And you're directing the adaptation and starring...
riggan		I am.
mike		Ambitious.
riggan		Thank you.
mike		Why don't we do a bit of it?
riggan		Hey, I wasn't expecting you to-- MIKE First preview is tomorrow, right?
riggan		Yeah, but you can go on with the script until you feel comfortable--
mike		Let's just do some of it.
riggan		Take a look at page twenty--
mike		Yeah. I don't need that.
riggan		What?
mike		I don't need the script. Just give me a cue.
riggan		What are you talking about?
mike		Feed me a line.
riggan		I don't-- What? 
mike		Feed. Me. A line.
riggan		"I'm the wrong person to ask. I didn't know the man. I've only heard his name mentioned in passing. I wouldn't know. You'd have to know the particulars. But I think what you're saying is that love is absolute."
mike		 Well, you don't try to kill people.
riggan		How do you know the lines?
mike		I have a thing, a whatever, a gift.  Come on, I helped Lesley get off book. Hey, give me that cue again.
riggan		"I'm the wrong person to ask. I didn't know the man. I've only heard his name mentioned in passing. I wouldn't know. You'd have to know the particulars. But I think what you're saying is--" MIKE Okay, can I-- Do you mind if I--
riggan		No, go ahead.
mike		Follow me. He says, "I'm the wrong person to ask." What's his intention? Is he fed up with the topic? Deflecting? Guilt about his wife maybe? Then four sentences all say the same thing... "I didn't even know the man."  "I've only heard his name mentioned in passing." "I wouldn't know." "You'd have to know the particulars." First of all, particulars? What are you, my grandmother? But the point is, YOU DON'T KNOW THE GUY, WE FUCKING GET IT. Make it one line. "I didn't even know the guy." Right? ...
riggan		You pretty much know my lines too, huh? MIKE Can we-- Are we doing something here? Come on let's go. Cut it down, give it to me again.
riggan		"I'm the wrong person to ask--"
mike		Oh, right, sorry, you see? "I'm the wrong person to ask?" That's another fuck you. "Don't put me on the spot. Don't make me self conscious about my marriage when my wife is sitting right here..." See? Give it to me. Give me a good fuck you. Come on...
riggan		Okay, let me--
mike		Come on. Give it to me right now. Fuck me. Right now. Right here. Let's do it.
riggan		Okay, yeah...
mike		DO IT! RIGGAN  "Hey. I'm the wrong person to ask, okay? I didn't even know the guy. So what's your point?"
mike		"What's my point?"
riggan		"What's your point? What are you saying? Spit it out. You're saying, what? That love is an absolute?" 
mike		 Well, you don't try to kill people.
riggan		What do you think?
mike		I'm gonna take that as a yes.  And you are...?
riggan		That's my daughter, Sam.
mike		Right. Yeah. I can see it around the...  And your job is...?
riggan		She's my assistant. MIKE Your assistant...  And can you speak?
sam		Yup. I can even 'sit', 'stay' or 'roll over' if you have any treats.
riggan		Welcome aboard, Mike.
mike		 Thank you, Captain.
mike		I'm Mike Shiner, by the way.
sam		I know who you are.  I saw you in 'Hothouse' at the Geffen. It was... great.
mike		That ass is great.
sam		Dude. Seriously?
mike		This is the theatre, honey. Don't be so self-conscious.
larry		Oh, thank the Lord and pass the biscuits! I finally have an actor to dress. Hello, Mr. Shiner.
mike		How're you doing, Larry?
larry		Better, now that you're here. Take off your clothes.
mike		You gonna stand there?
sam		 This is the theatre, honey. Don't be so self-conscious. Larry searches for a few costume pieces.
larry		Okay. I'm gonna have to start from scratch, with less than twenty-four hours... Let's see if these--
mike		At home, under the bed, I think.
larry		Okay. Everything is too small.
sam		Yeah, you're not kidding.
larry		Or pubic hair, I imagine.  And underwear...
lesley		 What the hell are you doing? MIKE Waiting for Larry to finish.
larry		I'm finished.
mike		Okay, well, then I'm just standing here with my balls out.
lesley		Get dressed. Riggan's daughter is hanging around, and I don't need her to walk in here and--
mike		Leslie...
lesley		No, Mike. You haven't seen her. She's always hanging around, just-- I don't-- Watching everyone. It's creepy. It's--
mike		Les...
lesley		I don't know if the drugs fried her brain or what, but I don't need her running to her father saying you showed her your junk.
mike		Okay, then we should probably get her out of here.
lesley		Oh, God. Really?
mike		Hey, Sammy...
sam		It's Sam.
lesley		Fuck.
sam		 It's cool. He's a handful, huh?
mike		To be fair, you make it really easy.
lesley		What the hell was she doing here?
mike		She brought me.
lesley		And stayed??? MIKE I know, right? She's a little--
lesley		Look at me, Mike. This is Broadway. I'm here. Finally. And I'm begging you, if you love me, please, do me a favor... don't fuck it up.
mike		 Come here.
larry		I'm gonna need to go shopping again.
jake		Fucking sew something, you old fuck!
riggan		I don't care. Give him what he wants. JAKE His agent is asking for almost four times what we were paying--
riggan		Then go into the reserve.
jake		The reserve is gone. You spent it on the fog. And those fake trees... 
riggan		It's a dream sequence, it--
jake		And three union midgets that dance around like--
riggan		You're not supposed to call them midgets-- JAKE The reserve is gone!
riggan		Listen to me, you didn't see what I just saw. But you will, at the preview tomorrow. Look, get the contract done. I'll get the money.
laura		 Hey, is it true? Shiner?
riggan		He's in.
laura		Holy shit! When can I meet him?
riggan		He's in a fitting with Larry. Lesley comes down the hallway.
lesley		I'm going to Starbucks. You guys want anything?
riggan		I'm fine. How's Mike?
lesley		Did you talk to your daughter?
riggan		No. 
lesley		He's great.
laura		 Honey, your tits look like fucking anjou pears in that top!
lesley		 Okay, well I'm gonna-- Thank you.
laura		And that ass. Like two eggs in a hanky!
laura		Okay, I was going to tell you this over dinner, but everything-- I have some news too. RIGGAN Good or bad? Cause right now--
laura		 I think it's happening this time.
riggan		It's good. It's great. She smiles, her eyes filled with emotion. Riggan smiles back, and nods absently.
laura		Say something else...
riggan		 You're pretty sure it's mine?
laura		 Well, let's see. There's you. Jake. That masseuse wore a condom so... Yes, it's yours... idiot.
riggan		Yeah.
laura		Me too. Laura moves slightly away from him and suddenly slaps him across the face. Riggan looks at her, confused.
riggan		What--?
laura		You're not funny.
mike		The maniac shot himself right in front of us. I rode with him in the ambulance to the hospital.
lesley		I'll never get that image out of my head. Right before he did it, his eyes-- they were so sad... lonely.
laura		Did you have to treat him?
mike		I didn't have to. But I did.  He was in bad shape. His head swelled up to like twice the size of a normal head. I'd never seen anything like it. And I swear to God, I hope I never do again.
annie		He's incredible. I think he's drinking real gin.
riggan		What?
mike		Ask Nick what real love is. He'll agree with me. You watch.
lesley		Why don't we just head to the restaurant? LAURA Don't get him started, Mel. You haven't seen how he's been lately. He's been depressed. I'm worried about him. He's been--
riggan		Been what?  And it ought to make us ashamed when we talk like we know what we're talking about when we talk about love.
laura		Nick, for God's sake. Are you getting drunk?
riggan		 I don't have to be drunk to say what I think.
mike		Nobody's drunk. We're just having a few drinks.
lesley		You've had more than a few.
riggan		What are you, counting?
laura		Don't you talk to her like that. Don't talk like a drunk if you're not--
riggan		 Like I was saying... There's this old couple, had a car wreck out on the interstate. Some drunk kid plowed his dad's pick up into their camper.
mike		I'm tired of this shit.
riggan		It was killing the old bastard...
mike		Did you just give me water?
riggan		Come on, Mike.
mike		Come on what?
riggan		Take it easy. You're drunk. MIKE Of course I'm drunk! I'm supposed to be drunk! This is Carver, man! The guy lost a piece of liver every time he wrote a page! If I'm supposed to drink gin then bring me fuckin gin! I mean, you fucked the time period! You took all the good lines for yourself! At least let me--
laura		Where's he going?
lesley		 Mike, cut it out.
mike		Look at this. It's all fake.  The milk is fake. The butter is fake.
riggan		Get Mike out of here.
annie		How do you want me to do that?
riggan		I want him gone.
jake		No.
riggan		What?
jake		We can't do that.
riggan		What are you-- Of course we can do that. It's our show.
jake		Riggan, listen to me--
riggan		No. You listen to me. Get him the fuck out of my play. Did you see him out there?
jake		It was a preview! Nobody gives a shit about previews. Nothing matters until that old bat from the New York Times is sitting in that audience on opening night.
riggan		We're getting rid of him. I'm not going to stand up on that stage and--
jake		Shut up! Just shut up for once and listen to me. As soon as we announced he was taking over, the advance doubled. We can't afford to lose a preview. We can't afford to lose money. We can't afford to lose Mike. This is about being respected, validated, remember? That's what you told me. That's how you got me into this shit. Now, you're the director. Get him under control.  These are not the nineties anymore.
riggan		 Holy Fuck!
mike		 You were good...
riggan		Meet me in front of the theater in 10 minutes.
riggan		I didn't know you were here tonight. SYLVIA That guy's an asshole, huh?
riggan		What are you doing here? SYLVIA Sam and I are going to grab a bite after she's finished with--
riggan		No, I mean here. Now.
sylvia		Well. I know how much this means to you, so--
riggan		I appreciate that.
sylvia		So, how's it going?
riggan		The play?
sylvia		No, you and Sam.
riggan		It's good.  It's the same.
sylvia		Do you talk to her?
riggan		We talk. We-- I don't know, it's been crazy around here.
sylvia		You understand where her head is at right now.
riggan		Of course. SYLVIA She's trying to stay away from everything and everyone that got her into rehab in the first place, but...
riggan		...I know, Sylvia...
sylvia		...But that's all she had. So she's-- RIGGAN I really do get it.
sylvia		I know you're caught up in all this stuff, but--
riggan		Stuff...
sylvia		You know what I mean.  Riggan... You don't have to be a great father right now, you just have to be one.
riggan		Yeah. Suddenly, Laura opens the door and sticks her head in.
laura		 Oh, sorry.
sylvia		So how is that going? Is she and Sam--?
riggan		I don't wanna talk about it. 
sylvia		You're drinking?
riggan		I'm having a beer.
sylvia		Okay... He sits and sips in silence for a moment. Then he begins to take out the wig.
riggan		So, what's going on with you?
sylvia		Me? Nothing. Everything's the same I guess. I'm going back to teaching. RIGGAN I'm thinking about refinancing the Malibu house.
sylvia		Wh-- I'm sorry?
riggan		I'm thinking about--
sylvia		No, I heard you. I just need a second to--  What? For this play?
riggan		 I need the money.
sylvia		Do you have any idea how crazy that sounds?
riggan		What do you want me to say? My health lasted longer than the money... Go figure that out.
sylvia		Riggan...  What's going on?... Look at me.
riggan		I have a chance to do something right. And I have to take it. I have to.
sylvia		It's funny. I was sitting here waiting for you, and all of a sudden I couldn't remember why we broke up. Silence. Then, as if he hasn't heard what she said.
riggan		The last time I flew here from LA, George Clooney was sitting two seats in front of me. With those cuff links, and that... chin. We ended up flying through this really bad storm. The plane started to rattle and shake, and everyone on board was crying... and praying. And I just sat there-- Sat there thinking that when Sam opened that paper it was going to be Clooney's face on the front page. Not mine.  Did you know that Farrah Fawcett died on the same day as Michael Jackson?
sylvia		 You threw a kitchen knife at me...
riggan		I will.
sylvia		You're not Farrah Fawcett, Riggan. She exits. Painful silence... until...
riggan		 Shut up.
riggan		 Leave me alone.
annie		The sun bed is here.
riggan		What does that mean?
annie		It means there's a sun bed out there being delivered to in here.
riggan		Who ordered a sun bed?
annie		Mike. He says it's for his character. Carver's red necks, "people of the land". Part of his process and that shit.
riggan		Let's go. Walk.
mike		Where are we going? RIGGAN To get you some coffee. Have I done anything to disrespect you?
mike		Not yet.
riggan		I have a lot riding on this play. MIKE Is that right?
riggan		People know who I am, and--
mike		Bullshit.
riggan		Mike--
mike		Bullshit. People don't know you. They know the guy in the bird suit. They know the guy who tells those quaint, slightly vomitous stories on Letterman.
riggan		Well, I'm sorry for being popular, but that-- 
mike		 Popular? POPULAR?... Oh God, popularity is just the slutty little cousin of prestige.
riggan		Okay, I don't even know what that--
mike		My reputation is riding on this play. And that's... That is... RIGGAN A lot?
mike		A lot. Exactly. Fuck you. Yes. This doesn't work out for you, you get to go home to your studio pals and jump right back into that cultural genocide you guys are perpetrating. "There's a douchbag born every minute". That was P.T. Barnum's premise when he got rich inventing the circus. And you and your pals know nothing's changed, and whatever toxic shit you make people are still gonna pay to see it. But, after you're gone, I'll still be here. I'll still be making my living on the stage. Baring my soul. Wrestling with emotions, complex emotions.
riggan		Right. Is that what tonight was about then?  Wrestling with "complex emotions"?
mike		Tonight was about making it alive. About making it bleed. This isn't the Warner Brothers lot, Riggan. This is the city, and this is how we do things.
riggan		Where are you going?
mike		They have coffee in here.
mike		 Thanks, Tommy.
riggan		 People were laughing in our faces.
mike		 Tonight they were laughing, tomorrow they'll be... be.. tweeting about us. Fuck `em. Who cares??? These are the people who pay half price to watch us rehearse. Stop fucking caring! RIGGAN We're doing Raymond Carver. This play is a drama. This play is--
mike		You don't know what this play is. These are previews. This is where we find out what the play is.
riggan		That's... MIKE Tabitha Dickinson. Yes. And, believe it or not, the only thing that matters in theater is whether she likes us or not. She does, we run. She doesn't, we're fucked.
riggan		 She does look like she licked a homeless guy's ass.
mike		Do me a favor, don't get your panties in a twist over a preview, alright? And don't tell me how to do my job. Cause, this is my town. And, to be honest, nobody gives a shit about you around here.
husband		 We're sorry to interrupt...
lady		Would you mind terribly if we got a picture? RIGGAN Of course. It's no trouble at all.
lady		 Would you mind?
kid		Who is this guy?
lady		 Come on, Billy. He used to be like Batman.
husband		We really appreciate it. An agitated Mike takes a sip of whiskey.
mike		Are we good here? Cause I'm gonna go.
riggan		See you tomorrow.
mike		Why Raymond Carver? You never told me.
riggan		A long time ago, I did a play back in high school in Michigan. He was in the audience. He sent this backstage after.
mike		"Thank you for an honest performance. Ray Carver." What is this?
mike		He wrote it on a cocktail napkin.
riggan		So...
mike		He was drunk.
tabitha		You headed to Hollywood, Mike?
tabitha		 Good luck with that.
mike		"A man becomes a critic when he can not be an artist, in the same way that a man becomes an informer when he cannot be a soldier." Flaubert, right?
tabitha		He's a Hollywood clown in a Lycra bird suit.
mike		Yeah. And at 8 o'clock tomorrow, he's gonna get on stage and risk everything. What're you gonna be doing?
tabitha		Don't you ever worry that I'll give you a bad review?
mike		Oh, I'm sure you will. If I ever give a bad performance.  Ms. Dickinson.
tabitha		Mr. Shiner.
riggan		What're you still doing here?
sam		 Nothing. I'm-- Nothing. Your costumes are hanging in your room.
riggan		Great...
sam		I got the coconut water you wanted. If you want me to get--
riggan		Hey.
sam		What?
riggan		I'm not sure if I said thank you.
sam		For what?
riggan		All of it. You've been doing a good job. And I've been...
sam		Yeah.
riggan		So, I just wanted to say that--  What is that?
sam		What...?
riggan		That smell. SAM I don't--
riggan		Look at me.
sam		What are you--
riggan		Look at me.
sam		Dad...
riggan		 You have to be shitting me... Where is it?
sam		Could we not do this?
riggan		What is this?
sam		That is chunky peanut butter that happens, by the way, to have Omega--
riggan		This.
sam		Oh. That's pot.
riggan		Sam. SAM Alright, just relax.
riggan		Relax? What the hell are you doing?
sam		Protecting myself from cataracts?
riggan		You can't do this to me!
sam		To you?
riggan		SHUT UP! You know what I'm talking about.
sam		Yeah. You're talking about you. What else is new?
riggan		Don't try to--
sam		What? Make it about me? I wouldn't dream of it.
riggan		Listen to me. I'm trying to do something that's important...
sam		This is not important.
riggan		It's important to me! Alright? Maybe not to you, or your cynical playmates whose sole ambition is to end up going viral and who, by the way, will only be remembered as the generation that finally stopped talking to one another. But to me... To me... This is-- God. This is my career, this is my chance  to do some work that actually means something.
sam		Means something to who? You had a career before the third comic book movie, before people began to forget who was inside the bird costume. You're doing a play based on a book that was written 60 years ago, for a thousand rich, old white people whose only real concern is gonna be where they go to have their cake and coffee when it's over. Nobody gives a shit but you. And let's face it, Dad, it's not for the sake of art. It's because you just want to feel relevant again. Well, there's a whole world out there where people fight to be relevant every day. And you act like it doesn't even exist! Things are happening in a place that you willfully ignore, a place that has already forgotten you. I mean who are you? You hate bloggers. You make fun of twitter. You don't even have a Facebook page. You're the one who doesn't exist. You're doing this because you're scared to death, like the rest of us, that you don't matter. And you know what? You're right. You don't. It's not important. You're not important. Get used to it.
laura		 In the days before Nick's depression really started to eat away at him, he had no idea I was pregnant. And I never intended on telling him. I guess we make choices in life, and we choose to live with them. Or not. I didn't want that baby...
mike		 Hey, Les...
lesley		 What? MIKE I'm hard.
lesley		No, you're not. It's just that sometimes you don't consider other people's feelings.
mike		No. I'm hard. Feel.
lesley		Oh, you gotta be kidding.
mike		Let's really do this. Let's fuck.
lesley		Are you crazy? No.
mike		I'm Mel. Not Mike. Mel. A knock on a door.
lesley		Ed!
riggan		 Why? I need you to tell me why. I lived for you. I worshipped you...
mike		Listen Ed, I know this is hard but-- More laughter. Riggan is disturbed, but he continues...
riggan		 Fuck you. Shut up. Fuck you.
lesley		Eddie! Please!
riggan		What's wrong with me? Why do I end up having to beg people to love me?
lesley		Ed. Eddie. Please... Give me the gun. She begins to cry. Her performance is beautiful.
riggan		I just wanted to be what you wanted.  Now I spend every fucking minute praying to be someone else. Someone I'm not. Anyone...
mike		Put down the gun, Ed. She just doesn't love you anymore.
riggan		 You don't, do you?
lesley		 No...
riggan		And you never will...
lesley		I'm sorry.
riggan		 I don't exist. I'm not even here. I don't exist. None of this matters.
mike		Just, keep your voice down...
lesley		 ...and now you try to fuck me in front of eight hundred strangers???
mike		What do you want from me? I have to feel it. You know that. I told you that from the--
lesley		Oh, fuck you... Music begins and the curtain rises. The audience applauds as Lesley and Mike stride onto the stage and take their bows, smiles plastered on their faces.
mike		...I was in the moment...
lesley		I told you to stop. You fucking animal. MIKE But... You were incredible.
lesley		What is wrong with you?
mike		Listen I'm sorry, alright, I--
lesley		I want your shit out of the apartment.
mike		Can we--
lesley		No we can't. Maybe up here you're Mr. Truth, Mike. But in the real world, where it counts, you're a fraud. How's that for truth? You... dick.
laura		What's going on?
lesley		He's an asshole.
laura		What did he do now? LESLEY Oh, nothing. He just tried to fuck me in front of a full house.
laura		Oh, my God...
lesley		Right? LAURA That's kind of hot.
lesley		Why don't I have any self-respect?
laura		You're an actress, honey.
laura		 Hey. You made it.
lesley		I did?
laura		Sadly, it was with Mike Shiner, on a fake motel bed, in front of--
lesley		 Shut. Up. Riggan steps into the doorway and sees Laura hugging Lesley.
riggan		Is she okay?
laura		She's gonna be fine.
lesley		Okay.
riggan		Okay.
lesley		That was very sweet.
laura		Yeah. Laura is suddenly teary.
lesley		What's wrong?
laura		 Nothing. Two years, he's never said anything like that to me.
lesley		 Hey. You're smart. And beautiful. And talented. And I'm lucky to have you. Okay?
laura		We're gross.
lesley		We are. Laura smiles and caresses Lesley's hand. They look at each other. Then Laura leans forward, close to Lesley's face...
laura		Nothing. Laura kisses Lesley tenderly on the lips. Lesley seems confused. A few seconds of silence. Then...
lesley		Do it again.
mike		 Can we talk about this like two--
lesley		FUCK YOU!!!
mike		Okay, well, you're not ready. Mike points the prop gun at her, pretends to fire and...
mike		 You look like a seven year old when you're holding it. I'm not threatened by it at all.
mike		I don't think it's high enough.
mike		So, what are you doing up here?
sam		 Adrenaline. Just came out of rehab. Closest I get to a drug.
mike		You were in rehab?
sam		 Yeah.
mike		Cool.
sam		It wasn't all Dr. Drew or anything, but that dude from American Pie was there. A VOICE  Juuump!
sam		 Eat me!
a voice		Okay. Jump on my face! SAM  I love this city.
mike		Yeah.
sam		 Why do you act like a dick all the time? Do you just do it to antagonize people?
mike		Maybe...
sam		You really don't give a shit if people like you or not...
mike		Not really.
sam		 God, that's cool.
mike		Is it...?
sam		Hey.  Hey...
mike		What?
sam		Let's play a game. MIKE A game?
sam		Yeah.
mike		What are you, eight? SAM What are you, seventy-eight? Truth or dare...?
mike		You gotta be--
sam		Truth or dare?
mike		Truth.
sam		The first time we met, you made a comment about my ass. Why'd you do it?
mike		Because you have a great ass, and I noticed it. So, I said it.  Truth or dare?
sam		Dare.
mike		Really...
sam		Uh-huh.
mike		 There's a bald guy about to walk by down there. Spit on his head.
sam		No!
mike		You said dare.
sam		Truth.
mike		Too late.
sam		Truth or dare?
mike		Truth.
sam		You're boring. MIKE Truth.
sam		 Do you want to fool around with me?
mike		No.
sam		 Really? Why not?
mike		That's a second question.
sam		It's a second part.
sam		That didn't seem to be a problem for you on stage. MIKE Nothing's a problem for me on stage.
sam		I wanna ask another question...
mike		You just asked--
sam		One more.
mike		Go 'head.
sam		If you weren't afraid. What would you want to do to me?
sam		...That's sweet...
mike		...And stick them in my skull, and then look out at this street and see it the way I saw it when I was your age.
sam		G'night, Mike.
riggan		What now? Laura lays the Arts section of the New York Times down in front of Riggan.
laura		Don't kill the messenger.
riggan		Shut up.
laura		 I didn't say anything.
riggan		Fuck. This is it?  This can't be it. LAURA Page twelve.
riggan		 Where's the rest of it?
laura		There is no rest of it.
riggan		They didn't use the photo I sent them.
laura		What photo?
riggan		The one you liked. The one you said I look like a young Jack Nicholson.
laura		 Don't worry about it. Someone'll be using that to pick up dog shit tomorrow.
riggan		How can you be so calm about this?
laura		What are my other choices?
riggan		Aren't you scared at all?
laura		About what?
riggan		About being humiliated out there.
laura		It won't be the first time I've been humiliated.
riggan		I bet it won't.
laura		You're an asshole. She charges to the door and is about to leave when she turns back to Riggan...
mike		What the fuck is going on!
riggan		Get up!
mike		Back away.
riggan		Get up. Riggan slaps Mike on the arm.
mike		Ow, fuck that hurts!
riggan		So, Carver is the reason you became an actor? MIKE What?
riggan		This is my play! I did the work. I raised the money. I arrange the press.
mike		They called me for an interview. I said-- I don't know, I said the first thing that came to mind. Jesus, we got the cover of the Arts section!
riggan		You said the first-- Fuck the Arts section. The first thing that came to mind? Right. Cause that's you. Mr. Natural. Mr. Fuck the scene, just stare at my massive hard-on. Because that's the truth of the moment. MIKE You think it looked massive?
riggan		Shut up. Shut the fuck up. You don't get hard on my stage unless I tell you to.
mike		Your stage? This stage belonged to a lot of great actor's, pal. But you are not one of them.
riggan		So, you wrote your own lines?
mike		Ow. Fuck. Yes I did.
riggan		You changed a few words, and mumbled a little, you self absorbed prick.
mike		Look who's talking...
riggan		Let me tell you something, you spiteful nobody piece of shit. MIKE Nobody? My hard-on has already fifty thousand views on youtube.
riggan		Fifty thousand views? A cat playing with a dildo has more than that.
mike		I don't care.
riggan		Yes you do. 
mike		 Ouch. Fuuuuuck. Cut the shit! Riggan corners Mike against the wall.
riggan		You said in the interview that your father was a drunk, like Carver. Is that true Mike? Is it really true?
mike		Jesus, Riggan. I'm really sorry. I didn't-- That's fucking horrible...
riggan		 I can pretend too, you little dick!
mike		You're crazy...
riggan		You have no idea what I'm capable of. You understand me? Riggan pulls the paper out of his back pocket.
mike		 Don't you want to go put on your tights and your--
riggan		 Breathing in, I feel my rage. Breathing out, I embrace my mental formations.
riggan		 Breathing in, I am calm. Breathing out, I ignore my mental formations. This is a mental formation. This is a mental form--
riggan		 Leave me alone.
riggan		I was not happy.
birdman		...Ignorant but charming. Now you are a tiny bitter cocksucker.
riggan		Shut up! Stop whining! I was miserable!
riggan		Fuck you!
riggan		And billions of flies eat shit everyday! So what? Does that make it good?  I'm fucking disappearing! I'm the answer to a fucking trivial pursuit question.
riggan		Stop saying 'we'! There is no 'we'. I am not you. I'm Riggan fucking Thomson. BIRDMAN  No. You're Birdman. Because without me, all that's left is "you". A sad, selfish, mediocre actor, grasping--
riggan		Fuck you! Fuck you!
jake		Um... Well. Two hours to curtain. Why don't you rest a little bit?
riggan		Yeah. Sure.
jake		Last preview, buddy. We're almost there.
riggan		Okay.
jake		How ya doin?
riggan		Good. Great. JAKE Good. That's good.  The, uh, money came through. I just have to transfer it to the account.
riggan		Oh, that's terrific...
jake		Okay. Well, I'm gonna do that.  You know I'm proud of you, right? This took balls. And you did it.
riggan		I can't do this anymore, Jake.
jake		What?
riggan		I think I'm gonna cancel the preview. I'm exhausted.
jake		It's a joke, right?  Good one, Riggan.
riggan		I'm starting to believe that this is not for me. The applause is... lukewarm. I think they're laughing at me.
jake		What are you--? Listen. There's a three block line of people waiting to see you. We are sold out. It's a full house.
riggan		Really?
jake		Yes. And the French embassador is coming. And the prince of Saudi Arabia, with one of his wives. And... I wasn't going to tell you this, but-- Martin Scorsese. He's casting for his new film. But don't tell anyone, okay? This is between you and me. RIGGAN Okay. I'll be ready.
lesley		How is he?
jake		He'll be okay.
lesley		Poor creature.
laura		Is it true? Scorsese? JAKE Yes. And the new Pope too. 
laura		You're an asshole, Jake.
jake		I'm the one keeping this boat afloat.
lesley		So there is no line of people out there?
jake		I don't know. Now go and get ready. That's your job.  I'll better invest in a taco truck, or a strip joint near the airport.
lesley		Are you okay?
riggan		 Yeah, I-- This is nothing. Shaving. He cleans his hand against his trousers.
lesley		I just want to say I'm sorry.
riggan		For what?
lesley		I knew what Mike was capable of, and I brought him in, anyway.
riggan		You did good.
lesley		Tomorrow's my first opening night on Broadway.
riggan		Mine too.
lesley		And I want you to know that, whatever happens, I'll always be grateful to you for that.
riggan		Me too. It's going to be great. Full house.
mike		For fuck's sake, just jump already.
mike		I didn't. I was just hoping.
sam		Where's Lesley?
mike		Moving on.
sam		Smart girl...
mike		I appreciate that. A beat.
sam		Ready for the last preview?  Who did that to you?
mike		What's the worst thing he ever did to you?
mike		That was--?
sam		No. That was-- Who gives a shit. It was the way he tried to make up for it by constantly trying to convince me I was special.  What about you?
mike		My dad?
sam		Yeah.
mike		He pretended I was his son.
sam		So, what happens now?
mike		I have no idea... SAM Yeah...
mike		He was right, though.
sam		About what?
mike		About your being special. You're hanging around here trying to make yourself  invisible behind that fragile little fuck up routine. But you can't. You're anything but invisible. You're big. And you're sort of this really great mess, a candle burning at both ends, and no amount of booze or pills is gonna hide that.
sam		It's a good thing you're an actor and not a writer cause that little speech was just like, Oprah... Hallmark... R. Kelly bad. She kisses him lightly one more time and then walks away. When she gets to the door she stops and leans on the frame.
mike		Truth.
sam		No.
mike		Truth.
sam		No. Truth or dare?
mike		Do you have any idea where you're going?
sam		Absolutely not.
mike		What now...?
sam		How do you do it? MIKE What?
sam		How do you go out there and pretend to be someone else in front of all those people?
mike		I don't pretend. Not out there. Just about every place else, but never out there.
sam		Good to know.
mike		What are we doing here?
sam		What do you mean?
mike		I mean, what are we doing here?
sam		Adrenaline... They kiss. The camera begins to drift down toward the stage...
lesley		 Perfect. And terrible.
riggan		 Yeah. So I guess what we have to ask ourselves is... What do we talk about when we talk about love?
lesley		Mel and I have been together five years, been married for four. But it was Ed who taught me something no one else could... He taught me what it felt like to really feel loved. And the terrible thing is that if something happened to Mel or myself, if something happened to either one of us tomorrow, I think the other one would grieve for a while, you know, but then would go  out and love again, have someone else soon enough. All this-- All of this love we're talking about... it would just be a memory. Maybe not even a memory. Am I wrong? I mean, I don't know anything. And I'm the first one to admit it.
dresser		That was amazing!
laura		 It's actually going well.
riggan		Yeah.  Hey. I think we have to talk.
laura		 No. We don't.
riggan		Right.  We will eventually, though, `cause that's the only way I get to say I'm sorry. I really am.
laura		We could've made good parents.
riggan		Horrible. We would've been just--
laura		Awful. Would have raised, like...
riggan		...a serial killer...
laura		...or Justin Bieber.  I'm not really the housewife type anyway. I thought I could be a mom. My body seems to disagree.
stage hand		You need a light?
riggan		Breathing in, I calm myself. Breathing out, I ease myself.
tourist		Hey, aren't you...?
riggan		I'm sorry. I can't really--
tourist		Riggan Thompson! Holy Shit! Let me get an autograph.
tourist		Dude! You fuckin' rock!
lady		Can we take one picture?
riggan		Are you kidding me?
lady		 Get next to him!
riggan		Give me a fucking break, lady.
crowd		Bird-man! Bird-man! Bird-man!
riggan		Jesus Christ! What're you doing here?
ralph		Waiting for Jake. This is Mr. Roth, my attorney.
riggan		I have a play to do. 
ralph		I'm going to ruin you!
old usher		I'm sorry sir, you're going to have--
riggan		Knock knock knock! Terri! Terri!
lesley		Ed! What are you doing here?
riggan		Why? I need you to tell me why. I lived for you-- I worshipped you...
mike		Listen Ed, I know this is hard but--
riggan		Fuck you. Shut up. Fuck you.
lesley		Eddie! Please!
riggan		What's wrong with me? Why do I end up having to beg people to love me?
lesley		Ed. Eddie. Please... Give me the gun.
jake		Yeah.  What?... No no no no no no no. Wait there. I'm coming out in--
jake		No. Wait. Wait for me. I'll be there in a second.  Wait. Don't hang up. Mr. Roth, we can discuss-- Hello?... Hello?...
sam		Dad...?
riggan		 Hey. How ya doin'?
sam		Are you okay?
riggan		Why?
sam		I don't know. You seem--
riggan		 You want some?
sam		I'm good. RIGGAN Great. Great.
sam		So. Opening night, tomorrow.
riggan		Yeah.
sam		That's exciting, huh?
riggan		Yeah. Well... I don't know. The previews have been a train wreck. We haven't been able to get through a performance without a raging fire... or a raging hard-on. I'm not really sleeping, you know, at all. And I'm pretty much broke. Oh, and also, this play feels like a miniature, deformed version of myself that keeps following me around, hitting me in the balls with a tiny hammer.  Sorry, what was your question?
riggan		What are you doing? Some homework?
sam		No. I don't-- When I was in rehab, they made us do this.
riggan		Really... SAM Yeah. These dashes, represent the six billion years the planet has existed. Each dash represents 100 years.
riggan		 I was a shitty father, wasn't I?
sam		No. You were a--  You were fine. He stops chewing and stares out.
riggan		Fine... You're right. I am just "fine". Adorably mediocre.
sam		Dad!
riggan		What? 
sam		 It's okay. You just destroyed the entire human race in one blow.
riggan		Really? What does that mean?
sam		350,000 views in less than an hour. Believe it or not, this is power.
riggan		It's for you.
sam		 Are you...?
riggan		Go.
bartender		You got it.
riggan		 I got it. She's a friend of mine.
tabitha		I don't care.
riggan		I'm just saying, when you come tomorrow night, I want you--
tabitha		It doesn't matter.
riggan		What are you--
tabitha		I'm going to destroy your play.
riggan		You haven't even seen it. I don't-- Did I do something to offend you?
tabitha		As a matter of fact you did. You took up space in a theater which otherwise might have been used on something worthwhile. RIGGAN But you don't even know if it's--
tabitha		That's true. I haven't read a word of it, or even seen a preview, but after the opening tomorrow I'm going to turn in the worst review anybody has ever read. And I'm going to close your play. Would you like to know why? Because I hate you. And everyone you represent. Entitled. Spoiled. Selfish. Children. Blissfully untrained, unversed and unprepared to even attempt real art. Handing each other awards for cartoons and  pornography. Measuring your worth in weekends. Well, this is the theater, and you don't get to come in here and pretend you can write, direct and act in your own propaganda piece without going through me first. So, break a leg.
riggan		What has to happen in someone's life, for them to end up becoming a critic?
riggan		No you won't. Let's read your review!  Epistemological vertigo?
tabitha		Are you finished?
riggan		 ...wrinkly, tight ass.
tabitha		You think you're an actor?  Eddie! Eddie the waiter approaches the table.
waiter		Yeah, Mrs. Dickinson?
tabitha		Give us some Shakespeare.
waiter		No problem. Got anything in mind?
tabitha		The Scottish Play. Act five...
waiter		Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to day, To the last syllable of recorded time; And all our yesterdays have lighted fools. The way to dusty death...
tabitha		Thank you, Eddie.
waiter		You got it. TABITHA  You're no actor. You're a celebrity. Let's be clear on that.
birdman		You spent your whole life building a reputation and a bank account, and now they're both blown. So what? Fuck it. We make a come back. Something huge. Take what belongs to us. Take back the spotlight. Magazine covers and billboards. Happy meals with Birdman dolls. Remember that? That's who you are. That's who we are!
birdman		Do you hear me? You can do anything! You're an icon! 
birdman		 Look at them. They love that shit! They starve for blood and action, not this artsy-fartsy-philosophical bullshit!
birdman		And when you shout "whooaa!"...  ...it explodes in the eardrum of millions. Your power is unlimited.
birdman		There you go, you mother fucker! See? Gravity doesn't even apply to you.
guy		Dude, what are you doing?
lady		Is this for real, or you're shooting a film?
riggan		A film.
lady		Oh, you people are full of shit.
riggan		One more time...
good neighbor		Hi, sir. Can I help you? You should be careful.
riggan		Sorry. Can't talk. I'm late.  Music.
good neighbor		Are you alright? Do you want me to call someone? Do you know where to go?
riggan		Yes. I know where to go. 
usher		Mr. Thomson. I think you forgot to--
riggan		Stop the music.
man		 It's really good.
woman		I know. I can't believe it...
sylvia		Wow, that is just NASCAR hot.
riggan		Come here. Sit next to me.
riggan		I'm fine. Sit.
sylvia		Look at all these roses.
riggan		I am calm. I'm great. I spent most of the day observing how beautifully this pile of dirty clothes was lit by the warm afternoon sun.  So beautiful. Sylvia, teasing him, closes her eyes and imitates Riggan's meditation posture.
sylvia		 Oh yes. God is those purplish light dots I see between my eyes and my eyelids.
riggan		You know? I have this voice that talks to me and tells me the truth. It's comforting, and scary.
sylvia		I'm going to pretend I didn't hear you say that.
riggan		Okay.
sylvia		 You wouldn't believe the crowd outside. They said, some people paid up to 500 dollars a ticket.
sylvia		Sure.
riggan		Do you remember our last anniversary party?
sylvia		Seriously? You're going to ruin a nice moment with that?
riggan		Do you remember the party?
sylvia		The party where you fucked Janet Rossbach in our bed? Yeah, it rings a bell.
riggan		Yeah, well. Let's skip over that part for a minute. SYLVIA Gladly.
riggan		After you threw the guests out of the house, and the furniture out of the window. You locked yourself in the bathroom.
sylvia		I remember. Why are we--
riggan		I drove down to Malibu. I sat on the beach for a while. Just... staring out at the ocean.
sylvia		Riggan...
riggan		Until I walked straight into the water and tried to drown myself.
sylvia		You said it was a sunburn.
riggan		 And you believed me.
sylvia		To be honest, I didn't give a shit.
riggan		I love you. And I love Sam.
sylvia		I know.
riggan		No, I don't.
sylvia		Listen, she's just--
riggan		No, I understand. She needed a father and she got one shamefully successful youtube video. Pretty pathetic.
sylvia		 Shhh... There are more pathetic things than that. That mustache, for example. She kisses him.
sylvia		Riggan...
riggan		You should get back to your seat. You don't want to miss what's next.
technician		Break a leg, Mr. Thomson.
riggan		 I don't need it.
lesley		Ed! What are you doing here?
riggan		 Why? I need you to tell me why. I lived for you-- I worshipped you... MIKE Listen Ed, I know this is hard but--
riggan		What's wrong with me? Why do I end up having to beg people to love me?
lesley		Ed. Eddie. Please... Give me the gun.
riggan		I just wanted to be what you wanted.  Now I spend every fucking minute praying to be someone else. Someone I'm not. Anyone...
mike		Put down the gun, Ed. She just doesn't love you anymore.
riggan		 You don't, do you?
lesley		 No...
riggan		And you never will...
lesley		I'm sorry.
riggan		I don't exist. I'm not even here. I don't exist. None of this matters.
man		Bravo!
host		What do we talk about when we talk about Riggan Thomson? When we come back, more on the actor who two nights ago shot himself during the opening performance of his new Broadway play...
jake		Is he...?
sylvia		He's awake.
jake		 I thought I lost you, buddy. Thank god you're a horrible shot! What the hell happened? I was watching you up on that stage, and all of a sudden you get that goofy look in your eye, and you were just like--
sylvia		What the hell are you laughing about? He tried to-- What is wrong with you? 
jake		I'm happy, okay? He's alive. My best friend is alive. And he is the man of the hour!
riggan		What is that?
jake		You did it.
sylvia		 You have to be shitting me... She wrote a review?
sylvia		I don't believe this...
jake		Read it out loud!
sam		"Thompson has unwittingly given birth to a new form that can only be described as supra-realism. Blood was spilled both literally and metaphorically by artist and audience alike. Red blood. The blood that has been sorely missing from the veins of the American theatre..."  You're happy about this?
jake		Happy? I'm fucking euphoric. This is the-- This is the kind of review that turns someone into a living legend.
sylvia		He tried to-- He shot the nose off his face!
jake		He's got a new nose! And if he doesn't like that one, we'll get him another one. We can use Meg Ryan's guy. Who gives a shit? Turn on the tv. There are people praying for him all over the country. They're lighting candles in Central Park. He did it.  You did it! The play's gonna run forever. It's gonna open in London, in Paris... The studios will call us again. We'll get book offers.
sylvia		How do you know all that? You can see the future? JAKE  Yes.
sylvia		Did you see that coming? You're so full of shit, Jake.
jake		Why aren't you saying anything? This is what you wanted wasn't it?  Riggan, this is what you wanted. RIGGAN It's what I wanted.
jake		Okay, listen. You're gonna get hit with a "brandishing a weapon" charge. If anybody talks to you, it was an accident and we're doing an internal invest--
sylvia		Is that what it was? An accident? Riggan just stares at her. His calm, sad eyes peeking through the bandages. After a moment his gaze moves over her shoulder. Sylvia turns and we discover Sam standing in the doorway holding a bouquet of flowers. A bit of awkward silence, and Sylvia decides to leave them alone.
sam		Alchemillas.
riggan		I can't smell them.
sam		I'm posting this picture on your Twitter page.
riggan		Very funny...
sam		Set it up today.
riggan		You're joking.
sam		I'm not.
riggan		Let me see the picture.
sam		Absolutely not. You look hideous.
riggan		Thanks a lot.
sam		I'm just kidding. No, I'm not. You look hideous.  You already have 80 thousand followers. In less than a day. And I'm about to scare the shit out of them.
riggan		Let me see. SAM No. Done.
riggan		I do look hideous.
sam		Dad?
smash to black         *		FOXSEARCHLIGHT.COM/AWARDS Released by Twentieth Century Fox  2014 Twentieth Century Fox
****Dialogues from script :Birds.txt****

melanie		Hello, Mrs. MacGruder, have you ever seen so many gulls?
melanie		What do you suppose it is?
melanie		You said three o'clock.
melanie		Well, this one won't be a chick, will he?
melanie		And he'll talk?
melanie		Yes.
melanie		 Well, all right, but...
mitch		I wonder if you could help me.
melanie		What?
mitch		 I said I wonder if you could help me.
melanie		 Yes, what was it you were looking for, sir?
mitch		 Lovebirds.
melanie		Lovebirds, sir?
mitch		Yes. I understand there are different varieties, it that true?
melanie		Well... yes, sir, there are.
mitch		These are for my sister... her birthday you see. As she'll be eleven and... well, frankly, I wouldn't want a pair of birds that were too demonstrative.
melanie		I understand completely, sir.
mitch		As the same time, I wouldn't want birds that were aloof, either.
melanie		 No, of course not.
mitch		Do you have a pair that are just friendly?
melanie		I think so, sir.  Now then, let me see.
mitch		 Aren't these lovebirds?
melanie		No, sir, those are... redbirds.
mitch		The sign says strawberry finches.
mitch		Those are canaries, Miss.  Doesn't this make you feel awful?
melanie		 Doesn't what make me...?
mitch		All these innocent little creatures caged up like this?
melanie		Well, we can't just let them fly around the shop, you know.
mitch		I suppose not. Is there an ornithological reason for keeping them in separate cages?
melanie		Oh, certainly. It's to protect the species.
mitch		I imagine that's very important. Especially during the moulting season.
melanie		Yes, that's a particularly dangerous time.
mitch		Are they moulting now?
melanie		Some of them are.
mitch		How can you tell?
melanie		Well... they get a sort of hangdog expression.
mitch		Yes, I see.  About those lovebirds, Miss...
melanie		Are you sure you wouldn't like to see a canary instead? We have some very nice canaries this week.
mitch		All right.  She smiles back.
mitch		 All right, may I see one, please?
melanie		 Here, birdie. Here, birdie, birdie.
melanie		Oh!  Ohhhhh!
mitch		Shhh! Shhhh!
melanie		There we are!
mitch		 Back into your gilded cage, Melanie Daniels.
melanie		What did you say?
mitch		 I was merely drawing a parallel, Miss Daniels.
melanie		But how... how do you know my name?
melanie		Hey, wait a minute!
melanie		I don't know you.
mitch		Ahhh, but I know you.
melanie		How?
mitch		We met in court.
melanie		We never met in court or anyplace else.
mitch		That's true. I'll rephrase it. I saw you in court.
melanie		When?
mitch		Do you remember one of your practical jokes that resulted in the smashing of a plate glass window?
melanie		I didn't break that window!
mitch		No, but your little prank did. The judge should have put you behind bars!
melanie		What are you? A policeman?
mitch		I simply believe in the law, Miss Daniels, and I'm not too keen on practical jokers.
melanie		What do you call your lovebird story if not a practical...
mitch		Ahhh, but I really do want those birds.
melanie		You knew I didn't work here. You deliberately...
mitch		Right. I recognized you when I came in. I thought you might like to know what it felt like to be on the other end of a gag. What do you think of that, Miss Daniels?
melanie		I think you're a louse.
mitch		I am. 
melanie		And I'm glad you didn't get your lovebirds!
mitch		 See you in court some day.
melanie		 That... that... who was that?
melanie		Have you got a pencil?
melanie		No, you'd better send him. May I use your phone?
melanie		 Do you have any lovebirds?
melanie		How soon?
melanie		Immediately.  Is this the Daily News? Melanie Daniels. Would you get me the city desk, please?
melanie		Now. What time tomorrow morning?
man's voice		Miss...?  She stops, distressed.
man		Is that for Mitch Brenner?
melanie		 Yes.
man		He's not home.
melanie		That's all right.
man		He won't be back until Monday. I mean, if those birds are for him....
melanie		Monday?
man		Yes. I don't think you should leave them in the hall, do you?
melanie		 Well, I...
melanie		Well, where did he go?
man		Bodega Bay. He goes up there every weekend.
melanie		Bodega Bay? Where's that?
man		Up on the coast. About sixty miles north of here.
melanie		Sixty...  Oh.
man		About an hour and a half on the freeway. Or two if you take the coast highway.
melanie		Oh.
man		I'd hold the birds for him, but I'm going away myself. Someone's got to feed them, I suppose.
melanie		 Yes. Yes, someone's got to feed them.
man		 I'm awfully sorry.
melanie		Oh, shut up!
melanie		Good morning.
clerk		 Morning.
melanie		I wonder if you could help me.
clerk		Try my best.
melanie		I'm looking for a man named Mitchell Brenner.
clerk		Yep.
melanie		Do you know him?
clerk		Yep.
melanie		Where does he live?
clerk		Right here. Bodega Bay.
melanie		Yes, but where?
clerk		Right across the bay there.
melanie		Where?
clerk		See where I'm pointing?
melanie		Yes?
melanie		The Brenners? Mr. and Mrs. Brenner?
clerk		Nope, just Lydia and the two kids.
melanie		The two kids?
clerk		Yep. Mitch and the little girl.
melanie		I see. How do I get down there?
clerk		Follow the road straight through town 'til it curves off on the left. That'll take you right around the bay to their front door.
melanie		The front door.  Isn't there a back road I can take?
clerk		Nope. That's the road. Straight through town, stay on your left, right around the bay to the front door.
melanie		You see, I wanted to surprise them.
clerk		Mmmm.
melanie		I didn't want to come right down the road, where they could see me.
clerk		Mmmm.
melanie		It's a surprise, you see.
clerk		Mmmmmm.  'Course, you could get yourself a boat, cut right across the bay with it. The Brenners got a little dock there you could tie up at. If that's what you wanted to do.
melanie		Where would I get a boat?
clerk		Down at the dock by the Tides Restaurant. Ever handled an outboard boat?
melanie		 Of course.
clerk		 D'you want me to order one for you?
melanie		 Thank you.
clerk		What name?
melanie		Daniels.
clerk		Okay.
melanie		I wonder if you could tell me...
clerk		Yep?
melanie		The little girl's name.
clerk		The little Brenner girl?
melanie		Yes.
clerk		Alice, I think.  Harry, what's the little Brenner girl's name?
harry's voice		 What?
clerk		 The little Brenner girl.
harry's voice		 Lois!
clerk		 It's Alice, ain't it?
harry's voice		 No, it's Lois!
clerk		 It's Alice.
melanie		Are you sure?
clerk		Well, I ain't positive, if that's what you mean.
melanie		I need her exact name, you see.
clerk		That case, I tell you what you do. You go straight through town 'til you see a little hotel on your left there. Not the motel, that's the other end of town. This is the hotel. Now you take a right turn there, you got that?
melanie		Yes?
clerk		Near the top of the hill, you'll see the school and right behind it, the church. You head for the school. Now just past the school, you'll see a little house with a red mail box. That's where Annie Hayworth lives, she's the school teacher. You ask her about the little Brenner girl.
melanie		Thank you.
clerk		Yep.  Could save yourself a lot of trouble. Her name's Alice for sure.
melanie		Can I have the boat in about twenty minutes?
melanie		How much for the phone calls?
clerk		 It's nothing.
annie's voice		 Yes? Who is it?
melanie		Me!
annie's voice		Who's me?
melanie		Miss Hayworth?
annie		Yes?
melanie		I'm Melanie Daniels. I'm sorry to bother you, but...
annie		Yes?
melanie		The man at the post office sent me. He said you'd know the name of the little Brenner girl.
annie		Cathy?
melanie		The one who lives in the white house across the bay?
annie		That's the one. Cathy Brenner.
melanie		 They seemed sure it was either Alice or Lois.
annie		Which is why the mail in this town never gets delivered to the right place.  Did you want to see Cathy about something?
melanie		Well... not exactly.
annie		Are you a friend of Mitch's?
melanie		No, not really.
annie		I've been wanting a cigarette for the past twenty minutes, but I couldn't convince myself to stop. This 'tilling of the soil' can get a little compulsive, you know.
melanie		It's a lovely garden.
annie		Thank you. It gives me something to do with my spare time.  Did you plan on staying long?
melanie		No. Just a few hours.
annie		You're leaving after you see Cathy?
melanie		Well... something like that.  I'm sorry. I don't mean to sound so mysterious.
annie		Actually, it's none of my business.
annie		 I'd better get on my way. Thank you very much.
annie		Not at all.
annie		 Did you drive up from San Francisco?
melanie		Yes.
annie		It's a nice drive.  Is that where you met Mitch?
melanie		 Yes.
annie		I guess that's where everyone meets him.
melanie		Now you sound a bit mysterious, Miss Hayworth.
annie		Do I?  Pretty. What are they?
melanie		Lovebirds.
annie		Mmm.  Well, good luck, Miss Daniels.
melanie		Thank you.
mitch		That was the damndest thing I ever saw.
melanie		What made it...
mitch		It deliberately came down at you -- you're bleeding...
mitch		Come on, let's take care of that.
fisherman		What happened, Mitch?
mitch		 A gull hit her.
fisherman		A what?
mitch		Come on, we'd better go up to the restaurant.
mitch		Deke, have you got a first aid kit back there?
deke		 What happened?
mitch		Young woman cut herself.
deke		Shall I call the doctor?
mitch		 I don't think it's that serious. You want to sit up here?
deke		You cut yourself outside, Miss?
mitch		Stop worrying, Deke. She was in a boat.
deke		I had a man trip and fall in the parking lot once, sued me before I could bat an eyelash.
mitch		I don't think Miss Daniels is going to sue anybody.
melanie		What's that?
mitch		Just some peroxide. I want to clean out the cut.
melanie		So you're a lawyer.
mitch		That's right. What are you doing in Bodega Bay?
melanie		Do you practice here?
mitch		No, San Francisco. What are you...?
melanie		What kind of law?
mitch		Criminal.
melanie		Is that why you'd like to see everyone behind bars?
mitch		Not everyone, Miss Daniels.
melanie		Only violators and practical jokers.
melanie		That's right.
melanie		Ouch!
mitch		I'm sorry.  What are you doing up here?
melanie		Didn't you see the lovebirds?
mitch		You came all the way up here to bring me those birds?
melanie		To bring your sister those birds. You said it was her birthday. Besides, I was coming up anyway.
mitch		What for?
melanie		To see a friend of mine.  Will you please be careful?
mitch		I'm sorry.  Who's your friend?
melanie		Why... 
mitch		Yes?
melanie		 Annie. Annie Hayworth.
mitch		Well, well, small world. Annie Hayworth.
melanie		 Yes.
mitch		How do you know Annie?
melanie		 We... we went to school together. College.
mitch		Did you! Imagine that! How long will you be staying?
melanie		Just a few... just a day or two... the weekend.
mitch		I think we'll have to shave the hair. Deke, have you got a razor?
melanie		 Oh, no you don't!
mitch		It's still bleeding a little. Here, let me put this on.
mitch		Bend your head down. This little Band-Aid won't show.
mitch		So you came up to see Annie, huh?
melanie		Yes.
mitch		I don't believe you.  I think you came up to see me.
melanie		Why would I want to see you, of all people?
mitch		 I don't know. But it seems to me you must have gone to a lot of trouble to find out who I was, and where I lived and...
melanie		It was no trouble at all. I simply called my father's paper. Besides, I was coming up here anyway, I already told you...
mitch		 You like me, huh?
melanie		I loathe you. You have no manners. And you're arrogant and conceited and... I wrote you a letter about it, in fact, but I tore it up.
mitch		What did it say?
melanie		None of your business.  Am I still bleeding?
mitch		Can't see a thing.
melanie		I can't say I like your seagulls much, either. I come all the way up here to...
mitch		But you were coming up anyway, remember?
melanie		I was! And all I get for my pains is a... a... a hole in the head!
mitch		 Right next to the one you already had.
melanie		 Look, Mr. Brenner...
lydia		 I thought I saw your car. What are you doing in town?
mitch		 Mother, I'd like you to meet...
lydia		A what?
mitch		 Melanie Daniels. Melanie, my mother.
lydia		How do you do, Miss Daniels?  Acknowledge a what?
mitch		A delivery, Mother. Miss Daniels brought some birds from San Francisco.
lydia		Oh. I see.
mitch		For Cathy. For her birthday. By the way, where is she?
lydia		Across at Brinkmeyer's.
mitch		Miss Daniels is staying for the weekend. In fact, I've already invited her to dinner tonight.
mitch		After all, you did go to the trouble of bringing up those birds.
lydia		You did say birds?
mitch		Yes, lovebirds. We couldn't let you...
lydia		 Lovebirds, I see.
mitch		...get away without thanking you in some small way. After all, you haven't even met Cathy and you are staying for the weekend...
melanie		Yes, but...
mitch		You are, aren't you?
melanie		Certainly, but...
mitch		Then it's settled. What time is dinner, Mother?
lydia		Seven o'clock, same as usual.
mitch		I'll pick you up, Miss Daniels. Where are you staying?
melanie		With... with Annie, of course.
mitch		Of course, how stupid of me. A quarter to seven, will that be all right?
melanie		Annie... Annie may have made other plans. I'll have to see. Besides, I can find my own way.
mitch		You're sure now? You won't hire a boat or anything?
melanie		I'm sure.
mitch		Seven o'clock then.
melanie		Maybe.
mitch		We'll be waiting. How's your head now?
melanie		 It's nothing, Mrs. Brenner. A gull hit me, that's all.
annie		 Did you find her all right?
melanie		Yes, I did.
melanie		I was wondering...
annie		Yes?
melanie		That sign.  Do you think I could have the room for a single night?
annie		Well, I'd really hope to rent it for...
melanie		I would appreciate it. I've tried everywhere in town, and they're all full.
annie		 Where's your bag? In the car?
annie		It's utilitarian, I'll say that for it.
melanie		 I just picked up some things for the night at the general store. You see, I hadn't planned on spending much time here.
annie		Yes, I know. Did something unexpected crop up?
melanie		Yes.  May I use your phone? I'd like to call home.
annie		Why don't you come in then?  I was just about to mix a martini.
annie		 Don't they ever stop migrating?
melanie		 Hi!
cathy		Miss Daniels?
melanie		Yes?
cathy		They're beautiful! They're just what I wanted! Is there a man and a woman? I can't tell which is which.
melanie		Well, I suppose...
mitch		 Hi. Annie had no plans, huh? I'm glad you came. Are you hungry?
melanie		Famished.
mitch		Dinner's just about ready.  We were out back looking at the chickens. Something seems to be wrong with them.
lydia		 There's nothing wrong with those chickens, Mitch. I'm going to call Fred Brinkmeyer right now.
mitch		 Chickens won't eat.
lydia		He sold the feed to me, didn't he?
mitch		Caviat emptor, Mother. Let the buyer beware.
lydia		Whose side are you on?
mitch		I'm simply quoting the law.
lydia		Never mind the law. Cathy, you can start serving the soup.
lydia		This won't take a minute, Miss Dan...  The chicken feed. The three bags I brought.
lydia		Well, it's just no good. The chickens won't eat it. 
lydia		 He got a call from Dan Fawcett a little while ago. His chickens won't eat, either.
cathy		It's what you said, Mom. Mr. Brinkmeyer's feed is no good.
lydia		 You don't think they're getting sick, do you, Mitch?
cathy		I still don't understand how you knew I wanted lovebirds.
melanie		Your brother told me.
lydia		 Then you knew Mitch in San Francisco, is that right?
melanie		No, not exactly.
cathy		Mitch knows lots of people in San Francisco. Of course, they're mostly hoods.
lydia		 Cathy!
cathy		Well, Mom, he's the first to admit it.  He spends half his day in the detention cells at the Hall of Justice.
lydia		 In a democracy, Cathy, everyone is entitled to a fair trial. Your brother's practice...
cathy		Mom, please, I know all the democracy jazz. They're still hoods.  I mean, even twice would be overdoing it, don't you think?
melanie		 Why did he shoot her?
mitch		He was watching a ball game on television.
melanie		What?
mitch		His wife changed the channel.
cathy		Is smoking fun?
melanie		Oh, I suppose so.
cathy		Could I have a puff?
melanie		I don't think your mother would like that.
cathy		 When I grow up, I'm gonna smoke like a chimney! I'll be eleven tomorrow, you know.
melanie		I know.
cathy		Are you coming to my party?
melanie		I don't think so.  I have to get back to San Francisco.
cathy		Don't you like us?
melanie		 Darling, of course I do!
cathy		Don't you like Bodega Bay?
melanie		I don't know yet.
cathy		Mitch likes it very much. He comes up every weekend, you know, even though he has his own apartment in the city. He says San Francisco is just an ant hill at the foot of a bridge.
melanie		 I guess it does get a little hectic at times.
cathy		If you do decide to come, don't say I told you about it. It's supposed to be a surprise party.
cathy		You see, they've got this whole complicated thing figured out where I'm going over to Michele's for the afternoon, and Michele's mother is going to say she has a headache and would I mind very much if she took me home. Then, when we get back here, all of the kids'll jump out!  Won't you come? Won't you please come?
melanie		I don't think so, Cathy.
lydia		She's a charming girl, isn't she, Mitch?
mitch		Yes, very.
lydia		And certainly pretty.
mitch		Yes.
lydia		How long have you known her?
mitch		I told you. We met yesterday.
lydia		In a bird shop.
mitch		Yes.
lydia		She was selling birds.
mitch		No. I only led her into believing I believed she was... Mother, it's really very complicated.
lydia		But she did buy the lovebirds and then brought them all the way...
mitch		Mother, where did you go to law school?
lydia		 She's very rich, isn't she?
mitch		I suppose so. Her father owns a big newspaper in San Francisco.
lydia		You'd think he could manage to keep her name out of print. She's always mentioned in the columns, Mitch.
mitch		I know, Mother.
lydia		She is the one who jumped into that fountain in Rome last summer, isn't she?
mitch		Yes, Mother.
lydia		Perhaps I'm old-fashioned.  I know it was supposed to be very warm there, Mitch, but... well... actually... well, the newspaper said she was naked.
mitch		I know, Mother.
lydia		It's none of my business, of course, but when you bring a girl like that to...
mitch		Mother?
lydia		 Yes?
mitch		I think I can handle Melanie Daniels by myself.
lydia		Well...  So long as you know what you want, Mitch.
mitch		I know exactly what I want, Mother.
mitch		You'll be able to find your way back, won't you?
melanie		Oh, yes.
melanie		Will I be seeing you again?
melanie		San Francisco's a long way from here.
mitch		I'm in San Francisco five days a week. With a lot of time on my hands. I'd like to see you.  Maybe we could go swimming or something. Mother tells me you like to swim.
melanie		How does Mother know what I like to do?
mitch		I guess she and I read the same gossip columns.
melanie		Oh. That. Rome.
mitch		Mmmm. I like to swim. We might get along very...
melanie		In case you're interested, I was pushed into that fountain.
melanie		Without any clothes on?
melanie		With all my clothes on!  The newspaper that ran the story happens to be a rival of my father's paper.  Anything they said...
mitch		You were just a poor, innocent victim of circumstance, huh?
melanie		I'm neither poor nor innocent, but the truth of that particular...
mitch		The truth is you were running around with a pretty wild crowd...
melanie		Yes, but...
mitch		...who didn't much care for propriety or convention or...
melanie		Yes.
mitch		...the opinions of others, and you went right along with them, isn't that the truth?
melanie		Yes, that's the truth. But I was pushed into that fountain, and that's the truth, too.
mitch		Sure. Do you really know Annie Hayworth?
melanie		No.  At least, I didn't until I came up here.
mitch		So you didn't go to school together.
melanie		No.
mitch		And you didn't come up here to see her.
melanie		No.
mitch		You were lying.
melanie		Yes, I was lying.
mitch		Did you really write a letter to me? Or was that a lie, too?
melanie		I wrote the letter.
mitch		What did it say?
melanie		It said, "Dear Mr. Brenner, I think you need those lovebirds, after all. They may help your personality." That's what it said.
mitch		But you tore it up.
melanie		Yes.
mitch		Why?
melanie		Because it seemed stupid and foolish.
mitch		Like jumping into a fountain in Rome!
melanie		I told you what happened in Rome!
mitch		Do you expect me to believe...?
melanie		I don't give a damn what you believe!
mitch		I'd still like to see you.
melanie		Why?
mitch		I think it could be fun.
melanie		That might have been good enough in Rome last summer. But it's not good enough now.
mitch		It is for me.
melanie		But not for me.
mitch		What do you want ?
melanie		 I thought you knew! I want to go through life laughing and beautiful and jumping into fountains naked! Good night!
annie		Miss Daniels? Is that you?
annie		Hi.  Is something wrong? Is that cut beginning to bother you?
melanie		 No, it's not the cut that's bothering me.
annie		 Would you like some brandy?
melanie		If you have some, I'd...
annie		I'll get it, sit down, Miss Daniels. Do you want a sweater or something? A quilt?
melanie		No, thank you.  Won't you call me Melanie?
annie		All right. 
melanie		Thank you.
annie		 It gets a little chilly here at night sometimes. Especially if you're over near the bay.
annie		Well, how'd your evening go?
annie		Did you meet Lydia?
annie		Or would you rather I changed the subject?
melanie		 I think so.
annie		 How do you like our little hamlet?
melanie		I despise it.
annie		 Well, I don't suppose it offers much to the casual visitor. Unless you're thrilled by a collection of shacks on a hillside. It takes a while to get used to.
melanie		Where are you from originally, Annie?
annie		San Francisco.
melanie		How'd you happen to come here?
annie		Oh, someone invited me up for the weekend a long time ago.
annie		Look, I see no reason for being coy about this. It was Mitch Brenner.
annie		I guess you knew that, anyway.
melanie		I suspected as much.
annie		You needn't worry. It's over and done with. A long time ago.
melanie		Annie -- there's nothing between Mitch and me.
annie		Isn't there?  Maybe there isn't. Maybe there's never anything between Mitch and any girl.
melanie		What do you mean?
annie		I think I'll have some of that, too.  And then, one weekend, he asked me up to meet Lydia.
melanie		When was this?
annie		Four years ago. Of course, that was shortly after his father died.  Things may be different now.
melanie		Different?
annie		With Lydia.  Did she seem a trifle distant?
melanie		 A trifle.
annie		Then maybe it isn't different at all. You know, her attitude nearly drove me crazy. I simply couldn't understand it.
annie		When I got back to San Francisco I spent days trying to figure out just what I'd done to displease her.
melanie		And what had you done?
annie		Nothing! I simply existed. So what was the answer? A jealous woman, right? A clinging possessive mother.  Wrong. With all due respect to Oedipus, I don't think that was the case at all.
melanie		Then what was it?
annie		Lydia liked me, you see. That was the strange part of it. In fact, now that I'm no longer a threat, we're very good friends.
melanie		Then why did she object to you?
annie		Because she was afraid.
melanie		Afraid you'd take Mitch?
annie		Afraid I'd give Mitch.
melanie		I don't understand.
annie		Afraid of any woman who'd give Mitch the only thing Lydia can give him -- love.
melanie		Annie, that adds up to a jealous, possessive woman.
annie		No, I don't think so. She's not afraid of losing her son, you see.  She's only afraid of being abandoned.
melanie		Someone ought to tell her she'd be gaining a daughter.
annie		She already has a daughter.
melanie		What about Mitch? Didn't he have anything to say about this?
annie		 I can understand his position. He went through a lot with Lydia after his father died. He didn't want to risk going through it all over again.
melanie		I see.
annie		So it ended. Not immediately, of course. I went back to San Francisco, and I still saw Mitch every now and then... but we both knew it was finished.
melanie		Then what are you doing here in Bodega Bay?
annie		You get straight to the point, don't you?
melanie		I'm sorry. Forgive me.
annie		No, that's all right, I don't mind. I came up here for two reasons. To begin with, I was bored with my job in San Francisco. I was teaching at a private school there... well, you know, you probably went to one yourself.
melanie		I did.
annie		Then you know. Little girls in brown beanies. Deadly. Here I have a life. I'll go into that classroom on Monday morning, and I'll look out at twenty- five upturned little faces, and each of them will be saying, 'Yes, please give me what you have.'  That's the first reason.
melanie		And the second?
annie		 You see, I still like him a hell of a lot. That's rare, I think. I don't want to lose his friendship... ever.
annie		Hello?  Oh, hello. No, no, I wasn't asleep. What is it?  It's Mitch. For you.
annie		He's waiting.
melanie		 Good night, Mitch.
melanie		He wants me to go to Cathy's party tomorrow afternoon.  I said I would.
annie		I'll be going, too, to help out. It should be fun, Melanie.
melanie		It seems so pointless.  My luggage.
annie		Pretty. Did you get that at Brinkmeyer's?
melanie		Do you think I should go?
annie		That's up to you.
melanie		It's really up to Lydia, isn't it?
annie		Never mind Lydia. Do you want to go?
melanie		 Yes.
annie		Then go.
melanie		Thank you, Annie.
annie		 Is someone there?
annie		 Is anyone there?
melanie		 Look.
annie		 Ohhh. Oh, the poor thing. He probably lost his way in the dark.
melanie		But... it isn't dark, Annie.  There's a full moon.
melanie		I really shouldn't have any more. I'm a little tipsy already.
mitch		I'm trying to get you to stay for dinner. We're going to have a lot of roast left over.
melanie		I couldn't possibly. I have to get back.
mitch		 Cheers.
melanie		Cheers.
melanie		What's in this? Nitro-glycerin?
mitch		Why do you have to rush off? What's so important in San Francisco?
melanie		Well... I have to get to work tomorrow morning, for one thing.
mitch		 You have a job?
melanie		 I have several jobs.
mitch		What do you do?
melanie		I do different things on different days.
mitch		Like what?
melanie		 On Mondays and Wednesdays, I work for the Travelers' Aid. At the airport.
mitch		Helping travelers.
melanie		Yes.
melanie		And on Tuesdays, I take a course in General Semantics at Berkeley.  That's not a job, of course. I just take it because...
mitch		What about Thursdays and Fridays?
melanie		On Thursdays I have my meeting and lunch. 
mitch		And Fridays? What do you do then?
melanie		Nothing.  I go to bird shops on Fridays.
mitch		I'm glad you do.
melanie		Do you know what I was doing in that shop?
mitch		What?
melanie		I have an aunt, you see. Aunt Tessa. She's seventy years old, and veddy prim and strait-laced.  She's coming back from Europe at the end of the month, and I'm going to give her a myna bird that'll talk to her.
mitch		What'll it say?
melanie		 You'll think me very bold, sir.
mitch		No, tell me.
melanie		That's silly, isn't it?  Teaching a bird to shock my aunt. That's just silly and childish.  Maybe I ought to go join the other children.
annie		All right then, here we go.  Three! Go get 'em, Cathy!
cathy		No touching allowed!
mitch		Are you all right?
melanie		Yes.
annie		 That's the darnest thing thing I've ever seen in my life.
lydia		Are they gone?
mitch		They're gone, Mother.
lydia		Well... well, is everyone all right?
mitch		 I think he got a little scratch, Mother.
annie		Children, they were only seagulls.
cathy		They must have been after the food, Mother.
mitch		They didn't touch anything.
annie		 Who was 'it?' You were 'it,' weren't you, Cathy?
mitch		You look a little shaken.
melanie		I... I am.  Mitch, is... Mitch, this isn't usual, is it? The gull yesterday when I was in the boat, and the one last night at Annie's, and now...
mitch		Last night? What do you mean?
melanie		A gull smashed into Annie's front door.  Mitch... what's happening?
mitch		 Look, do you have to go back to Annie's?
melanie		No, I have my things in the car.
mitch		 Then stay and have something to eat before you start back. I'd feel a lot better.
mitch		Do you want some mustard with this?
cathy		 Why didn't Annie stay for dinner?
mitch		She said something about having to get home to take a call from her mother back East.
cathy		Oh. Where d'you want the coffee?
mitch		Take it into the living room, would you, hon?
cathy		 What's the matter with them?
lydia		What's the matter with all the birds?
lydia		Hurry up with the rest, Mitch. I'm sure Miss Daniels wants to get on her way.
cathy		I think you ought to stay the night, Melanie.
cathy		We've got an extra room upstairs and everything.
melanie		If I go across to Santa Rosa I'll come onto the freeway much earlier.
lydia		 Yeah, and the freeway's well-lighted, isn't it, Mitch?
mitch		Yeah, but she'll be hitting all that traffic going back to San Francisco.
cathy		Did you put the cover on that cage, Mom?
lydia		Yes, I did.
cathy		Just listen to them!
mitch		 Some cream?
melanie		I'll get it.
melanie		Mitch...
melanie		 Mitch!
mitch		 Cathy, get some matches!
melanie		Mitch! The curtains!
cathy		It's working! The fire's working!
malone		That's a chimney swift, all right.
mitch		We know what it is, Al.
malone		Well, these birds live in chimneys, you know.
mitch		Not by the thousands.
malone		No, I gotta admit this is peculiar.  Did you have a light burning or something.
mitch		Yes, but the curtains were drawn.
malone		'Cause sometimes birds are attracted by light, you know.  Sure is a peculiar thing.
mitch		What are we going to do about it, Al?
malone		I don't think I get you, Mitch. Do about what?
mitch		Well...  Well... these birds attacked us.
malone		What's more likely, they got in the room and was just panicked, that's all.
mitch		 All right, I'll grant you a bird'll panic in an enclosed room. But, they didn't just get in. They came in! Right down that chimney.
malone		 My wife found a bird in the back seat of her car once.
mitch		These birds were...
malone		What I'm trying to say, Mitch, is these things happen sometimes, you know? Ain't much we can do about it. 
lydia		Tell him about the party.
mitch		That's right. We had a party here this afternoon for Cathy. Her birthday.
malone		Oh, yeah, yeah.  How old is she now?
mitch		Eleven. In the middle of the party, some gulls came down at the children. And Miss Daniels was attacked by a gull just yesterday after...
malone		Yeah.  Were the kids bothering them or something? 'Cause sometimes they'll do that, you know. If you make any kind of disturbance near them, they'll just come after you. I seen that plenty of times myself.
lydia		The children were playing a game, Al. Those gulls attacked without...
malone		Now, Lydia, 'attack' is a pretty strong word, don't you think? I mean, birds just don't go around attacking people without no reason, you know what I mean? The kids just probably scared them, that's all.
lydia		These birds attacked!
malone		 Now, that'd be pretty silly, wouldn't it?
mitch		Does this room look silly?
malone		No, you got quite a mess here, I'll admit that.  You want some help cleaning up?
mitch		I can handle it myself.
melanie		I'll take Cathy up to bed.
mitch		Are you staying?
melanie		I think I should, don't you?
melanie		I'll get my things from the car. Do you want to walk with me, Cathy?
malone		Well, if there's anything else I can do, Mitch...
mitch		Thanks, Al. We'll be all right.
malone		Goodnight, Lydia.
malone		Sure is peculiar, I got to say that for it.
lydia's voice		Mitch! Mitch! Mitch, I'm going to drop Cathy off now.
mitch's voice		Okay.
lydia's voice		I'll probably drive over to the Fawcett farm. Do you need anything in town?
mitch's voice		No.
melanie		Mitch?
melanie		Mitch?
melanie		 Chee-chee-chee-chee-chee.
mitch		I wanted to change my shirt.
mitch		It smelled of the fire.
melanie		 I think I've got it all figured out, by the way.
mitch		Really? Tell me about it.
melanie		 It's an uprising.
mitch		Of birds?
melanie		Certainly, of birds.
melanie		It all started several months ago with a peasant sparrow up in the hills, a malcontent. He went around telling all the other sparrows that human beings weren't fit to rule this planet, preaching wherever anyone would listen...
mitch		Growing a beard...
melanie		 Yes, of course, he had to have a beard! 'Birds of the world, unite!' he kept saying, over and over...
mitch		So they united.
melanie		Not at first. Oh yes, a few sparrows out for kicks...
mitch		Well, they'll go along with anything.
melanie		Sure. But eventually, even the more serious-minded birds began to listen. "Why should humans rule?" they asked themselves.
mitch		Hear!
melanie		Why should we submit ourselves to their domination?
mitch		Hear, hear!
melanie		And all the while, that sparrow was getting in his little messages. Birds of the world, unite!
mitch		Take wing!
melanie		You have nothing to lose but your feathers.
mitch		 What it was, probably...
melanie		Mmm?
mitch		They're probably hungry, that's all. This was a bad summer. They eat berries and... and nuts, you know, and the hills are all burned out, so they're probably searching for food wherever they can get it.
melanie		With my little sparrow leading team.
mitch		It's so damn quiet out there.
melanie		It was like that yesterday.
mitch		What do you mean?
melanie		After the gulls attacked.
mitch		I hadn't thought of that.  And then the swifts came.
melanie		It makes you feel as if they're... they're waiting or... resting... or....
mitch		 No, they're having a meeting, Melanie. Your sparrow is standing on a soap box and...
mitch		...waving his little wings...
melanie		They were angry, Mitch. They came out of the chimney in fury.  I had the feeling they wanted each and every one of us dead.
mitch		Melanie, Melanie...
melanie		I'm frightened, Mitch.
mitch		No, no...
melanie		I'm frightened and confused and I... I think I want to go back to San Francisco where there are buildings and... and concrete and...
mitch		Melanie...
melanie		...everything I know.
melanie		Oh damn it, why did you have to walk into that shop?
lydia		Dan?
lydia		Dan?
lydia		 Hi, there!
lydia		 Is Mr. Fawcett home?
farmhand		 I think so, ma'm. His missus is in Santa Cruz, but he ought to be here.
lydia		Have you seen him this morning?
lydia		 Thank you!
lydia		Here, chick, chick, chick, chick. Here, chick, chick, chick, chick.
lydia		Dan?
lydia		Dan? Are you home?
lydia		Dan?
lydia		Dan?
lydia		Dan? Are you in there?
mitch		 What is it?
mitch		That was Al on the phone. He wants me to meet him out at the Fawcett place. Says some detectives from Santa Rosa'll be there in a little while.  Will you be all right here?
melanie		Yes. I was just taking her in some tea.
melanie		Be careful. Please.
melanie		No, it's me, Mrs. Brenner. I thought you might like some tea.
lydia		Oh, thank you.
lydia		Where's Mitch?
melanie		Al Malone wanted him out at the Fawcett farm.
lydia		Why? Didn't Al believe my story?
melanie		He was calling from the farm, Mrs. Brenner.
lydia		Then he saw.
melanie		He must have. He sent for the Santa Rosa police.
lydia		What good will they do?
lydia		Do you think Cathy's all right?
melanie		What?
lydia		Cathy. At the school.
melanie		Yes, I'm sure she's fine.
lydia		Do I sound foolish to you?
melanie		No.
lydia		I keep seeing Dan Fawcett's face.  All the windows were broken. In Dan's bedroom. All the windows.
melanie		Try not to think of that, Mrs. Brenner.
lydia		I wish I were a stronger person. There is a long awkward silence. She sips at her tea reflectively.
lydia		I lost my husband four years ago, you know.  Do you think Cathy's all right?
melanie		Annie's there. She'll be all right.
lydia		I'm not this way, you know. Not usually. I don't fuss and fret over my children.  You see, he knew the children, he really knew them. He had the knack of being able to enter into their world, of becoming a part of them. That's a rare talent.
melanie		Yes.
lydia		I wish I could be that way.
melanie		Would you like to rest now, Mrs. Brenner.
lydia		No.  No... don't go yet.  I feel as if I... I don't understand you. And I want so much to understand.
melanie		Why, Mrs. Brenner?
lydia		Because my son is...  I'm not quite sure how I feel about it. I really don't know if I... like you or not.
melanie		Is that so important, Mrs. Brenner? You liking me?
lydia		Yes, I think so. My son is important to me. I want to like any girl he chooses.
melanie		And if you don't?
lydia		 Then I don't suppose it'll matter much to anyone but me.
melanie		I think it might also matter to Mitch.
lydia		 You see, I... I wouldn't want to be... be left alone. I don't think I could bear being left alone.  I... forgive me. This business with the birds has me upset.  I... I don't know what I'd do if Mitch weren't here.
melanie		 Why don't you try to sleep now, Mrs. Brenner.
lydia		 Do you think she's all right? Do you think she's safe at the school?
melanie		Would you like me to go for her?
lydia		I couldn't ask you to.
melanie		I don't mind, really.
lydia		Would you? I'd feel so much better.
melanie		I'll just clear up here, and then dress.
lydia		Melanie?
lydia		 Thank you for the tea.
annie		We're not going outside until we quiet down. Ralph? Did you hear me?
annie		All right now.
annie		wh...?
melanie		Outside.
melanie		We've got to get the children out of here. These big windows... there's no way to board them up.
annie		Quiet down, children! Quiet down!
annie		Miss Daniels wants to see how we conduct ourselves during a fire drill. I'd like you to...
children		 A fire drill? This is our play period, Miss Hayworth! Gee whiz!  Etc.
annie		I'd like you to show her how quiet and obedient you can be.
annie		We're going to go out of the school now. Those of you who live nearby can go directly home. I want the rest of you to go down the hill, all the way to the hotel. Do you understand?
children		All the way down the hill? Gee, Miss Hayworth, we never... Home? Why do we...?
annie		 All right. John, would you lead the class, please?
melanie		 Hurry!
melanie		Daddy, there were hundreds of them. No, I'm not hysterical, I'm trying to tell you this as calmly as I know how. All right, Daddy. Yes Daddy.  Just now.  Not... fifteen minutes ago.
melanie		At the school. No, I don't. Just a minute.  What's the name of the school?
deke		Just the Bodega Bay School.  Help you, Mrs. Bundy?
melanie		The Bodega Bay School.  Could you turn that down, please?
melanie		I don't know how many children. Thirty or forty. Yes.
melanie		No, the birds didn't attack until the children were outside the school. Crows, I think. I don't know, Daddy. Is there a difference between crows and blackbirds?
melanie		They're different, Daddy.  I don't know when. I simply can't leave now. Tell Mother not to worry. All right, Daddy, good-by.
melanie		Thank you.  Do you know Dan Fawcett's number?
deke		In the book right here, Miss.
deke		 I don't see what difference it makes, Mrs. Bundy, crows or blackbirds. If they attacked the school, that's pretty serious.
melanie		 I just came from the school, madam. I don't know about their brain pans but...
helen		 Three Southern fried chicken, Sam. Baked potato on all of them.
melanie		 Yes, I'll wait.
deke		Mrs. Bundy, you don't seem to understand. This young lady says there was an attack on the school.
melanie		 Mitch? I'm glad I caught you. Something terrible has happened.
drunk		 It's the end of the world!
helen		What's this about the school?
deke		Bunch of crows attacked the school, Helen.
drunk		It's the end of the world.  "Thus saith the Lord God to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers and to the valleys; Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
helen		The Lord's not destroying anything, Jason.
drunk		"In all your dwelling places, the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be laid waste!"  Ezekiel, Chapter six.
helen		 "Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning that they may follow strong drink."
drunk		 Isaiah, Chapter 5. It's the end of the world.
melanie		Yes, all right, I'll wait for you. Good-by. 
melanie		 These weren't a few birds.
deke		I didn't even know there were many crows in Bodega Bay this time of year.
sholes		 How many gulls did you count, Mrs. Bundy?
sholes		The ones that've been raising the devil with my fishing boats.
melanie		 Have you had trouble with gulls?
sholes		One of my boats did last week.
deke		 This young lady got hit by a gull only Saturday.
sam's voice		 Pick up the chicken.
helen		Now it's gulls. A minute ago, it was crows.  Deke, I'm still waiting for those Bloody Marys!
deke		Coming right up!
woman		Could you ask them to lower their voices, please? They're frightening the children.
little girl		Timmy has a canary.
helen		That's nice. Are you Timmy?
little boy		My cousin is Timmy.
sam's voice		 A whole flock of gulls nearby capsized one of my boats.  Practically tore of the skipper's arm.
helen		 You're scaring the kids. Keep it low.
deke		You're scaring me, too. Are you trying to say all these...  That sounds impossible, Sebastian.
sholes		I'm only telling you what happened to my boat.
melanie		What were the crows after at the school?
melanie		Daniels. I think they were after the children.
melanie		To...  To kill them.
melanie		I don't know why.
melanie		No one called it a war!
salesman		Scotch, light on the water.
helen		Are you finished here, Sebastian?
sholes		Let me have some apple pie, Helen.  Who said anything about war? All I said was that some gulls...
helen		 One apple pie! You want more coffee?
sholes		No. ...came down on one of my boats. They could have been after the fish, just as you said.
salesman		Your captain should have shot at them.
sholes		What?
salesman		Gulls are scavengers, anyway. Most birds are. If you ask me, we should wipe them all out. World would be better off without them.
salesman		Yeah, birds. All they do is make a mess of everything. Who needs them?
salesman		Not if they're starting a war.
melanie		Have you ever seen a jay protecting a nest?
melanie		Maybe they're all protecting the species. Maybe they're tired of being shot at and roasted in ovens and...
melanie		I don't know anything about birds except that they're attacking this town.
salesman		Then fight back. Get yourselves guns and wipe them off the face of the earth.
deke		Why not, Mrs. Bundy?
salesman		 Kill them all. Get rid of them. Messy animals.
drunk		It's the end of the world!
deke		Well, we seem to have more than our share of them right now, Mrs. Bundy. Maybe this young lady's right.  Maybe they've all gone crazy.
helen		Here's your pie, Sebastian. You want it at the table?
sholes		No. Here's fine. 
helen		Where are the Bloody Marys, Deke?
deke		Coming.
helen		 Are we running a business here -- or a bird sanctuary?
sholes		 Actually, those gulls must have been after the fish.
sholes		Makes a lot more sense than... well, an attack.
drunk		Cockroaches!  Urghh!
woman		Hurry, children. Finish your lunch.
boy		Are the birds gonna eat us, Mommy?
sholes		Maybe we're all getting a little carried away by this. Admittedly, a few birds acted strangely. That's no reason to believe...
melanie		This isn't a few birds! I keep telling you that! These are gulls and swifts and crows and...
melanie		Maybe! Is it impossible?
sholes		We couldn't. You're right, Mrs. Bundy.
woman		 Excuse me, may I have a check, please?
helen		 Is everything all right, ma'am?
woman		Yes, I... I'm anxious to get on the road.
sam		 What's the matter? Something wrong out here?
deke		Nothing's wrong.
sam		All this shouting.
sam		A war? Against who? Did the Russians...?
sholes		Against birds.
woman		 I'm glad you all think this is so amusing. You've frightened my children half out of their wits.
boy		I'm not scared, Mommy.
woman		Keep quiet. If that young lady saw an attack on the school, why won't you believe her?
sam		What attack? Who attacked the school?
woman		Birds did. Crows! And you're all sitting around here debating! What do you want them to do next? Crash through that window?
little girl		 Mommy!
woman		Quiet! Why don't you all get home? Lock your doors and windows!  What's the fastest road to San Francisco?
deke		The freeway, ma'am.
woman		Where do I get it?
salesman		I'm going out that way, lady. You can follow me.
woman		Then let's go. Now!
salesman		I haven't finished my drink.
woman		 Put on your coats! Do you want to get trapped here?
boy		I can't find my scarf.
woman		Look in your sleeve!
mitch		Melanie?
mitch		 I got here as fast as I could. Where's Cathy?
melanie		At Annie's house. She's all right.
sam		Al, why aren't you over there where the attack was?
malone		Because I just got back from Dan Fawcett's place, that's why.
mitch		He was killed last night. By birds.
malone		Now hold it, Mitch. You don't know that for a fact.
malone		Santa Rosa police think it was a felony murder. They think a burglar broke in and killed him.
woman		Were the Santa Rosa police at your school today?  Are you coming?
salesman		Take it easy, lady.  There isn't a bird anywhere in sight.
drunk		 "Look at the birds of the air: they do not sow or read, yet your heavenly father feeds them."
woman		I'll never feed another bird as long as I live!
salesman		Something like this happened in Santa Cruz last year. The town was covered with seagulls.
woman		Can't you please finish your drink?
salesman		They made some mess, too, smashing into houses and everything.  They always make a mess. We're better off without them.
woman		I'm leaving! Are you coming?
salesman		All right, all right!  Hope you figure this out, folks.
drunk		It's the end of the world.
sholes		Well, I'd better get back to the cannery. What do I owe you, Deke?
deke		Let's see. Scallops and coffee...
mitch		Hold it just a minute, Sebastian.
mitch		Sebastian, I'm not an alarmist.
sholes		No one ever said you were, Mitch.
mitch		 I think we're in trouble. I don't know how or why this started, but I know it's here and I know we'd be crazy to ignore it.
mitch		 Yes, the bird war, the bird attack, the bird plague, you can call it what you want to, they're out there massing someplace and they'll be back, you can count on that!
mitch		Mrs. Bundy, why don't you go home and polish your binoculars?
sam		Go on, Mitch.
mitch		If we don't do something now, if we don't get Bodega Bay on the move...
sholes		Look, Mitch, even if this is true, even if all the birds...
mitch		Do you believe it's true, Sebastian?
sholes		 No. I don't, Mitch. Because I can't see any reason for it.
mitch		It's happening. Isn't that a good enough reason?
mitch		Then help me, Sebastian. You're an important man in this town. If you'll help, the rest will.
sholes		Help how? What do you want to do?
mitch		I'm not sure, but...
sholes		If you don't even know what you want to do...
melanie		Listen to him, please.
sam		 You listen to him, Sebastian!
mitch		I only know we've got to drive them away from town -- before they drive us away.
sholes		How?
mitch		Mrs. Bundy, you said something about Santa Cruz. About seagulls getting lost in the fog, and heading in for the lights.
deke		We don't have any fog this time of year, Mitch.
mitch		We'll make our own fog.
sholes		How do you plan to do that?
mitch		With smoke.
malone		There's an ordinance against burning anything in this town, unless it's...
mitch		We'll use smoke pots. Like the Army uses.
deke		What good'll that do? Smoke's as bad as birds.
sholes		How can we go on living here if we blanket the town with smoke?
mitch		Can we go on living here otherwise?
sam		 It's worth a try, Sebastian.
melanie		Look!
deke		 Gulls!
mitch		They're back!
sholes		They're only the usual... What are you...
mitch		 Stay back in here.
melanie		Mitch...! Mitch!
woman		Why are they doing it?! Why are they doing it...?!
mitch		 I think they're going.
mitch		I think it's safe to get out now.
melanie		Don't let's take any chances.
mitch		We've got to get Cathy.
melanie's voice		Look... the crows again.
melanie		Careful, Mitch. The crows may be back in the play yard.
melanie		 Mitch! Don't!
melanie		Please! Get Cathy!  Let's get out of here!
melanie		Mitch, you can't leave her out there.
melanie		You drive, Mitch.
melanie		 I don't think they're coming.
cathy		On our way back from taking Michele home... we... we heard the explosion and went outside to... see what... what it was.  She pushed me inside.
melanie		The town looks clear.
mitch		The bay doesn't.
melanie		How long have they been gathering there?
mitch		The past fifteen minutes.  It seems to be a pattern, doesn't it? They strike and disappear, and then they start massing again.
melanie		I keep thinking of Annie. 
mitch		 It... it doesn't look very different, does it? A little smoke over the town, but otherwise...
melanie		 Even the birds sitting out there. It does look very much the same, Mitch. This could be last week.
mitch		It may not be last week again for a long long time.
melanie		Look. They're still coming.
mitch		Do you want to try your father again? 
melanie		I tried a little while ago. The phone's dead.
mitch		Have we still got power?
melanie		Yes.  I'm tired, Mitch. I'm so very very tired.
lydia		I can't get any of the local stations. I think this is San Francisco.
announcer		...would include formulation of a central financing committee to handle credit and to allocate responsibility for the various facets of the project. A vote on the motion is expected early tomorrow morning.
announcer		Continuing with the local news, police are still investigating the series of valuable jade burglaries in the Chinatown area. The round-up of known criminals has not as yet produced a suspect, but Commissioner Nelson said today he was certain the burglaries were quote linked and the work of the team of professionals unquote.  On the national scene today, the opening of the new session of Congress was marked by a State of the Union address that...
mitch		Is that all?
mitch		 We're going to need more wood for the fire. We can't let it go out.
announcer		 For it is the fate of this generation -- Of you in the Congress and of me as President -- to live with a struggle we did not start, in a world we did - not make. But the pressures of life are not always distributed by choice. And while no nation has ever faced such a challenge, no nation has ever been ready to seize the burden and the glory of...
lydia		 Did you you get the windows in the attic, Mitch?
mitch		I got them all, Mother.
lydia		When do you think they'll come?
mitch		I don't know.
lydia		If there are... larger birds, Mitch... they'll get into the house.
mitch		That's a chance we have to take.
lydia		Maybe we ought to leave.
mitch		Not now.  Not while they're massing out there.
lydia		When?
mitch		I don't know when.  We'll see what...
lydia		Where will we go?
mitch		I don't know yet.  I think we'll be safe here.  Let's bring that wood in.
lydia		What happens when we run out of wood?
mitch		I don't know. We'll break up the furni...
lydia		 You don't know, you don't know! When will you know? When we're all dead? Like Annie?
cathy		 Mother!
lydia		 If your father were here...
mitch		 I'm... trying... my...
lydia		 I'm sorry, Mitch.
mitch		Let's get the wood. Why don't you make us all some coffee, Mother?
melanie		Where are they heading?
mitch		Inland.
melanie		Santa Rosa?
mitch		Maybe.
melanie		That's the last of it.
lydia		Did you close the door?
melanie		And locked it.
cathy		Mitch, can I bring the lovebirds in here?
lydia		 No!
cathy		Mom, they're in a cage!
lydia		They're birds!
mitch		 Let them stay in the other room.
cathy		Mitch? Why are they doing this?  The birds.
mitch		 I don't know, honey.
cathy		Why are they trying to kill people?
mitch		I wish I could say. But if I could answer that, I could also tell you why people are trying to kill people.
lydia		Mitch...
mitch		Shhh. Shhh.
cathy		 I'm... I'm sick, Melanie. I want.. I want to throw...
melanie		I'll go with you.
melanie		When will they stop?
mitch		I thought they'd have stopped by now.
melanie		What time is it?
mitch		Almost two a.m.
melanie		You must be exhausted.
mitch		How about you?
mitch		I wonder if Cathy fed them.
mitch		 You should have left when you wanted to.
mitch		You'd have been safe in San Francisco.
melanie		I don't want to be safe. I want to be with you.
mitch		 The power.
melanie		Mitch...
mitch		Wait here. Don't move.
mitch		We'd better light some of those lamps.
melanie		No... wait.  Hold me.
mitch		I think they're easing off.
melanie		 Mitch?
melanie		 Mitch?
mitch		Mother, get a rope!
lydia		Oh, my God, look at her!
mitch		 Get a rope!
mitch		 Mother! Hurry!
mitch		Cathy! Get a blanket and some bandages!
cathy		 Is she all right?
melanie		I'm... I'm....
mitch		Just lie there and keep still.
lydia		Let me do that, Mitch.
mitch		I can handle it.
lydia		I know you can.  But I'd like to.
melanie		 Please don't mess me up with bandages, Mrs. Brenner.
lydia		Shhhh. Shhhh.
melanie		Please.
lydia		 I'm not very good at this, Mitch.
mitch		You're doing fine.
lydia		 I mean. I want to...
cathy		Listen!
lydia		They're gone. God have mercy, they're gone.
mitch		They're gone. The same pattern.
lydia		But they'll be back.
mitch		We won't be here.
lydia		Where can we go, Mitch? There's no place to go.
mitch		I want to try for San Francisco. There are buildings there. Steel and concrete!
lydia		 We'd never make it. They're probably all over the road.
mitch		We have to try it.  Mother, the house won't take another attack.
lydia		If...  If they're already there?
mitch		They won't be.
lydia		If they are?
mitch		We'll worry about that when we get there.
lydia		I'm frightened, terribly frightened. I... I don't know what's out there, Mitch.
mitch		What do we have to know, Mother? We're all together, we all love each other, we all need each other. What else is there? Mother, I want us to stay alive!
lydia		 I started to say... inside...
mitch		You don't have to.
mitch		I think we'd better get started.
cathy		May I take them, Mitch?
cathy		They haven't harmed anyone.
lydia		Take them.
mitch		 We'll put them in the trunk, Cathy.
mitch		Be careful with that door.
melanie		 Mitch, if they hear the car starting... if they see movement...
mitch		We'll take it slow until we get to the main road.  Are you ready?
mitch		All right.  Here we go.
mitch		Shhh.  Shhhh.
cathy		 Mitch, let's turn back.
mitch		Shhh. Shhhhh.
lydia		Mitch!
melanie		Can we turn back?
mitch		I... I don't think so. If we get through town, I think we'll be all right.
melanie		Then go ahead, Mitch.
melanie		Mitch!
lydia		 LEAVE US ALONE!
lydia		We're losing them.
cathy		Mitch?  Do... do you think they'll be all right? In the trunk? Can they breath?
mitch		 I think they'll be all right, honey.
mitch		It looks... it looks clear up ahead.
****Dialogues from script :Birthday_Girl.txt****

john		Hello.
john		Hello, hello. Hello...
john		I don't believe in perfect love. You know, love that comes out of the sky like a thunderbolt and uh... This is ridiculous.
john		No. No no no. Nope.
john		Running. Reading. Going out. Staying in. The countryside. Films, if they're good.
john		Thoughtful. Outgoing. Ambitious. Well-read. Reasonably popular. Balanced. Trusting. Quite attractive. Outgoing.
john		Someone intelligent, of course. Kind. Pretty I suppose. But its not critical.
john		We all have someone in our past who uh... one skeleton, if you like. We've all got at least one person, as it were, under the patio. Not literally of course. I suppose I only say this because I always thought people who did this sort of thing were... I had an image that they were losers. Not losers. A bit sad. But I think this is the modern world. And I think really it's quite a brave move. Quite a brave, reasonable thing to do.
john		Sorry can we start again?
john		Nadia?
john		I'm John.
john		Welcome.  Well. Look I didn't have a speech but...
john		Is that everything?
nadia		Yes.
john		Right. Okay. Good.
john		We can talk in the car.
john		It's about forty miles from here. I don't know if you've looked at a map, it's close to London but it's a city in itself. A Roman city. It's a nice house. I'm having a problem with ants. I uh... It's the warmer weather. I can't seem to find the nest. Sorry, do you understand "ants"?
nadia		Yes.
john		I just can't find a nest. The root of the problem. I've looked everywhere. What's the Russian for ant? Sorry that's a stupid... Sorry. This is strange isn't it.
nadia		Yes.
john		I'm pretty nervous. Are you?
nadia		Yes.
john		I mean... "Ants." "I've got a problem with ants."
john		I had this...
john		As a joke but uh...
john		So. Is it different to how you imagined it?
nadia		Yes.
john		I bet.  What about me? Am I how you imagined?
nadia		Yes.
john		And how was the flight. Sorry, am I speaking too fast for you?
nadia		Yes.
john		Do uh... Sorry. Can you follow me? Do you understand what I'm saying?
nadia		Yes.
john		Good. Or should I speak slower?
nadia		Yes.
john		Do you follow or should I speak slower?
nadia		Yes.
john		Uh... Are you a giraffe?
nadia		Yes.
john		 Oh Jesus.
john		Oh Jesus.
john		 Lounge.
john		Kitchen.
john		Bathroom.
john		Bedroom.
john		The uh... the other bedroom...
john		I'll get an ashtray.
answer machine		You have reached From Russia with Love. Our office reopens on Monday. If you are interested in our services...  Thank You.
john		This is John Buckingham from St Albans. I need to speak to you urgently. There's a critical problem. It's... Call me back as soon as possible. It's critical.
john		I don't know what to say. Your letters were in English. Good English. You said you'd studied English.
john		I can't take this.
john		I can't take it. I'm not really a ring guy.
john		Okay. No big deal. Thank you. Yes thanks. Thank you.
john		Good night.
john		You should go now. We'll talk in the morning.
answer machine		You have reached From Russia With Love. If you are interested...
john		Nadia. This isn't going to work. I'm sorry. It's been a terrible mistake. You must go.
john		I'm booking a flight for tomorrow. I'm sorry.
voice over		Problem solving. John identifies most problems within appropriate time frames...
voice over		Most of the time he develops several alternative solutions to problems...
voice over		He usually resolves or minimises most problems before they grow into larger problems...
clare		Good weekend?
john		Uh. Yeah. Pretty good.
clare		Do anything special?
john		Uh. No.
voice over		Communications. John listens and comprehends well.
branch manager		On one occasion John showed first class communication skills in a delicate customer situation.
branch manager		Judgment -- John makes able decisions in most areas of his job.
john		Thank you -- I think that's very fair.
voice over		It will feel very strange at first but then you get used to it.
trainer		Good. Again.
trainer		Very good. How does that feel John?
john		It feels good. Weird.
trainer		It's called Trust and Letting Go.
trainer		Trust and Letting Go.
john		Are you O.K.?
nadia		Today is bath day.
john		Sorry?
nadia		Today is bath day.
john		Bath day?
john		I don't understand.
nadia		Happy bath day.
john		Today?
john		Syevodnya?
nadia		Syevodnya
john		Happy Birthday. Happy Birthday.
nadia		Party.  Party. Syevodnya.
john		Yes. Party. Party syevodnya.
john		...It might just be a twenty-four hour bug...
clare		Well you just get better. I'll tell Beaky. You just get some rest, ok?
john		Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday dear Nadia...
yuri		You must be John. You seem very nice. Excuse me.
yuri		How's that? We can't drink our piss can we?
john		Hang on hang on, sorry, but like, who are you?
yuri		You must find some glasses, small, for the toast, and some plates.
john		What are you doing here?
yuri		Sorry. You've lost me...
john		I'm asking what you're here for.
yuri		What?
yuri		 You don't speak Russian? Pratsteetye! This explains your cold eyes.
nadia		 "Frenzy".
john		Yes I know.
yuri		 Alexei. Alexei and Yuri.
john		What did he say?
yuri		He says he feels safe here.
yuri		She says she wanted to tell you but her English is shit. And no one speaks Russian, it's very hard for her. The light please.
john		I need to know who you are first please.
yuri		Oh.  We are Russian.
john		Yes. I know.
yuri		Good. 
john		And...
yuri		And what? You mean from the beginning? Jesus. Can I uh okay, as we say in Russia can I cut a long story short. Okay. Nadia is my little cousin. Except she's not. But we say cousin. This is for you.
john		Hold on.
yuri		Toast first then we talk seriously, I can see you are serious about us.
yuri		Just kidding.
john		 So hang on. You're both Nadia's cousins?
yuri		 Of course not. Alexei, he's is my problem.
john		Right.
yuri		We better watch him. He's crazy.
john		Right.
yuri		I am actor, he is actor, although he is an actor stroke musician. I just noodle along, I'm not so good. He makes me look like a retard -- He smokes me. I don't mean he smokes me.
yuri		I mean he smokes me. Do you say "smoke" in U.K.?
john		No.
yuri		Right. So I can say he smokes me. So.
john		So?
yuri		So I come to England with other actors to make shows, I meet this freak from Novgorod I tell him of you and Chicken and the birthday here we are.
john		What was that?
yuri		I asked her if you were happy to see us. I find it hard to tell with you.
john		Yes it's okay. Thank you for the food.
yuri		She says you are a little shy. I think I know this.
john		So how long will you be in England?
yuri		Plans are for the architects, politicians and so forth.
john		You must have a visa or something...
yuri		You're asking for my documents?
john		No, no...
yuri		We are all Europeans here. Europe, Tony Blair and Maggie Thatcher!
yuri		So. You have nothing to say to your Fiancee? Maybe to wife of forty years it's understandable. Come on. You speak and I will translate.
john		Hello.
yuri		She says 'Hello' to you. Go for it John!
john		Uh. Do you like England?
yuri		Classic!  Thank God. She says 'Yes!'
john		Uh...
john		I can't think of anything. Hang on.
yuri		She says she has a secret to tell.
john		What?
yuri		She says she watched you at the airport.
john		When?
yuri		 "I saw you waiting there, by the gate."
john		I...
yuri		"I have these uh..." She explains to you... "When I was a little girl my father had these beautiful old glasses." Like... I don't know the word. Like for watching uh... for watching the birds.
john		Binoculars.
yuri		Binoculars. He had these Binoculars he has kept from the war.
yuri		The day before I left Russia my father gave me the old binoculars. He said that when I saw you I was to stand far away and look at you with these, and to examine your face closely. And if you were a bad person I could run away.
yuri		She says she took a picture.
alexei		Nasyekski.
john		What was that?
yuri		Oh nothing.
john		Tell me.
yuri		No. It is too judgmental.
john		Tell me what he said.
yuri		He says why did you send to Russia for a wife.
yuri		You are not ashamed of it? It's no surprise to want to love.
john		No. It's not that.
yuri		Do you believe in love?
john		I suppose it's... I mean define your terms.
yuri		It's very strange. How many people are truly themselves with their love? It is the greatest human disaster and it is never in the newspapers. There are no Marches Against Heartache, no Ministries Against Loneliness, no Concerts Against Disappointment. We look away. And still we know in secret that nothing is more important to us. The one thing we all share but don't say. Look John I will show you something.
yuri		Here look, something beautiful from Russia. Here is Life, there, take it.
yuri		Here is bread. Khylep. This is work. We all need this, here eat.
yuri		Good. But we cannot survive with just work, so here is meat and blood. Myasa. This is family and country, flesh, strength, eat.
yuri		But again this is not life. Here is joy and pain. Chyesnok. Without these life has no flavour, is too serious. Eat.
yuri		But this vodka.  Is love. Only this magic changes you inside. The moon and the stars and the sun.
yuri		This is a love song, a soldier's song to his beloved -- Alexei, he's Afghanstya, a veteran of Afghanistan. He saw terrible things.
branch manager		Quick word John?
branch manager		This is sensitive. Your car. Lovely car. Doesn't necessarily give the right impression.
john		Ch...
branch manager		To customers approaching the bank from the rear
john		 Right.
branch manager		You can see why it's sensitive?
john		Uh... Yes.
branch manager		I'll leave it on your desk.
yuri		 John. We can see you hiding.
yuri		How is bank?
john		Fine. I thought you were leaving today.
yuri		To be indoors on such a day. It's crime.
john		Hey.
yuri		He's just having fun. He's maybe too strong you know...
nadia		They go. John. They go.
john		What's wrong?
nadia		They go.
john		Of course. They go. Yes. Yes.
nadia		They go.
yuri		I understand. I'm so sorry
john		You can stay tonight.
yuri		I have brought you trouble. Maybe I should have come alone.
john		Good night.
yuri		John. You must call the Police.
john		What are you doing?
yuri		John, I'm sorry. It's my fault.
john		What's he doing? What the fuck are you doing? Leave her alone.
yuri		He says sit down. Or he'll cut her.
yuri		Sit down please.
john		Tell him to stop and let her go, and we'll talk.
john		Put the fucking kettle down.
yuri		John.
john		Put the fucking kettle down. Tell, Yuri, tell him put it down or I'm going to make him.
yuri		He says you scare him so much he must go to the toilet in his trousers. John, he is a soldier. A trained killer. We must do what he says.
john		What? What does he want?
john		What did he say? Tell me!
yuri		He says you are very sad ridiculous man. I don't agree of course. And that you must pay someone to have sex like a prostitute. Nadia is a prostitute. I'm sorry.
john		What does he want. The Russian shithead. What do you want ?
yuri		He wants money.
john		Tell him to put the kettle down and I'll give him money.
yuri		He wants a lot of money.
john		I'll give him money. Tell him to put the...
yuri		He wants the money from your bank.
john		I'll fuckin' give it to him! We'll go down there.
yuri		You don't understand. He wants all the money that is in your bank.
john		I've got eight hundred pounds. Oh Jesus.
john		Oh Jesus.
yuri		He is sure you can do this. Of course you can not.
john		Oh Jesus. Of course I can't.
john		Just leave her alone.
yuri		I'm so sorry.
john		Leave her alone.
branch manager		Ah John. This is Robert Moseley, Head of South East New Business. Robert, this is John Buckingham.
moseley		Hello John.
john		Hello.
branch manager		I thought you could give us the tour this morning. Sort of be our Indian Guide.
john		Right.
moseley		 Do you play?
john		Yes. I do.
clare		That's John. He's always surprising you with hidden talents.
moseley		I used to be in a band. Keyboards. Sort of like very loud, uh -- very loud Marillion.
clare		 Well, Maestro, give us a tune.
john		I'll give you a tune later.
branch manager		Take the ball and run with it John.
john		This is uh... This is the uh...
passing colleague		Morning John. Give us a tune.
john		I'll give you a tune later.
john		This is where we're doing Trust and uh... Trust and Letting Go.
moseley		We're not doing this till the fourth quarter -- Has it, uh -- any results, has it been been beneficial?
john		Yes.
clare		It's weird at first. Sort of exciting and frightening at the same time. Wouldn't you say John?
john		Yes.
branch manager		We're starting to see results. This is Karen, who's uh... taking uh... it.
john		Excuse me.
colleague		Morning John. Hey, Moseley's here.
john		I'll give you a tune later.
moseley		It's weird isn't it.
nadia		So?
alexei		 You first.
yuri		Fifty thousand. Almost exactly.
nadia		Sixty four thousand, eight hundred.
alexei		There's over eighty thousand here.
yuri		Sweet Jesus...
alexei		Put it in the cases. Split it up.
yuri		What for?
alexei		You know what for.
yuri		No I don't.
alexei		I got you those trousers from Paul Smith.
yuri		I've been buying you stuff all week. I've been buying him stuff all week.
alexei		Such as?
yuri		When we went to the Hard Rock Cafe. Who paid? When we went to see 'Cats'. Who paid?
alexei		Those aren't presents. That's normal friendship stuff
yuri		I paid for those guitar cases.
nadia		What was 'Cats' like?
yuri		It was alright.
alexei		Yeah it was okay.
yuri		Yeah. It was quite good actually. Some bits I really liked.
alexei		The sets were good.
yuri		The sets were excellent. Everything was big, you know, all the rubbish, coke cans, sweet wrappers, dustbins, so when you were watching it you felt cat size. It was really clever.
alexei		 So. How many times did you have to fuck him?
yuri		How you doing?
yuri		I'll show you something. It should make all this easier I think.
yuri		Not all these bastards were like you, believe me. You should not too feel bad.
nadia		It's enough isn't it?
alexei		What do you mean?
nadia		You know what I mean babe, It's enough. We can stop.
alexei		Do you want to stop?
nadia		Yes.
alexei		We'll stop then.
alexei		What's this?
nadia		It's nothing. I burnt myself.
alexei		That's not a burn.
nadia		It is. I did it cooking.
alexei		On both wrists?
nadia		What? I did it cooking.
nadia		What?
nadia		Listen, I made you something.
nadia		Put it on.
nadia		It's taken me weeks. I want to see you in it.
nadia		Do you like it?
alexei		Yeah.
nadia		Say thank you.
alexei		Thank you.
nadia		We're going to have a baby.
alexei		What?
nadia		You heard what I said. I'm pregnant. I've been throwing up for weeks.
nadia		We're having a baby.
alexei		A baby? What are we supposed to do with a baby?
nadia		Name it.
nadia		 Great. You've split my fuckin, lip.
waitress		Good morning. What can I get you?
nadia		I'll have an espresso, with a small pastry, a croissant or something.
waitress		We only do a croissant with the Continental breakfast.
nadia		Just get me a coffee.
waitress		One coffee. And for you Sir ?
nadia		He'll have a coffee.
john		You can't smoke in here.
john		YOU CAN'T SMOKE IN HERE!
nadia		I don't expect you to understand.
john		Oh, I don't know. In my job as Deputy Assistant of New Business at the bank would have to listen to the problems of a great many individuals. This took a lot of understanding and sympathy, to try to work out solutions to their problems. But, you see, I'm not in that line of work anymore. Nowadays I'm a bank robber.
nadia		You don't understand anything.
john		I think that about covers it. I think I have grasped the part about you being dumped though. That's got to hurt, I imagine. That's got to smart a bit. I mean strictly in my observer's capacity it seemed you two were getting on Pretty Fucking Famously.
john		Unless. Unless this is part of the routine. You get tied up, stick around, distract me, they both bust in and Steal My Cup Of Coffee.
nadia		It's makes it easier. Okay.
john		I don't want to know.
nadia		It makes it faster. If I don't speak to the men, they fall faster. It's pretty obvious why.
john		That's a relief. It's nice to know I'm a regular guy.
nadia		So what are you going to do?
john		I'm going to drink my coffee. Then, we're going to the police station. Where there will be lawyers, loss of job, house, humiliation, gutter press, and probably prison.
nadia		They don't blame you. When a bank employee does this they understand. You get your life back. Anyway I bet you hated that bank.
john		Even so I always felt the decision to burst in and rob it very much remained with me.
nadia		Why else would you send off for me? If you just wanted sex just go to a prostitute.
john		Well as it turns out I did.
waitress		More coffee?
john		Yes please.
nadia		No.
john		Splendid. Thank you.
waitress		Pleasure.
nadia		John, I need your help.
john		You must think... I'm the biggest pillock... In the world.
nadia		No I don't.
john		In the world.
nadia		I know you just want to punish me --
john		I do. I want to very badly.
nadia		So you're just going to be vindictive
john		In every sense. If at all possible.
nadia		You can't hurt me more than I'm hurt already.
john		Well, Nadia, It it's all the same to you, I'd like to give it a bash.
nadia		My name isn't Nadia.
nadia		 Where's the restroom?
john		What?
nadia		I'm going to be sick. Where's the...
john		What? No you're not..
nadia		I'm going... I am... I'm going to be sick.
john		 No you're not. How... Nice one. How dumb do you think I am ?
nadia		Where's the restroom?
sergeant		The what, love?
nadia		The toilet. Where's...
sergeant		Down there on the left.
john		You're pregnant.
policeman		Can I help you?
policeman		Sir? Can I help you?
john		No.
nadia		What are you doing?
john		Get in the car.
nadia		Plenty of women have babies in prison.
nadia		 You don't have to do this. I can look after myself.
john		 Have you got your passport?
nadia		What?
john		Shut up. Have you got your passport?
nadia		Yes.
john		We've got to get off this motor-way.
john		Give me some money.
nadia		I don't have any money.
john		What?
nadia		I said I don't have any.
john		Give me your sunglasses.
john		So, uh, Alexei, which I know isn't his name...
nadia		I don't want to talk about him.
john		Fine.
nadia		It's none of your business.
john		Fine. Absolutely. Must be disappointing though. Must come as a hell of a shock.
john		So uh...
nadia		Look, if you want to know is he better in bed than you then yes he is.
john		Oh Jesus.
nadia		If what you want to know is does he have a bigger cock than you, then yes he does.
john		 Of course. Of course. Of course he does. Of course. Thank you. Thanks.
nadia		But, you know, so what?
john		It's his baby I take it.
john		Not the kids type then is he? Not that broody. You must be pretty miffed.
nadia		He will come back.
john		Excuse me?
nadia		He left me my passport and ticket. It's pretty clear he wants to see me again.
john		Yeah. I tend to tie up and abandon women I really want to see again too.
nadia		No. But you tend to tie them up.
john		Fuck off.
john		Fuck off. You started it.
john		I don't want to talk about it.
nadia		Why not?
john		Shut up. I'm not listening.
nadia		You don't want to talk about it.
john		No.
nadia		Okay we won't talk about it.
nadia		We'll pretend it never happened.
john		So. What's it like having to fuck men you hate?
nadia		I don't hate you.
john		Okay. Let's... Okay. Okay. You have had sex with people you don't like haven't you? For money. To make money.
nadia		And? What are you saying?
john		And. It's wrong.
nadia		And who says what is wrong.
john		And that would be Morals. That would be one's own moral sense of decency.
nadia		What's a moral orgasm John? Tell me how it feels exactly.
john		So. What then? You just detach sex from everything..
nadia		Whereas "Wet 'n' Wild" is an emotional journey. "Tied and Tethered". It's pretty moving huh? Like Anna Karenina.
john		Listen. I didn't go rooting around in your private stuff.
nadia		Funny. Usually it's the first thing they do.
john		So what? Do you just switch off in your head or do you imagine you're with him, or what?
nadia		Sometimes.
john		Sometimes which?
nadia		Sometimes neither.
john		Some... What does that mean?
nadia		There's nothing wrong in liking sex, John.
john		I don't like sex. I don't think I'll be having sex ever again.
nadia		Why?
john		Well, it's just that the thought trying to charm up an erection in front of a woman, or alone for that matter, makes me want to die.
nadia		So now you hate all women?
john		I think it's my safest bet, don't you?
nadia		Oh. I think you will recover okay. I think you got what you paid for.
john		What?
nadia		You...
john		I got what I paid for.
nadia		You didn't mind too much.
john		 It wasn't what I wanted.
nadia		So what did you want? I think we understand each other, no?
john		 You don't understand me.
nadia		You don't understand you either.
nadia		It's no big thing. You are the same as most men. You are a man so you are a savage. Not a monster, but half animal. You put on a tie and you go to the bank, but really you are a beast. But also you are from woman so you have a soul. Half beast, half soul. But you hide your beast in the bottom of the wardrobe. It's not so healthy. It's fucked you up, no?
john		Get out.
nadia		Excuse me?
john		Get out
nadia		You are throwing me out.
john		Get out.
nadia		It's another twenty miles. It's going dark.
nadia		What now?
john		Jesus. You weren't even on the plane.
nadia		You know, in Russia, there's no work for women. It's a different world.
john		 You don't have to say anything
nadia		 What? I... I wasn't saying...
john		 Please, there's no... Oh.
nadia		I wasn't saying anything.
john		Then okay.  So how old were you when you met him?
nadia		Fifteen. You don't know him. He was very kind and strong.
john		Yeah. He's a smashing bloke.
nadia		The rest of the world, John, it's not all like St. Albans.
john		Thank Christ for that.
nadia		You are pretty naive if you think it is.
john		I'm pretty naive? Look at you. You have to do all this, and what have you got to show for it? Nothing.
nadia		I don't have nothing.
john		Well what have you got?
nadia		I have my baby.
john		Do you know if it's a boy or a girl?
nadia		No.
john		Have you had any before?
nadia		No.
john		Are you scared?
nadia		Not really. Maybe a little.
nadia		Listen. I think it's a fox.
nadia		It sounds close.
nadia		I can't see anything. It's too dark.
nadia		What happened between you and the blonde?
john		What?
nadia		The thin... the girl with small eyes. The one in your cupboard.
john		It's none of your business. She didn't have small eyes.
nadia		Did she leave you? Come on. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Who did she leave you for? Your best friend? Her boss? A woman? Did she leave you for a woman, John?
john		She's dead.
nadia		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to hurt you. I'm sorry. That's awful. Forgive me.
nadia		I'm sorry.
john		I don't know why I said that. She's not dead at all.
nadia		What?
john		I don't know why I said it. I'm sorry.
nadia		She's alive?
nadia		She's alive!! She is not dead?
john		Laugh it up.
john		You should stop smoking. You're pregnant. You smoke like a fucking lab dog.
nadia		I'm trying to quit.
john		I've got news for you. It's not working.
nadia		I smoke more these days. I smoke more when I'm unhappy.
john		Nobody's that unhappy.
nadia		Maybe I want to die. Don't you want me to die?
john		I don't want anyone to die.
nadia		Except for Small Eyes.
john		Except for Small Eyes.
nadia		So why did it end?
john		I don't know.
nadia		What was her name?
john		What's your name?
nadia		Listen. It's definitely a fox. Now I'm scared.
nadia		You know you can come under the blanket.
john		It's alright.
nadia		I've got an hour. Can I buy you a coffee?
john		No. I think I better just go.
nadia		Okay. Thank you.
john		Whatever.
nadia		John. These are for you.
john		Yeah. No thanks.
nadia		Please. Why not?
john		Because it was a lie.
nadia		No it wasn't.
nadia		Goodbye.
john		Oh Jesus.
alexei		I love you. I don't need to tell you that.
alexei		I wouldn't leave my child would I? You know that. I was confused. That's all.
alexei		It wasn't easy for me. You know what I'm like. I needed to know what I wanted. Now I know. It's simple. I'm happy.
alexei		You still love me? Eh? Of course you do. Come here. Yuri won't be here for a while. Come on babe.
nadia		What are you doing here?
alexei		What the fuck is he doing here?
alexei		That's that cigarette lighter I gave you isn't it?
nadia		Stop.
alexei		What? What are you doing?
nadia		 What are you doing here?
nadia		 Stop it!
alexei		What. You're what? You're with this creep now.
nadia		Leave him!
alexei		You have. You've actually fallen for this prick.
nadia		No I haven't.
alexei		Babe it's me. I won't let you get away.
nadia		I'll kill you if you try.
subtitle		Fuck a duck.
nadia		Get their passports.
alexei		Don't do this.
nadia		 Get your money.
john		Are you okay?
john		Okay. Goodbye.
nadia		Goodbye.
john		What will you do now?
nadia		Something else.
john		Okay. Promise?
nadia		Promise.
john		You can probably buy them on the flight.
nadia		I'm quitting. This will be my last one. So. Goodbye.
john		Goodbye.
nadia		You didn't deserve me John Buckingham.
john		Whatever.
nadia		I'm sorry.
john		Please.
nadia		You prefer your women...
nadia		It's not mine.
john		It's not mine either.
nadia		It's what you came back for.
nadia		 You're a big surprise, you know.
john		Yeah, you see when I said I didn't speak Russian I wasn't actually just making it up.
john		Why?
nadia		I'm not asking you to marry me.
john		No. What? No. I know.
nadia		It's more like a date.
john		It's a long way to go for a date.
nadia		Tell me about it.
nadia		All that matters is to try...
nadia		 We can only try. Say it.
john		What does it mean?
nadia		Maybe you will find out.
nadia		Hurry. I'll wait for you here.
john		Right.
john		Is the flight full?
official		I'm sorry Sir. I believe the flight is closed.
john		Please check. Is it full? Please could you check.
official		You have excellent English.
john		Thanks.
official		How do you want to pay?
john		Cash.
police 1		Excuse me Sir...
police 2		Okay. Come with us now.
police 1		He doesn't speak English. He's epileptic or something.
police 2		Can he walk? Can you walk?
john		Kam. Kapsi. Schta.
nadia		My name's Sophia.
john		Sophia. Hello Sophia. Mine's still John.
sophia		Hello John.
woman's voice		Nadia!
woman's voice		Nadia!
****Dialogues from script :BlacKkKlansman.txt****

ron stallworth		I went to College.
ron stallworth		I have mixed feelings. CHIEF BRIDGES Would you call yourself a Womanizer? RON STALLWORTH No Sir, I would not.
ron stallworth		No Sir.
chief bridges		Do you drink?
ron stallworth		On Special occasions, Sir.
ron stallworth		Only those prescribed by My Doctor, Sir.
ron stallworth		I know but my Father was in The Military and I was raised up the Right way, Sir.
chief bridges		How are you with people, generally?
ron stallworth		Sir, they treat me right, I treat them right, like I already said I was raised...
chief bridges		...Have you ever had any negative...
ron stallworth		Would that happen...
ron stallworth		I know Jackie's Story, Sir.
ron stallworth		If I need to, yes, Sir.
chief bridges		I'll have your back but I can only do so much. The Weight of this is on You...and You alone.
ron stallworth		Cybill Shepherd. She was great in The Last Picture Show.
officer mulaney		Never saw it but what you think?
ron stallworth		She's a very good Actress.
officer mulaney		Y'know you want some of that.
ron stallworth		Yeah. Why's that?
officer mulaney		He could only want one thing.
ron stallworth		What would that be?
officer mulaney		You like acting dumb, Y'know.
ron stallworth		No, I just like my questions to be answered.
ron stallworth		While I've got you both here. Sirs, I'd like to be an Undercover Detective.
chief bridges		What Narcotics?
ron stallworth		Whatever Department works, Sir.
ron stallworth		I know, Sir but I think I could do some good there.
ron stallworth		Well, I'm young. I think there's a niche for me. Get In where I can Fit In.
chief bridges		Think a lot of yourself, don't cha?
ron stallworth		Just trying to be of help, Chief. Plus, I hate working in The Records room. Sgt. Trapp reacts knowing Ron shouldn't have said that about the Records Room. CHIEF BRIDGES looks at Ron, matter of fact.
chief bridges		Well, I think Records is a good place for you to start, Rookie.
ron stallworth		Chief, want me clean shaven?
chief bridges		Keep it. I like the look.
landers		Need a File on a Toad.
ron stallworth		No Toads here.
landers		Excuse me?
ron stallworth		I said, I don't have any Toads. I do have Human Beings and if you give me their names I can pull the Files.
landers		Heard you think you Hot Shit but you ain't nuthin' but a Cold Fart. Name's Maurice, Maurice Smalls...That respectful enough for you, Officer Toad.
ron stallworth		Hello. CHIEF BRIDGES  It's Bridges. You sleeping?
ron stallworth		Yes, Chief, I was. Just worked a Night Shift.
ron stallworth		Yes Sir, see you then. Thank You. Thank You.
flip		Rookie, you're late.
ron stallworth		Sorry, it won't happen again.
ron stallworth		The Nightclub?
chief bridges		No, Emmanuel Missionary Baptist Church!!!
ron stallworth		Born Ready.
ron stallworth		Any chance this thing Fucks Up? FLIP Fuck yeah.
ron stallworth		Then what?
jimmy		Just stick to The Game Plan.
ron stallworth		Which is?
flip		Improvise. Like Jazz. This isn't some Big Bust. We just want some Intel, that's it.
jimmy		What happens if someone offers you a Marijuana Cigarette?
ron stallworth		You mean a Joint?
jimmy		Yeah.
ron stallworth		"Soul Brother, I'm already High on Life. Can you Dig It?"
flip		And if someone pulls a Gun on you?
ron stallworth		You expecting that?
flip		Barrel of a 45's in your face, Finger on the Trigger, now what?
ron stallworth		Blood, get that Gun out my face. Peace Love and Soul.
flip		Gun is still in your face.
flip		Relax, we'll be outside, listening in.
ron stallworth		Can I order a Drink at The Bar?
jimmy		That's fine, just don't get Shit Faced.
flip		Got it?
ron stallworth		I got it. I'm gone.
ron stallworth		How are you doing, my Soul Sista?
ron stallworth		Indeed it is.
patrice		Have you heard Brother Kwame speak before?
ron stallworth		Who?
patrice		Kwame Ture.
ron stallworth		Actually, I haven't, I didn't know he changed his name.
patrice		Yes, after he moved to Africa. He took the names of Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and his Mentor Sekou Toure of Guinea to honor The Great Leaders.
ron stallworth		That's Heavy. Do you know how he got to Colorado Springs?
patrice		The Colorado College Black Student Union invited Brother Ture.
ron stallworth		I can dig it. I can dig it. You with The Black Student Union?
patrice		I'm The President.
ron stallworth		Right On. Right On.
patrice		The Black Student Union of Colorado College is honored to bring The Vanguard of Revolutionaries fighting for The Rights of Black People all over The World. Let's show some Black Love to The One and Only, The Former Prime Minister of The Black Panther Party, The Brother Man with The Plan who's stickin'it to the Man, put your Hands together my People... for Our Kwame Ture.
kwame ture		Thank you all for coming out tonight, My Beloved Sista's and Brotha's. I Thank you...
black mass		BLACK POWER!!! BLACK POWER!!!
kwame ture		Is Beauty defined by someone with a Narrow Nose? Thin Lips? White Skin? You ain't got none of that. If your Lips are Thick, Bite them in. Hold your Nose! Don't drink Coffee because it makes you Black!
ron stallworth		Right on!!! Right On!!!
ron stallworth		Brother Ture, do you really think a War between The Black and White Race is inevitable? Kwame pulls Ron in close toward his face. Too close.
kwame ture		Brother, arm yourself. Get ready. The Revolution is coming. We must pick up a Gun and prepare ourselves...Trust me, it is coming.
ron stallworth		I don't know what you have planned now but maybe I could buy you a Drink?
patrice		I'm waiting for Brother Kwame, I have to make sure he gets back safely to the Hotel and he's squared away.
ron stallworth		I can dig it.
patrice		Maybe, if it's not too late, I'll meet you at The Red Lantern. You know where that is?
ron stallworth		I do.
patrice		So I'll see you then.
ron stallworth		Cool. All Power to All The People.
patrice		Sorry I'm late...
ron stallworth		Say what?
patrice		Yeah, they knew Brother Kwame was in Town. Made us get out the Car. Pigs pulled us over for no reason. Total harassment.
ron stallworth		True?
patrice		Truth. Do Four Dogs have Four Assholes?
landers		All right everybody out the vehicle. Now!!!
kwame ture		My Name is Kwame Ture.
landers		I know you Black Bastards are holding. What you got in there some Weed, Pills, Heroin?
officer cincer		It's clean.
landers		You get this Black Panther outta' Colorado Springs before Sunrise. Hear ME??? Or you all go to Jail.
kwame ture		Black people were Born in Jail.
ron stallworth		Did you see the Officer's names?
patrice		I know I should have but the whole thing was so frightening... I didn't. Bro Pope, The Bartender sets the Drink down. Patrice takes a gulp, her hand shaking. Ron observes.
ron stallworth		I'm sorry.
chief bridges		What was the Room like?
ron stallworth		Folks were hanging on every word.
chief bridges		Sounds like he had them pretty riled up?
ron stallworth		But I'm not sure that means Black Folks were ready to start a Revolution.
chief bridges		What makes you think that?
ron stallworth		Nobody was talking about that. That wasn't the Mood. Everybody was Cool.
chief bridges		So let me get this straight. He told a Crowd of "Black Folks" to get ready for a Race War. That they were going to have to arm themselves and kill Cops. What about that?
ron stallworth		Yeah, he said that but I think that was just talk. You know, Rhetoric.
flip		That's what I thought too.
chief bridges		Thank God, Carmichael has left Colorado Springs. RON STALLWORTH Kwame Ture.
chief bridges		What?
ron stallworth		He changed his name from Stokely Carmichael to Kwame Ture.
chief bridges		I don't care if he changed his name to Muhammad Ali, he's still dangerous.
ron stallworth		Did you hear the Story Patrice told me about how the CSPD pulled over her and Ture?
chief bridges		No. We didn't hear that.
ron stallworth		Kwame Ture, Correct.
chief bridges		You getting pretty Chummy with her?
ron stallworth		Just doing my job, Chief. Undercover.
chief bridges		Yeah and it better not be Under the Cover Of The Sheets.
chief bridges		... you don't know what you would do, you just got here.
flip		Good work.
jimmy		Rookie.
chief bridges		Ron, let's take a walk.
chief bridges		I'm transferring you into Intelligence.
ron stallworth		What will I be doing, Chief?
chief bridges		Intelligence. Chief Bridges walks off. Ron stands there,Jacked!!!
pre-recorded message		You have reached The Colorado State Chapter of The Ku Klux Klan. Please leave a message... God Bless White America.
ron stallworth		Hello, this is Ron Stallworth calling. Saw your Advertisement in The Colorado Springs Gazette. I'm interested in receiving some Reading Materials. My Phone Number is 403- 9994. Looking forward to you returning my call. God Bless White America.
flip		Did I just hear you use your Real Name?
ron stallworth		Motherfucker!!!
jimmy		Yeah, Motherfuckin' Amateur Hour. What were you thinkin'?
ron stallworth		I wasn't.
flip		You dialed. Pick it up.
ron stallworth		The Organization?
ron stallworth		Since you asked- I Hate Niggers, Jews, Mexicans, Spics, Chinks but especially those Niggers and anyone else that does not have pure White Aryan Blood running through their Veins.
ron stallworth		...Every time I think about that Black Baboon putting his Filthy Black Hands on her White as Pure Driven Snow Body I wanna Puke!!!
ron stallworth		Looking forward to meeting you.
flip		Good Luck Ron with your New Redneck Friend.
ron stallworth		Well... they want to meet me First.
ron stallworth		I'll need another Undercover to go in my place.
ron stallworth		You think?
ron stallworth		Damn. OMITTED
chief bridges		I can't spare any Men.
sgt. trapp		I've looked over the Logs and it seems you can spare them.
chief bridges		Sgt. Trapp, Ron spoke to the Man on the phone. When they hear the Voice of one of my Guys, they'll know the difference.
ron stallworth		Why so, Chief?
chief bridges		Want me to spell it out? He'll know the difference between how a White Man talks and a Negro.
ron stallworth		What does a Black Man talk like?
sgt. trapp		Ron, I think what The Chief is trying to say is...
ron stallworth		...If you don't mind, I'd like to talk for myself, Thank You. How exactly does a Black Man talk?
chief bridges		You know... YOU KNOW!!!
ron stallworth		Chief, some of us can speak King's English and Jive. I happen to be fluent in both.
chief bridges		Ron, how do you propose to make this Investigation? RON STALLWORTH I have established contact and created some familiarity with The Klansmen over the phone. I will continue that role but another Officer, a White Officer, will play Me when they meet Face to Face.
chief bridges		...My Point Exactly!!!...
ron stallworth		Black Ron Stallworth on The phone and White Ron Stallworth Face to Face, so there becomes a combined Ron Stallworth.
chief bridges		Can you do that?
ron stallworth		I believe we can... With The Right White Man.
chief bridges		If anything happens to my Man there won't be Two Ron Stallworths. There'll be none.
flip		You're late.
ron stallworth		I'm sorry. It won't happen again.
jimmy		I heard that somewhere before.
flip		Hey, Jimmy when's the last time they let a Rookie head up an Investigation. Oh that's right, NEVER.
ron stallworth		Whereabout?
flip		Pueblo.
jimmy		What's that commute like?
flip		Jimmy, I'm glad you asked, straight-
jimmy		Long ride.
flip		What do we listen to?
ron stallworth		KWYD. Christian Talk in The Morning, although the Signal starts to cut out near Pueblo. On the way back I go for 102.7 to get my Allman Brothers Fix. Only I have to change every time that British Fag David Bowie pipes on.
jimmy		I love Bowie.
ron stallworth		Remember you've got to retain the details of what you share with them so I can be White Ron Stallworth.
flip		Jimmy, I always wanted to grow up to be Black, all my Heroes were Black Guys. Willie Mays...
jimmy		Basket catch.
flip		Wilt The Stilt...
jimmy		A record hundred points in the game. FLIP But my favorite is O.J.
jimmy		Love Fuckin' O.J. Orenthal James Simpson.
ron stallworth		Well, don't share your Love of The Brothers with these Guys. For you, it's The Osmonds.
flip		I get to play you but you don't get to play me. Jimmy, does that sound fair?
jimmy		Not to me. RON STALLWORTH Fair? I get to play you and Jimmy and all the other guys in the Station... Everyday.
flip		Walter Breachway.
ron stallworth		Become Walter's Friend, get invited back.
flip		Look at you. Is that it, Sir?
ron stallworth		I'm on the phone with The Klan, You see them in person...
flip		...And...
ron stallworth		...And you need to sound like my voice.
jimmy		Oh Boy.
ron stallworth		Just repeat after me.
flip		The Godfather.
flip		Look a'here, some people say we got a lot of malice. Some say it's a lotta nerve. CLOSE - RON STALLWORTH
ron stallworth		I saw we won't quit moving 'Til we get what we deserve.
flip		I saw we won't quit moving 'Til we get what we deserve.
ron stallworth		We've been buked and we've been scorned. We've been treated bad, talked about.
flip		We've been buked and we've been scorned. We've been treated bad, talked about.
ron stallworth		As Just as sure as you're born But just as sure as it take.
flip		As Just as sure as you're born But just as sure as it take.
ron stallworth		Two eyes to make a pair, huh.
flip		Two eyes to make a pair, huh.
ron stallworth		Brother, we can't quit until we get our share.
flip		Brother, we can't quit until we get our share.
ron stallworth		Say it loud. I'm Black and I'm proud.
flip		Say it loud. I'm Black and I'm proud. RON STALLWORTH Jimmy, join us.
ron stallworth, flip and jimmy		Say it loud. I'm Black and I'm proud. Say it loud. I'm Black and I'm proud.
jimmy		Don't forget to lose that Star of David around your neck.
ron stallworth		You're Jewish?
ron stallworth		It's Walter. Ron writes down The Truck's Plate
felix		Ron Stallworth? FLIP That's me. And you must be Walter.
felix		Name's Felix.
flip		I was told I'd be meeting with Walter Breachway.
felix		Change of plans, Mack. I'm gonna need you to hop in The Pickup.
flip		Okay, well how about I just follow you...
felix		...No Can Do. You come with me. Security.
felix		You for The White Race, Ron?
flip		Hell Yeah!!! Been having some trouble lately with these Local Niggers.
felix		Since The Civil War it's always trouble with Niggers. Walter said something about your Sister? FLIP Makes me Sick.
flip		But it's also the, like, camaraderie I'm looking for...with The Klan.
felix		Da Fuck did you say?
flip		Camaraderie...?
felix		No. The other word.
flip		The Klan...?
felix		...Not "The Klan." It's The Organization. The Invisible Empire has managed to stay Invisible for a reason. Do Not Ever Use That Word. You understand?
flip		I overstand... Right. The Organization.
felix		Check this Shit out... you're never gonna believe it.
flip		What?
felix		There's a Jig on our Bumper.
jimmy		He sees us. Back Off. Ron eases on the Gas.
felix		Let's be ready, case we gotta go and shoot us A Alabama Porch Monkey.
flip		Pull out what?
felix		Under the seat!!!
flip		Ready to go.
felix		That's right, Porch Monkey. Don't be Messin' with us...
flip		...The Organization. FELIX Not so fast, Buddy Boy.
ron stallworth		Just a Bar.
jimmy		Probably.
walter		Ron. Glad you could make it. Walter Breachway, Chapter President.
flip		I appreciate you inviting me out.
walter		I've been impressed with our phone conversations. I feel you have some fine ideas that could help The Cause.
flip		I meant every word I said.
flip		That right?
walter		It became my salvation. After I was shot and wounded by some Niggers. My Wife... Savagely Raped by a whole Pack of 'EM, and not a one went to Jail.
jimmy		Never happened. Ron cracks a smile.
walter		They're taking over. That's all you see on the TV Anymore. Niggers. Niggers selling Soap, Niggers selling Automobiles, Niggers selling Toothpaste, Niggers, Niggers, Niggers.
ivanhoe		Wasn't long ago them Sumbitches wasn't on no TV.
walter		You forgetting Uncle Ben and Aunt Jemima.
ivanhoe		Dang!!! You know, I gotta say I kinda like dem' Niggers...Rice and Pancakes. Ivanhoe shakes hands with Flip. IVANHOE  Name's Ivanhoe, by the way.
ron stallworth		Mad at Sanford and Son and Flip Wilson.
walter		All you get now is how we gotta' cater to them. We gotta' get us some "Minorities". Watch ya' mouth, don't say this, don't say that, be nice, they're not Colored...
felix		Negros...
ivanhoe		...Blacks...
walter		...Afro-Americans...
flip		...FUCK. How 'bout just Fuckin'? Niggers. Make it Fuckin' simple.
all		NIGGERS!!!
flip		I been saying this stuff for years.
felix		You ain't the only one.
flip		You don't know how good it is to hear someone that gets it.
ivanhoe		You know, Cross burnings. Marches and stuff so people don't Fuck wit' us. FLIP I'm tired of people Fuckin' with me.
walter		You come to the right place cuz' Nobody Fucks with us. How much you know about The History?
flip		Some...I could know more.
walter		We'll teach you.
ivanhoe		This year's gonna be big for us.
flip		How so?
ivanhoe		BOOM!!! We're gonna make Fireworks, yes we are...
walter		...Ivanhoe talking nonsense again. Kid can't hold his Beer fer Shit. The Organization is strictly Non- Violent...
ivanhoe		...Like dat Dead Nigger Martin Luther Coon.
flip		Gotcha.
walter		Say, Ron? Mind coming with me?
flip		Where to? FELIX You Undercover or something? You ask too many questions. Let's GO!!!
jimmy		Where they going?
ron stallworth		Lost the damn signal.
walter		Congrats you passed The Mustard.
flip		Now we're talkin'.
walter		Fill these out and Mail 'em to The National Headquarters. Once they send your Membership Card, you'll be able to participate in our Programs.
flip		Alcoa Can't wait.
ivanhoe		I like those Commercials. WALTER Imperial Tax to become a Member: Ten Dollars for The Year. Fifteen Dollar Chapter Fee. Robes and Hoods not included, that's Extra.
felix		Fuckin' Inflation.
flip		I can't thank you Brothers enough.
walter		Pleasure, is all ours.
felix		You're not a Jew, right?
flip		You trying to offend me?
felix		It's Protocol.
flip		'Course I'm no Stinkin' Kike.
walter		We gotta ask it, is all. I'm satisfied. How about you Guys?
felix		Smells Kosher to me.
flip		Stop fuckin' 'round. WALTER Felix, cut it out.
flip		You have me dressed like one of the Beverly Hillbillies for Chrissakes. I felt too Redneck for those Guys.
ron stallworth		They liked you.
flip		Except for that Felix Guy. Do not ride his Bumper like that! Two car lengths!
ron stallworth		You got The Papers? They want you to join.
flip		Technically they want you to join.
ron stallworth		They want a Black Man to join The Ku Klux Klan. I'd call that Mission Impossible. Double Success.
ron stallworth		Enough that we'd like to dig deeper. One of the Men discussed plans for a possible Attack...
flip		...I wouldn't give him that much credit. These Yahoos like to Boast.
ron stallworth		Either way, we're looking for full support from The Department.
patrice		The next day when we dropped Brother Kwame off at the Airport he told me The Black Power Movement needed Strong Sistah's like me to lead the fight against Capitalist oppression and The Politicians and Pigs who perpetuate it. His words almost made that whole Pig Nightmare worth while...
ron stallworth		I don't really use that word.
patrice		What word?
ron stallworth		Pigs.
patrice		What else would you call them?
ron stallworth		Cops... Police... PATRICE Bunch of Racist Cops on a Power Trip.
ron stallworth		So you think all Cops are Racist?
patrice		It only takes One to pull a Trigger on a Innocent Sister or Brother.
ron stallworth		He's got some good ideas. I don't agree with all of them but he's a smart Brother who's worth hearing.
patrice		Are you Down for The Liberation of Black People?
ron stallworth		Do we always have to talk about Politics?
patrice		What's more important?
ron stallworth		Do you ever take any time off from The Liberation of Black People?
patrice		NO!!! It's a Lifetime JOB!!!
patrice		And what did you say your J-O-B is?
ron stallworth		Kathleen Cleaver, I didn't?
patrice		Are You A Pig? RON STALLWORTH You mean A Cop?
patrice		You A Cop?
ron stallworth		NO I'm a Black Man who wants to get to know A Strong, Intelligent, Beautiful Sister.
ron stallworth		This is Ron.
ron stallworth		Allergies acting up again.
ron stallworth		I'm honored.
ron stallworth		Davis?
ron stallworth		Political Office? How so?
ron stallworth		...Keep going.
ron stallworth		America would never elect somebody like Devin Davis President of the United States of America?
connie		Ron! So nice to meet you. I'm Connie, Felix's Wife.
flip		Great to meet you.
connie		The Boys are in the Backyard.
connie		Sorry to interrupt. I have some Cheese Dip and Crackers.
felix		Make 'em remember who We Are and What We Stand For. We are The Organization.
connie		I read in The Gazette some Nigger named Carmichael held a Rally and there's some College Nigger Girl with the "Baboon Student Union" attacking Our Police. This Girl is Dangerous. Reminds me of that Commie Angela Davis. We need to shut her damn mouth.
felix		That'll be all. Love you Sweetie.
connie		One of these days you're going to need me to do something for you. Wait and See.
walter		How 'bout We focus on our Bread and Butter. The Next Cross Burning. Which, Flip, you'll be lucky enough to participate in if your Membership Card comes soon enough...
flip		...That'd be a tremendous Honor. Where?
walter		The Highest Hills get the most Eyes.
flip		Wow. This is really... something.
felix		Here's my favorite. Twelve Gauge.
felix		Indeed it is.
walter		Come on Man, this is just Straight-Up Offensive. We're talking about someone who's gonna be our Brother in a couple months. Is there a fuckin' Star of David around his Neck? Does Ron got a YA-MA-KA on his HEAD for Pete's sake?
flip		Where...uh...where ya takin' me? I told you already I'm not thrilled with you callin' me a Jew.
felix		Tough Titty.
walter		Felix, it ain't necessary, Man. This is how we lose recruits!
flip		What is this your Jew Den? This where you make your Candles? Lamp shades?
ron stallworth		Shit. He turns the ignition and drives forward. INT.   INT. DEN - FELIX'S HOUSE - DAY
felix		Lower your Arm right here.
flip		Felix, this is lame bullshit.
felix		Lame or not you're taking this Jew Lie Detector Test.
flip		Out of respect, I'm gonna play along with your Get Smart Bullshit, but I'm No Fuckin' Jew!!!
felix		Siddown.
felix		Let's warm up. What is the surname of your Biological Father?
flip		Stallworth.
felix		Let me see your Dick.
flip		You like pretty Dicks Felix?
felix		I hear you Jews do something Funny with ya Dicks. Some weird Jew Shit. Is your Dick circumstanced?
flip		You tryin' to suck my Jew Dick? Faggot.
felix		Who you callin' a Faggot, Jew?
felix		Y'know what I think?
flip		You think?
felix		I think a lot.
flip		What do you think about? FELIX I think this Holocaust stuff never happened.
flip		What?
felix		That's the biggest Jewish Conspiracy. 8 Million Jews killed? Concentration camps? Never happened. Where's the proof?
flip		Are you High?
felix		I don't get High. I drink.
flip		Haven't seen the Footage.
felix		Fake. Jews run Hollywood.
flip		Yeah, keep drivin' you Black Spearchucker!!! Piece a Shit Nigger!!!
felix		Almost got 'im.
flip		Felix, you still want me to take your Jew Detector Test!!!
felix		Everybody go Home NOW!!! Get Outta HERE!!! GO HOME!!!
ron stallworth		Is he gonna hear about it, Sarge?
flip		I didn't say it in there with Trapp but that Peckerwood had a Gun in my Face and he was an Ass Hair away from pulling The Trigger.
ron stallworth		And he didn't.
flip		But he could have and then I woulda been Dead... for what? Stoppin' some Jerkoffs from playing Dress up?
ron stallworth		Flip, it's Intel.
flip		I'm not risking my Life to prevent some Rednecks from lighting a couple Sticks on Fire.
ron stallworth		This is the Job. What's your problem?
flip		Ron, you're my problem.
ron stallworth		How's that?
flip		For you it's not a job, it's a Crusade. It's not personal nor should it be.
flip		Why should I?
ron stallworth		Because you're Jewish, Brother. The So-Called Chosen People. Flip gets pissed and flies up into Ron face. They are nose to nose.
flip		What?
ron stallworth		You're passing for a WASP!!! White Anglo Saxon Protestant, All-American Hot Dog, Cherry Pie White Boy. It's what some Light-Skinned Black Folks do, they pass for White.
flip		Of course it does.
ron stallworth		Then why you acting like you ain't got skin in the Game!
flip		That's my Damn Business!
ron stallworth		It's our Business.
ron stallworth		Good afternoon. My name is Ron Stallworth, calling from Colorado Springs. How are you today, Sir?
pleasant man		Quite well, Ron. What can I do for you?
ron stallworth		I'm calling because I desperately want to participate in my Chapter's Honorary Events but I can't until I receive my Membership Card.
ron stallworth		Thank you. Who am I speaking with?
ron stallworth		I'm sorry... did you just say you're Devin Davis?
ron stallworth		...Grand Wizard of The Ku Klux Klan? That Devin Davis?
ron stallworth		Really? National Director too?
ron stallworth		I'm honored to be speaking with you. I'm not afraid to say it...I consider you a True White American Hero. DEVIN DAVIS Are there any other kind?
devin davis		And I'm just happy to be talking to a True White American.
ron stallworth		Amen, Mr. Davis. Seems like there's less and less of us these days. Now about that Membership Card...
devin davis		...I understand the situation. We've been having some Administrative problems that have caused a backlog. ...Tell you what, Ron. I'll see to it personally that your Membership Card is processed and sent out today.
ron		Thank you, Mr. Davis. I can't express to you how much I appreciate this.
devin davis		The pleasure is all mine. I look forward to meeting you in person One Day and God Bless White America.
landers		Watch where you're going. You could get hurt like that Hot Shot.
ron stallworth		That Cop that pulled Kwame Ture over that night... was it Landers?
flip		How'd you know?
ron stallworth		I can smell em' a Mile away now.
flip		He's been a Bad Cop for a long time.
ron stallworth		Yeah?
flip		Does that kinda' Shit all the time. Few years ago, he allegedly Shot and Killed a Black Kid... he said he had a Gun. The Kid wasn't the type.
ron stallworth		Flip, why do you tolerate this?
flip		We're a family. Good or Bad. We stick together. You wanna be the Guy that Rats him out?
ron stallworth		Yeah, reminds me of another Group. Ron finished. Flip steps away buttoning his shirt.
walter		... and then you got what used to be a decent Bar, The Hide N Seek Room, turned into a Filthy Fag Bar overnight.
flip		Fuckin' Fags everywhere these days.
walter		They're trying to Colonize. First they get their own Bars, then they want Equal Treatment...
flip		...Forget Dem Fags... Some of these Guys Army-trained?
walter		A lot of 'em are. Fort Carson...
flip		I've not seen those Macs before.
walter		Steve and Jerry.
flip		Yeah, who are they?
walter		That's classified. Walter steps away leaving Flip to ponder the Two Mystery Men.
flip		Gezzus H. Christ!
felix		Helps with practicin' for Nigger Looters. Dem' Sum-bitches Run like Roaches when you Flip the switch in the Kitchen late at Night.
ivanhoe		Hey, Ron! Take my Forty-Five Auto wanna see what you can do. FELIX Maybe you'll get dat Nigger next time.
klansmen		Good Shot!!! Shit! Got that Coon Dead in The Ass! Nice One!!!
ivanhoe		That's one deaaaaaad Jungle Bunny!!!
felix		Where'd you learn to shoot like that?
flip		My Ole Man gave me a Toy Cap Gun when I was a Kid, been shooting ever since. Ivanhoe proceeds to teach Flip the Klan handshake.
ron stallworth		Bernie Casey's a Badd Brother.
patrice		Cleopatra Jones was the one. It's about time We see a strong Sister like that...
ron stallworth		...And Tamara Dobson played a Cop. PATRICE That was a Black Exploitation Movie. A fantasy. Real life's not like that. In real life there's no Cleopatra Jones or Coffy.
ron stallworth		You don't dig Pam Grier? She's Fine as Wine and twice as Mellow.
patrice		Pam Grier is doing her Thing but in real life it's just Pigs killing Black Folks.
ron stallworth		What if a Cop was trying to make things better.
patrice		From the inside?
ron stallworth		Yeah, from the inside.
patrice		You can't make things better from the inside. It's a Racist System.
ron stallworth		So just give up?
patrice		No!!! We fight for what Black People really need! BLACK LIBERATION!!!
ron stallworth		Can't you do that from the inside!
patrice		No! You can't. White Man won't let us.
ron stallworth		I know how that feels. I'm Two damn people all the time! PATRICE But you shouldn't be! We shouldn't have a War going on inside ourselves. Why can't we just be Black People?
ron stallworth		Because we're not there yet!
patrice		Well, I'm tired of waiting!
ron stallworth		Shaft or Superfly?
patrice		What?
ron stallworth		Pick one, Shaft or Superfly?
patrice		A Private Detective over a Pimp any day and twice on Sundays.
ron stallworth		Richard Roundtree or Ron O'Neal?
patrice		Richard Roundtree. Pimps Ain't No Heroes.
ron stallworth		Ron O'Neal isn't a Pimp. He's just playing one.
patrice		That image does damage to Our People.
ron stallworth		JESUS CHRIST!!! Give it a rest.
patrice		I can't you JIVE TURKEY.
patrice		Who was that?
ron stallworth		Nobody.
flip		Hey, sorry had to work late. How you guys doing?
felix		You got a Twin.
flip		What?
felix		You got a Twin.
flip		Twin what?
felix		A Twin-Twin and ya Twin is a NIGGER.
flip		My number's unlisted. Felix just continues to stare.
felix		Over on... Bluestem Lane.
flip		I don't live on Bluestem. I live off 21st Street...
felix		So you don't know that Nigger?
flip		Oh, that's that Nigger I keep in the woodpile.
felix		And y'know what? That loud mouth Black Student Union Bitch that's been in the paper complaining about the Police. She was there.
flip		That Fuckin' Cunt.
felix		Like to close those Monkey Lips permanently.
flip		Yeah, after I get em' 'round da Head of my Dick.
flip		Are you Fucking kidding me?
ron stallworth		What?
flip		You don't cross those lines. This is about an Investigation. Not a... Relationship.
ron stallworth		You're right, I'm messin' up. Hate to violate that Blue Wall of Silence.
flip		Nice one. RON STALLWORTH Is Patrice a Target?
flip		Maybe.
ron stallworth		We got Active Duty Soldiers from Fort Carson. Going to the CID with this.
flip		Walter's a General without an Army. Felix's Crew is stronger than him.
ron stallworth		Oh Hell yeah!!!
flip		RON STALLWORTH Member in Good Standing Knights of the Ku Klux Klan
ron stallworth		That's us The Stallworth Boys.
flip		Yeah, funny, but you didn't have psychopath staring at you asking where you lived.
ron stallworth		I called to warn you, but you must have already taken off.
flip		Ron, I wasn't raised Jewish. It wasn't a part of my Life. So I never thought much about being Jewish, was just another White Kid, didn't even have my Bar Mitzvah. No Chanukah for me. Christmas. In this job, you try to keep things at a distance. You put up a Shield so you don't feel anything... This shit is deep. When that Fuck Felix had me in that room and I kept having to deny my heritage...I have been passing. OMITTED.
ron stallworth		Where'd you find them? PATRICE I found this one on my Car. But they're all over The Neighborhood, too.
ron stallworth		It's Real.
patrice		This is intimidation.
ron stallworth		Clearly, this is about the Black Student Union and you.
patrice		Me?
ron stallworth		You've been outspoken about the incident with the Police when Brother Kwame was here.
patrice		So the next time they'll have a Burning Cross out Front.
ron stallworth		They're trying to get to you, like you said they want to intimidate make themselves feared. If you don't let 'em scare you. They got nothing. But keep your eyes open. Be Cool.
odetta		That's the problem we've been too Cool!
hakeem		Way too Cool!
ron stallworth		Maybe the both of you should call The Cops. HAKEEM How we know this ain't some of the KKK's Honky-Pig-Partners passing out this Shit!
ivanhoe		Soak the Wood in Kerosene, we light a Cig on a pack of matches. Gives us time to Beat It before The Cross catches Fire. Safeguard against CSPD.
flip		Must be quite a sight.
ivanhoe		The Best. You can see it for Miles. Freaks out The Jew Media and puts Niggers on their Nigger Toes.
flip		A lot of these Guys in The Army?
ivanhoe		Yeah, even got a few in Active Duty.
flip		Just finished my Second Tour in Nam.
ivanhoe		Oh yeah? Know anything about C-4?
flip		Enough to make shit BLOW UP. Flip stops talking. He might've revealed a bit too much.
ron stallworth		Send another one.
ivanhoe		Damn, that's The Second One. Pigs are out tonight.
felix		That makes Three Piggy Wiggys.
ron stallworth		Good job, Men.
devin davis		...I don't share this with many people, but My family had a Colored Housekeeper growing up. Her name was Pinky. She was probably the closest Woman to me other than Mother.
ron stallworth		That surprises me.
devin davis		I know. People think I hate Negroes. I don't and The Organization doesn't either.
devin davis		They just need to be with their own. That's what Pinky would say, she had no problem with Segregation because she wanted to be with her own kind.
ron stallworth		Sounds like she was a Mammy to you.
devin davis		She was. You ever see "Gone with the Wind"? Pinky was my Hattie McDaniel. She won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress.
ron stallworth		You were Scarlett and she was Mammy.
devin davis		That's right. When she passed away it was like we lost one of the Family. RON STALLWORTH A good Nigger's funny that way. In that sense they're like a Dog. They can get real close to you and when you lose em'. Just breaks your heart.
devin davis		Well said Ron.
ron stallworth		I knew a Nigger once.
devin davis		Didja?
ron stallworth		Yeah. Nigger lived across the street from us. I must of been Six or Seven. His nickname was Butter Biscuit.
devin davis		How'd he get that nickname?
ron stallworth		He loved his Mama's Butter Biscuits.
devin davis		Yum Yum!!!
ron stallworth		Me and Butter Biscuit played together everyday. One day My Father came home early from work and told me I couldn't play with him anymore because I was White and Butter Biscuit was a Nigger.
devin davis		That's rich.
ron stallworth		Ain't it.
devin davis		Your Father sounds like a Terrific Man.
ron stallworth		Thanks, Buddy. DEVIN DAVIS Well, you're an upstanding White Christian Man. I tell you this is why we need more people like us in Public Office. To get this Country back on Track.
ron stallworth		Amen.
devin davis		For America to Achieve our Greatness... again.
ron stallworth		Absolutely. Sure wish we had the chance to chat Face to Face.
devin davis		In due time, my friend, in due time. I'll be in Colorado Springs for your initiation...
ron stallworth		You'll be in Colorado Springs?
devin davis		You bet your Mayflower Society Ass I will.
ron stallworth		That would be quite an Honor.
ron stallworth		I'll have to think about this. My father is very ill and he lives in El Paso. I won't have the time.
walter		I think it's time for some new Blood to get in here. I'm planning to step down as your President.
felix		We just met this Guy. IVANHOE He just walked in off the street. FELIX Let me ask a question. Is there anybody here that is willing to put their Neck on the Line for Ron?
walter		I will vouch for Ron.
flip		It's a Big Honor but I can't accept. Problem is, what you Good Men need is a President who will be constant, on CALL Day In, Day Out. I'll be back and forth between here and Dallas.
ron stallworth		El Paso, Flip, El Paso...
walter		Dallas? I thought it was El Paso.
flip		Did I say Dallas?
walter		You sure did.
felix		Ron which One is it?
ivanhoe		Make up your mind.
flip		Dallas is where my Plane layover is. El Paso is where my sick Father is.
ivanhoe		Dallas, where they killed that Nigger Lover Kennedy. FELIX Where you learned that?
ivanhoe		I can read.
flip		I just hope my Father isn't cared for by some Texicano Spic Nurse.
walter		We'll pray for ya Pop's health.
ivanhoe		And Big Spic Teets!!!
ron stallworth		I'm anxious to meet you and it will be something I share with my Family for Generations to come.
devin davis		I'm eager to meet you too, Ron.
ron stallworth		Say, Mr. Davis... I just have to ask. Aren't you ever concerned about some Smart-Aleck Negro calling you and pretending to be White?
devin davis		No, I can always tell when I'm talking to a Negro.
ron stallworth		How so? DEVIN DAVIS Take you, for example. I can tell you are a pure Aryan White Man by the way you pronounce certain words.
ron stallworth		Any examples?
devin davis		Take the word "are". A pure Aryan like you or I would say it correctly... like "are". Negroes pronounce it "are-uh".
ron stallworth		You are so White... Right. I want to thank you for this Lesson because if you had not brought it to my attention, I would never have noticed the difference between how We talk and how Negroes talk.
devin davis		That's what I've heard, Ron. You have a nice day.
ron stallworth		You too, Sir. God Bless White America. Ron hangs up, laughing. He calls to Sgt. Trapp:
ron stallworth		Not at all. Just... finishing a Meal.
flip		I don't carry it on me All The Time.
felix		I got ya covered.
flip		Won't happen again.
flip		What's gonna happen next Sunday?
felix		The War is gonna come to us.
flip		Fuck ya'.
ivanhoe		Looks like we got ourselves another Soldier.
felix		Just make sure that when you're at The Steakhouse, you've got your new friend with Ya.
ivanhoe		And give it a name.
felix		About what?
connie		Killin' 'em.
felix		Never think twice about Killin' Niggers. CONNIE Won't be able to take it back.
felix		They're da' first of many Niggers that must die, Honey Bun.
connie		I know. It's just... becoming so real. It's always seemed like a dream.
felix		I know. It's just so beautiful. We're cleansing this Country of a backwards Race of Monkey's. First the Spooks then the Kikes.
connie		I love when you do that, Honey.
felix		My Old Man always told me good things come to those who wait.
connie		Thank you for bringing me into you Life. For loving me like you do and giving me a purpose, direction.
felix		Y'know, this will be the Shot heard around The World. CONNIE The New Boston Tea Party. FELIX Honey Bun, one day, The Great Historians will write about us like that. They'll say we were the Patriots that saved America. You and me. We turned the Tide. Saved our True White Race... it fact, saved an entire Nation and brought it back to its Glorious Destiny.
connie		In a way, we're The New Founding Fathers.
felix		Yes we are... Martha.
connie		Indeed we are... George. The Couple Kiss each other passionately.
ron stallworth		Agent... Y? EXT. OLD ABANDONED BREWSTER'S FACTORY - DAY
agent y		Names of Chapter Members?
ron stallworth		What is this about?
agent y		Two Names on your list work at NORAD.
ron stallworth		The Two Mystery men. Steve and Jerry?
agent y		Their real names are Harry Dricks and Kevin Nelson. Two Clowns with Top Security clearances. These Klansmen are in charge of monitoring our Safety.
ron stallworth		Klan...?
agent y		You won't see this on the News. For obvious reasons but I thought it might be of interest to you.
ron stallworth		If you know about an attack, I need to know when.
agent y		You're the one with the Impressive Investigation.
ron stallworth		But... can't you, The FBI pitch in?
agent y		Federal Bureau of Investigation?
felix		Flip, I'm starting to trust you. I'm gonna tell you something none of our Brothers know. My lil' sister married a Nigger. Now I got a lil' Nigger Niece and a lil' Nigger Nephew. Jesus Christ, The World's going to Hell in a Handbasket! Do me a favor, don't tell nobody. Cuz' if you do, I'm gonna have to shoot you dead. I'm serious.
flip		Thanks for sharing.
ron stallworth		You can hate me all you want to, just promise me you won't go to The Protest.
patrice		I'm going. We're going. What are you talking about?
ron stallworth		I can't say specifics but today, The Klan is planning an Attack.
patrice		Then we have to tell The People.
ron stallworth		Not an option. PATRICE What's wrong with you?
ron stallworth		No one can know while it's an Active Investigation...
patrice		Active Investigation? And pray tell how do you know all this? You a Cop?
ron stallworth		I'm not a Cop.
patrice		What are you, then?...
ron stallworth		...I'm a Undercover Detective. I've been investigating The Klan.
patrice		Fuckin' KKK? Ron Stallworth, you lied to me. Is that even your real name?
ron stallworth		Ron Stallworth is my first and last name. Today's not the day...
patrice		I take my Duties as President Of The Black Student Union seriously. What is this all about?
ron stallworth		All the good it does. You could sit in the middle of Nevada Avenue and set yourself on Fire and The Klan will still be here.
patrice		I'd be doing something. Unlike you.
ron stallworth		Unlike Me? Don't think because I'm not wearing a Black Beret, Black Leather Jacket and Black Ray Bans screaming "KILL WHITEY" doesn't mean I don't care about my People.
ron stallworth		Patrice...
patrice		...Answer the question. Were you Undercover The Night we met?
ron stallworth		I'm a Undercover Detective for The Colorado Springs Police Department. It's my J-O-B.
patrice		House Niggers said they had J-O-B-S too. You disgust me. OMITTED
butch		It's off.
ron stallworth		The March?
butch		Yeah.
ron stallworth		What's going on?
butch		You'll know soon enough.
flip		Why?
ron stallworth		They're used to that.
flip		And there's been nothing more about explosives?
ron stallworth		No.
ron stallworth		What's more important than preventing an Attack?
chief bridges		There are very credible threats to Devin Davis's Life. Ron, I'm assigning you to be Security Detail for Davis.
ron stallworth		I don't think that's a wise decision... LANDERS ...Davis needs protection. There's no one else available.
chief bridges		Ron, it's Nut Cracking Time. Put your Personal Politics aside.
flip		Chief, it's not about that and you know it. Devin Davis and Ron have been speaking over the phone, several times. If he recognizes his voice... or if any of The Klansmen do, it could compromise Our Entire Investigation.
ron stallworth		A Clusterfuck.
chief bridges		Correct me if I'm wrong but didn't you boast that you were fluent in both English and Jive?
landers		Answer The Chief!
ron stallworth		Man, who you think you're talking to. You've been trying to sabotage me since Day One.
chief bridges		Gentlemen.
landers		Why you getting so worked up, Boy?
ron stallworth		Who you callin' Boy?
walker		Listen up. First, The Primary Target.
walker		Be careful with that.
felix		Understand?
connie		I understand.
walker		All you have to do when you've placed it...
walker		...And Barbecue Niggers.
walker		Plan B.
felix		Can you handle it, Honey?
connie		You can count on me. I've been waiting to do my part.
walker		Lovebirds. Get a Hotel Room.
ivanhoe		Can I feel it?
walker		No!!! No feel!!!
ron stallworth		I'm Mr. Davis' Security Detail.
ron stallworth		As you may know, there have been several credible Threats against your Well-Being.
walter		Da Heck's going on here? DEVIN DAVIS There are Threats on my Life. This Detective has been assigned as my Bodyguard.
ron stallworth		Let me be clear, Mr. Davis: I do not agree with your Philosophies. However I am a Professional and I will do everything within my means and beyond to keep you safe.
devin davis		I appreciate your Professionalism.
walter		Sorry for the Extra Security today. Can't be too careful. Ready to meet Mr. Davis?
walter		Mr. Davis, our newest recruit, Ron Stallworth.
devin davis		Ron, it's my pleasure to finally meet you in person.
flip		You as well.
felix		What's that doing here?
ivanhoe		Fuckin' Cop assigned to guard Mister Davis. Isn't that the livin' Shits?
devin davis		Everybody, it is time.
felix		You stay here. Ya hear?
jesse		I'm Jesse Nayyar, Colorado's Grand Dragon. I welcome you all to this Sacred Ceremony.
devin davis		My Brothers in Christ, Nobel Prize recipient and Co-Creator of the Transistor and my dear friend, William Shockley, whose Scientific work ushered in the Computer Age, has proven through his Research with Eugenics that each of us have flowing through our veins the Genes of a Superior Race. Today, we celebrate that Truth.
patrice		I am extremely honored today to introduce our speaker for today Mister Jerome Turner. Mr. Turner was born in 1898 in Waco, Texas.
jerome turner		It was a nice spring day, Waco, Texas May 15th, Nineteen Hundred and Sixteen. CUT BACK TO:
devin davis		God give us real Men, Courageous, who flinch not at Duty. Men of Dependable Character, Men of Sterling Worth. Then Wrongs will be Redressed and Right will Rule The Earth. God give us True White Men!
jerome turner		I was working at the Shoe Shine Parlor. After the verdict, a Mob grabbed Jesse, wrapped a Chain around his Neck and dragged him out the Court House.
devin davis		Ron Stallworth. Are you a White, Non- Jewish American Citizen?
flip		Yes.
devin davis		Yes, what?
flip		I am a White, Non-Jewish American Citizen. CUT TO:
devin davis		Are you in favor of a White Man's Government in this Country?
walter		Please everyone rise as The Grand Wizard leads us in a toast.
devin davis		Look around, today we are privileged to be among White Men such as yourselves, Real Warriors for The Real America, the One Our Ancestors Fought and Died for.
felix		I just want to say how Honored I am to be in your presence.
walker		He's a Cop.
felix		Who?
walker		That Guy.
felix		Ron?
walker		No, the other Guy.
felix		Ron's a Cop?
walker		No, his name is Phillip but his nickname is Flip.
felix		Who's Phillip?
walker		Who's Ron, that's Phillip.
felix		What the Fuck are you talking about? WALKER That guy was the Cop that sent me away to Prison for Armed Fucking Robbery.
felix		What!
walker		Yeah, he's a Fuckin' Pig.
felix		What's his name?
walker		Phillip Zimmerman.
felix		Isn't that a Jew name?
walker		I don't know... probably.
felix		So Ron Stallworth is a Fucking Jew.
walker		Coulda' been worse.
felix		He's a Nigger.
felix		Not now, I'll find the moment.
ron stallworth		...Mr. Davis, a favor to ask. Nobody's gonna believe me when I tell them I was your Bodyguard.
devin davis		I don't see any harm in that. Hey Jesse... why don't you get in here too?
ron stallworth		You mind taking it, Sir?
devin davis		Nigger, What the Fuck did you just do?
ron stallworth		If you lay one Finger on me, I'll arrest you for assaulting a Police Officer. That's worth about Five Years in Prison. Try me. See if I'm playing.
flip		Boy you get ya' ass out NOW!
felix		Detective Stallworth! Ron JERKS his arm away heading to the exit.
ron stallworth		Attention all Units. Be on the lookout for a White Pickup with a "White Pride" Bumper Sticker. License
ron stallworth		Request Backup. FREEDOM HOUSE.
felix		Ron, I believe you know my friend.
flip		No, I don't believe we've ever met.
walker		It's been a few years.
flip		No, sorry, I can't place you.
devin davis		Did you Guys go to School together?
walker		No, I went to a Private School in Leavenworth, Kansas.
felix		Isn't that where the Prison is? WALKER Matter a fact it is.
felix		You know something about that. Don't you, Flip?
josh		There's an emergency phone call in the Lobby for a -- Felix Kendrickson.
felix		Don't say another word. I'll be right back. Flip.
connie		Jesus! They've got Cops everywhere here! Somebody tipped them off.
felix		All right, calm down, we planned for this. We'll go to Plan B. Okay?
connie		Okay... Plan B. FELIX You can do this. All right. I'll be right there. CONNIE All right... Love You.
walker		Excuse me Mister Davis.
devin davis		What was all that about? And why did he keep calling you Flip?
flip		We were in Prison together. Years ago. It's an inside joke.
devin davis		I hope everything's all right?
flip		Yeah, but I think he may have violated his Parole. Excuse me... Flip stands watching Felix and Gang exit the Steakhouse.
ron stallworth		Where's Patrice???
hakeem		Patrice and Odetta took Mister Hopkins to his Hotel.
ron stallworth		CSPD! Stay where you are!
ron stallworth		I'm a Cop! I'm a COP!!!
connie		He attacked me! That Nigger attacked me, he tried to Rape me! Arrest him!
ron stallworth		I'm Undercover!!!
ron stallworth		It's in my pocket. CONNIE You gonna believe this lying Nigger or me?
ron stallworth		I'm a Cop goddammit! She's got a Bomb! She's a Terrorist!
felix		Gimme' a detonator.
ron stallworth		THAT WOMAN HAS A BOMB SHE'S TRYING TO BLOW THAT HOUSE UP!
ivanhoe		There she is! Do it!
ron stallworth		PATRICE!
patrice		Ron???
felix		You're Dead Black Bitch.
ron stallworth		RUN!!! RUN!!! RUN!!!
connie		NO!!! FELIX!!! NO!!! FELIX!!!
flip		Hey, you fucking idiots!!! We're undercover.
ron stallworth		YOU'RE LATE.
omitted		INT. DIVE BAR - NIGHT
ron stallworth		Jeezus Christ.
patrice		What?
ron stallworth		Your Boyfriend.
patrice		Oh My God.
landers		Who's da' Soul Sistah, Stallworth? You been holding out on me.
patrice		You don't remember me do you?
landers		Oh Yeah, Yeah, you looked good that night but you look even better now.
patrice		How often do you do that to Black People?
landers		Do what?
patrice		Pull us over for nothing. Harass us. Put your hands all over a Woman in the guise of searching her. Call us everything but A Child of God.
landers		I don't know what you're talking about.
ron stallworth		It's like what I told you. He just likes taking advantage but in the end he's All Hat and No Cattle.
landers		Let me tell you both something, I've been keeping you People in line in this City for years. What I did to your Girl that night, I can do to any of you, Anytime, Anyplace. That's my prerogative. I can even Bust a Cap in ya Black Ass if I feel like it and nuthin' will be done about it. Get it? Wish the both of you got blown up instead of Good White Folks.
ron stallworth		Ohhh, I get it.
patrice		Oh, I totally and completely get it.
ron stallworth		Good.
flip		Oh, We got it! We got it all!
ron stallworth		You get it, Chief?
chief bridges		Oh, I really, really get it. You're under arrest for Police Misconduct, Sexual Misconduct and Police Brutality.
flip		There he is... Man of the Minute.
ron stallworth		... not an Hour?
ron stallworth		Told you, Ron was born ready.
flip		Born ready is Ron.
ron stallworth		Sarge. We did good.
flip		Hey... early promotion?
chief bridges		Again, I can't commend you enough for what you've achieved. You know there was not a Single Cross Burning the entire time you were involved?
ron stallworth		I'm aware.
chief bridges		But all good things must come to an end...
chief bridges		Budget Cuts.
flip		Budget Cuts?
chief bridges		Inflation... I wish I had a choice. My hands are tied. Besides, it looks like there are no longer any tangible Threats...
ron stallworth		...Sounds like we did too good a job.
chief bridges		Not a Bad Legacy to leave.
ron stallworth		Excuse me?
flip		This is total Horseshit.
chief bridges		We prefer that The Public never knew about this Investigation.
ron stallworth		If they found out...
chief bridges		...Cease all further contact with The Ku Klux Klan. Effective immediately. That goes for Flip too. Ron Stallworth...
ron stallworth		This is some Fucked up Bullshit. CHIEF BRIDGES Take a week off. Go on vacation with your Girlfriend. We'll hold down The Fort until you get back. Get you another assignment...Narcotics.
ron stallworth		I'm sorry we didn't get to spend more One-on-One time together.
devin davis		Well, that tragic event. I had just met those Fine Brothers in the cause.
ron stallworth		Our Chapter is just shaken to the core. And poor Connie not only does she lose her Husband but she's facing a healthy Prison Sentence.
devin davis		My God. And then there was that one Nigger Detective who threatened me. RON STALLWORTH Goddamn Coloreds sure know how to spoil a Celebration.
devin davis		Christ. You can say that again.
ron stallworth		Can I ask you something? That Nigger Detective who gave you a hard time? Ever get his name?
devin davis		No, I...
ron stallworth		...Are-uh you sure you don't know who he is? Are-uh you absolutely sure?
ron stallworth		Affirmative.
patrice		Have you handed in your Resignation as a Undercover Detective for The Colorado Springs Police Department?
ron stallworth		Negative. Truth be told I've always wanted to be a Cop...and I'm still for The Liberation for My People.
patrice		My Conscience won't let me Sleep with The Enemy.
ron stallworth		Enemy? I'm a Black Man that saved your life.
patrice		You're absolutely right, and I Thank you for it.
american terrorists		YOU WILL NOT REPLACE US!!! JEWS WILL NOT REPLACE US!!! BLOOD AND SOIL!!!
****Dialogues from script :Black_Dahlia.txt****

voice		Bleichert! Bleichert!
voice over		I already knew him by reputation, had our respective records down pat: Lee Blanchard, 43-4-2 as a heavyweight, formerly a regular attraction at the Hollywood Legion Stadium.
lee blanchard		Code three, Bleichert!
voice over		And he knew me, Bucky Bleichert, light- heavy, 36-0-0, ranked tenth by Ring magazine in 1937 fighting no-name opponents in no-man's-land division.
lee		To the halls of Tripoli, shitbirds.
bucky		You come all the way down here to roust--
lee		 Habla Ingles, Tomas?
lee		Tom here's my ninth hard felon of the month. Six weeks he'll be sucking gas. In three years I'll be working Central Warrants. Jewboy Deputy D.A. over there wets his pants for fighters. Promised me the next spot he can wangle.
bucky		 Impressive.
lee		 Wanna hear something more impressive? My first twenty fights were stumblebums handpicked by my manager. My girlfriend saw you fight a couple times over at the Olympic. Says maybe you could take me.
bucky		Whatta we do about the Mex?
lee		We'll take 'em in the morning.
bucky		You'll take him.
lee		He's half yours, partner.
bucky		He's all yours. And I'm not your partner.
lee		 Someday.
rookie		Yep, three years in the Canal Zone. Nothin' but skeeter bites and drunk fights over three-dollar skank tail...
rookie		...fights over three-dollar skank tail...
bucky		Somethin' up, Tommy?
tom		You, that's what.  You know Lee Blanchard over at Central Warrants?
tom		His partner's toppin' his twenty and goin' for early retirement. Word is the felony D.A.'s lookin' for a bright boy to fill the spot. Christ knows why but it's down to you and Johnny Vogel for the spot.
bucky		His old man Fritzie's a Central Dick.
tom		 But who'd look better when they bring back the boxing team, eh Buckaroo?
voice over		Warrants was local celebrity as a cop. Warrants was plainclothes without a coat and tie, romance and a mileage per diem on your civilian car. Warrants was going after the real bad guys and not rousting winos and wienie waggers in front of the Midnight Mission.
voice over		I told myself I didn't care.
secretary		Officer Bleichert.
lee		 Gentlemen, Bucky Bleichert. Bucky, Chief Thad Green, Deputy DA Ellis Loew.
chief green		Read this aloud, Officer. It's running in Sunday's Times.
bucky		"Before the war, the City of the Angels was graced with two local fighters, born and raised a scant five miles apart, pugilists with styles as different as fire and ice. Lee Blanchard was a bowlegged windmill of a leather slinger--
chief green		Skip down to the fire and ice part.
bucky		 "Mr. Fire and Mr. Ice never fought each other, but a sense of duty brought them together in spirit, and both joined the Los Angeles Police Department." Blanchard cracked the baffling Boulevard-Citizens bank robbery case in 1939 and captured thrill-killer Tomas Dos Santos; Bleichert served with distinction during the '43 Zoot Suit Wars--"
chief green		Skip to the end.
bucky		"Both men made great sacrifices to serve their city, and on Election Day, voters are going to be asked to do the same thing--vote on a five million dollar bond proposal to upgrade the LAPD's equipment and provide for an eight percent pay raise for all personnel. Keep in mind the examples of Mr. Fire and Mr. Ice. Vote "Yes" on Proposition B."
chief green		Whattya think?
bucky		Subtle.
ellis loew		Prop. B's looking like a loser right now. But if we can drum up some publicity we may he able to get it passed in the '47 Special. We need to build up morale in the department. Impress voters with the quality of our men. Wholesome white boxers are a big draw, Bleichert. You know that.
lee		Fire and Ice.
loew		Ten rounds. The Academy Gym. Three weeks from now. Right before the election. All the gate to charity. After that, we bring back the interdivisional boxing team. Wholesome fighters.
lee		Wholesome.
chief green		Are you in, Bucky?
lee		It's not like you'll last the ten rounds anyway.
bucky		I'm in.
loew		I'm betting on great things from you, Bleichert. And if I don't miss my bet we may be colleagues soon.
bucky		Uh, yes sir.
lee		Bucky I'd like you to meet Kay Lake.
bucky		Hello.
fay		I saw you fight a couple times. You won.
bucky		I always won. You a fight fan?
kay		Lee used to drag me. I was taking somme art classes so I'd sketch the boxers.
lee		Made me quit fighting the smokers. Didn't want me doin' the "vegetable shuffle."
bucky		I'll try not to hurt you.
lee		Sure make Loew happy.
bucky		He's got money on me, I gather?
lee		Seems that way.
bucky		And if I win I get Warrants?
lee		Seems that way.
bucky		What do you think of all this, Miss Lake?
kay		For moral reasons I hope the LAPD gets ridiculed for perpetrating this farce. For financial reasons I hope Lee wins. And for aesthetic reasons I hope you both look good with your shirts off.
bucky		Luck short of winning.
lee		You, too.
kay		Luck, Dwight.
voice over		The 77th Street lieutenant tapped as official LAPD bookmaker had Lee as an early 3 to 1 favorite...
bucky		Papa?
dolph		Guten tag, Dwight.
bucky		Speak English, papa.
dolph		Englisch Schiesser! Amerikan Schiesser!
bucky		Say something, Papa. Get me mad. Tell me how you can fuck this place up so bad in one month.
dolph		Du, Dwight? Du?
bucky		Speak...English. Papa, please.
bucky		...He's had another stroke. If you could just come by and clean the place up and keep an eye on him for week or so...a hundred dollars is fine. No more than ten days. I promise. I do. Thank you.
voice over		He was better than I thought. It made what came next easier.
pete		So...I'm surprised but I'm not so surprised. I hear you been lookin' good. Better'n people think.
bucky		I'm not bettin' on me, Pete.
pete		 Then as a friend I feel it's my duty to tell you this: you better make it look good.
bucky		Knockout between rounds eight and ten.
pete		Dragna's got a guy really sold on you. Even money. Best you're gonna get.
bucky		Thanks, Pete.
pete		Luck.
bucky		Short of winning?
pete		Luck.
voice over		I'd almost finished the Police Academy when the background check turned up my father's German-American Bund membership. Pressured by the FBI goons to confirm my patriotism, I gave the Alien Squad Sam Murakawa, a guy I'd grown up with, in order to secure my LAPD appointment.
voice over		The old fuck never knew any better. Never knew what he cost me. Or Sammy, who'd died at Manzanar. I was a good fit in the snitch's jacket and with a little alteration I slipped easily into the whole suit.
kay		At least he looks good with his shirt off.
bucky		Where's your sketch pad?
kay		I was never very good. Ended up with a degree in History. Masters. Lee's fight money paid for it.
bucky		Education's an expensive habit to kick.  He shouldn't have quit fighting.
kay		I asked him to. Besides, catching animals gave him a sense of order. You have a girlfriend, Dwight?
bucky		Saving myself for Rita Hayworth.
kay		 We're not getting married if that's what you're wondering.
bucky		Why not? Shacking's against the regs. Probably cost him a stripe.
kay		I have to go, Dwight. Good luck tomorrow night.
bucky		You didn't answer my question--
kay		 Lee and I don't sleep together, Dwight.
voice over		With no lead on the two escaped men, the heist quickly went from page one to page five. Two weeks later...
voice over		One of Lee's snitches fingered Bobby DeWitt, a greasy little pimp with a yard long rap, as the brains behind the bank job.
pete		Well?
bucky		He'll catch on soon enough.
voice over		Hey. Canvasback!
lee		You gonna hide in there another week? Ain't you bored yet?
bucky		Gettin' there.
lee		Wanna work Warrants with me?
bucky		What?
lee		Harrell's been callin' to tell you. You been hibernating--
bucky		But I lost. Loew's deal--
lee		Don't you read the papers? The bond issue passed yesterday. Want the job, partner?
voice over		Mister Fire. Mister Ice. The hero and the snitch.
tierney		 Officer Bleichert, the men of Central Dicks, Homicide, Ad Vice, Bunco, et cetera. I'm Captain Jack Tierney. You and Lee are the white men of the hour, so I hope you enjoyed your ovation. You won't get another one until you retire.
russ millard		 Russ Millard, homicides. Wife and kids thank you for the raise, Officer.
harry		 Y-y-y-yes.  Th-th-thanks Officer B-B- Bleichert.
ellis loew		Officer Bleichert. Welcome to Central Warrants--
bucky		The proposition passed, sir.
ellis loew		Yes but some of your patron's lost money. Play things smarter here. Don't blow this like you blew the fight.
lee		Ready to roll, canvasback?
bucky		Why'd you really quit fighting?
lee		 Benny Siegel bought out my contract, scared off my manager. Said he'd get me a shot at Joe Louis if I'd take two dives for him. I said no, joined the Department 'cuz Jew syndicate boys won't kill cops. Anything else?
bucky		 One more. What are we doin' here?
lee		While you were dancing with Ellis at muster I checked Maynard Coleman's KA's on the bulletin and recognized the name of a fence. Think he tends bar here...
lee		Bruno Albanese?
bruno		Who wants to know?
lee		Police officers, Bruno. Let's make this fast so I don't have to watch you eat.
bruno		Never seen 'em before.
bruno		Versailles apartments. Sixth and St. Andrews.
bucky		Right there!
bucky		Police officer. You're under arrest.
voice over		Let go of him! Let go of him!
boy		Let go a my daddy! Daddy!
lee		They got here fast.  The confession.
koenig		 He confessed. Kiddie porks and the burglaries. Fritzie says we're all getting commendations.
vogel		Ellis loves the kid angle.
lee		You talk to Ellis?
vogel		He's only "Ellis" to lieutenants on up, Blanchard.
lee		Least I don't call him "kike".
vogel		 C'mon, Billy.
lee		Shitbirds.
harry		Russ says good collar today.
lee		You like pot roast?
lee		Don't say anything to Kay about DeWitt. It'll upset her.
bucky		You takin' bribes, partner?
lee		Fight stash.
kay		Hello, Dwight. Glad you could make it.
fay		Fairy tale come true, isn't it?
bucky		Hm?
fay		The house. You and Lee partners. Fairy tale.
bucky		Can't say I believe in fairy tales.
kay		Then you've never really had to. Lucky man.  Lee! Dinner!
lee		A toast...To Proposition B!
bucky		To the Bleichert/Blanchard rematch! Bigger than Louis/Schmeling!
kay		To fairy tales!
bucky		 To...us!
lee		Goin' into politics, Ellis? Give us a quote.  "The only thing to fear is fear itself."
ellis loew		Here's the man to fear.
bucky		Give us the good news. He's in LA and actin' uppity?
ellis loew		Witnesses made him at a stickup near Leimert Park over the weekend. Pistol- whipped an old lady. She died about an hour ago.
russ millard		Anything common in the sex beefs?
ellis loew		Negro girls. Young ones. All the complainants have been colored.
lee		Seeya in Leimert Park.
ellis loew		Sergeant Blanchard? Try not to kill the man. I'd like to do it in court.
voice over		From November through the New Year, Lee and I captured a total of eleven hard felons, eighteen traffic warrantees and three parole and probation absconders...
voice over		After tours of duty, Lee and I would go to the house and find Kay. Sometimes she made dinner for us, other times the three of us would go dancing, or see a flick.
lee		This grand tour stuff's for shit. I'm callin' in some favors.
lee		Got a tip. Snitch a mine says he's shacking with some poon in a crib near Slauson and Hoover.
bucky		It's all colored down there--
lee		We fuckin' roll.
lee		Hopheads. Let's shake 'em for an address or a name.
white hophead		What the---Blanchard?
lee		Shut up, shitbird.
bucky		Partner!
lee		Bucky duck!
detective		Thank you for your time, Officer. And your police work, as well.
bucky		He knew one of the guys. Baxter Fitch. Busted him once for loitering. Sort of liked the guy.
kay		Oh baby. Oh babe.
lee		Leave me alone! You'll never fucking understand--
bucky		He knew one of the guys.
kay		Bobby DeWitt gets out in a week, Dwight. We're on edge. He swore at the trial he was going to kill Lee.
bucky		We can take care of Bobby DeWitt.
kay		Lee's scared. You don't know Bobby.
bucky		I know as much as I need to know.
lee		Rise and shine partner!
bucky		Lee? You okay?
lee		Sure. Ran Mulholland at a hundred and ten. Played house with Kay all day yesterday. Feel like doing some police work?
bucky		Keep going.
lee		Junior Nash's got a fuck pad on Norton and Coliseum.
lee		Okie trash.
bucky		Lee.
lee		Is that Millard and Sears?
russ millard		Before this gets out of hand let's put the kibosh on something. If this gets a lot of publicity we're going to get a lot of confessions. So we keep some things quiet. This girl was disemboweled. You keep this information to yourselves. Not your wives, not your girlfriends, no other officers.
bucky		Nash is renting a room in that building over there.
russ millard		Blood on the premises?
bucky		No. This isn't him.
russ millard		The lab'll be the judge of that.
bucky		Hey. Junior Nash, remember?
lee		He didn't do this.
bucky		No. He beat an old woman to death. That's why he's our priority warrantee.
lee		Not anymore.
bucky		This ain't ours, partner--
lee		 It is now, partner.
officer		 Have you heard female screams...
bucky		 ...anyone discarding women's clothing?
lee		 ...seen anyone in the lot on 39th...
bucky		You were supposed to meet me at the fights tonight, remember?
lee		Priority. Remember.
bucky		Priority for the Bureau. Not for us.
lee		Nice white girl gets snuffed. Gotta show the voters they did the right thing passing the bond issue. It's a showcase. It's A-plus, Buck. We don't miss this.
bucky		We've had enough headlines for the week.
lee		With or without you, partner.
bucky		I heard you.
officer		Confessors.
koenig		He didn't do it.
bucky		 Blanchard?
officer		In with Loew. And reporters.
ellis loew		...and the heinous nature of this killing makes it imperative to catch this fiend as soon as possible. A number of specially trained officers, including Mr. Fire and his partner Mr. Ice...
bucky		You got us detached?
lee		Slow and easy, Bucky. First I gave Loew a memo saying Nash blew our jurisdiction--
bucky		You did what?
lee		It's all right. The APB still stands. We've got the pad staked. He's covered.
lee		Jesus, Bucky.
coroner		On gross pathology, we have a female Caucasian between sixteen and thirty. Cadaver is presented in two halves with bisection level with the umbilicus.
russ millard		Is it...all right to smoke, doctor?
coroner		She's not going to mind.
lee		 Bingo.
coroner		Questions?
russ millard		What's your best guess?
coroner		Here's what she wasn't. She wasn't raped, she wasn't pregnant, dried semen indicates voluntary intercourse within the last week...She took what I'd call a gentle whipping in the last ten days...In terms of the nitty-gritty...She was probably tortured with a knife for thirty- six to forty-eight hours before death. The cause of which is either the mouth wound or more likely she was beaten to death with something like a baseball bat.
lee		What about her insides?
coroner		They came out after death. Then I'd say he drained the blood from the body and washed it clean, probably in a bathtub.
lee		Did the guy know anything about medicine or anatomy?
coroner		Maybe. Probably not a surgeon type--but that doesn't rule out veterinary training, biological training, or my Pathology for Beginners class at UCLA. Has she got a name yet?
russ millard		Elizabeth Short.
coroner		 Russell, when you get the son of a bitch who did this to her, give him a kick in the balls and tell him it's from Frederick D. Newbarr, M.D. Now all of you get out of here, I've got a date with a jumper suicide in ten minutes.
captain jack		Cops popped her in '43. Santa Barbara. Underage drinking. Other than that she's clean. Four sisters. Parents divorced. Father's here in LA. Hear he sold some old portrait photos of her to the Herald.
russ millard		How many confessions so far?
captain jack		Eighteen.
russ millard		Double that by morning. More if Loew got the press excited with his purple prose.
loew		 I'd say my prose fits the crime, Lieutenant.
russ millard		Too much publicity is a hindrance, Ellis. If you were a policeman you'd know that.
ellis loew		 Captain have you sent men to talk to the victim's father?
captain jack		Not yet, Ellis.
ellis loew		How about Vogel and Koenig?
captain jack		Aaah, Russ, who do you think we should send?
cleo short		Cops, huh?
bucky		I'm Detective Bleichert, Mr. Short. This is Sergeant Blanchard. We'd like to express our condolences for the loss of your daughter.
cleo short		I know who you are. Neither of you'da lasted a round with Gentleman Jim Jeffries.  You wanna hear my alibi?
lee		Since you're so anxious to tell it.
cleo short		Johnny on the spot at my job. Twenty- seven straight hours. Refrigerator repairman. Twenty-seven straight and the last seventeen overtime. Call my boss. He'll alibi me up tighter than a popcorn fart, and that's air tight.
bucky		When was the last time you saw your daughter?
cleo short		Betty came west in '43 with stars in her eyes. I promised her three squares and a five-spot if she kept the house tidy.
bucky		Was that soldier her boyfriend?
cleo short		They were all her boyfriends! Not so ugly and wearing a uniform, can't go wrong there. Betty believed in quantity before quality.
lee		You calling your own daughter a tramp?
cleo short		Got five daughters. One bad apple ain't so bad.
bucky		Any names, Mr. Short?
cleo short		Tom, Dick, Harry. Don't matter.  Said she was looking for movie work but...just paraded the Boulevard in those black get-ups of hers.
lee		Jesus fuck. We just got handed the entire U.S. Armed forces as suspects.
bucky		Flip to see who writes it up?
lee		I'm staking Nash's pad for the night. See if we get any strange drive-bys at the murder sight. Do me a favor and drop in on Kay. She's worried about me.
bucky		She's a smart woman.
kay		Hi, Dwight.
bucky		How'd you know it was me?
kay		Lee stomps, you tread lightly.
bucky		Lee's--
kay		Let me guess...Lee's up all night-- probably on Benzedrine again--working that poor girl's murder--
kay		You're worried about him. And he's worried about me.  But who's worried about you? Is that left for me?
bucky		No need for that.
kay		For such a cautious man you're quite a hardcase.
bucky		It's just...He's done a lot for me.
russ millard		Thank our friend Bevo Means at the Herald. Bevo's painting Betty and her black dress like some actress in that Alan Ladd movie, The Blue Dahlia. Should triple our confessions.
bucky		Great.
bucky		I think I want to go back to Warrants.
russ millard		No dice. You're a bright penny and I want you here.  Betty's last known residences and KA's. Go to University Station and pick up Bill Koenig. Fritzie's sick. Keep Bill on a tight leash, and you write the report because Billy's practically illiterate.
bucky		Lieutenant--
russ millard		Call me Russ and get out of here.
bucky		How do you want to play this, Sarge?
koenig		Fritzie usually does the talking and I stand back up.  Muscle job?
bucky		Let's try talk job.
bucky		Miss Saddon?
sheryl		You the driver from RKO?
bucky		Police.
sheryl		If this is about those jaywalking--
bucky		It's about Elizabeth Short.
sheryl		I did all this on the phone this morning. Nine thousand questions about Betty's nine thousand boyfriends and I don't remember any of the names. Can I go now? The extras truck is due any minute.
bucky		How about you sit dawn and answer my questions or I bust you for the reefer you flushed.
sheryl		That's Betty's other place. DeLongpre and Orange.
bucky		She moved around quite a bit. You know why? Was somebody threatening her?
sheryl		Betty's problem wasn't enemies. It was too many friends.
bucky		I've gathered that. Let's change the subject.
sheryl		How 'bout "the world of high finance"?
sheryl		 I'm in mister.
bucky		Congratulations. What about Betty?
sheryl		Maybe once. Maybe not. 'Round Thanksgiving she showed up bragging about gettin' her big break...Had one of those viewfinders around her neck? But who knows where she really got it. Betty had a tendency to--
bucky		...stretch the truth?
sheryl		Lie.
bucky		Your ride's here--
koenig		What'd the cooze say 'bout me?
koenig		I'm bored.
bucky		This'll just take a minute.
koenig		I'm gonna take those two guys outside. Maybe they knew the cooze--
bucky		I'll handle 'em Sarge--
koenig		No! I'm gonna do it!  Now what do I roust 'em about?
bucky		I dunno. Ask 'em anything. Alibis. See if Betty ever engaged in prostitution...
marjorie		...Betty had this gift, you see. She was so sweet and eager to please...a bit dumb, maybe. But she'd do anything to be liked, become whatever you wanted her to be. She'd walk like you, or talk like you...but she wasn't...she was still her.
bucky		Did she ever tell you she was in a movie? Sometime around November?
marjorie		Sure. She had this viewfinder and showed it around to all the guys. Said it was from the director. A co-starring role.
bucky		Did she say what it was?
marjorie		Once she said it was for Fox. Another time Paramount. I think she was just fibbing. You know, for the boys.
bucky		Do you remember the names of any of the guys?
marjorie		Don and Harold--sitting outside. She dated both of 'em once or twice. Other than that...I just...didn't really pay attention to who she was with.
bucky		What is it? You can tell me.
marjorie		Well...Right before she moved out...l saw her and Linda...
bucky		Linda Martin?
marjorie		Yeah. Her and Linda Martin--talking to this older woman up on the Boulevard. She had a man's suit and short hair like a man...Only that one time...
bucky		Are you saying the woman was a lesbian?
koenig		Them guys talked. Said the stiff peddled her twat when she got strapped bad. I called it in. Mr. Loew said to keep it zipped cuz it don't look as good.
bucky		Take their statements, Bill. I've got a little more here.
marjorie		That's her. God...She's only fifteen.
bucky		 Lorna Martikova. Omaha, Nebraska. Runaway. When'd you see her last?
marjorie		This morning. I told her I'd called the police to come talk to us about Betty. Was that the wrong thing to do?
bucky		You couldn't have known.
koenig		 They didn't do it.
bucky		No shit Sherlock.
elizabeth short		Elizabeth Short. Betty. Beth...Elizabeth.
elizabeth short		Sorry. Can we try it again?
elizabeth short		Oh.
voice over		I used a Warrant cops special prerogative and issued an APB on Lorna Martikova aka Linda Martin. I wrote up my day's report, omitting Marjorie Graham's lead on the old dyke. I didn't need Ellis Loew quashing it along with the skinny on Betty as the part-time prostie.
kay		Hi, Dwight.
lee		 It ain't a random job. Horseshit. Guy who did this...hated her. Bad. Wanted the whole goddamn world to know. Babe, you took pre-Med, whattya think? Mad doctor?
kay		Lee, Dwight's here.
lee		Oh, hey partner. Bucky listen to Kay. Babe's got ideas. Good stuff--
kay		This kind of theorizing's nonsense, but I'll give you a theory if you'll eat something to calm yourself down.
lee		Theory on, teach.
kay		Well. Just a guess. But maybe there were two killers. Because the torture cuts are crude, while the bisection and the cut on the abdomen are neat and clean...
voice over		Three days 'til Bobby De Witt hit LA. Three days since we killed four men.
bucky		Administrative Vice Squad?
bartender		Beverage Control?
bucky		 LAPD Homicide.
bartender		Who got snuffed?
bucky		Seen either of 'em?
bartender		Huh. The Dahlia's a sister?
bucky		You tell me.
bartender		Never seen her 'cept in the papers. And the little schoolgirl twist I've never seen. We don't truck with underaged stuff. Capice?
bucky		Capice when your girls tell me that.
bucky		Black Dahlia.
bartender		No shit.
bucky		What about this girl?
bartender		Never seen her.
bucky		Don't you fuckin' lie to me. She's fifteen fucking years old. So you come clean or I slap a contributing beef on you, and you spend the next five years servin' raisinjack to bulldykes in Tehachapi.
bartender		A couple times. Two, three months ago. Just to cadge drinks off the sisters, though. She liked boys, I'm sure. And not the Dahlia. Never.
announcer		We interrupt our regular broadcast to bring you a bulletin. A major suspect in the investigation of Elizabeth Short, the raven-haired beauty known as the Black Dahlia, has been captured! Red Manley, a Huntington Park hardware salesman and one of the last men to be seen with the Dahlia, was captured early this morning. Currently being held at Hollenback Station--
lee		Dahlia left San Diego six days before we found her. Dago cops got a witness puts her in a tan Dodge with a partial plate ident. Finally got a cross-check that matched on Red here.
millard		Like I said, Robert. We're doing this because you didn't come forward.
red manley		I've told it three times now. I didn't want my wife to know I was chipping her.
millard		But you said you didn't chip on her. Betty wouldn't put out. That's no reason to hide from the police.
red manley		I dated her down in Dago. I slow-danced with her. It's the same thing as chipping.
millard		And you wanted to fuck her, didn't you?
red manley		I wanted...to test my loyalty to my wife.
millard		Come on, son!
red manley		I wanted to fuck her. Yes.
millard		But she cock-teased you.
red manley		She said she had her period--
red manley		Said the father of her child would be a combat veteran--
millard		And you were in the Army band. You get angry?
red manley		I told you. I didn't kill her.
millard		You drove her back to LA with you on...December tenth? And dropped her at the Biltmore Hotel?
red manley		I've told it how many ways? How many more ways do you went to hear it?
bucky		Welcome back to earth, partner.
lee		Your fault, really. After you left Kay slipped me a Mickey. Slept for seventeen hours.
bucky		Your fault for buying her all those chemistry classes.
lee		Learn anything interesting?
bucky		No.
lee		 Now you'll see why Russ keeps Harry around.
lee		 Russ's only rule. No actual hitting.
harry sears		You wanted some fresh gash, and you thought Betty was easy. You came on strong and that didn't work. You offered her money. She told you she was on the rag, and that was the final straw. You wanted to make her bleed for real--
red manley		No no no. Not Betty--
harry sears		You plied Betty with drinks, got her to talk about her old boyfriends and came on like a pal, like the nice little corporal willing to leave Betty to the real men, the men who saw combat--
red manley		No--
harry sears		You took her to a toolshed, maybe one of those abandoned warehouses out by the old Ford plant in Pico-Rivera. There was some twine and lots of cutting tools lying around, and you got a hard-on...
red manley		No no no--
harry sears		Yes, Reddy, yes. You thought of every girl who said "I don't suck", every time your mommy spanked you, every evil eye you got from real soldiers when you played your trombone in the army band.
red manley		No--
red manley		No--
harry sears		That's what Betty had to pay for wasn't it?
red manley		No, please! God as my witness!
harry sears		God hates liars!
red manley		I didn't hurt her--
harry sears		Tell God!
red manley		The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want...
russ millard		Good report yesterday, Bleichert.
bucky		Thanks.
russ millard		What next?
bucky		You send me back to Warrants?
russ millard		Wrong again. But keep going.
bucky		Canvass around the Biltmore. If Red dropped her off there on the tenth maybe we can start reconstructing the last days before she got snatched.
russ millard		Bright penny. You're doing well, Bucky. Run with the ball.
bucky		All I know is you should keep an eye on Loew and his boys. I didn't put it in my report, but Betty sold it outright when she needed money bad enough, and Loew's been trying to keep it kiboshed so it'll look better if he ever takes it to trial.
russ millard		 You calling your boss an evidence suppressor?
bucky		And a grandstanding son of a bitch.
russ millard		You're a brighter penny than I thought.  Betty sightings. Wilshire Division. I need smart pennies to eliminate the phonies from the tip sheet.
bucky		What are you gonna do?
millard		Keep an eye on the evidence suppressor son of a bitch and his minions to make sure they don't try to coerce a confession out of that innocent man in the holding tank.
voice over		Barflies. Daytime juicers...The longer I listened the more they talked about themselves, interweaving their sad tales with the Black Dahlia, who they actually believed to be a glamorous siren headed for Hollywood stardom...
bucky		Oh Jesus.
kay		It's sick and it's insane! After everything...And all that might happen--
lee		I need this, babe. You know it. I'll rent a room for the stuff but--  You tell her Bucky. Reason with her.
bucky		She's right, Lee. You've pulled at least three misdemeanors here. It's out of control--
kay		Dwight, you can be so gutless sometimes.
bucky		Slumming, Miss Sprague?
madeleine		I am now. Daddy spying on me again?
bucky		I'm a policeman.
madeleine		Well that's a new one--
bucky		Homicide.
madeleine		 This is all a fluke. I met them at LaVerne's last fall. Betty maybe one time. Linda a couple. She'd come in to cadge a drink or a meal off a sister.
bucky		You sleep with either of them?
madeleine		No. Just cocktail lounge chitchat.
bucky		Are you lez?
madeleine		 Ye might say I take it where I can find it, laddie.
bucky		Why'd you rabbit last night?
madeleine		 Mister, my father is Emmett Sprague. The Emmett Sprague. He built half of Hollywood and Long Beach, and what he didn't build he bought. Imagine the headlines. "Tycoon's Daughter Questioned in Black Dahlia Case--Played Footsie with Dead Girl at Lesbian Nightclub". Get the picture?
bucky		In Technicolor.  What did you talk about?
madeleine		Linda talked about her boring boy back in Hicktown, Nebraska, or wherever. Betty talked about the latest issue of Screen World. Hollywood dreams, the sad nine yards.
bucky		Betty ever tell you about a movie she did? Show you a viewfinder? Anything specific?
madeleine		On a conversational level they were right down there with you, only they were better looking.
bucky		You're cute.
madeleine		You're not. Look, I'm tired. You want to hear my alibi so I can end this farce and go home?
bucky		That's all anyone ever wants to volunteer: the alibi. Go ahead.
madeleine		My family and I were at our house in Laguna from Sunday through Thursday along with our live-in servants. If you want verification, call Daddy. But be discreet about where we met.
bucky		I don't need your cash if that's what you're saying.
madeleine		Ah, Laddie...'S not what I'm saying...
bucky		Convince me.
madeleine		Tomorrow night. Eight o'clock. My address is 482 So. Muirfield.
bucky		I know the address.
madeleine		Not surprised. Pick me up. Like a gentleman.
bucky		Bucky Bleichert.
madeleine		I'll try to remember.
lee		Yes, ma'am. I understand. A werewolf and Red Manley. Oh no. The werewolf is Red Manley. Yes that would be more efficient...
bucky		So...You smooth things with Kay?
lee		Yeah. I rented a room for the stuff at the El Nido Motel. Nine scoots a week. Chump change if it makes her feel good.
bucky		De Witt gets out tomorrow, Lee. I was thinking maybe I should lean on him. Get Fritz Vogel and Koenig to do it--
lee		Blanchard. Homicide.
bucky		Bleichert. Homicide.
voice over		I logged forty-six phone tips, about half of which were reasonably coherent. Lee left early, dodging any talk about De Witt. Ellis Loew stuck me with writing up the summary report, most of which concerned the numerous dead end leads, bogus confessions and three hundred new Dahlia sightings per day. It left me gut certain of one thing:
elizabeth short		Boston. Massachusetts.
elizabeth short		Two years.
elizabeth short		Well, you know, when in Rome...  Why? Do you want a girl with an accent?
madeleine		Look. I hate to pull this, but Daddy has heard about you. He insisted you stay for dinner. I told him we met at that art exhibit at Stanley Rose's Bookshop, so if you have to pump everybody for my alibi, be subtle. All right?
bucky		Sure.
madeleine		 That's Balto. The paper is the LA Times for August 1, 1926. Balto was bringing in the paper when Daddy's accountant told him he'd made his first million. Daddy wanted to consecrate the moment so he shot him. Here we go--
madeleine		Bucky Bleichert. May I present my family. My mother, Ramona Cathcart Sprague. My father, Emmett Sprague. My sister, Martha McConville Sprague.
bucky		A pleasure, Mr. Sprague.
emmett sprague		Saw you fight Mondo Sanchez. Boxed the pants off him. Another Billy Conn you were.
bucky		Thanks.
emmett sprague		Mondo gave a good show. What ever happened to him?
bucky		Died of a heroin overdose.
emmett sprague		Too bad. Shamed his family.  Speaking of families--
ramona		 Madeleine says nice things about you.
madeleine		Daddy can we eat? Bucky and I want to catch a nine-thirty show.
emmett sprague		Dig in, lad. Hearty fare breeds hearty people. Haute cuisine breeds degenerates.
martha		I want to draw Mr. Bleichert, Daddy.
emmett sprague		You're in for a cruel caricaturing, Bucky. Maddy's my pretty one, but Martha's my certified genius.
bucky		German.
emmett sprague		A great people, the Germans. Hitler was a bit excessive, but mark my words that someday we'll regret not joining forces with him to fight the Reds. I killed a lot of your countrymen during the war.
martha		Did you meet Balto out in the hallway?
bucky		Very realistic.
emmett sprague		An old friend stuffed him. We were in the Scots regiment together. Georgie Tilden. He wanted to work in the flickers.
bucky		So when did you come here?
emmett sprague		1920. Hollywood was a cow pasture, but the silent flickers was booming. Georgie got work as a lighting man, and me building houses. Georgie got me introduced to Mack Sennett and I helped him build that housing project he was putting up--Hollywoodland-- underneath that godawful sign.
bucky		I always loved the Keystone Kops.
emmett sprague		Old Mack knew how to squeeze a dollar dry, he did. He had extras moonlighting as laborers and vice versa. I used to drive 'em over to Hollywoodland after twelve hours on a Keystone Cops flicker and put in another six hours by torchlight. Even gave me as assistant director credit a couple times, so grateful he was for the way I squeezed his slaves--
ramona		Did you know, Mr. Bleichert, that Ramona Boulevard was named after me?
bucky		No Mrs. Sprague, I didn't.
ramona		When Emmett married me for my father's money he promised my family that he would use his influence with the City Zoning Board to have a street named after me. But all he could manage was a dead-end block in a red light district in Lincoln Heights. Are you familiar with the neighborhood, Mr. Bleichert?
bucky		I grew up there.
ramona		Then you know that the Mexican prostitutes expose themselves out of windows to attract customers. I hear many of them know Mr. Sprague by name--
madeleine		I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
martha		 Mr. Bleichert?
madeleine		I'm so...sorry. Don't hate my family-- don't--they're not so bad--
bucky		Not them, me. Do me. Be with me.
bucky		Well. I think you kept your name out of the papers.
madeleine		Until we announce the wedding?
bucky		Your mother would love that.
madeleine		She's a hypocrite. She takes pills the doctor gives her, so she's not a hophead. You know how Daddy really made his money?
bucky		How?
madeleine		He bought rotten lumber and abandoned movie facades from Mack Sennett and built houses out of them. He's got firetraps all over LA registered to phony corporations...His "good friend" George? Disfigured in a car crash while running Daddy some errands. Daddy throws him scraps now--odd jobs tending some rental property--
bucky		You don't have to tell me this--
madeleine		I want to. I like you Bucky.
bucky		I like you, too.
madeleine		Bucky, I didn't tell you all about Betty Short.
bucky		Jesus--
madeleine		Don't be mad at me. It's nothing. I just don't want to lie to you.
bucky		What is it?
madeleine		Last summer I was bar-hopping a lot. Straight bars. I heard about a girl who looked like me. I got curious and left notes at a couple places: "Your lookalike wants to meet you", things like that. I left my number. She called. That's how I met her at LaVerne's with Linda.
bucky		And that's all of it?
madeleine		Yes. That's all of it.
bucky		Then be prepared, babe. There's fifty cops out there combing every bar in town looking for Dahlia info. You could be headed for the papers no matter what.
madeleine		Serve my family right.
bucky		You don't mean that.
madeleine		No. I don't.
bucky		Tell me something. Why'd you want to meet Betty Short?
madeleine		I've worked pretty hard to be loose and free. But the way people described Betty. It sounded like she was a natural.
bucky		How do you mean?
madeleine		Hmmm...She was this poor girl...Came from nothing...But then she carried nothing with her, either. I don't know...when you're rich sometimes you romanticize the poor...
bucky		I wouldn't know.
linda martin		I'm an emancipated minor and if you touch me without a matron present I'll sue you!
linda martin		 Please, mister...My...my parents.
russ millard		...and you don't recall any of the names Betty went out with last fall?
linda martin		They were just pickups.
russ millard		No one who would do her harm?
bucky		You made the casting rounds together. Ever get any movie work?
linda martin		No.
bucky		So what about the film can?
linda martin		It's...a movie.
bucky		A dirty movie?
russ millard		You have to tell us the whole thing, sweetheart. So think it through.
linda martin		I was...cadging at a bar in Gardena. This Mexican man - Raoul or Jorge or something - starting talking to me. I thought I was pregnant, and I was desperate wicked bad for money. He said he'd give me two hundred dollars to act in a nudie film.
bucky		Was this around Thanksgiving?
linda martin		After Betty...After I read about Betty...I went looking for him in Gardena. He was about to go back to Mexico and I conned him out of a print.
russ millard		Where was that?
linda martin		I don't remember. On Aviation somewhere.
russ millard		Why would you do that?
linda martin		A Black Dahlia stag film? I thought...I could sell it if I had to.  It was...a collector's item.
russ millard		And he willingly gave you a copy of the film? For nothing?
linda martin		No. Not for nothing.
russ millard		Whattya think?
bucky		I think she's covering on the Mex angle. Maybe she knows him and doesn't want him taking a smut rap. Maybe he's white. The TJ stuff is sound, though. I'd detach Meg Caulfield from Wilshire Clerical to play cellmate for a day.
russ millard		Bleichert you are a very bright penny today.  Well. Looks like it's blue movie night at City Hall.
lee		 Gettin' any?
chief horrall		Whattya think, Russ? This got anything to do with the girl's murder--
russ millard		Long shot, Chief. Harry and I are headed down to TJ tonight. The Mex doesn't play as the killer. But maybe he showed it to someone--
lee		Who gives a fuck if he didn't kill her! I've sent Boy Scouts to the green room for less than this!
lee		Did you see her face, Bucky? Did you see?
bucky		Yeah. I did, partner. I did.
ellis loew		Goddammit, Blanchard! I got you Warrants. You're my man, and you made me look like a fool in front of the two most powerful men in the Department. If you weren't Mr. Fire you'd be suspended from duty already. You've gotten personally involved in the Short case--
bucky		 Mr. Loew, it's not just Betty Short--
ellis loew		Shut up, Bleichert.  You're back on Warrants as of tomorrow. Report to me at 0800 with letters of apology for Green and Horrall. For the sake of your pension I'd suggest you grovel.
lee		I want to go to TJ--
ellis loew		Blanchard!
ellis loew		You've been skating around all morning, Bleichert. Vogel and Koenig went to Tijuana an hour ago so I need you to check out a radio car and get out there.
bucky		Yes, sir.
ellis loew		And if you see that phantom partner of yours, tell him this no-show's gonna cost him three days pay.
bucky		It's me. You want to get together?
bucky		I'll pick you up in forty-five minutes.
bucky		I have an apartment, you know.
madeleine		Smile at me. Look soft and sweet.
buck		They picked up Linda Martin yesterday. She had a stag film of her and Betty Short playing lez. Spooky stuff.
madeleine		Did she mention me?
bucky		No. And I checked through the case file. There's no mention of that note-leaving number you pulled.  Babe, I'm withholding evidence for you. It's a fair trade for what I'm getting, but it still shakes me. Is there anything you haven't told me about Betty and Linda?
madeleine		Sugar, Betty and I made love once, that one time we met last summer. I just did it to see what it would be like to do it with someone who looked like me and--
bucky		Jesus Christ.
madeleine		Bucky that's it, I swear. Please stay--
radio dispatcher		Code four all units at Crenshaw and Stocker. Two dead, suspect dead, Raymond Douglas Nash, warrant number--
bucky		Blanchard!
lee		I beat up a wall. Penance for Nash.
bucky		Not good enough.
voice over		Losing the first Bleichert-Blanchard fight got me local celebrity, Warrants, and close to nine grand in cash; winning the rematch got me a sprained wrist, two dislocated knuckles and the rest of the day off. Whoever said winning isn't everything got that part right.
kay		 We're famous, Dwight.
bucky		Notorious, maybe. Where's Lee?
kay		I haven't seen him since you beat him up.
bucky		He's in trouble, you know.
kay		I don't want you coming over here just to sleep an the couch again.
bucky		Kay. Lee--
kay		You know Dwight? Fighting, cops, guns. To most people--that's the scary stuff. Not everything else.
bucky		Short of winning?
kay		Luck.
bucky		Thank you very much.
harry sears		Checked for the smut pad. Goose egg. Peddlers--double goose egg--
russ millard		Bucky. Blanchard's in Tijuana. A border cop spotted him hobnobbing with a bunch of rough-looking Rurales last night.
bucky		 That was County Parole. Bobby DeWitt bought a bus ticket at the Santa Rosa depot this morning. San Diego. Transfer Tijuana.
voice over		Back in LA, Linda Short let slip that her "Mex" was actually a local named Walter Wellington, who copped to making the film but quickly provided the cops his alibi for the Dahlia's missing days.
voice over		Not that this stopped Loew and his boys from rousting spics all over town for a possible Dahlia frame-up. The circus was becoming a farce.
ellis loew		We can't do that! Wellington told Tierney he made the pic--
bucky		Lee's down here and so is Bobby De Witt.
ellis loew		Fuck Blanchard. He's suspended.
vogel		You know what, kid? I got a soft spot in my heart for light heavyweights.  I'll drive. You look like shit.
dewitt		Cops, huh? Well at least you're American. Never thought I'l be glad to see you guys.
vogel		Why start now?
vogel		Lee Blanchard's here in TJ, and you came here flush out of Big Q. That's a goddamned strange coincidence and I don't like it. I don't like you and I don't like being down in this rat-infested country when I could be home with my family.
dewitt		Ain't seen Blanchard since my fuckin' trial.
vogel		Do not use profanity with me, and address me as sir.
dewitt		Man o Manieschewitz, what a laugh. Lee beauty gotta be scared of me 'cause of how I flapped my trap at trial, but all I know is what I read in the papers. Maybe I was thinkin' revenge, maybe talkin' trash to my cellies, but when Lee beauty killed them niggers--
vogel		Bobby boy I do not like Sergeant Blanchard but he is a fellow officer and I will not have syphilitic scum like you defaming him. Now you risked a parole violation for a trip down here.
dewitt		 I came down to cop some heroin and move it back to LA. I'm meeting a guy, Felix Casco, at the Gardena Motel. Please. Don't hurt me no more. Please.
vogel		 I'm gonna call Ellis.
bucky		Finish up with you and Blanchard.
dewitt		Sir, all that's between me and Blanchard is that I fucked this cunt Kay Lake--
bucky		How long--
vogel		I let Bobby boy go so we could tail him to his pal. But he blew his tail while you were catching up on your beauty sleep, which is too bad for him.
vogel		The spic's Felix Casco, a known dope trafficker. Maybe it was other dope scum, maybe Lee, maybe it was God. I say let our Mexican colleagues handle their own dirty laundry and we go back to LA and find the son of a bitch who sliced the Dahlia.
kay		I spent the morning with Internal Affairs. I told them...everything I knew. I gave them so much...and in the end it didn't seem like anything at all.
bucky		He'll came back, Kay. I'm sure of it.
kay		You don't know anything, Dwight. But that's what I like about you.
bucky		Kay--
kay		I've been offered a job. Teaching sixth grade at Fairfax Primary. With Lee gone now--
bucky		He's coming back.
bucky		Lee.
agent		...okay, yeah. So I got her name from a producer friend of mine. Met her in a bar...
voice over		I wanted to believe it was all about Lee. Tracking Lee through her...through the files he had collected.
hooker		...the other girls and me, we helped her out once in a while. Throw her a trick if she needed dough...But she was no pro.
voice over		But the deeper into her I got, the more I understood the detective's old saw: any dick worth his suit always takes a side: the perp or the vic.
voice over		Most cops'll tell ya...one day you wake up and you're in the head of the killer...Angry. Powerful. In control. You're the perp.
betty short		No...Please...
voice over		Few cops'll admit to walking the harder path...fear...pain...loss...Few will admit to waking up in the head of the vic.
elizabeth short		 Don't just walk out on me, Richard. Say something. Say you care say you--
bucky		I wasn't on the transfer list.
russ millard		I asked Jack to keep you on.
bucky		Why?
russ millard		Because you're getting to be a damn good Detective, Bleichert. And Harry's retiring in two years. Need I spell it out?
bucky		No.
russ millard		You been working this case pretty hard. Or is it the other way around?
russ millard		It's not as much fun once it moves to the back pages, is it?  I hear they arrested two Mexicans in Juarez for the Bobby De Witt murder.
bucky		I heard that, too.
russ millard		You must be relieved.
bucky		They've rescinded the APB on Lee. If he doesn't show up in thirty days he's out.
russ millard		He'll be found if he wants to be found.
bucky		Like the guy who killed the Dahlia?
vogel		Boyo! Glad you could make it.
ellis loew		I called this little meeting for a couple reasons, Bucky. We'd both like to see the Short case closed out and get back to normal business.
bucky		Russ Millard wants me when Harry retires.
vogel		You're too raw for him, boyo. Old Russ is a sob sister, and I'm much more your type.
bucky		What do you want, Ellis?
ellis loew		Very well, Dwight. I'll tell you. There are four confessors still being held at City Jail. They've got no alibis, weren't coherent when they were first questioned, and they're all violent, frothing-at-the- mouth lunatics. I want them reintegrated. It's a muscle job.
vogel		I wanted Bill Koenig--
ellis loew		But Bill's a bit too enamored with violence. So it's you, Dwight. Yes or no? Because if it's yes, I'll make sure you're back on Warrants tomorrow with an inside track to some stripes. If not, it's Homicide shitwork until Russ Millard gets tired of you. We both know that Russ is a patient, forbearing man, Dwight. That could be a long time. Yes or no?
voice over		On my way over I played out their rap sheets in my head, trying to work up a head of hate...Loren Bidwell, three time Atascadero loser, falls for aggravated sexual assault on minors. Between prison jolts he confessed to all the big sex crimes.
voice over		Charlie Issler was a pimp and a career confessor specializing in copping to hooker homicides. His three procuring beefs had netted him a year county jail time, his phony confessions two ninety day observation stints at the Camarillo nut farm.
vogel		You all confessed to killing the Dahlia. We can't prove you did, so you're gonna have to convince us... Query on, Bucko.
bucky		Tell me about Betty Short, pops. Why'd you kill her?
vogel		Don't be timid, boyo. That bird made little boys suck his hog.
bucky		Come clean, pop.
bidwell		I didn't kill her mister. I just wanted a ticket to the honor farm. Three hots and a cot, that's all. Please, mister.
bucky		Tell me about it, Cecil.
durkin		 You get that line from Dick Tracy or Gangbusters?
bucky		One more time, shitbird. Tell me about you and Betty Short.
durkin		I fucked Betty Short and I fucked your mama! I'm your fucking daddy!
bucky		I'm the nice guy, Cecil. Keep that in mind.
issler		 Please. I didn't kill Liz. I don't know why I do these things, and I apologize. So please don't let that man hurt me.
bucky		Convince me.
issler		I...can't. I just can't.
bucky		You're a pimp. You know Betty Short?
issler		No.
bucky		Why'd you confess to her murder?
issler		She looked so...sweet and pretty and I felt so bad. I always confess to the pretty ones.
bucky		You feel guilty Charlie? You hit your girls, get 'em high on hop?
issler		I do such nasty things I don't know why--
vogel		This kid glove routine's gettin' old--
issler		I...don't...know...anything!
vogel		Tell me what you know!
issler		I knew you at Ad Vice!
vogel		Tell me what your girls tell you!
voice over		East 5th Street from Main to Stanford. Blood banks, liquor stores selling half pints and short dogs exclusively, fifty- cent-a-night flophouses and derelict missions...
voice over		Banished by Ellis Loew, who dared me to try my word against a twenty-two year man and the city's future District Attorney. I confined the truth to Russ and Kay, and determined to spend my shifts trying to be the worst foot hack in history.
voice over		A month passed. The Dahlia leads dwindled to zero and every officer except Russ and Harry were returned to their regular assignments. As for me, I'd been able to contain my Dahlia interests within the walls of the El Nido.
madeleine		You'll be back.  I look like her.
voice over		But sometimes Betty came to me...
betty short		Bucky! No! Stop him!  I'll do whatever you want...
issler		I'll be okay....Liz...
russ millard		Bucky.
bucky		You ever hear anyone refer to Betty as Liz? Anyone at all?
russ millard		Nope.
bucky		Issler did.
russ millard		The pimp? I thought he said he'd never heard of her.
bucky		You know what else he said?
vogel		What did you know about the Dahlia's missing days?
issler		I knew you at Ad Vice--
bucky		Fritzie didn't give a damn about those other three. It was all about Issler. Never occurred to me before.
russ millard		Bright penny--
bucky		Hello, Charlie. Get lost?
russ millard		So good ol' Fritzie's shaking down crooks, maybe sellin' 'em tip-offs before a roust.
bucky		I want him nailed.
russ millard		Easy, penny. They'd have to testify against him first. And that's not likely after he burns those carbons. But this Issler business--why hide the Issler- Betty connection?
bucky		 Maybe Charlie pimped her out...to somebody Fritzie doesn't want us to know about...
fritzie		Tell me what you know about the Dahlia's missing days--
bucky		I knew it. Here. Betty writes to one of her phantom servicemen boyfriends:  "...had drinks with a great girl, Sally Stinson, who thinks she way be able to help me get a job cocktailing..."
russ millard		Cocktailing.
bucky		Yeah, I know. That's what made it stick with me...What next, padre?
russ millard		You sit tight. Go hack to swingwatch. Me and Harry'll poke around.
bucky		 I want him.
russ millard		You'll get him, too. But you've got to cool your temper. It's all patience with the big fish or they wriggle off.
voice over		What kept me up that night wasn't the idea of Fritz Vogel extorting criminals, or Fritz Vogel bracing Charlie the pimp to see if Betty had told him something about one of her johns...maybe even Vogel, himself...No...
voice over		...what kept me up was this thought: if Issler blabbed about Liz and her tricks I would have overheard. Fritz was confident he could keep me quiet.
russ millard		We've found her. Meet me at 1546 North Havenhurst in half an hour.
sally		I do a lot a cops, you know. Comes with the territory. Charlie used to say it was my union dues. Keep my operator's license.
buck		Ma'am. Please get to it.
sally		Anyway. It was a full-day job. C-Note and a half. Kept talkin' about givin' me "The Big Schnitzel"...more like a cocktail frank once we got down to it...Well, we screw the whole afternoon...Go down to the lobby for some dinner and there's Liz, sittin' by herself.
bucky		You'd hooked with her before?
sally		Three or four times. Conventioneers. And lemme tell you something, I'm pretty good at faking it. But Liz, she was good. A virtuoso, Academy Award kind of stuff--
bucky		--She do dyke?
russ millard		Bucky--
sally		No. Nothing like that.
bucky		Any porn?
sally		No. But I bet she'd be gooood...
russ millard		Ma'am.
bucky		Did anything unusual happen?
sally		I think it got a little kinky. He'd brought a couple toys...He may have...whipped her a bit.
bucky		Did Vogel say anything about Liz? Was he gonna see her again? Anything?
sally		He said...she liked the Big Schnitzel.
russ millard		Anything else, Miss Stinson?
sally		Two days...after...Liz got in all the papers...
bucky		 Is this when your pimp Charlie confesses?
sally		 Yeah. Bad habit. Anyways, Fritzie V. shows up and shakes me hard about Charlie, whether he'd say anything about Liz to the caps. Beat me bad. Real bad.
bucky		One last time to be sure.  You are sure this is the man that you tricked with? And tricked with Liz Short?
sally		No mister you got it all wrong.
bucky		But you said--
sally		Fritz just beat me. It was Sonny me and Liz did. Sonny.
russ millard		I'll be a chimp's priest, Buck. A chimp's priest--watch the air bubbles--I shoulda known that Johnny I d need a pro to lose his cherry...Never had 'em for a kink and a cherry, though...
bucky		There.
bucky		 Johnny--
johnny vogel		Whatcha doin' in civvies, Bleichert?
russ millard		Pentothal's good for another couple hours. No way he can lie.
bucky		Elizabeth Short, shitbird. Elizabeth fucking Short!
russ millard		There's a method to this, Bucky.  What's your name, son?
johnny		 You know me, loot.
russ millard		Answer me anyway.
johnny		Vogel, John G.
russ millard		What's sixteen and fifty-two?
johnny		Uhmmm. Sixty-eight. Why'd you hit me Bleichert? I didn't do you no dirt.
russ millard		Focus on January, Johnny. Your father--
johnny		Friedrich Vogel. Fritzie.
russ millard		Yes. Fritzie. He wanted you to lose your cherry. He bought you a woman for two days. Is that right?
johnny		Not a woman. Not a real one. A hoooer.
russ millard		This was at the Biltmore?
johnny		Daddy got a good rate on the room. He knew the house dick...This ain't right...
russ millard		We'll be done soon, Johnny. You met Liz Short at the Biltmore, too?
johnny		What's her name introduced me...the hooer.
russ millard		And what did you and Liz do?
johnny		We...played horse and rider. Gave her the Big Schnitz.
russ millard		Did you whip her?
johnny		Softly. So so softly. Horse and Rider.
russ millard		Johnny. Did you kill Liz Short?
johnny		No no no no! I didn't kill her!
russ millard		Easy son--
johnny		I didn't slice her!
russ millard		It's all right...Do you know who did? JOHNNY No! No!
russ millard		When your Daddy found out you'd been with her, he tried to fix things didn't he?
johnny		Daddy...went to Ellis...to the Jewboy. Wanted to get Charlie released...but the Jewboy said no...Daddy had a morgue friend owed him a favor and got this DOA cooze...Daddy wanted Uncle Bill but Ellis Jewboy said take Bleichert.  Daddy said you'd do it cuz without Blanchard you were jelly. Said you were a sob sister, weak sister...
russ millard		 I think you should go outside.
russ millard		His statement. Signed.
russ millard		We should sit on this for a little bit. Until I can talk to a legal officer.
johnny		Daddy...
russ millard		 It's the shithouse until you retire, you know that.
bucky		I owe her this one.
bucky		No comment...No comment...  Tell your Daddy I know everything. Including his extortion deal. Tell him I'm goin' to the papers tomorrow.
desk sergeant		What the hell is this?
bucky		I'm Officer Dwight Bleichert and this is Officer John Vogel.
intercom		Officer Bleichert, go to the watch commander's office immediately.
jastrow		You're on two weeks vacation leave as of now. When you return to duty, report to Chief Green. He'll reassign you to another division.
bucky		Why?
jastrow		Fritz Vogel just blew his brains out. That's why.
elizabeth short		What do you mean?
elizabeth short		What would you like to talk about?
kay		I could take sick days. Maybe a trip to Santa Barbara, or even a drive to San Francisco...
bucky		Kay.
fay		You don't owe him a thing, Bucky. I know you won't believe me. But you've more than repaid him already.
bucky		First thing.
kay		You're a fool, Dwight.
voice over		I closed out my glory days the only way I knew how--I chased the gone man.
voice over		I got headshakes, bullshit broadsides and a strange series of tales that rang true. One had "el blanco explosivo" beating the shit out of three jack rollers, then buying off the cops with double-saws peeled from a large roll. Another had Lee donating 200 scoots to a leper ministry priest and then driving to Ensenada.
voice over		I decided it would be wise to check in with the law before going out to question the Ensenada citizenry.
captain vasquez		Officer Bleichert. Come in, please. I'm Captain Vasquez. How can I help you?
bucky		This man's LAPD. He's been missing in Mexico since January. He was last seen headed here.
captain vasquez		No. I'm afraid not. I'll ask my men, however. Staying the night?
bucky		At least.
vasquez		Are you here alone?
bucky		I have two partners waiting for me in Tijuana.
captain vasquez		Please.
old man		Bleichert? Jesus. First Blanchard, then you. Who's next? Willie Pep?
bucky		Blanchard? You've seen him? When?
old man		Couple months ago. Heavy rains in February. Musta talked fights for ten hours straight. You know Blanchard thinks the feathers are the best division? me, it's the middies for sure. La Motta, Graziano--
bucky		Is he still in town?
old man		Don't think so. I own this place. He ain't been back. You lookin' for a rematch?
bucky		I'm looking to get him out of a shitload of trouble.
old man		Well. I'll tell ya the little I know. Heard he caused a ruckus over at the Club Satan, had to bribe his way out big with Captain Vasquez. Talk to Ernie the cook. Tell him I said to be kosher with you.
bucky		Thank you.
old man		You ain't been in there.
old woman		You wan' the bar, handsome? Breakfast of champions, one dollar. Round the world, two dollars.
bucky		Ernie. I need to see Ernie.
old woman		Vamanos!
bucky		I heard this man gave you some trouble a while back.
ernie		Who wants to know?
ernie		You his friend?
bucky		He's my best friend.
ernie		Your friend drink fourteen shots of my best Mescal, a house record. That I like. He make toasts to dead women. That I don't mind. But he try to fuck with my donkey show, and that I don't take.
bucky		What happened?
ernie		Four of my guys he take, the fifth he don't. Rurales take him home to sleep it off.
bucky		That's it?
ernie		Finito.
man		Whoa, Bleichert. I'm a friend--
bucky		You tell me all of it and you watch what you say about my partner, or it's a B&E roust and the Ensenada jail.
dolphine		You mean Vasquez? How do you think I knew to follow you? He's got a vested interest in you not finding out about Blanchard.
bucky		Does he know I'm staying here?
dolphine		No.
bucky		So. Let's hear it.
dolphine		About a month ago this Mexican woman shows up at my office in Dago. Chubby, ten tons a makeup, but dressed to the nines. Offers me five hundred to find Blanchard. Just like you I track him here where he's playing the rich gringo--
dolphine		I even see him beat up two spics who insult this Senorita--Rurales stand by and do nothing. So I know he's paying protection dough. A lot of it. Then  I hear he paid off two plainclothes Rurale to snuff a coupla guys in TJ--
dolphine		I leave a message in Dago for the woman tellin' her what I know...
bucky		What's her name?
dolphine		Delores Garcia. But it was obviously a phony. Casco ran with some rich bimbos and I'm betting she's one of his. Revenge on Blanchard for offin' Felix.
bucky		Go on.
dolphine		I come back to Ensenada on my own, thinking about all that cash he was flashing.
bucky		Go on.
dolphine		Blanchard's dead. Bullet in the cabeza.  Rumor is they never found any money.
bucky		Prove it to me. Prove it!
dolphine		The locals keep the damn thing lit up. They got a lotta missing relatives.
bucky		You got a shovel?
dolphine		Gardening tools--
bucky		Good enough.
dolphine		Here. Supposed to be near el bannero.
dolphine		Sailor's uniform. It's a sailor...
voice over		Lee and Kay had lived in sin; not because their shack job was against department regs, but because the ghosts of their past had forced them to choose between love and passion, the veneer of a "fairy tale" only a band-aid for a fractured life.
voice over		Our true vows were made in private; bury the past, bury our ghosts, and as Kay said, "bury that fucking girl"...
detective		Bleichert? You got those prints for me?
announcer		...results in the 1948 Republican primary are final...John Dougdale trouncing D.A. Ellis Loew 64% to 36%...In county primaries...
kay		That reminds me of something, Dwight.
bucky		What?
kay		Floorboard's loose near the closet. Think you could fix it?
bucky		 Sure, babe.
kay		Sounds lovely. Where is it?
bucky		Hancock Park.
woman		Yes?
bucky		I'm Officer Bleichert. LAPD. My I express my condolences, Mrs.--
woman		Jane Chambers. Condolences accepted. You're the lab man?
jane chambers		It's the study in back of the dining room. You'll see the police rope. If you'll excuse me, I'll be in my garden.
jane chambers		The other survivors. Pretty aren't they?
bucky		Like their mother. How old are they?
jane chambers		Twenty-one and twenty-three. Are you finished in the study?
bucky		Yes. Tell whoever cleans it up to use pure ammonia...  Mrs. Chambers--
jane chambers		Jane.
bucky		Jane, do you know Madeleine and Martha Sprague? The next block over?
jane chambers		 Those girls and that family. How do you know them?
bucky		I did a little work for them once.
jane chambers		Consider it lucky if it was a brief encounter.
bucky		How do you mean?
jane chambers		Back to condolences. Thank you for being so nice, Mr.--
bucky		Bucky. Good-bye, Jane.
jane chambers		Good-bye.
vic		You finish working up the suicide, Bucky?
bucky		Yeah. Pretty routine. Whattya know about the husband?
vic		Eldridge Chambers? Widow said he was depressed, failing health. The terrible burden of all that money'll get you every time.
bucky		Wonder how he made it?
vic		No mystery there. Real estate.
bucky		Oh really?
elizabeth short		...I had a fiance, Captain Matt Durand. He was in a tank battalion. A Commander. He had...the fiercest blue eyes. Like the deep water you see from a fishing boat...
kay		 What're you doing?
bucky		I'm...looking for the hammer.
kay		Dwight?
bucky		Were you ever going to tell me?
kay		He'd given all his money to Ben Siegel.  He wanted to give me a home.
lee		...said I'd get a shot at Joe Louis if I'd take two dives for him. I said no...
bucky		Were you ever going to tell me?
kay		He knew what Bobby was doing to me...How he'd used a razor on me...pimped me to his friends...
kay		...Bobby know nothing about the bank job. He and Lee, they never even met. After Lee and his driver got away, Lee figured framing Bobby'd give me a way out...
kay		Then last year...the fourth man--the driver--he heard Bobby was getting paroled. He threatened to tell DeWitt that Lee framed him. He wanted money we didn't have. Ten thousand dollars.
bucky		Ever. Were you ever...?
kay		Promise me this: Forgive him for DeWitt. Forgive him for the bank. It doesn't matter anymore. Not to us.
bucky		Who was the driver, Kay? Tell me. Tell me!
kay		Baxter Fitch.
baxter fitch		Blanchard?
voice over		Fire and Ice. The hero and the snitch. Bank robber and his best friend the bumfuck detective. Triggerman. Stooge. Weak point in a fairy tale triangle.
jane chambers		So. What brings you around again? Considering a courtin' the old rich widow?
bucky		You're not that old. And you're not very widowed.
jane chambers		You either are or you aren't.
bucky		You seem to be doing all right.
jane chambers		Eldridge had cancer. I half expected it. We weren't that close anymore...You married?
bucky		Little over a year.
jane chambers		God. Newlyweds. Nothing better, is there?
bucky		So how well do you know the Spragues?
jane chambers		Eldridge and Emmett went way back. They served on the California real estate board together. But Emmett was a bit of a crook. My husband got him kicked off the board for building dangerous buildings under phony corporations.
bucky		Your husband sounds like a good man.
jane chambers		He had his moments. Most of it was out of guilt. He owned slum blocks in San Pedro. When he learned he had cancer, he really started feeling guilty. He voted Democratic last year. Even went in and had meetings with the City Council. I'm sure he gave them dirt on Emmett.
bucky		I read an article in the paper.
jane chambers		Same day Eldridge killed himself. Apropos, I guess.
bucky		Maybe your husband--
jane chambers		My husband was rich and did a mean Charleston. I loved him until I found out he was cheating on me. Now I'm starting to love him again. How strange.
bucky		It's not so strange.
jane chambers		You're very accepting of other people's frailties. You're young. You should have illusions.
bucky		I'm a cop. Illusions aren't standard issue.
jane chambers		So how'd a cop get mixed up with Madeleine Sprague? It was Madeleine, I assume?
bucky		I stopped her at a red light. One thing led to another. Why do you assume it was Madeleine?
jane chambers		Don't play dumb, Bucky. The girl's a roundheels. Always has been.
bucky		Jane. Don't be catty.
jane chambers		I'm sorry. She can't help it I'm sure. She probably inherited it from her mother.
jane chambers		You figure out the rest, officer.
bucky		God that is spooky.
jane chambers		Valuable, too. Eldridge bought it for my birthday a couple years ago. I hate it. Want to take it with you?
bucky		No thanks.
jane chambers		Thank you, then. You were my best condoler.
bucky		And you mine.
kay		Dwight--
thad green		SID's not a bad beat, Bucky. At the time it was better than you deserved.
voice over		Newton Street Division. Footbeat hacks carried metal-studded saps; squadroom dicks packed .45 automatics loaded with unregulation dum-dums.
voice over		Kay. Lee. Madeleine. Betty Short. For one month I escaped them all.
voice over		A fucking supercop.
voice over		I escaped them all. Almost.
old drunk		Pleease!
bucky		It's me.
voice over		It was a reunion of avowed tramps, old rutters who knew they'd never have it as good with anyone else... Afterwards we'd talk through the night. The Spragues...Crazy Papa Bleichert...
voice over		Mostly, though we'd talk about Betty. Her utter malleability, a chameleon eager to please anybody...and the disrupter of every life close to me...It would last a month.
madeleine		What?
bucky		Nothing.
madeleine		 You miss 'em, laddie? Mother's insults? Martha's pornography...
bucky		Your father's Georgie Tilden war stories?
voice over		In the scheme of things it wasn't much. Rich old lady gossip, as Jane put it.
bucky		 Hey! Goddammit! Get back here!
kay		I didn't touch your things. You can have the furniture.
bucky		Babe--
kay		Did you think I'd let my husband disappear for three weeks and do nothing about it? I've had detectives following you, Dwight. Detectives. She looks like that fucking dead girl, so you can have her--not me.
bucky		Babe. Goddammit.
kay		Whoremonger. Coward. Necrophile.
voice over		It came on then, big and ugly: bye-bye Bleichert at the bus stop, adios shitbird, has-been, never-was, stool pigeon harness bull.
girl		. Great. Take a hike you big sicko--
bucky		Wait--
cleo short		It's all right, dear. I know this pug.
cleo short		Came into a little change a while back, managed to trade in that shit shack out back for these digs.  And I don't give a fuck what you think, you and your partner ain't much to look at now. I read the papers.
bucky		You didn't move far.
cleo short		Wouldn't a mattered if I did.  Whatcha here for, mug? I know you ain't smart enough to solve the case, and you ain't dumb enough to still think I did it...I had an alibi.
bucky		Tighter'n a popcorn fart.
cleo short		And that's air tight, mug. Air tight.
bucky		I just thought...Maybe after all this time...There's something you might have forgot...Anything she might have said...
cleo short		She was a terrible actress. I'm sure folks've told you that. She'd practice in front of the john mirror. Once or twice she got me in on it...Reading parts with her for some audition. She stunk. Even a parent could tell. What Beth was good at was writing. All her teachers used to say that. Not that a grease like me'd know the difference. Maybe she coulda written for the pictures. But she wanted to be an actress like every other silly girl.
bucky		My father.
cleo short		 He proud of his son, the ace copper? Or maybe he thought you'd end up champ?
cleo short		Your momma?
bucky		She killed herself a long time ago.
cleo short		Probably better off then.
bucky		Thank you for your time, Mr. Short. if--
cleo short		Get a life, Bleichert. Don't dream it all away. Dreamin'll kill ya.  You, too. Get me a sandwich.
voice over		I tried to keep calm. I told myself that just because Emmett Sprague helped Mack Sennett build sets in the twenties didn't mean he had anything to do with a smut film twenty-five years later.
emmett sprague		Mack Sennett? Helped him build that housing project he was putting up-- Hollywoodland--
russ millard		I got your message, Bucky.
bucky		Look, Russ...I think...I may have it. I--
russ millard		It?
bucky		Her! Her! I've got a hot one, padre. It's just...
russ millard		Calm down, son. Tell me.
voice over		I told him everything. Me and Madeleine, the Spragues. Withholding evidence for her. Everything. Even Lee. After all of it he only had one thing to say:
russ millard		All right, then. It's your ball. What do you wanna do?
bucky		I want to search every fucking inch of every goddamn acre of Emmett Sprague property if it takes the rest of my shitty career. And I know exactly where we start.
voice over		Between my time with Madeleine and the local boom baron expose in the papers, I was practically an expert on Emmett Sprague's land deals...
voice over		And if my hunch was right, we wouldn't have to look any further than one of Emmett Sprague's condemned bungalows. One that was isolated...abandoned...
voice over		...and most importantly, close to a water source...where one could drain a body of its blood.
russ millard		Bucky.
russ millard		God help her.
bucky		 Box up the books and papers. Maybe light that lantern.
russ millard		You all right?
bucky		Thing is, Russ. Thing is...There's another set of latents up there on the doorjamb...And my hands're shaking so bad I can't transfer 'em.
bucky		We finally have it, Russ. All of it. All of her.  All right here.
russ millard		Are you sure you don't want to came home? Mrs. Millard'll fix up the couch.
bucky		No. Thanks. I'll stay here.  I want to get up early and confirm these prints.
russ millard		You're a very very bright penny, Officer.
madeleine		I don't wanna go to Europe, Daddy. You're always talking about how dreadful and provincial it is.
emmett sprague		...they've got what you need, lassie.
bucky		And what is that, Emmett? Saps like me? Direct line to the straight dope? Or is that what you needed?
emmett sprague		Aaah, laddie.
bucky		George Tilden killed Elizabeth Short and the two of you covered it up.
madeleine		Georgie was always...sneaking around Daddy's properties. He saw them make it...He...got crazy about Betty.
bucky		Of course. She looked like his daughter.
emmett sprague		In the Argonne, Georgie used to bayonet the dead Gerries. I saw it. Thrilled him, it did. He was...hmm...disturbed. I think Ramona found him...a good way to strike back at me.
bucky		How'd it all go down?
madeleine		It was Sunday I remember...Betty called...short of cash as usual. I put Daddy on, and he offered Betty money to date a nice man he knew. Georgie'd been driving Daddy crazy, wanting to get with Betty ever since the movie. Threatening to tell people he was my father. But we thought Georgie just wanted her for sex.
bucky		He was a sick fuck and you knew it!
emmett sprague		He was passive. He liked to touch dead things. His father was a surgeon, did you know that? Famous in Scotland.
bucky		What did you tell Betty? What did you tell her?
madeleine		We said he was a war hero. Because we didn't want her to feel like a whore.
bucky		Then?
madeleine		You know the rest.
bucky		Pretend I'm stupid. For old time's sake.
madeleine		I went looking for Linda Martin, and I found her at a motel in the Valley. I gave her money and told her to say the stag was filmed in Tijuana with a Mexican crew.
bucky		And then what? I come along? Daddy tell you to fuck me or was that your idea?
madeleine		Bucky--
madeleine		Bucky--
emmett sprague		Ramona didn't know a thing. Martha--
bucky		What about sweet little Martha?
madeleine		Martha knew I'd been with Betty. But that was all. But she's a demon, you know. She even called the cops with a tip on La Verne's--just hoping I'd get smeared in the papers. I scratched her good for that.
bucky		Martha tell you this?
bucky		Then she lied to get your goat, 'cuz no one ever called in a tip on LaVerne's.
madeleine		Figures.
emmett sprague		What are you gonna do?
bucky		Passports. All four.
emmett sprague		Don't insult me, lad.
madeleine		We'll ruin you in court, you know. If you go after us, we'll ruin you. Over what? Some little slut--
emmett sprague		You know, laddie. The rich don't necessarily own art just for themselves; we safekeep it for future generations.
bucky		I need to see it. EMMETT SPRAGUE It?
bucky		Just to be sure. I need to see it.
emmett sprague		I'm not sure I know...
bucky		I need to see his grave, you tightass kiltwearing motherfucker. Where'd you bury George Tilden?
voice over		When I'd pulled George's print card that morning, I'd already laid fifty down with Russ that he was our guy. Amateur taxidermist, transient. If he was a cop 39th and Norton woulda been right in the middle of his beat...
voice over		But I'd be lying if I said I hadn't wanted to nail the sicko myself, giving him ten rounds of Bleichert rage.
voice over		Maybe he'd have gone for a gun or probably a knife, and the Bleichert fists would've given way to a full load of .45 in the chest.
jane chambers		...and then Eldridge said: I'm sure that's the case Mr. Mayor, but that's not my dog and those sure as hell aren't my shoes!
bucky		 Yeah, well. Old habits die hard.
jane chambers		 I'd been thinking about giving it to charity, but it's too valuable. I found Eldridge's receipt...
bucky		Yes, I'm fine.
jane chambers		You'll appreciate the coincidence--
jane chambers		What is it--
ramona		I'm in here, officer.
bucky		I know what you did, Ramona. You and Georgia. I've seen the painting. You sold it the day of the murder. You know I've got the book. And now I've got you.
ramona		We see you out there, you know. Every night. We see you. You don't fool us. You didn't hurt Georgie. You didn't hurt Madeleine. And as much as I wish you would, you didn't hurt Emmett. You're a voyeur. That's all the lesser classes have. Pressing their nose up against the glass.
bucky		So tell me. Let me see.
ramona		Emmett slashed his face, I'm sure you know. Madeleine was eleven and she looked just like Georgie. When he got out of the hospital I gave him the Hugo book as a present. My Gwynplain. But he was afraid of Emmett's rage...After that...we rarely spoke.
bucky		Tell me about Betty Short.
bucky		Your husband bought her for George.
ramona		Emmett never stopped hating me.
bucky		For George--
ramona		For being richer than he was.
bucky		You tortured her.
bucky		She lied about that. To get Madeleine's goat.
ramona		Oh is that so? You poor boy. Your life is worse than mine. Maybe the cruel joke is on you.
kay		Dwight?
bucky		How much of the hundred grand did Lee let you keep?
bucky		He knew about Madeleine Sprague. He knew about Laverne's Hideaway.
lee		--Penance for Junior Nash--
bucky		And you knew it, Kay! You knew it all! He took that hundred thousand and split to Mexico and you let him go!
kay		You are so, so good at some things.
kay		He was going to leave no matter what. I didn't know if I was ever going to see him again, and I wanted him to be comfortable if such a thing was possible. Dwight, he knew I was in love with you, and he wanted us to be together.
bucky		He didn't leave, he ran. He ran from the bank job, ran from the frame on DeWitt. He knew who killed Elizabeth Short and fucking ran away! This whole time. You both knew everything--
kay		Goddammit, Dwight! That girl--that girl! I don't give a damn about that girl. She ruined our lives!
bucky		 Adios yourself back to the Halls of Tripoli, shitbird. I've got business with the lady.
bucky		I've been pointing my gun at a lot of people this week. But I haven't had much of a chance to shoot anybody. Whattya think?
madeleine		I think you'd rather fuck me than kill me. But you don't have the guts to do either. You're a boxer. Not a puncher.
bucky		 Aaaah, lassie. You wanna sell me short to the very end, eh?
madeleine		I don't know what you're talking about--
bucky		How 'bout the Mexican accent you used when you hired the private dick to track down Lee. Let's see the make-up job. Let's see the fucking dress, mamacita, that you wore when you chased after poor daddy's money. Tell me something--you shoot Lee yourself?
madeleine		You'll never do it. Never. Remember...I look like her.
voice over		We took the fall together.
voice over		Ever the consummate actor, Madeleine Sprague confessed to killing Lee by concocting a love triangle from the three of us...The Bleichert/Blanchard rematch fought over her hand, with Lee beating Emmett and demanding he "hand over" his daughter when she preferred me.
voice over		So the brass girl took the fall for the whole family. And I took the fall for me. IAD cleared me on the motel shooting--a cop's code make-good for Blanchard's snuff. WE PULL OUT and see Bucky's cuffs, badge and gun sitting on the table in front of him.
voice over		...but I had people to protect...People who already knew that, for the briefest of times, and in the darkest of places, I had been so, so, good at some things.
voice over		Thank you Elizabeth.
****Dialogues from script :Black_Panther.txt****

son		Baba?
father		Yes, my son?
son		Tell me a story .
father		Which one?
son		The story of home . A meteorite drifts into frame , heading towards tiny Earth off in the distance.
father		Millions of years ago , a meteorite made of vibranium, the strongest substance in the universe struck the continent of Africa affecting the plant life around it.
son		And we still hide Baba?
father		Yes .
son		Why?
james		Is it the Feds?
james		It's two Grace Jones looking chicks .. they're holding spears . . .
james		You serious?
doramilaje 1		  Prove to me you are one of us .
n' jobu		I did no such thing . Young T'Chaka snaps a look to James .
james		Zuri, Son of Badu .
bbc anchor		The tiny nation of Wakanda is mourning the death of its monarch , King T'Chaka. The beloved ruler was one of many confirmed dead after a terrorist attack at the United Nations a week ago . The Suspect has since been apprehended .
okoye		My Prince , coming up on them now.
an		sinister serpent through the surrounding wilderness. We pull back into the sky revealing the tip of a futuristic looking aircraft. This is the ROYALTALONFIGHTER  .
okoye		Just don't freeze when you see her .
militant leader		Defense position ! The militant leader slips down a Night Vision MONOCULAR as the other MILITANTS echo the call and begin to fall in line .
dressed in		hijab sit, waiting. A CARGOTRUCKMILITANT sits amongst the women, RIFLE in hand, next to a YOUNGMILITANT, a child soldier no older than twelve. We find a WOMAN sitting in the back corner , her eyes observing the militants intensely. This is NAKIA  . The CARGOTRUCKMILITANT stands up and cocks his rifle .
cargotruckmilitant		No games .
fromthe road		We hear a faint struggle, then a MILITANT'S BODYis hurled into the side of the pickup truck as the other militants look on in horror ! The . SO CAL GUNNERand all of the other men in the convoy BLINDLY OPEN FIRE into the trees .
on panther		In a moment of desperation , the Young Militant rushes out , firing at Panther to no effect. Then , as Panther walks towards him, Nakia dives out , kicking the young militant's gun from his hand and grabs him in a neck-lock. Swinging around , Nakia kicks Panther in the chest, stopping his momentum. Caught off guard, Panther freezes .
nakia		This one is just a boy . .. he got kidnapped as well. Nakia pulls the wrap from the young militant's face , exposing his pre-teen expression. She removes her own hijab as well. Panther stares at her- for a beat too long ...
okoye		You froze . T'Challa removes his helmet , facing Nakia.
nakia		Why are you here? Eesh, you ruined my mission !
nakia		Carry yourselves home now , and take the boy . Get him to his people . The Nigerian Woman nods .
nigerian woman		Thank you .
okoye		You will speak nothing of this day . T 'Challa loo k s at the Young Militant for a beat before he , Nakia and Okoye disappear through the trees . The Nigerian Women and the Young Militant look up at the sky as the RTF takes off .
mountain		 BORDER- BREAKINGDAWN The RTF comes out of stealth mode and becomes visible as it glides over a mountain range .
okoye		Sister Nakia ... My Prince. We are home . Nakia approaches the front of the craft with T ' Challa. They loo k out .
nakia		Queen Mother . . . Princess . My comfort for your loss.
ramonda		Thank you , Nakia. It is so good to have you back with us . Nakia nods.
ayo		Yes, general . Ayo nods and walks off with Nakia while Shuri watches closely .
okoye		Like an antelope in headlights. Shuri laughs at this .
t' challa		Are you finished? Okoye slams her spear into the ground , signaling the rest of the Dora to follow her off . T'Challa turns to Shuri .
ramonda		Shuri! T'Challa smiles at this .
ramonda		Proud ... your father and I would talk about this day all the time . He is with us , and it is your time to be King .
later		We see a black man in high-end street wear , around 30 years old . A RING hangs on a gold chain around his neck . This is
museum director		Good morning ! How can I help you?
killmonger		I was just checking out these artifacts . They tell me you're the expert .
museum director		You could say that.
killmonger		They're beautiful . Killmonger points at one of the masks .
museum director		From the Bobo Ashanti Tribe , prese nt da y Ghana . 19th Century .
killmon ger		For real? What about this one?
museum director		That one's from the Edo people of Benin . 16th Century .
killmonger		Now, tell me about this one . Killmonger points to a MINING TOOL off to the side.
museum director		Also from Benin . 7th Century. Fula tribe I believe .
killmonger		Nah.
killmonger		It was taken by British soldiers in Benin but it's from Wakanda and it's made out of vibranium . Don't trip, I'mma take it off your hands for you. She looks at Killmonger like he's crazy .
museum director		These items aren't for sale.
killmonger		How do you think your ancestors got these? You think they paid a fair price? Or did they take it like they took everything else .
museum director		Sir , I'm going to have to ask you to leave . The Museum Director subtly looks back at the security guards , then makes a face and touches her stomach -- indigestion . Killmonger smiles and leans over, whispering in her ear .
killmonger		You got all this security watching me ever since I walked in. But , you ain't checking for what you put in your body . The museum director looks at Killmonger in terror as a security guard walks up behind him .
security guard		Alright, mate. Let's have it . Come on , mate.
killmonger		I think she might not be feelin' too good .
linda		I'm gonna take a break. Preoccupied with the commotion, her co-worker nods and Linda walks out .
klaue		Let's give the lady some space please .
limbani		Step back please, gents , step back please . Museum-goers quickly bee l ine for the exit as Klaue approaches the guards.
klaue		Hey come here. Come here! It ' s ok. You can go , but just don't tell anyone , alright? The SECURITY GUARDlooks back at him unsure, then takes off . Klaue then aims and shoots the Security Guard in the back . Killmonger looks on at him confused .
killmonger		Bro, why you 'aint just shoot h im right here?
klaue		Because it's better to leave the crime scene more spread out . . . makes us look like amateurs . The LENS on a surveillance camera at the corner of the room looks on.
klaue		Now... let's see if you know what you're talking about .. . Klaue removes his glove to reveal a BIONIC PROSTHETIC hand .
killmon ger		You better sel l that quick .
klaue		Oh it's already sold . Klaue waves Lirnbani over with the stretcher to load the hammer inside . He BREAKS the WOODEN HANDLEoff the tool , taking only the vibranium head .
killmonger		Whatever you try , the Wakandans ' ll probably show up .
klaue		That ' ll make my day . I can kill two birds with one stone . Lirnbani approaches Killmonger who eyes a third MASK e xpertly
killmonger		Nah , I'm just feeling it . Killmonger lays atop the gurney and Limbani places an oxygen mask over his face .
and climb		in. Killmonger moves towards the front of the truck and gives Linda a kiss before she hits the SIREN and speeds off .
crowd		Ngu T'Challa Lo . T'Challa bows at Zuri's feet as the RTF lifts away .
zuri		I, Zuri , Son of Badu , give to you, Prince T'Challa , the Black Panther! The Elders watch as Zuri holds up A CEREMONIAL
vessel		containing a mysterious concoction .
crowd		Damaku . . .
zuri		Victory in ritual combat comes by yield or death . If any tribe wishes to put forth a warrior, I now offer a path to the throne . The Merchant Tribe Warrior calls out .
tribe elder		The Merchant Tribe will NOT challenge today. W'KABI, the head of the Border Tribe calls out.
bordertribe elder		The Border tribe will NOT challenge today. Nakia calls out , representing the River Tribe .
zuri		Is there any member of royal blood who wishes to challenge for the throne?
ramonda		Yes .
zuri		M'Baku . What are you doing here?!
zuri		Let the challenge begin! The warriors CLASH, both with great skill . M'Baku with superior strength. T'Challa eludes a salvo of swings, then is driven back by the tip of M'Baku's spear against his shield. Knocking M'Baku's spear free, T'Challa is HAMMERED ONTO HIS BACKbut instantly springs up to dodge more attacks and counter with TWOFIERCE KICKS. M'Baku spits blood and bangs his chest. The rest of the Jabari warriors RESPOND. T'Challa salutes the crowd and they respond LOUDER! M'Baku charges at T'Challa , knuckle-walking , and slipping his assault , T'Challa grabs M'Baku's spear and cartwheels over it to land another KICK. The two continue to battle, BLOCKINGand TRADINGBLUNT STRIKES, until M'Baku delivers a backhand that KNOCKS T'CHALLA OFF HIS FEET near the Dora's spears. With the deadly spears at his back, T'Challa blocks COLOSSAL OVERHEAD BLOWSwith his shield, then M' Baku leans with all his strength trying to impale T'Challa on the TIPS. Clubbing M'Baku to his heels , T'Challa rushes forward for an aerial attack only to be met by a VICIOUS KICK to the chest , causing him to LOSE both his shield and spear!
ramonda		Show him who you are !
pool		T'Challa wedges M'Baku ' s spear UNDERHIS FOOT and PULLS M'Baku to the pool , FLIPPING his body into a SERIES OF LEG
zuri		I now present to you , King T'Challa the Black Panther !!
zuri		My King . Drums begin to play and people start to dance . T'Challa and Nakia stare into each other's eyes amidst the celebration as ..
zuri		Allow the Heart Shaped Herb to restore the powers of the Black Panther and take you to the Ancestral Plane .
zuri		Darnaku . The children begin burying T'Challa in the red sand .
zuri		Breathe , T'Challa. Breathe ! T'Challa breathes in deeply , coughing up dirt . His battle wounds have healed.
nakia		I'm right here .
nakia		I came to support you , and to honor your father. But I can't stay. It's just ... ! found my calling out there . I've seen too many in need just to turn a blind eye . I can't be happy here knowing that there's people out there who have nothing . T'Challa thinks on this .
nakia		Share what we have. We could provide aid and access to technology and refuge to those who need it ... other countries do it, we do it better.
t' challa		We are not like these other countries, Nakia. If the world found out what we truly are, and what we possess -- we could lose our way of life.
nakia		Wakanda is strong enough to help others and protect ourselves at the same time . Nakia gives T'Challa a look .
nakia		I would make a great queen because I am so stubborn .
t' challa		Ah! So you admit it !
nakia		. . if that's what I wanted !
w' kabi		Bast, are we in trouble? Their beads combine to project a display of Okoye .
an		a golden pyramid, T' Challa , W'Kabi, Ramonda and ELDERS from each tribe except the Jabari sit in a circle as Okoye briefs them . W'Kabi and Ramonda flank T'Challa's throne .
okoye		A misidentified Wakandan artifact was stolen yesterday from a British museum . We have learned Ulysses Klaue plans to sell the vibraniurn to an American buyer in South Korea tomorrow night . There are audible murmurs at the name of Ulysses Klaue .
okoye		It's too great an opportunity to pass.
a dragonflyer		lands outside the WAKANDAN
shuri		You sure it's a good idea to take your e x on a mission?
shuri		I have great things to show you , brother . Here are your communication devices for Korea . Unlimited range , also equipped with audio surveillance system . She walks him over to another table with WDGdisks on them .
shuri		The real question is what are those? Why do you have your toes out in my lab? Shuri points at T'Challa's traditional sandals . T'Challa smiles .
shuri		 Yea I bet the elders loved that . Try them on .
shuri		Guess what I ca l l them . T'Challa thinks on this .
shuri		The nanites absorb the kinetic energy and hold it in place for redistribu t ion .
shuri		Now strike it again , in the same spot . T'Challa backs up for a kick. Shuri presses record on her Kimoyo . T'Challa sees this and looks at her suspiciously .
le		of Shuri's gadgets . Shuri cracks up.
okoye		Bast willing this goes quickly , and I can get this ridiculous thing off my head .
okoye		What? It's a disgrace . Looky - loos stare as Nakia leads them to an ELDERLYWOMAN  , se ll ing fish i n front of an al l ey . Nakia greets her in perfect Korean.
t' challa		Spread out. The buyer is likely already here. Okoye heads for the BALCONY VANTAGE POINT while T'Challa and Nakia go down to the FIRST FLOOR.
nakia		Ah, I got into a disagreement with some ivory traders . Made a bit of a mess .
t' challa		And will there be any trouble tonight, Ms. Kenyan heiress?
nakia		Depends on how quickly we finish the mission ...
ross		Your highness . Ross plays it cool .
ross		What I'm doing or not doing on behalf of the US government is of none of your concern. Now, whatever the hell you're up to , do me a favor and stay out of my way.
ross		And didn't I kept it under wraps that the King of a third world country runs around in a bulletproof cat suit. I ' d say we were even . Ross places a Pass bet. T'Challa dumps a stack of chips on Don't Pass. All of the SHOOTER'S FRIENDS blow on the dice.
t' challa		Klaue is leaving out that door with me. You've been warned. T'Challa walks toward another craps table , leaving the pile of chips behind  .
ross		 who was sitting next to T'Challa grabs them . Ross eyes the Thirsty Gambler who shrugs .
thirsty gambler		You know what, I think I'll just take these , bring 'em over here and hold on for safe keeping . He slides them all onto the DON'T PASS bet and Ross walks off in search of T'Challa .
t' challa		General .
on nakia		Who changes position from the bar to the CRAPS TABLE where T'Challa was initially standing .
nakia		I don't see it yet .
on okoye		As TWOOF KLAUES TOUGHSpost ' up on either side of her on the balcony . She trie s to play it cool as they look around at the patrons s uspiciously .
okoye		I thoug ht there were no weapons allo wed in here .
okoye		Someone did not get the memo. Definitely armed .
on klaue		Klaue spots Ross and smiles as he heads down the stairs flanked by a couple of his TOUGHS.
ross		Well that is quite the entourage . You got a mixtape coming out? Klaue cuts Ross a look .
klaue		Yeah ! Yeah , actually there is one . Shocked , Ross is unsure if Kl aue is serious .
ross		Please don't make me listen to your music . I just meant , you got a lot of people with yo u.
klaue		Oh, you think they're for you? Klaue laughs at this .
klaue		You got the diamonds? Klaue is still rubbing Ross' shoulder .
ross		Ok, that's enough. A CIA AGENTwalks a FANCYSLIM BRIEFCASE towards Ross.
nakia		We need to move on Klaue.
ross		The vibranium? Klaue looks around , and reaches into his pants and pulls out a wrinkled, sweaty paper bag, with "FRAGILE" written on it with a sharpie . Ross looks at the bag.
klaue		I was going to buy a fancy suitcase, but I thought I'd save myself some money .
nakia		It's now or never . Nakia continues towards the CIA agent.
southafrican tough		Hey. Okoye pretends she doesn't hear him.
downstairs		The arm-bar tough CRASHESDOWN onto a gaming table behind Klaue and startled patrons , scramble in every direction . Klaue spins toward the commotion as ... Klaue looks back to Ross and spots T'Challa. Producing a HANDGUN from his waist, Klaue opens fire on Ross and the CIA agent . Ross uses the SLIM SUITCASE as a shield as he ducks down below the craps table and . . . T'Challa leaps to action , KICKING and FLIPPING THE TABLE on its edge to block GUNFIRE from Klaue's other toughs. With bullets flying everywhere ... PANICKEDPEOPLE run for their lives . It's CHAOS. Surrounded by TOUGHS Klaue retreats , for the stairs .
klaue		Get the diamonds, quick ! EVERYONE OF KLAUE'S TOUGHSunload, raining shells on the overturned craps table with Ross and T'Challa behind it . The TOUGHS move in only to have T'Challa leap from the table , staying low to FOOTSWEEP one onto his back . T'Challa kicks him back then disarms another TOUGHand kicks him into the bar . T'Challa then spins and kicks the next TOUGHover the roulette table and through the bar railing. Nakia grabs a goon in an ARMTWIST trying to relieve him of his gun . She takes off one shoe and knocks out another approaching gun. Swings the arm twisted goon to the floor, knocks him out, taking his gun and shooting up towards the balcony where Okoye is fighting .
on okoye		Okoye BATTLES TWOTOUGHSwith her full-length spear, dropping both with proficiency .
klaue		You know, you look just like your old man. T'Challa snatches up a ROLLING CHANGECART TABLE just as Klaue fires the blaster at him . BOOOOM ! A COLOSSALSONIC BLAST hits the cart, !! blowing it to pieces and sending T'Challa FLYING THROUGH THE UPPER BALCONY RAILING back down into the pit . With money FLOATING in the air , T'Challa lands hard .
klaue		That was awesome! That was awesome! Let's go ! Go, go , come on! Klaue jumps in the first of FOUR IDLING 4RUNNERS. The convoy instantly skids away as ... Nakia and Okoye emerge . Okoye throws an EMP bead from her pocket and it lands on a parked LEXUS LC.
nakia		Do we just leave him?
okoye		He'll catch up. Nakia starts the car and Okoye climbs in . T'Challa sprints out of casino .
shuri		Okay okay, calm down brother !
shuri		Wool Let's go !
klaue		Put some music on ! What do you think this is a funeral?
nakia		Which one is he in now?
okoye		They're trying to lose us .
shuri		We'll take the other two ! I see a short cut .
shuri		We're not going to make it!
shuri		Wool Brother !
shuri		Hey , what was that ! ?
okoye		Guns . So primitive . I/e . KLAUE'S 4RUNNER, SPEAR STREET - NIGHT Klaue barks into his comm.
nakia		What are you doing?
okoye		Just drive .
nakia		Eesh . Nakia drops back and weaves through traffic as Okoye , engages her SPEAR MECHANISM,then steadies herself and let's her long spear fly , launching the weapon like a javelin.
of		truck, SPIKING THE GROUND and bringing the SUV to a stop with the force of a head on collision !
wool		I/e . KLAUE'S 4RUNNER, SPEAR STREET - NIGHT
klaue		Oh shoot.
driver		Where'd he go ! ? Then out of nowhere, PANTHERLANDSHARDon the hood of the
shuri		You show off.
nakia		There he is ! Hold tight !
klaue		Right, let's have some fun . Sitting on the windowsill, Klaue aims his SONIC DISRUPTER.
on okoye		As she twists through the air , her feet remain planted on a shredded piece of the cars' roof. She l ands on her feet, speed-skating to a stop .
on nakia		Nakia skids up next to Okoye on the driver's seat , still buckled in .
ross		Hop in . Put that spear in the trunk .
shuri		I ' m going as fast as I can !
klaue		Take a right , take a right !
klaue		You savages didn ' t deserve it . T'Challa grabs him by the throat and slams him into the SUV.
t' challa		Every breath you take is mercy from me.
ng		cellphones as SIRENS can be heard in the distance .
ross		Come on guys , let's go huh? T'Challa eyes around. He has little choice and nods.
klaue		Hello! I can see you ! I can , I can see you.
ross		So, this is a big mess, huh? I figured we can go good cop bad cop . I'll talk to him first, then you guys go in -- Okoye turns to T'Challa .  OKOYE Better to let him talk to Klaue alone for 5 minutes than to make a scene here .  59 .
ross		What? No. Look I like you, a lot. But he's in my custody now. He's not going anywhere . Listen , I 'm doing you a favor by letting you even be in here. Ross reaches out and touches T'Challa . Okoye steps in.
ross		Does she speak English?
okoye		When she wants to. Ross and Okoye eye each other for a long beat.
ross		I'm going in . And when I'm done, you guys are up.
ross		Yea. T'Challa puts his hand on Ross's shoulder .
ross		You see that? It's called diplomacy . You're welcome. Ross walks through the door, closing it behind him .
okoye		Eh , Americans ...
klaue		You know, you really shouldn ' t trust the Wakandans. I'm much more your speed.
ross		I don't trust anybody, not in this job . But what I am interested in is that arm cannon out there. Where'd you get that?
klaue		It's an old mining tool that I made some adjustments to. But I can get you one if you'd like .
ross		Why don't you give me the name of your supplier and I'll ask them.
klaue		He's right outside , why don't you ask him yourself?
ross		T' Challa? You're telling me that weapon on your arm is from Wakanda? Klaue nods.
klaue		Bingo .
ross		Shepherds . Textiles . Cool outfits. Ross stops as we notice a MICRO AUDIO BUG on his shoulder that T'Challa planted before he entered the room .
klaue		It's all a front . Explorers searched for it for centuries . El Dorado : The Golden City . They thought they could find it in South America, but it was in Africa the whole time . A technological marvel. All because it was built on a mound of the most valuable metal known to man- Isipho- they call it . The gift . Vibranium ...
ross		Vibranium yea . Strongest metal on Earth.
klaue		It's not just a metal ... They sew it into their clothes , it powers their city, their tech, their weapons ...
ross		Weapons?
klaue		Oh yes . Makes my arm cannon look like a leaf blower .
ross		That's a nice fairy tale but Wakanda is a third world country and you stole all their vibranium .
ross		Your father to l d the UN that Klaue stole all the vibraniurn you had . But now he's telling me you have more?
ross		How much more are you hiding? Then suddenly . . . Nakia SLAMSthrough the door . CIA AGENTS draw their weapons. Nakia is unfazed.
klaue		I see you took your time didn't you ! Killmonger continues to FIRE as Lirnbani and Linda hop in and begin to pull off.
nakia		He just jumped in front of me. Gravely wounded, Ross is barely conscious .
okoye		Our missions was to bring back Klaue . We failed . This man is a foreign intelligence operative. How do we justify bringing him into our borders?
nakia		He took a bullet for me.
okoye		That was his choice . T'Challa stiffens. Okoye has gone a little too far. Torn, Nakia stares off, thinking about the Nigerian women they didn't bring back to Wakanda and her culpability in Ross' injury .
nakia		So now we are just supposed to let him die?
okoye		Let us consider that we heal him. It is his duty to report back to his country. And as King, it is your duty to protect ours.
afternoon		Shuri covertly l eads T'Challa , Okoye and Nakia inside , carrying Ross ' s body on a Maglev stretcher. She turns to T'Challa .
shuri		Great , another broken white boy for us to fi x. This is going to be fun. T' Challa cuts Shuri a look .
noon		Ros s is placed on a table surrounded by futuri s tic medical equipment . As Shuri works on him .
shuri		He will live . The security alarm on Shuri's Kimoyo bead GOES OFF.
w' kabi		Slipped? For 30 years your father was in power and did nothing . With you I thought it would be different . But it's more of the same . Deeply disappointed , W' Kabi can't muster words . He looks at T'Challa and wal ks out .
limbani		Let's get going, boss.
killmonger		You always sell to the CIA?
klaue		I sell to the highest bidder . Don' t you worry when I get back to Jo- burg and lay low for a bit, I ' ll make sure both you guys get paid.
killmonger		Oh I ain't worried about the money, bro . I know you're good for it . Klaue smiles.
klaue		You don't wanna go there, boy .
killmonger		Yea I do . Killmonger suddenly draws a HANDGUN and SHOOTSLIMBANI DEAD. Reacting to the shot , Klaue crowds Linda with a skilled GRAPPLINGMOVEand snatches her gun away before she can fire on him . Killmonger finds Klaue holding Linda's gun to her head, using her as his shield .
linda		I'm sorry . I'm sorry , Erik .
killmonger		It's gonna be ok . Killmonger fires without hesitation . The BULLET TRAVELS THROUGH Linda , ki lli ng her while Klaue dives behind the plane , WOUNDED THE SHOULDER IN from the round . Killmonger moves to finish Klaue but he's gone . Following Klaue's blood trail , Killmonger STALKS Klaue through the
klaue		... Y-You really wanna go to Wakanda? They're savages. Klaue shows his BRANDEDneck .
killmonger		I ain't worried about no brand . Check these out. Killmonger rolls up his sleeve , uncovering SEVERALAFRICAN SCARIFICATION MARKSon his forearm .
klaue		You can sca r yourself as much as you like . To them , you'll just be an outsider. You're crazy to think that you could walk in there . Killmonger flips the inside of his bottom lip, revealing a glowing Wakandan TATTOO. Klaue can't believe his eyes .
zuri		So your mission did not go as planned .
zuri		That is not possible .
t' challa		He helped Klaue escape from us and he was wearing this ring . My grandfather ' s ring . Do not tell me what is possible tell me the truth .
zuri		Some truths are too much to bear , T'Challa.
zuri		I promised the King to say nothing .
zuri		Your uncle took a War Dog assignment in America . Your father placed me there to observe unbeknownst to him. Your uncle fell in love with an American woman. They had a child . The hardships he saw there radicalized your uncle.
zuri		He knew your father would not support this , so your uncle betrayed us.
zuri		He helped Klaue steal the vibranium .
aiming		it at James/Young Zuri's head, freezing him .
zuri		To save my life .
zuri		We left him .
flashback		One of the young kids playing basketball, who is now revealed to be YOUNG KILLMONGER stands looking up at the sky where the mysterious lights flickered.
zuri		We had to maintain the lie . Gutted , T'Challa can't reconcile what he's just heard . He turns his back on Zuri .
killmonger		Just a 'lil gift . Killmonger opens his bag , revealing KLAUE'S CORPSE W'Kabi's
ross		Alright, where am I? Startled, Shuri spins .
shuri		Don't scare me like that, colonizer .
ross		Colon-who? My name is Everett .
shuri		Yes , I know . Everett Ross former airforce pilot and now, CIA.
ross		Right. Groggy, Ross gazes around at the completely unique technology .
ross		... How long ago was Korea?
ross		I don't think so . Bullet wounds don't just magically heal overnight.
ross		These train things ... that's magnetic levitation, right?
ross		Obviously ... but I've never seen it this efficient . The light panels, what are they?
ross		Sonic what?
shuri		There is vibranium all around us. That's how I healed you. Ross tries to process this as a 3D PROJECTION OF OKOYE unexpectedly forms.
ross		He's not a Wakandan . He's one of ours.
t' challa		He killed his own brother ... and left a child behind with nothing . What kind of King  . . what kind of man does that?
nakia		No man is perfect . Not even your father.
nakia		Hey . Look at me. You can't let your father ' s mistakes define who you are . You get to decide what kind of King you are going to be. They share a look as T'C ha l la's Kimoyo beads buzz .
shuri's projection		Brother , you need to get here now. T' Chall a and Nakia look at each othe r.
ross		Eric Stevens . Graduated Annapolis age 19 . MIT for grad school . Joined the SEALs and went to Afghanistan where he racked up confirmed kills like it was a video game . They him Killmonger . He
started calling		joined a JSOC ghost unit .
shuri		He has a War Dog tattoo but we have no record of him . T' Challa and Shuri share a look .
killmonger		I'm standing in your house . Serving justice to a man who stole your vibranium and murdered your people . Justice your King couldn't deliver. T'Challa walks close enough to Killmonger to be able to whisper to him .
ger		I want the throne . The entire room scoffs at this . Some ELDERS even hold their heads back and laugh .
killmonger		Y'all sittin' up here comfortable. Must feel good . There's about 2 billion people all over the world that looks like us but their lives are a lot harder , Wakanda has the tools to liberate them all .
killmonger		Vibranium . Your weapons.
killmonger		Not your own? But didn't life start here , on this continent? So ain ' t all people your people?
ramonda		Son , we have entertained this charlatan for too long. Reject his request . Killmonger eyes the Elders with an amused grin .
killmon ger		Oh, I ain't requesting nothing ! Ask who I am?
shuri		You are Eric Stevens. An American black operative . A mercenary nicknamed Killmonger. That's who you are .
ger		Ask me.
killmonger		I found my daddy with Panther claws in his chest . You ain't the son of a King you're the son of a murderer!
ramonda		  Lies.  W'KABI I'm afraid not Queen Mother .
killmonger		Hey Auntie .
ramonda		Do not do this T'Challa.
bordertribe elder		As the son of N'Jobu he is within his rights .
ramonda		He has no rights here.
killmonger		Weeks? I don't need weeks. The whole country ain't gotta be there I just need him ... and somebody to get me out of these chains.
ramonda		T'Challa, what do you know of this?
to		The Tribal Elders , W'Kabi , and the Dora look on from their respective places . Shuri watches with Ramonda , but the stands are entirely empty .
shuri		He will never beat T' Challa . He should have just come to t he first challenge and gotten it over with . Ramonda looks concerned . She ' s not so sure.
zuri		The King will now have the strength of the Black Pa nther stripped away . Staring T'Challa down, Killmonger suddenly turns to Zuri . They recognize each other. Zuri looks away ashamed.
okoye		Where is Agent Ross?
nakia		I locked him in the office . He's not going anywhere.
pool		T' Challa holds his short spear and shield. He stares at his cousin .
killmon ger		I lived my entire life waiting for this moment. I trained, I lied, I killed, just to get here. He takes off his vest and tears at his shirt, revealing the SCARIFICATION MARKSthat go up his arm and across his entire back. They number in the hundreds .
t' challa		Yield ! Killrnonger FEROCIOUSLY BOBS INSIDE , but T'Challa lunges at Killrnonger, giving him a superficial SLASH ACROSS his cheek. Fueled by rage, Killmonger begins to overpower T'Challa . He slices T'Challa ' s thigh .
shuri		Snap out of it T'Challa!
pool		Wielding both blades , Killmonger slashes deep across T'Challa's stomach, then spins, CUTTING deep into his bicep.
nakia		Get up .
pool		He continues to PUNCHT'CHALLA REPEATEDLYuntil he topples over.
killmonger		This is for my father . Killmonger walks swiftly toward T'Challa to deliver his deathblow .. . only to have a guilt-ridden Zuri STOP HIM with his SPEAR knocking his blade away .
okoye		Zuri .
ramonda		Zuri don ' t !
zuri		I am the cause of your father's death. Not him . Take me . Regrouping, Killrnonger grabs Zuri's spear . T'Challa labors to get up but can't .
killmonger		I'll take you both , Uncle James ... Killmonger skewers Zuri with his spear. Killmonger drives the spear in further and GRABBINGTHE BLADE with both hands in death, Zuri falls with it to the shallow water as T'Challa watches in utter torment .
killmonger		Is this your King? Huh? T'Challa swings his spear, Killmonger ducks .
ayo		Is there nothing that can be done?
killmonger		Him? He's supposed to protect you. Killmonger ducks another attack from T'Challa and scoops him onto his shoulders .
ramonda		No.
pool		Killmonger heaves T'Challa off the waterfall. Staggered, everyone watches T'Challa DISAPPEAR BELOWto his death . Ramonda screams .
killmonger		Nah . I'm your King .
pool		Staggered , the new Shaman gives him the Panther necklace . Everyone slowly salutes Killmonger .
okoye		The Queen Mother and Shuri ... they are safe? Nakia nods .
okoye		  cannot . . .  I
nakia		What ...
okoye		Though my heart is with you .
nakia		We cannot turn over our nation to a man who showed up here only hours ago .
okoye		He is of royal blood.
nakia		He killed T ' Challa .
okoye		In ritual combat .
nakia		Does that really matter? Okoye quiets .
okoye		Overthrow? ! Nakia , I am not a spy who can come and go as they so choose. I am loyal to the throne, no matter who sits upon it . What are you loyal to?
nakia		I loved him. I love my country too .
okoye		Then you serve your country.
nakia		No. I save my country . Nakia takes off.
ross		What's wrong? Nakia tosses the blanket to Ross.
nakia		The King is dead . Come with me, unless you want to join him . Ross's heart sinks as . . .
nakia		It's me.
ramonda		Nakia. Who is this man?
nakia		He's a friend of T ' Challa's he saved my life . Ramonda studies Ross , then looks to Nakia.
ramonda		Where is Okoye?
nakia		Okoye is not corning . She and Dora Milaje will serve the new King.
ramonda		What has happened to our Wakanda? Nakia turns and heads into an even thicker BATCHOF FOLIAGE.
shaman		Allow the Heart Shaped Herb to give you the powers of the Black Panther and take you to the Ancestral Plane.
youngkillmonger		Your home .
wakandan		Young Killmonger flips down his lip , touching his tattoo .
youngkillmonger		Why?
youngkillmonger		But, I'm right here . doesn ' t have an answer for this .
killmonger		Well maybe your home is the one that's lost . That's why they can't find us. N'Jobu stares at his son , heartbroken .
shaman		Breathe, my King . Breathe !
killmonger		The Heart Shaped Herb did that? The shaman nods.
shaman		Yes . So when it comes time for another King, we will be ready .
killmonger		Another King .. . yea go ahead and burn all that . Alarmed , the shamans don't move, hoping Killmonger doesn't mean it ... but he does .
shaman		My King , we cannot do that . It is our tradition -- Killmonger smiles , the n quick l y grabs the Shaman by the throat .
killmonger		When I tell you to do something , I mean that shit . Burn it all ! He lets her go as she gasps for air . Shell-shocked , the shamans move into action .
on nakia		Nakia digs out a flawless Heart Shaped Herb and in an instant darts back for the catacombs , glancing back at Killmonger from the shadows .
killmonger		You know, where I'm from, when black folks started revolutions , they never had the firepower or resources to fight their oppressors . Where was Wakanda? Hmm? Yea all that ends today. We got spies embedded in every nation on Earth . Already in place . Killmonger stands and walks looking each of them in the eye.
okoye		Wakanda has survived for so long by fighting when only absolutely necessary.
killmonger		You heard your orders. Let's get to it. W'Kabi salutes while Okoye looks on .
ross		So where are we going again?
nakia		We're taking the Heart Shaped Herb to Jabariland .
ross		Heart Shaped Herb , what is that?
shuri		It gives whoever takes it heightened abilities .
nakia		It's what made T'Challa so strong . Ramonda stops in her tracks.
ramonda		Nakia. I don't like this. The Herb belongs to us. We may be creating a bigger monster with M'Baku.
nakia		I'm a spy with no army . I wouldn't stand a chance .
ramonda		We'll go . They keep walking. Suddenly , they are surrounded by MEMBERS
nakia		Stay calm .
ramonda		My son was murdered in ritual combat .
nakia		Yes, but . . .
shuri		Do not rub our noses in it --
ross		Look uh, your highness, the new King is a -- M'Baku drowns out Ross' voice with loud barks. The surrounding Jabari follow suit .
nakia		Great Gorilla M'Baku. This is why we are here. To offer this to you. An outsider s i ts on our throne. Only you can help us stop him . M'Baku considers . His ego stroked. But .. .
nakia		Impossible .
m' baku		He is in a coma , barely clinging to life .
shuri		Why do you have him in the snow? !
m' baku		It is the only thing keeping him from joining the ancestors .
shuri		We need to get him to my lab! I can heal him there .
ramonda		Nakia , the Herb . Ramonda takes the herb from Nakia and pushes past M'Baku who looks on.
ramonda		I call upon the ancestors. I call upon Bast . I am here with my son T'Challa . Heal him . We must bury him .
nakia		Wake up, T'Challa . Wake up .
t' chaka		He ... he was the truth I chose to omit .
nakia		Killmonger has the full support of our military . And he burned the garden of the Heart Shaped Herb.
ross		Of course he did . The T'Challa turns to Ross .
shuri		Our vibranium . All of my designs .
t' challa		He will send our weapons all over the world . T' Challa turns to Nakia .
ramonda		What?
shuri		What about you?
ramonda		T' Challa , we will not leave Wakanda.
t' challa		It is my duty to keep you safe .
shuri		If he gets control of our technology , no where will be safe . Shuri pulls T'Challa's PANTHERTOOTHNECKLACEfrom her pocket and places it on his neck . T'Challa smiles .
nakia		As will I. T'Challa smiles he looks to Nakia and Ramonda who looks back at him with confidence .
ross		I'm in too. The Wakandans cut Ross a look
killmonger		Have the spies been alerted?
ar		in London , New York and Hong Kong are standing by .
killmon ger		We'll strike there first . The others will come around . Killmonger picks up a Kingsguard spear.  KILLMONGER  Look at this. A handheld sonic cannon powerful enough to stop a tank . Untraceable by metal detectors, and we got thousands of 'em. The world's gonna find out exactly who we are . Across from them, a TALONFIGHTER takes off, loaded with cargo . Killmonger watches, then turns to W'Kabi. As they smile the talon fighter EXPLODESin the air above them, startling Killmonger, W'Kabi, Okoye and the remaining Wakandans . They watch in shock as the debris rains down from the sky . Killmonger looks closely , trying to make something out.
okoye		He lives . ..
on panther		As he walks closer to the lip of the mound and retracts his mask .
ger		Wassup?
killmonger		All that challenge shit is over with . I'm the King now.  Copy that .  INT. SHURI'S LAB, HALLWAY,
killmonger		W'Kabi , kill this clown .
okoye		W'Kabi , the challenge is not complete .
bordertribe commander		What will we do? The Border Tribe soldiers look on at T'Challa and grow visibly nervous.
bordertribe		Ay ! Ay 1
okoye		You! Your heart is so full of hatred you are not fit to be a King . She slams her spear and the Dora fall in line behind her as Killmonger stares her down . Killmonger pulls his blades, and activates his PANTHERSUIT from his necklace as Talon Fighters take off in the background .
ross		Ok, so what do I do? Shuri slips a kimoyo bead bracelet on Ross ' hand .
ross		What?
ross		You guys have hoverbikes? Shuri raises a sand table. She hurries back to the first table , grabs the gauntlets and points out some Dora armor .
nakia		I'm not a Dora.
ross		Yea I don ' t know what I'm doing --
nakia		We're counting on you!
doramilaje 1		Wakanda Forever . Killmonger then slits her throat with his vibranium sword . Okoye, devastated , leads another attack on Killmonger .
ross		Alright , I'm on it .  EXT. MT. BASHENGA TOP OF THE HILL - DAY
downhill		T'Challa runs full speed next to RHINO #2 swings around its horn and does a takedown maneuver causing the Rhino to fall into the TRENCHleft by the wing of the TALONFIGHTER. T'Challa flips out of the trench while the Rhino is trapped by the steep incline .
nakia		Wakanda Forever !! He moves towards them with rage in his eyes . He engages Shuri and Nakia in battle , Nakia holds her own with her advanced ringblades while Shuri strafes from the side with her panther gaunt l ets-- shooting Killmonger from a distance .
ross		Ok Shuri , I got 'em what do I do?
ross		Alright ... Ross places his hands on the firing mechanism .
ross		Alright , I got 'em.
airspace		The DRAGONFLYER PILOTS see the cargo ship drop and turn back around towards the RTF. THREE DRAFONGFLYERS immediately begin firing at the RTF.  ROSS  Oh shit shit shit .
in		air, and into a large rock .
downhill		On the ground, Panther is suddenly swarmed by Border Tribesmen and PINNED DOWN,stabbed, kicked and slashed with blades by the mob. He sees Killmonger in the distance closing in on Shuri , and then expels the kinetic energy in his suit and . . . WHAM! ! !
killmon ger		What's up, Princess?
shuri		Okay !  EXT. MT. BASHENGA TOP OF THE HILL - DAY
killmonger		I don't need a suit to kill you . They look at each other from across the blinding fast train .
killmonger		No I learn from my enemies -- beat them at their own game .
killmonger		The world took away everything away from me! Everything I ever loved ! But I'm gonna make sure we're even.
shuri		Nakia! Are you alright?
nakia		I'm ok . You?
shuri		Yes .
nakia		Let's go . They join the fight with Okoye and Ayo.
ross		Shuri, I've lost one of them but two are on my tail .
ross		What the hell was that?
ross		What? Where?
ross		How long have I got?
ross		Put me back in.
okoye		Phambili !!!!
ross		Shuril The last cargo ship is almost at the border , but they've got me trapped with some kind of cables .
ross		Yes ! We did it !
okoye		Drop your weapon .
okoye		For Wakanda?  Without question . W'Kabi sees the fire in Okoye's eyes . He looks around at the battlefie l d where the remaining Border Tribesmen are surrendering to the Jabari and Dora . W'Kabi looks at Okoye for long beat, then throws his sword into the dirt and kneels in front of her .
killmon ger		This is it for you , cousin . T'Challa turns towards the train and sees that it is about to end. He lets Killmonger swing towards him and dodges , backing up even closer to the edge of the track, and Killmonger swings again - but this time T'Challa punches Killmonger's arm , jarring the blade lose and sending it flying up into the air. T'Challa then does a ROLLING ARMBAR TAKEDOWN the
as broken		SPEAR flips through the air. We track with the spear as the SONIC STABILIZATION FIELD turns off , and the train passes the two fighters . As the BROKENSPEAR drops T'Challa catches it with his right hand and slams it into Killmonger's chest, just as both their suits form around them . Killmonger removes his helmet , then looks down at the blade that is buried in his chest . T'Challa, realizing this is it , removes his mask as well.
killmonger		It's beautiful . T'Challa thinks for a long beat.
killmonger		Why? So you can just lock me up? Nah . Just bury me in the ocean, with my ancestors that jumped from the ships . . . 'cause they knew death was better than bondage. Killmonger pulls the knife out of his chest, killing himself instantly. T'Challa looks down at his cousin's now lifeless body and becomes emotional.
nakia		There is nothing to thank me for. It is our duty to . .. it was my duty to fight for what I love . I should
shuri		When you said you would take me to California for the first time, I thought you meant Coachella, or Disneyland . Why here?
shuri		They are tearing it down. Good.
shuri		You're kidding ! T'Challa hits a button on his Kimoyo bead , and the RTF comes out of cloaking , revealing itself to have been parked behind the kids playing basketball . A YOUNG BLACKKID turns back to see the ship as the other kids collectively lose their shit .
youngblack kid		What . ..
youngblackkid		Hey yo ! Is this yours?
a frenchambassador		can't help but lean into his microphone .
frenchambassador		With all due respect , King T'Challa , what can a nation of farmers offer to the rest of the world? There are a few chuckles from the gallery . Nakia , Okoye and Ayo share a look. T'Challa smiles .
shuri		Are you playing around with that man again?
child		No. Nol
shuri		You're teasing him again? Bucky exits the hut to the sight of a beautiful Wakandan lakeside. He takes it all in with a deep breath . Outside the hut are WAKANDAN SHAMAN  and SHURI, embracing the three giggling CHILDREN TWODORAMILAJE observe Shuri
wakandanchildren		Emhlophe Ingcuka.  Bucky settles next to Shuri taking in her view of the lake.
shuri		Good morning , Sgt . Barnes .
bucky		Bucky .
shuri		How are you feeling?
bucky		Good. Thank you. Shuri smiles.
shuri		Come. Much more for you to learn.
****Dialogues from script :Black_Rain.txt****

nick		One, and one on top.
dealer		House sees.
player one		 I'm out.
debutante		 I see the deuce, and one to chase them home.
nick		Call.
debutante		 Ladies, aces wired.  Sorry sport.
nick		Very nice, Barbie.  Now, I'd take Ken over there and go home.
debutante		Why's that?
nick		It's time.  That's all.
boyfriend		The lady wants to play.  Someone should teach you to be a better loser, loser.
nick		Listen, Ken --
boyfriend		My name is not Ken --
nick		-- I'm offering you the benefit of my experience.
debutante		Looks like you have a lot of experience in places like this.  It was nice of them to relax the dress code for you.
charlie		Typical New York woman, big attitude, small apartment, no tits.
charlie		I think she got to you, pappy.
nick		 You want a popsicle, go to Good Humor.  And don't call me 'pappy.'
charlie		 Still, you gotta wonder how she'd look in handcuffs.
nick		 Alley oop.
zachara		Settle down.  Hey, quiet... Please.
nick		SHUT THE HELL UP, GODDAMNIT!
nick		My name is Conklin.  Let's do this fast so I can go home.
nick		 It's all yours.
zachara		 Under section 216 of the New York State Penal code, I serve notice that this premise and it's occupants...
charlie		Whoa -- where do you think you're going, hotdog.
nick		 Fabulous...
charlie		 ... It's not like you were slow or anything... I think you did just fine.  I think you did great.
nick		Thanks.
charlie		Hey, hey, where you goin'?
nick		Home.
charlie		Wait up.  You know the guy who did the Weismuller through the window --
nick		-- Cavello.  Ronnie Cavello.
charlie		You know him?
nick		He works for Frank Abolofia. Atlantic City.  Casinos.
charlie		So why dive through the glass for a nickel and dime bust?
nick		What's this?
charlie		Let go...
charlie		Back-up.
nick		Get rid of it.
charlie		Why?
nick		It's not regulation.  And the only way you're gonna stop anybody with it is to show it to him, and while he's laughing, you can shove it down his throat.
charlie		 I'll get rid of it when you get rid of the egg-beater.
charlie		Nick, let's go hunting.  Bag Cavello.
nick		Charlie...
nick		... You still got shaving cream on your ear.
nick		Short shift?
connie		Yeah... I came to save you.  If you're hopeless, I'll pull the plug.
connie		It's getting too cold even for me, Nick.
nick		Connie...
connie		All right, how's the new partner?
nick		High spirits, desire, commitment.
connie		You'll take care of that.
nick		Give me a break, would you?
connie		If you give me one.
nick		Are you expecting anyone?
connie		I wasn't expecting you.
connie		 Imagine a small, greasy Boy Scout.
charlie		... I found the goombah... Cavello. He's --
nick		-- I should tear your head off.
charlie		Whoa, I knew you were going to say that.  I absolutely anticipated that, Nick.  But I said to myself, Charlie, Charlie, we can move up on this, so go find Nicklaus... He'll be pissed for a moment, but then it'll dawn on him --
nick		-- Hey, I got a better chance of being hit by a bus then moving up.
charlie		... Look... they told me at the Greek's you were here.  I'm sorry, I never imagined...
charlie		 For her age.
charlie		What are they doing now?
nick		Eating Scungilli, just like the last time you asked.
charlie		Who do you think the Jap is?
nick		Maybe Cavello's buying a Subaru. How would I know?
charlie		I don't blame you for being sore. It'll pass when we bag him.
charlie		Whatdaya think?  'Bostonians'. Eighty-five bucks.  Hey, I read it in a magazine.
nick		 Charlie, don't do anything.  Promise me?
charlie		What?
nick		Frank Abolofia.
charlie		The Wolf?
nick		 Some party.
charlie		Maybe we should do something?
nick		Charlie, take your gum, stick it under your ass and keep it warm.
number one		 Give it to me.
businessman		 Go to hell.
charlie		 What are you doing?
nick		Saving your life.
abolofia		You people are wild... Wild.
nick		 Get back up.
charlie		 Police.
charlie		Call 911.  Tell them an officer needs assistance.  Say ten thirteen.
charlie		Do it, you dumb bastard!
charlie		NICK...!  Shit... SHIT!!
nick		On the ground, man.  NOW!!
oliver		How big a package we talking about?
nick		 This by this...
oliver		Dope?
nick		Not in that company.
oliver		The old man was a Japanese paper manufacturer.  Hotel room and rental car were full of it.
charlie		Full of what?
oliver		 Art and stationary paper.  Cavello had five hundred thousand in his attache case.
oliver		One guy do all the damage?
nick		Yeah.
oliver		Thought you knew your way around dark alleys, detective.
techie		... The old man's suit was Japanese. The hitter's was Saville row.  No I.D.  We're doing a peel now.
techie		There's something you got to see.
techie		What's wrong with this picture?
charlie		 I got a tattoo.  Birdie on the ball. We all got them when we finished basic at Camp Lejune.
nick		Charlie.
techie		I thought you guys were trained observers?
techie		Eight fingers.  Hey, it was a trick question.
abolofia		He was with a friend, sure.  I shake hands with the guy and a minute later he's bleeding all over my socks.
attorney		Will that do officers?  My client has had a terrible shock.
nick		Yeah, he's not used to seeing other people do the killing.
attorney		I won't tolerate harassment!
oliver		What about the package?
attorney		We know nothing about it.
abolofia		Hard to believe a trained police officer could let this kind of thing happen right in front of his face.
nick		I did make a mistake.  I let the wrong guy get hit.
abolofia		Cheer up, Nick.  I'm sure it's easier to pick a dead man's pocket.
attorney		That's it, we're through!
oliver		Doesn't speak a word of English. And he won't speak Japanese either. No papers.  The Japanese embassy is very interested.
nick		Why?
oliver		He's wanted in Japan.  They want him first.  Then we can have him.
nick		What?
oliver		Japanese embassy talks to state department.  State talks to police plaza.  They to me and me to you. Shit rolls down hill.
oliver		You and Charlie are taking the Jap home, tonight.
nick		What...?  What if I say no?
oliver		Check your gun before you leave. They're not allowed in Japan.  It's a nice, safe country.
nick		Why me?
oliver		They said send a detective if I could spare one.  I can always spare you.
nick		 You got something to say to me, Captain?
oliver		Yeah.  Have a wonderful flight.
charlie		... Nick, you're the one that's always saying you never go anywhere.
nick		I was thinking the Poconos, Charlie. Maybe Vegas.
charlie		What are you missing?  Riding your motorcycle to the nurse's house. That shit is sadder than Ethiopia.
nick		Beats forty hours on a plane.
charlie		They say we got to turn around and come right back.  That's what they say.  I got a plan.
charlie		I call, right?  I say I got the dreaded thirty six-hour Asian shits from some raw clam and we stretch it into three days.  You and I become a driving force on the local Geisha scene.
nick		Not a prayer.
charlie		 Hey, come on, big guy like you, cop from New York.  You're gonna be the biggest thing to hit town since Godzilla.
charlie		Says here, it's very impolite to touch someone while you're talking to them...  Guess that means you can't talk and screw at the same time, huh, hotdog? What's the matter, no -- speaky-the- language?  Understand this:  You will never ever fuck with my partner again.
nick		Shut-up, Charlie.
nick		What'd you say?
charlie		Where is the subway station, please.
nick		Get a new book.
charlie		Nick... You up?
nick		No.
charlie		Nick, have I been a good partner?
nick		Number five with a bullet.
charlie		I just want you to know... I mean anybody who says you ever took has got to deal with me.
nick		Go to sleep, Charlie.
charlie		You didn't take, did you...?  You hear things.
nick		I worked the three nine in Queens, Charlie.
charlie		 I didn't know.
nick		The lieutenant was on the pad along with the rest of the squad.  I was new, didn't know shit.  When the feathers flew, I got called in front of the special prosecutor.  It's on the top of my personnel file.  They think I'm dirty or I cut a deal. Doesn't leave you with a lot of friends either way.
nick		I might as well have done something. I've been paying for it every goddamn day since I got transferred...
charlie		Whoa.  Nick, we're in paradise.
nagashima		Officers Conklin and -- and...  ... gentlemen, welcome.  I am assistant inspector Nagashima.
nick		You going to take this crap off our hands?
nagashima		 Crap...?  Oh, the prisoner.  Yes.
charlie		 Charlie.  Kon-ich-iwa.
nagashima		If you will please give this to the customs inspector he will expidate -- expedite you.  We have a car and a driver outside.
nick		Right.
charlie		 Arigato.
nick		Givin' you a book is like givin' a baby a gun.
charlie		Hey, when in Rome --
nick		In Rome, I'll bow.
nick		Inspector Nagashima told me to give you this.
inspector		 You must get in line behind the rest.
nick		We're cops.  Pol-ice-men.
nick		Fellas, get serious.
kobo		 Thanks for the ride, detective.
nick		Cops!  He's our prisoner!
nick		What's going on?  We're the good guys!
nick		Get me something like an Identi-Kit and I'll give you a description.
charlie		There must be some witnesses from the airport?
nick		What is it, tea time?
ohashi		 You lost a man we wanted for some time.  It was very incompetent on your part, officer.
nick		Incompetent is letting people waltz through a secure area wearing your uniforms, carrying official documents.
nick		I want a gun.
ohashi		It is not allowed.
nick		We're police officers.
ohashi		You're foreigners.
nick		Work with me.  I want your best detective.
nick		Hey, inspector, I don't intend to take the rap for this.
ohashi		 Do you know what this is?
ohashi		It's a laundry list.  Go home, detective.
nick		Let's go.
charlie		Nick, we can't just --
nick		I said let's go, Charlie.
ohashi		What are you doing?!
nick		Your best detective, Ohashi.
charlie		... Detective Ich-iro Matsu-moto. Hey, we're getting Mr. Moto on our side.
nick		Let's grab some food.
charlie		First decent idea you've had.
charlie		Food... Food, here we go.  Tokyo offers a wide variety of food.  It's best to sample the local specialties, including sashaimi, soba, and world renown Kobe beef...
charlie		This should be it...
nick		You said that in the last two places.
charlie		Kore?  Doku?  Kore doku?
nick		Okay, you were right.
charlie		This the right place?
nick		I hope not.
charlie		Konichiwa.  Ichiro Matsumoto?
charlie		 Getting very weird.
nick		I'd feel better if we had some heat.
charlie		Maybe we should bail?
nick		 Think we could find our way back?
ich		 Detective Ichiro Matsumoto.  I'm the man you're looking for.
ich		The man you are looking for, Kobo, was a member of the Samaguchi-gummi. A Yakuza.
nick		Where do we start looking for this guy?
ich		Where would you look for the mafia?
charlie		The back room at Lombardi's after the Columbus Day Parade.  Under the bed.  In the mayor's office. Everywhere.
nick		Where're you going, Ichiro?
ich		 And call me Ich.
ich		 To the killer.  Jerry Lee Lewis.
nick		 Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis, Dinky Doo And The Don't's.  Let's book, Charlie.  If he starts on Motown, we'll be here all night.
ich		No, this is the place for the young Yakuza.
nick		That's what you said in the last three piss pots.
ich		I love you people.  The music, the clothes, the movies... Japanese respect only what is Japanese.
nick		It's incredible.  Hit him or something.
charlie		I don't think he'd feel it.
ich		 Americans change everything.  When I was young the city was wood and paper... I was ten when the bombers came.  I lived underground for three days.  When I came up, the city was gone... A ball of fire.
ich		It began to rain, Nick.  You know what color the rain was?
ich		Black... It was black from the ash. Very impressive.  You Americans, you could make black rain.
charlie		 Say Ich, between friends, where can I grab some squish around here?
ich		Squid?
charlie		Pussy, ass, soft personnel.
ich		Ah, Joyce...  How are you tonight?
joyce		 Hello, Ich.  Johnny Walker?
nick		Don't give him any more.
joyce		He gets as much as he wants.
charlie		Hello hello, Charlie Skloaris.  New York City.
charlie		My partner and I are cops.  When do you get off?
joyce		Right when you're being tucked into bed.
ich		You should be nicer to my American friends, Joyce.
joyce		They wouldn't appreciate it, Ich. Trust me.
ich		Joyce can be nice.
charlie		 What'd she say?
ich		 Kampai.
ich		... We got to keep looking.  Track him down!  Great balls of fire!
nick		 What's the problem here?
ich		Ah, Joyce...
ich		 See you tomorrow!
nick		Not a prayer.
charlie		... He's a sorry old guy, but I like him.
nick		He couldn't find his ass with both hands.
charlie		Now that's the kind of motorcycle I want to see you on.
nick		 Sure, a rice burning crotch rocket...
charlie		Nick, how we gonna bag this guy without any help?  Maybe I should work on that girl Joyce, she speaks the language.
nick		Give us a break...
nick		Leave the rice cake outside and go home!
ich		There's been a murder.  Yakuza.  You should come.
nick		Could you fill me in?
ohashi		Why don't you ask your chief detective?
nick		Because I want you to tell me.
ohashi		The young are eating the old, something that usually doesn't happen here.
nick		Can we skip the poetry, inspector?
ohashi		There's a war, detective, between two rival groups.  The man who escaped, Kobo, leads the younger group.  They did this.
ich		Kobo's a wild boy.  He was a lieutenant in the Sammaguchi-gummi.
ohashi		 Excellent, Officer Matsumoto.  How is your investigation going?
ich		 Well, sir.  Thank you for giving me the opportunity to work with these distinguished gentlemen.
police lieutenant		Looking for clues in the bottom of a sake bottle, Matsumoto?
ohashi		He's an officer of great distinction.
charlie		Hey, Ich has been helpful.
ohashi		 Have you changed your mind and decided to go home, detective?
nick		Not until one of us bags Kobo.  And it doesn't look like you're doing so hot.
nick		You know, Inspector, you take shit once, you take shit forever.
ich		 I don't deserve Ohashi's respect.
nick		Why the hell not?
ich		I don't, that's all.
charlie		You cool, Ich?
ich		Cool?
charlie		You all right?  You okay?
charlie		What does Ichiro mean, anyway?
ich		 What does Charlie mean?
charlie		Hey, all right.
nick		Charlie!
nick		 It's a set-up...!  Charlie!
nick		Charlie!
nick		NO!!
ich		Nick!
nick		He was my partner.
nick		I planned on catching him, Captain.
nick		He killed a police officer.
radio		... That was the Bird, from the Blue Note years.  1230 hours and 72 degrees in central Osaka.  This is specialist Doug Dale, Tapestries in Jazz, on the Far East Network, armed forces radio...
nick		What happened?
ich		They made you leave your hotel...  ... you caused a disturbance.
ich		It may be too soon to talk about it. When someone we care for dies we...  ... keep something of their's.  A tie, a pen.
nick		Why weren't you at the platform?
ich		I couldn't keep up.  My shame is complete.
ich		You must leave?
nick		Yeah...
ich		I'll get him for you, Nick.
nick		Yakuza?
nick		... Smoking.
clerk		Aisle or window?
clerk		Aisle or window, sir?
nick		 I want to cash it in.  Yen.
nick		Ichiro?
joyce		Ich said you left.
nick		There was a change in plans.
joyce		I'm sorry about your friend.
joyce		Dead gaiijin's are big news.
nick		Gaiijin?
joyce		An outside person.  A foreigner.  A barbarian.  You, me.  More you.
nick		I could use some help.  Show me around.  I'll pay you for your time.
joyce		I don't give tours.
nick		You can count on the truth from people who don't like you.
joyce		You have a helluva way of asking for help.
nick		You have a helluva way of answering.
joyce		Look, you need Ich.  I've been here five years and I still can't read all the street signs.
nick		Maybe I'm a quicker learner.
joyce		I don't think so.
ich		I've continued working on the case!
nick		I can see that.
ich		 Kobo has disappeared.  My superiors don't trust me.
ich		Kobo's.  Taken off him when he was arrested in New York.
ich		I knew you'd come back.  You feel you have a debt you can never pay. But you will, even if it costs you your life.  Giri.  Honor.
nick		How'd you get this?
ich		I stole them.
ich		Partners, Nicklaus-san?
nick		Partners.
joyce		Busy man.
nick		Know her?
ich		 We can ask someone I used to work with.  A criminal.  Someone I pay money to...
nick		A snitch?
nick		What's he saying?
ich		 He says they're very nice.  He wants to know if you have anymore.
ich		I'll ask him again.
nick		My turn.
nick		Who is she?
ich		Nick, stop.
ich		This man must be treated with respect.
nick		Aw, for Christ's sake.
nick		 Now we're making progress.
nick		That's Kobo's girl?  He's sure?
ich		He's sure.
ich		Nick, no one's seen Kobo in three days.  He might not even be in Tokyo.
nick		Only one way to find out... Get her up in the morning and put her to bed at night.
nick		Think you could keep it to a dull roar?
ich		It's good manners.
ich		You said you could keep up with her! 'No problem, Nick-san.'
nick		 No.  Don't say anything.  Don't do anything, and for Christ's sake, don't apologize!
ich		Nick...
nick		What'd I tell you?
ich		There she is!
ich		You dislike me.
nick		Did I say that?
ich		You toler -- yes, tolerate me.
nick		Are we getting married?
ich		I'm a joke.  They sent you to me to make a fool of you.
nick		You're doing fine, Ich.  Now drop it, okay?
ich		Sure.
nick		Let's book.
nick		Let's go.
ich		You can't do this.
nick		Call a cop.
ich		Nick...
nick		 If you're gonna give me a hard time, wait outside.
nick		Not too shabby for a perfume pusher.
ich		Too bad it's not in yen.
ich		Work, lunch, groceries, laundry... Fabulous...
nick		 Four goddamn days.  This is going nowhere...
joyce		What's the latest?
ich		We'll get him, Joyce.
joyce		She ever pull down her shades?
nick		 Sure, but then I just pull out the photos.
ich		 Chikuwa, Hampen, Kobu, Konnayaku, Ganmodoki --
nick		Ichiro --
ich		 Broiled fish paste cake, Kelp roll, soybean curd, devils tongue --
nick		Smells like Bayonne at low tide.
nick		Whoa whoa...
joyce		Don't be an ass.
nick		He's on duty.
joyce		I paid for that.
nick		Alley oop!
ich		Yakuza.
nick		Good.  Very good...
nick		She disappeared... shit!
ich		You were too far behind.
ich		 Don't say anything more.  Don't do anything.  And, for Christ's sake, don't apologize!
ich		Nicklaus-san!
nick		Hey, no hands, huh?
ich		You can't come in.  They don't want --
nick		Gaiijin.
ich		I'll check it out.
nick		If I smell one drop of Scotch on your breath, my friend --
ich		You can trust me.
ich		 Let me up.
hostess		 Another Seagrams!
ich		 I have to piss, gentlemen... I'm so sorry but I have to --
nick		I don't believe it...  Son-of-a-bitch --
ich		 I'm not drunk...
nick		We're through.  I mean it.  This is the end of the line, Matsumoto.
ich		Nick --
nick		Shut-up.
ich		You shut-up!  Kobo is inside.  He's with Sugai, the head of the Summaguchi-clan.
ich		... A Godfather.  His man was killed at the printing plant.
nick		I want to yank Kobo.
ich		Not without a small army, Nicklaus- san.
nick		Ich, my name is Nick.  Not Nicklaus, not Nicklaus-san, not Nick-san. Nick.
ich		San is an honorable title.
nick		Shit...
ich		 Nick?!
kobo		Keep the change.
nick		I'm taking you back.
kobo		Here I am.
kobo		Charlie was a rookie...
kobo		... But you can take care of yourself.  You're 'the biggest thing to hit this town since Godzilla.'
kobo		What's the matter.  I'm right in front of you, Nick.  But I was right in front of you when you let Charlie die.
kobo		Walk away again.  Maybe you'll get used to it.
ich		Nick!
nick		 A few minutes faster, we might've nailed him.
nick		What's this?
ohashi		Your visa has expired.  Be on a plane in twenty-four hours or you will be deported.
nick		While you were hanging out at the visa office, we found the son-of-a- bitch.
ohashi		Look.
ohashi		You ruined an on-going investigation that could have gotten us more than one runner.  I want a full report in the morning, officer.
nick		Maybe if you'd work with us --
nick		 HEY, I'M TALKING TO YOU, INSPECTOR!
ohashi		 Twenty-four hours, detective.
nick		Ohashi!
ich		Nick, stop!
nick		Damnit, Ichiro, I'm tired of people telling me what I can and can't do. No one ever solved anything sitting on their ass.
nick		The ice help?
nick		Where does this Sugai live?
ich		 A resort city, Beppu.
nick		I want to go talk to him.
ich		What...?  Why?
nick		Because he knows how to get to our man.
ich		He'll never speak to a Gaiijin.
nick		I'll be a nice Gaiijin.
nick		The little bastard.  God bless him.
ich		It's very small.
nick		Big enough.
ich		It's illegal, Nick.
nick		It's a new deal.  ... coming with me tomorrow?
ich		Sugai's not going to be impressed with your gun, Nick.  No.  I won't put myself in danger for you anymore.
nick		Sure, pal.  You've got better things to do.
nick		You know where I can get a decent cup of coffee this time of night? I'm buying.
joyce		Somebody must be suffering somewhere, you're being so nice.
nick		I need your help, Joyce.
joyce		Where's Ich?
nick		Unavailable.
joyce		I've heard of Sugai.  I've also heard of the emperor.  They're both national treasures.  One's a hood.
nick		I need someone to translate for me.
joyce		My Japanese isn't that hot... Besides, you'll never get in.
nick		It's my last shot.  I have to be on a plane home tomorrow night.
joyce		And I'm supposed to care?
nick		You could fake it.
joyce		You're wrong to sell Ich short.
nick		He drinks.
joyce		He's got a reason.
joyce		His son hooked up with some bikers. Yakuza kids.  A cop shot him running from a robbery.
joyce		A father doesn't out live that kind of thing here, much less a police officer...
nick		Where's the wife?
joyce		You met her.
joyce		The woman in the apartment.  She won't speak to him.  But she won't leave either.  Japan... Nice, huh?
joyce		Not wound too tight...
joyce		I'd invite you up but I know you'd hate the incense.  I chant.
nick		What do you chant?
joyce		'Nam oyo ranged kyo.'  You think it's dumb of course.
nick		Not if it works.  I'll meet you at the train?
joyce		I don't remember saying yes.
nick		I don't remember you saying no.
joyce		They want your autograph.
nick		Who am I supposed to be?
joyce		This little guy thinks you're Robert Redford... the other one thinks you're Charles Bronson...
nick		Tell them I'm not.
joyce		They'll never go away.
joyce		Mick Jagger?
nick		I'm sorry, Ichiro.  I lost it last night.  I shouldn't have hit you.
nick		What's in the box?
ich		 For Sugai.  Caviar, French cheese, ham... If you come to apologize for interrupting his meeting, Sugai may feel obligated to see you.
nick		So I bring some cheese?
joyce		Gifts are expected here.
nick		Hey, Ich... Thanks.  I'm glad you're here.  I mean it.
nick		 They took the gift an hour ago.
joyce		 All's not lost.  There's a famous temple here.  We could chant.
nick		We're in?
joyce		The cheese...
joyce		 Just you.
sugai		I'll spare you the ritual.
nick		This supposed to impress me?
sugai		Pick it up.  Look at it.
sugai		Seven years work by the finest engraver.  Mass produced, sequentially numbered.  The best there has ever been, Mr. Conklin.
nick		I'm impressed.  But let's use the short form.  I'm looking for --
sugai		-- Kobo... I know.  He killed two of my partners.  One in New York, one at the printing plant.
nick		I don't drink tea.
sugai		I took Kobo from the street.  I gave him a home, a future... But my ways were too slow for him... I served seven years in prison for my boss when I was a young man.  Kobo wouldn't serve seven minutes for his Oyabun.  He was supposed to take over this syndicate when I retired.
nick		I want him.
sugai		He'll be dealt with.
sugai		Our associates in New York were close to closing a deal with us.
nick		The families who control the casinos?
sugai		Yes.  Unlike our syndicates, your criminals don't understand the words 'honor' and 'duty'... We can't afford not to deal with them.
sugai		Imagine if your families could pay their gambling and drug debts with perfect counterfeit bought for cents on the dollar.
nick		The Feds would be onto you in a month.
sugai		Not with these bills.  And even if it only took them six months, do you know what our profit margin would be?
nick		Why tell me this?
sugai		The other plate is currently in New York, in the hands of Kobo's man. Find it for me.
nick		You trust me?
sugai		I'll pay you.
nick		 With these?
sugai		Swiss bank deposit.  Gold bullion. Whatever you want.  You know the city and the police.
nick		If I say no?
sugai		You're smarter than Kobo.  You know the price of deceit.  Think about it.
nick		I don't have to.
nick		I have ten hours to grab my man.
ich		No...
nick		Let's go.  Him first.
ich		Nick, you can't do this.
nick		It's done.  You don't have to come.
nick		Explain to them.  They shoot me, they kill you.  DO IT!
nick		Grab the keys, Ich, and get inside.
ich		No.
nick		Not now, man, okay, not now.  Work with me.
ich		You don't know what you're doing.
nick		Start it.
ich		 I can't...
joyce		Slide over.
nick		 Where's somewhere safe?
joyce		 You came up with the first part.
sugai		Kobo will meet me here tomorrow. Ten a.m.
nick		Good.
sugai		He'll find out you took me.  I'm unprotected.  He'll kill us.  All of us.  You don't stand a chance.
nick		Not if we're careful.
joyce		You're out of your mind.  I'm leaving.
joyce		You'll get Ich killed.
nick		No one's keeping him here.
joyce		Bullshit, Nick.  And don't tell me this is all just about Charlie. It's not.
nick		Why would you care?
joyce		Bastard...
joyce		Let go.
joyce		You're out of your mind.
joyce		I still think you're a bastard.
nick		What if I chant?
joyce		Wouldn't help.  Watch out for Ich.
nick		Better wake him up.
sugai		 Contact your associate in New York and tell him to hand my plate over to Abolofia.
sugai		You have betrayed the syndicate and personally dishonored me.  I would rather the deal fell through than...
kobo		No... I'll arrange it.
sugai		Abolofia's person has received the plate.  It's done.
sugai		 I wanted you to see him like this.
girl		 Let him go, father.
girl		 You're too old...
sugai		 That's enough.
sugai		You want him dead too.
nick		After a court convicts him.  He belongs to me.
sugai		 If anything happens to Abolofia or my plate, detective...
nick		Just one, compadre... Kampai.
ich		Kampai.
nick		It took 12 years to make it, you could take five minutes to drink it.
nick		You did great, Ichiro.
ich		I called Ohashi, he'll be waiting.  I like him waiting.
ich		Needs ice.
kobo		Ugly... A couple of thousand years they've been bound by these little rules.  Looking in.  Always afraid. Ugly little lives...
nick		Save it, I already took the tour.
kobo		You are a lucky man.  Where you come from a man can stand out.  It's expected.  Here a man is made to look a fool for standing out.
kobo		I like your friend, Joyce.  You're lucky.
nick		Guess I'm on a roll.
kobo		She's such a long way home for you.
nick		Time, I've got plenty of.
nick		 Hey, hey, come on, blow...
kobo		 This is my stop.
nick		I'm amused.
kobo		Don't be.
kobo		I have her.
kobo		 I'll kill her.
kobo		I want the plate from your pal, Sugai.  When you get it, you get her.
nick		Sugai won't give it to me, you know that.
kobo		Then take it from him.
nick		Ichiro?!
nick		Where's Ohashi?
nick		What the hell are you doing?!
ohashi		Your plane leaves at six.  Two officers will escort you.
nick		For God's sake, Ohashi, I need your help.  Let me out of here!
ohashi		You had my help, detective.
nick		If anything happens to her while I'm here --
ohashi		-- Do you know where she is, detective?  Do you know how to find her?  Even where to start?  We will find them.
nick		I have to get to Sugai.
ohashi		Goodbye, officer.
nick		OHASHI!
nick		 OHASHI!!
kobo		 Yes.  Do it.
nick		I was ready to have your ass for taking off on me.
ich		I followed them.  An hour from the train station.
nick		How many men?
ich		I couldn't tell.
nick		Joyce?
ich		I don't know.
nick		We need the plate to negotiate with.
nick		You know, Ichiro, you just burned your bridges.
ich		Rest.
ich		Someone attacked him.
nick		Now we've got nothing to negotiate with.
nick		Joyce told me about your family. It's tough...
ich		Thank you.  You have one?
nick		A wife.  She left.
ich		I'm sorry.
nick		Me too.
nick		Let's go.
nick		What's that for?
ich		Luck.
nick		Thanks.
ich		You know, Nick, we can't lose.
nick		 Why's that?
ich		Because we're the biggest things to hit this town since Godzilla.
ich		What are you going to do?
kobo		Still on your knees, Nick?
kobo		There's nothing you can do for me anymore.  I have the plate.  Sugai's dead.  No there is something.
kobo		You can tell me who I should shoot first.
nick		 You all right?
ich		Yes...
nick		 Call for help.
kobo		 Bang... bang...
kobo		... You're dead.
nick		Keep the change.
ich		Constable Ichiro Matsumoto presents captured prisoner Kobo, Chief Inspector Ohashi.
ohashi		Inspector Ohashi will take charge of the prisoner.
nick		Can't make you change your mind?
joyce		Last time you asked me to come along I nearly got a hole in my head.
nick		Might be different in New York.
joyce		Maybe.  If I come visit, we can find out.
nick		I'd like that.
ich		You can do it.
ich		Louder, pal, louder.
nick		Joyce, give the assistant Chief Inspector a drink, would you?
oliver		... Remember, counterfeiting is the Feds.  They'll be all over Abolofia's place.  Stick tight. You I.D. the other plate, he does real time.
nick		Right.
oliver		 You know, Nick, if you'd held on to that plate, you could've been a very rich man.
nick		Never crossed my mind.
oliver		Be careful on the run.
sergeant		Saddle up.  Hard team in the first unit.  Conklin, your RMP awaits.
nick		Sure you want to come?  Probably better than the Greyline Tour.
ich		You wouldn't make it without me.
ich		Think we'll get him, Nick?
nick		We can't lose.
ich		How can you be so sure?
nick		Cause you're the biggest thing to hit this town since...
****Dialogues from script :Black_Snake_Moan.txt****

gill		Still need a lift?
ronnie		Yeah. Transmission's shot.
gill		Gonna have a smoke.
ronnie		Shit...
rae		Baby...
gill		You sick?
rae		This ain't gonna work.
ronnie		Rae...
rae		I don't see why we gotta lie 'bout it when you and I know this ain't gonna work.
ronnie		 Rae don't do this now...
rae		It's stupid... It's so fucking stupid!
ronnie		Rae!
ronnie		 Look it. I got somethin' for us. This is gonna help, okay.
gill		You gonna miss your bus.
ronnie		This watch here is gonna beep at midnight. Every night. That's when it comes up on you the hardest, right?
ronnie		And wherever I'm at, my watch'll beep, too. We'll be thinkin' bout each other at the same time. Wherever we are.
ronnie		I gotta believe we can do this or I ain't gonna make it, Rae.
rae		Okay... Okay.
ronnie		I love you.
rae		Shit.
rae		Goddammit, Ronnie...  GODDAMMIT!
rae		 Mm-mm... Mm-mm...
rae		MM-MM! MM-MM! MMMMMMMMMMMM!
rae		We're done, right?
lazarus		I never laid a hand on her in anger. Not a day. Not even when I's drinkin'. But this business got me wonderin' what a good shake and slap would do for her.
lazarus		I didn't start this, R.L.
rose		Can't remember the last time I saw you in that suit.
lazarus		Your mother's funeral. I's a pallbearer, remember?
waitress		Can I start you both off with some coffee 'fore I take your order?
rose		We won't be stayin' long. Coffee'll be fine.
rose		We leavin' this weekend. Deke got a friend in Mobile gonna get him a job at the water company...
lazarus		 If you come to talk about that muthafucka, I'm gonna get up and leave you sittin' pretty in that new suit he bought'cha.
rose		Think this about money still, ya old fool?
lazarus		Say what you gotta say, but I ain't gonna hear you speak his name to me. Not never. You hear?
rose		How many times we been over this, Laz? How many times?
rose		Thought we was gonna be friendly about this.
lazarus		Carryin' on behind my back. Make me out to look like a fool to all our people. Tell me, what's friendly about that?
rose		I'm not ready to grow old, Laz. Livin' with you. I feel it. Like I'm one foot in the dirt. Saw it happen to my momma. And that's not gonna happen to me. I got living to do.
lazarus		And you gonna live it with him?
lazarus		Rose. Folks get sick. But you do what you can to get on the mend. Our marriage... it just got sick. That's all.
rose		Talk to me about sick. Ain't been right since I moved into that drafty house.
lazarus		I keep the heat on.
rose		That damned, rusty, radiator, bout burned the skin off my legs each time I passed.
lazarus		Kept us warm for twelve years.
rose		I deserve better than this.
lazarus		Better'n me?
rose		Better than what you give.
lazarus		Rose... please...
rose		Laz... You can't say nothin'...
lazarus		If we get with a counselor. At the church, maybe they's...
rose		 I don't love ya no more.
rose		I'm sorry you hurtin'. But, like I say, this the only life I got.  I said my piece.
lazarus		God forgive you, for how you done me...
rose		Let go...
lazarus		My Daddy told me that a younger woman would bleed me dry. And that's what you did. Ya bled me.
rose		Let go of my arm...
lazarus		Would'a chopped my arm off if you asked. And this how you do me!
rose		LAZ, I said let...!
lazarus		You better pray, gal. You better pray...
rose		 Don't you lay a CURSE ON ME!
rose		 Yeah, go'on! Look! See if I give a shit about any of you people!
rae		You got any money?
tehronne		Thought you had a man for that.
rae		 I said we wasn't gonna talk about him.
tehronne		What we just did, you askin' for money, make a man stop. I ain't callin' you no ho. But I ain't gonna be played like no trick, neither. Remember... you called me.
rae		Save that hustle talk to them field ballers you sell crack to.
tehronne		What'd I tell you?  I don't do none of that shit no more. I'm in communications now.
rae		Stolen phone cards and two-ways is what you sayin'.
tehronne		Mobile technology is the new fix for these niggaz, I'm tellin' you. I'm just lookin' ahead.  Anyways, ain't no money in drugs no more with these rednecks popping cough pills like they's Skittles. Hey, that's what you need, girl. Get you some cough medicine. What, you sick?
rae		Just a cough. Sugar and a spoonful of Jack'll do it.
tehronne		 Alright. How much you need, ho?
rae		The hell you call me?
tehronne		Eh, if the bootie fits...
tehronne		You gonna get rough? Is that what you doin'?
tehronne		 I swear, I seen some buck-wild bitches in my time, but you the illest I ever seen.
rae		Just got a cough.
man		It's already noon, Rae. You think that skirt should still be on?
rae		 If it weren't you could kiss my rebel cootch, ya faggot.
sandy		Cough drops or condoms?
rae		 Didn't know you was workin' here now?
sandy		I just like dressin' up in these goddamn blue vests.  Your money ticket get shipped today?
sandy		 You let me know if I can be of any assistance.
lincoln		You won't at the square this mornin'.
lazarus		Get me ten bags of mulch.
lincoln		Yes'sir.
lazarus		Keep the change on that.
lincoln		Naw... I got it, Mr. Lazarus.  You wanna tip me, best do it in butter beans. Momma say she need a bag 'a yours, none of that store-bought junk. That's what she said.
lazarus		Alright, Lincoln. You come on by, I'll load you up.
mayella		You gonna put some Luther Vandross in here? Shit, he black ain't he?
bojo		He black alright, he just ain't blue.
mayella		Why you stop havin' dancin' on Saturday? Used to have bands... all kind's live shit. Like a wake up in here, now.
bojo		Folks can dance when they want. Didn't buy that mirror ball for nothin'.
mayella		You seen my snake-skin shoes?
mayella		They're from New York. My niece gets 'em on the computer.
lazarus		They got blue snakes up north?
mayella		Naw. They got some blue dye, though. You think them boots you got on come from a black cow?
bojo		Wanna get on somebody 'bout live music, get on ol' Laz, there. He the one got this place shakin' back in the day.
mayella		Don't gotta tell me. Me and my girlfriends use-ta talk 'bout them hard fingertips he got pickin' that guitar.
lazarus		Got'em pickin' peas, not strings.
mayella		They still hard?
lazarus		Mayella. It ain't happened yet. Ain't happenin' tonight.
mayella		 I know you hurtin', Laz. I got ears, you know. But you should know more'n me... ain't no better cure for them blues than some good pussy.
bojo		Whole lotta woman, right there.
lazarus		She can still spread it around.
bojo		Laz. We friends and all but... promise me you'll keep yo cool in my joint.
lazarus		I'm gonna finish my beer.
deke		Mind if I sit?  Rose said... it didn't go too well this afternoon. See, that's not how we wanted this to go down. I told her, I said, Rose, we ain't leavin' till we make peace with Laz. And that's God's truth. I laid it down.
lazarus		You laid it down.
deke		I did.
lazarus		Funny. Layin' it down... for my wife.
deke		We're not gonna get through this clean. But it don't need to get dirty. All this... it just come together unexpected. You think I want to hurt you? I... I'd take a bullet for you, Laz.
lazarus		You wanna give that a try?  You come here to ease your heart. Well, I ain't gonna give it to you. You took her into your bed, now you gotta lie in it.
deke		I'll always love you, Laz. Till the end of my...
bojo		LAZ!
lazarus		Cain slew Able. Slew him out of envy. And God put his mark on Cain for his sin. You want that mark, Deke? Give you that peace you come here for? I'll give it to you, just say that shit again. Say you love me. Go'on! Say YOU LOVE ME, NIGGA!
lazarus		I'm through wit'cha both.
deke		What'chu gonna do? Nothin'. YOU AIN'T GONNA DO NOTHIN'!
jesse		 Ronnie ship out this mornin'?
rae		It's so stupid. Says to me that he don't want nothin' to do with no military career. Says he wants to move. Open up an auto shop with his uncle up in Knoxville. I said, okay. How about now? Let's go.
kell		He'd be good for that. Shit, Ronnie knows cars.
rae		He get stubborn. Starts talkin' 'bout obligation and duty and all that... Shit. I just want him to come home... I swear, if somethin' happens to him...
kell		He fixed up that Buick for my uncle Dale. He say it purrs like a kitten every morning.
jesse		Nothing's gonna happen. Not like everybody over there is in the line of fire with them Arabs blowin' themselves up.
rae		Can't be thinkin' bout him every second of my day. I'll go outta my gourd.
jesse		Why should you waste your life waitin' and wonderin'. Not like you're married.
rae		 I begged him not to go. And he did.
kell		 PUNT YOU FUCKERS!
jesse		These baby chicks just can't hold their Jello shots. I'm tellin' ya.
conner		Tennessee Vols gotta practice indoors just so those Florida State sons-a- bitches don't spy on their plays with satellites and shit.
kell		Satellites... You mean in space?
conner		Uh-huh.
kell		Good thing you can block, Conner, cuz you're dumb as a sack of shit.
jesse		You wanna go home?
rae		It gets worse there. Leavin' me to my own mind. That's just not good.
jesse		 Here. Pound this and I'll join you.
jesse		One more. Fuck the chaser.
jesse		Better?
rae		Yeah.
batson		Hey, Jess.
jesse		Boys.
batson		You robotrippin' tonight?
jesse		I'm just gonna smoke.
batson		 Got eight packs of DXM. Oxycontin. Got a shit load of Coricidin if you want to get out-a-body, n'all.
jesse		You just trying to get me outta my clothes.
rae		Be right back.
rae		It's not like I can't go out and have fun with my friends.
gill		You think I'm Ronnie's spy or somethin'? Come tomorrow that dumb- ass gonna be halfway round the world tryin' to keep his head on his shoulders. You think he's gonna be thinkin' about you?
rae		You go to hell.
rae		 How many to fuck me up?
jesse		What's so funny?
rae		 Oh... I'm just on a water bed... And it's just... so... Goddamn... funny!
rae		Hi.
bryan		Hey.
rae		You ain't the kicker, are you?
bryan		No, ma'am.
rae		Cuz let me tell you, you boys gotta run the ball more. You get into a kicking game, ya'll gonna lose.
bryan		Can I put it in your mouth?
rae		Okay.
lazarus		Seem like you and me... we drove her away. That's what we did. Now we...  Drinkin' muddy water... a'sleep in a hollow log...
lazarus		You gonna do this?
lazarus		 Just like a bird without a feather, you know I'm lost without your love. Just like a bird without a feather, you know I'm lost without your love. You know I need your love just like the angels need heaven above.
lazarus		 Well I sure did shot my baby, but I did it because she did me wrong. Well I sure did shot my baby, but I did it because she did me wrong. You know the judge called it murder now the penitentiary is my home.
lazarus		 I loved that woman, she said she didn't love no one but me. I loved that woman, she said she didn't love no one but me.
lazarus		 Yeah but I caught my baby cheating.
lazarus		 Now my home ain't where it used to be.
rae		Jes? Jesse?  Oh shit... Wait... Wait... STOP!
gill		Stop what?
rae		 I'm gonna fall off...
rae		Oh. That feels so much better.
gill		Thought you had a skirt earlier.
rae		I got others.
gill		This thing you got... I've heard people say, you'd fuck a tree if it was handy. I can see that.  But that nigger Tehronne. Thinks he's some player cuz he hustles dope and stolen hubcaps. I mean, I can see a tree. But that piece of shit?
rae		 I begged him. Don't see why he had to go...
gill		I bet you did. Just had to get that black cock up in you. I swear to God. What Ronnie sees... you disgust me.
gill		The fuck you laughin' at?
rae		 You don't got half what Tehronne got.
gill		 Get up! I ain't playin'! OPEN YOUR GODDAMN EYES!
gill		Oh, Jesus...
guardsman		Hey.
lazarus		Huh?
lazarus		You gonna preach 'bout turnin' the other cheek?
lazarus		Don't know if God wanna see me.
lazarus		Mmmmmmmmmm... Mm!
lazarus		Sweet... Jesus...
lazarus		Little lady? Miss? You need to open your eyes for me. Could ya do that?
lazarus		There we go. There we go. Just like you doin'. Go'on.
rae		 Teh... Tehronne?
lazarus		Tehronne? Tehronne done this?
operator		 You've reached the Fisherville Police Department. Your call will be answered in the order it was received. If this is an emergency, please, hang up and dial 9-1-...
lazarus		 I'm'a go into town. Get you some medicine to fix you up. You just rest, okay, gal? You just sleep. Get that chill out'cha.
lazarus		God... damn...
melvin		How's the squash this year?
lazarus		It's good, Mister Melvin. I'll bring ya some.
angela		Lazarus?
lazarus		 Oh! Gave me a start.
angela		I'm sorry. It's these soft shoes I wear for my back.
lazarus		You hurt it?
angela		I'm standing most of my day. They're for support.  Didn't see you in church this mornin'.
lazarus		 Been on the crop. May need to get some extra hands if I don't want to work on Sundays.
angela		Well. It's good to see you.
lazarus		Angela?
angela		Yes?
lazarus		I need to uh...
angela		Go on, Laz. You can talk to me.
lazarus		My little niece... she got this deep cough.
angela		You take her to a doctor?
lazarus		 I don't know what to do.
angela		You wait right here.
rae		Mm-mm... Mm-mm...
rae		NOOOOO!
angela		Is your niece older than 12?
lazarus		Oh, she older than that.
angela		My sister got a bad cough with her pneumonia. I just copied her prescription. You don't need to pay anything... just take it. But if she gets worse, you give me a call. I wrote my number on the box.
lazarus		This gonna get you in trouble?
angela		Not if no one finds out.
lazarus		Thank you.  Oh. My wife. She had a card here for her migraine pills. She ain't gonna be around no more... So if you...
angela		I already tossed that out.  Somethin' you should'a done to that woman long ago... how she treated you. Of course, that's none of my business.
lazarus		 Don't make it less true.
charlie		Hey, Lazarus. We closed up on Sunday.
lazarus		Need a word with Tehronne.
charlie		 Yo, T! Laz wanna holla at cha.
tehronne		Come on back, Cuz.
tehronne		Do you call it a game when only one man win each time? I think you call it a damn shame.
lazarus		Word wit'cha. In private.
tehronne		You need some weed?
lazarus		Been years since I fooled with that.  You know a white girl? Dirty blond hair, split down the middle like?
tehronne		 That ain't up to me to hook you up. Naw what I mean? She her own, you know?
lazarus		Huh?
tehronne		I don't pimp that.  You talkin' about who I think you talkin' about, you mean Rae. Rae Doole. Sexy little split tail, like you say. I can't hook you up with that. I got two girls. One ain't in town, the other one pregnant. So... you on your own.
lazarus		This Rae... you get with her?
tehronne		Shit. Who hasn't?
lazarus		Why you say that?
tehronne		She got a spare minute she'll snatch up anyone... but me, I'm different. Sometimes she need the real deal, so she call me up. Girl got an itch. You know... what's a nigga to do?
lazarus		She like it rough? You like beatin' on her?
tehronne		That ain't my scene. If that's somethin' you into...
lazarus		Now, hold up.
tehronne		See, that girl is in my favor. You heard me, nigga? You fuck with her rough, and you got me to fuck wit.
lazarus		You collar that dog, boy. I ain't gonna hurt nobody. Just wanted to know who she was.
tehronne		Like I say, you wanna hook that up... I ain't in ya way. That switch of hers been all over this town. Got that sickness, you know.
lazarus		What'chu sayin'?
tehronne		She a freak. Got what you call a sexual addiction.
lazarus		What'chu sayin'?
tehronne		What I'm tellin' you. Girl gotta get dick or she go crazy.
lazarus		Gal? Miss Rae? Rae, you hear me?
lazarus		Hold on, now. Hold on!
lazarus		Now, I ain't gonna hurt'cha. Calm down, Miss.  I ain't gonna hurt ya, hear? Gotta get you well. Now, look me... HEY! Look me in the eye.
lazarus		Open your eyes. Go'on, now. You need to see, ain't no harm here. Ain't no harm.  My name is Lazarus Woods. And I ain't gonna let you die.
rae		...you don't... touch me... s'no... NO! Mm-mm... Mm-MMMMMMMMMMMMM! N- N'you FUCK!
rae		Mm-mm... mm-mm... Ma-muh... Ma-MUH!  See... S... See if'I GIVE... GIVE'A... SHIT...
lazarus		I know, child, I know. Gotta break that fever now.  I AIN'T LETTIN' YOU DIE!
lazarus		Put fear of the Devil in me, gal. Got me spooked like I's a kid, I tell you.  And he brought the boy to the disciples, but they could NOT cure him.
lazarus		 Then the disciples say... Why could not we cast the devil out? And Jesus said unto them...
lazarus		Listen now... This what he sayin' to us. He say...  You hear that? You just need a bit of faith. You just gotta believe you gonna get well, like I do.
lazarus		That's better. You coolin' down. Okay. You rest. Okay. You rest.
rae		 Ronnie...
rae		Ronnie... RONNIE!
lazarus		Gal? Gal?
rae		 Nn-nn... Nn-nn... no... N'RONNIE!
lazarus		GAL! YOU HEARIN' MY VOICE?
lazarus		You travelin' right now, gal. You asleep and you don't even know it.  Now... come on inside with me.
rae		Mm-mm... Mm-mm...
lazarus		Come on, gal...
rae		NO! NOOO! NOOOOOOOOOO!
rae		 Is'okay... Is'okay...
lazarus		 Goin' over that hill. Goin' over that hill. Well, I ain't gonna stop until I reach my God's top. I'm goin' over the hill. Well I went to the valley, I didn't go to stay. Soul got happy, I stayed all day. I'm goin' over that hill.
tehronne		First hooked up with that bitch when she was 16. Girl was fuckin' the principal and two of her teachers. You know coach Reynolds?
lazarus		Uh-huh.
tehronne		He tapped that.
lazarus		Naw!
tehronne		Go ask him.
tehronne		You ever seen a train run on a woman?
lazarus		Nuh-uh.
tehronne		Meanin' like a team of fellas go to work on her and she don't even break a sweat.  She into football, you know. You got a letter on your jacket you get that pussy in ya lap. I ain't playin'.
lazarus		How a girl get like that?
tehronne		Like I told you.
lazarus		 Tell me who's that writin'? John the Revelator. Wrote the book of the seven seals.
lazarus		Hey.
lazarus		Take it easy now. Don't rush it.
rae		 How long... how long I been out?
lazarus		You been in and out goin' on two... maybe two days.
rae		 Two days?
lazarus		After your fever broke, you'd wake up in spells... long enough to get that medicine in ya.
lazarus		Found you on the side of the road. Someone took to beatin' on you pretty bad. You know who done that to you?
rae		Where's Ronnie?
lazarus		Well I don't...
rae		 Wait. He left.
rae		I don't got any money... for fixin' me up and all.
lazarus		Don't need none.
rae		Then I better be on my way. Don't wanna put you out no more.
lazarus		Think it'd be best if you stayed put while we talk.
rae		Naw'sir... I gotta be on my way.
lazarus		Best try gettin' ya wits about you 'fore you try to...
lazarus		Let me say somethin' first...
rae		Why you got me chained?
lazarus		Way I see it, it's gonna take a while for you to get right.
rae		The fuck you been doin' to me?
lazarus		I ain't laid a hand on ya but to ease yo fever... Remember like I say, I found you in the road...
rae		 Get this Goddamn thing off me!
lazarus		Now, no harm's come to you... and I aim to keep it that way. Ain't gonna... gonna run a train over ya... or however you call it... see... you was runnin' wild on me... these fever dreams you was havin'... these fits. I'd be chasin' you all night.
rae		Well I'm woke now... you can take this off.
lazarus		Gal, you ain't right yet.
rae		I'm right enough to stand on my own two feet. Now take this Goddamn chain off...
lazarus		How you let men treat ya like they do?
rae		What?
lazarus		These men you up under. How you let them do ya like that?
rae		 Do me? Do me like this, you mean? Like chainin' me up?
lazarus		You know what I'm talkin' about.  All that mess with ya teachers and... boys in the backs of trucks.
rae		 The hell you know about me?! You got no right to talk to me about that shit! The hell you think you are?
lazarus		 I've saved ya life, gal. I can do and say whatever the fuck I want.
lazarus		I give ya enough chain so's you can get about the house. Get you to the kitchen. You need the bathroom, it'll reach.
rae		What do you want?
lazarus		We got everything we need. Plenty of food. Ya medicine still got a few good swallows in it...
rae		WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM ME?!  WHATEVER YOU GONNA DO TO ME, JUST DO IT! AND LET ME GO!
lazarus		God saw to it to put you in my path. And I aim to cure ya of your wickedness.
rae		You some kind'a pervert?
lazarus		No ma'am.
rae		Some crazy Jesus freak, gonna fuck the spirit into me...
lazarus		In my house, you watch that lip...
rae		 Look it, mister... you wanna have your way, you take it. I'll do whatever you want. But you gotta let me go. You can't do this! You can't KEEP ME HERE!
lazarus		You sick. You got a sickness... we broke that fever... we gonna break that hold the devil got on ya.
rae		 HELP!
rae		SOMEBODY!
rae		SOMEBODY HELP ME!
lazarus		 Ain't gonna be moved.
lazarus		GAL! I ain't gonna be moved on this!
rae		LET ME GO!
lazarus		You can holla y'self hoarse. Ain't gonna bend my will.  Gonna suffer you like Jesus say, to the FAITHLESS and the PERVERSE GENERATION.
lazarus		Now you get up! And you get in my house!
rae		Or what?
rae		Stop it! Stop it! IT HURTS!
lazarus		Whose doin' is that?
rae		Okay... OKAY! I'M COMIN' IN! NOW QUIT IT!
lazarus		Say we talk. Just take a seat on the sofa. I'll get us somethin' cool to drink.
lazarus		You may not remember. But you spent a whole half day in my tub, tryin' to cool down. Melted four ice trays.
lazarus		Wicked little bitch... gonna cut me...
rae		You gonna get a lot more a'that, you keep me locked up like this!
lazarus		Think I'm gonna let you do me like that...
lazarus		 Now take that look out'cha eye.
lazarus		No, ma'am. You stop that foolishness.
rae		 Hm-mm... Hm-mm...
lazarus		I said... STOP!
rae		 I CAN'T!
rae		Hmmmmmm... Stop-it!... STOP-IT!
lazarus		You hungry?
lazarus		I put some back ache into growin' them greens. You should slow down and see how they taste.
rae		You like this? Walkin' me through this field like I's your mule?
lazarus		Can't sit all day on that sofa. Need to get your legs strong.
rae		 If I break one you gonna shoot me?
lazarus		My Daddy was one of the first mens to organize soil conservation in these parts. That's a group of farmers, you know, each season they'd rotate the crop. Know why it's best to rotate em like that?
rae		Uh-uh.
lazarus		Cuz once in a while soil need a change. Corn take up a lot of nitrate in the fertilizer. So next crop what ya do is plant ya some soy beans. That give off a lot of nitrate. Change keeps it all growin' and growin' strong.  Sting a bit?
rae		Itches.
lazarus		Means ya healin'.  So all this farmin' make me think on Matthew. Matthew 13. The parable of the sower? Man toss seed on rock, on the wayside, some fell in thorns... you know the story?
rae		Uh-uh.
lazarus		The seed that land on good soil is for them who hear the word of God... and understand the word of God. Not enough for you to hear what I'm sayin', you gotta understand.
rae		I know. I get it. What's Matthew doin'?
lazarus		Gal... Matthew ain't doin' shit... this just a story...  Ya gotta cut this shit out. Got no cause to be up under these fools, ruttin' on ya like you a bitch. Like you somebody's dog. No woman... who joins in union with Almighty God... or man... in the sanctity of marriage... should degrade herself... and bend to ANOTHER MAN'S WILL!
lazarus		 I GOT SIN IN ME! I AIN'T GO'N LIE! BUT I GOT RESPECT! AND ALL YOU GOT IS BILE, GAL!
rae		Let go of me...
lazarus		GIVIN' UP THAT SWITCH LIKE A TRAMP! BEHIND MY BACK AND KILL MY BABY...!
rae		GET OFF ME!
lazarus		 Didn't mean to go off on a tear like I did. I just got to thinkin' about things...
rae		Why is it you old men gotta talk so much? Like little boys, gotta talk yourself into fuckin' me.  You wanna give me 'nother bath?
rae		 Goddammit.
gene		There goes our fortune. We been doin' good for ourselves since you been away.
lazarus		Y'all know when Ella Mae's open up?
archie		You needin' to buy some pantyhose?
lazarus		Just some dresses.
rae		Hello? Hey!
rae		I don't believe this shit.
rae		Enough to choke a Goddamn horse.
lazarus		I'm needin' some women's clothes. A few dresses. Maybe some shoes. But they gotta be nice. They gotta be proper. Clothes a woman would want, where she could feel and look like a woman without... you know, lookin' like a tramp or a hussy or somethin'.
ella mae		And, sir... do you have a size in mind for what you're lookin' for?
lazarus		 That young lady's size, right'cher.
ella mae		Well, that makes it easier.
ella mae		Well... I hope these will work for your niece. She can always come back in and swap sizes.
lazarus		Mind I ask, what's all this business here?
ella mae		These are whipped body creams. It's like a lotion.
lazarus		For your hands?
ella mae		Some women prefer not to scent their bodies with perfume. So now they have scented creams. They help moisturize a woman's skin.  This one's my favorite. It's called Ginger Souffle. I recommend... applying the cream while the skin is still damp. So... perhaps just after a shower.
lazarus		 I'll take a jar of that, too.
lazarus		Lookin' for Miss Angela.
girl		She in the back.
angela		Wait right there.
lazarus		I brung you a little basket of goodies. Fresh squash, tomatoes, some okra, butter beans.
angela		 You didn't have to do this.
lazarus		Just wanted to say how much I appreciate you helping me the other day. My niece, she's cured up, and I got you to thank.
angela		Well that's good. I'm happy to hear it.
lazarus		Look here. I got somethin' special for you.
lazarus		This here is a whipped... body cream. And it's got a smell to it. Tell me what you think.
lazarus		They call this Ginger Souffle. Best if it... if it go on your skin just after you been in a hot tub... or shower.
angela		This was very sweet of you.
lazarus		Well. Hope you enjoy it.
girl		Oooooo.
angela		Hush up.
red		You gonna be on the square later on?
lazarus		Got all my honey-do's done with. I'm headin' home.
red		Stay cool. It's a hot one.
red		Yes'sir, Rev'rend.
rae		 You are my sunshine. My only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are gray. You'll never know dear how much I love you. Please don't take my sunshine away. A voice from outside spins her around. The guitar barks as Rae slams it down on the table.
lincoln		Mister Laz... I come for the butter beans.
lincoln		Ain't seen you on the square. Mister Laz, can you hear me?
lincoln		 Mister Lazarus?
lincoln		Mister Laz, I'm comin' inside...
lazarus		SHIT BOY! WHAT THE HELL YOU...!
lazarus		CAN'T LEAVE YOU ALONE FOR ONE...
lazarus		Lincoln, come on back.
lazarus		He's fine. Just had a bad fall.
lazarus		R.L., you gonna have to get on. I can't have nobody round my place.
lazarus		This ain't got nothin' to do with that woman. Just don't want nobody around me now.
lazarus		You gotta go, R.L.. I ain't foolin' this time.
lazarus		You ain't gonna talk me outta shit no more. I got my mind made up and I ain't gonna be moved on this.
lazarus		Got no place for preachin' here. Not now. So you do as I say...
lazarus		I told you to TURN BACK!
rae		 I didn't want to.
lazarus		Man like you ought not take the Lord's name like you just done.
lazarus		I'm tellin' you the truth, dammit. I found her beat. Left for dead. So I brung her home.
lazarus		I haven't laid a hand. On my life, R.L., my wick is dry on this.
lazarus		Put yo'self in my shoes. Say you out here, alone, with a beaten, half naked, white woman loves to fuck. I been toe to toe with the law in this town for no more than being black and nearby.
lazarus		Why don't you go'on and ask her. She need to talk wit somebody with sense. Folks been ruttin' and beatin' on this gal all her days. And this is how I'm handling it.
lazarus		Go in and talk to her. Please.
lazarus		Good. Makin' steaks for supper. I expect you to come.
lazarus		You treat folks special when they company. It's just supper, R.L., shit.
lazarus		Watch y'self in there. That girl'll jump on ya junk like a grasshopper.
lazarus		Did I hurt'chu?
lazarus		What happened in there... that won't your fault. Ain't a young man alive could keep they britches on with that girl being in heat like she is.
lincoln		Why she got a chain on her?
lazarus		That's between her and me. It's private. And I don't want you goin' off and tellin' ya daddy.
lincoln		 Please don't tell my daddy.
lazarus		My mouth is shut, boy. And that's how we gonna keep it. Don't go braggin' to ya buddies, ya heard me?
lazarus		So...  That your first time?
lincoln		Yes'sir.
lazarus		You struck some gold, didn't ya?
lazarus		Shit. My first time was with my second cousin behind my uncle's barn. She weighed two tons, if a pound. Could'a done a lot better for myself. You sho'nuf did.
rae		Thank you.
rae		 You know how, like they say, you save someone's life, you responsible for them. Guess he just don't think it's safe for me.
rae		You a preacher?
rae		Can I ask you a question?  People always say, you gotta get good with Jesus, if you want not to go to hell. That you say sorry for all you done and... and Jesus would let you go on to heaven.
rae		But that's so fuckin' stupid.  I'm sorry. Didn't mean to curse.
rae		You can't hurt people... and then just say, I'm sorry, and then everything just gets washed away. Why would heaven want people like that. People who... do what they want and then... switch.
rae		 Ronnie.
ronnie		 Rae. I really need you to... come find me. Please.
lincoln		We gonna eat with her?
lincoln		She still gonna have that chain on?
lincoln		I ain't no virgin no more?
lazarus		Now that's sharp. That is sharp. Chain give you any trouble?
rae		Uh-uh.
lazarus		Good. Now I got the steaks on, potatoes at a boil, and biscuits ready to pop in the oven. R.L. and Lincoln out yonder grillin' up the corn. What do you know how to make?
rae		I don't fuckin' cook.
lazarus		 Gal, I been around hard-cursin' folk all my life. And let me tell you...
rae		Look it... I put the Goddamn dress on, didn't I? I think I'm handlin' myself with some... fuckin' restraint here... how you got me locked up like a dog on a...
lazarus		If all you got is filth comin' out'cha mouth... people just gonna tune ya out.  You know how to boil water?
rae		I can handle that.
lazarus		 Well, get to it.
lazarus		Y'all let me know if these steaks are too dry.
lincoln		I skipped lunch.
lazarus		Well, dig in, son. Got plenty to eat.
lazarus		 Ask the chef.
rae		Cayenne pepper.
gill		 Holy shit.
ronnie		 Yeah.
gill		Sit down, man. Need a beer?
ronnie		Sure.
gill		 Marv, let's get Ronnie set up here.
ronnie		Hey, Herman.
herman		They buy you that big chicken dinner?
gill		What?
herman		They got little names for everything in the corps when they trying to get rid of ya. Don't know what it's like in the guard. There's what you call a bad conduct discharge, a BCD... we all called it the big chicken dinner. It ain't the brig but it'll fuck ya for life if you wantin' to work for the government.
ronnie		That's not what this is about.
herman		They got another little name called ad-sep. That sound about right?
herman		Ad-sep. Administrative separation.
gill		 How do you get one of those?
herman		Blowin' boys in the head, for one.
herman		Whoa, son! I ain't sayin' shit about you. I'm just talkin'.
ronnie		Well, you don't know what you're talking about so why don't you shut the fuck up?
gill		Hey, it's alright, man. It's alright.  Herman. Come on. He just got back.
herman		To get back ya had to've gone somewhere.
gill		What happened?
ronnie		They been keepin' a folder on me cuz of my stomach. Like how it was just before we'd play ball back in school. Thought it was just some tic I got, or ulcers like my daddy had.  It's a long process but... they sent me home.
gill		I guess it could be worse. You could be comin' back in a body bag.
ronnie		I can't get Rae on the phone. She's not at home... none of her friends seen her anywhere.
gill		She's around. Always is.
ronnie		I don't know. She's gettin' crazy, like she gets. Begged me not to go. Got real down. I just think somethin's happened. Like she run off with someone. You'd tell me if you knew somethin', right?
gill		You been home yet?
ronnie		Uh-uh. I's hitchin' up the interstate when I seen your truck outside.
gill		You need a ride?
ronnie		Rae?
ronnie		This don't feel right. Kitchen looks just like I left it. I know, cuz I cleaned it.
gill		She ever tell you she was thinkin' of taking off?
ronnie		I just been so mixed up lately, Gill. And, you know, with her history, I can see how she could get scared...  ...and run.
gill		Drink. Come on, drink some.
ronnie		Her momma works down at the grocery, down on the square. Maybe she seen her.
gill		Ronnie. You can't see cuz you're too close to it.  These nervous spells you get. You never had that shit back in school...
ronnie		That's not right, really, cuz I...
gill		 You joined up in that monkey troop cuz you had a plan for yourself. Army'd pay for school. You were gonna get a degree, maybe somethin' in business or agriculture and you were gonna make somethin' of yourself.
gill		And then you had to fall in love with the school slut.
ronnie		Now wait...
gill		 With all she was doin'. With all the shit she kept doing! You stayed stuck to that bitch's ass and you wouldn't let go.
ronnie		I know about how she was like. But we was different. I's the only person she talked to about it. How she's abused. Terrible things, Gill, just terrible...
gill		YOU HAD A PLAN! YOU HAD A GODDAMN LIFE! AND SHE JUST FUCKED THE GUTS OUT OF YOU!
ronnie		It's not her fault, Gill. She's had to take care of me all this time, cuz I'd just start throwin' up... choking. Just losin' my grip. And she listened. She listened to me.  And... I got better. I don't get nervous like I used to. And since we been together... she been faithful to me. Put all that junk behind her...
gill		The only thing that cunt's had behind her is me and half the town fuckin' her.  Your first night away, I come over and drop off the spare keys like you wanted me to. You weren't gone two hours and she was aching to get me inside her. Like she was havin' some kind'a fit.
gill		 I don't care if that hurts you or not. Truth is I don't know who you are anymore. So fuck it.
gill		You gonna steal my truck?
ronnie		Make yourself at home. You done it already.
lazarus		I'm dealin' with what God put before me.
lazarus		Not like that.
lazarus		She's tied to me, R.L.. We tied to each other.
lazarus		I'm through with them both.
rae		They sure liked them devilled eggs.
lazarus		You drink whiskey?
lazarus		You take it straight?
rae		Sure.
lazarus		 To my baby brother. Gonna be a daddy.
rae		Well, that's good news. So you're gonna be someone's uncle.
lazarus		Want another?
rae		We drinkin' buddies now?
lazarus		 To freedom.
rae		Still makin' jokes?
lazarus		 No joke.
lazarus		Not my place to change your mind, or anybody else's. People gonna do how they please. You only get one life... should be lived the way you wanna live it.
lazarus		If you want... I can take you back to town now.
rae		I ain't in a hurry.
rae		Could you do somethin' for me?
lazarus		Anything.
lazarus		 Ain't played 'fore nobody in years.
lazarus		 Funny how a sound just speak to ya heart.
lazarus		 They's this one spring... I saw a change in her. Her breasts start swellin' up. Come a few mornings I hear her heavin' in the bathroom. I seen it with women before. I knew.
lazarus		Come a day, Rose say she had to go visit her folks in Jackson. Didn't want me to come... so I stayed put.  They talk about a woman havin' that glow. Couldn't see it no more. She... took it away. Cut it out.
lazarus		One night... While she sleepin'. Held a pillow in my hands. I could see myself killin' her. What evil in my heart make me wanna kill her, I don't know? It's that voice in me. Each time I think it's gone, he come howlin' back. Devil or no, I don't know. But I am a haunted man.
lazarus		Calls me when I'm ailing. When I can't find my home, lost in the pines. I calls it the Black Snake Moan.  Mm-mm... Got no momma now.Mm-mm... Got no momma now.It's over late last night, don't need no momma now.
rae		Sing, Lazarus.  Please keep singin'.
lazarus		 Mm-mm... Black snake crawlin' in my room.Mm-mm... Black snake crawlin' in my room.Some pretty momma better come and get this black snake soon.
lazarus		 Black snake is evil, black snake is all I see.Black snake is evil, black snake is all I see.Woke up this mornin', black snake moved in on me.
lazarus		My life is gone. Only life I was livin'. And I lost it.
rae		I'm here with you.
lazarus		I had love in my heart. And I gave it to one woman. And she gone now.  Where am I gonna put all this love?
rae		You can give it to me.
rae		You can't start this and not finish. Not with me.  Please...
lazarus		Wait... I gotta stop...  Dammit, Rae... GET OFF!
lazarus		This ain't the way for me. I'm sorry.
rae		Not gonna lie to you, Laz...  This one's a doozy. I don't think... I don't think I can stop this.
lazarus		Tell me what to do.
rae		 The... chain helps.
rae		I seen a man die. He couldn't breathe... his heart was... was givin' out.
lazarus		You just havin' a fit. You ain't goin' nowhere.
rae		He told me... get help. I just stood there and watched him... I watched him die, Laz. Oh God! GODDAMMIT!
rae		 Oh, Laz... he hurt me. He... hurt me so many times.
lazarus		No one's gonna hurt you no more.
rae		You think God forgives people like that?  You think God forgives people like me?
rae		Hold me. Oh God...
lazarus		We'll just stay here. Wait till it passes.
rae		Where you gonna be?
lazarus		Right here. Be here all afternoon.  You ready for this?
rae		I'm gonna just get some girl stuff, like make-up and... stuff.
lazarus		This town ain't goin' nowhere. You take the time you need.
lazarus		Friend of mine.
angela		I bet you have loyal customers.
lazarus		 You liked what I brung ya?
angela		Been eatin' like a princess all week. Even got enough for us to take a picnic under the gazebo.
lazarus		That'd be nice.
angela		I put on the lotion you got me. Can you smell it?
lazarus		 That's nice, too.
rae		Hey.
sandy		What happened to your face?
rae		Got in a little accident.
sandy		 Yeah.
rae		Since you workin' on the square now, maybe we could get some coffee in the morning, if you want.
sandy		You need money again?
rae		No. That's not why...  Why we always gotta do this? I mean, you and me been at each other as far back as I can remember. Wasn't no love between us. And I'm your daughter. I'm the only family you got.
sandy		You never needed nobody. Always made that clear to me.
rae		Yeah. I know I did. But...  I'm tryin' to be dif'rent. I'm tryin' to... get some peace, you know?
sandy		I'm workin' here, Rae. Can you see that?
rae		I just wanted some make-up.
rae		I just think you should'a kept him off me, that's all.
sandy		The hell are you talkin' about?
rae		Now see? Don't do that. I'll go along with all you say about me. But that... you can't pretend no more on that. Cuz I was just a kid, Momma.  And you let him do it. Some big nobody in your life... and you let him do as he wanted... with the only SOMEBODY you had.
rae		I'm sorry... I didn't mean to shout...
sandy		All my life I been puttin' out your fires, with you givin' out your snatch to every waggin' dick in this town. And you gonna lay the blame at my feet? Well, I ain't gonna take that.
rae		But... Momma... just tell me... not gonna be mad... we can just talk about it... Be eye to eye on this... You don't even got to say you're sorry... Just say how you knew...
sandy		Only thing I'm sorry for is listenin' to my parents and having you instead of doin' what I should'a done.
rae		...tell me you don't know... goddamn LIAR!
rae		SAY IT! JUST FUCKING SAY IT!
mark		Rae! Rae! What are you doin'?
rae		 GET OFF ME! GET OFF ME! GET... HIM...OFF!
angela		I's thinkin' about singing in the choir.
lazarus		At church?
angela		Mm-hm. I don't know if I got a good voice or not but... practice is only on Mondays and Wednesdays, so...
lazarus		 You gonna sing me somethin'?
angela		When? Now? Oh. No.
lazarus		Come on, just a little somethin'. Right here. Go'on now, don't be shy.
angela		 There is a balm in Gilead to make the wounded whole.
angela		 So. You think I should be in the choir?
angela		What? What is it?
lazarus		RAE? GAL? YOU HEARIN' MY VOICE?
lazarus		I'll take you home now.
angela		This your cousin?
lazarus		Move, son.  Goddammit, kid, get outta my way!
rae		You took care of your wife, like you do me?
lazarus		I tried.
lazarus		You and me, we night owls. No use fightin' this shit.  Get up.
lazarus		What is it?
rae		Nothin'.
lazarus		Get'chu at that table up yonder.
rae		By myself?
lazarus		You can handle it.
lazarus		The hell is this shit?
lazarus		The fuck are all these people doin' here? Been drinkin' in this shit hole for years ain't seen this many people since I don't know...
bojo		Shit hole... Hey kiss my ass, Laz.
lazarus		Nigga, you go'on kiss my ass. Ya both called everybody, didn't ya?
lazarus		There you go, preacher man. Get me drunk so I don't stick my foot up yo ass.
lazarus		We ain't here to talk about that shit.
lazarus		 I don't know, but I been around, tell me them women shake 'em on down.
lazarus		 Yes, I'm goin' Georgia line. See if them women sweet like mine.
hershel		You wanna cut it up, baby?
rae		 Well...
lazarus		 I don't know, but I been told, them Georgia women sweet jelly roll.
rae		Are you drunk?  Keep drinkin' water and you won't get a headache in the mornin'.
lazarus		Yeah, gal I been here before.
rae		 I guess you have.
rae		Laz? Can I sleep with you tonight?
lazarus		Don't think that'd be wise.
rae		I didn't mean it nothin' dirty.
lazarus		I know you didn't. But you a grown girl. You can handle it. I got to.
arty		Baby, where you goin'?
rae		I'm gonna pee. I gotta take a break and go pee.
arty		Now, this isn't fair. You said I could do it, too.
rae		Eat shit and die, Arty. A girl can change her fuckin' mind.
rae		Hey.
ronnie		Hey.
rae		You don't gotta get up but... I gotta go...
rae		 I think if I just piss... I'll be okay.
ronnie		You feelin' sick?
rae		I'm just in one of my moods. You know how I get.
ronnie		Yeah, I know.
rae		I think it'd be better if you talk to me.
ronnie		Yeah?
rae		Just about anything, you know. It can be funny or... not. Just tell me somethin'.
ronnie		Well. That's my vomit. I came in here to get sick. I thought I'd make the toilet but... anyway, I got sick.
rae		Are you wasted?
ronnie		No. I just got a messed up stomach.
rae		 Holy shit!
ronnie		What?
rae		Holy shit, Ronnie!  You're a fuckin' rock star.
ronnie		I'm a what?
rae		All them people shoutin' your name like they were doing tonight! Shit! That arm you got'll get'chu on a box of cereal...
rae		Hey? You okay, Ronnie?
ronnie		 I don't know what's... wrong...
rae		Is'okay... Is'okay...
rae		I feel better. Do you?
ronnie		Yeah, I do.
rae		 You... are my... sunshine.
rae		Sorry.
lazarus		Looks like you know a song.
rae		Don't know where I learn't it, but... it's there in my head.
lazarus		 How you feelin' today?
rae		You know how you feel when you come out of a bad hangover? Like your eyes can open a little bit more.
lazarus		I know that.
rae		Woke up real early. Sun was shining. Just thought I'd mess around, try to learn a song.
lazarus		Go'on and sing it, I'll play.
rae		No, you do it. I can't sing.
lazarus		Stop that foolishness. Just do as I say and close your eyes.  Close your eyes. And think about... well, for a song like this, I'd say you think about what you love.
rae		What I love.
lazarus		Get a good picture in your mind.
lazarus		Think on that. And sing wit me.  You are my sunshine. My only sunshine.
lazarus		Good. I know another. It go like this.  Close your eyes Rae... sing it.
rae		 You are my sunshine. My only sunshine. You make me happy when skies are gray.
rae		 RONNIE!
rae		RONNIE STOP! RONNIE!
rae		NO!
ronnie		Ain't been a week and you already some nigger's whore? Gill told me. Told me how you and he... you and everybody...
rae		Ronnie. Please, baby...
ronnie		 Did 'ya have fun with her? Sweet as a peach, I bet. Huh? Huh?
ronnie		Goddamn it, I ask you a question, you better answer it, or I'm gonna blast a hole in ya!
rae		Ronnie...
ronnie		YOU SHUT UP!
lazarus		Careful how you point that gun, boy.
ronnie		 Or what? OR WHAT?
lazarus		Boy? You here to make a point, or you here to kill somebody?
ronnie		Ain't gonna be callin' me boy when I blow your face off.
lazarus		You sayin' you'll do what?
ronnie		You heard me, mother-fucker. I'll fuckin' kill..
lazarus		 BOY! You so green you couldn't stomp a baby duck.
ronnie		You testing me? Huh? You testin' me, old man?
lazarus		Test. Shit. What kind'a test you thinkin'? You mean like, if you a man or not? If you a killer? Only one way to prove that. You just look me in the eye, boy, and you squeeze that trigger back.
lazarus		Ain't that easy, is it? I been in some scraps, son, I know. First there's that loud crack. Always louder than you think. Like it just come-up- a-cloud and clapped a mess thunder right in ya hand. BAM!
lazarus		White light. Smell of smoke. Taste of my blood and brains in your mouth, stingin' ya eyes.
rae		Oh, baby... just let me...
ronnie		GODDAMMIT, RAE!
lazarus		BOY! YOU KEEP THAT GUN POINTED AT ME!  You know she been here with me, don't cha? Been all over town, givin' up that switch you thought was your own.
ronnie		SHUT UP! SHUT UP!
lazarus		Put all your love and dreams into one woman... she turn around and give it all to another man. That's a good reason to paint the wall with me, kid. She'd fear ya then. Cuz there won't be no more question in her mind. She with a real man now. A real KILLER!
ronnie		Don't... don't say that to me...
lazarus		 ...and cowboys. So let's have it. End me or get out of my face!
lazarus		Go'on. Do it.  DO IT!
rae		Ronnie?
ronnie		I can't stop... I can't stop... being scared. What am I gonna do...
rae		I got you, baby... I got you...
rae		 DAMMIT LAZ PUT THE PHONE DOWN?
lazarus		Thought you knew me better, gal.  I need you at my house... right now.
ronnie		I hate this town. You can't round the corner without bumping into someone who's got your number.  But... when Rae gets like she does. And she does the things that she always done. Makes me feel like she loves this place more'n me.
ronnie		All my life people called me shit like, sissy and... nervous and... I got few things in my life that make me feel like... like...
lazarus		Like a man.
ronnie		 Yes. I mean that's it. I wanna feel like a man with her. I wanna feel like the only man with her.
rae		It starts like this... fire... that spreads. Starts in my head. Then moves to my stomach. Then it goes lower. I can stop it sometimes but mostly I just jump on and ride it out... then everything'll go back to normal, you know. Only thing ever took that feeling away was... was... when I met Ronnie.  Cuz I love him so much. He's all I got in my life that's special. And I like taking care of him and helping him when he gets nervous. When I can do that for him... it's like I'm givin' somethin' of myself that I haven't givin' nobody else.
rae		I think... I think we're fucked up. Both of us. I know I am. But... that don't mean what I feel ain't true. It don't mean I can't love. And I know, how I been is... is... REALLY BAD! So if you want to quit on me... I understand. But please... please... don't.
angela		Hey.
lazarus		Hey. You wasn't at'cha work but that nosey gal up at the counter give me your home address. Hope you don't mind me comin' over.
angela		What do you need?
lazarus		I need ya help again.
angela		More cough syrup?
lazarus		Can I come in?
lazarus		I lied to you. It was wrong. But at the time... I didn't know what to do. Imagine you got an earful from folks about that gal I's carryin'...
angela		Laz... you don't need to explain yourself to me...
lazarus		Yes, I do. Cuz I feel for you. Mean to say...  I don't want you to go away. There's better ways to say what I'm trying to say, but... they it is. Don't go away.
angela		Laz. I'm gonna put my trust in you. I'm gonna do it knowin' all too well I can get hurt like this. And I have been hurt. Just like you.  Woman like me, I got a lot of livin' to do. But my days are precious to me. They all I got left. Don't want no more fuss. I want love in my life. You understanding me, Laz?
lazarus		I do. God's truth. I do.
angela		Now what'chu need me to do? Cuz I'm gonna go do it.
tehronne		Yo, this here Pinetop. I think he got what you lookin' for.
lazarus		That'll do.
tehronne		It got some miles on it, but my boys say she run good. Got fresh 22's on her. Ain't my doin'. That's just how it came to me. Don't worry. Nobody gonna come lookin' for it. I got the pinks... got no problem.  Ain't gonna have my girl ridin' no bus.
lazarus		 Don't see generosity much these days. Everything always got a catch. Guess I'm tryin' to say... thank you.
tehronne		Nobody ever asks me to do shit like this for people. And you know what? I'm good at it. Naw what I mean?
angela		What are you doing?
ronnie		 Just wanted to see.
angela		You know the rules.  You do know the rules, don't you?
ronnie		Yeah, I know.
angela		Then start taking them seriously.
ronnie		Yes, ma'am.
angela		It's okay to breathe, honey.
rae		Yes, ma'am.
lincoln		You Ronnie?
ronnie		Yeah.
lincoln		I'm Lincoln. Guess I'm gonna be your best man.
ronnie		 Okay.
lincoln		You havin' trouble with that tie? Cuz I'm pretty good at it.
lincoln		Gotta do it like this or I get all turned around.
angela		She's ready for you.
lazarus		Now that's sharp. That's real sharp. Miss Ella Mae set you up, didn't she? You like it?
rae		I've had nice things before but I always ruined 'em somehow.
lazarus		Well, this one's yours now. You ready to take care of it?
rae		I want to. More'n anything. But I...
lazarus		Now... let's stop that.  You and me... we can handle this. You hear me, gal? We gonna be just fine. Now live ya life. Pull your shit together and live your life.
rae		Okay.
rae		I don't want you to let go.
lazarus		Maybe I won't.
lazarus		I do.
lazarus		You got her now?
ronnie		I gotta pull over.
ronnie		 FUCK!
rae		 You are my sunshine. My only sunshine. You make me happy, when times are gray.
rae		 You'll never know dear, how much I love you. Please don't take, my sunshine away.
rae		See. We're okay.
****Dialogues from script :Black_Swan.txt****

nina		 I had the most amazing dream last night. I was dancing the White Swan.
erica		You're in a good mood.
nina		I'm just excited to get back.
erica		Off-season always makes you grumpy.
nina		 Look how pink. So pretty. 2A.
erica nina		 Pretty. Pretty.
erica		He certainly should. You're the most dedicated dancer in the company.
nina		What?
erica		There.
veronica		Can't believe she's back.
galina		Of course she is.
veronica		She can't take a hint? Company's broke. No one comes to see her anymore.
soloist 1		No one comes to see ballet period.
veronica		That's not true, I heard the Royal had one of their best seasons yet.
galina		He needs to try something new.
veronica		No, someone new.
soloist 1		Like who?
veronica		Like someone who's not approaching menopause.
nina		I think it's sad.
veronica		What's sad?
nina		Beth's such an amazing dancer.
galina		So's my grand-mother.
nina		Fonteyn danced into her 50's...
veronica		 Yeah, we know.
new girl		Soloists?
ballet mistress		To the back, fondu, to the back, plie. Fourth, fourth, and one and fifth, to the back...  Like this. Push it. Why can't you do this?
leroy		We all know the story: virginal girl, pure and sweet, trapped in the body of a swan. She desires freedom, but only true love can break the spell.
beth		What?!
leroy		So Nina, would you like to be the Swan Queen?
nina		If you want me to be.
leroy		Well, if I was just casting the White Swan, she'd be yours.
new girl		Sorry.
leroy		Girls, this is Lily. Straight off the plane from San Francisco. She's filling Rebecca's old spot.
lily		I'm good.
nina		Should I go again?
leroy		 I've seen enough. Thank you, Nina.
erica		How did it go?
nina		It went okay.
erica		Just okay?
nina		Ow!
nina		I'm fine!
erica		Shhh. Almost done...You're working yourself too hard. We all have off days.
nina		If that girl hadn't barged in.
erica		I'm sure she didn't mean to. Remember when you started? If I hadn't taken you to each of your classes, you would have been completely lost.
nina		I'm gonna talk to him. Tell him I finished it.
erica		He knows you can do the coda. It won't convince him one way or the other.
nina		I know, mom. 15A.
erica		Everything will be better in the morning. It always is.
leroy		Yes, Nina?
nina		Do you have a minute?
nina		If now's not a good time...
leroy		Now's fine, what is it?
nina		I just wanted to tell you, I practiced the coda last night, and I did it.
leroy		How thrilling for you.
nina		 Well...
leroy		Okay, Nina, listen, I honestly don't care about your technique, you should know that by now.
nina		Yes, but-
leroy		Anyway, I've already chosen Veronica, so...
nina		 I see.
leroy		You're not going to try and change my mind?
nina		 I came to ask you to give me the part.
leroy		That all?
nina		I can be the Black Swan too.
leroy		Really? She's hungry, volatile. In four years, every time you dance, I see you obsess over getting each move exactly right, but I never see you lose yourself.
nina		I want to be perfect.
leroy		Perfection's not just about control. It's also about letting go. Surprising the audience. Surprising yourself. Transcendence.
nina		I- 18A.
leroy		Ow! Fuck!
nina		 Sorry.
veronica		 What?
nina		Veronica?
nina		 What?
veronica		Fuck you.
nina		Hey...Everything's fine...He picked me, mommy.
nina		Mom?
erica		My daughter, the Swan Queen.
nina		Oh, mom.
erica		It's our favorite, vanilla with strawberry filling.
nina		Just a little piece.
erica		It's a celebration.
nina		My stomach's still in knots.
erica		 Fine then.
nina		 Mom, don't. I'm sorry.
erica		I'm just so proud of you.
nina		It looks yummy.
nina		Yeah...good luck finding a spot.
david		I am David.
nina		I know you are. I'm Nina.
david		Yes. Here we go, huh?
leroy		Okay!
nina		Okay.
leroy		I saw a flash of her yesterday. Get ready to show me more of that bite.
susie		You share with Beth from now on, so be considerate.
nina		Thanks, Susie.
susie		Those are for you. From Mr. Leroy.
nina		Beautiful.
leroy		Ready to be thrown to the wolves? We need their cash, so smile.
leroy		Dr. Brinson and his lovely wife, Ellen, tonight's sponsors.
nina		Such a beautiful event.
leroy		And this is Mr. and Mrs. Stein.
nina		Just a second.
nina		 Nina.
lily		Our New Swan Queen! That is so huge! You must be freaking out.
nina		Yeah...
lily		Stay. Keep me company.
nina		Excuse me.
nina		I think I drank too much. All those toasts...
leroy		You did well.
nina		Really?
leroy		They tried to eat you alive, but here you are, in one piece.
nina		 I guess.
leroy		I'll get you a cab. Where you going?
nina		Oh, Upper West Side.
leroy		Why don't you come to my place first? It's on the way.
nina		No, that's good.
leroy		 A minute more of ass-kissing. Wait here.
nina		 Hello?
beth		What'd you do to get the role?
nina		Some of us don't need to do that.
beth		You fucking little whore.
nina		 Beth, I'm-
beth		I need to talk to you.
leroy		You're drunk. You should go home.
beth		Don't do that! Don't just dismiss me!
leroy		 Poor, poor little princess. Try to hold it together.
beth		I'm going to drop by later, okay? I have something I want to give you.
leroy		 Come on.
nina		Thanks.
leroy		I thought it'd be good to talk about the role. Ground us a little.
nina		Yes.
leroy		The better we get to know each other, the more productive we'll be. I don't want there to be any boundaries between us.
nina		Me neither.
leroy		Good. So, do you have a boyfriend?
nina		No...
leroy		Have you had many in the past?
nina		A few. But no one serious.
leroy		You're not a virgin, are you?
nina		Excuse me?
leroy		Sex. Do you enjoy it?
nina		Okay.
leroy		So?
nina		Yes?
leroy		Go home and masturbate. Live a little.
erica		Sounds like quite an evening. Wish I could have been there.
nina		You know I asked.
erica		I know, Susie told me. Guess he wanted you all to himself.
nina		That's not why.
erica		I don't blame him.
nina		They're fake.
erica		Fooled me.
nina		I can do it.
erica		Turn.
nina		It's just a rash.
erica		What are you talking about?
nina		It was worse a couple days ago. It's already getting better.
erica		You've been scratching again.
nina		NO-
erica		I thought you'd outgrown this disgusting habit.
nina		Mom, please.
erica		It's the role, isn't it? All this pressure... I was worried it'd be too much.
erica		Don't be mad at me. You know I love you, you know I want what's best. But we have to take care of you.
nina		What happened?
leroy		She walked into the street, got hit by a car.
nina		Oh my god...
leroy		I'm sure she did it on purpose.
nina		How do you know?
leroy		Everything Beth ever did came from within. From some dark impulse. It's what could make her so thrilling to watch. Even perfect at times. But also destructive.
nina		Was it right after we saw her?
leroy		It's not your problem. This has nothing to do with you.
older nurse		You can go in.
nina		It's okay.
older nurse		What are you doing?!
leroy		No, no, not so stiff. Don't be scared of him.
leroy		Forget about control. I want to see passion.
leroy		David, answer me this question: are you interested in fucking her?
david		Have fun.
leroy		I'll be the Prince.
leroy		Use each finger, your face, your tits, everything. Entice me!
nina		Please don't...
nina		Who's that?
lily		You okay?
nina		I'm fine.
lily		You sure?
nina		We can't smoke in here.
lily		I won't tell if you won't.
nina		Thanks...
lily		So, want to talk about it?
nina		Just had a hard day.
lily		Leroy play too rough?
nina		He's brilliant.
lily		Sure, but not exactly warm and fuzzy.
nina		You don't know him.
lily		Someone's hot for teacher.
nina		I should go. It's getting late.
lily		Hey, I was only playing.
nina		I'll be out in a second.
leroy		Try it again.
nina		Do you have any corrections?
leroy		No.
nina		I didn't tell her that.
leroy		Maybe you'd like a break for a day or two.
nina		THOMAS-
leroy		Or a fucking month.
nina		She shouldn't have said anything!
leroy		I don't care! You shouldn't be whining to her!
nina		I didn't.
leroy		You could be brilliant. Taking it easy would be a betrayal.
nina		I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
leroy		Stop saying that! Stop being so damn weak!
veronica		 Look who's gracing us with her presence...
nina		Lily, I need to talk to you.
lily		Okay...
nina		Now.
veronica		 Ooooh.
lily		Shut up.
lily		What's wrong?
nina		You told Thomas about last night?
lily		I ran into him this morning. He said you guys were having some trouble.
nina		Why would he talk to you?
lily		Whoa your highness, I just told him you're working your ass off and I'm sure you'll be great.
nina		You shouldn't have done that.
lily		I didn't fucking do anything.
erica		Has he tried anything with you?
nina		He's not.
erica		Good. I don't want you making the same mistake I did.
nina		 Thanks.
erica		Not like that. I just mean as far as my career was concerned.
nina		What career?
erica		The one I gave up to have you.
erica		So?
nina		And only...
erica		Only what?
nina		Nothing.
erica		What?
nina		 Nothing.
erica		How's your skin?
nina		It's fine.
erica		We leaving it alone?
nina		Yes.
erica		Let me see.
erica		 I'm sorry, she's not in.
nina		Who was it?
erica		It's no one.
nina		Hello?
lily		Hey.
nina		 What are you doing here?
lily		I wanted to apologize.
erica		Sweetheart?
nina		Give me a second.
erica		Your dinner...
nina		Mom, please!
lily		She's a trip...
nina		How did you know where I live?
lily		I have my ways.
nina		I don't think-
lily		A drink?
erica		Sweetie, you need to rest.
lily		Jesus.
nina		 Wait.
erica		What are you doing?
nina		I'm going out.
erica		What?
nina		 Let's go.
lily		Can't believe that's what he called her. So gross!
nina		I think it's sweet.
lily		Little princess? He probably calls every girl that.
nina		Only Beth.
lily		Well, I'm sure she lost the title after her game of chicken.
nina		I don't think so.
lily		Sure, just gotta let him eat the pussy.
waiter		 Cheese burger, extra bloody.
lily		Danke schoen.
waiter		Let me know if it's not juicy enough.
lily		Oh, I will.
waiter		Enjoy.
lily		What?
nina		Guess I'm invisible.
lily		Here, wanna spruce up?
nina		I wouldn't know.
lily		Yeah, right.
nina		I don't want to talk about it.
lily		Relax, you're so tense.
nina		What is it?
lily		You're kidding? You never rolled?
nina		 How long does it last?
lily		Couple hours. Tops.
nina		That's okay.
lily		Sure?
lily		Heeey, thought we could use some drinks.
nina		I'm gonna go.
lily		This is Tom and this is Jerry.
andrew		Actually it's Andrew.
tom		Tom.
nina		Hi.
lily		You can't leave, I bought you a drink.
nina		I really shouldn't, we're on the stage tomorrow.
lily		What, you gonna go home to mommy? Live a little.
nina		Just a couple of hours?
lily		Tops.
andrew		You haven't told me who you are.
nina		Oh, I'm a dancer.
andrew		No, I mean your name.
nina		Nina.
tom		You two sisters? LILY NINA Yes. No.
andrew		Well?
lily		We're blood sisters.
nina		We dance in the same company.
tom		 Ahh, ballerinas. So that's why you look alike.
lily		Tom and Jerry are gay lovers.
tom		Very funny.
lily		Oh, I just assumed.
andrew		I've never been to the ballet.
lily		In that case you're definitely NOT gay.
tom		It's pretty boring, isn't it?
nina		 No, it's not.
lily		 It's not for everyone. You probably aren't sophisticated enough.
tom		You've got some mouth, you know that?
lily		Isn't that compliment a little premature?
nina		You guys should come sometime. I can comp you tickets.
tom		Yeah...that'd be neat.
lily		I think we all need another round. Bottom's up.
andrew		So...what are you guys working on these days?
nina		Sorry. Swan Lake.
andrew		Yeah?
nina		You know it?
andrew		Oh, no, not really. Heard of it though. What's it about?
nina		It's about a girl who's been turned into a swan. She needs love to break the spell.
andrew		Okay.
nina		Yeah, but her prince falls for the wrong girl and she kills herself.
andrew		So a happy ending, then?
nina		It's beautiful, actually.
andrew		Like you.
nina		Huh?
andrew		I said you're beautiful.
nina		My hands are all sweaty.
lily		Uh oh! Looks like someone's rolling. Let's get you dancing.
erica		Do you have any idea what time it is?
nina		Mmm-hmm. Late.
erica		Where have you been?
nina		To the moon and back.
erica		You've been drinking.
nina		 Ding ding ding.
erica		What else?
nina		Huh?
erica		What else have you been doing?
nina		You want to know their names?
erica		You need to sleep it off.
nina		There were two. Tom and Jerry...
erica		Be quiet, Nina.
nina		 I fucked both of them.
erica		Shut your mouth!
nina		Don't come in here!
erica		What's this?
nina		It's called privacy! I'm not fucking twelve years old anymore!
erica		You're not my Nina right now!
nina		LEAVE ME ALONE!!!
double		Sweet girl.
nina		Why didn't you wake me up?
nina		 My music.
leroy		Keep going. Let's finish the Act.
nina		Thomas, I'm sor-
lily		Hey...
nina		 I overslept.
lily		Oops... Least you had a good time, right?
nina		You put something in my drink.
lily		 Yeah...
nina		And took off this morning.
lily		This morning?
nina		Yeah, you slept over.
lily		Uh, no. Unless your name's Tom and you have a dick.
nina		But we...
lily		We what, Nina?
nina		You're lying.
lily		 Oh my god, you totally fantasized about me.
nina		Stop.
lily		Was I good?
nina		 Shut up!
leroy		The Black Swan has stolen your love. There's only one way to end the pain.
leroy		At last, I saw the Black Swan.
costumer		Sit still, I'm almost done.
nina		 What's she doing here?
lily		He made me your alternate.  Just in case...
nina		Thomas!
leroy		 Go ahead. I'll catch up.
nina		Lily. You made her my alternate.
leroy		There's always an alternate, you know that. Lily's the best choice.
nina		She wants my role.
leroy		Every dancer in the world wants your role.
nina		No, she's different. She's after me. She's trying to replace me.
leroy		 Nina...
nina		Please believe me.
leroy		Listen, I know it's been a struggle. But you had a breakthrough this morning.
nina		THOMAS-
leroy		No more. Go home and rest.
nina		What happened?
piano player		I gotta life, deary.
nina		Hey! Hey! I'm still in here.
beth		What are you doing here?
nina		I'm so sorry.
beth		You stole all these things?
nina		I just wanted to be like you. Perfect.
beth		I'm not perfect. I'm nothing.
nina		It's not true.
beth		Fucking nothing!
nina		Beth?!
double		NOTHING!
nina		Stop it! Stop!
nina		Mommy?!
erica		What are you doing?
nina		GO AWAY!
erica		Open the door!!!
nina		Get OUT!
erica		Sshh, shhh, it's okay. I'm here.
nina		Where's the clock?
erica		Don't worry.
nina		It's dark. What night is it?
erica		Don't worry. I called the theater and told them you weren't feeling well.
nina		No, I want to.
erica		Lie down!
nina		Get off me!
erica		We're staying in here until you feel better.
nina		Where is it?
erica		This role is destroying you.
nina		Move.
erica		Nina...
nina		You're crazy!
erica		What happened to my sweet girl?
nina		She's gone.
erica		Please, you're not well.
nina		Let go! 87A.
erica		You can't handle it!
nina		I can't?! I'm the fucking swan queen! You never even got out of the corps.
erica		You fucking ungrateful-
lily		What are you doing here?
lily		You're supposed to be sick.
leroy		Lily, give us a minute.
leroy		Are you okay?
nina		I'm fine.
leroy		Nina?
nina		What?
leroy		I already asked Lily-
nina		Fuck. Have you announced it?
leroy		The only person standing in your way is you. It's time to let her go. Lose yourself.
stage manager		 Go.
stage manager		What are you doing? You're on!
david		What the fuck?
rothbart		You alright?
stage manager		That's intermission! Act 3 in fifteen.
nina		It wasn't my fault. He dropped me.
leroy		 What a fucking disaster!
lily		Rough start, huh? Pretty humiliating...
nina		Get out of here.
lily		Wow...rude.
nina		Stop. Just stop.
lily		How about...I dance the Black Swan for you?
nina		Leave me alone. Leave me alone.
double		 But it's my turn.
nina		Leave me alone!!!
david		WOW-
stage manager		That's you!
leroy		Get back out there! Get back-
stage manager		Great job. You got fifteen til the last act.
nina		One second.
lily		Hey...you were amazing.
leroy		Listen to them! They love you! Get up, get up!  I always knew you had it in you, little princess. Go take your bow!
nina		I felt it.
leroy		Oh my god.
nina		...perfect.
leroy		Someone, get help.
nina		Shhh...
****Dialogues from script :Blade.txt****

blade		-----
senior resident		Intubate her!
resident		Blood-pressure's forty and falling --
senior resident		Jesus, her water's broken --  She's going into uterine contractions --
dennis		So where we going?
raquel		It's a surprise.
dennis		I likes surprises.
raquel		What do you have down there, little man?
dennis		Heat-seeker.
raquel		I'll bet.
dennis		What the fuck are we doing here?
dennis		 Fuck, I need a drink!!!
raquel		What's wrong, baby?
blade		Where is Deacon Frost?
blade		Got something in your throat.
quinn		Fuck you, Day-walker, I ain't saying shit --
blade		Frost.
quinn		You won't stop him, Blade. The Tide's rising, the Sleeper's gonna --
dennis		Please don't --
assistant		Brought you a baked potato, nice and crispy. Still warm, too.
curtis		Jesus, that's rank --
curtis		What's his story?
assistant		Paramedics said he was still screaming when they found him. Looks like some joker had stapled him to a wall.
curtis		Pretty.
karen		You took this off a DOA?
karen		This isn't human blood.
curtis		Then what is it?
karen		I don't know --  Look at this blood smear --
karen		The red blood cells are biconvex, which is theoretically impossible. They're hypochromic, there's virtually no hemoglobin in them.  Look at the PMNs, they're binucleated, they should be mononucleated.
curtis		What about the chemistry panel?
julie		Blood sugar level is three times the norm, phosphorous and uric acid are off the scales.  Like the woman said, impossible.
karen		Curtis, it's three in the morning. I'm really not in the mood for one of your practical jokes.
curtis		 It's not a joke. I've got the stiff sitting in the morgue right now -- look, just come up and see him, okay? Five minutes, that's all I ask.
karen		I thought you promised to give me some distance?
curtis		This is purely professional curiosity, Karen, I swear.
karen		Five minutes, not a second more. And I don't want to hear a word about "us".
curtis		No problem.
karen		You haven't started in on the internal organs?
curtis		That's weird --
karen		What?
curtis		He looks different now, burns are less extreme, some of these wounds have closed up --
curtis		Tell me something, honestly, you ever have second thoughts about us?
karen		 Sometimes --
karen		-- but then I remember what an ass-hole you were and I'm snapped back to reality.
curtis		Jesus, Karen, you're breaking my heart here --
quinn		 -- more -- blood --
blade		Now don't we look dapper?
karen		 My shoulder -- dislocated --
blade		Whistler!
blade		She's been bitten.
whistler		You should've killed her, then.
blade		She hasn't turned yet.  You can help her.
whistler		No promises. You watch her close. She starts to turn, you finish her off.
whistler		Localized necrosis. She's borderline. Another hour and she'd be well into the change.
whistler		Can you hear me, woman?
karen		What -- ?
whistler		You've been bitten by a vampire. We've got to try and burn out the venom, just like a rattlesnake bite --
whistler		Hold her.
whistler		 "Dr. Karen Jansen". Listen close, I'm going to inject you with an antidote made from allium setivum -- garlic. This is going to hurt. A lot.
frost		The Day Walker represents a unique opportunity. We'd be fools to waste it by killing him.
dragonetti		 Deacon Frost. You refuse to speak our language, you insult the House of Erebus by using the humans' gutter-tongue, have you no respect for tradition?
frost		Why should I respect something which has outlived its purpose?
dragonetti		 I see. And what would you have us do with this "half-breed"?
frost		Study him. Unlock the secrets of his DNA. He's the key we've been looking for.
dragonetti		He is an abomination!
frost		Why should we spend our lives cringing from the daylight when his blood offers us an alternative? Enough talk. It's time we stepped out of the shadows!
pallintine		You're out of line, Frost.
frost		Am I? Or am I just the first to say out loud what we've all been thinking?
dragonetti		The shadows suit us, Frost. We've existed this way for thousands of years. Who are you to challenge our ways?
frost		Someone who's sick of living off scraps. The coming age belongs to us, not the humans!  When the final war between our races comes, who do you want leading the charge?
frost		Some withered up fossil ready to snap like a brittle bone at the first sign of change?
dragonetti		Get out!!!
frost		Careful, old fang. You might wake up one day and find yourself extinct.
blade		 Just do it, old man.
blade		You shouldn't be here.
karen		I'm sorry, I --
karen		Who are you people?
whistler		My name is Abraham Whistler.  This is Blade. As for our little homunculus here --
blade		-- he's a vampire.
karen		You're joking --
whistler		Not at all. You're looking at a prime specimen of the homines nocturna.
whistler		If Blade hadn't brought you here, you would've wound up like him.
karen		Why did you help me?
blade		Stupidity.
whistler		 Maybe not. I did some checking, she's a hematologist. Knowledge like that might come in handy.
blade		It's not worth the risk. We can't trust her.
karen		Why?
blade		Because you're tainted. The venom's still inside you. You could still turn on us.
karen		What happens then?
blade		Then I have to take you out, just like any other bloodsucker.
blade		We hunt them, moving from one city to the next, tracking their migrations. They're hard to kill. They tend to regenerate.
karen		 So what do you use, then? A stake?
whistler		 Some of the old wives' tales are true -- they're severely allergic to silver, various types of wood. Feed them garlic and they'll go into anaphylactic shock --
whistler		-- and of course there's always sunlight, ultra-violet rays.
karen		And you honestly expect me to believe all this?
blade		I don't care what you believe. I saved your life once, I don't plan on making a habit of it. You want my advice, you'll be out of the city by nightfall. If you're stupid enough to stay, that's your business.
karen		I can't just leave. I have a life here, a career --
whistler		There's a war going on out there. Blade, myself, a few others -- we've tried to keep it from spilling over onto the streets.  Sometimes people like yourself get caught in the cross-fire.
karen		I can go to the police. I have blood samples back at the hospital. I can show them.
blade		Do it. You'll be dead before you can file the complaint.
karen		That's ridiculous! No one's that powerful.
blade		Get in. Youre leaving.
whistler		Wait.
whistler		Consider it a parting gift. Vampire mace -- silver nitrate, essence of garlic.
karen		 So that's it? You guys just patch me up and send me on my way?
whistler		There is one other thing. I'd buy yourself a gun if I were you. If you start becoming sensitive to the daylight, if you start becoming thirsty regardless of much you've had to drink -- then I suggest you take that gun and use it on yourself. Better that, than the alternative.
dragonetti		 These archives are restricted to members of the House of Erebus.
frost		Please. You and the other Elders wouldn't know what to do with these texts if your lives depended on it.  Which, of course, they do.
dragonetti		You're wasting your time, Frost. Far greater scholars than you have tried to decipher these words. Whatever secrets they hold have been lost.
frost		Perhaps.
dragonetti		What are you up to, Frost?
frost's voice		Wouldn't you like to know, Old Fang?
blade		Remember what we said. Keep your eyes open. They're everywhere.
karen		I need the police. This is an emergency --
karen		Hello? My name is Karen Jansen, I was with Curtis Webb at Mid-Town Hospital last night -- that's right, I witnessed the attack --  115 Aurora, apartment 3G. Yes, I'll wait here. Please hurry.
karen		Get a grip on yourself, girl.
karen		Who is it?
gideon		Sergeant Gideon. I'm responding to a 911 call.
karen		Yes, that was me, I'm Karen Jansen --
gideon		Are you all right?  I'm glad you called, Ms. Jansen, we've been anxious to get a hold of you. You disappeared on us for a while.
karen		I know. Listen -- do you have any idea what happened to Curtis, the other doctor?
gideon		 Oh, he's dead. But I wouldn't worry about that if I were you.
karen		 Why?
gideon		Because you're dead too.
gideon		Garlic?
karen		He said it would work against vampires --
gideon		Who said I was a vampire?
gideon		Thanks for the laugh. You can shut your eyes if you want to.
blade		You okay?
karen		How did you know?
blade		Figured they'd send someone after you. Thought I'd wait around and see who showed up.
karen		You used me as bait?!
blade		It worked, didn't it?
karen		But, he could've --
blade		He didn't. Get over it.
karen		But he's a policeman --
blade		He's a familiar. A human who works for the vampires. See this mark?
blade		That's a glyph, kind of like a vampire cattle brand. That means Officer Friendly here is someone's property. Any of the other vampire's try to bleed him, they'll have to answer to Friendly's owner --  This glyph belongs to Deacon Frost. We've been tracking him for a while now --
karen		Why in God's name would anyone want to work for them?
blade		Because they're vampire wanna-bes. If they're loyal, if they prove themselves, then their masters will turn them.
karen		And that's a good thing?
blade		For some. Live forever, never get old. The ultimate high.
blade		How 'bout you, Officer? You a good little bloodhound?
blade		Looks like our friend was blood-running.  Where were you headed?
gideon		Mphuck you --
gideon		Jesus -- 1227 Brookner -- Holliston Clinic --
karen		What are you doing?!
blade		Preventive medicine.
karen		You can't do this, he's human, it's murder.
blade		It's war, now get the fuck out of the way!
blade		God-damnit!!! Do you have any idea what you just did?! He'll warn them. They'll be waiting!
karen		You were going to kill him. What was I supposed to do?! Shut my eyes and pretend I didn't see what I saw?
blade		Let me set you straight on something, Doctor. What you've "seen" so far is nothing. The world you live in's just the sugar-coated topping. There's another world beneath it, the real world -- and it's a fucking bloodbath. If you want to survive in it, you'd better pull your head out of your ass.
gideon		Look, I know you're disappointed --
frost		Crestfallen.
gideon		Blade was waiting for me. There wasn't anything I could do.
frost		Tell me something, Gideon, what blood type are you?
gideon		I don't really know --
frost		Take a wild stab. A? B? O, perhaps? I'm interested in the antigens here, the agglutination reaction --
frost		I'm going to guess AB positive.
frost		AB positive. Give the man a prize.
blade		What the hell are you doing?! I could have killed you!
karen		I remembered the address. I followed you --
blade		Do you have a death wish or are you just stupid?
karen		Look, if what you say is true, if there's a chance I could turn into one of them, then I've got no choice, do I? I have to work with you. I need to learn everything I can about them. It's the only way I'll be able to find a cure for myself.
blade		There is no cure.
karen		 You don't know that.
karen		What are you looking at?
blade		 What do you see here?
karen		Graffiti --
blade		Look closer.
blade		This isn't a gang tag, it's a vampire marking. It means there's a safe-house nearby. A place they can go if dawn is coming.
karen		 I know this place -- it's a blood bank.
blade		Owned by vampires. There's one of these in every major city, and just like Domino's, they always deliver.  You telling me you're ready to walk through that door?
blade		All right, then, listen up, Vampire Anatomy 101. Crosses and running water don't do dick, so forget what you've seen in the movies.
blade		You use the stake, silver, or sunlight, got it?
blade		Know how to use one of these?
karen		No.
blade		Safety's off, round's already chambered --  Silver hollow-points filled with garlic. You aim for the heart or the head, anything else is a one-way ticket to a pine box.
blade		Get out. Now.
blade		I know you're blood-running. Who's your sponsor?
tanaka		I don't know what you're --
karen		What if you've made a mistake?
blade		What's this? A birthmark?
blade		 How much are you shipping?
tanaka		Bite me!
blade		I've got a message for your masters -- the night's no longer safe for their kind.
karen		You let him go --  An hour ago you were ready to kill a man for less, this one didn't even talk.
blade		He will.
automated voice		 "You've reached a number that is no longer in service. Please consult your operator and try again".
tanaka's voice		 It's Tanaka, PIN number sixteen-zero-zero-nine --
voice		 Yes?
tanaka		Get me Pearl!
voice		 Pearl is feeding --
tanaka		Look, I'm not fucking around here! That hunter Frost has been talking about? He was just at the clinic. Tore the goddamn place apart!
blade		Looks like we hit pay-dirt. This place is crawling with them.  See the valets over there? They're vampires. So is the doorman.
karen		How can you tell?
blade		The way they move, they way they smell --
blade		The whore on the corner, she's one too. So are the two men standing under the streetlight.
karen		So many of them -- I still can't believe they're real.
blade		There are worse things than vampires out there.
karen		Like what?
blade		 Like me.
doorman		I'm sorry, sir -- do you have an invitation?
kid		Hey --
blade		Where's the entrance?!
tanaka		I can't -- they'll kill me!
blade		I got news for you, butt-boy. You're already dead.
tanaka		 Oh God, shit -- behind the bookcase --
blade		After you.
karen		What is this place?
blade		Some kind of archive --
karen		Isn't this all a little high-tech? I thought vampires were more into cobwebs and coffins.
blade		You've been watching too much TV. They've got their claws sunk into everything -- finance, real estate, politics. Probably own half of Downtown.
blade		This must be where they keep their records --
pearl's voice		 Lorca, is that you?
pearl		 He's here!
frost's voice		 Congratulations, Day-Walker.
blade		Frost?
frost		In the flesh, Blade. I understand you've been looking for me. I'm flattered.
blade		 Don't be. You're another notch on my sword hilt, nothing else.
frost		You're quick, Blade, I'll give you that. In the space of an hour you've crossed my familiar, destroyed a blood bank --  Now here you are in the heart of our archives, terrorizing our curator.
pearl's voice		He has a knife to my throat, Frost! He --
frost		 Round one to you, Blade.
pearl		What is that?
blade		A sun lamp. We're gonna play twenty questions. Depending on your answers, you might get to have yourself a tanning session.
blade		What were you in such a big hurry to delete just now?
pearl		 It's an epistle, a letter Frost has been translating -- it prophesizes LaMagra's return.
blade		And who is LaMagra?
pearl		LaMagra is The Sleeper!!!
blade		Where's the original, Pearl? You must have it around here somewhere.
pearl		The vault --
blade		If he moves, cook him.
pearl		Please, I'll give you the combination -- you'll damage the documents --
blade		That's the point.
karen		He moved.
karen		What are these?
quinn		 Hola, amigo. Remember me?
quinn		You took my arm, Blade. But that's okay, I'm growing a new one --
quinn		Nice, huh? Think I'll ever play the piano again?  You can slice him, you can dice him, and the man just keeps on coming.
quinn		Stay with me, sweetness, I'm not through with you yet.
quinn		Teak. Nice craftsmanship.  Which reminds me, Blade, think I owe you one --
quinn		Actually, if you want to get technical, I owe you two.
quinn		What's so funny, bright eyes?
blade		I'm expecting some company.
voice		 Get down!
whistler		Christ, I'm too old for this. Somebody get me a goddamn wheelchair.
karen		How did you find us?!
whistler		We keep in radio contact.
karen		 You've been listening in the whole time?
whistler		You think I'd let him run loose without a chaperone? Blade ferrets their rat-holes out, I map them. Then we blow them all to kingdom come.
whistler		There's a subway line due East of here. We'd best make tracks.
karen		Whistler!
whistler		Go on, I'll be fine!
blade		He can take care of himself! GO!!!
karen		You're hurt --
blade		Nothing that won't heal by dawn.
blade		 I need help with this --
karen		What am I injecting you with?
blade		 Serum -- it's a human hemoglobin substitute.
karen		You're one of them, aren't you?
blade		Not quite. I'm a hybrid. Half-human, half-vampire.
whistler		What took you so long?
blade		Don't even start, old man.
karen		Why didn't you tell me the truth about him?
whistler		We weren't sure we could trust you.
whistler		Blade's mother was attacked by a vampire while she was pregnant. Ultimately, she died, but her unborn child lived. Unfortunately, he'd undergone certain genetic changes while in the womb --
whistler		I found Blade when he was thirteen. He'd been living on the streets, feeding off the homeless. Apparently the Thirst manifested itself at puberty --  I took him for one of them at first, almost killed him, too. But then I realized what he was.
quinn		He took my fucking hand! Again!
frost		You seem to be in the habit of losing them fairly often, Quinn. Maybe the amputee lifestyle just suits you.
quinn		We need to find him, tonight.
frost		Down, boy. Blade's not going anywhere. I promise. Right now, though, we've more pressing business --  It's time Dragonetti paid the piper.
whistler		Blade's unique, you know. A one in a billion anomaly. He can withstand sunlight, garlic, even silver. But he still has the Thirst.
karen		What happens if he doesn't take the serum?
whistler		The Thirst overcomes him, just like the others. It's not something he can control.  The problem is, time's running out. His body's starting to reject the serum. And so far, all my efforts to find a cure have ended in failure --
karen		No offense, Whistler, but you're not exactly working with state of the art equipment here. You might have missed something.
whistler		 Which is why you're here. We could use someone with your experience.
whistler		This used to be mine, you know. It's been passed down through the centuries, from one hunter to the next --
karen		Why do you hunt them?
whistler		Habit, mostly, just like this.
whistler		I had a family once -- a wife, three daughters. Then a drifter named Deacon Frost came calling one evening --
karen		He killed them?
whistler		Eventually. He toyed with them first. He made me choose, do you understand? Which order they would die in --
karen		How did you escape?
whistler		I didn't. He was cruel enough to let me live.  Even gave me a souvenir to remember him by.
karen		And now you're using Blade to exact your revenge?
whistler		 Frost's bodycount keeps rising, and I'm not getting any younger, am I?
whistler		I wouldn't go in there if I were you. It's best to leave him alone when he's like this.
karen		I'll take my chances.
karen		Blade?
karen		It's dark in here.
blade		You get used to the darkness.
karen		Whistler told me about your mother.
blade		I can't close my eyes without hearing her scream.
karen		Those aren't real memories. No one has that kind of recall.
blade		I do. I remember from day one. People staring at me, sensing I was different. Watching the fear grow in their eyes, knowing in their hearts I wasn't human.
karen		If you're not human, then why do you bleed like us? I've seen vampire blood, you don't have it running through your veins.
blade		Just get out of here.
karen		Blade --
blade		I said, GET OUT!!!
frost's voice		Rise and shine, little wing.
dragonetti		 What is this? Where am I?!
frost		When was the last time you stopped to appreciate a sunrise, Dragonetti? Three, four hundred years?
frost		How do you like that? Right on time.
dragonetti		 The other elders will never let you get away with this!
dragonetti		 Don't you see, you fools?! He'll betray you too! He's planning on invoking LaMagra himself!
frost		The wheel turns, old fang. Guess you just got a little too long in the tooth.
frost		Dragonetti was right. You were fools to trust me.
whistler		Going somewhere?
blade		China Town. I need more serum.  What's all this?
karen		I made a trip to the hospital last night, borrowed some equipment.
blade		 For your miracle cure?
whistler		She's been making real progress, Blade.  Show him --
karen		This is sodium citrate. It's an anti-coagulant. We use it to treat blood-clots sometimes. Vampire blood is thinner than humans, though. Watch what happens when I introduce some into a sample --
whistler		Can you imagine what a dash of that would do on your sword?
karen		Before you go, I'd like to take a sample of your blood.
karen		Is he sick?
blade		Cancer.
karen		You care about him, don't you?
blade		We've got a good arrangement, that's all. Whistler makes the weapons, I use them, the vampires die -- end of story.
karen		 My mother used to say that a cold heart is a dead heart.
blade		Your mother sounds like a Hallmark greeting card.
blade		I'd wish you luck, Doc, but I never put much stock in optimism.
blade		How's it going, Kam?
kam		 You're a week early.
blade		I was in the neighborhood.
blade		Whistler says I'm building up a resistance to it.
kam		I was afraid that might happen.
blade		Maybe it's time to start exploring other alternatives.
kam		There's only one alternative to the serum.
blade		Yeah. I know.
blade		Thanks, Kam.  One other thing. Have you ever heard of a vampire called the Sleeper?
blade		I found this in there archives. I need to find someone who can read their language.
kam		I've heard about a woman named Miracia. Some say she's a mayombero, a Santeria witch. Supposedly she lives in that tent community down by the city dump. I'm told she only sees people at night.
man		Afternoon, Blade.
frost		Easy.
frost		Wouldn't want our little friend here to wind up on the back of a milk carton, would we?
frost		Beautiful day, isn't it?
blade		 How can you be out here?
frost		I dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical research. We've developed a type of sun-blocker using octyl salicylate, a few others things.
frost		It's not very effective in direct sunlight, but it's a start. The goal, of course, is to be like you, "the Day-walker".
blade		I don't buy it.
frost		Why not? The future of our race runs through your bloodstream. You've got the best of both worlds, Blade. All of our strengths and none of our weaknesses.
blade		Maybe I don't see it that way.
frost		Oh, so it's back to pretending we're human again, is it? Spare me the Uncle Tom routine. You can't keep denying what you are. You're one of us, Blade. You always have been.
blade		You're wrong.
frost		Am I? You think the humans will ever accept a half-breed like you? They can't. They're afraid of you.  The humans fear us because we're superior. They fear us because in their hearts they know their race has become obsolete.
frost		Look at them, just an endless stream of cattle in a mad race to the slaughterhouse.
frost		The pause that refreshes --  Care for some? Smells good, doesn't it? Pungent, with just an irrepressible hint of iron.
blade		Pass.
frost		You sure now? I bled a newborn for this. You won't find a drink that's sweeter.
frost		Tell me honestly, do you really get the same rush from that pasteurized piss-serum of yours?  You're surprised I know about your serum? You shouldn't be. I know everything about you.
frost		You can't keep walking the razor's edge, Blade. The day will come -- and soon, when you'll have to choose between our kind and their's. If I were you, I'd take care not to wind up on the wrong end of the fang.
frost		Love to continue this chat, but it appears I'm melting.
blade		You're not going anywhere.
frost		 Watch me.
mercury		 This is Mercury. Tell Deacon I've found their hiding place.
blade		Any progress?
karen		Some. It's been slow --
blade		You don't look so good.
karen		I'm just tired, that's all. We've been up all night.
karen		Excuse me.
blade		You've got another day or two at most.
blade		For what it's worth, I'm sorry.
karen		You make it sound like I'm already dead.
man		Extranjero. Quien es?
blade		I'm here to see Miracia. Kam sent me.
woman		This way.
karen		All right, let's start with the basics -- why do vampires need to drink blood?
whistler		Their own blood can't sustain hemoglobin.
karen		Then vampirism is a genetic defect, just like Hemolytic anemia?
karen		So what about gene therapy?
karen		Basically you'd have to re-write the victim's DNA, alter it so that the DNA will produce proteins capable of generating hemoglobin.
whistler		How?
karen		With a retrovirus. It's injected into the bone marrow cells, it causes the host's DNA to mutate. They've been using them to treat Sickle-cell anemia.
whistler		You're serious? You actually think this could work?
karen		On me, yes. On Blade, I'm not so sure --  The problem is, Blade didn't contract the vampire virus from a bite like I did. He was born with it. The irony is, I could probably cure every vampire but him.
whistler		Then we're back to square one, aren't we? Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
karen		What happened to the power?
whistler		 I don't know, but the back-up generator should've kicked in.
whistler		UV floodlights are down too.
whistler		Get it!!!
whistler		Understand this -- they are monsters. Hesitate for even a moment, and you've lost.
frost		It's been a long time, hasn't it, "old friend"?
miracia		Is something wrong, my friend?
blade		You're blind --
miracia		There are other ways to see. Sit.
miracia		Perhaps you have brought me something -- an offering for the orishas?
miracia		Hold out your hands.
blade		I didn't come here to get my palms read. I need something translated.
miracia		Show me.
miracia		Sangre. Written in blood.
miracia		This is an old tongue, from an old world. It concerns LaMagra.
blade		Who is LaMagra?
miracia		The vampire God. This speaks of His return.
miracia		"-- there will come a Day Walker."  "His blood will call the Sleeper from beyond the Veil of Tears."
blade		His blood -- ?
miracia		The Day Walker's blood is a disparador -- a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's return. One need only consume it and the spirit of his ancestors will settle upon him.  "And the Sleeper will rise from the shadows anew, cleansing the world in a Tide of Blood."
blade		 "The Blood Tide".
miracia		 Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is said that all who feel its taint will succumb to the Thirst.
blade		How do I stop it?
miracia		The Great Wheel turns, my friend. The Dark is rising. How would you fight a shadow?
miracia		I am tired. Dawn is coming.
blade		But I just got here --
miracia		You've been here longer than you think.
blade		WHISTLER?!
blade		Jesus, Whistler, what did they do to you?
whistler		Frost took her --
blade		Don't try to talk --
whistler		Listen. You have to -- finish me off. You don't want me coming back.
blade		No, we can treat the wounds --
whistler		Too far gone, you know that.
blade		Whistler, I can't.
whistler		Yes you can. Now get on with it.
blade		Whistler, I --
whistler		 Just be quick about it, will you? Do it right.
frost		Hello, Blade. By the time you watch this, Whistler will no doubt be winging his way to Heaven, thanks to your capable hands. If it makes any difference to you, he put up quite a fight.
frost		Now, I'm sure you're wondering about Ms. Jansen's well-being. She's alive and kicking -- "ambulatory", as they like to say in the trade. Whether or not she remains so is entirely up to you.  I'll make this as easy as possible for you, Blade. You can find us at the Edgewood Towers. We'll be waiting with baited breath.
frost		Well, here we are, Doctor.
karen		Why haven't you killed me yet?
mercury		Deacon likes to play with his food before he eats it.
karen		How many of you are there?
frost		A few thousand scattered about the globe. In the past, we've had to restrict our numbers for fear of discovery. That won't be necessary after tonight.
karen		What happens then?
frost		The Blood Tide. Our long-prophesied holy war against the humans. There's a force, you see -- a spirit that exists in our blood. I've discovered a way to invoke it.
karen		LaMagra --
frost		That's right. The answers were there all along, of course, scribbled down in the forgotten languages of my kind. Waiting for someone with the patience to decipher them. My elders were foolish enough to dismiss them as wives tales. But I knew better.  Imagine my surprise when Blade turned out to be the key which would set that force free.
frost		LaMagra isn't a physical being. He's a spirit, requiring a flesh and blood host in order to manifest himself.
karen		You.
frost		Who better to usher in the Blood Tide?
karen		There's no need for any of this. Your condition can be treated. Whistler and I were working on a cure when --
frost		What makes you think we want to be cured? Blood is only part of the equation. The hunt, the killing, that's what the Thirst is really about.
karen		But you use blood banks --
frost		Only as a last resort. Preserved blood is inferior. There's no flavor left to it, no life.  Fortunately, I've found a way around that particular obstacle.
frost		Under these conditions I can keep a donor alive for years, producing anywhere from fifty to a hundred pints of blood.  Of course, this is just a pilot program, really. Once the Tide comes, we'll need to expand production. So many more mouths to feed --
karen		You're a monster.
frost		Why? Because we live at another species' expense? Your people farm cattle and veal, don't they? Fattening them up with steroids? It's called evolution, Doctor. Survival of the fittest.
frost		I have a wake-up call for the human race. You're no longer at the top of the food chain.
vampire		You think I'm afraid of that toothpick of yours?
blade		You should be. I've made some improvements.
vanessa		Jason.
blade		Mother -- ?!
vanessa		I've missed you so much, Jason.  You have no idea what I've been through, how much I've wanted to see you --
blade		But you -- died --
vanessa		 Deacon brought me back.
blade		Fight him --
frost		She can't. She's one of my thralls now. She has about as much free will as a puppet on a string.  You love me, don't you, Vanessa?
vanessa		Yes.
frost		What do we have here? Your precious serum? I don't think you'll be needing this anymore.
blade		Please --
vanessa		Listen to your father, Jason. It's going to be a better world.
frost		Don't look so surprised, Blade. You've spent your life looking for the vampire who fathered you. Well you can rest easy now, you've found him.  Daddy's here.
frost		It's true, Blade. You've got my blood running through your veins.  Thirty years ago. A moonlit street, a woman on her way home alone. You were conceived the night I tore my fangs into your mother's flesh.
karen		Are you all right?
blade		 I've been better --
blade		How long have we been driving?
karen		 I don't know. I woke up just before you did --
karen		Is it bad?
blade		 We get out of this alive, maybe I'll take that miracle cure of yours.
karen		 It won't work on you.
blade		What are you talking about?
karen		Your condition's congenital, the genetic mutations occurred in utero. All the other victims contracted vampirism after birth.
karen		I can't cure you, Blade. I can cure myself, but I can't cure you.  I'm so sorry.
frost		Welcome home, children.
frost		On its surface, this building houses one of the city's oldest financial institutions -- and for over two-hundred years its served our corporate needs. Look beneath the surface, however, and you'll discover another truth entirely --
frost		As above, so below.
frost		Welcome to our hall of ancients, Doctor. We call it the Temple of Night.
frost		Let's see this sword of his.
frost		Still quite sharp, I see.
karen		Blade --
frost		You're wasting your breath, woman. He can't hear you now. It's the Thirst, you see? It already has him in its grip.
frost		How long has it been since you had your serum? Twelve hours? More? You must be quite thirsty by now.
frost		What does it feel like? Is your blood on fire? Are you burning up inside? Give in to the Thirst, Blade. Embrace your true nature.
blade		-- go to hell --
frost		I've got news for you, Blade. We're already here.
frost		Take him to the sanctuary. It's time he was bled.
frost		I'd let you watch the proceedings, Doctor, but I'm afraid that privilege is reserved for members of my own race. Don't worry, though, I've made alternate arrangements for you.
frost		We call this the Bone Pit. It's where we keep our mistakes, the ones who couldn't successfully make the transition from human to vampire.
frost		They'll feed on anything, given the chance -- animals, corpses, even other vampires.
frost		Of course, a strapping young woman like yourself -- well I think you just might be considered finger food.
frost		It's been a long road, hasn't it? Such a pity Whistler led you so far astray.
frost		I don't blame you, though. I want you to know that. Even after all you've done. I understand, Blade, I really do. It's the human side of you which has corrupted your reasoning, made you weak. But we'll take care of that, won't we?
blade		I'd kill myself -- before I turned into something like you.
frost		No you wouldn't. I'm going to bleed you dry, Blade. All the poison that makes you human.  When the Tide comes, you'll be begging me put you through the Change.
frost		It's done. We should ready ourselves for the ritual of invocation.
blade		How could you be a part of this?
vanessa		These are my people now. I'm one of them.
blade		You don't have to be.
vanessa		You don't understand. I've killed, I've hunted, and I've enjoyed it.
vanessa		I wish you could see the world as I do. Deacon opened my eyes. There's no turning back from that.
blade		I don't believe that.
vanessa		You will. Time is on our side. Sooner or later, the Thirst always wins.
blade		Mother!
vanessa		Your mother died the night you were born.
revenant		Karreennnnnn. I never thought I'd see you againnnnn.
karen		Curtis?!
curtis revenant		Tell, me, Karennn -- ever have second thoughts -- about us?
mercury		It won't be long now, lover.
quinn		We should finish him off.
mercury		 No. Deacon wants him turned.
quinn		Fucking waste, if you ask me.
frost		Tonight is the night we've waited our entire lives for. Tonight, the blood-dimmed Tide is loosed upon the world. Tonight, the Age of Man comes to an end.
karen		 Blade.
frost		 "And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?"
blade		Get out of here --
karen		I'm not leaving without you.
blade		You don't understand. The Thirst --
blade		 -- tearing me -- apart.
karen		I know. Take some of my blood.
blade		No --
karen		It's the only way. You know that. We'll never get out of here alive if you don't.
blade		I can't -- I won't be able to stop --
karen		Yes you will. The human side of you is stronger. I know it is.
blade		NO!!!!
karen		Don't stop --
karen		My God --
karen		 Are you -- all right?
blade		 Never been better.
mercury		Deacon?
frost		No longer.
blade		Who dies first?
frost		 Take him.
quinn		Grew another hand for you sweetmeat --  -- and now I'm gonna kill you with it.
blade		Let's see if you can grow a new one of these!
blade		Next?
mercury		Have a taste of your own medicine!
frost		You're too late, Blade. I'm already changing. Don't you see? The Sleeper has awakened. I'm not just Frost anymore. I'm becoming a god now, blood incarnate.
vanessa		Did you think I'd forgotten you, you little whore?
frost		You can't hurt me anymore.
blade		Where are you?!
frost		Everywhere.
frost		You want my blood so much?! Take it!
frost		I was wrong about you, Blade. You were never one of us. You're a traitor to your race.
karen		Blade!
blade		Guess you're not quite as invulnerable as you thought.
frost		You're wrong -- a few minutes more, and my transition will be complete. Even your sword won't be able to affect me then.
blade		You don't have a few minutes, Frost.
frost		 Just as I thought. Still chained to your mother's breast after all these years.
frost		 You're too human, Blade.
blade		 It's because I'm human that I can do this.
karen		I never imagined I'd be so happy to see the sun rise --  It's over, isn't it?
blade		For them. But for me --
blade		I feel like it's finally beginning.
****Dialogues from script :Blade_II.txt****

employee		Have you recently visited a tropical country?  Uh-huh?  In the past twelve months have you gotten a tattoo, non sterile acupuncture, or undergone any ear, skin or body piercing?
nurse		 I see from your questionnaire that you don't have any immediate next of kin?
nomak		Not that I'm in contact with.
nurse		Nobody to call in case of an emergency?
nomak		No --  Does that mean I can't be a donor?
nurse		It depends.  We came up with some unusual results on your blood test.
nomak		 How unusual?
nurse		Your blood has a very rare phenotype, one that's quite valuable to people like us.
nomak		Us?  What are you talking about?
doctor		It's a good news-bad news scenario, Jared.  Good news for us, bad for you.
nomak		Vampires --
blade		Tell me where he his now and I'll consider you a loose end.
vampire		Nobody's th--
blade		Old man, old man, what've they done to you --
whistler		Why didn't you finish me off?!?!  I told you --
blade		Come on, Whistler.
blade		Scud!
blade		Knock it off.  We've got work to do.
scud		Fuck me!
blade		You going to stand there crapping your pants or are you going to help me?!
scud		You got something in mind, Blade?
blade		Ultra-rapid detox.  They use it on heroin addicts, make 'em go cold-turkey in one night.
scud		I don't know about this, man --
blade		 Get back!!!
blade		It's going to be a long night.
whistler		Daylight.  Son of a bitch.
blade		How do you feel?
whistler		Like a fucking heifer took a dump in my mouth.
whistler		You came back for me.
blade		Did you think I wouldn't?
whistler		Took you long enough.
blade		Let's just hope you've kicked the Thirst for good.  I'll be watching you close. You start to back-slide --
whistler		You put a bullet in my brain.  Wouldn't expect anything else.
scud		Whistler.  Cool beans.  Nice to meet you, man.  Heard a lot.  I'm Josh Frohmeyer.  You can call me Scud, though.  That's what most people do.
whistler		Tell me something, Skid --
scud		Scud.
whistler		Whatever --  What'd you do to the Charger?
scud		The pimp-mobile?  Just made a few after market modifications.  Nitrous-oxide injection system, forged aluminum pistons and crankshaft, higher flowing fuel pump.
whistler		Gave it a more aggressive exhaust profile ramping.
scud		Fuck yeah.  Whole package'll crank this betty up another three-hundred horsepower.
whistler		 And you'll burn the damn thing out before your next fucking oil change.
scud		Look, what's your problem?
whistler		My problem, shitbird, is that I tried to blow my fucking head off and wound up sucking blood clots for the last year and a half!  Now you're standing there choking your chicken like we're all walking around some fucking candy-ass vampire sitcom!
scud		Hey, you think I don't know what's at stake here?  We practically compromised our whole operation to save your puckered old ass!  And for what?
whistler		 Our operation?!  Our operation?!  I built this operation, you fucking turd stain.
scud		Motion sensors.  Looks like Zone Three.
blade		Human?
scud		Body temp's fifty so I'll guess suck head.
whistler		They're fried.  Whoever's out there is using magnesium flares.  Seems like they've got your security system stopped out pretty well.
scud		Whoa, whoa, easy cowboy - I'm not trusting you with a weapon just yet.
blade		Hit the God-lights.
second intruder		Stop!!!!!
blade		Take off your masks.
asad		My name is Asad.  This is Nyssa.  We represent the Shadow Cabinet.  The ruling body of Vampire nation.  They're offering you a truce.  They want to meet with you.
scud		 Bullshit.
nyssa		For decades you've been the thing we've feared the most.  But there's something else loose on the streets now --
scud		This whole deal's giving me a serious case of the butt-willies.
whistler		Look, kid, they obviously found your base of operations.  If it was a trap, why flip their dicks by announcing themselves?
blade		I agree.  We play along for now, we might wind up learning something about how their world ticks.
whistler		 Either that or feeding the worms.
asad		They're ready to see you now.
blade		What?
nyssa		They tell bedtime stories about you. Blade the big, bad boogie-man.  Frankly, I'm disappointed.  That you were willing to come along so easily, I mean.  Without any assurances.
blade		Semtex explosive.  Enough to level a city block.  How's that for assurance?
nyssa		The House of Erebus you encountered before were nothing but feudal lords. The true power of the Vampire Nation lies here --
asad		Few warmbloods have seen what's beyond this door.
nyssa		Father --
damaskinos		I hope you don't mind the cold.  When one such as myself reaches an advanced age, certain precautions are needed in order to preserve the flesh.
asad		Blade, this is Overlord Eli Damaskinos.
damaskinos		 Welcome, Daywalker.  I thank you for coming.  I've been anxious to meet you for quite some time.
blade		For what?
blade		You're human.
stevens		 Barely.  I'm a lawyer.
asad		Mr. Stevens works with the National Institute of Health.  Given that they monitor the nation's blood supply, a strategic alliance seemed prudent.
stevens		We also finance a number of humanitarian organizations -- the National Institute of Infectious Diseases for one, the Human Genome Project...
blade		Why?
nyssa		Survival.
damaskinos		Thiavolos, as we used to say in Greece. The Devil.  Pure Thirst.  Nothing more. He was born a vampire, but he is an anomaly.  Like you.  Unlike the rest of us, however, he feeds on not just humans, but vampires as well.
blade		Seems like he's doing me a favor, then.
nyssa		You're missing the point.  Their vampire victims don't die.  They turn.  They become carriers.  If the Reapers continue unchecked, there could be thousands of them before the month is over.  Do the math.
blade		 You want me to hunt them for you.
damaskinos		 Not alone.
asad		We've been training a small tactical unit -- the Bloodpack.  We want you to lead them.
whistler		Just how long has this little social club of yours been together?
nyssa		Two years.
blade		Then they weren't created to go after your "patient zero".
nyssa		No.  They've been training to hunt you.
blade		What do you think?
whistler		Sounds like a plan.
blade		What do you really think?
whistler		 These guys are shitting bricks cause they're no longer on the top of the food chain.  They're going to fuck us the first chance they get.
scud		So you're going to do this?
blade		Keep your friends close and your enemies closer.  Isn't that how the saying goes?
scud		I'm worried about him.  Look, I know he's your friend, but just watch him, okay?  Nobody goes cold Turkey from the Thirst in a night.
scud		Um, we've got company.
whistler		Well if it isn't Snow White and the Seven Suckheads.
reinhardt		Check it out, troops.  Count Chocula.
asad		Blade, this is Reinhardt.  That's Snowman, Lighthammer, Priest, Chupa and Verlaine.
reinhardt		Tell me something, Chief.  Can you blush?
blade		Alright, you want to play this game?
nyssa		What the hell are you doing, Blade?
blade		We're going to be working as a unit, you people will be taking orders from me.  So let's get it over with.  I'll give you a free shot, Reinhardt.
chupa		Take him, cabron!
blade		What's wrong, Reinhardt?  You need a fucking manual?
verlaine		Do it, Reinhardt.  Do it!!!
blade		Listen up, Adolph, I just popped an explosive charge in the back of your head.  Silver nitrate.  Rigged to blow if anyone tampers with it.  I'll be keeping the detonator on me at all times.  You so much as look at me crosswise and I swear you'll be macking your girlfriend's pie with a fucking neck stump!  Got it?!
whistler		 Glaser safety rounds in .38, .45, and 9mm caliber.  Foil capsules at the tip filled with silver nitrate grains.  They pack a major kinetic energy dump.  And since you suckheads don't like sunlight, we've modified the entry lights with UV filters --
chupa		Hey, hey!  The fuck you doing?!
whistler		Getting your attention, Paco.
chupa		Well you've got it, warmblood.  Now what the fuck are you gonna do with it?
blade		If you girls are finished flirting, I'd like to get started.
verlaine		 That was my sister.
blade		This the part where you beat your chest and vow revenge?
verlaine		Something like that.
blade		Save it for the director's cut.
nyssa		The House of Pain.
nyssa		From what we can gather, the Reapers hunt in packs, targeting places where vampires congregate.  So far, they've attacked bloodbanks, safehouses, underground clubs like this --
whistler		I don't see any traffic, no vampire glyphs --
nyssa		Look closer.  Because of your efforts, we've had to re-think our habits, tighten our security.
whistler		 Let's put this clusterfuck in gear.
reinhardt		You're not going anywhere, greenjeans. You won't be able to pass for us.
whistler		Like I give a shit.
blade		 He's right.  They'll smell that you're human.  Stay here, watch our backs.
whistler		 I don't like it.
blade		I'm not giving you a choice, old man.
reinhardt		You don't keep that dog of yours curbed, Blade.  We might have to do it for you.
blade		Keep pushing, asshole.
nyssa		This is our world you're entering.  You may see things -- feeding.  Just remember why you're here.
blade		 I haven't forgotten.
priest		So what are we looking for, exactly?
asad		Anyone who looks suspicious.
blade		You gotta be kidding me.
blade		 What is it with you people and pain?
nyssa		We need it.  Sensations are addictive and pain cuts the deepest.  Tattoos, piercings, tribal scarring -- because we regenerate, none of it's permanent.  So we have to take it to the next level. To remind us we're alive.
blade		You reading me, Scud?
scud		Everything's copacetic in the Mystery Van.  How you doing, Whistler?
whistler		Walking on sunshine, toke-boy.
corpulent vampire		Close the fucking door, buddy.
nyssa		What was that?
blade		 Nothing.
scud		Um, Whistler, you out there?
lighthammer		Ohmygodhe'sfuckingkillingmehe's --
scud		UV headlights, c'mon, come on!!!
scud		Use your entry lights!  They can't stand the UV!!!
asad		Use your entry lights!
blade		 Whistler!  He's heading across the roof! Take him!
nomak		Is the enemy of my enemy my friend or my enemy?  What do you think, Blade?  What am I to you?
nyssa		You're hurt.
blade		 I'll heal.
nyssa		What about Nomak?
blade		He escaped.  You didn't tell me they were immune to silver and garlic.
nyssa		I didn't know.
blade		We lose anybody?
nomak		Lighthammer and --
priest		Oh god, oh God it hurts!  It hurts, it hurts, fuck, it hurts.  Ugh!
blade		how long since he was bitten?
nyssa		Minutes.
blade		It's already changing him --
reinhardt		Jesus, can't you get him to shut the fuck up!?
nyssa		 His blood cells aren't producing oxygen anymore.  His own body is suffocating him.  These things are like crack addicts.  If they don't feed every few hours, they'll feed on themselves.
reinhardt		Somebody put him out of his misery for fuck's sake!
verlaine		You kill him!  I'm not killing him!
chupa		Mierda!!
blade		I thought you were supposed to be watching our backs.
whistler		Ran into a little Reaper trouble myself.
chupa		 Oh yeah?  Like how little?  In case you hadn't noticed, we lost two men while you were out farting around.
whistler		 You need to ratchet those 'nads of yours down a few notches, paco.
chupa		Listen, hillbilly, you are a cunt-hair away from cowboy heaven.
whistler		Ain't no thing but a chicken wing, buttercup.
blade		 Where were you, Whistler?
whistler		I'll show you.
reinhardt		What the hell?
whistler		I found him like this.  I think he was trying to crawl back into that culvert.
nyssa		 Everything okay?
damaskinos		 Yes?
stevens		 They've made contact with the Reapers.
damaskinos		 Any casualties?
stevens		 Two so far.
damaskinos		 An inevitability, I suppose.  Nyssa was not among them, I trust.
stevens		No.  This is a dangerous game, you're playing, Damaskinos.
damaskinos		Any game worthy of being played is.  One must be patient.  In this way, I have outlived my enemies.  All of them.
stevens		Blade's too volatile.  You're not going to be able to keep manipulating him --
damaskinos		You worry too much, Stevens.  I have assurance from our friend inside that events are unfolding as scripted.
stevens		As scripted?  You've already lost two of your own.  How many more are you willing to sacrifice?
damaskinos		As many as it takes.  Do you see that jar over there?
blade		Recognize him?
nyssa		 From the surveillance footage in the bloodbank.  He was one of the guard's Nomak attacked.
blade		Which means he turned about seventy-two hours ago.
nyssa		Right.  So why is he dying?  He doesn't appear to have any broken bones, no entry wounds of any kind -- what's killing him?
blade		Time.
nyssa		If that's true, what about Nomak?  He's been alive longer than the others.
blade		Nomak's different.  He's the carrier.  There's something driving him beyond the Thirst.  Something we're missing.
scud		Ho-lee shit.
nyssa		I've never seen anything like this.  The Reapers are as different from us as we are from you.  It's almost as if the virus is re-wiring their bodies, creating new, parasitic organs which consume the old ones.
blade		Like cancer with a purpose.
nyssa		Exactly.  Look at the digestive system. It's been drastically simplified.  Super charged.  And this --
scud		Good luck getting a stake through that.
blade		We've got six hours till sunrise.  Be ready by then.
asad		What happens at sunrise?
blade		We take up the hunt again.
chupa		You gotta be fucking joking.
blade		You've seen what we're up against. Daylight's the only advantage we've got. They'll be more vulnerable then.
reinhardt		 And so will we.
blade		Look, I care about the humans who are dying, not you, got it?
reinhardt		 Spare me the race card, OJ.  We're not going out into the sun.  It's too risky.
blade		You don't have a choice.  You're just going to have to protect yourselves as best you can.
reinhardt		You buying any of this chocolate Elvis bullshit?
chupa		This guy doesn't know what the fuck he's doing.  We already lost Priest and Lighthammer, who's gonna be next?  Fuck him.  Fuck his rules.  First chance I get, I'm chowing down on that fucking HeeHaw sidekick of his.
verlaine		What do you think, Asad?
asad		 I don't think.  I follow orders.
whistler		You ask me, you and Miss Muffet are getting a mite too cozy for my taste.
blade		I wouldn't worry about it.
whistler		I am worrying.  Seems to me, you're starting to get confused as to which side of the line you're standing on.
blade		Pretty hollow words coming from a man who spent the last year running with the enemy.
whistler		What the hell is that supposed to mean?
blade		It means I'm starting to wonder if the vampires still have their hooks in you. You've been acting strange ever since I gave you the cure.  Reckless, quick to anger --  You said it yourself, Whistler.  Those vampires knew our defense system backwards and forwards.  Where'd they get their intel?
whistler		I'm compromised?!  Me?!  I'm not the one playing stink-finger with Vampirella out there!
blade		You're out of line, old man.
whistler		 We'll see.
dealer		Lookin' to get hooked up?
chupa		What you got?
dealer		Horse, Hawaiian ice.  Whatever you want.
chupa		Whatever, huh?  Well I'm all off the hook on that bitch.
dealer		So what's it gonna be?
chupa		Fear.
blade		What do you think you're doing?
chupa		Trying to feed, puto baboso!
nyssa		Do it and you die.  You heard Asad.  Until this is over, these people are our allies.
chupa		Oh I haven't forgotten about Asad.  I'm just wondering if you have.
nyssa		He's right about one thing.  We do have to survive.
blade		You don't have to hunt to do it.
nyssa		Really?  What are we supposed to do, then?  Starve ourselves because we fee on others in order to live?  What about that scumbag you just let off the hook? A nothing.  A drug-dealer.  How do you justify saving people like that?
whistler		 The hell are you fiddling with there?
scud		 Tweaked the phosphor rod, modified the collimated beam, wanna concentrate the light, get something like a UV laser going.
whistler		 You're wasting your time, already been tried.
scud		Yeah, but you didn't have the Scudster working on it, did you?
whistler		 Nope.  Back then we did not.
scud		 So how long have you known Blade, anyway?
whistler		Going on twenty years now.
scud		Blade doesn't talk about the old days much.
whistler		Blade doesn't talk about anything much.  What about you, though?
scud		I was backpacking.  Hooked up with these two chicks who were off to see the Burning Man festival.  We were gonna take "E", have ourselves a little freeball out in the desert.  You know the riff, "Dear Penthouse, I never thought this would happen to me, but --"
scud		The powerpacks have a limited charge, maybe ten minutes of continuous use at most.
nyssa		What are these?
scud		UV flashbang grenades with plug-in phosphor sticks --  This is for the grand finale.  Wired together a couple-dozen of those puppies.  But I'd be careful where you pop your load.  Might end up frying yourselves in the process.
whistler		What about you?  You're not coming?
scud		After last night?  Dude, I'm a lover, not a fighter.
asad		What good is all this firepower if we don't know where they're hiding?
blade		We won't need to.  They'll come to us.
reinhardt		How?
nyssa		They're pheromones.  I infused them from that Reaper's adrenal glands.  All mammals use them to mark their territory.  Even vampires.
chupa		Fuck that!  I'm not spraying some gash hound's nut-juice on me!
nyssa		Trust me, the Reapers will key to it. If we use this, we'll draw them out.
blade		Time for Nyssa's pheromones.
whistler		Eau de suckhead.  Tasty.
blade		We'll split into three units.  First team that makes contact wins the prize. Try to maintain radio silence from here on out.
chupa		Turn it off.
whistler		Yeah, but you fangs can see in the dark. What am I supposed to do?
chupa		Bifocals, grandpa.  And try to keep up.
whistler		 Shit!
blade		Must be hundreds of these skeletons here.
reinhardt		So?
blade		So I think you people may have underestimated how many Reapers you're dealing with.
whistler		What the fuck you doing?
chupa		Ain't nobody here but you and me, chicken wing.  I'd say this is as good a time as any to settle up.
blade		Fry 'em.
asad		What?  Where did they go?
verlaine		Screw that, where did Snowman go?
nyssa		Jesus, they were playing possum!
blade		Take mine!
blade		 Re-group!  Re-group!
nyssa		Where's Chupa?
whistler		Forget him, he's chunk-style.
asad		Same with Snowman and Verlaine.
whistler		Guess that perfume of yours did the trick after all?
blade		 A little too well, I'd say.
whistler		Perfect.  We got the whole fucking Partridge family here.
blade		Give me the rest of the pheromones.
asad		What are you doing?
blade		Verlaine's body is back there somewhere with the UV bomb.  If you train your guns in that direction, you'll drive an opening in their ranks.  I'll run for it.  When the Reapers come after me, you make a break for it the other way.
asad		You won't make it.
blade		 Then I'll die trying, won't I?
nyssa		Blade.
blade		Save it.  I don't want to hear your words.  Let's do this NOW!!!
er nurse		Sir, you can't just --
doctor		What?!
blade		She needs a hypertransfusion.  NOW!
doctor		 God in Heaven.
policeman		Alright, buddy, step away if --
blade		Do you want to die?
doctor		Not particularly.
blade		 Then get your fucking team in gear.
nyssa		Each day is a little life.
blade		What?
nyssa		"Each day is a little life.  Every waking and rising a little birth, every fresh morning a little youth, every going to rest and sleep a little death."
blade		I don't think so.
nyssa		Thank you.
blade		For what?
nyssa		It would've been easy for you to let me die back there today, but you didn't.
blade		 I wouldn't read too much into it.
nyssa		Why?
blade		Because one of us is going to kill the other before this ends.
nyssa		It doesn't have to be like that.  We don't have to be enemies.
blade		Get real.  I was useful to Damaskinos as long as the hunt was still on.  Now that it's over, all bets are off.
nyssa		 If that's true, then why'd you save me?
blade		I am a hunter.  A weapon.  It's what I do.  It's in my blood.
nyssa		Well it's in mine, too.  I'm a pureblood.  I wasn't turned.  I was born this way.  Just like you.  Am I evil because I want to survive?  What about a wolf?  What about any predator?
blade		Pain cuts the deepest, isn't that what you said?
scud		What's going on?
blade		He was here.  Watching us.
scud		Nomak?
blade		He wants us to know he's hunting us now.
nyssa		I don't understand.
blade		Where the hell have you been?
whistler		Just out connecting a few dots.
blade		What's your problem, Whistler?
whistler		Why don't you ask your girlfriend?
blade		Then who does he work for?
whistler		Some biotech outfit called Caliban Industries.  They've been lying to us since day one.  This Nomak fucker didn't evolve.  He was designed.
nyssa		I don't know what he's talking about.
whistler		You expect us to believe that?  Who you going to trust, Blade?  Me or her?
stevens		You?
blade		 Start talking, bitch.
stevens		I don't know what you --
blade		Nomak!  You created him!
stevens		Ohgodohgodohgod...  PLEASE!  PLEASE!!!
blade		Keep talking, Stevens.  Tell me why.
stevens		 The Shadow Cabinet.  For decades they've been trying to find a way to rid themselves of their hereditary weaknesses.  Viral epidemiology, immunochemistry.  Recombinant DNA was the next logical step.
nyssa		 No, that's not possible.  They wouldn't keep something like this from me...
stevens		Your father didn't want you to know.  Something went wrong.  The Reaper strain was too aggressive.  Then Nomak escaped.
whistler		And we're supposed to clean up your mess.  Fucking perfect.
stevens		 Look, the fact that Nomak was artificially created didn't make the threat any less urgent.  He was still out there, spreading the Reaper virus.
blade		The genetic material you spliced into Nomak --  Where did you get it?
damaskinos		Jared Nomak is your genetic brother. And I suppose if you follow that line of reasoning to its logical conclusion, then these are your offspring.
reinhardt		Put it back in park, Blade.
blade		Thought you were dead.
reinhardt		Seems like there's a lot of that going around these days.
nyssa		Blade!
blade		Kiss your ass goodbye, Reinhardt.
scud		You're wasting your time, Blade.  The flechette's a dud.
reinhardt		Thought you had me on a short leash, didn't you, chief?  Only it turns out, you're the one that's been on the leash.
scud		See, I'm one of Damaskinos' familiars.
whistler		You little shit.  When did they get to you?
scud		Back when Blade had me hunting down your puckered old ass.  What's up with your hair, anyway?  Fucking Willie Nelson look-a-like?
blade		 I switched that dud of yours back with the real one.
reinhardt		Son of a bitch!
damaskinos		Reinhardt!
reinhardt		What about him, then?  Me and Hobo Kelly here have a little unfinished business.
whistler		Not nearly enough, Fritz.
reinhardt		Keep talking, warmblood.
whistler		Been dead before.  Didn't much cotton to it.  Tell you what, chicken shit.  You do your worst.  We'll settle up after.
damaskinos		 My child --
nyssa		Nomak said something to Blade in Greek. Athelfiki singenia ex amato.  Where did he learn that?
damaskinos		From his father, of course.
nyssa		 You experimented on your own, son?
damaskinos		I have fathered thousands of children in centuries since I first walked this earth.  Make no mistake, Nyssa.  Those blood-ties mean nothing to me when measured against the ascendancy of our race.  Nothing.  If you have any interest in remaining alive, you would do well to remember that.
damaskinos		With every century, humans become more repulsive to me.  Once, you were souls to be taken, corrupted.  But you have disgraced yourselves to being nothing more than blood and meat.
stevens		We're going to harvest you, Blade.  Bone marrow, organs, everything.  Your tissue's too valuable to let go to waste.
blade		 Nomak is still out there.
damaskinos		True, but thanks to you, we know his weakness.  We can keep him contained. It's just a matter of time before we hunt him down.
blade		Too bad you're out of it.
damaskinos		And why is that?
blade		Revenge.  That's what Nomak wanted all along.  To pay back the people who created him.
stevens		You may be right.  Fortunately for us, he has no idea where this facility is located.
blade		He does now.  He's been watching me since the tunnels. Following me.  I led him right to you.
nomak		 FATHER!
damaskinos		Stop him!
reinhardt		Shit!
damaskinos		Get out of the way.
whistler		Come on, Blade.  Talk to me!
blade		 Blood...
stevens		What are you doing?!!
reinhardt		Stop him!!!
whistler		GO!!!
blade		Tell me something, chief.  Can you blush?
damaskinos		Are you insane?  He'll kill us both!
nyssa		Maybe it's better that way.
damaskinos		 For God's sake, Nyssa!  Let us out of here!
nomak		 Why are you frightened, father?  The prodigal son has returned.
blade		 Get out of here!
nomak		 Blood brother.
nyssa		How does it look?
blade		 Not good.
nyssa		It won't be long now.  I can already feel it burning inside me --
blade		What do you want me to do?
nyssa		I want to see the sun rise.
nyssa		Each day is a little life.  Remember?
rush		-- yelling for your tender touch, you can never get enough --
rush		Voulez-vous coucher avec moi, ce soir! Voulez-vous coucher AVEC MOI!!!
blade		What?  You think I forgot about you?
****Dialogues from script :Blade_Runner.txt****

leon		Okay if I talk?
leon		I kinda get nervous when I take tests.
holden		Don't move.
leon		Sorry.
leon		Already had I.Q. test this year -- but I don't think I never had a...
holden		 Reaction time is a factor in this, so please pay attention.  Answer quickly as you can.
holden		You're in a desert, walking along in the sand when all of a sudden you look down and see a...
leon		What one?
holden		What?
leon		What desert?
holden		Doesn't make any difference what desert -- it's completely hypothetical.
leon		But how come I'd be there?
holden		Maybe you're fed up, maybe you want to be by yourself -- who knows.  So you look down and see a tortoise.  It's crawling towards you...
leon		A tortoise.  What's that?
holden		Know what a turtle is?
leon		Of course.
holden		Same thing.
leon		I never seen a turtle.
leon		But I understand what you mean.
holden		You reach down and flip the tortoise over on its back, Leon.
leon		You make these questions, Mr. Holden, or they write 'em down for you?
holden		The tortoise lays on its back, its belly baking in the hot sun, beating its legs trying to turn itself over.  But it can't.  Not without your help.  But you're not helping.
leon		Whatcha mean, I'm not helping?
holden		I mean you're not helping! Why is that, Leon?
deckard		Contact.  This is Blade Runner One
voice		Blade Runner One, stand by please.
voice		Deckard.
deckard		Yah, Gaff.
deckard		You know where I been.  I been on vacation.
gaff		Next time you go on vacation, do me a favor, let us know where it is.
deckard		What's up?
gaff		Holden got hit.
deckard		Bad?
gaff		Severed spine.  You'd better get in here.  Bryant's waiting for you.
deckard		I'll see you in a minute.
deckard		Six, huh?
bryant		Five.  Three nights ago one of them managed to break into the Tyrell Corporation.  Killed two guards and got as far as the Genetic Sector before he got fried going through an electro- field.
deckard		What was he after?
bryant		There wasn't much left of him, so we can't be sure.  But bio- chemical data and morphology records of the Nexus-6 were reported missing.  Going on the possibility they might try to infiltrate we send Holden in to run Voight-Kampff tests on the new employees.  Guess he found himself one.
deckard		You got a machine on it yet?
bryant		We're using Esper -- a 231 -- that picked up Holden's alarm.  Its guess is that all five are in the city.
deckard		Where do we start?
bryant		The Tyrell Corporation has a demo model.  Check it out on the Voight-Kampff.  There's a chance the Nexus-6 is beyond out ability to detect.  If that's the case, everybody's up shit creek.
deckard		What was the cover on the one that got Holden?
bryant		Industrial refuse.
deckard		Garbage man?
deckard		Did personnel have an address on him?
deckard		I'll go take a look.
deckard		Thanks.
announcer's voice		Choose from a variety of seventy nine different personality types. Each and every one a loyal trouble- free companion given to you upon your arrival absolutely free...
announcer's voice		To use as personal body servant to tireless field hand -- the custom tailored humanoid robot, designed especially for your needs.
batty		Did you get your precious 'things'?
leon		Somebody was already there.
batty		Police.
leon		Just a man.
batty		Police man.
batty		Why don't you have a seat.
batty		Enjoy the view.
chew		Well, you're right.  This little honey has a couple of defective cones.
chew		You're a regular perfectionist, Sebastian.
sebastian		It's gotta be right for my customer.
chew		Your customer, eh?
chew		You got a pocket-charger, boy?
chew		Is that good enough for your customer?
chew		How much is he paying you?
chew		Well, when do you get paid?
sebastian		Soon as I finish the job.
chew		When might that be?
sebastian		Day after tomorrow.
chew		Oh!  Day after tomorrow.
chew		The rich hate to pay, Sebastian. A guy like Tyrell keeps you waiting. Pay the little guy last.  You should charge twice as much.  It'll make him feel better.
sebastian		Thanks, Mr. Chew.
sebastian		Hey!  You forgot your...
sebastian		How come you were in my truck?
pris		I was tired and didn't have any place to go.
sebastian		You can get back in if you want...
sebastian		Don't worry, I won't hurt you.
sebastian		What's your name?
pris		Pris.
sebastian		Mine's J.F. Sebastian.
pris		Hi.
sebastian		Oh!  Where do you want to go?
sebastian		You want to go home?
pris		I don't have one.
sebastian		Oh.
sebastian		Where are your folks?
pris		They left.
sebastian		What about friends?
pris		I have some, but I have to find out where they are staying.
sebastian		Well, where should I take you?
pris		We scared each other pretty good didn't we?
sebastian		We sure did.
pris		I'm hungry, J.F.
sebastian		I've got stuff.  If you wanna go to my place?
pris		I was hoping you'd say that.
esper		This is Esper and I'm ready.  Go ahead please.
deckard		You equipped for random questions?
esper		Why, yes, of course.
deckard		You start.
esper		The five in question are third generation Nexus Sixes, constructed of skin-flesh culture, selected enogenic transfer conversion capable of self-perpetuating thought, para-physical abilities and developed for emigration program.  Are you with me?
deckard		How do I stop one?
esper		Unlike a five, they can sustain massive traumas to several parts of the body without debilitating another.  Sever a leg and it will perform quicker on the remaining leg than the fastest man can run,
deckard		Okay, but...
esper		I'm coming to that.  Vulnerable zone is the base of the skull, the occipital bone.  A direct hit is a positive retirement.
voice		You are in violation of traffic ordinance M-139 statutory freeway limit restricted by one-hundred and eighty kilometers.
sebastian		Oh!
pris		Whatcha doin'?
sebastian		You scared me.
sebastian		I'm working.
sebastian		You look... better.
pris		Just better.
sebastian		Beautiful.
pris		Thanks.
pris		And you live in this building all by yourself?
sebastian		Yeah, I live here pretty much alone right now...
sebastian		No housing shortage around here... plenty of room for everybody.
pris		How old are you?
sebastian		Twenty.
pris		What's your problem?
sebastian		Methuselah Syndrome.
pris		What's that?
sebastian		My glands.  They grow old too fast.
pris		Is that why you're still here?
sebastian		Yes.  I couldn't pass the test.
pris		I like you just the way you are.
sebastian		Ah, you get hold of your friends?
pris		As a matter of fact I did.  They've got some work to do tonight, but they're gonna come tomorrow.
sebastian		Good.
sebastian		I can sleep on the couch.
mouse		Don't let the bed bugs bite!
esper		Nexus designated Leon:  incept date April 10th, 2015 -- to be used in military experiments to determine how hyper metabolism functions in deep space. Nexus designated Batty incept data April 10th, 2015, combat model, level of self-sufficiency, optimum.
esper		Here's something you might find interesting.  They have been built to emulate the human in every way except in its emotional spectrum. However, after a period of time it is only logical that such a 'mechanism' would create its own emotional responses, hate, love, fear, anger, envy.
deckard		I know all that.
esper		What about a summary then.
deckard		I think we're through for the night.
esper		Mr. Deckard.
deckard		Yes?
esper		Do you have something against science?
deckard		Not if it works.
esper		And what in your estimation works?
deckard		The umbrella.
rachael		Hello, Mr. Deckard.  My name is Rachael.
rachael		It seems your department doesn't believe out new unit is to the public benefit.
deckard		A humanoid robot is like any other machine, it can be a benefit or a hazard.  If it's a benefit, it's not our problem.
rachael		But because your department can't do an adequate job in detecting the miniscule number at large, it's a problem.  Correct, Mr. Deckard?
rachael		You like our owl?
deckard		It's artificial?
rachael		Of course not.
rachael		You're in a very unique position, Mr. Deckard.  You could affect the future of this entire organization according to how you work your little test.
rachael		Are you apprehensive?
deckard		Why should I be?
rachael		For the responsibility of your power.  Being a police bureaucrat, you've got more than your share.
deckard		You got it wrong, girl.  I work with the bureau not for them.
deckard		My job isn't to detect malfunctioning andies, it's to eliminate them.  The more the better.
rachael		Mr. Deckard.  Dr. Eldon Tyrell.
tyrell		How do you do, Mr. Deckard.  Please sit down.  Would you care for a cup of coffee?
deckard		Thanks.
tyrell		Black?
deckard		Please.
tyrell		Somehow, I didn't expect that the man who did the dirty work would be the man to do the technical work.  Here you are, Mr. Deckard.
tyrell		Is this to be an empathy test?
deckard		Yes.
tyrell		Capillary dilation of the so-called blush response?  Plus fluctuation of the pupil, plus involuntary dilation of the iris?
tyrell		May I ask a personal question?
deckard		Go ahead.
tyrell		Have you ever retired a human by mistake?
deckard		No.
tyrell		But in your profession that is a risk.
deckard		Nothing is infallible, but so far the Voight-Kampff scale bas been foolproof.
tyrell		Like you said, Mr. Deckard, a machine can be a hazard.  The Voight-Kampff scale is a machine, isn't it?
deckard		One that relies on human interpretation.  Where's the subject?
tyrell		Sitting next to you.
deckard's voice		Ready.
rachael		Go ahead.
deckard		You're given a calfskin wallet for your birthday.
rachael		I wouldn't accept it.  Also, I'd report the person who gave it to me to the police.
deckard		You have a little boy.  He shows you his butterfly collection, plus the killing jar.
rachael		I'd take him to the doctor.
deckard		You're watching T.V. and suddenly you notice a wasp crawling on your wrist.
rachael		I'd kill it.
deckard		In a magazine you come across a full-page photo of a nude girl.
rachael		Is this testing whether I'm an android or a lesbian?
deckard		You show the picture to your husband. He likes it and hangs it on the wall. The girl is lying on a bearskin rug.
rachel		I wouldn't let him.
deckard		Why not?
rachael		I should be enough for him.
deckard		You become pregnant by a man who runs off with your best friend, and you decide to get an abortion.
rachael		I'd never get an abortion.
deckard		Why not?
rachael		That would be murder, Mr. Deckard.
deckard		In your opinion.
rachael		It would be my child.
deckard		Sounds like you speaks from experience.
deckard		Last question.  You're watching an old movie.  It shows a banquet in progress, the guests are enjoying raw oysters.
rachael		Ugh.
deckard		The entree consists of boiled dog stuffed with rice.
deckard		The raw oysters are less acceptable to you than a dish of boiled dog.
deckard		Lights please.
tyrell		Well?
deckard		If she is, the machine works.
tyrell		The machine works.  She is.
tyrell		How many questions did it take?
deckard		Thirteen.
deckard		She didn't know?
tyrell		Memory implant.  She was programmed. But I think she has transcended her conditioning.  I think she was beginning to suspect.
tyrell		How many questions does it usually take, Mr. Deckard?
deckard		Five, maybe six.
tyrell		You're going to have to be on your toes, my friend.
tyrell		It's a complex problem and we wouldn't want anything to happen to you.
tyrell		For the good of all, I recommend you take Rachael with you. Considering her uniqueness, I'm sure she could prove quite helpful.
deckard		No thanks.
tyrell		And how is it one man will be able to cover so much ground?
deckard		Discreetly.
tyrell		All pertinent information is being fed into your departmental computer, an Esper 231 -- I believe -- and a photo over-lay packet is being produced.
tyrell		Mr. Deckard, I think it would be wise to reconsider my offer.
deckard		I work alone.
voice		Let's keep our eyes on the road, Deckard.
deckard's voice		Sorry.
voice		Come on, stay with the machine.
voice		We're going to have to start the sequence again if you don't stay with me, Deckard.  Concentrate.
deckard's voice		How do you know I'm not?
voice		You're not responding to the stimulus.  I can see right here, I'm not getting a reading.
deckard's voice		I'm tired of this.
voice		Almost through.
deckard		So how did I do?
wheeler		Nerves of steel.
deckard		No rust?
wheeler		I didn't say that.  Your motivity rate checked out a little slower than last time.
deckard		Meaning?
wheeler		Meaning you don't run as fast as you used to.
wheeler		During the road test...
deckard		Yeah?
wheeler		Your mind kept wandering.  That bothered me.
deckard		Huh huh.
wheeler		Considering the nature of your work, that could be unhealthy.
deckard		True.
wheeler		You got a birthday coming up.
wheeler		But you haven't put in for emigration.
deckard		Nope.
wheeler		You're going to be over the limit.
deckard		Listen, I could make you a long list of complaints about this fucken city but I still rather be here than up there.
wheeler		What if you change your mind?
deckard		They'll change the limit before I change my mind.
wheeler		You sure?
deckard		Never been more sure of anything in my life.
deckard		Why didn't you go?
wheeler		Too old.
deckard		But if you could?
wheeler		My job is here.
deckard		Me too.
batty		What's going on down there?
pris		He's not ready yet.
batty		When?
pris		Tomorrow, he says.
rachael		Was that your dinner?
rachael		I'm sorry.  I called and found out you were on your way home.  These were already delivered to your department but I thought you should have copies as soon as possible.
rachael		It's the Nexus information you wanted.
deckard		Thanks.
deckard		Is there anything else?
rachael		I know you think it complicates your work, but I'm here to help.
deckard		I've already got more help than I need.
rachael		I think you need more help than you've got.
rachael		There's two reasons a man rejects help.  Either because he's so good at what he does he doesn't think he needs it, or he's so insecure he can't admit it.
deckard		Sounds like I'm an ass-hole either way, but the answer is still no.
rachael		Two of us might be more effective than one.
deckard		I work alone.
rachael		No you don't.
rachael		You use your equipment, don't you?
deckard		So?
rachael		So, I'm a piece of equipment. Use me.
deckard		That's okay, I'll get it...
rachael		Do I make you nervous?
deckard		Yeah.
rachael		I'm sorry.
rachael		It's strange to suddenly realize that what you thought was your life is actually someone else's fabrication.
deckard		I can imagine.
rachael		Can you?  I couldn't.
rachael		A part of me is glad.  I think I feel more.  I don't like who I was before.
deckard		So why do you think they were after their records.
rachael		They probably want to find out when they were made.
deckard		Right.
rachael		I guess the date of your birth is important if you know you're not made to last.
rachael		That's my number.  If you need me.
rachael		You better get better locks -- if you want to keep me out.
rachael		Good night.
deckard		Night.
deckard		Yeah.
bryant		Bryant here.  Regarding the rundown you requested on job applicants, Esper's concluded that the only irregular category that Tyrell's got is the entertainment section.  You better get on it.
deckard		I was just about to have my dinner.
bryant		If you hurry you'll get back before it gets cold.  I got a spinner on your roof in five minutes.  Good luck.
epser		Nexus designated Rachael is a prototype.  Created for in-house use by special mandate form the Scientific Development Regulatory Committee.  Will live conventional term -- no para-physical abilities.
deckard		What is a conventional term?
esper		Four years.  Which would make her termination date...
deckard		Never mind.  Do they have that knowledge?
esper		Longevity is classified.  No.
deckard		Okay, gimme a run-down on the three females.
esper		Nexus designated Mary:  incept November 1 2017, domestic conditioning non competitive, trained for day care position.
deckard		Next.
esper		Nexus designated Pris:  incept data December 13 2017, competitive, programmed to provide pleasure for long term spacers.
deckard		Number three.
esper		Nexus designated Zhora:  incept June 13th 2017, athletic conditioning, highly competitive, special abilities in the entertainment field.
deckard		Fuck.
deckard		Taffey Lewis?
taffey		Yes?
deckard		Can I come in?
taffey		Excuse my niece there... She's studying for an exam.
deckard		I'd like  you to take a look at these pictures.
taffey		Of course.
taffey		You see I lost my contacts a couple of days ago around here somewhere and my sight is a little... What am I supposed to be looking for?
deckard		Do you recognize any of them?
taffey		This one looks familiar, but I don't know.  Naw.  There's one came in today looks a little like this one but...
deckard		What did she want?
taffey		Who?
deckard		The girl that doesn't look like that girl.
taffey		Nothing.  She wanted to know about suck night.
deckard		What night?
taffey		I didn't know if I wanted to handle her -- I already got a snake act.  But my partner goes down there to the Opera House on suck night to book the good ones.
deckard		What's suck night?
taffey		That's what we call in the trade, audition free-for- alls and most of it sucks. Bit I don't think that's her.
deckard		You talking about the Opera House on the Main?
deckard		Book the good ones for where?
taffey		Lots of places.  The tours, the clubs, the Silicone shows, private parties.
deckard		What shows?
taffey		Silicone Valley.  Lots of these science guys never leave that place.  We book two shows a month in there. Those big time techs and bio- guys might be real high zoners up here, but when it comes to the arts, they like it loud and lewd.
announcer's voice		Let's hear it for the Hermano Brothers.
announcer's voice		Next we're gonna see a little charmer who keeps her dancing partner in a basket!  She comes to us all the way from exotic Casablanca.  'Salome.'
deckard		Excuse me, Miss Salome.
deckard		I'd like to have a word with you if I could.
salome		Yeah?
deckard		I'm with the American Federation of Variety Artists...
deckard		Don't worry, I'm not here to make you join -- that's not my department.
deckard		I'm an investigator for the Confidential Committee on Moral Abuses.
deckard		There's been reports of management sexually abusing the artists in this place.
salome		I don't know nothing about it.
deckard		You haven't felt yourself to be exploited by the management in any way?
salome		How do you mean 'exploited'?
deckard		Like to get this position.  Did you or were you asked to do anything lewd or unsavory or otherwise repulsive to your person?
salome		Are you for real?
deckard		Oh, yeah. You'd be surprised what goes on around here.  I'd like to check the dressing room if I could.
salome		What the fuck for?
deckard		For holes.
salome		I don't believe this.
deckard		It that mother real?
salome		Of course he's not real.  You think I'd be working here if I could afford a real snake?
deckard		It's a good job.
salome		You mean the snake.
salome		The best.
deckard		Does it eat?
salome		Come on.
salome		Jeezus!
deckard		Sorry.
salome		Hey!  Do your job but don't wreck mine, huh?
deckard		They have their ways of doing their dirty work without the victim knowing what's going on.
deckard		You'd be surprised what a guy'll go through to get a glimpse of a beautiful body.
salome		I bet I would.
deckard		Little dirty holes the bastards drill in the wall so they can watch a lady undress.
salome		And what if somebody did try to 'exploit' me?  Who do I go to?
deckard		Me.
salome		And who do I go to about you?
deckard		Hmmmmm?
zhora		You ever get the feeling things aren't the way they seem?
deckard		Stop or you're dead!
cop		Drop it!
sergeant		On your belly!
deckard		Listen, Sergeant...
cop		Hey, Sarge, this guy's a cop.
sergeant		Clear this fuckin' crowd.
bryant		Just because it's a Nexus 6 doesn't change procedure.  A little known fact can become a well-known fact and part of our job, Deckard, is to make sure that doesn't happen. Now how can be do that if you blow one away in front of a fuckin' audience.
bryant		Well?
deckard		She was gonna get away.
bryant		Then let her get away.  I thought you were a pro -- you're supposed to be a fuckin' tracker!
bryant		I'd say you got a little carried away.
deckard		I didn't like her.
bryant		You didn't like her!?
bryant		You start liking or disliking andies it's time to hang it up.
bryant		Look, go home.  Get some rest. Take an aspirin.
deckard		Yeah.
bartender		I can't protect your drinks, mister; while you was in the potty, this hummer snatched it.
deckard		No problem.  Gimme another.
russian		Forgive me.  I thought was free drink.  I will pay.
deckard		Forget it.
leon		I think I have no money.
deckard		It's okay.  Forget it.
leon		But I would like to buy you drink.
deckard		I'll but you one.  What'll you have?
leon		Vodka!
deckard		Shot of vodka, please.
leon		Thank you very much.
deckard		My pleasure.
leon		Prosit.
deckard		Prosit.
leon		You want to see my friends?
deckard		Sorry, don't have the time.
leon		No problem.
deckard		Those cockroaches?
leon		Ya.
deckard		How long you had these guys?
leon		Two months.  But this one is not guy.  It is girl.  His girl.
leon		Usually Blackie waits until Igor is eating; then, when his back is turned, he tries to take advantage of Anna.
leon		Prosit.
deckard		Prosit.
leon		You never saw a cockroach make love?
leon		We will try.
leon		It must be that he is not hungry or maybe she is not hot.
leon		You like to kiss her goodbye.
deckard		No thanks.
bartender		Make sure you take your girlfriends with you when you leave.
leon		I like you.
deckard		I like you too.
leon		One more, eh?
deckard		I gotta piss.
deckard		I think I'll piss outside.
leon		How come you know where Zhora was so quick?
deckard		I showed pictures.  Somebody recognized her.  I went to see.
leon		How old am I?
deckard		I don't know.
leon		My birthday is April 10, 2015. How long do I live?
deckard		Four years.
leon		More than you.
leon		Painful to live in fear, isn't it.
leon		But that's how it is to be a slave.  The future is sealed off, he grovels, he waits.
leon		Sex, reproduction, security, the simple things.  But no way to satisfy them.  To be homesick with no place to go.  Potential with no way to use it.  Lots of
leon		I tell you, nothing is worse than having an itch you can never scratch.
deckard		Like I said, I don't need your help.
rachael		You look terrible, you know that?
deckard		Hey!  I thought you were supposed to be taking care of me.
rachael's voice		What do you need?
deckard		Don't just stand there looking at me.  It's not polite.
rachael		What do you want me to do?
deckard		Sit.
deckard		Gimme your arm.
deckard		You ever take a bath with a man before?
rachael		There's a lot I haven't done with a man before.
rachael		You're getting me wet.
rachael's voice		Sorry, I am not in at the moment, but if you'll leave your name and number I'll return your call as soon as I can.
deckard		Fuck you, then.
sebastian		Mr. Deetchum?  Hello?
sebastian		Now, now, Waddles.
sebastian		Hello, Wrigley.
sebastian		Mr. Deetchum isn't taking very good care of you people.
batty		Whoops.
pris		This is my Uncle Roy, Sebastian.
batty		Hello, glad to meet you.
pris		And my Aunt Mary.
pris		And this is my savior, J.F. Sebastian, everybody.
batty		Can't thank you enough, Mr. Sebastian. If you hadn't come along...
mary		We were worried to death.  It's awfully kind of you.
batty		We're not used to the big city. Where we come from it's not so easy to get lost.
mary		You certainly have a nice place here.
batty		Well stocked.
pris		Sebastian doesn't like to go out too much.
sebastian		I keep a lot of provisions right here.
batty		I like a man who stays put.  An admirable thing to be able to sustain yourself in these times. You live here all by yourself, do you?
sebastian		Well, no, not really.  There's Mr. Deetchum, he's the watchman, he lives on the first floor.
mary		We haven't found it easy, Mr. Sebastian.
sebastian		How about breakfast, I was just going to make some.
batty		If it wouldn't be too much of a bother... a little bite to eat would be...
sebastian		Oh, no bother, I'd be glad to.
batty		Well, actually
mary		We're famished.
sebastian		Okay, then.  You make yourselves comfortable and I'll bring the food right out.
batty		Charming.
pris		Well?
pris		I want to know what's going on.
batty		There's only three of us left.
pris		Then we're stupid and we'll die.
batty		Not if everybody is doing their job here at home.  How are things at home?
pig		Home again, jiggidy jig.
pris		I don't trust him.  I don't think he knows what he's doing.
batty		He knows what he's doing.
mary		If he won't cooperate?
batty		Mr. Sebastian is a host who wants to be appreciated.  We'll appreciate him and he'll cooperate.
deckard		How are you doing, old man?
holden		I'm great.  I mean, I know I'm not really great, but I feel just great.  How you like my new suit?
deckard		Well, you don't have to worry about getting it wrinkled.
holden		Don't make me laugh.  It makes me pee.
deckard		Sorry.
holden		Hey, it's okay.  I like to pee. So how are you doing?
deckard		I'm doing okay.
holden		From what I hear you're doing great.  Bryant tells me you're going like a god damn one-man army.  Making a lot of money, huh?
deckard		Yeah.  But that's what I wanted to talk to you about.
holden		Money?
deckard		No.  I got a problem.
holden		Let's hear it.
deckard		I think I'm starting to empathize with these Nexus-sixes.
deckard		What's that?
holden		I'm taking a piss.
holden		Let me ask you something, Deck. You been having intimate relations with one of these units?
holden		That's what I thought... one of the liabilities of the trade -- you has sex with your prey, old buddy.  That's bound to create problems, unless you're a black widow.
deckard		What about -- not sex -- but love?
holden		Love is just another name for sex. Love is sexy and sex is lovely -- I don't care what you call it, an android can't have it.
deckard		These aren't just...
holden		I know what they are, Deck -- Look, maybe they can pretend to feel, but far as the raw, hot emotions of the old heart -- no way.
holden		Believe me, take it from an old pro, no matter how good we get, we're never gonna make an artificial anything that can feel.  It's a contradiction. You might as well go fuck your washing machine.
holden		Just go out there and keep up the good work.
holden		Got to save it, Deck, I'm getting sleepy.  It's been good talking to you.
deckard		Thanks.
rachael		I told you I'd come back.
deckard		You did?
rachael		You didn't hear me.  You were sleeping.
rachael		Are you glad I'm here?
rachael		Who is this?
deckard		Me and my dad.
rachael		Where is he?
deckard		Dead.
rachael		Oh.
rachael		How come you're not on the job?
deckard		I am.  Part of my job is to sit on a couch and try and figure things out.
rachael		How are you doing?
deckard		Not too good.
rachael		What do people do in the afternoon?
deckard		If they are smart, they take naps.
rachael		Do you dream?
deckard		Yeah.  Sometimes.
rachael		I wish I could.
deckard		Wishing is a kind of dreaming.
rachael		I mean asleep.
rachael		Did you cry when your father died?
deckard		Yeah.
rachael		That's another thing I can't do.
rachael		Nobody is freer than when he dreams.  I read that.
deckard		It wasn't very good last night, was it?
rachael		I don't know, I have nothing to compare it to.  I guess I thought there was something more to it.
deckard		What?
rachael		I don't know... I think I missed something.
deckard		Like?
rachael		I'm not sure.  Is there a secret?
deckard		I don't know.  If there is I'd like to find it.
batty		Why are you staring at us?
sebastian		You're just all so... so different.
batty		What, Sebastian?
sebastian		You're androids.
pris		What makes you think so?
sebastian		You're all so perfect.
sebastian		What generation are you?
batty		We can trust Sebastian, ladies. He's been working with mechanisms all his life.  He's a wizard and a very perceptive man.
sebastian		Could you...
sebastian		Show me something?
batty		Like what?
sebastian		Like...
batty		We're not computers, Sebastian, we're physical.
pris		I think, therefore I am.
batty		Very good, Pris.  Now show him why.
batty		We have a lot in common.
sebastian		You mean that you can't come here and I can't go there?
batty		Not only that, but we have smiliar problems.  Accelerated decrepitude. But we don't want to die quite yet.
sebastian		Of course not.
batty		You could help us.
sebastian		I don't know much about biomechanics, Roy.  I wish I did, but you're out of my league.
batty		If we don't find help soon, Pris hasn't got long to live.
batty		What about your friend, the man who owns this building?
sebastian		Dr. Tyrell?
sebastian		He's not really my friend.  I just do a job for him now and then.
batty		Tyrell could help us, Sebastian.
sebastian		He could?
batty		His company made us.
sebastian		I'd be happy to mention it to him.
batty		Be better if I could talk to him in person.  But he's not an easy man to get to.
sebastian		No.
batty		When do you deliver your project?
sebastian		This afternoon.
batty		Will you help us?
sebastian		Yes.
batty		I'm sure glad you found us, Sebastian.  What do you think, Mary?
mary		I don't think there is another human being in this whole world who would have helped us.
batty		Pris?
batty		You're our best and only friend.
sebastian		Thank you.
rachael		When was the last time you cleaned this place?
deckard		Hmmm?
rachael		Have you ever cleaned your apartment?
deckard		Don't be fooled by appearances.
rachael		It appears to be dirty -- why don't you get somebody?
deckard		Because they would ruin the arrangement.
rachael		They could clean around the arrangement.
deckard		I don't like people snooping around my stuff.
deckard's voice		There's a vacuum in the front room closet is you wanna give it a try.
deckard		Oh no, don't do that.
rachael		But if I don't plug it in how can I...
deckard		Never mind the plug, just go through the motions.
rachael		But then how can you...
deckard		I don't like the noise.  Just practice.  Practice makes perfect.
deckard		I'm serious.  Go ahead.  Show me how you would do it.
deckard		How about under the couch there. Come on.
rachael		This feels stupid.
deckard		Good for a smart girl to feel stupid.  Part of your education.
rachael		You're sick, Deckard.
deckard		I never felt better.
styles		Okay, I'll take that now.
sebastian		Wait!
sebastian		Can't fly without the pilot.
ian		Oh!
ian		Papa!  Did you make this?
tyrell		No.  We can make man, but not a griffon.
tyrell		Have to give the cottage industry a chance too.
tyrell		A friend of yours, Sebastian?
sebastian		Yes, this is someone who wants to talk to you, Dr. Tyrell.
batty		The name is Batty.  Roy Batty.
tyrell		Oh?
batty		To act without understanding could lead to the very thing the act seeks to avoid.
batty		A little talk it all I need.
tyrell		Would you like to talk in private then.
batty		Yeah.  It might be better if we talk in private, Sebastian.  Why don't you go home.
tyrell		Here's your check, my boy.  Thank you.
sebastian		Thank you, Dr. Tyrell.  I'll see you later.
sebastian		Was everything okay?
tyrell		Just beautiful.
tyrell		I'm surprised you didn't come to me sooner.
batty		It's not an easy thing to meet your maker.
tyrell		And what can he do for you?
batty		Can the maker repair what he makes?
tyrell		Would you like to be modified?
batty		Had in mind something a little more radical.
tyrell		What's the problem?
batty		Death.
tyrell		I'm afraid that's a little out of my...
batty		I want more life, fucker.
tyrell		Come here.
tyrell		Sit down.
tyrell		The facts of life.  I'll be blunt. To make an alteration in the evolvement of an organic life system, at least by men, makers or not, it fatal.  A coding sequence can't be revised once it's established.
batty		Why?
tyrell		Because by the second day of incubation any cells that have undergone reversion mutation give rise to revertant colonies -- like rats leaving a sinking ship.  The ship sinks.
batty		What about E.M.S. recombination?
tyrell		We've already tried it -- ethyl methane sulfonate is an alkylating agent and a potent mutagen -- it creates a virus so lethal the subject was destroyed before we left the table.
batty		Then a repressor protein that blocks the operating cells.
tyrell		Wouldn't obstruct replication, but it does give rise to an error in replication, so that the newly formed DNA strand carries a mutation and you're got a virus again... but all this is academic -- you are made as good as we could make you.
batty		But not to last.
tyrell		Put it this way.  Rolls Royces are made to last -- as least they were. But I'm afraid you're a Ferrari. A high strung racing car -- built to win, not to last.
tyrell		Also you're too valuable to experiment with.
batty		I am?
tyrell		The bast of all possible androids. We're proud of our prodigal son -- glad you're returned.  You're quite a prize.
batty		I've done some questionable things.
tyrell		Also extraordinary things.
batty		Nothing the God of biomechanics wouldn't let you in heaven for.
batty		Could you tell me where the bathroom is?
rachael		You and I are good friends, huh?
rachael		It's so easy.
rachael		Have you ever known anybody a long time?
deckard		You mean a woman?
rachael		Uh-huh.
deckard		What's a long time?
rachael		Ten years.
deckard		Nope.  Nobody could stand me that long.
deckard		Yeah.
bryant		This is Bryant.  Are you alone?
deckard		Yeah.
bryant		She's not with you?
deckard		Who.
bryant		Take a number.  Canapt 1700, tenth floor, Villa Vita District, Olympia South.
deckard		Got it.
bryant		Okay, here it is.  Eldon Tyrell, his family and half his staff were just massacred.  The cat is about to get out of the bag.  Pressure is definitely on.  The Nexus program is terminated.  When you finish there, locate Nexus designated Rachael and retire.
bryant		If you don't, we will.  It has to be total, Deckard.  That's an order from as high as it comes.  Got it?
deckard		Yeah.  I got it.
bryant		Go.
rachael		Why do you call it retire, why don't you call it murder?
deckard		Because it's not.
rachael		Don't you think anything that can suffer deserves to be considered?
deckard		Andies only simulate suffering -- if they're programmed for it.
rachael		Do you think I simulated what happened between us?
deckard		No, I don't.
deckard		Don't leave here.  Don't open the door, don't answer the phone.
rachael		What difference will it make?
deckard		Just wait here.
rachael		You know what I think?
deckard		What?
rachael		That some of the folks around here are more programmed then me.
rachael		You know what else I think?
decakrd		What?
rachael		This was the best day of my life.
mary		Let's go while there is still time.
batty		Where?
mary		Anywhere.
batty		What's the point?
mary		Not to be trapped.
batty		You underestimate the trap, Mary.
batty		Where are you going, Sebastian?
sebastian		Just thought I'd...
batty		No, you stay here with us.  Out last night together.
batty		Think of yourself as a light, Mary. Shine before you're turned off.
sebastian		Someone is coming here.
batty		One man.  He must be good.
mary		Then go get him.
batty		That wouldn't be very sporting.
pris		I want to do it.
batty		Okay, but don't kill him.  Save a little for everybody.  A masterpiece.
batty		Turn out the lights, Pris.
pris		Naughty, naughty.
deckard		Hello, Roy.
batty		You wanna play?
batty		Not very sporting to fire on an unarmed opponent.  I thought you were supposed to be good.  Aren't you the man?!
batty		This is how we do it up there, lad! Come on!
batty		Not hurt, are you?  You better get it up or I'm going to have to kill you.  Unless you're alive you can't play.  And if you don't play, you don't get to be alive.
batty		That's the spirit.
batty's voice		Come on, Deckard, show me what you got!  I'm right here on the other side of the door.  But you gotta shoot straight 'cause I'm fast!
batty		Straight doesn't seem to be good enough.
batty		You don't have a chance, do you?
batty		Looks like I'm gonna have to scale it down for you.  Give you a handicap.  I won't run through any more walls.  Okay?  I promise to use the doors.  Okay?
batty		Come on, let's use that brain!
batty		Think!  We need a little resilience around here!
batty		Where are those balls of yours?! Let's see a little bravery!
batty		That was irrational of me -- not to mention unsportsmanlike.  Won't happen again.
batty		I'll be down the hall when you're ready.
batty		Where you going?
batty		No cheating.  A promise is a promise.  I'll honor the handicapped, but we gotta play on the top floor.  You go get your laser gun now.  And I'll give you a few seconds before I come.
batty's voice		One!
batty's voice		Two!
batty's voice		No fair jumping through holes.  You might get hurt doing that!  THREE!
batty		Five!
batty		Six!
batty's voice		Seven!
batty		Oh, I wonder where he is.  Not in here, I don't think.  Eight!
batty		Maybe here.  Doesn't sound like it.  Nine!
batty		Ten!
batty		One point for you.
batty		Ho ho!  Try it again!
batty		What's wrong?  Don't you like me? I'm what we've made!
batty		What's wrong?  Aren't you a lover of Faster, Bigger and Better?!
batty		It's time to die.
batty		Ah!
batty		That's for you.
batty		Stick it in your ear and push. If that doesn't work, try the eye.
batty		Believe me, it'll be better for you than what I'm about to do.
batty		Well?
batty		Crap.
****Dialogues from script :Blade__Trinity.txt****

male figure		That's great. We've got dick.  Is there any reason we had to embark on this cluster-fuck during the day?
danica		Night-time's too tricky, Grimwood. You know that.
grimwood		What is this chicken-scratch?
danica		Cuneiform. Dates back about four thousand years.
grimwood		So why here?
danica		Because this was the cradle of civilization.  He would've been comfortable here.
asher		I don't know, Dan.  Seems like another dead-end.
wolfe		I'm not so sure --
wolfe		There's something beneath us.
asher		Is that a body --?
grimwood		What the fuck --?!
asher		Radio back-up.  See if they can open it from the other --
danica		What's he been doing?
asher		Nothing.  Just sitting there since we brought him here.
hendrix		 Do you think we've got enough security?
danica		Hendrix, if he wanted to out of there - there isn't an army in the world that could keep us safe.  We didn't capture him.  He allowed us to take him in.  You understand?  Now open up.
danica		Your people need you, Sire.
voice		What makes you think I wanted to be brought back?
danica		Times have changed.  Science has made great strides.  Your blood, the sacrament you provide -- it can set us free now.
voice		I see.  And the one I killed earlier?  He was vampire?  You must forgive me.  It had been centuries since I last fed.
danica		I understand.
voice		Then offer yourself to me, child --  -- and let me quench my thirst again.
asker		Danica!  Are you alright --?!
danica		Let him out -- he wants to see what's become of his world.
larry		Tonight, Dr. Edgar Vance, forensic psychiatrist and author of the New York Times best seller "Human Health: The Whole Being Breakthrough".  Also with us is Martin Vreede, Chief of Police.  They're here for an hour and they'll take your calls.  Next on Larry King Live.
larry		Dr. Vance -- you're a psychiatrist and a biochemist, isn't that right?
vance		Yes.  I've long believed that in order to achieve true health, we have to reconcile the body and the mind.  Of course that also requires letting go of a lot of our old notions and superstitions, which is what my work is all about.
larry		Let's talk about that.  How do you account for the fascination with things that go bump in the night?  Movies, books, videogames -- seems like we can't get enough of our boogeymen?
vance		Monsters provide a means for us to transfer our more primal and darker urges into something external.  In the case of vampires, you're dealing with taboo issues like predatory rage and sexual sadism. These are scary subjects for people to own up to.
larry		So we pass the buck to someone else?
vance		Exactly.  Historically, people suffering from medical conditions have always been our psychological scapegoats.  In the Middle Ages schizophrenia was often attributed to demonic possession.
larry		And vampires?
vance		Well, there's a hereditary blood disease known as porphyria that has symptoms remarkably similar to the classic vampiric traits.  People suffering from this disease are anemic, they become sensitive to sunlight, they can't tolerate garlic --
larry		Which is too bad, since my doctor tells me that's good for the heart.  Chief Vreede?  What's your take on all the recent rumors we've been hearing about vampires?
vreede		The only vampires I'm worried about are the ones passing the bar exam.  Seriously, if vampires existed, don't you think we'd be on to them by now?  The truth is, our streets have never been safer.  Homicides, assaults -- violent crime is down across the board.  If people want to be concerned, they should focus on criminals like Blade.
larry		Now who's this?  Tell me about him.
vreede		He's a sociopath we've been pursuing.
vance		Blade is a very disturbed individual. Even the name he's chosen for himself is troubling.  According to witnesses, he operates under the belief that a vast conspiracy of vampires live amongst us. You have to look at the psychiatric underpinnings here.  What does a person like Blade really want? Odds are, he's really trying to work out some kind of inner trauma.  He thinks he's slaying monsters, but he's really trying to murder aspects of himself.
blade		Whistler!  I'm on the Stonebridge overpass at Clemons --
whistler's voice		Got it!  Heading eastbound, I'm just beneath you --
whistler's voice		-- GO!!!
old woman		I hope that wasn't a dog.
blade		Staked you with silver.  Why aren't you ash?
gedge		Why aren't you smarter?  Not a vampire, dumbshit -- set your sorry ass up --
blade		How should I know?  He was human.
whistler		You've been getting careless, Blade.  You kill a vampire, they ash, don't leave any proof of their existence.  But something like this, a human corpse, it's messy --  -- you better hope nobody IDed you.
woman's voice		It was horrible.  The one car crashed, and then the guy in the coat was shooting the other guy --
reporter		 That was just a taste of the mayhem that occurred during tonight's brazen shoot-out that left at least four people dead.  Now apparently an anonymous citizen captured the whole event on video --
cumberland		Book us a flight, Hale.  Time to take these cowboys down.
whistler		I'll take this too.
fbi agent		Subject is heading West.
cumberland		Got him.
whistler		Somebody screwed us.  Your face is all over the papers, the television.  Media's eating it up.
blade		Like I care?
whistler		You should.  Something like this --  -- taking out a human, even one working for the vampires -- far as the rest of the world's concerned, you're public enemy number one.
blade		Didn't realize this was a popularity contest.
whistler		Damnit, Blade, don't you see what's happening?!  The fuckers are finally getting smart.  They're waging a goddamn PR campaign.  Now it's not just vampires we have to worry about, we're gonna have to take on the rest of the world too.  They've got us on the run.  These last few months we've barely been staying ahead of the curve.
blade		You worry too much, old man.
whistler		I've been doing this since before you were born, Blade.  The moment you stop worrying, you're dead.
whistler		Since the day I found you, you've been like a son to me.  I taught you everything I know.  But I'm tired.  You understand?  EXT. INNER CITY STREET - NIGHT
dingo		C'mon, just pick one.
proof		Once you buy a prize, it's yours and yours to keep.
flick		Got it, got it!  Baby on board!
dingo		Looks like we got ourselves a combo meal.
dingo		Hey, pretty lady.
proof		Sophisticated mama.
dingo		Scream if this hurts, chica!
flick		--aghhk -- it's fucking garlic!
abigail		Scream if this hurts, chica.
whistler		What is it?
blade		What you've been worrying about.
agent		On the floor!  ON THE FLOOR!
cumberland		Lock it down!  Keep them contained!
agent's voice		 Some kind of self-destruct program! They're fragging their hard drives!
blade		WHISTLER!
cumberland		Take him down!
agent		Move a finger and you're dead.
whistler		 How 'bout this one?
blade		WHISTLER!!!
blade		Who --?
cumberland		Special Agents Ray Cumberland and Wilson Hale, FBI.  We've been tracking you for a long time.
blade		Whistler --
hale		Dead.  Just like all of your victims.
cumberland		How many people have you killed?  Thirty? Forty?  A hundred?
blade		Those were familiars -- people who worked for them --
cumberland		And by "them" you mean vampires, right? I suppose next you'll be telling us that Bigfoot's in on the conspiracy too? So what kills these bloodsu~kers, tough guy? Maybe you can give us some pointers.  You can stake 'em, right?  Then there's sunlight -- what about crosses, Wilson? Do those still work?
hale		I don't know, Ray.  What if a vampire's Jewish?
cumberland		That's a good point.  And does garlic work on a Hindu vampire?  Or do you need saffron or something?
cumberland		You can keep doing your song and dance as long as you want, Blade, but it's not going to play.  You're a stone-cold killer.  And you're sick as fuck.
vance		Hello, Blade.  My name is Doctor Vance. I'm with the Department of Mental Health. I've been charged with conducting a psychiatric evaluation of you.  Gentleman, would you mind giving us a few moments alone?
vance		I imagine this must be very frightening for you.  But I want you to know that I'm here to help.  In order to do that, however, I need to ask you some questions.  Now.  Can you tell me what day it is?
vance		What about the President?  Do you know who's in the White House at the moment?
blade		An ass-hole.
vance		 Alright then, let's talk about vampires -- what can you tell me about that?
blade		There's nothing to tell.  They exist.
vance		And are you one of them?
vance		What about blood?   When you drink it, do you find yourself sexually aroused?
vance		You see, it strikes me that this business of vampirism has strong connotations of sexual confusion.  Bodily fluids being exchanged, that sort of thing.  You have to ask where that comes from.  I'm wondering, for instance, what your relationship was like with your mother. Were the two of you close?
vreede		What's your assessment, Doctor?
vance		He's psychotic, with paranoid features, possessing dangerous levels of sociopathy. He's exhibiting disorganized behavior.  He obviously doesn't have a properly formed conscience --  For his safety and the public's, I'm recommending that he be transferred to County Psychiatric for further treatment.
cumberland		That's unacceptable.  This man's wanted in connection with a laundry list of federal crimes.  I need him on a plane to the Detention Center in Washington tonight.
vance		Agent Cumberland, that man is in no condition to undergo prosecution.
hale		Chief, we've got a federal arrest warrant here that clearly supersedes --
vreede		I don't care about your warrant.  We're in my jurisdiction now.  You've got an issue with that, you take it up with the local magistrate.
vance		I'm sorry, gentlemen, but the call has already been made.  A team from the hospital should be here momentarily to oversee the transfer.
danica		Hi.  We're here to transfer a patient to County General?
vance		 Just a little something to keep you compliant.  The normal dose is two, maybe three hundred milligrams.  But for a strapping young hybrid like yourself --
vance		-- I think we'll kick it up to a couple thousand.
vance		There.  That wasn't so bad, was it?  You're weak, aren't you?  In need of your serum.  Who would've guessed a mere human like myself could overpower you?
blade		 You're with them -- a familiar --
vance		Going on five years now.
vance		It's the end-game, Blade.  All their plans are finally coming to fruition.  So just sit back and enjoy the show.
blade		He's one of them!  Damnit, he's working for them!
cumberland		Just hold it right there --
danica		Easy, lover. You're not going anywhere.
danica		We moved the humans around like, pawns, Blade.  Used them to flush you out.
grimwood		Don't worry, Captain Sunshine.  Soon as we get you out of here, you'll get a chance to play.
danica		Don't make this any harder than it has to be.  You're all alone, Blade.  No one can help you now.
king		Why'd the Polish vampire starve to death?
king		He kept biting his own lip.
danica		King!
king		Let's FLY, kemosabe!
cumberland		He's getting away!
king		Don't die on me, you undead motherfucker!
king		Whistler!  We need that serum NOW!
king		Hey Blacula, you ready to shake and bake?
blade		Call me that again and I'll give you fucking brain damage.
king		We're pinned down!  Can't you do something?!
blade		I can't shoot around corners!
abigail		I can.
blade		 My sword.  They still have it.
king		 Are you insane?!  We're practically home free!  We can't go hunting for your fucking butter-knife now!
king		Hey!  HEY!!!  COME BACK HERE!!!  This is supposed to be a rescue!
abigail		Forget it, King.  Let's move.
blade		Now we can go.
king		 Is he epic or what?
dex		My name is Dex.  And I'll be saving your ass this evening.
dex		We have him.  We'll be there soon.
king		 So my entrance back there -- what do you think?  Too flashy?  Right on the money?
blade		Who are you people?
king		My name's Hannibal King.  I'm a hunter, like you.  And this little hellion is Abigail Whistler.
king		That's right, Blade.  You're not hearing things.  She's Whistler's daughter.  You see, Abby, Dex, myself -- we're all part of Whistler's "contingency plan".
king		Juicyfruit?
blade		I thought the vampires murdered Whistler's family.
abigail		They did.  I'm the product of an earlier fling of my Dad's, born out of wedlock. After the murders happened, he kept me hidden.  He wanted me safe.  Away from all of this --  -- but I guess hunting just runs in our blood.
abigail		When I came of age, I tracked my Dad down, told him I wanted in.  Been doing it ever since.
king		Welcome to the honeycomb hideout.
blade		 How do you bankroll this place?
king		Internet porn.  See, we're using cock suckers to pay for the blood-suckers.  Joke.  Come on, man.  This isn't some piddly little hoopty-ass operation, Blade. We take our jobs very seriously.
king		You met Dex.  This is Hedges, Sommerfield--
king		 The runt you saw earlier is Sommerfield's daughter, Zoe.  We call ourselves the Nightstalkers.
blade		You sound like rejects from a Saturday morning cartoon.
king		We were gonna call ourselves the Super Friends, but that was taken.
abigail		Tiller needs adjustment.
hedges		I'll run it through the bow press.
blade		How many of you are there total?
king		Enough.  We operate in sleeper cells. When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack.  Consider us your reinforcements.
blade		Sorry.  Never been much of a team player.
sommerfield		I don't think you understand, Blade. Whistler meant for us to help you.  When he died, he activated an emergency protocol.  All his knowledge --
sommerfield		--was transferred to our servers here.
blade		And what makes you think you know so much about killing vampires?
king		Well for starters, I used to be one.  Do I pass the audition?
danica		I should've ripped his ripped his bleeding heart out when I had the chance!  And don't you dare tell me "I told you so"!
asher		You through remodeling?
danica		Blow me.
asher		Face it, Dan.  We got caught with our pants down.  We underestimated the Nightstalkers.
grimwood		Pants down?!  They practically fucking ass-raped us!
asher		Has he been told yet?
man		Yes, I've been told.
man		Perhaps it's time I entered the fray.
king		You know the kind of woman that just screams trouble? You see her and every warning bell in your brain starts going off but you still ask for her number? Well that's all I ever hook up with.  But this betty blew 'em all away in the shitstorm sweepstakes.
king		Her name's Danica Talos.  You met her earlier.  The man on her left is Asher, her brother.
king		The neanderthal behind them is Jarko Grimwood.
king		I picked Danica up in a bar, had a one night stand with her -- then spent the next five years playing step-and-fetch-it as her little vampire cabana boy.  That's called turning a frown upside down.
abigail		We need to pool our resources, Blade.
blade		Why?
abigail		Because He's come back.
blade		You gotta be kidding me.
king		He's real, Blade.  Dig beneath all the movies and myths.  All the layers of bullshit that've cluttered our culture for the last five hundred years and eventually you'll strike the truth.
blade		 So the movies are true?
king		 See, good old Brain Stoker, he wrote a nice yarn.  But the events he described in 1897 were only a tiny piece of the mosaic. The rea1 Dracula's origin goes back much earlier than that.
blade		How early?
abigail		Try six or seven thousand years.
king		Nobody really knows the specifics of his origin.  But we do know this:  he was the first of his kind.  The patriarch of the hominus nocturna.
king		He's like the Patient Zero of evil.  The original Serpent in the Garden of Eden. And just like the Great White shark, he's never had to evolve.  This guy was born perfect.  Scour the history books --
king		-- he up and disappeared.  About a century ago the trail went cold.  Then we heard a rumor.  The vampires were searching for him -- trying to find the place where he'd retreated.  According to our information, they found him in Iraq about six months ago.  And he was pissed.
drake		In the window -- you sell vampire merchandise?
goth guy		Uh, yeah -- look around, we might have a few things.
goth vixen		We've got Dracula lunchboxes.  Did you see those?  And there're bobbleheads, Pez dispensers.  We've got just about anything --  -- even vampire vibrators.
goth vixen		Here, check this out --
goth vixen		"Dracola".  Makes you want to cry, doesn't it?
goth vixen		Was there something special you needed?
blade		Why wake up Drake now?
abigail		That's what we've been trying to figure out.
king		When I was under the fang there used to be talk about some kind of vampire 'Final Solution'.  But I could never figure out why they'd want to destroy their food source.  I mean, seems stupid, right? They've always had plans for the human race.  Seems likely that whatever they're cooking up, Drake's return is a part of it.
blade		Like what?
sommerfield		A biological weapon.
king		Think about it, Blade.  We could wipe them all out in a single move.
blade		So what's been holding you back?
sommerfield		 We've tried it on a number of captive subjects.  We've got the disease vector worked out fine -- it's easily transmittable.  But the lethality in vampires is still spotty.
abigail		Bottom line is, we need a better DNA sample to work with.  We need Dracula's blood.
sommerfield		Vampire DNA is a hodge-podge of different genes, mixed in with all sorts of useless junk DNA.  Because Dracula's the progenitor of the vampire race, his DNA is still pure.  It hasn't been diluted by a hundred generations of selective mutation. It still has all the necessary cellular compounds for the virus to code to.  We get his blood, we can boost Daystar's viral efficacy to a hundred percent.
king		So.  You want to join our club?  Can we sign you up for a Nightstalkers secret decoder ring?
drake		This world sickens me.  The humans have soiled it with their filth.
danica		We can raze their cities to the ground. We can bring the old world back.
drake		Come closer.
danica		 I can't.
drake		And do you know why?  Once, all of my kind could brave the day. We were true predators.  The world was ours.  And then, somewhere along the way, the purity of our bloodline became diluted.  Polluted with human DNA.
danica		That's impossible --
drake		Is it?
drake		You are bastard children.  No longer as pure as you pride yourselves on being.
drake		My people.  How far you have fallen.
hedges		We've got a wide assortment of ass- kickery for your viewing pleasure --  Electronic pistol.  Comes with a built-in fingerprint security system.  Fires a three-shot burst in 1/500th of a second. Bullets can also be triggered remotely.
blade		Explosive rounds?
king		But with a concentrated burst of UV light instead of your standard hollow-points.  I call 'em sun dogs.  Hedges -- super-size me, baby!
king		This little mamacita -- a modified version of the Army's Objective Individual Combat Weapon.  Pick your poison -- stakes, sun dogs, heat-seeking mini-rockets.  Whatever gets you hard, this puppy will pump out.  Of course it doesn't have the range of a sword but --
hedges		We call this the UV arc --
hedges		You hold the arc in the center, curved away from you.  Connecting the tips is a powerful UV laser beam.  Because of its high focus, the laser cuts through vampire flesh like a knife through butter.
king		We're still trying to sort out fact from fiction when it comes to Dracula.  Turning into mist?  Kinda doubt it.  But general shape-shifting?  Maybe.
hedges		 Not into a bat or a wolf or anything like that.  But another human, someone with the same approximate body mass -- given enough practice it might be possible.
blade		How?
hedges		He wouldn't have a traditional skeletal structure.  Probably something more like a snake, with thousands of tiny bones in the place of a normal array.  Commensurate with this would be an exquisite control of electrical potential across his tissues, resulting in an ability to effectively change shape at will --
king		 Question.  Have you ever been laid, Hedges?
blade		Time to apply some pressure.  The weak link in the vampire chain of command has always been their familiars.  Vampires can't go out in the day, so they get humans to do their dirty work for them Blood-running, safe house maintenance, whatever --  We bleed the wanna-be vampires, they'll lead us to the real thing.
king		She's making playlists.  Likes to listen to MP3s when she hunts.  Her own internal soundtrack, you know?  Dark-core, trip hop, whatever kids these days are listening to.  Me?   I'm more of a Kenny G fan.
blade		Want another spin, ass-hole?  Eventually, your head's gonna pop off.
hoop		Shit!  Oh Jesus, please, please --
blade		Who's your handler?
hoop		I don't know his name, I swear I --
vance		This is Dr. Vance.  Did someone page me?
king		Hey, Blade -- why didn't the vampire bite Mick Jagger?  Cause you can't get blood from a Stone.
narrator		 Regain control of your life.   Wake to a new dawn.  At the Vance Institute for Whole Being we believe in an integrated approach to human health.
vance		I'm Dr. Vance.  Welcome to our facility. As a member of the medical profession I want to assure you that I will do everything in my power ro provide you with the care and compassion that you deserve.
security guard		Excuse me, can I help y--
vance		What does it mean to be human?  Since the dawn of creation our ancestors have asked ourselves that question.
vance		The modern world today is filled with countless challenges.  In every direction we look, toxic stressors are impacting upon our happiness.  We think we're healthy, but the truth is, our immune systems are engaged in a life or death struggle to maintain our well being.
executive assistant		I'm sorry but you can't --
vance		Now, I'd like to take a moment to exolain how a series of remarkable new breakthroughs can immeasurably improve the quality of your life
vance		What --?
blade		Payback, Vance.
king		Jesus, it's him!  It's Drake!
woman		My baby
drake		 Just so we understand each other, Daywalker.
blade		Why did you kill Vance?
drake		He'd outlived his purpose.  He'd become a liabi1ity.
drake		Your sword -- I've seen that hilt before. Eight or nine centuries ago.  The hunter who carried it was an accomplished fighter.
drake		He was honorable, in his own way.  He died a good death.
blade		I wouldn't know about that.
drake		You lie.  You're part of a grand tradition, Blade.  You hunters have plagued my people since the day we first walked the earth.  And I have vanquished them.  One by one.
blade		How can you exist in the daylight?
drake		I've always been able to.  Haven't you read Mr. Stoker's fable?  I was the first of the vampires.  I am unique.
blade		 That's why they brought you back.
drake		Yes.  My children seek to isolate the properties in my blood that make me immune to sunlight.  Through me, they believe they can all become Daywalkers.
drake		The world's changed much since I went to sleep.  How crowded it's become.  Look at them down there.  Lives brief as fireflies.  Do you think they can ever grasp what it means to be immortal like us?
blade		You're not immortal.  I must've heard a hundred of you people make the same claim. And every one of them's seen the end of my sword.
drake		Perhaps I will as well, then.  But I think it's more likely that you will fall before mine.  Catch.
king		Jesus, it hurts.  I wanna be a vampire again -- fuck!  Did you see that guy?! We're gonna lose, man.  We're gonna fucking lose.
blade		What's that?
abigail		Fibrin sealant foam, it's an elastic protein.  Help me spread the wound open. The foam should seal the hemorrhaging in his body cavity from within --
king		Hey, hey -- what'd the one lesbian vampire say to the other?
abigail		Shut up, King.
king		-- see you in twenty-eight days --
king		Hey, Blade -- say we're successful.  Say we wipe the vampires out.  What happens then?  You ever ask yourself that?  Somehow I don't picture you parked on a porch with a jigsaw puzzle.
hedges		So basically we're in an arms race. They're using Drake's DNA to build themselves a better vampire --
blade		 How's this weapon of yours coming along?
sodderfield		We're almost there --
sommerfield		The virus is harmless to humans.  So we decided to go after the vampires' food source.  The one thing we know for sure about vampires is that they have to drink blood. If we manage to pull this off, we'll be able to contaminate every blood source on the planet.  They won't have anyone left to feed on.
abigail		Doesn't do us any good if we don't have time to finish it.  We can't just sit here.  We need to take the battle to them.
sommerfield		If the vampires are trying to isolate the hereditary factor in Drake that makes him immune to sunlight, they'll require certain kinds of laboratory equipment and provisions.  For instance, there's an enzyme called Taq Polymerase.  And there are only a limited number of suppliers.  Give me a few hours.  I'll see if I can't hunt us up some leads.
drake		Why do you wear that -- symbol?
danica		 Old habits --
danica		I was a good Catholic school girl    Once.
drake		I was there when they crucified him.  He died -- for their sins, not mine.
danica		 And what are your sins?  Would you care to confess them?
drake		 Take it off.
danica		Why?
drake		I'll make you a better one.
drake		There's an old saying --
drake		Kill one man, you're a murderer. Kill a million, a king.  Kill them all, a God.
zoe		Why do you do that?
blade		There's something bad inside of me.  This keeps it from getting out.
zoe		Why can't you just be nice?
blade		Good question.
sommerfield		Biomedica Enterprises.  They've been buying up all sorts of supplies -- Taq polymerase, bone marrow growth supplement, genetic sequencing enzymes.
blade		We'll check it out.
blade		Doing a little moonlighting, Chief?
blade		C'mere.  We need to talk.
blade		Now spill it, bite-boy.
hendrix		 You know what we're doing.  Drake has come back to us.  Soon we'll all be Daywalkers. And when that day comes, the world will truly be ours.
blade		What's back there?
blade		 Thanks.
blade		What's behind Door Number One?
vreede		They'll kill me --
blade		 So will I.  But I'll enjoy it more.
abigail		God in Heaven --
blade		What was this place?
vreede		It's a blood farming facility.  They decided that hunting humans on a piece-meal basis was too inefficient. Why kill your prey when you can keep them alive?  Productive.  Under optimal conditions a donor can generate anywhere from fifty to a hundred pints of blood a year.
abigail		 But where did you get all these people?
vreede		The streets.  In any given year you've got two to three million homeless people wandering around America --  No one cares about them.  We're doing the country a service, really.
blade		The vampire Final Solution.
abigail		Are they aware?  Do they feel anything?
vreede		 They're in a chemical-induced coma. They're brain-dead, vegetables.
blade		Look at this!  Is this the future you want?  You think there's a place for you in their world?
vreede		We don't have a choice!  They're going to win, don't you see that?!  He's come back! There's nothing stopping them now!
blade		There's me.
blade		Go.  You've got thirty seconds.
computer		CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM -- AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR.  AMNIOTIC FLUIDS -- INPUT DELAY/ZERO. ABNORMAL SAMPLES/TWO. BANDING QUALITY/SEVEN-POINT-TWO --
sommerfield		'The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good.  Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad indeed.  Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the more he believed he would be able to accomplish it --'
computer		CYTOGENETICS AUDIT DATA FROM -- AUGUST FIFTEENTH, TWO-THOUSAND AND FOUR.
king		You get me those Fruit Roll-ups like I asked --  Dude.  Aren't you dead?
computer		BLOODS -- INPUT DELAY/ZERO. ABNORMAL SAMPLES/SEVEN. BANDING QUALITY/EIGHT- POINT-ONE --
sommerfield		Guys?  You okay --?
sommerfield		Zoe, go find some place to hide, sweety.
sommerfield		Damnit, go!  Get out of here, Zoe!
abigail		King --
abigail		 Zoe -- where's Zoe?
abigail		Where is she?!
blade		Use it.
king		Back off, pooch --
king		Jesus Christ!
king		What the fuck?!  WHAT THE FUCK?!?
asher		His name's Beau.  We've been experimenting with porting the vampire gene over into other species.
king		You made a goddamn vampire dog?!
grimwood		Yeah.  Cool, huh?
danica		Poor little King.  You look so distraught.
danica		You're tasting a little bland, lover.  Not getting enough fatty acids in your diet? Have you tried mackerel?  Lake trout?
king		How about you take a sugar-frosted fuck off the end of my dick?
danica		Oh, there'll be time to play doctor later, believe me.  But for now, we need to have a little talk.  Tell us about this bio-weapon you've been building.
king		I can tell you two things.  Diddly.  And shit.  And diddly just left the building.
grinwood		Spit it out, you fucking fruitcake!
king		Okay, here's the deal with the weapon -  It's a new flavor crystal formula.  Twice the chocolaty-goodness, half the calories. Plus, it helps prevent tooth decay --
danica		You're brave, King, I'll give you that. But underneath all your swagger --
danica		-- I know what you really fear.   What would hurt you more than anything else.
danica		You don't want to go back to being one of us --  -- do you?
danica		I'm going to bite you again, King.  And then I'm going to leave you here while you turn.  I'm going to watch you, day after day, while the Thirst keeps building and building.  And then, when you can't stand it anymore --
danica		-- I'm going to bring the little girl for you to feed on.  Would you like that, King?  Would you enjoy taking her life?
danica		Now we're getting somewhere, my pet.
blade		You alright?
abigail		 I'll be fine.
blade		Don't let it turn inward.
abigail		It already has.  Since I can remember I've had this knife of sadness in my heart.  As long as it stays there, I'm strong.  I'm untouchable.  But the moment I pull it out --  -- I'll die.
arigail		I'm ready to go.
caulder		My name is Caulder.  And I'll be your driver this evening.
blade		Where are you taking us?
caulder		Another safehouse.
abigail		We told you, Blade.  We operate in sleeper cells.  When one goes down, a new cell activates to pick up the slack.
caulder		Sommerfield left a video message for you.
sommerfield		 If you're watching this, I'm already dead. If Zoe's still alive, I want you to promise you'll take care of her.  I've been reading her The Oz books every night. We just started The Emerald City of Oz, the one with the Nome King --
sommerfield		I think I've managed to cultivate a workable strain of the Daystar virus.  As a precaution, I transmitted the genetic sequence to Caulder, in case our main stock was destroyed.  In order for it to achieve maximum lethality, you'll need to interfuse it with Drake's blood.  If it works, any vampires in the immediate vicinity should die almost instantly. After that, it should take only a few weeks for the virus to spread throughout the rest of the world.
sommerfield		There's one other thing, Blade.  You need to know that there's a chance the virus could destroy you too.  Because you're a hybrid, I'm not sure whether your immune system will be able tolerate it.  I'm sorry.  We didn't have enough time to properly test it.
caulder		Take a look at the plague arrow.
caulder		I only had time to fabricate a small batch of Daystar.  I outfitted it with a compressed gas projectile, so you should be able to fire it from one of the fourbarrel rifles or a bow.  Just make sure the shot counts, cause we don't have enough for a second try.
drake		Do you know who I am?
zoe		You're the Nome King.
drake		The Nome King.  I like that.  Tell me, child.  Do you want to die?
zoe		I'm not afraid -- I'll go to Heaven.
drake		There is no Heaven.  No God.  No angels. No happy ending for good little girls. The only thing you have to look forward to is nothingness.
drake		But what if you could change that?  What if you could remain a child forever?
drake		What if you could keep this little doll- like face of yours until the sun itself cooled to a cold, hard rock?  Wouldn't you like that?  Wouldn't you accept that gift?
zoe		My friends are coming to kill you.
king		-- gonna be sorry you did that --
asher		Nobody's coming for you, King.
king		Sure they are.  Left a trail of digital bread crumbs --
danica		Excuse me?
king		One thing you need to know about us Nightstalkers.  When you join our club, you get this nifty little tracking node surgically implanted in your body --
grimwood		Bullshit.
king		Scout's honor.  One of us gets lost, the others just dial up the satellite and presto, instant cavalry.
as her		He's bluffing.
danica		 Okay, King, where did they put this tracking node of yours?
king		It's in my left ass-cheek --
king		Alright.  alright, it's in my right ass- cheek --
king		No, seriously --  -- it's in the meat of my butt, right below my Bart Simpson tattoo --
king		-- pull down my tighty-whities -- see for yourself.
danica		ENOUGH!  It's not funny anymore!
king		No, it's not, you horse-humping bitch --  -- but it will be a few seconds from now.
danica		 And what happens then, lover?
king		Hammer time.  See, that tickle in your throat you're feeling right now?
king		That's atomized colloidal silver.
king		It's being pumped into the building's air conditioning system.
king		Which means that the fat lady should be singing right about --
king		-- NOW
abigail		You alright?
king		Nothing a hot tub full of Bactine won't fix.
abigail		Zoe --
king		Drake's got her.
abigail		Come on, hon.  Let's get you out of here.
king		 Fuck.  Me.  Sideways.
drake		Are you ready to die, Blade?
blade		Been ready since the day I was born, mother-fucker.
drake		 Then allow me to accommodate you.
king		 Bad dog.
danica		KING!!!
king		No offense, Danica --  -- but I've wanted to kill you since the moment we slept together.
danica		I was that bad, huh?
danica		No bullets in your gun, King.
king		Yeah, but here's the beauty --  -- these babies can be triggered remotely.
drake		Well done, hunter.  Well done.
drake		-- as I knew you would.  The humans are coming for you, you know.  In their eyes, you and I are the same. Allow me one last indulgence, then --  -- a parting gift --
abigail		 Blade!
abigail		BLADE!!!
blade's pov		We drop away from Abigail and King -- like we're falling down
king		Evening Lucius.
lucius		King, what the hell are you doing here?
king		Just a little sport hunting.
lucius		Ain't no vampires left, King.  So who do you have to hunt?
king		That's an interesting question, my friend. And I've got a question for you in return.
king		What do you get when you cross a vampire with a werewolf?
king		 A fur coat that sticks to your neck.
king		Don't you know fur is murder?
****Dialogues from script :Blast_from_the_Past.txt****

helen		For Pete's sake, Calvin!  We've got guests!
calvin		Sorry, honey!  I just got to fooling with this darn rheostat.
helen		Well, put it down and come in!
calvin		You bet, hon!
pilot		Tower. Wolf One. I've got a problem here.
pilot		Stand by. One.
betty		Just remember: don't mention the communists!
dave		Calvin's a great guy, but he's a little, you know...
betty		Nutty.
ruth		What's his wife like?
betty		Oh, you know, housewife.
dave		Likes to cook. Pregnant.
ruth		Normal, then.
betty		Well, I wouldn't go that far.  Helen!
helen		Hi, Betty!  Dave!
betty		Just look at you!
helen		Any day now!
betty		This is my sister and her husband.
helen		Oh, hi! Welcome!
calvin		So anyhow this duck says to the clerk, "I'd like to buy this lip balm."  And the clerk says, "Will that be cash or a check?"  And the duck says, "Just put it on my bill!"
dave		He was the golden-boy professor at Cal Tech.  But then he starts inventing things.
bob		What kind of things?
dave		You got me.  Some kind of special synthetic rubber.  And some kind of automated machine.  Anyhow, suddenly he gets rich.  I mean rich!  And quits teaching.
calvin		How's that?
guest		Just what the doctor ordered!
betty		With all his money they could have moved to Beverly Hills, but they decided to stay in the Valley.  Calvin spends all his time tinkering out there in his workshop.  If you ask me it's all very strange.
calvin		There currently exists a type of neon light that lasts five years.  But you won't see it on the market. Same is true of batteries. I could take your simple yacht battery and rig it to last a decade, easily.
harold		Well, what the heck kind of a marketing system can't get great new products like that out to the public?
calvin		 A veeeery good one, Harold. Free market capitalism may not be a perfect order, but it's the best we've got, or will ever have.  And why?  Three reasons!
helen		 Oh, please don't bring that up!
calvin		I'd say my baseball card collection is as complete as any one I've ever seen.
ron		Calvin!  Hey, Calvin!  Kennedy's going toe-to-toe with Khrushchev on the television!
jfk		...this sudden, clandestine decision to station strategic weapons for the first time outside of Soviet soil, is a deliberately provocative and unjustified change in the status quo which cannot be accepted by this country.
tower		Wolf One -- say intentions.
pilot		I've got secondaries of an engine fire and I'll need to find a clear area to eject.
tower		Roger, Wolf One. Can you make it to the ocean?
jfk		...we will not prematurely or unnecessarily risk the cost of worldwide nuclear war, in which even the fruits of victory would be ashes in our mouth.  But neither will we shrink from the risk at any time it must be faced.
calvin		I'm sorry everyone, but given this extraordinary turn of events, I think it's prudent that we cut the evening short. I'm sure this Cuban thing will resolve itself, but in the meantime...I'd suggest taking a prayerful watch-and-wait stance!
helen		We'll do this again! Maybe next week. Here's your hat. Could I wrap something up for you? Did you have a coat?
dave		 What'd I tell ya?!
calvin		It's time.
helen		 Time? Oh, no Calvin. It's not time yet. I still have--
calvin		On the contrary, I think we're the only ones who are.
helen		Well, I'm certainly not going to let the pot roast go to waste. Could you just put that seat cover back on that lawn chair?
calvin		It shuts off automatically.
helen		Did you rig it to do that? You're so clever.
calvin		No.  They all do.
helen		I never know anymore.
calvin		I bet that's a fighter jet on his way to Key West!  Good luck, amigo!
tower		An emergency has been declared. I repeat, an emergency has been declared.
calvin		You hear that?!
helen		Yes.
calvin		We can listen to the rest downstairs!
helen		Calvin, I wish you would have at least let me do the dishes. It's not going to be that easy getting all that dried- on food off my nice plates.
calvin		I just hope those plates aren't radioactive by tomorrow morning.
helen		Cheese is particularly troublesome.
calvin		Worse than your Kraft Holiday dip?
helen		Oh, much worse. But not as bad as that Mexican Jumping Bean dip. You remember that?
calvin		Yeah, yeah. Okay.  Give me the roast and watch your step.  I'll come back for the radio.
pilot		Tower, say again!!
tower		The SAR HELO is airborne with you in sight.
pilot		I'm marking the 180 radial for five and ejecting.
tower		Roger, Wolf One.
helen		How long will we have to stay down here?
calvin		I don't know. For this thing to blow over, it could take days.
helen		Days??
calvin		Rather safe than sorry. That's my motto!
helen		But, what if I go into labor? That could happen any time.
calvin		I've read up on it. I'll deliver the baby myself if I have to.
helen		Now you listen to me Calvin Webber, when this baby comes, you're going to be out in the waiting room smoking yourself to death with all the other fathers.
calvin		 Yes, dear!
helen		As long as we've got that straight.
calvin		 Home sweet home!
helen		To you maybe.
helen		What was that?!
calvin		Are you all right?!
helen		Yes, I think so.
calvin		Oh, no!  It's happened!  Look at that heat!!  All my surface indicators are knocked out!  Oh, my Lord...it's actually happened!!
helen		What's that noise?
calvin		The locks.
helen		The locks?
calvin		To keep us from trying to leave. After an atomic blast there's a radiation half-life that lasts thirty five years.
helen		Thirty -five years!
calvin		Then after that it's safe.
helen		It's safe.
calvin		To go up.
helen		To go up.
calvin		 Hey, honey. Don't you worry. We're going to be just fine.
levy		According to Caltech, this Webber guy was a bonafide genius and a borderline nutcase.
atkinson		Well, he and Mrs. Nutcase must have been out here when the plane hit.
levy		Unless we get a postcard or somethin', that's my guess.
atkinson		What about relatives?
levy		All back East.
atkinson		The neighbors over there said the guy spent day and night out here. She'd bring him sandwiches and hot Dr. Pepper.
levy		He drank it hot?
atkinson		Yeah.
levy		Good god.
atkinson		Yeah.
calvin		Hi, honey! Feeling better?
helen		No.
calvin		We have to be strong, sweetheart. If not for ourselves, for the child.
helen		All our friends...
calvin		Burnt to a crisp.  I've given you the most well-done cut.
helen		I'm not hungry.
calvin		Hot Dr. Pepper! Your favorite!
helen		 No, Calvin, you're favorite.
calvin		Really?
calvin		A bit chilly? Shouldn't be. Temperature's a nice 73 degrees.
helen		Maybe I've just got the creeps.
calvin		How could you?! This is just like home!
helen		No. No! Calvin, this is different! Believe me!
calvin		Would you like a tranquilizer?
helen		You have tranquilizers?
calvin		I told you! I've got everything!
helen		Oh, no.
calvin		What?
helen		Uh, oh. Now it's time.
calvin		Honey?
calvin		Is there a problem?
helen		No, Calvin.  Babies cry.
calvin		I've noticed.
helen		What shall we call him?
calvin		No.  I think it's just right.
helen		And I was wondering...if...if I could have a...
calvin		Yes!
helen		If I...you know...
calvin		What? Whatever you want, Helen!
helen		I want a bedroom ceiling.
calvin		You've got it!
calvin		Right here!
helen		 We looked all over for you. What are you doing back here?
calvin		Oh, I was just examining this rear hatchway.
helen		Why?
calvin		No reason.  Well, it's pretty clear that the front entrance caved in when the bomb went off. So, you know, when the time is up, we'll have to return to the surface using, you know, this back entrance.  Which is very nice because it has the service elevator!
helen		Very nice. Unless it caved in, too.
calvin		Yes.  Well... yes.
helen		Watch this!
calvin		What?
helen		Go to Daddy, Adam. Go to Daddy.
boss		Damn if I know.
boss		Well, don't fool with it. If it is a septic tank, I sure as hell don't want to open it. We'll just lay the foundation over it.
realtor		...and since it's almost certain that the Webbers were killed, the bank is selling the house and that back parcel over there that's been re-zoned commercial. It's right there on the avenue.
woman buyer		Is that where the plane crashed?
realtor		Yep, right there.
man buyer		This place gives me the willies.
realtor		Yeah, I know what you mean. But the price is right.
adam		Al ice in won der lan.
calvin		Not bad for a three and a half year old! I'd like to see the public school system match that! I don't care how terrific it is!
helen		Yes, he's very bright, dear. Much like his father. But you know, Calvin, maybe he's a little...young for school.
calvin		Nonsense. People have no idea what the human mind is capable of. Look at us!
adam		 Look, Daddy. Alice went down a hole, just like us.
calvin		Yes, you certainly will. And you'll find a nice girl and rebuild America. Just the way it used to be.
helen		Oh, Calvin, I'm not sure we should be making promises that perhaps can't be kept.
calvin		I believe there will be other survivors. In fact, I'm guessing there's life on the surface, even now. It's not life worth living perhaps, but believe me, something's moving around up there. And I don't just mean the cockroaches.
mom		I'm going to need two more banana- splits and a cherry coke!
soda jerk		You bet, Mom! Coming up!
calvin		 Nothing in the world is more fun than learning new things.
mom		I can't tell the boys from the girls anymore!
soda jerk		 Uh...yeah. It's like hard.
helen		Boys! Excuse me, but I believe it's my turn.  Adam?
mom		I miss those nice flower-power kids. How 'bout you?
soda jerk		 Um...uh...
mom		What the hell kind of music is that?!
soda jerk		Oh, man. I'm like not sure I like that.
calvin		This is what money looks like.  It comes like this, in coin, or like this in paper.  Or you can have an "investment."  These are stock "certificates" that we bought in your name.  Of course, they're worthless now, but at one time they were quite valuable.
adam		They're pretty.  Can I have them?
calvin		Sure. Now, let's move on to our French exam.
adam		Latin exam, Dad.  It's Tuesday.
calvin		You're right!  It's Tuesday already! By gosh, time flies, doesn't it?!
adam		Tempus fugit!
calvin		En arte voluptus. Que les bons temps roul!
adam		Gerade aus dann links!
calvin		Sorgen sie bitte dafur das die gepack sorgfaltic behandeldt warren!
adam		Haben sie etuas nettes in leder?!
calvin		 You know, you have a wonderful sense of humor, son!  I must say, the acorn doesn't fall very far from the tree. By the way, it's time I gave you something. Come with me.
calvin		Hi, honey!
helen		Hi.
adam		These are wonderful.
calvin		It's my entire baseball collection. It's yours now.
adam		What's baseball?
calvin		It's a game, son. I can explain it pretty easily. There's a pitcher.
adam		Like a painting?
calvin		 No, son. A pitcher.
adam		Like one of Mom's?
calvin		Uh, no. There's a man who throws the ball -- to a man who has a bat.
adam		The nocturnal flying mammal?
calvin		 No. Sit down.
mom		I'm selling this place.  I want out of this hell hole!
soda jerk		Could I, like...oh, wow...like,uh...
mom		Buy it from me?
soda jerk		Yeah!  Yeah, that's it!
mom		I'll give it to ya, no money down. The neighborhood has gone to hell anyway.
soda jerk		Cool.
helen		Calvin!
helen		Get the presents and do the lights.
calvin		You bet.
adam		Thank you, Mom! Thanks, Dad!
calvin		Blow out the candles!
helen		Make a wish!
adam		Oh, boy! A jacket!
calvin		Your mom made that all by herself.
adam		No kidding!
helen		No kidding.  Who else would have done it?
calvin		And I made these!
adam		Holy Cow! What the heck are these?!
calvin		Your roller-skates! I redesigned them! I think this new design will work even better!
adam		These are really swell! I mean swell!
helen		What did you wish for, Adam?
calvin		If he tells, it won't come true!
helen		Oh, that's just a bunch of baloney! We never believed that in my family!
calvin		Well, we did in my family!
adam		I wished I could meet a girl.
helen		Oh. A nice one, I hope.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
calvin		One who doesn't glow in the dark.
helen		Calvin Webber! What a thing to say!
calvin		Well, we'll be going up in two years. We'll know then. I'm very hopeful.
adam		 Me, too.
helen		Let's eat our cake.
calvin		Yeah. Let's dig in!
helen		Elbows, Son.
adam		Sorry, Mom!
helen		You never know. You may someday dine at the White House with the president.
calvin		If we still have one.
helen		Yes...
calvin		You know, when we do go up...I'm going to miss this old place. How 'bout you, hon?
helen		 Would you excuse me?
calvin		Sure.
calvin		In the generator room again?
helen		Oh, yes.  It just fascinates me how all    these things work.
calvin		I know exactly what you mean!  Hey, honey?
adam		So...we just open this door and go up?
adam		Um...is that supposed to happen?
adam		Hey, where are we going?!  Is everything all right?!
calvin		Should we say a little prayer first?
helen		Just open the door.
adam		Well, do we just go on up?!
calvin		 No, son! We wait for night.  Now...is precisely when... we must be at our... most cautious.
helen		 Oh, shit.
calvin		Helen-Thomas-Webber!  Maybe we have been down here a little too long!  Please excuse her French.
adam		Shit is a French word?
helen		Yes, yes it is!
calvin		It's an archaic colloquialism, roughly meaning..."good".
helen		Yes! That's right!
adam		Oh.  Well...then...shit!
calvin		C'est bon, Monsieur.
adam		Merci!
soda jerk		...all of these things...Alcoholics Anonymous...Cocaine Anonymous...Heroin Anonymous.
other bum		There's a Heroin Anonymous?
soda jerk		Shut up! All of these things... ask you to believe in a power greater than yourself! Some sort of God on High! Well...I have lifted my eyes skyward a time or two... and I have certainly not seen anything coming from up there except a goddamn airplane -- that I can't afford to get on!
other bum		Earthquake!  Another earthquake!
soda jerk		Let her come!  Let's get this over with!  And please, if there is a God, let it be worse in Bel Air!!
soda jerk		Oh, God!  Oh, God!!  Oh,God, save me!! For I have seen the light!!
calvin		I come in peace!!
calvin		My, gosh...
calvin		Where is my backyard?
street walker		You got a light, honey?
calvin		What?!  A light!  Yes, I've got a light!
street walker		Good.
calvin		So...you...survived the blast, did you?
street walker		The blast?  Honey, I have survived a host of things. Like the song says: "A country boy can survive!"
calvin		Yes, yes, the song.  So tell me...has it been...hell up here?
street walker		"Hell up here?"  Honey, it's been hell up here, down there and over yonder! Hell everywhere.
calvin		Yes, I can tell that just looking around.  "Boy?"  Did you say you were a "country boy?"
street walker		Cute Little Old Man, if you want a boy, I can be a boy.  And if you want a girl, I can be a girl.  I can be anything you want me to be!
calvin		Really?
street walker		Uh-huh. And it's all yours for the remarkably low price of only $200! And if you act now, I might even throw in some free lawn furniture.
calvin		 No, I can't.  I'm sorry!  I have to go!  I have to...
calvin		Hello!  How are you this evening?! Mind if I, you know, browse around?!
calvin		Thank-Q very much!
calvin		I'm going to give it to you straight. There's no point in beating around the bush. There were survivors. Apparently, the fallout has created....a subspecies of mutants.
helen		Mutants?!
calvin		It's not a pretty sight. Some eat out of garbage cans.  Others are...cover your ears, Son, and hum.  I mean that literally and I mean right now!
calvin		Others are...multi-sexual.  It seems...they can be both masculine and feminine...simultaneously.
helen		No.
calvin		Yes.
helen		I don't believe it!
calvin		Believe it. He tried to sell me his body, Helen.  They offer lawn furniture as a come on!
calvin		They've done a lot of re-building but society, at least as we knew it, has utterly collapsed. People throw up in the streets. Others point guns. There's something terribly wrong with the automobiles and...and I...I can't tell you the rest.  I just can't.
helen		Oh my. Oh,my, oh my, oh, my. So, what do we do now?
calvin		We stay down here.
helen		We do?
calvin		Yes.
helen		Excuse me.
helen		For how long?  We've just about run out of everything!
calvin		We'll make do.  I'm of the opinion that these mutants will eventually kill each other off and then--
helen		 No, Calvin.  We're not going to make do.  Not me!  Not Adam.  We're going up no matter what!  We deserve it. Even if it's terrible!
calvin		Well, I am the head of this household--
helen		I want him to at least see the sky!
calvin		--and we will--
helen		And the ocean!  A mountain range!
calvin		--do as I say!
adam		Dad!
helen		Oh, no! Oh, my goodness!   Let's get him into the bedroom.
helen		He seems to be doing all right now.  I don't know if he's had a heart attack or just... a horrifying experience. But we  need supplies and I've got to stay with him.
adam		I'll go up.
helen		I'm afraid you've got to.
adam		I'll be all right.
helen		 You're my brave boy.
helen		Just act normal.  If anybody asks, simply say you're from out-of-town, and that you're in town on business. Write that down.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
helen		I don't know how far you'll have to travel to find supplies, but if you can't get home by nightfall, I want you to look for something called a Holiday Inn. Write that down. It's a hotel. There might still be one standing.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
helen		Let's get you packed.
adam		Right.
helen		 I just hope this is still good up there.
adam		Mom?
helen		Yes?
adam		I was thinking that, uh...you know, while I was up there and all...that maybe I could, you know...try to meet a girl.  I've, been thinking about that a little...just these last...fifteen years or so.
helen		Oh, Adam,that would be wonderful if you could find a girl. One who's not a mutant...and hopefully comes from Pasadena. Nothing against Valley girls, but in my day anyhow, the girls from Pasadena, I don't know...always just seemed a little nicer.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
helen		Oh, there's also a thing called a liquor store. Write that down.
helen		Here's the shopping list and $3,000 which should take care of everything.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
helen		Your father has a few final words for you. You know, he'd fight a buzz saw for you - he loves you so much. We both do.
adam		Heck, I know that mom! You're my parents.
calvin		Adam...don't forget...don't forget ...
adam		Yes, father?! Yes?
calvin		...the pipe tobacco.
adam		Yes, sir.  Is that all?
calvin		Also...stay out of the "Adult Bookstore."
adam		Adult Bookstore.  Why?
calvin		Poison gas. Invisible. Don't forget.
adam		I promise. Is that all?
calvin		One more thing. If you find a healthy young woman, bring her back with you.
adam		I'll try.
adam		Are you all right?
soda jerk		Yes!  Yes!  Oh, Lord!  Yes, oh, yes! But  where is the one who came last night -- all in yellow?!
adam		All in yellow?  Oh!  That was my father!
soda jerk		Ooooohhhh!!  Of course! The father! Forgive me!!  Can you forgive me for my wasted life?!  Everything has been so awful!!
adam		 I know it has been terrible.  But it wasn't your fault. And now all the decay is over with and things are going to get better. You understand?
soda jerk		Yes.
adam		I've got to go, now.
soda jerk		Of course you do.  I'll stay here and pray.
adam		 That's always a good idea! Would you like some money? I have a great deal of it.
soda jerk		No. I don't need money anymore -- I see that now.
adam		How do I leave here?
soda jerk		The front door is open.  Will you be back?
adam		I promise.
adam		The sky!!!
adam		 Up there!!
adam		Just look!!
woman		What is it!
mother		What?
child		I see it, mommy!
woman		What is it?
adam		I have never in my life seen anything like this!!!! Nothing even comes close!!
postal worker		Whatcha looking at?
adam		Oh, my holy stars! A Negro!
postal worker		 Say what?!
adam		 How do you do, ma'am.
postal worker		 I do alright.
adam		Good!
pakistani		What is it?!  What do you see?!
adam		Oh, no!
pakistani		What?!
adam		Poisonous gas!!  Run for your life, it's invisible poisonous gas!!!
calvin		You know--
helen		 Thank you, Calvin. Thank you very much.
calvin		He's smart.
helen		Yes, dear, I know.
adam		Hello! Hi. Good afternoon! Howdy.
adam		I tried to give the driver this but he wouldn't take it. He seems angry. A lot of people do.
psycho		 There's a grocery store coming up.
adam		Thank-Q!  Do you think I should get a gun?
psycho		I don't know...maybe.
adam		 Driver! Please stop, sir!
adam		I'm sorry, what did you call me?
adam		Thank you, driver! Good-bye, everyone!
adam		Is that a birthday cake?!
clerk		Yes, it is.
adam		Gee-ma-nee!
clerk		Bakersfield.
adam		 My first mutants.
adam		Is this because of the radiation?
clerk		What?
adam		Nothing.
butcher		Help you?
adam		Yes, please.  I'm looking for all beef patties.
butcher		Fresh or frozen?
adam		Come on. Frozen. How much are they?
butcher		Frozen, they're six-thirty a dozen in the three pound box.
adam		Then I'll need, twelve into nine hundred, seventy-five boxes. And that's almost...five hundred dollars just for the hamburger! And my Mom only gave me three thousand dollars for everything! The yacht batteries! The diesel oil! The birthday candles!
butcher		You could have a meat order that big delivered to your home.
butcher		Sure.
adam		Well, that's great then! Terrific...except...it just occurred to me. I don't know where I live! I'm lost! I don't know where home is!  Would you excuse me?
butcher		Gladly.
adam		Driver! Stop this bus immediately! Please sir!!
adam		Oh my. Oh, my goodness gracious! Oh, my...Oh. That is so great!! Man alive!
adam		Hello.
jerry		 Hi.
adam		The name is Adam Webber and I see you buy baseball cards and although these are a lot older than the ones in the window, I was hoping you still might be interested.
jerry		How--how much do you want for the Mickey Mantle, rookie season?
adam		I was thinking of selling all the cards.
jerry		Really? No kidding?
adam		See, my problem is, all I have are hundred dollar bills and I need something smaller.  Ones, fives, tens. Like that.
jerry		I see what ya mean. Tell you what...I'll give you five hundred dollars in small bills for the whole box.
adam		Oh, that would be wonderful!
jerry		Well, we're here to help!
jerry		I'm workin' here, Evey-poo.  Don't screw me up.
adam		Bon soir, mademoiselle!
eve		Are you French?
adam		No.  I'm here on business.
eve		Well, your business must not be sports memorabilia, because this one Mantle card right here--  --is worth six thousand dollars all by its little self.
adam		Get out of here!
eve		No, you get out of here.
jerry		Terrific...you're fired! You know that?!
eve		No, ferry--excuse me, Jerry, I quit.
jerry		Oh, no! I fired ya! Just like the hair salon guy and the Chevy dealer!  You know why you can't keep a goddamn job?!  Because you can't keep your goddamn mouth shut!  That's why!
adam		Sir? I would really appreciate it if you wouldn't take the Lord's name in vain again.
jerry		 Oh, you got a problem with that?
adam		I have a big problem with that.  Eve sees a fist fight coming. She takes Adam by the arm.
eve		Come on, Heathcliff, I'll walk you to the corner.
adam		Yes, ma'am.  But my name is Adam.
eve		Just come on.
jerry		Hah!  Adam and Eve!  The perfect match!  I hope you two will be very happy together!  Mazel-fuckin'-tov! Don't try coming back, Ms. Big Shot! I'm serious this time! You're finished in the hobby business! Take that to the bank, why don'tcha!
adam		I didn't want to leave without saying how much I admire your jewelry.
jerry		Hey, smart ass, how 'bout I kick your butt?
adam		How 'bout you what?
eve		I said come on!
adam		Where are we going?
eve		We? I'm going home. And, judging by that coat, I'd say you have to get back to the barber college.
adam		No, I'm lost.
eve		You're lost?
adam		Say,...did you just lose your job because of me?
eve		Forget it.  I'm sick of working for that dickhead.
adam		Dickhead?
eve		A walking penis capable of intelligent speech.  A dickhead.
eve		What's wrong with you?
adam		I just had a mental picture of...
eve		Here, pick these up!
adam		I came on a bus.
eve		Why doesn't that surprise me?
adam		I don't know. Why doesn't it?
eve		Well, I guess because I'm a little psychic...I have this thing.
adam		Oh, that's nice.
eve		Let me guess something. This is your first visit to La La Land. You're staying somewhere over in Hollywood because, like an idiot, you thought that would be an exciting place to stay.  Right so far?
adam		 So far?
eve		Yes, I'm right?
adam		Right.
eve		I knew it! So anyhow, you get on a bus and before you know it, you're out here in the San Fernando Valley without a clue.  Which brings us to here.  Correct again?
adam		Again.
eve		Where are you staying? The Holiday Inn?
adam		Yes! Yes! The Holiday Inn! That's exactly right!
eve		See? I'm psychic. Not completely, but pretty much. That was pretty good, wasn't it?!
adam		It was amazing.
eve		Yeah. Thanks. Anyhow, let me predict a bus for you to get on.
adam		Do you own a car?
eve		I'm not taking you there, Sweetie. Rule Number One in North America: No strangers in the car.
adam		If it will make you feel any better, I don't have a gun.
eve		You don't?
adam		Nope.
eve		Well, that changes everything. Get the fuck away from me!!  I mean it!!
adam		I'm sorry!  I said something wrong, didn't I!  Please forgive me!
eve		Get away from me!!
adam		Wait! Please wait!  I'll make a deal with you!  I'll give you a Rogers Hornsby, if you'll take me to the hotel!
eve		Rogers Hornsby?!?
adam		He's all yours. I was holding him back.
eve		Rogers Hornsby's worth like four thousand dollars!
adam		So what?!  I've got two of him!  And this many DiMaggios and Robinsons. I was holding these out, too.
eve		So for four thousand dollars, all I have to do is drive you to your hotel?
adam		Yes.
eve		And that's it?
adam		Yes.
eve		I don't have to take a physical in your space ship?
adam		Heck, no!  What?!
eve		Okay.  What the hell?  You got a deal. Get in.
eve		So...Mister Andretti, your first time on the freeway?
adam		It's Webber.  Adam Webber.
eve		Mind if I change the station? Better traffic reports on AM.
adam		Wait!  Wait!
eve		What is it?!
adam		It's Perry!
eve		Perry?
adam		Perry Como!  You had him!  Go back! Go back!
eve		Okay, okay!  Take it easy!
eve		How's that?
adam		 Oh, I could die...
eve		Over this?
adam		Yeah! Listen to this part. This is where it really takes off!
eve		You are one scary son-of-a-gun.
adam		Hey, what are you doing?!
eve		I know a short-cut.
adam		Gee-zooie!!  You better slow down!!!
eve		I can't help it. Perry Como always does this to me! I just get so cranked!
eve		Card, please.  End of service.
adam		That was...wonderful!  I've never felt anything like that in my life.
eve		Yeah, same here. Don't forget your suitcase.
adam		Right.
adam		You know--
adam		Good evening. I want to stay at this hotel.
clerk		Fill this out please. And I'll need a card.
adam		A card?
clerk		Yes, sir.
adam		Of course!
bellboy		Bathroom's there, TV's over there. Remote's on top. Room Service menu is on the table.
adam		 Of what?
bellboy		 The hotel.
adam		 I see.  Well, thank you very much. You've been very, very nice.
bellboy		Thank you. Your father is a smart guy.
adam		My father is a genius.
bellboy		No kiddin'. Well...good night.
adam		Good night!  Sleep tight.  Don't let the bedbugs bite!  That's what my Mom always says...  ...who I'm really beginning to miss. I'm sorry.  It's my first night away from home.
bellboy		How old are you?
adam		Thirty-five.
bellboy		You don't look thirty-five.
adam		How old do I look?
bellboy		Twenty-five? Around there.
adam		I guess living up here makes people look older.
bellboy		Up here on the fifteenth floor?
adam		 Yes. Up here on the fifteenth floor. Goodnight.
bellboy		Goodnight.
calvin		And Lord we ask finally that you send an angel to look after and protect our beloved son, Adam.  Amen.
helen		Amen.
eve		 What in the hell am I doing here?! That's what I'd like to know! Somebody tell me that.
desk clerk		You don't have a last name?
eve		All I know is that his first name is Adam.  No!  Adam Webber!  That's it.
adam		 Yes?
eve		 Hi. This is the woman from the baseball card store.  Remember me?
adam		Yes!  Hello!  Hi!  Hot-diggity-dog! Thank you for calling me on the telephone!!
eve		Good grief. Hey listen, I'm in the lobby.  On the first floor! Where the hell else would it be?
adam		I am so glad to see you!!  I thought I'd never see you again!
eve		Okay, down boy.  I can't take this for driving you home. I wish I could, but I can't. So here, take it back. I could have just left it for you at the desk, but it's very valuable. Now take it.
adam		I can't, it's yours.
eve		Take it. damn it!
adam		 Okay.
eve		Why are you doing that?
adam		I haven't brushed yet.
eve		Oh. Okay. Well, so long. Enjoy your visit.
adam		Wait, Eve, please!  Wait.
eve		Please don't follow me.  Don't do it!
eve		I knew this would happen!  You're like a lost puppy!
adam		Can't you please just talk to me for one second?
eve		Okay!  Damn!
adam		Troy? Is he your husband? Or a boyfriend?
eve		No.
adam		 Thank-Q!
eve		Oh, stop that!  God! Listen, I know you like me.  I can tell. But you know what? A lot of guys like me.  Not me, exactly. It's more like the legs or the butt or the hair.  Or some combination of the above.
adam		I think it's the eyes.
eve		The eyes.  Okay. An eye-man.  Anyhow, it never works out.  Okay?  Not that you even need to know that!  You look like crap, by the way.  What have you been doing?
adam		Watching television in color.
eve		Hey, no kidding?  In color?
adam		Cross my heart and hope to die.
eve		See, ya.
adam		Why doesn't it never work out?
eve		What?
adam		Why does it never work out?  You and...men?
eve		Why?!  Who the hell knows?!
adam		...Okay.
eve		It never works out because I'm into legs and butts and hair myself! That's why! So I wind up with guys who are very good looking, but even more shallow than I am, if you can picture that. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to go find another low-paying, demeaning job where some guy named Jerry keeps telling me how lousy his marriage is.
adam		Why not go to work for me?
eve		Doing what?
adam		Selling all my baseball cards. And helping me buy enough food and supplies to fill several large trucks.
eve		Food and supplies?  Who for?  Like starving people?
adam		Well, they're not starving yet, but they need help.
eve		How long would you need me?
adam		Two weeks.
eve		What's the pay?
adam		What's fair?
eve		I've got to make at least a thousand a week.
adam		You got it! Wait here while I change.
eve		Sure.
eve		 My career's finally taking off...
manager		Why would someone need twenty yacht batteries?
eve		I just work for the guy.
manager		And who does he work for?  The CIA?
eve		Naw...it's some sort of charity thing..I guess for starving people with yachts.
eve		Why not buy them milk or something-- instead of Dr. Pepper?
adam		They like Dr. Pepper.
eve		Who are these people?
adam		My Mom and Dad.
eve		Very funny, smart ass.
adam		Hey!  Pipe tobacco!  I'm going to need all of this! This is swell!
eve		 Swell? Run, Eve.  Run.
adam		Wait! Wait!
eve		What?
eve		Well, another day, another dollar.  Stop staring at me!!
adam		Sorry.
eve		Pick you up at eight tomorrow morning.
adam		Hey, you know. I was thinking...
eve		Night!
adam		Night!
adam		We'll have to rent a refrigerated truck for the beef and poultry.
eve		It's your life.  And, by the way, it's a dandy.
adam		I guess we'll need another locker.
eve		No problem.  We'll just sell another baseball card.
adam		You know, Eve -- don't get mad, okay? - -  but, I'd just be lost without you.
eve		Thank you.
adam		And, um ...I guess... I guess you and I, uh...
eve		Adam?  Don't even think about it. Okay? I'm sorry.  I know that sounds mean, but believe me, it would be meaner if I didn't say it. Okay?
adam		Okay.
eve		Now, let's take the truck back and get something to eat.
adam		There's something else I would like you to help me with.
eve		Name it.
adam		Well, this is going to sound a little crazy.
eve		 Oh, I'm sure it will!
adam		Then forget it.
eve		No, no!  I'm sorry!  What is it?
adam		This is for me.
eve		Think of me as your genie.  Just ask.
adam		Well... Okay. I would like you to help me find a...wife.
eve		A wife?
adam		Yes.
eve		What for?
adam		Because I want to get married.
eve		Why?!
adam		I don't want to be alone.
eve		You can be single and not alone. Marriage bites!
adam		Bites what?
eve		The big one!
adam		It does?
eve		Sure.
adam		I didn't know that.
eve		Everybody knows that. Ask my divorced sisters. Or ask my divorced mom and dad.
adam		They're all divorced?
eve		Everybody's divorced.
adam		It didn't used to be that way.
eve		I wouldn't know.  What kind of wife are you looking for?
adam		One who's not a mutant.
eve		No dogs, huh? Okay.
adam		And if possible, I'd like to marry someone from Pasadena.
eve		When do you need her by?
adam		Two weeks.
eve		Well, I could probably get you laid in two weeks, but to locate a non-mutant wife from Pasadena...that could take some time.
adam		That's what I was afraid of.
adam		What do you mean, you can get me laid?
eve		Could we talk about that a little later?
adam		Of course.
eve		 Thank you.
eve		Get out!
adam		The engine is still running.
eve		Now, get out!!
adam		Yes, ma'am!
eve		Stop that ma'am crap!
adam		Sorry!
eve		You almost got us killed!
adam		I told you I've never driven before!
eve		Never drive again!
adam		You said it would be easy!
eve		I was wrong!!
adam		Is this your house?
eve		Yes!
adam		I like it.
eve		Swell!
cliff		What are you bitching about now?
eve		What are you doing here?
cliff		I forgot some of my stuff.
eve		Your stuff?  Let me see that.
eve		You came back for these?
cliff		Hey, they're Ralph Laurens.  And who's this interesting looking fellow?
eve		This is Adam.  Adam, meet Cliff.
adam		 How do you do?
cliff		I do fine, Adam.  How 'bout yourself?  You doin' any good?
eve		Go home, Cliff, wherever that might be.
cliff		Shana Gillroy's apartment.  Remember her?  The model who went to Harvard? Well, I better get going!  Bye, Adam. Nice coat!
adam		Why, thank you!  Very nice to have met you, Cliff!  May I ask you a question?
eve		He's a former boyfriend. We lived together for about six months.  And yes, I'll admit it.  I've still kind of got a thing for him.  That's what you wanted to know, isn't it?
adam		 Actually,no. I was wondering why Cliff likes to wear another man's underpants.
eve		 What?!
troy		 Eve!  This guy is un-be-liev-able!
eve		I knew you'd like him.
troy		Darlin', this is X-File stuff!  Think about it!  The guy's got all this easily negotiable property. He's obviously setting something up very big.  Like a self-sustaining island off the coast of South America, for instance. Or perhaps he's the head of a cult that's doing weird things with poultry and pipe tobacco. I've heard worse.
adam		You have very nice ceilings.
troy		I do? Well, thank you! You like ceilings?
adam		Not particularly.
troy		Well, I hope you like these! Fresh sea urchin wrapped in seaweed. Or "nori" if you prefer. I love sushi.
adam		I love Lucy!
troy		You nut!
eve		Here you go.  One champagne cocktail.
adam		Thank-Q!
eve		I thought only hookers drank those things.
adam		Well, I know Mom sure likes 'em!
troy		Dinner in fifteen minutes. Why don't we sit and chat.
troy		So, Adam...where on earth are you from?
eve		Out-of-town.  That's all he'll say.
adam		It's a very small place. People don't even know it's there.
troy		And it's called...?
adam		Maybe Eve can guess.  She's psychic.
troy		Really?  Since when?
eve		 Since that guy rear-ended me in Palm Springs.
troy		Oh, yes.
eve		I even guessed his hotel, didn't I?
adam		Right on the button.
troy		Well, Dionne Warwick, guess his home town.
eve		Give me your hand.
troy		 Oh, my God...
eve		Okay, let's see...I'm not promising anything. You okay?
adam		Um-hum.
eve		I'm seeing...snow... lots of snow. Way up North.  Are we getting hot?
adam		Yes!
eve		You live in...Alaska.  The only way in or out of your place is by plane and... you've definitely come down here for food and supplies and... to find a wife!
adam		Wow.
troy		That's right?
adam		 I've never met anyone like you in my life.
troy		She's right?!
eve		Hey, butthead, I'm clairvoyant.
adam		I've got goose-bumps all over me.
troy		Why not just go to... Nome for supplies and a wife?  Isn't that closer?
eve		Yeah, right!  That's where you'd go to find girls!  Nome.  He's gay, by the way.
adam		Good for you.
troy		Well, we try. Listen, let me just ask you a few questions.  When did Alaska become a state?
troy		Who use to own it?
adam		Russia.
troy		When did we get it from them?
adam		1867.  Seward's Folly. We paid 7.2 million dollars for it. A tidy sum then, as well as now. I'm quoting my father, of course.
troy		What's the capitol?
adam		Juneau.
troy		Hello! It's Anchorage!  Gotcha!
adam		Sorry, that's the largest city.
adam		Where's he gone?
eve		He's gone to check your answers on his computer.
adam		He has a computer?
eve		Sure.
adam		In the house?
eve		No.  We keep it in the backyard.  Of course, in the house.  It's in there.
adam		May I please be excused?
eve		Uh...yeah.
adam		This must be very new.
troy		Yeah.
adam		It's so small.
troy		What are you talking about? This is the new Mac. You a hacker?
adam		I don't think so.
troy		You don't have a computer in your cabin?
adam		No.
troy		How do you get through those winters?  What's the highest peak?
adam		Mt. McKinley.  It's also the highest point in North America.
troy		 Okay, maybe she is psychic.  Let's go eat!
adam		 That would knock my father out.
troy		Yeah?
adam		Oh, yes.  It would probably kill him.
troy		He's a Windows guy then, huh?
adam		Yes. He likes windows.
troy		Well, I think Windows stink. What do you think of that?
adam		...I guess it's...just a matter of personal taste.
troy		True.
soda jerk		Who are you?!
helen		 I'm the mother.
soda jerk		It's the mother!!
troy		But first, you have to start with the clothes!
eve		Exactly.  You understand that, don't you?  You have no chance of meeting a woman dressed like that.
adam		All right.
eve		 So, what are you seeing?
troy		 I don't know.
eve		Money is no object.  He's got cards up the wazoo.
adam		The what?
eve		Wazoo!  Try to listen.  Whataya think? Surfer, grunge, hip- hop, Euro trash?
troy		You're serious, aren't you?
eve		What's that supposed to mean?
troy		It means that your taste in men's apparel is as bad as your taste in men.
eve		Well, that's blunt!
troy		I'm sorry. But if the shoe fits.
eve		And I suppose you see him in some sort of strapless  thing, don't you?
troy		I see "elegant."
eve		Yeah? Like Ralph Lauren?
troy		That's what I'm sensing.
adam		The guy with the underpants!
eve		That's boring!
troy		 Not on him.
adam		I'm not wearing his pants.
troy		Why not? He has great pants.
adam		I just don't want to.
troy		Okay.
troy		Alright, I will.
eve		 I'm busy tomorrow anyway. I have to buy six thousand paper napkins.
troy		What do you think, Adam?
adam		About clothing?
eve		Yeah.
adam		Whatever you two want. If you've got the time, I've got the wazoo.
troy		Isn't it a little tiring to sit up straight like that?
adam		No.
eve		What about holding your right arm up like that all the time?
adam		It's fine. Just give it a try. And for gosh sake, Eve, take your foot off the chair!
adam		I guess a lot of those tall buildings we saw this morning are new.
troy		Almost all of them.
adam		The recovery is very impressive.
troy		The recovery? Oh , yeah! Hey, they rebuilt the freeway in six months.
adam		Amazing. I'm very impressed.
troy		Well, what do you think?
eve		I think...it...works.
troy		Let me show you the entire trousseau!
adam		But first let me show her these!
troy		 How 'bout it, Eve? Can he skate around your block?
eve		 No.
eve		He's going to kill himself.  Go skate out on the bike path! It's that way!
adam		Okay!
eve		That water's freezing!
troy		He's from Alaska.
troy		That's why little things mean so much to him.
adam		I LOVE THIS!!
troy		 What?! He wanted to hear some standards!
adam		I get it! I finally get it! You have to see it to understand it!
adam		Hey, Eve!
eve		Have you ever heard the saying, "He hasn't got enough sense to come in out of the rain?"
adam		Yep.  You know, my father -- who is a scientist -- says that everything is a miracle. Everything. Until recently I wasn 't sure what he meant by that.
eve		Yeah? No kidding. Listen, you still want to go girl hunting tonight?
adam		I certainly do!
eve		Okay. But you know, this business of finding you a wife -- it's kind of ridiculous, don't you think?
adam		 No it's not!
eve		Yes it is. A girlfriend maybe. But a wife? I mean...
adam		Then just help me find a girlfriend! That's all I ask. I'll give you every single card I've got left!
eve		Hey, screw you! Okay? You think I'm just somebody you can buy off! Listen, let me tell you something--
adam		 Would you do it just because you're my friend? My very best friend.
eve		Well...yeah. Okay.
adam		Thank Q, Eve!
adam		Why did you park way back there?
troy		Miss Rustokov refuses to let total strangers drive her car.
adam		Oh. I see.
troy		What?!
adam		Ladies first, Troy! That was close.
adam		My goodness gracious!  This place is something!
eve		Look unimpressed.
troy		Bored even.
troy		Vaguely bored!
eve		Unimpressed, but still interested.
eve		No!  Not crazy!
adam		Do I look crazy?
eve		Yes!
troy		Be loose.
eve		Just be yourself.
troy		Always good advice.
eve		For him. It doesn't work for the rest of us.
adam		Holy Mo-ly, Miss Pay-o-ly!! This place is neat-o!!
eve		Jason, Jonathan, this is Adam! Adam, that's them!
adam		How do you do?! It's very nice to meet you, Jason and Jonathan!  My mother always told me that if you meet a person for the first time it's easier to remember their names if you use those names right away.
troy		He's from Alaska!
sophie		Hi, there, Eve, who's the hunk?
eve		Get lost, Sophie.
sophie		Hi. I'm Sophie.
adam		Hello, Sophie, I'm Adam Webber.
jason		Adam lives in Alaska.
sophie		No shit?
adam		Tu parle Francais? Tu a un tres bon accent.
sophie		You speak beautiful French! J'ai habit a Paris un an.
adam		Paris!! La ville de lumieres! C'est bien rencontrer quelqu'un pour pratiquer le francais.
sophie		Si tu veux, nous pouvons pratiquer beaucoup des choses ensemble.
eve		Quit showing off!  We're here on business!
adam		Good-bye!
sophie		Non, cherie. A bientot.
adam		I thought I was here to meet women.
eve		Not that one!
adam		I like her.
eve		And don't be so obvious!
eve		What have you ordered?
adam		It's a Rob Roy. A very popular drink, I'm told.
adam		Why?!  I think she's very attractive.
eve		Adam!  She's got bitch written all over her!  You do know what "bitch" means, don't you?
adam		Yes, I have a dictionary. But I can't understand for the life of me why you would call her that!  Or why Cliff would say that about you.
eve		Because we're bitches!  Look at her! Look at the expression on her face! The walk, the jewelry, the fingernails.  Please!
adam		How 'bout this one?
eve		Are you kidding?!  You wouldn't even be a crumb on her table!  You don't see that?!
troy		Eve?!
eve		Well, I'm trying to educate him!  It's nothing personal.
troy		Adam,  I think for you, we should go for "sweet."
adam		Okay. I like that.
eve		 Yeah, sweet.  That's a nice way of putting it.
adam		 What do I say to Miss Sweet when I meet her?
troy		Um... Eve?
eve		It's not so much what you say but how you say it.  Women like men who are unpredictable.
adam		Really?
eve		Yes, really! Basically, they want what they think they can't have.  Same with guys.  That's why everybody is walking around here sending off "you can't have me" signals!
adam		That's ridiculous.
eve		Maybe. But that's how it works.
troy		Ah-ha! There's " Miss Sweet."  At the hors d'oeuvres table!
eve		Yeah.  Could be.  Go say hello, Romeo. Looks like a healthy non-mutant to me.
adam		 And what do I say?
eve		Say something surprising. And funny. Lie, if need be.
troy		Yes! Lying is always a very effective dating tool.
adam		Okay. Thank you, my friends.
eve		What?
adam		Romeo and Juliet. I cried at the end.
eve		Did you?
troy		I'm not sure I want to watch this.
adam		 Surprising and funny. Well, I know a duck who bought some lip balm...
adam		Hi!
miss sweet		 Yes?
adam		 I was wondering if you might help me. I...I seem to have lost my Congressional Medal of Honor somewhere around here.
miss sweet		Oh, now, that's a great one!
adam		 You like it?
miss sweet		 Bravo!
adam		Thank-Q!
miss sweet		This is my new friend...
adam		I'm Adam Webber.
miss sweet		He's really funny!
heather		Hi!  I'm Heather!
adam		"Heather?"  I don't believe I've ever heard that name before.
heather		Yeah, right!
miss sweet		I told you!  He's funny!
miss sweet		We work on Rodeo Drive.  But we're both professional dancers.
adam		Really?
heather		You dance?
adam		I took a dance lesson everyday of my life until a couple of days ago.
miss sweet		You're kidding!
adam		No, I'm not! My mom taught me.
miss sweet		Your mom was a dancer?
adam		She is a dancer! And a lovely one! You would like her very much! Shall we dance?
miss sweet		Sure.
troy		You know, he's a very, very good--
eve		Shut up!
troy		Must you...
troy		What in the hell is wrong with you?!!
miss sweet		Is that your girl friend?
adam		No. Would you please excuse me?
heather		If you'll please come back.
adam		I will certainly try.  And thank you both very much for the dance.
miss sweet		When was the last time you saw manners like that?
heather		Yeah.  It's like meeting a foreigner or something.
eve		 Go to the bathroom.
troy		Right here?  Well, you're being so bossy I wasn't sure!
adam		You wanted to see me!
eve		You're not from Alaska!  Where'd you learn to dance like that?!  And there are no starving people, are there?!
adam		Why are you suddenly so mad at me?
eve		Don't change the subject! I want you to tell me the truth about yourself.
adam		I've never lied to you.  I've maybe let you believe things that you wanted to believe, but I've never lied.
eve		You think I'm some sort of sap?! Don't you?!
adam		No.  I admire you.  I...I fell in love with you the first time I saw you.  I did. I think that you are the most--
eve		I want to know exactly who you are and what you're really up to!
adam		All right. Let me tell you the whole thing. In 1962--
adam		Hello, Cliff, how are you this evening?
cliff		Not bad.
cliff		But I do miss that green sport coat of yours.
adam		Thank you very much. But, Cliff, that's my seat. And I was just--
cliff		 How 'bout a drink at the bar?
eve		 Sure.
cliff		It's all yours.
eve		So where is your roommate, the model?
cliff		You know, I don't know.  And looking at you, I don't care.  It's been too long, Eve.
cliff		Oh, brother...
adam		Eve, I don't mean to be rude, and please excuse me Cliff, but Eve, isn't Cliff just a butt with hair?
cliff		What?!
adam		I'm sorry, and legs. Legs, butt and hair.  Well, isn't he?  And shallow, as well?
cliff		 Shallow? I'm shallow?!
eve		Go home, Adam.  Go to your hotel.
cliff		Yeah. Before I kick your ass.
adam		Cliff, I must warn you. I know how to defend myself.
cliff		Do ya?
eve		Stop it, you two!
cliff		 I guess we shouldn't fight in here.
adam		 Yes, I agree.
eve		Adam?!
adam		I'm sorry.
cliff		 Maybe we shouldn't fight at all. Fighting is pretty immature.
adam		 It certainly is.  I agree with you completely.
cliff		Eve? I'm leaving.
eve		I don't blame you!
adam		 Eve, I'm sorry.
cliff		 Well, good night, everyone.
eve		I'm leaving, too.
adam		But, Eve, I would--
eve		And tomorrow maybe Troy will help you out--because I quit!  This is ridiculous! You're ridiculous! I'm ridiculous!
eve		He go back to the hotel?
troy		Uh..he might of.
eve		What's that mean?
troy		We did not leave together.
eve		Who did he leave with?
troy		What's it to you?!
eve		I'm his pimp. He left with the dancers, didn't he?
troy		Hey, you're the psychic. Eve, the psychic pimp.  You tell me.
eve		Those sluts!
troy		Yeah. But who's not a slut these days?
eve		Where are you going?
troy		To bed.
eve		To bed?
troy		Yeah.  I'm not the one who's in love with the guy.
eve		What?!  Now hold on!  Wait one damn minute!
eve		In the first place, I don't fall in love with weirdos I've only known for four or five days.
troy		Yes, you do.
eve		And I don't fall in love with grown men who collect baseball cards!!
troy		Uh, yes, you do.
eve		Or pee in their pants when they see the ocean!
troy		Yes, you do!
eve		Or have perfect table manners.
troy		 Know what else he told me?
eve		 What?
troy		He thinks that I am a gentleman and that you are a lady!
eve		Well, consider the source. I don't even know what a lady is.
troy		Exactly! I thought a gentleman was somebody who owned horses. Turns out, the short and very simple definition of a gentleman or a lady is: someone who always attempts to make the people around him or her feel as comfortable as possible. That's it! If you don't do that, nothing else matters. The cars, the clothes, the houses...
eve		Where did he get all that information?
troy		From the oddest place. His parent's told him. I don't think I got that memo.
eve		So now I suppose he's trying to make those two dancers feel as comfortable as possible.
troy		He didn't leave with them.
eve		Well...I admit it. I'm glad to hear that.
troy		He left with Sophie.
eve		What?!!
troy		It's true.  She swept him out the door whispering little French things into his ear.
eve		Oh, no! Not Sophie! No way! Please don't tell me that!!
troy		What are you going to do? Go over to her place and kick in the door?
eve		You're goddamn right I am!
troy		 I don't think so.
eve		Coward!
troy		Gentleman coward, to you.
eve		Come on!  Come on, damn it!
adam		Hi!
adam		Eve?!
eve		Scare me, why don't you?!!?  You stupid son of a bitch!!!
adam		I'm really sorry!
eve		What in the hell are you doing here!! You're supposed to be over on San Vicente Boulevard having unsafe sex with that slut Sophie!!
adam		I know...and I'm really sorry.
eve		Well, you should be!  Thanks to you, my heart is in my neck!
adam		What?
eve		Goodnight!
adam		Eve, if you'll let me, I can --
eve		Look! I'm limping!  How attractive is that?!  What if this is for life?!
adam		I know first aid!
eve		Well, you had better!!
eve		Wait a minute.
eve		There.
adam		Thanks.
adam		Steady. Steady.  It's going to be all right in no time.
adam		I went to Sophie's and she was very hospitable.
eve		Is that what you call it?
adam		But it just wasn't where I wanted to be so I left as politely as I could and found a taxi.  But I asked the driver to drop me here instead of at the hotel.  There's a song Mister Como sings called "On the Street Where You Live."  You know it?
eve		Sing it to me.
adam		 "All at once am I--several stories high-- knowing I'm--on the street-- where you live."  It's about a young man who is overjoyed just to be standing in front of the house of the person he loves.
eve		Adam...dumb question, but humor me. Have you ever had sex before?
adam		No.
eve		How is that possible?
adam		 In 1962, when the bomb was dropped on Los Angeles, my parents were in our fallout shelter.  That's where I was born. We only survived because it was a huge shelter as fallout shelters go. My father worked on it secretly for years. When he had to, he used contractors, but always from out-of- state and always for just a portion of the job. He told them it was a secret government experiment done through CalTech. My Dad's not a liar, but he felt in this case he had no choice. Of course, it had to be a secret, because we had just enough supplies to last three people thirty-five years. That's also why I have no brothers or sisters. The air vent was the really tricky part, but he was able to cut into a flood control sewer. What I'd like to do Eve, is take you down into the fallout shelter with me. We could live there with my Mom and Dad. My dad said if I found a healthy girl I should "bring her on down". And you look plenty healthy to me.
eve		Uh-huh. Adam?
adam		Yes, Eve?
eve		I want you to go back to the hotel now.  I'll call you a cab.
adam		Of course.  I shouldn't be over here at this hour.
eve		That's right.  And I'll see you in the morning in the lobby.  Do you mind waiting outside for the taxi?
adam		Not at all.  And Eve thank you for tonight...and for the kiss. My first.
eve		My pleasure.
adam		It was at least as good as the sky.
eve		Really?  Okay!
adam		And I think better than the ocean. I'm serious!
eve		Neat. Goodnight!
troy		Goddamn, Adam!
adam		Wait a minute!
troy		I'm sorry. I took the Lord's name in vain again, didn't I?  I'm so sorry.
adam		No!  There's an Adult Bookstore back there!  I'll be right back!
troy		Without question, the strangest man I've ever met.
soda jerk		Give us a sign!  That's all we ask! Give us some sort of sign!
adam		Okay, Troy!  Let's get those all-beef frozen patties!
troy		How 'bout we check with Eve first?
adam		You bet!
troy		So, did you buy a movie?
adam		What?
troy		A magazine?  A toy perhaps?  In the bookstore.
adam		 No, I wouldn't go in one of those places with a gas mask on.
troy		 I know what you mean!  I usually wear a big hat and dark glasses.
adam		Does that work?
troy		Yeah...Seems to.
adam		Hi, Eve!
eve		Hi, Adam.  This is, uh....
aron		I'm Nina Aron, Adam.
adam		How do you do?
aron		Very well, thank you. I'm with the County Family Services Department. Eve tells me you've been living in a bomb shelter most of your life.
adam		Fallout shelter. There's a difference.
aron		Adam, I'd like to introduce you to my associate -- Mr. Brown.
adam		Hello.
aron		We want you to come with us so we can talk some more about your experiences.
adam		Come where?
aron		My office.
adam		For how long?
aron		Well, that depends...
adam		I thank you very much for the invitation, but I'm quite busy today. Perhaps I could see you tomorrow.
eve		Adam....you should go with Dr. Aron. It's the best thing.  The best thing for you. I promise.
adam		...All right, Eve.  If you say so.
eve		...I do.
adam		 Could I please just go home?  I was lost, but this morning I found home and I promise not to bother any of you ever again.
aron		Let's go talk first, Adam.
adam		Yes, ma'am.
troy		Good-bye, Adam.
adam		Goodbye.
aron		 You'll be hearing from me.
eve		Well what was I supposed to do?! He wants me to live underground with him! That's like Silence of the Lambs, don't you think?!
troy		I know...I know. You did the right thing.
eve		Oh, no!
troy		What?!
eve		Oh, my God!
aron		He'll catch him.  Hi. This is Nina Aron.  I've got a run away and I'm going to need police assistance.
eve		No!  Not the police!  Don't call them!
aron		I have to. If a complaint is made and the person resists obser--
eve		No, I can't have that! They'll come with their cars and their guns and their handcuffs--
aron		Calm down, please. This man needs help and you need protection from him. That's obvious.
eve		You know, I don't think so. I'm confused but you know, I don't think he'd ever hurt me. I don't think he'd hurt anyone.
aron		And now you must let me be the judge of that!
eve		I was frightened and I didn't know what to think! But you know-I believe him. I think he just wants to go home. Wherever the hell that is...
aron		Let's all remain calm. That's the key thing.
adam		The key to my hotel room!  I want you to have my baseball cards!  And please be sure to pay my bill!
aron		Young man, stop right there!
aron		Stop, right now! Get out of that truck!
troy		Adam, you really shouldn't try to drive that truck!
adam		 Bye, Troy!
troy		Bye, Adam!
adam		And thanks for always being happy!
troy		What?
eve		Gay.
troy		Oh.  Well, you're...certainly welcome!
aron		Hey!!! That's my car, you son of a bitch!!
brown		I fell down!  What's the license number of that truck?!
aron		Don't ask them!  They're as fucked-up as the other guy!
troy		Let's all just try to remain calm. That's the key thing.
aron		How 'bout I just knock the shit out of you?!
troy		I guess he took what he could.
eve		 Good God...you don't think there really is a bomb shelter, do you?
troy		Fallout shelter.
adam		I've got almost everything we need! And this nice man...
soda jerk		Archbishop Melker. We met earlier.
adam		...and his church group have volunteered to help us bring the supplies down.  But we've got to hurry.
helen		Are you in trouble, son?!
adam		I think I'm being chased by a psychiatrist.
helen		A psychiatrist?!
soda jerk		It happens.
helen		My goodness! How bad is it up there?!
soda jerk		Horrible.
calvin		You have something on your forehead.
soda jerk		I know.
troy		This it?
troy		What do you want to do with it?
eve		Give it back to him.
troy		And if we can't find him?
eve		We'll find him.
troy		What's wrong?
eve		I don't know.  Everything's so neat. It's all just so...goddamn dear.  Damn!
troy		See these?  Found them in the box with the cards.  These are stock certificates.  IBM.  AT&T.  Polaroid.
jason		Purchased in 1958 and '59?  Ten thousand shares of each?  They'd be worth millions. Hell, I don't know...millions upon millions upon millions!  How 'bout that?
troy		Thanks, Jason.
troy		Millions upon millions upon millions! The cards. The stock!  The clothes! The toothpaste!  The guy was on the level!  And you blew it!  A man walks into your life who is the kindest, most polite, honest, trustworthy, incredibly rich guy you have ever met in your life!! And what do you do?!
eve		Have him committed.
troy		Yeah! That's thinking.
eve		He was always so "nice"! How was I supposed to know that's a good thing?! "Nice" is weird! Nice is...what is "nice"? It's not cool! I'll tell you that.  Was it ever?
troy		I don't know. I like to think so.
eve		Well, at least I fell for him before I found out he was rich! That's new.  Wait a minute! He said today he knew where home was. What happened this morning?! Where did you go?!
troy		To get some frozen poultry.
eve		Then what?
troy		We came back to the house!
eve		You didn't stop anywhere else?!
troy		No. No, wait a minute. We stopped at a porno store.
eve		What?!
troy		An adult bookstore. He was very excited about seeing it. You think home is under a dirty bookstore in the Valley?
eve		Come on.
troy		Trendy address.
eve		 Have you got a basement?
pakistani		 Believe me, all the really good stuff is right here.
eve		Is there a back entrance?
pakistani		Are you kidding?  Of course.
eve		Why would you put a fallout shelter under a porno shop?
troy		None of this stuff was here in 1962. The Valley was mostly small homes and fruit orchards.
eve		Well, we've come a long way, haven't we?  I want to go home.
troy		Yeah.  Maybe he'll call.
troy		Hi. Troy and Eve are out so leave a message. And if you want to leave a number don't say it fast! I hate that! Say it slow. Thank you.
adam		Uh, Eve...this is Adam.  Look, I just wanted to thank you for everything you did for me...and I wanted to tell you that I...uh...that I wish so many good things for you. I wish so hard that all of your dreams come true. Um...I, uh...
eve		Adam!!
troy		Where?!
eve		Stop!
eve		Adam!!
helen		How long will you set it for this time?
calvin		I thought ten years.
helen		Well, that's...considerably shorter than before.  I was wondering, Calvin, why set the locks at all.  I mean the radiation is gone and...
calvin		To keep what's up there from getting down here! It's not the radiation I'm worried about.
adam		I'd like for you to meet Miss Eve Rustokov.
eve		 How do you do, Mrs. Webber?  Mr. Webber?
webbers		 Hello.
eve		Uh-huh. I've heard so many wonderful things about you.
helen		Well, please excuse us!  We...we haven't entertained a guest in...um...
calvin		Some time.
helen		What can I offer you, Eve?
adam		Mom?  Eve and I have to go.
helen		What?
adam		I can't explain it now.  But I want you to set the locks for two months. You have more than enough of everything.  Then we'll be back to get you.
calvin		But, I don't understand.
adam		And, I'm asking you to trust me without understanding why.
calvin		Well, in that case...of course, son.
helen		Of course.
eve		They are wonderful parents.
adam		We have to go.
helen		No, wait! At least stay for dinner!
calvin		Yes, please! You must.
eve		Adam said I shouldn't mention the Communists.
helen		Oh, yes! Please, don't mention the Communists!
helen		Eve. I hope I'm not being nosey, but are you and Adam...um...dating?
eve		Yes, Mrs. Webber we are.  I'm also from Pasadena.
calvin		A toast! To Adam and Eve!
eve		 What is this sh...stuff?!
calvin		Hot Dr. Pepper! Most people don't know how good it is heated up.
eve		You know, they don't, do they?
helen		Oh, my goodness! We almost forgot!  I like your friend, Adam.
broker		It's like the Garden of Eden, don't you think?
adam		That lamp is perfect!
store owner		 I'm holding that for Elton John.
troy		 Oh, I think not.
adam		Eve, I've got to go back! My parents can't handle this up here. And there was no bomb, was there?
eve		No.
adam		See! I can't tell them that!  I can't ever let them know. It makes their life..well, frankly... a joke.  I can't let that happen.  You understand?
eve		We can make this work, Adam! Believe me! I'm very good at making things work!
adam		My mother's like that.
eve		You'll be a ten percent partner and still retain ownership of the entrance.
soda jerk		Praise the Lord.  And I mean the real one.
adam		You put the tape in here and you get a movie -- in your own home.
helen		This is your bedroom?
adam		No, Mom, I've turned it into Dad's office.
helen		Well, where are you --
adam		Eve and I...eloped.  We're married.
helen		No.
adam		Yes.
eve		Is that all right?
helen		It's wonderful, dear! Wonderful!!
calvin		 That's wonderful. We Webber guys have mighty good luck when it comes to women.
adam		It's kind of a combination television- typewriter-telephone-post office type of thing.  I'll show it to you later.
calvin		This is great son, just great. By the way, Eve's last name. Rus-to-kov, that's not Russian, is it?
adam		It's Ukrainian. Her grandparents immigrated here.
calvin		Uh-huh.
adam		Dad, I don't know how to tell you this. And I was going to wait a while, but I think...Dad,there was no bomb. A plane crashed into our backyard. I looked it up in old newspapers.
calvin		 You're sure?
adam		Positive. The Soviet Union collapsed without a shot being fired. The Cold War is over.
calvin		That's what everybody believes?
adam		Yes, sir. It's true.
calvin		What? Did the politburo just one day say - "We give up?"
adam		Yes. That's kind of how it was.
calvin		Uh-huh.
calvin		My gosh, those Commies are brilliant! You've got to hand it to 'em!  "No, we didn't drop any bombs!  Oh yes, our evil empire has collapsed!  Poor, poor us!"  I bet they've even asked the West for aid!  Right?!
adam		Uh, I think they have.
calvin		Hah!!! Those cagey rascals! Those sly dissemblers! Those, uh...  They've finally pulled the wool over everybody's eyes!
****Dialogues from script :Blind_Side.txt****

granger		Do you find it odd? Your predicament?
michael		Iono [I don't know]... Investigator Granger sifts through her briefcase, pulls out files, documents - a good bit of evidence for whatever trouble Michael is in. She sits back, stares at Michael, as if trying to figure him out. Michael can't meet her gaze. He looks out the window, rubs his knees some more.
big tony		They say you the coach. Cotton eyes Tony, offers a hand.
big tony		Tony Hamilton, but everybody call me Big Tony.
cotton		What can I do for you, Tony?
steven		Sure is pretty, huh, Big Mike? Mike doesn't answer, just takes it all in. Steven sees and opens a container filled to the brim with balls - footballs, basketballs, four square balls.
michael		White people are crazy.
big tony		You see I promised my mama Boo, on her deathbed, that I would get Steven outta public and into a church school.
cotton		I appreciate that but I'm not involved with admissions.
big tony		I figured I'd come to you; seeing as you might need some players.
cotton		What sport does he play?
big tony		Anything with a ball. Good, too. He has Cotton's attention for a moment, then it passes...
cotton		Classes start in a week. It'd have to be for next semester.
big tony		I know what you're thinking, Coach, but I got money. I'm a mechanic at Wilson's Auto t'other side of town.
cotton		"They?" You only mentioned one son.
big tony		Steven, yessir, but I brought another boy along.
cotton		Another boy?
big tony		Yeah, Big Mike. He stays on our couch sometimes. It's a bad deal. His mama's on the crack pipe and he ain't got nobody. He just wanted to come along with us today.
cotton		Would... Big Mike be an applicant as well?
big tony		Yeah, sure, why not. Cotton sighs, considers what to do.
cotton		They'd have to fill out applications and make an appointment for interviews.
big tony		I was hopin' you might just interview 'em now.
cotton		They're here? Big Tony points out the.window to the playground where Steven and Michael are playing one on one basketball.
big tony		The little ones Steven and the big
cotton		Big Mike.
big tony		Yeah. That's right.
cotton		Mother of God...
cotton		Are there spots available or not? PAUL SANDSTROM, Principal, taps his fingers before...
cotton		Big Mike.
cotton		How bad could it be? Another board member, MRS. SMITH, pores over Michael's file, which is a mess. She finds facts and lays them out ---
cotton		So they moved him ahead without going to third grade. That says something.
cotton		Brave kid.  For wanting to come here. For wanting a quality education. An education denied him by the poor quality of the schools he's attended. Most kids with his background wouldn't come within two hundred miles of this place.
sandstrom		He wouldn't be able to play until he got his grades up anyway.
cotton		Forget sports! Look at the wall. He points to the crest on the wall. Beneath it: "NEIGHBORLY,
michael		Can I leave now? She nods and watches him stand and walk away. She glances down at the sheet, turns it over and sees... A DRAWING on the back - a boat on an ocean. On the boat is a single, stick figure person. It's sweet but looks like a third grader drew it.
steven		Hey, Big Mike, um... my Pops' girlfriend... she don't really want you to stay with us no more. Big Tony's Taurus pulls into the lot.
michael		Naw, it's aright. Steven gets in the Taurus. Michael watches it drive away.
leigh anne		 I don't care if Patrick Ramsey did approve the chair. He's an NFL quarterback not Martha frickin' Stewart.
sean		S.J., you know that kid?
sj		What kid?
sean		Black kid. Up in the corner.
si		Be goes to high school here. His name is Big something... Big Mike. Sean eyes Michael suspiciously.
sean		He look like a volleyball fan to you? Leigh Anne, loaded up with refreshments, makes her way up the stands to her family. She has a nod, a smile, a bon mot, for everyone she passes. As she sits...
leigh anne		What'd I miss?
sean		Collins got a dig.
si		It's girl's volleyball, Mom. You didn't miss anything. Leigh Anne gives him a look then stands and shouts --
leigh anne		Collins! Move your feet! ON THE COURT - COLLINS TUOHY, a beautiful 16-year-old, sighs and gives her mother a look - "Don't embarrass me!"
leigh anne		Collins, we'll wait outside. And don't double condition in the shower - you still have homework!
collins		I'm going over to Cannon's house to study.
si		Can I go.to the Johnson's for dinner? They invited me.
leigh anne		What's so awful about our house? Sean smiles, shakes his head as SJ and Collins leave.
bob		I don't think he has any idea what I'm teaching.
glenda		And how would you know if he did? He won't even talk. Mrs. Boswell can't contain herself.
april		His name. Barely. Mrs. Boswell goes to'her purse, pulls out a crumpled page.
bob		How's the spelling? Mrs. Boswell stuffs the page back in her purse and leaves.
cotton		If he makes his grades he'll be eligible in the spring.
sean		If he makes his grades.
cotton		But boy-hidey, just look at him. Cotton is admiring Michael's size but Sean sees something else. He stands, walks over to Michael, who barely looks up.
sean		What did you eat for lunch today?
michael		Here in the cafeteria.
sean		I didn't ask where you ate, I asked what you ate.
michael		A few things.
sean		Do you need some money? For lunch?
michael		I don't need any. Sean walks back over to Coach Cotton.
sean		Buy him a semester lunch pass and put it on my bill.  He's hungry.
cotton		You could tell that by looking at him?
michael		Iono...
michael		Like our "class"?
bob		Who knows it and what does he know?
april		On how big a curve?
michael		They're stuck, not sure if they should talk to this "stranger". They jump off the swings and run away.
leigh anne		Who's that SJ?
si		Big Mike.
leigh anne		Get your feet off my dash.
michael		Iono.
sandstrom		I'll try and find out where he's buried. Maybe we could go visit? Michael nods, then rises and walks away.
leigh anne		Turn on the heat!
sean		I don't know where it is.
leigh anne		It's fifteen degrees, you've had this car a month and you don't know how to turn on the heat?!  What would you do without.me?
sean		Lots of things you'll never know about.
si		Get a room.
leigh anne		Si, don't let this go to your head but I thought you were very convincing in the role of... uh...
si		Indian Number Three. I tried out for the Chief but they gave it to Andy Sung. I can't be sure but I think there was some multi-cultural bias thing working.
sean		Or maybe they just thought he'd make a better Chief.
si		Dad, he's like Chinese.
leigh anne		And you're Irish. If you weren't the Chief how come you got the headdress? Si hesitates a bit before --
si		Dad, I'm gonna need a few more of those free Quesadilla tickets.
sean		Don't laugh too hard. The Quesadilla saved our ass.
leigh anne		What is he wearing? It's below freezing. What's his name again?
leigh anne		Where's he going? She gives Sean a look. Sean rolls down his window.
sean		Hey, Big Mike! Michael stops in the crosswalk, looks to the car.
michael		Gym.._. Sean nods, rolls his window back up and drives as the light turns green.
leigh anne		The gym? It's nine o'clock. No answer to this. They drive another half block,before --
leigh anne		Big Mike, my name is Leigh Anne Tuohy. My kids go to Wingate. You said you're going to the gym? Michael slowly nods.
michael		Because... it's warm. This hits her all at once. She bites her lip.
leigh anne		Do you have anywhere to stay tonight? Michael eyes the ground, then nods.
sean		I've seen that look many times. She's about to get her way. Leigh Anne makes her way back to the car, with Michael in tow. She opens the back door and he gets in next to SJ in his headdress. Leigh Anne climbs into the front seat, closes the door. Sean is looking at her.
leigh anne		Home.
collins		How'd the dork do in the play? She turns to see... Sean, Leigh Anne, SJ in headdress and Big Mike.
leigh anne		I'd give you the guest bedroom but it's full of sample boxes. And the sectional in the family room slides apart when you sleep on it. At least that's what Sean says.
sj		Psst... SJ is in the doorway to the kitchen.
leigh anne		Was this a bad idea?
sean		What?
leigh anne		Don't lie there and pretend you're not thinking the same thing as me.
sean		Fine, tell me what you're thinking so I can know what's supposed to be on my mind.
leigh anne		How well do you know Big Mike?
sean		In case you haven't noticed he doesn't have much to say. What's the big deal? It's just one night.  It is just one night, right?.. Leigh Anne?...
leigh anne		Do you think he'll steal anything?
sean		I guess we'll know in. the morning. He rolls over to go to sleep. Leigh Anne just sits, stares.
leigh anne		If you hear a scream call the insurance adjustor.
leigh anne		Up and at 'em. Collins groans. Leigh Anne picks up a few pieces of clothes. on her way out and groans at the mess. We stay with her as she re-enters the hallway, walks and opens the door to --
leigh anne		Sean Junior! She opens the shades.
leigh anne		Mike? Big Mike?! Nothing. She hears a DOG BARKING in the neighborhood and moves to the window to look out.
leigh anne		Big Mike!
michael		Iono.
leigh anne		Are you spending Thanksgiving with your family? Michael shakes his head.
leigh anne		Come and get it! Sean sits at the TV,"watching an Ole Miss football game, while SJ plays.video games on another. Collins chats on her cell. Michael sits off to the side, taking it all in.
sean		SJ, Ole Miss is about to score!
si		Which means they're about to fumble. They all shuffle over, grab plates, start piling on food. Sean loads his plate and heads back to the couch.
sean		Looks great, hon. Collins plate is pretty delicately apportioned.
collins		I see a lot of starch. SJ jams turkey into a roll and lathers on cranberry sauce - creating an easy to eat sandwich. He walks away.
leigh anne		As much as you want.
si		Why are we eating in here? Leigh Anne holds out her hands.
leigh anne		Shall we say grace? The Tuohy family plus Michael hold hands. Collins stares at her tiny hand intertwined with Michael's. As Leigh Anne prays Michael tries to emulate behavior without closing his eyes, taking it all in...
michael		I qot clothes.
leigh anne		You "have" clothes.. And an extra T- shirt in a plastic bag does not a wardrobe make. He looks out the window.
michael		I don't like to be called Big Mike. She wasn't expecting this, nods her head.
leigh anne		Okay. Mike or Michael?  Tell you what, from now on, to me, 'you're Michael. So,... Michael, where we headed?
leigh anne		This is where your mother lives? He nods and she opens her door.
michael		Don't get out!
leigh anne		Who's going to help you with your clothes?
alton		Big Mike! Where you been?! Michael ignores, keeps walking.
michael		Hey, David. David, a little embarrassed to be with Alton, nods back.
michael		She wadn't home.
leigh anne		We can come back. Michael takes this in, looks out the window.
michael		She prolly moved to a nicer place.
leigh anne		I've lived in Memphis my whole life and never been anywhere near here. You're going to take care of me, right?
michael		I got your back.
leigh anne		That's good to know. Thank you. As they start to walk, Leigh Anne reaches up and takes Michael's arm. He holds it out for her.
salesman		Everything I got to fit him will be -right here.
leigh anne		This is it? If this is all you got why's it say "Big and Tall" on the sign?
salesman		Big and Tall. You need "Bigger and Taller". He walks away. She starts to pore through the small rack.
leigh anne		Anything you like?
leigh anne		Have a great day. Learn something! They say a few good-byes, get out and walk toward the arch. Only then do we see what Michael is wearing: a GARGANTUAN
beth		The best part about Paris was the food.
leigh anne		Any of y'all spent much time on the other side of town?
elaine		On the freeway.
sherry		Where exactly are you talking about?
leigh anne		Alabama Street... Hurt Village.
beth		Hurt Village -- that sounds like a threat.
leigh anne		You're not far off.
sherry		It would "hurt" me to go there.
elaine		It would certainly hurt your reputation to go there.
beth		 I'm actually from there but didn't mind hard work and look where I am now.
leigh anne		Eating an eighteen dollar salad.
beth		And it's a little soggy to be honest.
sherry		Such a shame.
beth		 Yes it is.
sherry		Civil rights was responsible for some good things but those programs - building ugly, low cost housing. I mean how could you be creative if you lived there? It's stifling.
elaine		Did you know that black men were employed at a higher rate before those programs? It's a fact.
beth		They're not "black", Elaine. The term du jour is African-American.
elaine		And what if they're from Jamaica, or like Bermuda.
sherry		Then they're BerMUDian-Americans. They all cringe and laugh.
elaine		So, why are you asking about the projects, Leigh.Anne? Another one of your charities?
beth		A project for the projects. That's catchy. Money would raise itself.  Don't laugh. Count me in, Leigh Anne. And they laugh harder. Leigh Anne smiles, biting her lip.
si		It can't be that hard.
michael		Oh, yeah?... Si looks at the Michael's notebook.
si		There are different parts of a sentence and you just have to draw lines showing what they do. Sean stops by the refrigerator for a cold drink while he talks on his cell...
sj		Dad, you remember how to diagram sentences?
sean		Nah. Sean starts to leave, then stops at the door, turns around, sighs and walks over. He leans in over Michael.
michael		You don't have to help.  I mean if you're busy or somethin'.
sean		I know.  Think of a sentence like a football team. This is a noun here, see? That's like the team name or what they're known for - whether they're a running team or a passing team. And this is the verb. That's what makes 'em go - like a star player -- maybe a quarterback, maybe a running back. And this is an adjective - everybody oohs and ahs over adjectives but they're not as important as verbs.
si		They're like wide receivers.
sean		Or kickers. Michael just stares at them.
michael		Not exactly. They all laugh.
nearby		Leigh Anne watches, fixated on the image of the three. Sean has an arm on Michael's shoulder. She smiles, almost sadly.
leigh anne		Do you want to stay here, Michael? He keeps working.
michael		I don't want to go anyplace else. She's a bit befuddled by the response.
leigh anne		Well,... alright then.
leigh anne		I see here on the admission that we're Michael's contact for medical emergencies? Mrs. Smith  sits with her.
leigh anne		Love that man. Leigh Anne pulls out another sheet, hands it over...
leigh anne		They try to figure out what a kid's going to be in the eighth grade? What does. it say about Michael? Mrs. Smith nods and reads over Michael's results.
leigh anne		Which one?
leigh anne		Yes, it is sad. So sad. But he either doesn't know it or doesn't think so and it's my job, and your job, to make sure he doesn't find out.  "Darned."
leigh anne		I had to put half my samples in storage but well, anyway, back there's a desk.  Chest o'drawers. Night stand. Lamps. Alarm clock. Bed. Sean says a lot of pro athletes use futons if they can't find a big enough bed. Michael doesn't dare touch anything, just stares in awe.
michael		It's mine?
leigh anne		Yeah.  What?
michael		Never had one before.
michael		A bed. We can see this unsettles her. She turns away a bit, trying to contain herself.
leigh anne		Well, you got one now.
michael		I think I know that. It's when water...
michael		I know that. The little guy, Napoleon was on one side and...
michael		What?
sj		Enough with the rugby shirts. You look like a giant bumble bee. Collins walks by with friends and glances but ignores them.
girl student		Who's the big guy hanging around with your little brother?
collins		Just another one of Mom's projects.
girl student		That must get incredibly old. Collins' look says, "yes it does."
si		That Taco Bell. The KFC catty corner. The Long John Silvers on the next block.
michael		You own all of 'ern?
sj		Yeah. We've got hundreds.
michael		Is that why Mr. Tuohy don't have to go to work?
sean		Hey, hey now. I'm working even when I'm not working.
michael		And y'all eat at those places for free?
si		All you want. It's awesome.
michael		What do y'all do with the leftover food? At the restaurant?,
sean		Well, we have to throw some of it away. What's already been cooked.
michael		That's too bad.
sean		Yeah, I'd rather sell it.
si		Seems like you could give it away or something? You should check into that, Daddy. Leigh Anne and Sean share a look and a smile.
sean		All right, I will.
michael		Why ain't we eatin' at one of yours tonight?
sean		.Because tonight is a special occasion.
sj		What?
sean		I talked to Coach Cotton today. Michael's grades improved enough that he can do spring'training for football in March.
leigh anne		Isn't that great?
si		Oh, man, you are gonna crush some people! Michael almost smiles, a little unsure.
leigh anne		I've got a design book I need to get. Sean, go check on our reservation.
sean		They'll seat us when we walk in the door. You can get the book after dinner.
leigh anne		 They might be closed by then.
collins		I need some new magazines. SJ shrugs and joins the girls, as does Michael. Sean watches as his family deserts him.
leigh anne		Come on, your dad's already PO'ed. Collins holds up a book. Sendak's WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE.
collins		Remember this one, Mom? You read it to us like a thousand times. She softens, walks over, takes the book.
leigh anne		"And he gnashed his terrible teeth and roared his terrible roar.-
si		I always liked this one. He holds up THE STORY OF FERDINAND.
leigh anne		Yeah, me too. Leigh Anne sees Michael left out, but interested.
sean		Now that was a good steak.
collins		Thanks, Daddy.
michael		Thanks.
sean		You're welcome. As the car pulls up everyone walks toward it except Michael who notices something else -- AT THE SIDE DOOR: A BUSBOY steps outside for a smoke. Michael absently walks over.
leigh anne		Who was that boy you were talking to, Michael? At the restaurant.
michael		Marcus.
leigh anne		He works there?
michael		Yeah.
leigh anne		And how do you know Marcus?
michael		He's my brother. Complete silence in the car. Leigh Anne finally breaks it --
leigh anne		Well, I'd like to meet him someday. Would that be okay with you?
michael		I don't know where he stays.
leigh anne		When's the last time you saw him, Michael?
michael		When I was little mebbe.
leigh anne		"...and his name was Ferdinand. All the other little bulls he lived with would run and jump and butt their heads together, but not Ferdinand. He liked to sit just quietly and smell the flowers"...
sean		What?
leigh anne		Huh?
sean		Why are you smiling?
leigh anne		I don't know. I'm just happy. Really happy.
sean		Does. this happiness have anything to do with Michael?
leigh anne		No. It has everything to do with Michael. Sean smiles, kisses her, turns off the light. She snuggles next to him and kisses the back of his neck.
sean		Oh... He gets the message, rolls over and kisses her on the lips.
leigh anne		I think we should start a charity. For kids like him.
sean		 Sure, okay.
leigh anne		Maybe fund a program at Wingate.
sean		Absolutely...
leigh anne		Are you even listening to me?
sean		I try to concentrate on one thing at a time.
leigh anne		You knew I was a multi-tasker when you married me. She kisses him and they roll over, laughing.
photographer		Okay, big smiles everyone! FLASH! Leigh Anne smiles but notices --- Michael sitting on the couch by himself.
leigh anne		Michael! Come over here and get in the next one. Sean gives her a look like she's crazy.
photographer		Okay, really big smiles. One, two, three... say Rebels!
leigh anne		Who's winning?
si		Tennessee.
leigh anne		Too bad. Who are they playing?
sean		So you root against Tennessee no matter who they're playing?
leigh anne		Yep. With gusto.
leigh anne		Collie-bell, I thought you were going to your boyfriend's?
collins		I'm just gonna hang around here today.
leigh anne		I like that.
sean		Coupla messages on the machine. She pushes PLAY on the message machine.
message machine		Hey, Leigh Anne, it's Patrick Ramsey.
patrick ramsey		You sent me these measurements for clothes and I posted 'em in the locker room for donations but there's a problem.
message machine		Hey, Sean, hey Leigh Anne, it's cousin Bobby. Happy New Years!
cousin bobby		Listen, I've had about five cold ones so'I'm just gonna go ahead and ask... Who's the colored boy in y'all's,Christmas Card?
elaine		It was like you were Jessica Lange and he was King Kong.
sherry		I taped your card to, the fridge. The next morning Frank almost gagged on his orange juice.
beth		Does Michael get the family discount at Taco Bell? Because if he does Sean's gonna lose a few stores. More laughter.
leigh anne		Look, he's a great kid.
elaine		I say just make it official and adopt him. Big laughs at the "crazy" idea.
leigh anne		He'll be eighteen in a few months.  So, I mean it wouldn't make much sense to legally adopt him, right? They realize she's thought about it and stop laughing. After an awkward beat of silence...
sherry		Is this some kind of white guilt thing, Leigh Anne? I mean charity's the Lord's work but...
elaine		What will your daddy say?
leigh anne		Before or after he turns over in his grave? Daddy's gone five years now, Elaine, and to make matters worse you were at the funeral. You wore Chanel with that awful black hat. Before Elaine can attack --
sherry		I'm so sorry, Leigh Anne. We didn't intend to --
elaine		No, we didn't, really --
beth		I mean, what you're doing is so great. To open your home to him. You're changing his life. Leigh Anne smiles to herself, realizing...
leigh anne		No. He's changing mine.
elaine		That's awesome for you, but... what about Collins?
leigh anne		What about Collins?
elaine		Aren't you worried, even just a little?  I mean he is a boy, a large, black boy, sleeping under the same roof. Leigh Anne stares at them, shakes her head then grabs the
leigh anne		I've got this.  Shame on you. And strides away.
leigh anne		Be honest with me now, okay? Collins nods, having no idea what her mother is about to say.
collins		They're stupid kids, who cares what they say.
leigh anne		What kids?
collins		At school. They're juvenile.
leigh anne		And what do the juvenile kids say?
collins		It's really not worth repeating. And don't worry about SJ - he loves the attention. He introduces Michael as his big brother.
leigh anne		What about you?
collins		It's fine.  I mean, you can't just throw him out on the street.
leigh anne		I can make other arrangements.  Just let me know. Okay?... Leigh Anne kisses Collins goodnight.
michael		Hi. Need a push? They giggle and Michael pushes them, one arm each until they're flying high and squealing.
nearby		Collins watches.
friend		Where are you going? Collins walks away toward Michael.
collins		Quit looking at me like that. I mean, we study together at home. Eyes in the library are on the pair as they start to read.
cotton		You know how much those things weigh? This kid's gonna make us all famous.
sean		Easy, Bert. It's only the spring and he hasn't even been through his first practice.
cotton		Okay, Mike, you fought off the block but you've got to shuck him and make the tackle. You got it?
next play		Michael gets down in a his stance and when the ball is snapped he gets under the blocker and lifts him up like WWF. The quarterback goes back to pass and sees Michael lumbering toward him with the lineman on his shoulders. The Quarterback's eyes go wide and he races out of the pocket and throws and incomplete pass. ANOTHER WHISTLE.
leigh anne		How's he doing?
sean		Doesn't quite have the hang of it yet.
cotton		No! Michael drops back and tries to intercept a pass.
cotton		Most kids from bad situations can't wait to be violent and that comes out on the field. But this kid, he doesn't seem to wanna hit anyone.
leigh anne		 He's Ferdinand the Bull.
cotton		What?
leigh anne		Nothing.
cotton		I thought for sure he was gonna be a player. I can't believe I used up my chits to get him in school.
leigh anne		I thought you said it was your Christian duty? He gives her a smirk.
cotton		And he won't in the fall if he doesn't improve a lot before then.
si		This is your summer workout sheet. First it says to warm up and get loose.  Well, go ahead, get loose. Michael moves his arms around a bit then stops.
michael		Let's go home, play some video games.
michael		Iono..
si		What about Dad and Mom?  'Cause you see, in our family, everyone's an athlete. Dad was a basketball star, Collins plays volleyball and runs track. Me, as you know, I do it all and Mom,... well, Mom was a cheerleader, which doesn't exactly count but don't tell her I said that.
michael		Okay... Michael moves to the line. Si raises his whistle and blows.
michael		Mrs. Tuohy? Michael stands nearby.
leigh anne		I hear "Mrs. Tuohy" I look over my shoulder for my mother--in-law. Call me Leigh Anne or Mama or almost anything else.
michael		Will you help get me something?
leigh anne		What?
michael		Driver's license.
leigh anne		Why do you need a driver's license when you don't have a car?
michael		You have a car.
leigh anne		That I use to haul y'all all over creation with. He doesn't say anything but doesn't leave either. Leigh Anne puts down the swatches, turns to him..
michael		Something to carry. With my name on it. She locks eyes with him. This time he holds her gaze.
dmv employee		Is this his address as well?
leigh anne		Yes. He lives with us.
dmv employee		Are y'all his foster parents?
leigh anne		No.
dmv employee		His legal guardians?
leigh anne		oh... no. The Employee does a search on the computer. As she types...
dmv employee		Does he have a Social Security card? Leigh Anne looks to Michael, who shakes his head.
leigh anne		We tried to find one for school, but...
leigh anne		How big a problem is this? DMV Employee looks to Leigh Anne.
dmv employee		There's nobody named Michael Oher in the system. Another last name perhaps? Leigh Anne again turns to Michael, who shrugs.
leigh anne		Look, I'll sign something saying he lives with us and we'll pay for the insurance; whatever it takes.  What's it gonna take? Off the Employee's look --
sean		You wanna do what?!
leigh anne		Don't pretend you didn't hear me.
sean		Shouldn't we at least talk about it?
leigh anne		What do you think we're doing? And don't act like I'm going behind your back. I know you put us down as his medical contact at school.
sean		There's a big difference between paying for a broken arm and being legally responsible for someone. Someone we barely know.
leigh anne		And that's another thing. We have to find out more about his past.
sean		He won't talk about it. He's like an onion; you have to peel it a layer at a time.
leigh anne		Not if you use a knife. What if we sent him to a child psychologist?
sean		Do you really expect Big Mike --
sean		-- expect Michael to lie down and talk about his childhood like he's Woody Allen or something? Michael's gift is his ability to forget. He's mad at no one and doesn't really care what happened in the past. This puts her on her heels.
sean		(like he's never heard
leigh anne		Like vinegar. She moves to him, holds him.
sean		Alright.
leigh anne		"Alright" you'll think about it or "alright" we should do it?
sean		Is there a difference?
to		She hangs up and, exasperated by the wait, rises and walks a counter, pushing past someone --
employee		I'm sure you would. How can I help you? She turns to the man waiting behind her.
leigh anne		He was first.
employee		Me, too.
employee		Ma'am, you can tell me what you want or I'll make sure you wait all day. How. Can. I. Help. You?
leigh anne		I'd like to become a legal guardian.
employee		Lord look over that child.
ronald		There's very little on Michael. Most of his files have been lost.
leigh anne		What is in there?
ronald		A few case notes.  This one describes an incident where officers forcibly removed Michael and six half-siblings from Denise Oher's care when Michael was seven. Quite a scene evidently. They had to split up the kids. And it's far from the worst.
leigh anne		Where is she? His mother?
ronald		Dunno, but if you find her we have a bunch more files we could add to.
leigh anne		How many children does she have?
ronald		At least a dozen, probably more. With her drug arrest record my guess would be she can't even remember. Leigh Anne absorbs this.
leigh anne		We'd need her permission though, .right?
ronald		No. Michael is a ward of the state. Just apply and get a Judge to sign off on it.
leigh anne		So you would give him away without even telling his mother? Ronald shrugs.
leigh anne		I'm looking for Denise Oher.
alton		Dee Dee don't stay there no more.
leigh anne		Do you know where she might be?
alton		Chances are she ain't gone far.
leigh anne		No, I can't, but thank you.
leigh anne		Hi. Mrs. Oher?
denise oher		You from the state?
leigh anne		No. My. name is Leigh Anne Tuohy and your son Michael lives with me. And my family. Denise takes this in.
denise oher		Awhile back. This is temporary. Friends let me stay here.
leigh anne		When did you last see Michael?
denise oher		Iono. We might have some wine in the kitchen, if...
leigh anne		No, no that's very kind but...
denise oher		How many foster kids you got living with you?
leigh anne		Oh, I'm not a foster parent to Michael. We were just helping him out.
denise oher		State don't pay you nothing?
leigh anne		No.
denise oher		And he lives with you?  And you feed him?.
leigh anne		When I can find them in his size.
denise oher		You a fine Christian lady.
leigh anne		I try to be.
denise oher		This is all real nice what you're doing, but don't be surprised if one day you wake up and he gone.
leigh anne		What do you mean?
denise oher		He's a "runner". That's what the state called him after they took him from me.  Every foster home they sent him to, he'd slip out the window at night and come looking for me. No matter where I was that boy would come find me, take care of me.
leigh anne		Mrs. Oher, was Michael born under a different name? Denise tries to remember. After a few seconds...
denise oher		Proctor. That was his Daddy's last name.
leigh anne		Where is he, the father, if you don't mind me asking?
denise oher		Ain't. seen him since he left.
leigh anne		And when was that?
denise oher		Week after Mike was born.
leigh anne		Do you have Michael's birth certificate? Denise sighs, looks around at the mess, shakes her head. And then, unexpectedly, starts to cry softly.
denise oher		No... Not this way.
leigh anne		People lose birth certificates. It's nothing to be ashamed of.
denise oher		It's Williams.  His last name's Williams. Couldn't even remember who the boy's father is. Leigh Anne bites her lip'and puts her arms around Denise, who hugs back.
sean		Michael, we have something to ask you.
michael		What?
sean		Leigh. Anne and I would like to become your legal guardians.
michael		What's that mean?
leigh anne		Well, what it means is, we want to know if you'd like to be a part of this family? Michael looks to a grinning SJ, to Collins who nods and smiles, then to Leigh Anne...
michael		I kinda thought I already was.
sean		Is that the one you wanted? He just stands there, staring. Sean hands him the keys.
si		Can I go, too?
leigh anne		okay, but Michael?...  Be careful. Michael smiles and he and SJ get inside the truck.
collins		He wanted a truck?!
sean		Michael thinks he's a redneck.
michael		Tenth grade tough?
steven		Naw.  This really yours?
michael		Yeah.
steven		They just give it to ya'?
michael		Yeah. After a beat...
steven		You're right. white people are crazy. And they walk off together to class.
bob		You are now seniors. Congratulations. But with that distinction comes responsibility. This will be one of your tougher courses because my job is to prepare you, at least most of you, for the rigors of college Freshman English. You are each holding a class study guide which details assignments. I won't remind you what is due and when. Read the materials and come prepared. At the end of the year you will each choose one of our literature assignments and present a written dissection of the piece. The faces in the classroom tell us this is a tough course.
si		See, you're the ketchup, here at Left Tackle. On the weakside.
michael		I'm not that weak, SJ.
si		it just means there are more blockers on the other side. It's a compliment, really.
michael		A compliment for a condiment.
leigh anne		What is going on here?!
michael		Cinnamon just scored.
si		We're going through the playbook. Michael got moved to offense..
leigh anne		Well, when you're finished, put the players back in the spice cabinet.
sj		No problem. Actually, Mom, we were waiting for you. The new Madden came out and me and Michael want to go get it.
leigh anne		Honey, I've got a meeting in ten minutes.
michael		I'll drive. off her look --
si		Look for Walker Street. That's where we take a left. Si finds a hip-hop station and they both groove to the beat, dancing in the seats.
leigh anne		This is not a twenty thousand dollar Oushak, Jerry. The borders are different widths, it's been altered. Leigh Anne's phone rings. As she answers
leigh anne		Michael! He looks up, sobbing.
michael		I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry!
leigh anne		Where's SJ?!
si		Mom, do you think the blood will come out of my shirt?
fireman		An airbag deploys at 200 miles per hour. Your son's too small to sit in the front seat.
leigh anne		He's okay, though, right?
fireman		Busted lip, some facial bruising.
leigh anne		Michael, it wasn't your fault. It could have happened to anybody.. He doesn't look up. She almost gasps when she notices -- HIS ARM - red, bleeding, a large burn from the wrist all the way up to the sleeve, which is also singed.
michael		I stopped it.
cotton		0her! You've got a hundred pounds on Collis and you can't keep him out of our backfield?!
leigh anne		What's. with the camera?
si		Michael does better when he can see what he's supposed to be doing.
cotton		Holding - left tackle! He gets right in Michael's face, grabs his jersey.
next play		At the snap of the ball Michael tries to pass protect, pushes the Defender who tries left, right, then slides past Michael and sacks the quarterback.
leigh anne		Gimme a minute, Bert.
cotton		We're in the middle of practice, Leigh Anne!
leigh anne		You can thank me later. Bert just watches as Leigh Anne walks straight to the huddle and pulls Michael aside. The other players turn to watch.
michael		Yes ma'am.
leigh anne		If anyone tried to get to me you would have stopped them, right?
michael		I stopped it. Leigh Anne points to the offense.
leigh anne		This team is your family. And you have to protect them --  --from those guys. She walks over and grabs the QB, pulls him out.
michael		What about Mr. Tuohy and Collins?
leigh anne		I suppose they can be on the team, too. Are you going to protect the family, Michael?
cotton		What'd you say to him?
leigh anne		You should get to know your
sean		So much for home field advantage.
leigh anne		You ever seen so many rednecks in one place?
sj		Nascar, not even close.
cotton		On the schedule it says this is a home game but don't be deceived, gentlemen. Three fourths of the people in the stands are here from Milford. They'll be loud and rowdy and a lot of 'em drunk. Keep your helmets on 'til you're on the sidelines. I don't want anyone getting beaned with a whiskey bottle.
jay collis		Pay 'em back on the field. Coach Cotton raises a hand and the team moves forward to squeeze through an entrance onto the field. Above them Milford fans look down and jeer, toss sodas at them.
milford dad		Damn, that ain't fair! They got a big ole' black bear playing for 'em! What is this, a circus?!  IN THE STANDS
leigh anne		SJ, eyes forward! Sticks and stones...
cotton		Let's go 0! The offense runs onto the field and huddles. The Milford defense waits, slapping each other and building to a frenzy. Number 66 from before is the defensive end on Michael's side. Wingate breaks huddle and #66 sees him.
leigh anne		Come on, Michael!
referee		Fourth down ! The crusaders offense leaves the field. #66 follows behind Michael, taunting him.
cotton		Get back to your own bench, 66! 66 laughs and struts away. Cotton goes straight to the ref.
referee		Ever heard of the First amendment, Coach? Get back to the sideline. Cotton takes a deep breath, then turns to Michael, who has been beside him the whole time.
cotton		Look, son, 66 is quick, so just focus on his belt buckle.
leigh anne		Enough with the trick plays, Bert. Just run the dang ball.
milford dad		That's my boy Jimmy, number 66. He is kicking that blue gum's ass! Leigh Anne can't restrain herself. She rises, turns
leigh anne		Hey crotch mouth! Yeah, you! Zip it or I'll come zip it for ya! Sean pulls her back down to her seat.
si		Sticks and stones?
cotton		It's all right. Settle down.
cotton		Ref, you gonna do something about this?! He kicked my boy in the head and cussed him! The Ref throws a flag.
referee		Unsportsmanlike conduct on Wingate! Fifteen yards. Shut up or you'll get another fifteen.
cotton		What happened to the first Amendment?! Cotton throws his hat and another ref throws a flag.
michael		Don't worry, Coach. I got your back. Cotton cools down. Michael trots out onto the field. Halfway there he stops, looks back at Cotton and smiles.
michael		Try Gap.
tony		Coach called a pass.
michael		Gap.
collins		Way to go big bro! A referee signals touchdown then notices Michael walking back and 66 lying slumped at the fence. The Ref throws a flag.
cotton		Now what?! Was he holding?
referee		Uh, no.
cotton		Did he hit after the whistle?
referee		I don't believe so.
cotton		Then what's the flag for?
referee		I dunno... . Excessive blocking.
cotton		You're kidding me. The Referee ignores and returns to the field to assess the penalty. 66, now on his feet, limps back onto the field. Michael looks at him and 66's eyes go straight to the dirt. Cotton walks up to Michael.
michael		Sorry, Coach. I stopped when I heard the whistle.
cotton		Where were you taking him, Mike?
michael		To the bus. It was time for him to go home. Cotton smiles proudly and slaps Michael on the ass.
cotton		Attaboy, Michael Oher. Attaboy!
leigh anne		See number seventy-four? Well, that's MY son.! The Milford fans don't know what to make of this. Leigh Anne sits down with a self-satisfied smile.
secretary		Tom Lemming Recruiting, please hold... Tom Lemming Recruiting, please hold... And land on TOM LEMMING, the foremost college talent forecaster in the country.
secretary		Coach Saban wants his Fed Exed.
tom lemming		Does he really think getting it one day early is gonna give LSU a leg up? An ASSISTANT hurries up.
assistant		Have you filled all the slots for the Army All Star Game?
tom lemming		Yeah, why? The assistant hands over the distinctive DVD marked MICHAEL
assistant		You might want to open one up.
tom lemming		Every year there are a dozen running backs in the high school ranks who will make it to the NFL. Quarterbacks maybe three or four. But left tackles, true left tackles, they're freaks, gifts from the gods. A great one only comes around every four or five years. Mike's the best I've seen in ten.
cotton		You're kidding?
tom lemming		I don't kid about guys who'll get fifty million or more to play football.
cotton		And you think that could be Michael?
tom lemming		Oh, yeah. The embarrassing thing is it's my business to know every prospect in the nation but if you hadn't sent me that DVD I would have never heard of him.
sean		What DVD? I didn't send a DVD.
tom lemming		You're Sean Tuohy, right? Sean "gets it", trades a look with Cotton.
sean		Si.
tom lemming		Wow. Just wow. Lemming breaks out a measuring tape and smiles.
cotton		Tom Lemming runs the biggest recruiting service in the nation. He practically created an industry. Every college coach subscribes to his newsletter. One word from him and... This is big, Sean.
tom lemming		Mike, I came all the way from Chicago just to see for myself. And now that I have, I'd like to extend to you an invitation to play in the Army High School All American game at the end of the season. He places an application on the desk. Michael stares at it.
tom lemming		I don't want to offend but... does Mike have special needs?
sean		Well, he eats a lot.
tom lemming		No, I meant, is he mentally... off?
sean		No, no, he's just...
cotton		Shy. Really shy.
tom lemming		Because the only thing he said to me was "No." Said it three times; every time I asked him if he'd like to play in the Army All Star game. I get lobbied by every player, every father, every coach to get into this game.  Let me know if he changes his mind. Lemming walks away. After he's gone, Michael emerges.
sean		Why didn't you fill out the application, Michael?
michael		I don't wanna join the Army. Sean and Coach Cotton crack up.
phil fulmer		I want him! I want him bad.
leigh anne		Kick higher, Collins. Point your toes! Leigh Anne notices Fulmer.
fulmer		Drove all the way from Knoxville to come see for myself. Leigh Anne slides in near the group so she can eavesdro
cotton		Coach Fulmer, it's a real honor.
fulmer		Coach Cotton I been keeping an eye on your program. Y'all doing a fine job down here. Wouldn't be a bit surprised to see you coaching at the next level real soon. Cotton's smile tells us he'd like that a lot.
leigh anne		It's Oher. Like a paddle in a boat. Fulmer notices Leigh Anne, grunts then turns back to Cotton.
fulmer		If you could run him through a few drills, we'd sure appreciate it.. .Cotton gives Leigh Anne a look that says, "get out of here." She shakes her head -- "I'm not going anywhere." Cotton blows his whistle and the team approaches.
fulmer		 Force equals mass times acceleration. Then, all at once, the coaches pull out their cell phones and start poking digits and jabbering: "You won't believe it!" "You gotta see this!" "He's a freak of nature!" The Clemson coach strides away.
cotton		Where are you going, Coach?
clemson coach		Back to South Carolina. I've seen more than enough. If he can qualify with his grades you tell Michael Oher that Clemson wants him.
fulmer		Good luck with that, Brad! Fulmer smiles wide then turns to look once more at Michael.
leigh anne		Did you know that to be eligible for a Division One scholarship
sean		Really?
leigh anne		His ACT is low and I don't see him doing any better if he retakes it.
sean		What's his GPA now?
sean		Not bad really, when you consider where he started.
leigh anne		He needs to make A's this year.  I'm serious. And that might not even be enough.
sean		So he goes to Junior College.
leigh anne		Most inner city kids that go to JC drop out in a year. His shot at the pros would go out the window.
sean		Pros? Are we even sure he's gonna get college offers? She walks over to the answering machine, presses "Play."
sean		Phil Fulmer, from Tennessee?
leigh anne		There are twenty more. She holds up a stack of mail - envelopes and Fed Exes.
sean		Any from Ole Miss?
leigh anne		They won't recruit until they hire a new coach. But none of it matters unless he makes his grades.
sean		So, what do we do?
leigh anne		So here's the plan. E-mail me all assignments and let me know what Michael has to do to make an "A". There is laughter in the room.
leigh anne		I understand that you applied for a teaching position at Wingate?
miss sue		I wasn't religious enough for 'em. I'm a spiritual person, Mrs. Tuohy, but I have certain,. shall we say... doubts.
leigh anne		I appreciate your honesty, Miss Sue.
miss sue		What's the situation with Michael?
leigh anne		He needs to do better in school.
miss sue		Obviously. But why the big push?
leigh anne		He's in line for a football scholarship if he gets his grades up.
miss sue		Is he considering Ole Miss?
leigh anne		He'd better be.
miss sue		I'd love to work with him.
leigh anne		When do you want to start?
miss sue		Mrs. Tuohy there's something you should know about me. I don't tell many people, but it's something I feel you should be aware of before you hire me.
leigh anne		What's that?
miss sue		I'm a Democrat.
michael		I don't understand it.
miss sue		Yet. You don't understand it yet. How big is your head, Michael?
michael		Big.
miss sue		And what's in there?
michael		A brain.
miss sue		A brain. Full of knowledge - like a file cabinet with maps; shortcuts for figuring things out. You will learn this, Michael Oher because I'm here to help you use those maps and reach your destination. Like Sacagawea helped Lewis and Clark.
miss sue		We'll get to that. And the history books have it wrong, but all you need to you know is that I'll get you there. Do you believe me? Do you trust me, Michael?
michael		Yes, Miss Sue.
miss sue		Try it again. He goes back to the book.
sean		Who'd a thought we'd have a black son before we knew a Democrat.
nick saban		And you must be Leigh Anne.
leigh anne		Yes, Coach Saban, that's me. Leigh Anne. Touhy.
nick saban		Please, call me Nick. What an incredible home. Love the Windsor valances.
nick saban		Let's just say I appreciate quality. Michael and SJ walk in.
leigh anne		Nick, why don't you and Michael go into the living room to talk.
michael		Can SJ come?
saban		Absolutely. I'll recruit the both of you. As they walk away, Collins approaches...
leigh anne		I find him extremely handsome.
saban		So, as soon as possible we'd like to get you down to Baton Rouge. We've got a great thing going, Michael and we plan on winning a bunch more National Championships. Whattaya' say, will you commit to a visit? Michael turns to SJ, who raises his hand.
si		Can I ask a question?
saban		Sure.
sj		My brother and me are very close. I'm worried that if he goes off to school I won't see him so...
saban		Go on.
si		I guess I was just wondering how much access I'd have to him. Saban smiles at the kid's moxie.
saban		Tell you what, SJ. Michael comes to LSU I'll get you an all-access pass. How's that sound?
sj		Sounds good.
miss sue		You know this stuff. Just be logical.
nutt		Hi, I'm Houston Nutt from Arkansas.
fulmer		This is a beautiful home, Ma'am. He is startled to see -- Michael, in briefs, racing down the stairs, carrying Collins, who is holding his pants away from him.
si		What level of access can I expect?
tommy tuberville		Your own locker right next to Michael's.
lou holtz		 A Gamecock headdress. Real feathers.
phil fulmer		We'll run arm in arm onto the field and you can do the coin toss thingie at the first game.
si		Sounds real good.
miss sue		Have you decided yet, Michael?
michael		No, Miss Sue.
miss sue		But you like Tennessee?  They work with the FBI to study the effects of the soil on decomposing body parts. Michael is a bit lost.
leigh anne		Congrats on gettin' hired, Coach.
ed orgeron		Thank yew, Ma'am. Ole Miss is my dream job.
leigh anne		Coach 0, you're coming a little late to the party but we're diehard Rebels so I'm gonna give you a frickin' road map, okay?
ed orgeron		Yes 'm.
leigh anne		LSU is out. Everybody knows Saban's going to the NFL. So when he comes for his visit to Ole Miss, don't take him to some titty bar and give him tequila shots. He'll have nightmares for weeks. Feed him Italian - he likes Fettucine Alfredo - take him to a movie - but not Chainsaw massacre because he'll just cover his eyes - and put him to bed by ten. You got it?
ed orgeron		Yes'm. What about Tennessee?
leigh anne		It breaks my heart but they're still in the hunt. Fulmer offered SJ a sweet deal.
ed orgeron		I hear the kid can really pepper the gumbo.
leigh anne		He's his daddy's boy.
ed orgeron		You a Ole Miss tackle, son. I'm buildin' my line, buildin' my team aroun' you. Make your parents proud, come to Oxford, get that sheepskin and help us win the SEC. Michael nods, turns to SJ. Before SJ can raise his hand --
si		 Seen it a thousand times.
ed orgeron		Ever seen it from the front of the line? Next year, you and me -- leading the team.
si		Tennessee offered to let me run on the field and flip the coin.
ed orgeron		I'll throw in a sideline pass. Si considers this, smiles and nods.
fulmer		This stinks to high heaven.
bob		I will not give a student a grade he, or she, doesn't deserve.
leigh anne		He needs a B. What's he gonna have to do to "deserve" that?
bob		Right now Michael's doing C minus, D plus work. His best chance at improving is with the written essay at the end of the year. It counts for a third of his grade.
leigh anne		That's it. We're sunk.
miss sue		Why not write about "Great Expectations"? You're a lot like Pip. He was poor, an orphan and someone sort of found him. You should be able to relate to that. Michael shrugs. Sean is nearby, watching NBA basketball.
sean		 "Half a league, half a league, half a league onward." I love that one.
miss sue		Fine, you do this and I'll watch basketball. Miss Sue walks over, takes the remote from Sean, who rises.
sean		"All in the valley of Death rode the six hundred". They call LSU's stadium Death Valley because of this story. Alfred, Lord Tennyson is writing about Ole Miss-LSU.
michael		You're kidding?
sean		No. It's a great story.
miss sue		It's a poem.
sean		"Forward the Light Brigade!" That's like the offense. "Charge for the guns'he said." That's the end zone. "Into the Valley of Death rode the six hundred." He knows it by heart and even miss Sue is impressed.
michael		Someone made a mistake?
michael		Why would they go ahead if they knew he messed up?
sean		"Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die: Into the Valley of Death rode the six hundred."
michael		They all gonna die, aren't they?
sean		Yeah.
michael		That's really, really sad.
sean		I think you just found something to write about. Michael opens his notebook, picks up a pen.
sean		Wait a minute. You broke into the principal's computer?
leigh anne		Scanned it off an Internet ad for a toddler boutique.  Tell a soul and I'll rip your tongue out. IN THE CROWD: The Tuohys, Big Tony, Miss Sue, Bob and the other teachers all clap.
sean		I want you to know something. You'n me, okay?
leigh anne		Excuse me young man, but I think I need a proper hug. He smiles and moves to her. Off their embrace
leigh anne		You'll be living in Deaton Hall -- here. You'll have a meal plan and you'll go to Johnson commons to eat.
michael		As much as you want?
sean		Yep, that's how Mama put on her freshman ten. Leigh Anne rolls up a pamphlet and whacks him hard on her way to answer a RINGING PHONE.
leigh anne		Hello... This is Mrs. Tuohy... As she listens she gives Sean a look - "This isn't good". 184 INT. BUttDING HALLWAY - DAY 184 Leigh Anne walks with Michael.
leigh anne		They just want to ask you a few questions. You've got nothing to hide, Michael. They arrive at a door, open it.
granger		Mrs. Tuohy? Mr. Oher? My name is Jocelyn Granger and I'm the Assistant Director of Enforcement for the NCAA.
leigh anne		Please call me Leigh Anne. Leigh Anne shakes her hand and she and Michael move to the chairs.
granger		Mrs. Tuohy, I'd prefer to speak with Michael alone.
leigh anne		How long will this take?
granger		Awhile. Michael starts rubbing his knees, nervous as hell.
leigh anne		Michael, I'll be outside. Leigh Anne pecks his cheek and exits, giving Michael one last look before she leaves.
leigh anne		I've got a bad feeling about this, Sean. This broad is tough. Oh,. Susie's on the other line.
granger		Your parents are friends with Coach Bert Cotton, correct?
michael		Coach is a good guy.
granger		Were you aware that Coach Cotton is accepting a job at Ole Miss?  Sean Tuohy, your legal guardian went to Ole Miss.
michael		He played basketball.
granger		And Mrs. Tuohy attended Ole Miss as well.
michael		She was a cheerleader.
granger		Is it safe to say that Ole Miss is their favorite school?
michael		They can't stand Tennessee.
granger		So they wouldn't be happy if you chose to play football there?
michael		No.
granger		And your tutor...
michael		Miss Sue.
granger		Miss Sue is an Ole Miss grad, too.
michael		What's that mean?
granger		A booster is someone with an abnormal interest in a school's sports. Someone who-contributes financially to the University's athletic program. Michael doesn't answer, just keeps rubbing his knees. Then comes the part we've heard before...'
granger		Do you know, do you understand why I'm here?
granger		Yes. To investigate. I'm here to investigate your odd... predicament. Do you find it odd? Your predicament?
michael		Iono... she sifts through her briefcase, pulls out files, documents - a good bit of evidence for whatever trouble Michael is in. She sits back, stares at Michael, as if trying to figure him out. Michael can't meet her gaze. He looks out the window, rubs his knees some more.
michael		What do you want, ma'am?
granger		What I want, what my job is, is to discern whether something untoward occurred in your recruitment to Ole Miss.
michael		Unto...
granger		I want the facts. I need the truth.
michael		I didn't lie...
granger		And I want to know what you think about all this.
granger		The NCAA fears that with your recruitment a door might be opened that boosters from lots of schools in the south will become legal guardians for young athletes without means and funnel them to their Alma Maters. Michael still doesn't get it, shakes his head.
michael		 No...no...no...
granger		-- bought you a car and paid for a tutor all as part of a plan to insure that you played football for the University of Mississippi. Now Michael understands. He stares at the floor for a long time then quickly stands and makes for the door.
leigh anne		Michael, what's wrong? He looks at her, glares really; upset.
michael		Why'd you do it?
leigh anne		What?
michael		All along you wanted me to go to Ole Miss.
leigh anne		Well, of course, but...
michael		Why did you do this for me?!
leigh anne		What?
michael		Everything! Was it for you or was it for me? Was it so I would go to school where you wanted?! Was it so I would do what you wanted?!
leigh anne		No, Michael...
michael		 Don't you dare lie to me! Leigh Anne digests this, takes a breath...
leigh anne		Michael, look... I can see where, where some people might... Her inability, for the first time, to articulate, hits Michael in the face.
michael		I'm not stupid! He turns and walks away.
leigh anne		Michael?! But she doesn't move, just watches him go.
leigh anne		 Well if he comes by there let me know. Thanks.
leigh anne		Text him SJ.
sean		Keep it light. Tell him you're gonna take his truck for a spin if he doesn't get in touch. SJ starts texting. Leigh Anne and Sean stare at each other.
leigh anne		I should have followed him.
sean		You had no way of knowing he'd disappear.
leigh anne		Was he right?  What he said about us?
sean		Leigh Anne, be sensible. We gave clothes to a boy who had one pair of shorts. We gave him a bed. To hell with the NCAA, I'd do it again tomorrow.
leigh anne		What about the rest of it - all the stuff we did to make sure he got a scholarship? A scholarship to Ole Miss.
sean		He could go wherever he wanted, he knew that.
leigh anne		Did he? Did you ask him? 'Cause I know for sure I never did. Sean considers this, then beckons.
sean		Come here, honey. She moves to him. He puts his arm around her, kisses her forehead.
leigh anne		Am I a good person?  Not a joke. Not rhetorical.
sean		You're the best person I know. Everything you do, you do for others.
leigh anne		Why is that?
sean		 I have not a clue. You obviously get some sick satisfaction from it. She looks at him. There's truth in his words.
leigh anne		Sean... what if he never comes back?
alton		That you Big Mike? Get your ass in here.
michael		I'm looking for Moms.
alton		Your Mama? Oh, I seen Dee Dee around. She usually stop by for a taste around this time. Tell you what, I'll get you a forty and we'll chop it up 'til she get here. Michael hesitates. Alton smiles, beckons.
alton		It's good to see you, Big Mike. You lookin' fit. I heard you playin' some ball.
michael		Yeah.
alton		But you know that rich kid football ain't like the public school league. People packing knives in their socks. Back in the day I was a quarterback. You knew that, right? At MLK.
michael		Yeah, I heard.
david		Naw.
alton		He with me now! I'll open a spot for you, too.
david		Got tired of going to class. Always somebody tellin' me what to do.
alton		Turn it up, bitch! David jumps up and cranks the volume on a RAP SONG until the beat is bouncing off the walls. Michael sips the beer; rubs his knees.
michael		She came here?
alton		She got any other kids? She got a daughter?
michael		Shut up. Alton steps in front of Michael, raises his hands ---
alton		Shutup?You tellin' me to shut up?I'llcap your fat ass. Cap yourass,drive east and pay a visittoyour Cracker Mama and her
alton		He gone. Leigh Anne stops, looks to Alton.
leigh anne		Michael was here?
alton		Last night. Sneaked me then took off like a little bitch. So you tell him, sleep with one eye open. Yod'hear me, bitch?' Leigh Anne steps closer to Alton, stares him down.
leigh anne		No, you hear me, bitch. You threaten my son you threaten me. You so much as cross downtown you'll be sorry. I'm in a prayer group with the D.A., I'm a member of the NRA and I am always packing.
alton		What you got in there, a .22? You got yourself a Saturday Night Special?
leigh anne		And it shoots just fine all the other days, too. She turns on her heels and strides to her car.
leigh anne		Michael?!!!
michael's voice		Mama?...
leigh anne		I'd imagine the last thing anybody at Hurt Village wants is cops snooping around.  I swore I'd never ask but... how'd you make it out of there, Michael?
michael		When I was little and something awful was happening, my Mama would tell me to close my eyes.
michael		I'm pretty good at it.
leigh anne		Yeah, you are.
michael		Every game?
leigh anne		But I will not wear that gaudy orange of theirs because it's not in my color wheel.
michael		You want me to go to Tennessee?
leigh anne		I want you to go wherever you want. It's your decision, Michael. It's your life.
michael		Okay.
leigh anne		Okay, what?
michael		I'm sorry I left the other day.
granger		You were pretty upset.
michael		You ask a lot of questions.
granger		I'm trying to get to the bottom of this.
michael		But all the questions you asked were about why everybody else wanted me to go to Ole Miss.
granger		Okay...
michael		You asked about everybody but me. You never asked why I wanted to go there.
granger		Alright, fine, Michael... why do you want to go to Ole Miss?
michael		It's where my family goes to school. It's where they've always gone to school. Granger considers this, stares at Michael, then almost, just almost, smiles.
leigh anne		College is going to be a different experience for you. There are lots of distractions.
sean		Just have fun.
leigh anne		There'll always be some nimrod in the dorm who wants to play video games all night, or goof off on the internet.
sean		You're gonna have a great time. I know I did. Leigh Anne gives Sean a look - "You're not helping."
leigh anne		You'll spend lots of time at practice which means you have to be very dedicated to your studies.
leigh anne		Thank you, Miss Sue.
miss sue		Yeah, yeah, yeah... Sean and Michael and SJ eye a GROUP OF ATTRACTIVE COEDS sashaying past. SJ does a little dance move and laughs.
sean		Have a lot of fun. Leigh Anne notices their looks.
leigh anne		Michael Oher, you listen to me. I want you to enjoy yourself but you need to know that if you get a girl pregnant out of wedlock I will climb in the car, drive here to Oxford and cut off your penis.
si		 She means it.
michael		Yes ma'am. Leigh Anne gives Sean a look that says, "let's get on the road." Sean offers a hand; Michael shakes it. Collins high fives him. SJ offers a fist; Michael knocks it. Leigh Anne, tearing up, nods and gives Michael a quick hug.
leigh anne		The 78'll be a parking lot. We should go. She gets inside and closes the door for privacy. Sean, SJ, Collins and Michael stand there, watching her cry.
michael		Why does she always do that?
sean		She's an onion, Michael. You have to peel her one layer at a time. Michael walks over to the car, knocks on the window. She rolls it down, dabbing tears from her eyes.
leigh anne		What?
michael		I need a proper hug. She gets out of the car and holds him for a long time.
****Dialogues from script :Bling_Ring.txt****

shooting script		 White March 06, 2012 Blue Revision March 16, 2012
rebecca		Let's go shopping!
nicki		 I am a firm believer in Karma, and I think this situation was attracted into my life as a huge learning lesson for me to grow and expand as a spiritual human being. I see myself being like an Angelina Jolie, but even stronger, pushing even harder for the universe and peace and for the health of the planet. I want to lead a huge                             * charity organization. I want to                           * lead a country for all I know.                            *
cut to black		We hear an alarm clock go off. Title: 1 year earlier
sam		Oh my lord, you were so out of control last night.
nicki		What about you! You were all over that old guy, the manager...
sam		Oh yeah. He was totally perving out.
laurie		Girls! Time for your aderall! Let's go!
laurie		That's none of your concern, I'll handle it.
sam		Uh...late.
laurie		You know it's a school night.
nicki		We know...
laurie		Let's have our morning prayer and then we'll meet in the living room at eight to start today's lesson on the laws of attraction, OK?
laurie		Wahoo!
debbie		Have a great day.
marc		Thanks.
debbie		I hope you like it here. It always takes a little time to get settled in.
marc		Yeah. Ok, thanks, Mom.
school girl		I can't believe it, someone hacked into my account and changed my password to cheeze it.
school girl		Watch it.
rebecca		Hey, new kid.
marc		Yeah.
rebecca		He's the worst. He's a real perv.
marc		Oh ok, I'll watch out, thanks. He laughs, grateful to her for bonding.
rebecca		Where you headed?
marc		Gym, where's that?
rebecca		It's down here... Where are you from?
marc		Agoura Hills, but I was away for a year, did home school...
rebecca		Bummer. How'd you end up in the drop-out school?
marc		I got kicked out of the last school for too many absences. What about you?
rebecca		For having `substances' you're not suppose to have at school.
marc		Yeah, sure.
rebecca		I just have to graduate, so I can go to F.I.D.M. - Fashion Institute of Design, the Hills girls all went there.
marc		Cool, and then intern at Teen Vogue?
rebecca		Totes...and then have my own line, and fragrance, host a show...
marc		Yeah, I'd like to have my own lifestyle brand.
rebecca		Definitely.
beach girl		Yo wassup, Chloe.
chloe		Yo, Bitch.
beach girl		You going to Karly's later?
chloe		Maybe.
beach girl		Ok, see you.
chloe		Lates.
rebecca		My mom and her douchey husband are out of town, if you guys want to come over later?
sarah		It's Fifty.
kid		Oh c'mon.
sarah		You want it or not?
kid		Fuck off.
rebecca		I can't wait to get out of here.
marc		Is your mom away a lot?
rebecca		Yeah, she goes on trips a lot for work...
marc		For what?
rebecca		She has a chain of student tutoring centers...
marc		And you're at Indian Hills?
marc		Yeah, and the shoes are nice...but she needs to get some better extensions...
rebecca		I know, right? Are those Prada?
marc		No, Dior.
rebecca		Really?   Hey, what do your parents do?
marc		My mom doesn't work, my dad works for a film distribution company, they do a lot of stuff overseas.. REBECCA Oh cool, he's in the `biz'..
marc		Yeah...it's cool. I get to go to screenings and stuff.
rebecca		Nice...oh she's so cute.
marc		But enough with the patent leather accessories, they look cheap.
rebecca		Yeah, totes...
rebecca		Hey, wanna check some cars?
marc		What's that?
rebecca		 C'mon...
rebecca		Sweet. C'mon. They keep walking and she tries another few cars, until she finds another open door. She looks around and finds some cash and a credit card.
marc		No way!
rebecca		Let's go.
marc		That's crazy.
rebecca		Yeah, people leave them open with cash and credit cards...
rebecca		Want a ride?
rebecca		I love that mix you sent me.
marc		Oh, cool, anytime... Where are we going? REBECCA Wherever we want...
marc		Okay.
rebecca		Do you know anyone that's out of town?
marc		Uh, this kid Evan I met online, their family went to Jamaica, why?
rebecca		I went into an unlocked house a few weeks ago and found a bunch of cash....where does `Evan' live?
marc		Woodland hills.
rebecca		 How well do you know `Evan'?
marc		We met up a few times...he was pretty hot.
rebecca		This it?
marc		Uh huh.
marc		Fuck...I think we should get outta here.
rebecca		It's fine, it's fine...don't freak out.
marc		Uh, Sure.
rebecca		Oh, yeah.
marc		What is it.
marc		What the fuck?
marc		Where'd you get the keys?
rebecca		 I grabbed them on the way out.
wasted boy		Chloe, marry me!
chloe		Get in line.
rebecca		Sure.
chloe		Yo, Rob, what's up?
rob		Hey, Chloe - Come on in.
chloe		Is Ricky here?
rob		Yeah, he should be around. CUT TO:
chloe		Yo, sluts.
sam		Chlooeeee!
chloe		`sup...this is my homie, Marc.
nicki		Hi, I'm Nicki and this is Sam.
sam		Hey, Marc.
chloe		We used to go to school together.
marc		Are they sisters?
chloe		They've known each other since they were like three, they took Sam in, I don't know what happened to her mom.
nicki		Oh my god, Jude Law totally keeps texting me...I think I'm probably going to go meet him later. CHLOE Yeah, I'm sure you're really going to hesitate on that one.
nicki		Bitch, you're just jealous.
chloe		Suck my dick.
sam		You did text him like fifty times.
nicki		I did not.
sam		C'mon Chloe, where's that bottle service? Let's get that going.
ricky		Girls.
chloe		Ricky!
ricky		Hey, baby, you good? You guys have everything you need?
chloe		Uh huh.
ricky		Nicki, there are some photographers out here for fashion week you might want to meet.
nicki		Fo' sho! RICKY And this dope music manager, and some of the entourage producers- we've got a real party salad tonight.
chloe		 I'll check with you later, Boo.
marc		Oh my god, that's Paris Hilton.
nicki		Yeah, totally, she DJs sometimes...
chloe		I literally thought I was going to die.
rebecca		Homie...
marc		Yo, bitches.
chloe		Dawg, wassup?
marc		I thought you might want one.
rebecca		Oh, you're the best.
marc		Thanks.
marc		 Misha Barton got a DUI...Paris Hilton is hosting a party Thursday night at the Cosmopolitan in Vegas...
rebecca		Where does she live, can you find her house?
marc		2342 Briar Summit...
rebecca		Let's go there! Do you think we could find a way in?
rebecca		I bet she'd leave her keys under her mat.
marc		Oh my fucking god.
rebecca		They're her pet monkeys. Hi guys.
marc		Let's get the fuck out of here.
rebecca		It's fine, it's fine...let's keep going.
marc		She's so messy.
rebecca		You're tripping out. This is fine, it's ok, why are you tripping out?
rebecca		C'mon.
marc		Oh my fucking god.
nicki		No way, I totally want to go to Paris'!
rebecca		Yeah, it was sweet, we hung out in her night club room...I got this.
nicki		Oh my god, no way.
chloe		You are so sick! O.G. Motherfucker!
sam		No way, how'd you get in?
marc		Her key was under the mat, it was so chill, we just walked in.
rebecca		We can all go back, we just have to check when she's going out to something...
marc		Lindsay got another D.U.I... Here try this vest with that...
nicki		What do you think?
marc		Try your hair back.
sam		I don't know if I'd go that far.
nicki		Leopard and Zebra - seriously?
sam		What?
marc		Yeah, def, you can't wear zebra and leopard. You have to choose one.
sam		Ok, fine....at least I don't look like I'm thirty-five.
nicki		Let's go to Paris', c'mon,
nicki		 I didn't know what they were doing. I thought they were my friends...it all comes back to bad choices, who you have as your friends, and I know the truth will come out.
nicki		No way!
nicki		Look at all her Louboutins.
chloe		Her feet are big.
sam		"Ciao Paris, Keep the glamour alive! Un Bacio, Donatella."
rebecca		Sweet.
marc		We could sell these.
nicki		Let me see!
chloe		Oh shit!
sam		What's all over her?
marc		Some bad tanner...
nicki		What do you think? It's Herve Leger.
sam		There's actually an old dog turd in here.
nicki		Ew, put that back.
marc		C'mon let's get the fuck out of here.
rebecca		Alright, alright...in a sec.
nicki		Ciao!
chloe		Man, I was off the charts, it was craaazzay - they didn't know how I was driving let alone still alive.
rebecca		That's fucked up.
chloe		Yeah, I have to pick up trash for fucking forever...
marc		That sucks...
chloe		What are you guys doing later? REBECCA I don't know, there's a party at Madison's...I'll let you know, lates.
rebecca		C'mon Teacup.
marc		You can't take her dog.
rebecca		She likes me...and I could probably get like five hundred for her.
marc		Come on Rebecca, leave her dog, it would be too noticeable anyway.
rebecca		Yeah, I guess... bye Teacup.
rebecca		Shut the fuck up.
marc		Oh shit.  CUT TO:
audrina		Hot spots? Well, we love Lola's, we go there all the time, it's a Martini bar, and I like the Dime, and we always go to Les Deux, cause all our friends are always there...it's like the spot to go to.
audrina		 Uh, well, sure, a little...
rebecca		Oh my god, I literally love Audrina's style...can you see where she lives? Marc types in her name and a few things, and before you know it he has a photo and map of her house up on the screen.
marc		She's going to Demi & Ashton's Oscar party Sunday.
rebecca		Perfect.
rebecca		Wait. Who are you?
nicki		This is my little sister, Emily.
rebecca		Oh. How old are you?
emily		Thirteen.
rebecca		C'mon.
chloe		I'm staying on look-out.
nicki		I like this Rick Owens jacket.
rebecca		It's fine, it's fine.
marc		I think I heard someone.
rebecca		There's no one outside, calm the fuck down.
marc		I hear helicopters.
rebecca		We're in L.A., there are always helicopters...don't be such a little bitch.
sam		Ew, what are these oils for?
emily		Gross.
sam		What's Alprazolam?
nicki		Xanax.
sam		Oh good...
marc		Jesus Christ, let's hurry the fuck up.
nicki		Look what I found!
sam		Let me see that.
marc		Oh shit, be careful with that thing. Is it loaded?
sam		Maybe.
rob		It's nothing, Mom.
laurie		Girls, time for school!
sam		Her husband.
laurie		Ok. What else?
nicki		Her hot bod.
laurie		Ok, the bod is not a characteristic.
nicki		How long do we have to do this for?
laurie		Until we're finished with this and then we're going to do some flower essence work.
nicki		Water delivery.
rebecca		I want to get some Victoria Secret model clothes.
nicki		 Let's do it.
rebecca		You guys.
marc		What the fuck are you doing?
rebecca		I've got a new room at my Dad's in Vegas, I need some stuff to decorate it, I might stay with him a while...here, hold this.
marc		Are you fucking serious?
marc		If I ever became not your friend anymore, would you rob me?
rebecca		I would never do that to you.
starlet		I'm wearing Armani Privee.
journalist		And the jewelry?
starlet		My jewelry is by Chopard.
journalist		And what about your shoes?
starlet		Louboutins.
journalist		Well, you look beautiful, are you excited for tonight?
starlet		Thank you, yes, I'm so excited to be here.
marc		Oh one second, Mom.
marc		Ok, I'll be right there.
marc		Did you talk to Ricky about the Rolexes.
chloe		Yeah, yeah, he's got connects, bring them by later.
laurie		We look to the universe and Divine Spirit to show us the way. I am so grateful for this opportunity to have dinner together as a family. And so it is.
laurie		So, how did your audition go?
nicki		It was alright.
sam		I think it went really well, they said they want to do a test shoot.
laurie		That's good, that's good.
henry		What's it for?
sam		Axe body spray.
henry		Uh huh.
nicki		And we have a go-see for the BCBG runway show!
laurie		Great! That's a cute top, is that new?
nicki		Oh, yeah, our friend Marc, he's a stylist, he let us borrow some stuff for the auditions.
laurie		Oh, that's nice.
nicki		Yeah, his dad has a production company he helps style for.
laurie		Oh, what's it called?
nicki		I don't remember.
sam		Something -international?
emily		Mom, can I be excused?
laurie		Are you done?
emily		Yeah, and I want to finish my flower essences. LAURIE Ok, sweetie. I'm thinking about doing a silent retreat.
nicki		Uh, Mom, we have to get going, we're meeting this manager tonight who could be really helpful.
sam		Yeah, He knows a lot of photographers...and producers.
laurie		OK, OK, that sounds good. Just be back by eleven.
nicki		Uh huh.
sam		Yeah, right.
laurie		Eleven. It's a week night.
sam		 Eleven my ass.
sam		I know, I'd totally do him....but did you see how small his hands are?
nicki		Ew, no.
sam		Yeah, that could be gross.
nicki		Yeah.
sam		Dude, we have to get in that video...Does this look good?
nicki		Yeah, I mean, do you feel good in that?
sam		I just want to look hot, but not desperate.
nicki		Totally. I think you look hot. Let me see a different top...
sam		Does my butt look good in these jeans?
nicki		Your butt looks awesome.
chloe		Ricky, you remember Marc.
ricky		Sure, sure I do. Come on in, Marc. What can I do for you.
marc		Can you sell these?
ricky		Where'd you get them?
marc		Uh...I found them.
ricky		I see.
marc		What do you think, can you take them?
ricky		I don't know...I can see...tell you what, I'll give you five grand for them.
marc		Aren't they worth more?
ricky		Not stolen ones.
marc		Ok, yeah. Thanks. RICKY Sure, kid.
marc		Bye, Grandma.
grandma		Bye now.
nicki		Sexy biatch.
rob		How many times have you guys been up here?
marc		I think this is like the 5th time.
rob		And she never noticed?
rebecca		We never take enough for it to be obvious...and c'mon, it's Paris Hilton.
rob		She's so messy.
marc		I know, right?
rob		Here we go.
sam		Oh, shit.
marc		Or you could wear the Chloe sandals with this.
nicki		Oh, yeah.
marc		What?
marc		No fucking way, no fucking way.
marc		Oh my god.
nicki		Oh, shit. REBECCA  It's fine, it's fine, you can't see who it is.
marc		Oh my god.
marc		Everything's fine.
chloe		I'll probably go over to Sagebrush later...
rebecca		Cool, who's playing?
chloe		I don't know, I think some local bands...
rebecca		I want to go to Rachel Bilson's, she's in Paris for fashion week.
chloe		Don't you think you should chill out a little bit?
marc		Yeah, that news thing totally freaked me out.
rebecca		Nothing happened, there's no way you can tell who that is...C'mon, will you find her house for me, please?
marc		I don't know.
rebecca		C'mon, you're my best friend, please. Let's go get some stuff.
rebecca		We're going to Rachel Bilson's, wanna come?
rebecca		I don't know.
rebecca		C'mon.
rebecca		There aren't, just keep your hat on...and chill out. It's fine.
sam		She has so many Chanel bags.
nicki		I love this one!
sam		That's so cute.
marc		What are you doing in there?
rebecca		Don't freak out, let's go you guys.
marc		Oh my fucking god.
nicki		That was so close!
rebecca		Everything's cool, c'mon.
nicki		Hi. DOGWALKER Hello.
rebecca		You guys wait here, I'll get the car.
marc		That was fucked up.
nicki		I know!
sam		That's so cute. Did you get me one?
drunk girl		Yo, Becca.
rebecca		Yo.
drunk girl		I heard you went to Paris Hilton's.
rebecca		Yeah.
drunk girl		And you took some stuff.
rebecca		Lates.
chloe		Whores!
sam		Chloooee.
chloe		Where've you been tonight?
sam		We went to Rachel Bilson's house.
chloe		No fucking way!
nicki		Yeah. It was chill...
chloe		Sick! Some drunk party girl passing by chimes in.
party girl		You went to Rachel Bilson's?!
nicki		Yeah, she's in Paris at fashion week. We just went in...
party girl		Shut the fuck up.
chloe		I'm staying on look out.
marc		I don't think we should do this. If there are cameras, it's gonna be like Audrina's, it's gonna get out.
rebecca		C'mon, Lindsay's gone, I wanna do this, this is our opportunity.
marc		OK, but this is it.
marc		I don't know, I think we should get out of here.
rebecca		You're already here. You might as well come up and get something for yourself.
rebecca		Marc, do you like this dress, would this be good on me?
marc		Yeah, sure.
rebecca		Oh my god, this is the dress she wore to the Cosmopolitan opening!
nicki		Oh my god, that's so cute.
marc		When are you coming back from Vegas?
rebecca		I don't know, I'm just going to stay with my dad until things calm down with my mom...I need a change for awhile, I'll call you from there. Will you hold on to some of my stuff for me?
marc		Yeah, sure.
debbie		One minute...
man's voice		L.A.P.D. Open the door.
debbie		 You need to get dressed, they want you to come outside.
marc		Mom!
debbie		Whatever it is, we'll figure it out, honey.
cop		Are you Marc Hall?
marc		Yes... They handcuff Marc. The dogs bark, Marc's mom cries.
cop		Sir, I'm going to have to ask you to step aside.
laurie		Yes?
cop		Is this the residence of Nicolette Moore?
laurie		Yes, what is this about?
cop		We have a warrant to search your house. Everyone needs to come outside.
laurie		Girls-You need to come downstairs, now.
police officer		Ma'am, we need you to secure your animals.
emily		What is it?! Police go into her room to search.
police officer		We need you all to leave the premises and wait outside.
police officer		You have the right to remain silent.
nicki		I want a lawyer! Call my lawyer!
emily		What's going on?! Why are they taking her?! Sirens scream as they pull away.
laurie		Girls, we need to have a prayer circle right now. We need to center ourselves.
laurie		And so it is.
rebecca's mom		Hello, how can I help you?
police officer		Is this the home of Rebecca Ahn?
rebecca's mom		I'm her mother, but she's staying with her father in Nevada. POLICE OFFICER Ma'am, we'll need to get her current address.
ricky		What the fuck, man...
marc		We knew he was out of town through the internet, you'd google his name and see "Orlando Bloom is shooting a movie, he's with Miranda Kerr in New York." We walked in, it was unlocked, there was no alarm.
marc		Yeah, I've never even broken a window.
detective		How did you find the Rolexes?
marc		We found a safe at the bottom of a closet with the Rolexes and like five thousand dollars...I'll give everything back that I still have, and I'll find a way to repay them, I'm really sorry about what I did.
detective		Did you know Rebecca was leaving the state?
marc		I just thought she was going to stay at her dad's cause she wasn't getting along with her mom and step dad. DETECTIVE You didn't know she was crossing state lines with stolen property, and leaving you holding the bag?
marc		 I thought she was just visiting her dad.
rebecca		Yes.
detective		Do you understand your rights?
rebecca		Yes.
detective		Do you know why we're at your home serving a search warrant?
rebecca		Yes.
detective		Why do you think we're here?
rebecca		My friend Marc was arrested and he                  * called me from jail and told me the police had done a search warrant at his home.
detective		Do you know why?
rebecca		I've been watching TMZ and they've been saying I'm a `person of interest' in these burglaries.
detective		Were you involved in any of the burglaries to these celebrities?
rebecca		No, I wasn't.
detective		Is there going to be any property from any of those burglaries in this residence? REBECCA No.
detective		Have you been in any of the celebrity's homes that have been burglarized?
rebecca		No.
detective		Could any of your fingerprints of DNA be found in any of the victim's homes?
rebecca		No.
police officer		We've located a jacket and jeans that match the description by Lohan, and personal photographs of Paris Hilton.
rebecca		If I tell you where everything is, would you let me go? Hypothetically let's say I may know where this property is located and who has it, how could that help me? DETECTIVE The detectives on this case are trying to recover hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of property for the victims and I'm sure they would say if your cooperation helped them locate it.
rebecca		I want to help you out, but I don't want to do anything without talking to my attorney.
detective		Is this your marijuana?
rebecca		Yes, I have a prescription for it and bought it in California.
detective		You're being arrested for stolen property and L.A.P.D. detectives will be filing charges in their jurisdiction for burglary.
rebecca		Did you speak to any of the victims?
detective		I've spoken to all of the Victims.
rebecca		Really?! What did Lindsay say? CUT TO:
nicki		Oh my god!
laurie		This is crazy.
nicki		Does this look conservative, is this good?
sam		If you like a secretary-style hooker.
nicki		Shut Up.                                                *
sam		That's better...you need lower heels.
nicki		Oh, Yeah, where are my kitten heels...bitch, you're so fucking lucky you weren't on that video...
laurie		Nicki! Kate from Vanity Fair is here.
kate		What do your parents do?
nicki		My mom does a lot of things, she's a minister, she's been a masseuse, she's an energy healer...My dad is a director of photography on T.V. shows, he's been in the industry forever....
kate		And how is Sam related?
nicki		We've adopted her, we met in ballet class when we were little.
laurie		I was friends with her mother--
nicki		Mom, this is my interview. I met her when my parents divorced. Now she lives with us, my mom's home schooled us all for a while.
laurie		The philosophy of `The Secret', it's based on the law of attraction, but my great- grandmother and grandmother both studied this philosophy. It's man's relationship to the Divine, that's what energy science means.
nicki		Since I was young I learned about every religion. KATE So, Sam was in your ballet class, did she have parents?
nicki		She had a dysfunctional background, we both did...
laurie		And I met her mom--
nicki		Can I talk please?! The reason we related so well is my dad is a recovering alcoholic and Sam's mom is..
laurie		A practicing...
nicki		A practicing drug addict and alcoholic and our moms became best friends and...
laurie		And then she went off the deep end, she was on the verge--
nicki		Please! I told you that if you're going to be here you had to be quiet! That's why I didn't want you here because you talk!
kate		So, basically you took her in.
nicki		Yes, we took her in about 6 years ago.
shannon		But let's get back to Nicki.
kate		So Adam here told me you do charity work.
nicki		Yes, we do a lot of stuff through our church, it's Agape Church. LAURIE It's the religious science philosophy being taught at Agape Church.
nicki		My other sister, Gabby is on a trip with them now helping build homes. And they do a yearly trip to Africa where they build wells and schools for kids.
kate		Which country?
nicki		Uh, I can't remember exactly which country... We do bake sales and feeding the homeless, that kind of stuff.
kate		Ok, so it's a little bit of a disconnect with these positive pursuits and what's happening now.
adam		Nicki, I don't want you to answer that comment.
nicki		I think that I'm a firm... I have a good statement to say.
kate		She can speak generally.
nicki		I'm not gonna speak about the case, what I was going to say is that I'm a firm believer in karma and I think this situation was attracted into my life as a huge learning lesson for me to grow and expand as a spiritual human being.
laurie		Yes, she is.
shannon		We have gotten to know Nicki and her family and we feel Nicki is an extremely focused, honest person who has a lot to provide to the community. 
kate		What's your goal or life plan if you have one?
nicki		I do, I think my journey is to be a leader and push for peace and for the health of our planet--
shannon		Nicki has expressed to me a lot of her humanitarianism.
nicki		It's my main goal. God didn't give me these talents and what I look like to sit around and just be a model or famous. I want to do something people notice, that's why I'm studying business, so I can be a leader and take a stand for people.
marc		I met Rebecca in school after I moved back and went to Indian Hills, I went there because I had a lot of absences. I didn't want to go to school, I had a lot of self- loathing and anxiety issues, I felt that I was ugly...
kate		You're not ugly.
marc		I know I'm not ugly, but I never thought I was an A-list looking guy.I Went to Indian Hills to learn and be with my peers, I felt so self-conscious I didn't look as good as everyone else.
kate		And now you're a star.
marc		On my Facebook page recently I had 800 friends requests, I accepted them all, I didn't even look at them, then I noticed someone had created a fan page for me. If it had been for something I had done to help the community or benefit something I'd love it, but it's just kind of awkward for me that these people are loving me for something that's looked down on in society... It's kinda showing that America has some sick fascination with a Bonnie and Clyde kind of thing.
reporter		Could these teenagers be at the center of a celebrity crime spree? Police say they have stolen millions in cash, art and jewelry from the mansions of Orlando Bloom, Lindsay Lohan, Paris Hilton and countless other stars.
nicki		Can I have a 5 mg adderal.
laurie		Just remember what we went over with Shannon, they can't prove you were in any of those houses.
nicki		I know, mom.
emily		Mom, shouldn't we go?
nicki		Stop!
emily		Stop what?
nicki		Stop talking.
laurie		She's praying.
nicki		I know I'm always protected and karma cleanses my journey. Thank you Lord, so much for this truth. And so it is.
laurie		... You rock girl!                                    *
nicki		This is a very difficult time for myself and my family. Thank you for respecting my privacy, I look forward to my day in court. She does a flirtatious eye roll and saunters past the cameras in her kitten heels.
rebecca		Ok.
tv reporter		Rebecca Ahn and Marc Hall were both sentenced to 4 years in state prison. Chloe Taynor and Robert Hernandez were each sentenced to a year.
interviewer		We're here with Nicki Moore, who just served 30 days for her involvement in the Bling Ring, and shared a cell block with one of the victims- Lindsay Lohan. There were reports that Lindsay was crying, with you being next to her, did you actually hear any of this? NICKI I could hear her crying the first day, which is hard when you're trying to be strong, I just tried to really keep to myself..., I just tried to get through the day , the days are so long you're woken up at
interviewer		And how'd she look?
nicki		She got to keep her extensions in, most girls were talking about oh- I had to take my weave out...she was in orange like all of us...
interviewer		Were you nervous you were next to her because you were accused of being a part of that group that allegedly robbed her house.
nicki		Yeah, it was hard for me there were tabloids and on T.V.s in there people were watching the story and they were showing the surveillance video and stuff... and little do people know that when that video came out I was actually in contact with her manager to tell her who I believed the people were who robbed her house... and eventually when I'm able to tell my story people will know the truth.
interviewer		So that's nerve wracking she could think you robbed her house.
nicki		She could've, but you know...yeah...Anyway, you can follow everything about me and my journey at Nickimooreforever dot com.
****Dialogues from script :Blood_Simple.txt****

woman		...He gave me a little pearl-handled .38 for out first anniversary.
man		Uh-huh.
woman		...Figured I'd better leave before I used it on him. I don't know how you can stand him.
man		Well, I'm only an employee, I ain't married to him.
woman		Yeah...
woman		...I don't know. Sometimes I think there's something wrong with him. Like maybe he's sick? Mentally?... Or is it maybe me, do you think?
man		Listen, I ain't a marriage counselor. I don't know what goes on, I don't wanna know... But I like you. I always liked you...
man		...What're you gonna do in Houston?
woman		I'll figure something out... How come you offered to drive me in this mess?
man		I told you. I like you.
woman		See, I never knew that.
man		Well now you do.
woman		...Hell.
woman		Stop the car, Ray!
man		...Abby?
man		...You know that car?
woman		No.
man		What's the matter?
woman		I don't know... I just think maybe I'm making a mistake...
woman		...What was that back there?
man		Back where?
woman		Sign.
man		I don't know. Motel... Abby--
woman		Ray. Did you mean that, what you said before, or were you just being a gentleman?
man		Abby, I like you, but it's no point starting anything now.
woman		Yeah.
man		I mean, I ain't a marriage counselor--
woman		Yeah.
man		...What do you want to do?
woman		...What do you want to do?
ray		...Hello.
voice		Having a good time?
ray		...What? Who is this?
voice		I don't know, who's this?
voice		...You still there?
ray		Yeah, I'm still here.
abby		...Ray?
ray		Yeah.
abby		What was that?
ray		Your husband.
voice		I know a place you can get that framed.
marty		What did you take these for?
visser		What do you mean...
visser		...Just doin' my job.
marty		You called me, I knew they were there, so what do I need these for?
visser		Well, I don't know... Call it a fringe benefit.
marty		How long did you watch her?
visser		Most of the night...
visser		...They'd just rest a few minutes and then get started again. Quite something.
marty		You know in Greece they cut off the head of the messenger who brought bad news.
visser		Now that don't make much sense.
marty		No. It just made them feel better.
visser		Well first off, Julian, I don't know what the story is in Greece but in this state we got very definite laws about that...
visser		...Second place I ain't a messenger, I'm a private investigator. And third place--and most important--it ain't such bad news. I mean you thought he was a colored.  ...You're always assumin' the worst...
visser		...Anything else?
marty		Yeah, don't come by here any more. If I need you again I know which rock to turn over.
visser		That's good... "which rock to turn over"... that's very good...
visser		Well, gimme a call whenever you wanna cut off my head...
visser		...I can crawl around without it.
meurice		Hold it, hold it. What's tonight?
man		What?
meurice		What night is it?
man		 ...Friday?
meurice		Right. Friday night is Yankee night. Where're you from?
man		Lubbock?
meurice		Right. I'm from Detroit  It's a big city up north with tall buildings.
meurice		Where was I?
woman		You we telling me about the Ring of Fire.
meurice		Yeah, well, I may be getting in over my head here, I mean you're the geologist, but my theory for what it's worth, you got all these volcanoes and each time one pops it's the equivalent of what, twenty, thirty megatons of TNT?  Enough to light Las Vegas for how long?  How many years? Course, I'm no mathematician but--
marty		Meurice.
meurice		Yeah, I know. Pour 'em short.
marty		Has Ray come in yet?
meurice		No, he's off tonight. Where was he last night?
marty		 How would I know?
meurice		I don't know, didn't he call?
meurice		...Marty, I'd like you to meet an old friend of mine, Debra. Debra, this is Julian Marty, the dude I'm always talking about.
marty		If he does come in I'm not here... What were you drinking, Debra?
debra		Remy.
marty		You've got a very sophisticated palate.
debra		Thanks.
marty		Give Debra here another drink, and give me the usual.
debra		...What's a palate?
marty		Listen, I got tickets for the Oilers and the Rams next week in the Astrodome. Ever sat on the fifty yard line?
debra		I don't follow baseball.
marty		You won't have to. I'll explain what a palate is.
debra		You won't have to. I just wanted to see if you knew.
marty		What's this?
meurice		You said the usual--
marty		Red Label.
meurice		 Right. Sorry.
marty		Pour that back.
meurice		What.
marty		Don't throw that out.
meurice		Right.
marty		So how long have you know Meurice?
debra		About ten years.
marty		What--Waitaminute--What...
meurice		What.
marty		Deuce in the corner needs help.
meurice		Right.
marty		...So what're you doing tonight?
debra		Going out with Meurice.
marty		Tell him you have a headache.
debra		It'll pass.
marty		We don't seem to be communicating--
debra		You want to hustle me. I don't want to be hustled. It's as simple as that. Now that I've communicated, why don't you leave?
marty		I own the place.
debra		Christ, I'm getting bored.
marty		I'm not surprised, the company you've been keeping the last ten years.
marty		What's this?
meurice		What.
marty		 This.
meurice		Jack Daniels. Don't worry, I'm paying for it.
marty		That's not the point.
meurice		What's the point?
marty		The point is we don't serve niggers here.
meurice		Where?  ...I'm very careful about that.
marty		He thinks I'm kidding. Everybody thinks I'm kidding;  if Ray comes in I'm not home.
debra		Nice guy.
meurice		Not really. What'd you say your last name was?
abby's voice		Ray...?
ray		Yeah...
ray		...You get what you wanted?
abby's voice		Yeah. Let's get out of here.
ray		Why d'you wanna leave all this?
abby		You kidding? I don't wanna leave all this, I just wanna leave Marty...
abby		...Drive me to a motel?
ray		You can stay at my place, I'll drop you there.
abby		Where... where you going?
ray		See a guy.
abby		 Don't go to the bar, Ray. I know him, that ain't a good idea.
ray		I just gotta see a guy.
meurice		Howdy stranger.
ray		Meurice. Sorry I didn't show last night.
meurice		Wasn't too busy. You missed a good one, though. This white guy walks in about one o'clock, asks if we have a discount for alcoholics... I tell him to get lost, but Marty's sitting here listening and I can tell he's thinking that maybe it ain't such a bad idea...
meurice		...Ray, this is Debra. She's a geologist. That's the theory of rocks.
ray		Is Marty here?
meurice		Not here tonight. Wasn't here last night. He's especially not back in his office.
ray		 Thanks Meurice.
meurice		For what?
ray		Marty?
ray		...Well...? What?
marty		What "what"?
ray		Am I fired? You wanna hit me? What?
marty		I don't particularly want to talk to you.
ray		Well... if you're not gonna fire me I might as well quit.
marty		Fine. Suit yourself.  ...Having a good time?
ray		...I don't like this kind of talk.
marty		Then what'd you come here for?
ray		 You owe me for two weeks.
marty		Nope. She's an expensive piece of ass...
marty		...You get a refund though, if you tell me who else she's been sluicing.
ray		I want that money. If you wanna tell me something, fine--
marty		What're you, a fucking marriage counselor?
marty		What're you smiling at--I'm a funny guy, right, I'm an asshole? No, no, that's not what's funny. What's funny is her. What's funny is that I had you two followed because, if it isn't you, she's been sleeping with someone else...
marty		...What's really going to be funny is when she gives you that innocent look and says, What're you talking about, Ray, I haven't done anything funny...
marty		...But the funniest thing to me right now is that you think she came back here for you--*that's* what's funny.
marty		...Come on this property again and I'll be forced to shoot you...
marty		...Fair notice.
meurice		...I thought you were dead. Going home?
marty		No. I think I'll stay right here in hell.
meurice		 Kind of a bleak point of view there, isn't it Marty?
marty		Meurice...
marty		...I don't want that asshole near my money. I don't even want him in the bar.
meurice		We get a lot of assholes in here, Marty.
abby		Hello?
abby		...Marty?
ray		Who was it?
abby		What?
ray		On the phone. Was it for you?
abby		I don't know, he didn't say anything.
ray		Uh-huh. So how do you know it was a he?
abby		 You got a girl--am I screwing something up by being here?
ray		No, am I?
abby		...I can find a place tomorrow, then I'll be outta your hair.
ray		If that's what you want to do, then you oughta do it. You, uh... you want the bed or the couch?
abby		Well... the couch would be all right...
ray		You can sleep on the bed if you want.
abby		Well... I'm not gonna put you out of your bed...
ray		You wouldn't be putting me out.
abby		...Well, I'd be okay in here--
ray		Okay.
abby		Opal--
marty		 Lover-boy oughta lock his door...
marty		...Lotta nuts out there.
marty		Let's do it outside...
marty		...in nature.
ray		Like to have seen his face when he found the dead end.
teenager		Hey mister, how'd you break your pussyfinger?
visser		 Sorry sweetheart, my date is here...
visser		...She saw me rolling a cigarette and thought it was marijuana.  I guess she thought I was a swinger.
visser		Idnat wild?
visser		 Stick your finger up the wrong person's ass?
visser		You know a friend of mine broke his hand a while back. Put in a cast. Very next day he takes a fall, protects his bad hand, falls on his good one, breaks that too. So now he's got two busted flippers and I say to him "Creighton, I hope your wife loves you. 'Cause for the next five weeks you cannot wipe your own goddamn ass..."
visser		...That's the test, ain't it? Test of true love--
marty		Got a job for you.
visser		 ...Well, if the pay's right and it's legal I'll do it.
marty		It's not strictly legal.
visser		If the pay's right I'll do it.
marty		It's, uh... it's in reference to that gentleman and my wife. The more I think about it the more irritated I get.
visser		Yeah? Well how irritated are you?
visser		...Gee, I'm sorry to hear that. Can you tell me what you want me to do or is it a secret?
marty		Listen, I'm not--this isn't a joke here.
visser		You want me to kill 'em.
marty		I didn't say that.  Well?
visser		Well what?
marty		What do you think?
visser		You're an idiot.
marty		So, uh... this wouldn't interest you.
visser		I didn't say that. All I said was you're an idiot. Hell, you been thinking about it so much it's driving you simple.
marty		Ten thousand dollars I'll give you.
visser		I'm supposed to do a murder--two murders--and just trust you not to go simple on me and do something stupid. I mean real stupid. Now why should I trust you?
marty		For the money.
visser		 The money. Yeah. That's a right smart of money...
visser		...In Russia they make only fifty cents a day.
marty		 ...There's a big--
visser		 I want you to go fishing.
marty		...What?
visser		Go down to Corpus for a few days. Get yourself noticed. I'll give you a call when it's done... You just find a way to cover that money.
marty		I'll take care of the money, you just make sure those bodies aren't found... There's a...
marty		...If you want, there's a big incinerator behind my place...
visser		 Sweet Jesus, you are disgusting.
landlady		 I show you around.
abby		Are you sure this is... Are you sure this apartment is vacant?... Mrs. Esteves?
landlady		Oh yes...
landlady		...That's the kitchen...
landlady		...This is the bathroom...
landlady		...The toilet works and everytheen...
landlady		...And here we are back in the liveen room.
landlady		...Good floors. Gas heat.
landlady		...That's Mr. Garcia.
landlady		...I was just esplaineen to him that he moved out of here yesterday...
landlady		...You look around. Don't mind Mr. Garcia; he use do be my brother-in- law.
exhorter		How 'bout it, gentlemen, let's show out appreciation for Lorraine up there, a registered nurse from Bolton, Texas, how 'bout it gentlemen, yeah...
abby		Looks like the state legislature is out of session.
meurice		I thought this is where they met.
abby		Listen Meurice, you're gonna help me with a problem.
meurice		I am?
abby		You're gonna keep an eye on Marty and Ray, make sure nothing happens.
meurice		It won't?
meurice		...Ever occur to you, Abby, that maybe I'm the wrong person to ask?
exhorter		Let's not sit on our wallets, gentlemen. Lorraine is up there dancing her heart out, and if you let that cash money set on your hip, you might just as well be broke...
abby		Thanks, Meurice.
meurice		Any time. But you don't have to worry about a thing for a while. Marty went down to Corpus yesterday.
exhorter		And remember, gentlemen, we're always here, two to two, A.M. to P.M., three hundred and sixty-four days and Christmas, God willing and the creek don't rise...
abby		He's in the house.
ray		What's the matter?
abby		I could've sworn I heard something.
ray		Door's locked. Nothing there.
abby		I knew it. 'Cause we wouldn't have heard anything if it was him. He's real careful. Fact is, he's anal.
ray		...Huh?
abby		Yeah, he told me once himself. He said to me...
abby		..."In here, Abby. In here... I'm anal."
ray		 ...Well I'll be damned.
abby		I couldn't believe it either...
abby		...Me on the other hand, I got lots of personality...
abby		Marty always said I had too much. 'Course he was never big on personality...
abby		...He sent me to a psychiatrist to see if he could calm me down some.
ray		Yeah? What happened?
abby		Psychiatrist said I was the healthiest person he'd ever met, so Marty fired him.
ray		 ...I don't know if you can fire a psychiatrist, exactly.
abby		Well, I didn't see him anymore, I'll tell you that much.
ray		Uh-huh.
abby		I said, Marty, how come you're anal and I gotta go to the psychiatrist?
ray		What'd he say?
abby		Nothing. He's like you, he doesn't say much.
ray		 Thanks.
abby		Except when he doesn't say things they're usually nasty.
ray		...Mm-hmm.
abby		When you don't they're usually nice.
ray		...You ever get tired?
abby		Huh? Oh, yeah, I guess. Mm-hmm.
voice		Hello.
visser		Marty?
marty		Yeah. Is it...
visser		Ya catch any fish?
marty		...What?
visser		Ya catch any fish?
marty		Yeah...
visser		...What kind of fish?
marty		Listen, what is it? Is it done?
visser		...Yessir, you owe me some money.
visser		 They look good.
marty		Want a couple?
visser		Just the ten thousand'll be fine.
marty		Got something to show me first?
marty		Dead, huh?
visser		So it would seem.
marty		What did you...
marty		...What did you do with the bodies?
visser		It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
marty		Jesus, I don't believe it...
marty		...I think I'm gonna be sick.
visser		I'll want that picture back...
visser		...and you did say somethin' about some money.
marty		Your money, yeah.
visser		Something I got to ask you, Marty. I've been very very careful. Have you been very very careful?
marty		Of course.
visser		Nobody knows you hired me?
marty		Don't be absurd, I wasn't about to tell anyone...
marty		...This is an illicit romance--we've got to trust each other to be discreet...
marty		...For richer, for poorer.
visser		Don't say that. Your marriages don't work out so hot...
visser		...How did you cover the money?
marty		It's taken care of. The less you know about it the better.
marty		...I just made a call about that. It'll look fine.
visser		 I must've gone money simple. This kind of murder...
visser		...it's too damn risky.
marty		Then you shouldn't have done it. Can't have it both ways.
marty		...Count it if you want.
visser		 Nah, I trust ya.
visser		Who looks stupid now.
ray		 Damn...
ray		Marty...
ray		Marty...
ray		What's the matter, you deaf?
evangelist		--so there were three signs, the second of which is Famine, this famine which I have already pointed out is devastatin' Africa and the Indian subcontinent. And the third of these signs is earthquakes. Now I don't know why he threw that in but if you talk to a geologist, and I've talked to many, he'll tell you that earthquake activity--
evangelist		--has increased almost eighty percent in the past two years, and what's more, in two years' time we'll be experiencin' what's knows as the Jupiter Effect--
evangelist		--wherein all the planets of the known universe will be aligned up causin' an incredible buildup of destructive gravitational force. Now in Matthew Chapter Six, Verse Eighteen the Lord out and tells us that these are the signs by which we shall know that He is at our door. There are many good people disagree with me, but it's my belief that this Antichrist is alive today and livin' somewhere in Europe, in that ten- nation alliance I spoke of, bein' groomed for his task--
abby		 Hello?
ray		 Abby... you all right?
abby		Ray?... What time is it?
ray		I don't know. It's early... I love you.
abby		...You all right?
ray		I don't know. I better get off now.
abby		Okay, see ya... Thanks, Ray.
ray		Abby--
abby		 ...Ray?
ray		You're bad.
abby		...What?
ray		I said you're bad.
abby		 ...You're bad too.
ray		We're both bad.
abby		Why didn't you get into bed?
ray		 I didn't think I could sleep. I'm surprised you could. Are you all right?
abby		Yeah...
abby		...You called me this morning.
ray		Yeah.
ray		...I just wanted to let you know that everything was all right. I took care of everything. Now all we have to do is keep our heads.
abby		...What do you mean?
ray		I know about it, Abby. I went to the bar last night.
abby		What happened?--Was Meurice there?
ray		Yeah.
ray		...He didn't see me, though. Nobody saw me.
ray		...Is it cold in here?
abby		Well... what happened?
ray		I cleaned it all up, but that ain't important...
ray		...What's important is what we do now; I mean we can't go around half- cocked. What we need is some time to think about this, figure it out...
ray		...Anyway, we got some time now. But we gotta be smart.
abby		Ray--
ray		Abby, never point a gun at anyone unless you're gonna shoot him. And when you shoot him you better make sure he's dead...
ray		...because if he's not dead he's gonna get up and try and kill you.
ray		...That's the only thing they told us in the service that was worth a goddamn--Where the hell's my windbreaker?
abby		What the hell happened, Ray?
ray		That ain't important. What's important is that we did it. That's the only thing that matters. We both did it for each other...
ray		...That's what's important.
abby		I don't know what you're talking about.
abby		I... I mean what're you talking about, Ray? I haven't done anything funny.
ray		...What was that?
abby		 Ray, I mean you ain't even acting like yourself. First you call me at five in the A.M. saying all kinds of nice things over the telephone and then you come charging in here scaring me half to death without even telling me what it is I'm supposed to be scared of. I gotta tell you it's extremely rattling.
ray		 ...Don't lie to me, Abby--
abby		How can I be lying if I don't even know--
abby		...I mean if you and him had a fight or something, I don't care, as long as you...
ray		...Pick it up.
abby		What.
abby		 ...Welp, that was him.
ray		...Who?
abby		Marty.
abby		...What's going on with you two?
ray		 All right...
ray		...You can call him back, whoever it was...
ray		...I'll get out of your way.
woman's voice		Hi Meurice, this is Helene, Helene Trend, and I'm calling 'cause I wanna know just what the hell that remark you made about Sylvia's supposed to mean...
woman's voice		...She says you're full of shit and frankly I believe her. And hey, I love you too. Sure. Anyway, you better call me soon because I'm going to South America tonight--you know, Uruguay?
marty's voice		 Listen asshole, you know who this is. I just got back from Corpus and there's a lot of money missing from the safe...
marty's voice		...I'm not saying you took it but the place was your responsibility and I told you to keep an eye on your asshole friend. Don't--uh, don't come to the bar tonight, I've got a meeting. But tomorrow I want to have a word with you, and with Ray--if you can find him.
woman's voice		Meurice, where the hell have you been? I--
meurice		I hope you're planning on leaving town.
ray		 Got a problem, Meurice?
meurice		No, you do, cowboy. You been to the bar?
ray		...Why?
meurice		You shouldn't have taken the money...
meurice		...Look at me man, I'm serious. You broke in the bar and ripped off the safe...
meurice		...Abby warned me you were gonna make trouble. Trouble with you is, you're too fucking obvious; the only ones with the combination are me and you...
meurice		...and Abby. Maybe. But as far as I'm concerned that only leaves one fucking possibility.
ray		 What's that?
meurice		Those things are nothing but coffin nails.
meurice		...Look. Personally I don't give a shit. I know Marty's a hard-on but you gotta do something. I don't know; give the money back, say you're sorry, or get the fuck out of here, or something...
meurice		...It's very humiliating, preaching about this shit.
meurice		I'm not laughing at this, Ray Bob, so you know it's no fucking joke.
abby		 Marty?
abby		Ray...?
marty		Lover-boy oughta lock his door.
marty		I love you...
marty		...That's a stupid thing to say, right?
abby		I... I love you too.
marty		No. You're just saying that because you're scared...
marty		...You left your weapon behind.
marty		He'll kill you too.
abby		Ray.
abby		...Where is everything?
ray		In the trunk.
ray		...In the car.
abby		...You leaving?
ray		Isn't that what you want?
ray		Wanna come with me?
abby		...But first I gotta know what happened.
ray		What do you want to know?
abby		You broke into the bar. You wanted to get your money. You and Marty had a fight. Something happened...
abby		...I don't know, wasn't it you? Maybe a burglar broke in, and you found--
ray		With your gun?...
ray		...Nobody broke in, Abby. I'll tell you the truth...
ray		...Truth is, I've felt sick the last couple of days. Can't eat... Can't sleep... When I try to I... Abby...
ray		...The truth is... he was alive when I buried him.
meurice		Abby. What's the matter?
abby		I... I'm sorry, Meurice. I gotta talk to you... Can I come in?
meurice		Yeah... yeah, come in...
meurice		...but I gotta tell ya...
meurice		...I'm retired.
meurice		Jesus, I got a hangover. Want a drink?
abby		No, I--
meurice		Well I do...
meurice		...For you I answer the door. If you wanna stay here, that's fine. But I'm retired.
abby		Something happened with Marty and Ray--
meurice		 Abby...
meurice		...Let me ask you one question...
meurice		...Why do you think I'm retired.
meurice		...Ray stole a shitload of money from Marty. Until both of 'em calm down I'm not getting involved.
abby		No Meurice, it's worse than that. Something really happened, I think Marty's dead--
meurice		What?! Did Ray tell you that?
abby		Sort of...
meurice		That's total bullshit. Marty called me after he was jacked up...
meurice		...I mean, I don't know where he is, but he ain't dead.
abby		Meurice--
meurice		You don't look too good. You sleep last night?
abby		Meurice, you gotta help me...
meurice		All right. Just sit tight. Try to get some sleep...
meurice		...I'll find Marty, find out what's going on.
meurice		...Opal?
meurice		...Something pretty fucking weird is going on. Put your coat on and I'll drop you at home. But don't talk to either of 'em until I do. And don't worry. Believe me. These things always have a logical explanation. Usually.
ray		 Turn it off.
abby		Ray...
ray		Just turn it off.
ray		 No curtains on the windows.
abby		...So?
ray		I think someone's watching.
abby		So what'll they see?
ray		Just leave it off. He can see in.
abby		 --If you do anything the neighbors'll hear.
ray		You think...
ray		...Abby. I meant it... when I called...
abby		...I love you too.
ray		Because you're scared.
abby		Ray--
abby		 No no--you don't understand--
visser		 All right...
visser		...You got some of my personal property.
visser		...One of you does.
visser		...I don't know what the hell you two thought you were gonna pull.
abby		...I ain't afraid of you, Marty.
visser		...If I see him, I'll sure give him the message.
rhodes		Hey there, stranger! What can I do you for?
ray		I need a room.
kyle		He needs a room, Dusty.
rhodes		I reckon I can hear him...  ...Room rate's eight sixty-six a day plus sales tax, plus extra for the TV option.
ray		How much extra?
kyle		 He wants the TV option, Dusty.
rhodes		I reckon I can hear him. TV option, that's a dollar twenty, makes nine eighty-six plus tax.
kyle		 Tell him the channels, Dusty.
rhodes		Channels, we got two and six. Two don't come in so hot.
ray		Just a room then.
kyle		 He don't want the option, Dusty.
rhodes		I reckon I heard the man.
ray		 Does he work here?
kyle		 Sure don't.
rhodes		See, Wednesday's the special on RC Cola. I don't know if I explained about the TV option. If there's a TV in the room, you got to pay the option.
kyle		 And how many room got TV, Dusty?
rhodes		Ever durned one.
ray		 Okay, I'll take the TV option.
rhodes		Well see the thing about that is, we're booked.
****Dialogues from script :Blood_and_Wine.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Blow.txt****

registration woman		Next.
george		There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different.  Something free form, you know?  Something for me, and college just isn't it.
fred		That's too bad.  You would have been the first one in the family.
george		I know.
fred		Alright.  You want me to get your old job back?  Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
george		No, Dad.  I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
fred		What are you going to do?
george		I'm going to California.
girls		You guys need some help?
tuna		I don't know about you, but I think we're gonna like it here.
tuna		Hey, wake up.  Come on, you two lovebirds.  Hurry, I want to show you something.
george		Figured what out?
tuna		You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money?  Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
barbara		Tuna, this is crap.
tuna		I know it's not the greatest.  It's commercial.
barbara		It's garbage.
george		It's oregano.  You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
tuna		We sell it.  I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach.  We move all of it.  We've made ourselves a hundred bucks.  Or a lot of weed for our head.  What do you think?  Not bad, huh?  I got the baggies and everything.
barbara		You can't sell this to your friends.
tuna		Man.  Fuck you guys.  I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
barbara		Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
george		Are you sure this guy is cool?
barbara		You'll see for yourself.
tuna		A beauty parlor for men?  Sounds pretty queer.
george		Nothing like this back home.
barbara		Derek!
derek		Barbie!
george		George.
tuna		Tuna.
derek		Tuna, oh my.  Enchante, George.  Barbie, he's yummy.  He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie.  It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes.
george		We want some grass.
derek		I know what you want.  But, first of all, are you cops?
george		No.
derek		Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
george		We're not cops.  We're from Massachusettes.  I mean, does he look like a cop?
derek		I guess not.  Okay.  You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
george		What the fuck is that?
derek		It's your grass.
tuna		Wow.  That's more than we had in mind.
derek		I don't nickel and dime.  You want it or not?
george		We'll take it.
george		This is it for me.
barbara		What is?
george		Just everything.  You.  California.  The beach.  This spot right here.  I feel like I belong here, you know?  It just feels right.
barbara		You happy, baby?
george		Yeah.  I am.
registration woman		Next.
george		There's something out there for me, Dad. Something different.  Something free form, you know?  Something for me, and college just isn't it.
fred		That's too bad.  You would have been the first one in the family.
george		I know.
fred		Alright.  You want me to get your old job back?  Because I could, you know, I could put in that word.
george		No, Dad.  I don't want to...I mean, I just don't want...
fred		What are you going to do?
george		I'm going to California.
girls		You guys need some help?
tuna		I don't know about you, but I think we're gonna like it here.
tuna		Hey, wake up.  Come on, you two lovebirds.  Hurry, I want to show you something.
george		Figured what out?
tuna		You know how we were wondering what we were going to do for money?  Being how we don't want to get jobs and whatnot? Well, check this out.
barbara		Tuna, this is crap.
tuna		I know it's not the greatest.  It's commercial.
barbara		It's garbage.
george		It's oregano.  You got ripped off, pal. What are you gonna do with all this?
tuna		We sell it.  I got it all figured out. We make three finger lids and sell them on the beach.  We move all of it.  We've made ourselves a hundred bucks.  Or a lot of weed for our head.  What do you think?  Not bad, huh?  I got the baggies and everything.
barbara		You can't sell this to your friends.
tuna		Man.  Fuck you guys.  I have this great idea and you guys have to be all skeptical.
barbara		Look, if you really wanna score some dope, I got the guy.
george		Are you sure this guy is cool?
barbara		You'll see for yourself.
tuna		A beauty parlor for men?  Sounds pretty queer.
george		Nothing like this back home.
barbara		Derek!
derek		Barbie!
george		George.
tuna		Tuna.
derek		Tuna, oh my.  Enchante, George.  Barbie, he's yummy.  He looks like a Ken doll. Oooh, Ken and Barbie.  It's perfect. Alright, girls, give me five minutes.
george		We want some grass.
derek		I know what you want.  But, first of all, are you cops?
george		No.
derek		Because if you are, you have to tell me. If not, it's entrapment.
george		We're not cops.  We're from Massachusettes.  I mean, does he look like a cop?
derek		I guess not.  Okay.  You know, you're very lucky you're friends of Barbie's. If you weren't, I'd never talk to you.
george		What the fuck is that?
derek		It's your grass.
tuna		Wow.  That's more than we had in mind.
derek		I don't nickel and dime.  You want it or not?
george		We'll take it.
george		This is it for me.
barbara		What is?
george		Just everything.  You.  California.  The beach.  This spot right here.  I feel like I belong here, you know?  It just feels right.
barbara		You happy, baby?
george		Yeah.  I am.
tuna		Look what the cat dragged in.
george		Holy shit, Dulli.  What the hell are you doing here?
kevin		Well, I'll tell you.  I was walking down the beach, minding my business, when who did I see but this fucking guy.  I didn't know you guys were living in California.
george		Yeah, but what are you doing out here?
kevin		I'm on vacation.  On my way back to school.
george		This calls for a joint.  You want to do the honors?
kevin		No, man.  I'm too fucked up.
tuna		Nice weed, huh?
kevin		Fuck yeah.  I never seen nothing like it.  I'm fucking wasted.
george		Right on.
kevin		G-d, I'm stoned.  I'm stoned.  I'm really...
george		Stoned?
kevin		I wish there was shit like this back home.
george		Yeah?
kevin		Shit, yeah.  Do you know how much money I could make if I had this stuff back east?
tuna		No shit, Kevin?
kevin		That's right.
george		Yeah?
kevin		When there's something to move, it's too easy not to.  Do you know how many colleges are in a twenty mile radius? U. Mass, Amherst, B.U....
tuna		Smith.  Hampshire....
kevin		Right.  And Holyoke.  There are a hundred thousand rich kids with their parents' money to spend, but there's never anything available.  Nothing good, anyway.  I'm paying four hundred dollars for shit.
george		The way we figure it, Barbara flies to Boston twice a week.  Two bags per flight.  Twenty-five pounds in each bag.
derek		You're kidding, right?  That's a hundred pounds a week.
george		Yeah, I know, it's a lot of weight.
barbara		We're gonna call it California sinsemilla.  Sounds exotic.
george		I'm telling you, Derek, it will sell.
derek		I don't know...
george		Here's the best part.  We can charge five-hundred a pound.
derek		Come on, George, no one is going to pay that.
george		It's already been negotiated.  It's done.  The money is there waiting.
derek		Goodness.
george		Goodness is right.  If you do the math, that's over thirty grand a week profit. I want you to be my partner on this, Derek.  Fifty-fifty.  That's fifteen thousand a week for you, my friend.  In your pocket, free and clear.
derek		And I only deal with you?
george		Barbara and me.  No one else.
barbara		It's gonna work, Derek.
derek		I don't know.  East coast.  Airplanes. It all sounds pretty risky.
george		She's a flight attendant.  They don't check her bags.
barbara		Any message?
kevin		Keep it coming.
kevin		More.
kevin		I need more.
barbara		What do you want me to do?  I can only take two bags, and I can't fly back here everyday.
kevin		I know, but I've got a feeding frenzy on my hands.  Tell George this is small potatoes.  We're missing out on some serious cash.  You tell George.  He'll think of something.
kevin		Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, nine. Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, a thousand.  It's all there.  Wow.  A hundred and twenty-eight thousand dollars.
tuna		Jesus Christ, I'm getting a boner just looking at it.
kevin		What's the matter, George?  Something wrong?  You look like you just fucked your mother.
tuna		Cheer up, man.  Half this money is ours. We're fucking rich.
george		It's not enough.
kevin		What?
tuna		What the fuck are you talking about, man?
george		The set-up is wrong.  We're doing all the legwork, and at the end of the day, we're still paying retail.  We're getting middled.
kevin		So?
george		So, we need to get to the source.
tuna		Source?  What about Derek?
george		He's getting middled, too.  And Derek's our partner.  What's good for us is good for him.
kevin		Okay.  So we need a source.  Where do we start?
george		Who speaks Spanish?
tuna		This is bullshit, George.  We're never going to find anything down there.
kevin		You know, he's got a point.  We're fucking Americans.  We stick out like sore thumbs.
derek		I don't think so.
george		You guys are such babies.  You want to go home, go.  Me, I'm not going to stop until I find the fucking motherlode.
rada		Georgie, we're gonna get busted if we keep this up.
george		We're not gonna get busted.
kevin		George, we'll wind up in a Mexican prison getting fucked up the ass by one of Maria's relatives.
maria		Hey, fuck you, Dulli.  I'm not Mexican. I'm Italian.
barbara		You're Italian?
kevin		Yeah, right.  Gonzales.  What is that, Sicilian?
tuna		As far as I'm concerned, we're on fucking vacation.
santiago		Ramon tells me you are looking for some mota.
george		Yes, I am.
santiago		For instance, something like this?
george		Very nice.  I'll take it.
santiago		Ha ha ha.  You are funny.   Really, how much will you be needing?
george		All of it.  As much as you've got.  A couples thousand pounds.  I'll be back in a week with a plane.
santiago		Listen, Americano, it is very nice to meet you, but maybe we are going too fast.  You take a little and then come back.
george		I don't need a little.  I need a lot.
santiago		Marijuana is illegal in my country, and I believe in yours, as well.  We must be careful.
george		What if I brought you, let's say, fifty thousand dollars?  Would that eliminate some of your concerns?
santiago		Amigo, you bring me fifty-thousand dollars, and I have no more concerns.
tuna		I can't believe we're stealing a plane.
kevin		Don't be such a pussy.
george		It's fine.  We're not stealing it. We're borrowing it.  And try to look natural.  We've got company.
tuna		You guys are fucking insane.
george		Alright, pull back the throttle...
kevin		Relax.  I've flown with my old man a million times.  And he always told me, the taking off part is easy, it's the landing you've got to worry about.
amigos		Hola, George!  Bienvenido!
santiago		Good to see you, Jorge.  You are a man of your word.
george		Actually, I've got some news.  That fifty thousand I promised you, I couldn't get it.
george		Are you sure you want to do this in front of everyone?
derek		Don't be ridiculous, these are my babies.
george		Should we buy it?
barbara		Are you kidding?
george		We'll take it.
mexican boy		Picture?
ermine		I just can't get over the size of that ring.  I just love it.  Fred, look at it.  Tell me you don't love that ring.
fred		I'm just happy that George has found someone he cares for.
ermine		Yes.  Of course.  But, I'm talking about that ring.  It's something else.  Let me tell you.
barbara		George has exquisite taste.
ermine		What is that, two carats?  That's got to be two carats.
barbara		I don't know.
ermine		Yes.  It's at least two carats, darling. Treasure it.
fred		Hard to imagine being able to afford a ring like that on a construction salary.
george		Well, you know.  It's um...
ermine		Oh, shut up, Fred.  Shut your big fat mouth.  You don't buy it all at once. It's called layaway.
fred		Layaway shmayaway.
ermine		That's right.  Layaway.  Something you wouldn't know anything about, you cheapskate.
fred		Who's the cheapskate?
ermine		You, you big old tightwad.  He still has his communion money.  Tell him, George. Tell your father about layaway.
george		Yeah, layaway.
ermine		The boy is happy, Fred.  Don't be such a killjoy.
fred		Killjoy?
george		Honey, your nose!
barbara		Oh my G-d, I'm so sorry.
ermine		Barbara, here, take my napkin.
barbara		Thanks.  I'll be okay.
george		You wanna split?
barbara		Yeah, I don't feel so well.
george		Okay, guys, we're gonna leave.  Let's get the check.
george		Are you sure you're okay?  You're pale.
barbara		I feel like shit.  Me and my frigging nosebleeds.
george		I'm taking you to the doctor when we get home, and I don't want to hear any arguments.
barbara		Would you be bummed out if I didn't go to Chicago with you?
george		No, not at all.  Sure.  You're right. You fly home and get some rest.
barbara		Nice first impression.  A nose bleed in front of your parents.
george		Oh my G-d, how embarrassing were they? I wanted to shoot myself.
barbara		Oh, they weren't that bad.  I mean, they were kind of cute.
george		Promise me that we'll never be like them.  I don't want to wind up like that.
barbara		Relax, baby.  We're going to wind up like us.
judge		George Jung, you have been accused of possession of six-hundred and sixty pounds of marijuana with intent to distribute.  How do you plead?
judge		By all means.
george		In all honesty, I don't feel like what I've done is a crime and I think it's illogical and irresponsible for you to sentence me to prison.  None of the real criminals of the world ever end up behind bars.  I mean, when you think about it, what did I really do?  Cross an imaginary line with a bunch of plants?  You say that I'm an outlaw, you say that I'm a thief, but where's the Christmas dinner for the people on relief?
judge		Those are very interesting concepts you have, Mr. Jung. Unfortunately for you, the imaginary line you crossed is real, the plants you brought with you are illegal, and what you did constitutes a crime.
barbara		Surprise.
george		Baby, you didn't have to come.
barbara		What, and miss all the fun?  C'mon, not a chance.  So, what's the verdict?
george		Lawyer says he can plead it down to five years.  I'll serve two.
barbara		Two years.  George, I can't wait that long.
george		What?  You're not going to wait for me?
barbara		George, I went to the doctor.  I don't have two years.
george		It went too fast.
george		Hi, Mom.
ermine		Take your boots off.  You're tan.
george		Mexico.
ermine		Yeah.  We heard all about it.  I want you to know I'm deeply sorry about your girlfriend.
george		Barbara.
ermine		Yes, Barbara.  She was very pretty.
george		Thank you.  Have you been getting the money I sent you?
ermine		You mean the drug money?  Yes, I got it.
george		Okay, Mom.  It's okay.  Where's Dad?
george		May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face...
fred		...and the winds of destiny carry you aloft...
both		...to dance with the stars.
fred		You alright?
george		Just low.
fred		You loved her, didn't you?  You really loved her.
george		Yeah, Dad.  I really did.  What am I gonna do?
fred		Tough spot.
george		You mad at me?
fred		Not mad.
george		Yeah, you are.  I can tell by the way you look at me.
fred		I just don't know what you're thinking. I don't understand your choices.  You know, the police are looking for you.
george		I know.  I'm great at what I do, Dad.  I mean, I'm really great.
fred		Let me tell you something, son.  You would have been great at anything.
ermine		George!
trout		George Jung, you are under arrest.
fred		Open the door, son.
ermine		I had no choice.
guard		Prisoner in.
diego delgado		My name is Diego Delgado.  How do you do?
diego		If you don't mind me asking, what is the reason you are in this place?
george		What?
diego		Your offense?  Why are you here?
george		I don't want to talk about it.
diego		Intriguing.  I see.  Would you like to know my crime?
george		Not really, no.
diego		No?
george		I don't like a lot of conversation, Diego.
diego		Me, too.  Too much blah, blah, blah, blah is no good.  But we are roommates, okay?  And we must talk to each other. I am arrested for stealing cars.  For the grand theft auto.  Okay?  So, now it is your turn.  Now you will tell me, okay?  You will tell me why you are here?
george		Murder.
diego		Ah, yes.  The murder.
george		What do you got there, Diego?
diego		Nothing.  Just a little project.
george		What kind of project?
diego		Never mind.  Not for you to worry.
george		I thought you said we were roommates. That we should talk about everything.
diego		You have your intrigues.  I have mine. This is a happy day for me, George. Nine months from today, I will be in Medellin sipping champagne.  In nine months, I am free.  How much time do you have?
george		Twenty-six months.
diego		Twenty-six months?  For murder?  I must be your lawyer.
george		I've got to get out of here, Diego.
diego		Only two ways I know to leave here early.  One is to escape.
george		What's the other one?
george		Alright, let's open our books.
george		Alright.  You're right.  I want to get out of this shithole as fast as I can. And I don't want to do this any more than you do.  But for me to walk early, some of you have to graduate.  You, forget about it.  You're hopeless, go to sleep.
george		But the rest of you could get diplomas and get jobs when you're on the outside.
george		We can learn some criminal shit, too. Alright, I'll make you a deal.  What if half the time, we learn about George Washington, and the other half, I'll teach you how to smuggle drugs?
george		I was arrested in Chicago with six hundred and sixty pounds of grass.  I think that qualifies me.
george		Flew it in from Mexico on a single engine Cessna.  Now, do we have a deal or not?
diego		George?  Hey, George?  I listen to what you say to the class today about the smuggling.  You are a magico, ah?
george		I'm tired, Diego.  Go to bed.
diego		You like to make the boundaries disappear.  It's not only the money, is it, George?  The adventure is part of the victory.  It's the thrill, ah?
george		Good night.
diego		In my country, I am a magico.  A man with a dream.  A man on the rise.  To take nothing and make it something, okay?  I have failed my dream, but I will accomplish.  That is why I am in your country.  Yes, I lose my freedom. But they do not take my dream.  Do you have a dream, George?
george		I would if I could get some sleep.
diego		Yes, you have a dream.  And maybe you accomplish your dream.  But yet you failed.  Why?
george		Because I got caught.
diego		No, my brother.
george		Because they caught me?
diego		You failed because you had the wrong dream.
george		I don't know, Diego.  I've got a good thing going already.  Everybody smokes pot.  It's easy.  Cocaine is a rich man's drug.  It's too expensive.
diego		No, no.  That is where you are wrong. For us, it is cheap.  In Medellin, we buy for six-thousand dollars a kilo.  IN Miami, we sell for sixty.
george		That's over fifty-thousand dollars profit per kilo.
diego		And that's wholesale.  Cut it a few times and retail, you're looking at two, three-hundred thousand.
george		Oh my G-d.
diego		Yes.  And a kilo of coca is smaller than a kilo of your precious marijuana. Everything is the same, George, except instead of thousands, you are making millions.
george		Jesus Christ.  Jesus fucking Christ.
diego		Now do you see what I am saying?
george		Getting it here is no problem.  Trust me.  I'll fly it in myself if I have to. What about supply?  How much can we get?
diego		Don't worry.  We will talk of everything.  We have the time.  You arrive here with a Bachelor of Marijuana, but you will leave with a Doctorate of Cocaine.
diego		What type of planes do you have?
george		Four passenger, single engine Cessna.
diego		How many kilos can we fit in these planes?
george		I don't know.  A hundred, hundred and fifty.  How many miles is it from Colombia to Miami?
diego		Fifteen hundred.  We'll have to stop somewhere to refuel.
george		We'll refuel in the Bahamas.  I know someone there.
diego		Great.  I love the Bahamas.
george		Diego Delgado, please?
diego		Allo?
george		Diego?  It's George.
diego		George, hallo!  Today is the day, ah? Are you out?
george		Yeah, I'm out.
diego		Congratulations, brother.  I've been waiting for you.
george		How are we doing?
diego		Perfect, George.  Perfect.  Everything is fine down here.  Everything is all set up.
george		Do we need a plane?  How does this work? When do I see you?
diego		Slow down, George.  Slow down.
george		I can't go anywhere, Diego.  I'm on parole.  I can't leave the state.
diego		But you must.  It's the only way.
george		I just got released five minutes ago.
diego		George, are we gonna do this or not?
george		Good to see you, Diego.
diego		Yes.  Look around you.  The sun.  The water.  The women.  It's better than Danbury, no?  Come on.  I have some friends I would like you to meet.
diego		Fifteen kilos.  Seven and a half in each suitcase.  You receive a hundred thousand dollars upon delivery.
george		Okay.
cesar		Not so fast.  I would like to go over the details.
george		What details?  I put the coke in the false bottoms and take it through customs.
cesar		Tell me about the suitcases.  What is the make and the color?
diego		Samsonites.  Red.  No tags.
cesar		Hmm.  I see.  Will there be clothes in the suitcase?
george		What?  Yeah, sure.
cesar		Whose cloths?  Your clothes?
george		My clothes, your clothes.  What does it matter?
cesar		I would like to know the contents. Every detail is important.
george		What are we doing here, Diego?  This guy's a clown.  He's talking about clothes.
cesar		I demand to know everything.  I do not trust six-hundred thousand dollars of coca to someone I don't know.
george		It's a lousy fifteen kilos.  I piss fifteen kilos.
cesar		The coca is my responsibility!
george		You're a fucking amateur!
diego		Gentlemen, please.  There is no need to be impolite.  Cesar, this will be fine. You have my word.  George, Cesar is just being thorough.  That's all.
cesar		Very well.  But just remember, Mr. Jung. I will be with you the whole way.  And I will be watching.
customs agent		On vacation?
george		Yes.
customs agent		On vacation for only one day?
george		 My brother's wedding.  Imagine that, huh?
customs agent		Open your bags, please.
george		Mine.
customs agent		And this?
george		What can I tell you?  Different strokes.
customs agent		Alright, go ahead.
diego		Three-hundred kilos it is, then.
stevens		I'll fly down on a Friday, refuel in the Bahamas, and then to Medellin.
inez		Friday?
diego		Please, continue.
george		We make the pick-up, refuel once more in the Bahamas, and fly back on Sunday with the mom and pop traffic.
cesar		Why are you speaking?
george		Excuse me?
cesar		You.  Your responsibility is over.  You do not fly.  You are not a pilot.  You are not a distributor.  You introduced us to Mr. Stevens and the use of his airplane.  That is all.  You make a percentage.  A generous one.  And you're lucky to get that.
george		I see.  How much?
cesar		Padrino will pay ten-thousand per kilo. For everyone.  For you, and you, and you.
stevens		I want two.
george		Gee, Jack, a million each had such a nice ring to it.
stevens		No way.  I'm doing all the work.  Taking all the risk, and it's my plane.
george		You good with this?
diego		You will watch what you say.  Especially around George.  He is my brother and he speaks as good Spanish as you.
inez		Get your hands off me.
cesar		Do you have pictures of your kids?
stevens		What?
cesar		I'll need to see them.  Also need their names and the names of their schools. We are trusting you with ninety million dollars worth of coca, Mr. Stevens. Without your children, there is no deal.
stevens		Fine.  So if that's all, I'll be leaving now.
cesar		Don't forget the pictures.
diego		What's the matter, George?
george		What's the matter?  We're moving three hundred fucking kilos and we're making dogshit.
diego		A million dollars for our first run is not bad, George.
george		It is bad.  It's chump change.  We might as well be hauling suitcases across the border.  We're getting screwed.
diego		I know.
george		And what happens when these guys stop paying?  Sooner or later, these guys are going to cut us out.  Then where are we?
diego		That's my George, always thinking.
george		What is it, George?  Because I have to get home.  I've got a parole officer waiting for me.
diego		I need you to go to Miami.
george		I'm George.  Friend of Diego's?
alessandro		QUIET!  Callate!  Where's Diego?
george		I don't know.  He sent me.  I'm George.
alessandro		Oh, I see.  George.  Well, that explains everything.  Open your mouth, George.
george		Um-hmm.
ermine		You have a phone call.
george		Jesus Christ, Diego, where are you? It's been eleven days and these guys want their fucking money.
george		Well, you better get here fast.  I'm sitting on...
diego		It's a little hard to get away right now.  I'm afraid you're on your own.
george		What did I tell you?
derek		It's great and everything, but what am I going to do with all this?
george		Sell it?
diego		Jesus Christ, George, I don't see you in two years, and you show up at my door with a hundred and ten pounds of cocaine?
george		Just sell it, Derek.
derek		Alright, but it's gonna take me a year.
diego		Thirty-six hours.  I can't believe it. Everything is gone in thirty-six hours.
george		I think it's fair to say you underestimated the market there, Derek.
diego		Touche.
george		But to the victor belong the spoils.
derek		Nice doing business with you, George.
george		Not bad for a weekend's work, huh?
alessandro		Greetings, Mr. George.
george		Where do you guys want to count?
alessandro		On the plane.
george		What plane?  We going someplace?  Where we headed?  You have your money.  It's all there.  What the fuck is going on?
diego		George, good to see you, my brother.
george		What the fuck is going on?  When did you get out of jail?
diego		Pablo used his influence.  Now, George, watch what you say.  Everybody hears everything.  A lot of things get said and done that, well, let's just say this isn't America.  Life is cheap here, you know?  No offense, but you know what I'm saying?
george		Yeah.  Keep my mouth shut and let you do the talking.
diego		Right.  Now who is the person in California?  The connection?
george		Just a friend.
diego		Who?  I need to know.  Ah, never mind. We'll talk about it later.
george		Yeah.  You do the talking.
diego		There must be some kind of mistake.
diego		It's alright, George.  You go.
escobar		So, this is the man who takes fifty kilos and makes them disappear in one day?
george		Actually, it was three.
escobar		The man who gives us the airplanes.  The man from America.  The mafia.  Chicago. Boom boom.  Hollywood.  You are going to open for us the gates of Hollywood, George?
george		It would be my pleasure.
escobar		Good.  Very good.  Welcome, my friend. Welcome to my country.
george		Un sapo?
escobar		Un rata - no good.  But he could have run, fled the country.  Gone to the policia.  But then his wife, his children, his parents, his friends, many people would die.
george		Yes.
escobar		But, never mind.  I am thinking we can do much together.  This problem with Diego, the stolen car, the jail, is very silly business.  To release him from the carcel, it causes me much inconvenience. The fifty kilos could have been a big problem.  And I don't like problems.
george		With all respect, Padrino.  Diego is my partner.  I do not do business without him.
escobar		I like you, George.  You are loyal. That is good.  That is rare.  Maybe crazy.  Yes.  I can tell already.  You are like me.  I look at you and I see myself.  It's in the eyes, no, George?
george		Yes, it is.
escobar		So, you are wanting to sell the cocaine for me in your country, George?
george		Yes, sir.  As much as you can give me.
escobar		As much as I can give you?  Ha ha.  Very good.  I like that.  Come, George.  Let us drive.  We have much to talk about.
escobar		I like to come up here.  To make the decisions.  To be one with nature.
george		It's beautiful.
escobar		People tell me that I am crazy.  That my business will never work in your country.  What do you think, George?
george		What do I think?  I don't want my answer to be influenced by what I want, so I'm going to have to say I don't know.
escobar		Yes.  I do not know, either.  What do you want, George?
george		I want money.
escobar		Yes.  Money.  Which is what, George?
george		Freedom.
escobar		Power?
george		Yeah, maybe.
escobar		Family.
george		Sure.
escobar		Beautiful girls?
george		Keep them coming.
escobar		Keep them coming?  Ah, yes.  Ha ha.  You are right.  But money.
george		Money.
escobar		And Diego?
george		Diego is my brother.
escobar		Good.  Take care of him, George.  I'm fond of him, but he is sometimes like a baby.  Keep an eye on him, okay?
diego		Padrino.
escobar		Diego, mijo.  I've made a decision.  We are going into business and I would like to start right away.
george		Three million.  I counted it twice.
diego		It's two-point-five, George.  I am sure.
george		I'm calling it three.
diego		We're half a million off.
george		Fuck it.  I'm not counting it again.
diego		Weight it.  If it's sixty pounds, it's three.  If it's fifty, it's two-point five.
george		I don't give a shit.  Close enough.
diego		Try the back bedroom.
george		There's no room.
diego		Try the closet.
george		We've got to do something about this.
george		Are you comfortable with this?
diego		George, we've got sixty-one million dollars.  It's either here or someplace else.  We've got to put it somewhere. Unless you want to launder it.
george		And keep only forty-percent?  No thanks.
diego		Then relax.  It's a federal bank. Guaranteed by the government.  And Senor Noriega has very lenient banking principles.  No questions.  No problems. All the pesados keep their money here. Even El Padrino.  What do you worry? Everyone knows we are with Escobar.  Who is going to fuck with us?
george		I love it.
bank president		I'm sorry.
george		I give you thirty-million dollars and you give me this little book.
diego		I'm married, George.  Me.  I can't believe it.  Can you believe I'm married, George?
george		You're a lucky man, Diego.
diego		I love you, my brother, do you know that?
george		I love you too, man.
inez		Look, honey, a power boat.
diego		Great, baby, great!
george		Hello.
mirtha		Hello.
george		Do I know you?
mirtha		I don't think so.
george		Why are you smiling?
mirtha		Why are you smiling?
george		I don't know.  My name is George.
mirtha		I know who you are, El Americano. Mister George.
george		What is your name?
cesar		Mr. Jung, I see you've met my fiancee, Mirtha.
george		Mirtha.
cesar		Diego needs to see you right away, please.  Excuse us, Amorcito.
augusto		Pleased to meet you finally, George.  I am Augusto Oliveras.
george		My pleasure, Augusto.  Diego has told me much about you.
ramon ochoa		Congratulations on your conquest of the West Coast.   How much bigger can we get?
george		Sky's the limit.  We're just beginning to tap the market.  If it's accepted by actors and musicians, the rest will follow.
augusto		We are talking about George's West Coast operation.
diego		Ah, George's mystery man.
rafael ojeda		Yes, where is this man?  When do we meet him?
diego		You don't meet him.  George keeps this a secret.  He's here meeting everyone, goes to Colombia and meets Pablo, but still keeps his secrets.  Even from his brother.
emilio ochoa		Yes, George, there's enough for everybody.
george		I think Padroni is happy with the current situation.  Will you please excuse me?
mirtha		You better know what you're doing, George.  You're playing with fire.
george		I like fire.
mirtha		I do.
george		Jesus Christ.
mirtha		Oh, don't be such a fucking hypocrite. I quit smoking, didn't I?
george		Put that shit away, they're here.
ermine		It's all so beautiful.
mirtha		What do you think, Dad?
fred		Yeah.  Nice.
ermine		Look at this credenza.  If you don't mind me asking, how much is something like that?  It's got to cost a fortune.
george		 It's a family heirloom.
ermine		I've seen those in magazines.  They're not cheap.
george		Mirtha comes from a very wealthy family.
ermine		Oh, I see.
mirtha		Come on.  I'll show you the rest of the house.
george		So, business is going good.  I've got this import/export thing going on in Miami that's been very profitable.  With my investments...
fred		Don't bullshit me, George.  I don't see you very much, I don't want to waste the time.
george		Dad.
fred		No, it's good.  You have a family.  It's good if it makes you happy.  It's nice to have nice things.  Are you happy, son?
george		Yeah, Dad.  I'm happy right now.
diego		Three years.  How long have we been in business?  Three years.  Does she get to meet your connection?  Was she good enough?
george		Shut up, Diego.  They're going to be here any minute.  I'm trying to concentrate.
diego		I'm very angry with you, George.  Very angry.  You don't take me to California, but you take your bitch wife?  A woman? I understand you love her, but it was you and me who started this.  You and me.
george		What do you need my connection for, Diego?  What are you going to do with it?
diego		What do I do with it?  Nothing.  It's for peace of mind.  It's for the principle.
george		Jesus fucking Christ, Diego.  I ain't telling you.  It's just business.  Now, shut up.  You're driving me crazy.
diego		I'm driving you crazy?  No.  You're driving me crazy.  We had a dream.  What happened to our dream?
tony		Algun problema?
george		No no no... no problema, amigo.  El dinero esta todo aqui. Lleves las "llaves" y mas tarde lo contaremos.  Okay?  No problem.
tony		Que problema?  Nosotros esperamos.
diego		 You embarrassed me, George.  You make me look very bad.
benny		Que esta diciendo?
george		Nothing.  Todo esta bien.
diego		 Everything is not alright.  I bring you in, and you slap my fucking face!
george		This is not the time, Diego.
tony		Hay algun problema?  Hablame!
diego		 You fucked me in front of my whole family!
george		Fuck you...I didn't fuck you.
benny		Maldita sea, que diablos esta diciendo?
george		Esta todo aqui, amigo...take the keys. Take 'em and go.
tony		Que esta pasando aqui, jefe?
diego		Sientese ye no se meta en lo que no le importa.
george		Take it easy!  Everything's okay!
diego		Que es lo que quieren de me, hijueputas campesinos?
george		Take the fucking keys!
diego		Es un Ford blanco junto a una pick-up.
george		No problem, gentlemen.  Goodbye.
diego		What?
george		Derek Foreal.  Derek Foreal.  Derek fucking Foreal.  Alright?  The answer to all your dreams.  Are you happy now?
fred		Hello, hello.
augusto		I'm so glad you two could make it. Mirtha, look at you.  So beautiful.  You look like you're about to burst.
mirtha		Thanks.  I am.  Where's Martha?
augusto		I don't know.  Drunk somewhere.  Try the bar.  And if you find her, tell her to come, it's almost midnight.
diego		Where's Diego?
augusto		He's not here, George.
george		Yeah, well where is he?  And who is this Norman K. guy?  That's all anyone is talking about.  Norman K.  Norman K.  Do I know him?
augusto		Norman Cay is not a person.  He is an island, George.  In the Bahamas.  From what they say, it is free and it's Diego's new home.
george		What?
augusto		Let us walk.  From what I understand, Diego has bought a hundred and sixty acres, a marina, a hotel, and an airstrip.
george		Motherfucker works fast.
augusto		The word is that soon he is to be king of the middle empire.  He is doing multiple runs right now and using the island as a jump-off point.
george		He what?
augusto		Yes.  Jack Stevens is already a very busy man.  Along with many others.  You shouldn't stay away so long.
george		That's impossible.  We can't be up and running.  Who's distributing?
derek		I don't want to get caught in the middle of this.  That's between you and Diego.
george		Yeah.  I understand.  Just business. Right.  Fuck you.
mirtha		Que va hacer?
augusto		Que queres decir.  Que es lo que el va hacer?  Pues, no va hacer nada.
maria		Alguna cosa tiene que hacer.
maria		No Puedes hacer ni un culo.
augusto		El no va hacer nada.  Hay un problema. Aqui, hubo un error y nosotros lo vamos ha arreglar.
blanca		No le escusches a mi yerno.  A el solo le importa la plata.
blanca		Sabes que, vos no tenes pantalones. Nadie te va a respetar.  Usa esto.  Deja solo un huequito tan pequeno, que ni sangre le va a salir a ese malparido del Diego.
augusto		Blanca, por favor.
mirtha		Mama, vos sos bien antigua.  Como lo va a matar con un picahielo.  Eso era en su tiempo, estamos casi ya en los ochenta. El lo va a meter un tiro, lo va a volar, le va a hechar un hijueputa carro encima.
augusto		Dejen la maricada pues!  No jodan! Nadie va a matar a nadie!  George, debemos hablarle al Patron, es la unica manera, mano.
george		No, no, no, no yo puedo arregarlo solo.
cesar		Good to see you, George.  It's been a long time.
diego		George, I am happy to see you.  How are you, my brother?
george		No more brothers, Diego.
diego		Of course we are brothers.  Why do you say that?   You hurt me, George.
george		You fucked me, Diego.
diego		I did not.
george		You went behind my back and you cut me out.
diego		No, I never.  I would not do that, George.  Never.
george		I talked to Foreal, Diego.
diego		Maybe you are right.  I did betray you a little bit.
george		You'd better kill me now, Diego, because you're a dead man.
diego		George, don't be so emotional.  This is business.  Besides, I can't kill you, you are my brother.
cesar		Say "hi" to your pretty wife for me.
escobar		George, you look terrible.
george		Yeah, well...
escobar		Diego?
george		Yeah.
escobar		Please.  Sit down.  We'll drink some scotch.
george		I didn't come here to drink scotch.
escobar		I see.  I'm sorry about this, George. I'm not happy about this situation. It's bad.  You now know who your Brutus is.
george		You know why I'm here.  You know what I have to do.  I came here for permission. Out of respect, Pablo.  This is bullshit, he's making me look like a punk.
escobar		It is very difficult.  Diego makes me a lot of money.  If Diego goes so does the money.  You were an excellent teacher, George.  When the student has learned well, the teacher is no longer necessary.  We must remember we have wives, friends, familia.  Even familia that has not been born.  But sometimes, we must forget as well.  I am like you. I must teach the lesson.  We want to teach the lesson.  But we cannot.  We must remember that life is the teacher.
george		You're saying life will take care of Diego?
escobar		Life will take care of everybody. Diego, me, you.  It is the teacher.
george		I get it.   I'm really pissed, Pablo. You know the DEA knows about Norman's Cay.  For Chrissakes, Diego worships Adolf Hitler and John Lennon, that's fucked up!
escobar		I'm sorry, George.
george		Yeah, well, what are you gonna do?  You and me, Pablo?  Are we good?
escobar		Of course, George.  We are beautiful. We are brothers.  Real brothers.  Not like Diego.  We started this, George.
mirtha		George.  Oh, Jesus Christ, George.  Look at you.
george		Shhh, honey, never mind.  It's alright. It's over.  I quit the business.  I'm out.
mirtha		Pablo said no?
george		Pablo said no.  It's all over.  And I'm never going back.  I have you.  We have the baby.  And there's nothing else. It's just the family now.  Shhh.  Sleep now.
ermine		George, it's time!  George!  George!
george		Coming!
nurse		He fainted.
mirtha		George!
george		Coke.
george		I don't know.  Maybe eighteen grams.
george		Today.
george		Come on.  Come on, honey.  You can do it.  Come to Daddy.
mirtha		She did that before.
george		No.  These are her first steps.  Watch her.
mirtha		Yeah.  I know.  She did that before.
george		But this is...
mirtha		I said, I've seen it before.
george		Alright.
mirtha		Can you lift the furnace.  I need money.
george		Where are you going?
mirtha		Out.
derek		Happy Birthday, George.  Mirtha invited me.
george		Yeah.  She told me.
derek		Look, I'm sorry about everything.  I feel like an idiot.  You were right.  I did fuck you.  And then Diego fucked me. Cut me out, too.
george		I heard.
derek		I lost sight of everything.  Forgot who my friends were.
george		It's in the past.  I'm out of the business now, so forget about it.  No hard feelings.  We need to move on.  And besides, I'm sorry, too.
derek		You?
george		For calling you a homo.
derek		That was out of line.
george		Good to see you, Derek.
mirtha		Now let's fucking party, motherfuckers! Let's have some fucking fun.
derek		Jesus, is that Mirtha!?
george		I know.  She needs to slow down.  She's going to blow an O-ring.
mirtha		Happy birthday, baby.  Do a line.
george		No, that's alright.
mirtha		Oh fucking relax.  Let your hair down for once.  It's your fucking birthday, for Chrissakes.  You're such a fucking pussy.  I swear to G-d, I married this big time drug dealer and wound up with the maid.
george		No honey, I'm alright.
augusto		A toast!  To Mister George Jung.  Mr. I 95, north and south.  My brother-in-law. Happy birthday!
everyone		To George!
party guest		Cops!  They're all over the place.
bartender		Freeze!
waiter		Massachusetts State Police Department! Everybody on the floor!
george		What's this?
george		I want my kid out of protective custody. Now.  No fucking around.  My wife and my kid on a plane tonight.  I sign when they call me safe and sound.
george		Fuck you, then.  I sign nothing.
george		Oh hey, one more thing?
george		Get me a six pack.
george		Fuck.
george		Hi.
fred		I heard.  Ermine, your son is here.
george		Mom.
ermine		Don't you dare step one foot in this house.  You're not my son, you hear me? I don't have a son anymore.
fred		She's angry.  It's all over the news.
george		Yeah.  Listen.  I'm going to be going away for awhile.
fred		You're not going to trial?
george		No.
fred		Good.
george		Give this to Mom, will you?
fred		Money.  You and your mother.  All the time chasing it.  I never understood it.
george		Give it to her, Dad.  It'll make her happy.
fred		Yeah, I know.  This is it, isn't it?
george		Tell Mom, you know...
fred		I'll tell her.
george		I'd like to make a withdrawal.
bank employee		Excuse me, please.
bank president		I'm afraid there is a problem, Mr. Jung. The banks have gone through a change, a nationalization.  I'm afraid your funds have been appropriated by the Panamanian Government...
mirtha		What are we going to do?!  What are we going to use for money?!
george		Please, Mirtha.  I'll start working for Augusto.  I'll talk to him tonight. I'll do something.
mirtha		Don't touch me.  Tell me.  Just answer the question.  What do I spend?  What? How will we live?
george		Not in front of the kid.
mirtha		Don't give me that shit.  You just better do something.
george		Everything's gonna be okay, sweetheart. Don't be upset.
kristina		What's happening to us?
george		I don't know.
kristina		Are we gonna split up?
george		No, never.  Don't even think about that, it's impossible.  I love your mother. And you are my heart.  Could I live without my heart?  Could I?
george		There's a fucking cop behind us, Mirtha. Be cool, will ya.
mirtha		Fuck you, George, just fucking drive.
george		Hey, why don't you just put a "I'm doing cocaine" sign on the car.  What is your fucking problem?
mirtha		My problem?  We're broke, that's my fucking problem.  And you're a fucking spy.
george		What?
mirtha		That's right.  Always spying, always judging.  Everyone's laughing at you, you fucking pussy.  You let Diego fuck you in the ass.  Maybe you are a fucking faggot.  You must be fucking Diego because you're not fucking me.
george		Those are my nuts!
mirtha		He's a fugitive and a fucking cocaine dealer!  There's a kilo in his trunk right now!  Take this sorry motherfucker to jail!
mirtha		I'm divorcing you, George.  I'm getting custody of Kristina.  And when you get out next week, you're going to pay support and that's the end of it. Alright?  There's someone else.  I'm sorry.
george		What do you want me to say?  I'm in prison.  You should know.  You put me here.
mirtha		Fuck you, George.  I knew you'd say something like that.  Always thinking about yourself.
george		My baby.  She's so big.
kristina		I thought you couldn't live without your heart.
george		Hello, Derek?  It's George.  Yeah. Yeah, I am.  I'm in Miami.  I'm looking to do something.  I want to put together a crew.  Do you know anybody?  Leon?  I don't know him.  What's his last name? Alright.  Give me the number.
kristina		What are you doing here?
george		Nothing.  I just wanted you to know I was out.  I just wanted to see you.
kristina		Well, here I am.  See?
george		How are you doing?
kristina		George, you just can't show up, tell me you love me, and have everything be okay.
george		Dad.
kristina		What?
george		You can call me Dad if you want.
kristina		I don't want, alright?  It's not funny. I'm really pissed off, George.  You blew it, now leave me alone.
george		Kristina, c'mon, I'm sorry.  I'm going to make this right.  I've got a few things going on...
kristina		What do you want from me?
george		Just to walk with you.  I want to be your dad again.
kristina		Do what you want, it's a free country.
leon		It's a four-man operation.  Two on the ground.  Two in the air.
george		Who's the co-pilot?
leon		You're looking at him.  We provide the plane, transportation cost, U.S. landing spot, and take it to wherever you want it to go.  You provide the pick up point in South America, and are responsible for payment.  You assume all the bust risks.  We take sixty-five percent of all transportation fees, ten percent of the gross, plus our expenses. This is not a negotiation, so if this is okay with you, we can talk further.  If not, we can forget we had this conversation.
george		Sounds fine.  I'll need to meet everybody.
leon		They're over at the booth.
george		Holy shit, Dulli!
kevin		Georgie, oh man, hold the mayo!
augusto		Three-hundred kilos is a very big load, Georgie.  Why don't we start small?
george		No.  I have the space.  I figured it out.  This is what I want to do.
augusto		Alright.  I'll ask Pablo, tell him it's for you.  I don't think there will be a problem.
george		Five-thousand per kilo.
augusto		Ha ha.  That's too much, Georgie.  Those days are over.  The rate is one-thousand dollars.  Inflation, you know?
george		This is a one time thing, Gusto.  One and I'm out.  Give me a good price for old time's sake.  What do you think?
george		Let me ask you something.  If you could go anywhere in the world, anywhere, where would you want to go?
kristina		You mean, like a trip?
george		Yeah, sure, whatever.
kristina		I don't know.  Maybe California.
george		California?  You can go anywhere in the world.  India.  Tibet.  Australia. Paris.  And you choose California?
kristina		Yeah.
george		What is it?  A Disneyland thing?
kristina		No.  I just kind of like the sound of it.
george		California, huh?
kristina		California.
george		Go on inside now.  I want to talk to your mom alone.
kristina		Bye, Dad.  See you in the morning, okay?
george		I'll be here.
mirtha		What do you want?
george		You knew I was seeing Kristina, right?
mirtha		Yeah.  She told me.  You walk her to school.
george		Yeah, so I've been thinking.  I love her, y'know?  I kind of want to have her.  I've been away for so long.  Make up for the missed time, you know?
mirtha		I haven't seen one dollar from you.  You haven't paid me one cent in child support, alimony.
george		Yeah, well.  I'm working on that.  I've got something going.
mirtha		Yeah?  I better see some money out of it.
george		Yeah, you will.  Of course.
mirtha		Hey, look.  You start paying, who knows what will happen.  You're a good father, George.  I always gave you that.  But you've got to talk to her.
george		Yeah.
mirtha		She's getting big.  Getting her own ideas.
george		I know.  Well, that's all I really wanted to say.  So, okay, then.
mirtha		Hey, George.  You okay?
george		Yeah.  I'm fine.  I'm good.
kevin		We take off from Lauderdale, Sunday, refuel, and be in Medellin by Monday.
leon		Overnight, refuel, and back Wednesday night.
george		Where are you coming in?
ben		Vero Beach.
leon		Then we drive it to the Lauderdale house where it stays until pick up and payment the next morning.  You want to go over it again?
george		No.  All set.  Piece of cake.
george		I'm thinking about getting out of town this week.  You want to come with me?
kristina		Where are you going?
george		I don't know.  Maybe California.
kristina		You swear?
george		Yeah.  Go out there, check it out, see what it's like.  I've got some stuff to do this week, but I'm thinking maybe Thursday.  Thursday after school.
kristina		You know I can't.  Mom will never let me go.
george		You let me take care of your mother. You just pack your bags.
kristina		But I've got school.
george		There's schools in California.
kristina		You swear?
george		That's right.  Three o'clock.  Thursday. At your mother's.  You and me.  It's a date.
kristina		I don't believe you.
george		I swear.  On my life.
kristina		Swear on my life.
george		I swear on your life.
kevin		Are we good?
george		Are we good?  Yeah, we're good.  We're beautiful.  We're perfect.  This is A grade, one-hundred percent pure Colombian cocaine, Ladies and Gentlemen. Disco shit.  Pure as the driven snow. Good riddance.
leon		Jesus, George, fifteen percent.  That's an extra two-hundred large.
george		I don't give a shit.  Split it up.  Have a great life.  I'm done.  I'm out. Starting over.  Cheers.
leon		What?
ben		Me too.  He's not such a bad guy.
kevin		Fuck you guys.  All of you.  I've known him for thirty fucking years.  Fucking George.
leon		Yeah, I like him, too.  But what's done is done.  So let's not get all sentimental about it, okay?
george		 Dulli, I was just thinking about that time we landed in Mexico.  You've gotten a lot better since then, huh pal? Remember that fucking landing strip? Huh?
george		Oh, no.
zigmond		Here's the deal, George.  You're not getting out.  I tried to get you furloughed, but your mother squashed it. Said it would only upset him.  I'm sorry.
george		How's he doing?
zigmond		Well, he's out of the hospital, but there's not much anyone can do for him. It's just a matter of time.  Listen, I brought a tape recorder in case you wanted to say something to him.  That way he could hear your voice.
george		Right.
fred		That's where you belong...
fred		...you sonofabitch.  Putting on George's boots.
george		I guess I kind of lost sight of things. "May the wind always be at your back and the sun always upon your face, and the winds of destiny carry you aloft to dance with the stars."  Love, George.
fred		That was a beautiful message.
george		I meant every word of it.
fred		Did you know I died two weeks after you sent me that tape?
george		Yeah, Dad.  I knew that.
garcia		How are you doing, George?
george		What do you guys want?
garcia		You hear about your old friend, Diego?
george		What about him?
garcia		He's going down, George.  It's election year.  We're not making any deals.
garcia		So, how would you like to help us put him away?
george		I don't think so.
garcia		Don't be stupid, George.  We've got him. We've got him dead to rights.  But like I said, this is top priority so we're handing out free passes on this one. And the first one's got your name on it. Cut your sentence in half, maybe more.
george		No thanks, fellas.  You've got the wrong fucking guy.  I'm not a rat.
george		Mirtha, what's going on?  Everything okay with Kristina?
mirtha		Kristina's fine.
george		Is she here?  Is she coming?
mirtha		Is she here?  George, Kristina hates you.  You fucked her over one too many times.  And I'm not here to socialize. Did you hear about Diego?
george		Yeah.
mirtha		Well, I got a call from Pablo.  He said this thing with Diego is a disaster. He's giving up lab locations, names, bank accounts, he was very pissed off. Pablo said to take him down.  His exact words were "Fuck Diego."
george		He wants me to testify?  Is that what he's asking me to do?
mirtha		George, he wasn't asking.
george		Mirtha, how are you doing?
mirtha		Better than you.
george		Hey, Arch, you think the judge will let us get a cocktail after this is all over?
zigmond		I'll see what I can do, George.
george		Thanks, Arch.
clerk		Sir, please state your name.
george		I'm George Jung.  Spelled J-U-N-G.
clerk		Thank you.
prosecutor		Mr. Jung, do you know Diego Delgado?
george		Yes, I do.
prosecutor		Do you see him here in the courtroom?
george		Yes, he's sitting right there at the end of the table.
prosecutor		Let the record state the witness has identified, Diego Delgado.
george		Shortly after I arrived at Danbury Federal Correctional Institute I related to Diego that the crime I was in for was smuggling marijuana. Diego told me he had high level connections in Colombia and they needed to find someone to help them transport cocaine into America...
calibanos		Yes, we are Mr. Jung.
george		Yes, I am.
calibanos		Do you have any agreement or understanding whatsoever with the United States government in regards to your testimony?
george		No, I cam here out of my own volition.
calibanos		Excuse me?
george		Something about vengance being best served cold.
calibanos		Really.  Are you getting paid, Mr. Jung?
george		Excuse me?
calibanos		Mr. Jung, don't you have an agreement or understanding with the United States Government in connection with your testimony in this case?
george		I'm doing sixty years at Otisville, no chance of parole.  Even if they cut my sentence in half I'll be seventy-three years old.  That's some fucking deal.  I don't know if the parole board, the judge, the pope or Jesus Christ himself can get me out of here.  I have a really bad record, I'm not sure what's going to happen.
calibanos		So you do have an agreement with the United States Government, Mr. Jung, correct?
george		You shouldn't have taken the 30 million, Diego, I was out.
clerk		The court calls Mr. Jack Stevens.
kristina		I'm here to see my father.
admissions officer		Name?
kristina		Kristina Sunshine Jung.
guard		Hey, George, five more minutes, buddy.
admissions officer		Jung.
guard		George?  George, come on.  You've got a visitor.
george		I'm sorry, baby.  I'm so sorry.
kristina		It's alright, Dad.
george		I didn't mean to...
kristina		I know, Dad.  I know...
george		I fucked up.
kristina		Shhhh.
george		I love you.  I love you so much.  You've got to know that.  You've got to know.
kristina		I know, Dad.  I love you too.
george		After everything.  After everything, the only thing left out of my whole life is you.
guard		George?  George, come on.  It's getting dark.
george		But I have a visitor.
gus		Not today, George.  Time to go back.
george		But I want to put her name on the list for tomorrow.  My daughter.
gus		Okay, George.
george		Because she's visiting me.
gus		We'll do that tomorrow, okay?  It's lockdown time.
****Dialogues from script :Blue_Valentine.txt****

frankie		 Me-gan!
frankie		 Daddydaddydaddy.
frankie		When's she going to get back?
dean		She probably just went out for a run. She'll be back soon because she's going to get thirsty.
frankie		She's going to be thirsty?
dean		You know what we should do? We should leave her bowl full of water and her dish full of food. Because she's gotta get hungry and thirsty sometime. You know?
cindy		I'm sleeping!
dean		We're hungry! We're going to eat you.
dean		What happened to the flute?
cindy		C'mon, eat, you can't be late today.
frankie		I don't like it...
dean		Here... we can make it taste better.
cindy		Come on Frankie, use a spoon. You know how to use a spoon.
frankie		Lepers don't use spoons.
frankie		Five.
dean		Okay, eat five bites.
cindy		Look up for mommy... come on Frankie! We're gonna be late... look up.
frankie		I love you.
cindy		...Love you.
dean		Put your seat belt on.
feinberg		There you are.
cindy		Sorry...I'm almost done.
feinberg		You got a second? Did you get a chance to talk it over with your family yet?
cindy		Yeah... I'm going to.
feinberg		I don't have to tell you, it's a huge opportunity...
cindy		I know I know. I should know for sure by Monday.
feinberg		All right, Monday's our day. I want the A team up there with me. Talk it over.
cindy		I will.
dean		God's a woman and she's pissed off at me.
cindy		Do you want to know the sex?
cindy		Oh no...
dean		Didn't think you were gonna make it.
cindy		Did I miss her?
dean		Almost. Her class is coming up.
cindy		It was alright... Busy.
dean		Anything good happen?
cindy		I found Megan.
dean		That's great, where?
cindy		Over on Urbandale... near Spur.
dean		I told you you gotta close that fucking gate.
dean		You were great.
frankie		Did you find Megan?
dean		No. But... I was thinking... Maybe she got a job or something... You know? So she could make some money and buy some food. Or maybe she moved out to Hollywood to become a movie dog!
frankie		Yeah!
frankie		Pa!
cindy		Aren't you coming up?
dean		What? I can't smoke around his oxygen.
jerry		...Want me to show you a magic trick? Here's how you turn the grass green. You can teach it to your dad.
cindy		Go say goodbye to Daddy. You're not going to see him until tomorrow.
jerry		Wait...! OK...one, two, three GO!
dean		Hey leopard. You be good now. You remember what to do when Pa snores?
frankie		Cover his mouth and hold his nose.
dean		That's my girl. Gimme a squeezer.
jerry		It got you! Go right! OTHER RIGHT!
cindy		Come on silly. Let's go in and get dry.
frankie		I don't wanna take off my costume!
cindy		You don't have to. Let's just go in.
dean		Hey man... Can I have a slice of that pie?
jo		You're gonna have to speak with Mr. Saned, honey. Wait just a minute, okay.
saned		Normally we are busiest at the beginning of the month. You break your back for two weeks, you get 2 weeks to rest. That's normal. Days start early.  Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 12. 19 CONTINUED: 19
curtis		Whoa whoa. You gonna break your neck homey. Look down.
curtis		Gonna happen to you someday too.
curtis		I don't think that old man's been up here in 10 years.
dean		It's fucking pee!
curtis		How we s'posed to fit all this in here?
saned		Last one. Lets get a move on. Gotta make it home for the game.
dean		Look how handsome he was.
saned		What are you fucking queer?
dean		Wait up. We gotta do this right...
curtis		Boss says we gotta go. We gotta go.
cindy		What are we going to tell her?
dean		We'll tell her Monday. After the weekend. Let's not ruin her Holiday.
cindy		She would have wanted to say goodbye.
dean		You remember where we put...
cindy		What are you doing?
dean		Taking us away. We gotta get outta this house.  It's still good? Good... Well, what rooms do you got?...Hold on a minute...
cindy		You're crazy.
dean		You're not going to decide? I'll decide. That's how decisions get made.
cindy		Bobby Ontario?
bobby		...So, you been faithful to him?
cindy		That's a strange question to ask someone you haven't seen in forever.
bobby		I'm a strange person.
cindy		Yes.
bobby		Yes you have or yes you haven't?
cindy		Yes...I haven't. I mean I have...I have been...Why are you looking at me like that?
bobby		I'm not looking at you like anything.
cindy		Oh OK.
bobby		It's hard to be faithful. I don't know if monogamy is possible, especially if you're a man...
cindy		Who's this?
bobby		This is Taylor. He's two. Got a little girl at home. Irene.
cindy		Wow...
bobby		Kids are great. They pick up on things so fast. Like watch... Hey Spence, give me five... Give me five, buddy.
cindy		I know...
bobby		How's your kid?
cindy		She's good.
bobby		WHAT'S HER-
cindy		SHE'S GOT-
bobby		No, you go...
cindy		Oh... I was going to say, you ask her what kind of hair she's got and she says, a bob. It's pretty funny.
bobby		What's her name?
cindy		Frankie.
cindy		Oh...I'm sorry.
cindy		Can I put that back? I'm sorry...
bobby		I got it.
cindy		Nothankyou.  Just take it off please.
bobby		You can get me back.
cindy		Let's go.
dean		You're drivin'?
dean		Alright, lead foot. It's not a race.
cindy		Isn't it funny how you can be driving for 20 minutes and it feels like you've only been driving for 20 seconds. The time just gets swallowed up somewhere...
dean		Do you mind if I turn this back on?
cindy		I was kind of enjoying the silence.
dean		Let's just see if there's something on...
cindy		Think so.
dean		Where d'you get these?
cindy		There should be some fig newtons back there.
dean		Which bag?
cindy		You have to look.
dean		Mmm. These are good.
cindy		I have to pee.
dean		You can't wait? We're almost there.
cindy		I gotta go.
dean		Goddamnit Cindy!! Pay attention!!!
cindy		...Hello?
bobby		What are you doing?
cindy		Research.
bobby		You're supposed to be a quadriplegic?
cindy		Quads can't use their arms. I'm a paraplegic.
bobby		Don't I give you enough attention?
cindy		I can't. I have to go get gramma.
bobby		Gimme a sec.
cindy		Get down Napoleon! Get down!
glenda		Ope - I thought you were your Dad.
cindy		Just us.
glenda		How was the beauty shop?
jerry		Get that fucking dog out of the kitchen!
gramma		Thank you.
cindy		It's OK mom.
glenda		Can I have your plate Dad?
jerry		What'd you do to meatloaf? Huh?!
glenda		They had it ready-made in the deli. I... thought it looked good.
jerry		Are you kidding me? How long does it take to make a meatloaf? Five minutes? You mean to tell me that you didn't have five minutes to make a meatloaf? I been up since six this morning busting my fucking ass and you don't have five minutes to make a meatloaf?
glenda		I thought it would be nice.
jerry		Nice?
glenda		...for a change...
jerry		Well, what gave you the idea that any of us needed a change? Did you ask for a change? Cindy? She doesn't ask for anything... She doesn't talk. You didn't ask for a change, did you mom?...She can't hear! And I don't remember asking for a change. So, it was you, wasn't it? You wanted a change. I work all day so you can sit on your fat ass, thinkin' about yourself. How you'd like a change.
glenda		Sorry.
jerry		Sorry? What good is sorry now?
glenda		Do you want me to make you some eggs?
jerry		I want you to enjoy your fucking dinner.
cindy		It's not bad.
glenda		Oh bullshit.
gramma francis		Don't get my hair.
bobby		I couldn't help it.
bobby		It's your fault. You felt too good.
cindy		Give em!
bobby		Say you're sorry!
cindy		Take a deep whiff, you fucking douchebag!
bobby		I was just joking! God!
omitted		58 58
gramma		What is it?  Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 30A. B61 CONTINUED: B61
cindy		It looks like you have a new neighbor.
gramma		Glenda... I mean Cindy... can I have a cigarette?
cindy		No, Gramma, you're in bed now. It's bedtime. Do you want me to keep reading?
gramma		Cindy. Have you got a cigarette!
cindy		Okay, shhh. But you gotta be quiet.
cindy		No.
dean		You do. No, you do. I know that you do. And the reason that I know that you do is - I have stolen money before... a lot of it. And I know what it feels like to have someone look at you like that...
cindy		Like what?
dean		The way your lookin'. Just so you know, I have a job where I make money. Money that I can take girls out on dates with.
cindy		Are you trying to pick up on me?
dean		Maybe...
dean		Can I give you my number or something.
dean		Wow. Where are we?
dean		Now watch.
cindy		Did Pa make you something to eat yet? ...Frankie? ...What'd you and Pa eat? ...Was it cooked all the way through? No pink in there? ...
dean		Are you ready to go to sleep now? I'll call you first thing in the morning, OK?
dean		What are you doing?
cindy		What does it look like I'm doing?
dean		Do you like the place?
cindy		It's fine.
dean		I'm gonna go order dinner now.
cindy		Fine!
dean		Any special requests?
cindy		Close the door!
dean		What does it look like I'm doing?
cindy		Dean.
dean		I remember the first time I saw your back.
cindy		What do you remember?
dean		Everything.
cindy		Okay.
dean		Getting thinner, isn't it?
cindy		Your hair is not falling out.
dean		I know. I love you.
cindy		Okay, get out. I have to finish washing myself.
dean		I'll do it.
cindy		No. Go order dinner. I'm hungry.
dean		Wait, I didn't wash your hair...
dean		We have neighbors.
cindy		Grump. Grump.
dean		Thanks.
bobby		Hasn't anyone ever been nice to you?
dean		Anyone call for me?
dean		Hi. I was looking for your neighbor... the man who moved in last month. Across the hall. Do you know what happened to him?
gramma		He went out for groceries.
dean		What about the girl that was with you?
gramma		Who?
dean		Hi.
cindy		Hi.
dean		I just had a long talk with your gramma... is that, is that your gramma?
cindy		I think he passed away.
dean		That's exactly what happened to my dog. My parents moved out of our house and three days later she was a goner.
cindy		She was pretty too..
dean		She must have been crazy.
cindy		Why do you say that?
dean		Cause there's one thing I know... the prettier a girl is the more nuts she is. I mean, look at you... you must be insane.
cindy		Excuse me?
dean		It's okay, I mean, I get it. It's not your fault.
cindy		Home.
dean		Can I walk with you?
dean		Where's you house?
cindy		We passed it.
dean		Where?
cindy		Back there...
dean		Do you think it would be okay if I looked in your purse?
cindy		No.
dean		Why?
cindy		Books. Mostly.
dean		Lot of books. You doing good?
cindy		We'll see.
dean		What are you gonna be when you grow up?
cindy		I'm trying to get into med school.
dean		You going to be a doctor?
cindy		Someday.
dean		Oh yeah? What should I do about this?
cindy		Don't do it.
cindy		You wanna put on my lotion?
dean		This is what your lips smell like? They must smell good.
cindy		Are you fucking with me?
dean		No.
dean		What's in there?
cindy		Okay enough...
dean		Why?
cindy		Because.
cindy		Aren't you gonna miss your train?
dean		Probably. I think I... I think I already did. It's okay. There's an early one.
cindy		You are just gonna stay up all night?
dean		Until you get tired...
dean		Where'd you grow up?
cindy		Here.
dean		Here?
cindy		Same streets. Same people. Everything here is the same. You walk down the street, you can't get lost... you know. .  Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 46. 91 CONTINUED: 91
dean		Where do you want to go? I mean, if you could go anywhere..
cindy		There!
dean		Oh God... I hate these things.
cindy		Push me.
dean		What happened, tough guy?
cindy		Make it stop.
dean		You gotta puke... it's the only way.
cindy		I'm still spinning.
dean		Me too.
cindy		Maybe it's just the Earth that's spinning.
dean		Yeah. We're flying.
dean		To honesty...
cindy		We're toasting tonight?
dean		How is it?
cindy		Good. How did Frankie sound?
dean		Great. She's the best.
cindy		She didn't sound sad?
dean		Naw. She's the champ. She's the best parts of you and the best parts of me put together. Everyday she gets more and more amazing.
cindy		Daddy's little girl.
dean		She's not mine. I'm hers.
cindy		That's beautiful.
dean		It's the choice I made when she was born.
cindy		Why don't you do something...
dean		Like what?
cindy		I don't know... isn't there anything you want to do?
dean		What am I supposed to want to do?
cindy		I don't know... You have so many things you could do. You're good at everything. You could do anything you wanted.
dean		I just wanna be with you.
cindy		Like right before the bear eats the man?
dean		Yeah... You do. It's true. That's what you look like.
cindy		How different we are. You and me.
dean		Different?
cindy		It's a good thing.
dean		You think that's good that we're different?
cindy		Absolutely. We don't have to get in each other's way.
dean		And that's the way you like it, don't you? You don't like me to bother you.
cindy		I didn't say that. What I meant is that it's important for us to have our space. That's all. We're grown people.
dean		Well there's not much space here. So I guess you won't be able to get away from me will ya?
cindy		You know, we rarely sit down and have a conversation. An adult conversation. Because every time we do, you turn something that I say around and make it mean something that I didn't mean to say. You just blab. Blab.
dean		If you're not interested in hearing what I think I just won't say anything.
cindy		Good luck. I just want you to think about what you say sometimes instead of saying what you think all the time.
dean		OK. I'm going to say something. And what I'm about to say I've thought long and hard about. I'm the luckiest person alive because I'm living my dream - you, her, this, us, all of it.
cindy		I think my glass has a hole in it.
dean		What's wrong with that?
cindy		It's fat.
dean		That's the flavor. Eat it.
cindy		I don't want to. You eat it.
dean		My tits? I got tits?
cindy		Shiiit. I bet you a nickel you can't even beat me at arm wrestling.
dean		A dime and you're on.
cindy		Ready?
dean		I'm always ready, baby.
cindy		On the count of three... One... Two...
dean		Come on. Go! Start.
dean		Hold still.
cindy		Ow ow ow.
dean		You think we should rush you to the hospital before you bleed to death?
cindy		It stings a little.
dean		Wait wait wait.
cindy		I'm spinning.
dean		Drink up. We haven't gotten loaded together in years.
cindy		What are you doing in there? ...Dean?!
cindy		Ew. Come on, get up.
dean		Nope, I want you to come here first. I want you to laugh.
cindy		What?
dean		Not being retarded.
cindy		Dean... Come on, it's time for bed.
dean		No I want to make you laugh.
cindy		You're drunk.
dean		No, I'm just still in love with you.
cindy		No... Dean... Wait a second.
dean		What!? I can't have sex with my wife!?
cindy		Stop... stop... stop...
dean		Is that what you think you deserve? Would that make it easier on you so you can treat me like this?
cindy		Are my hands cold?
dean		Yes.
cindy		You wanna go somewhere.
dean		Sure.
cindy		Where can we go?
cindy		You think he's gonna go to sleep now?
cindy		Just a second...
cindy		Give it back!
dean		Are you okay?
dean		Is it mine?
cindy		I... I don't know... It might be...
dean		You let that asshole knock you up?
cindy		...I'm sorry...I'm sorry...
dean		When'd this happen?
cindy		Before us.
dean		What do you want to do?
cindy		I don't know.
dean		 We'll keep it. We'll take care of it.
cindy		It's not the right time.
dean		Do you want to take care of it?
doctor		You can put your clothes on the chair.
cindy		Okay...
doctor		I'm going to have you lie up here, and put your feet in the stirrups.
cindy		Yeah.
doctor		I want you to try and relax. This is going to be a little cold.
cindy		I'm a student...
doctor		What are you studying?
cindy		I'm studying to be a DOCTOR...
doctor		That's what I studied.
cindy		What's that?
doctor		This is a mild anesthetic for your cervix. You're going to feel a pinch and then it's going to feel like electricity.
cindy		Because... I always thought... it would be wonderful to take a sick child and...
doctor		And what?
cindy		...heal them...
doctor		Cindy, I'm going to begin the procedure. It won't take long. You may feel a little cramping.
cindy		Wait... wait.
dean		You're not in this alone. This baby is ours. It's us. Let's start a family.
cindy		Your eyes ever wide open, and you're dreaming?
cindy		Shit.
cindy		Goodbye.
dean		Cynthia!
message		Good morning. This is your...11:30 a.m...wake up call.
dean		OK.
dean		Was she with a guy?
concierge		Like I said, I couldn't say. I just got here, so maybe she left before I came in.
amanda		You want some of this?
bobby		Hey faggot!
dean		Who's askin'?
bobby		Think I'm dumb? Think I'm that dumb?
dean		I think you're a fucking idiot.
bobby		Fucking faggot!
bobby		Stay away from her!
dean		Never.
jo		Dean... Telephone.
dean		Hello?
cindy		Mediplex... You are going to need to come in... We're going to need to see him... I can't diagnose over the phone... About 20- 30 minutes... Okay? ...okay, bye...
cindy		Have a seat on the table, Mrs. Guevara.
maria		Small.
cindy		Poquito?
maria		Si.
cindy		Yo tabien. De donde eres tu?
maria		El Salvador.
cindy		So...Tu famalia esta aqui? Here?
maria		No no.
cindy		They're in El Salvador?
maria		Si....Yo...sola. How you say en Ingles? Sola?
cindy		Uh...Sola...Alone.
maria		Si. Alone.
cindy		But hopefully not lonely.
maria		Si Si.
cindy		Well let's take a look.
cindy		A woman in 215. Hispanic. 53. Lives alone. Complaining of pain in her left breast.
cindy		Oh yeah?
cindy		I'm married.
cindy		I don't remember asking you for help.
cindy		What's the problem, Maria? Tu sabes?
cindy		Her breast. Her breast!
cindy		It's probably been growing for years!
mimi		 Ma'am you're going to have to bring him in...you have to bring him in...
dean		Where's my wife?
mimi		You need to fill that out, sir. You can go over there.
dean		There's nothing wrong with me.
mimi		No, you need to fill it out, sir. Bring it back up to me when you're done.
dean		Where's my wife?
mimi		Who's your wife?
dean		Cynthia. Where is she?
mimi		Are you Dean?
dean		Yeah, are you deaf or are you just dumb?
cindy		Dean?
cindy		I can see that. How'd you get here?
dean		I got a ride.
cindy		Frankie's fine...
dean		Taking pictures?
cindy		We're not going to do this here.
mimi		I'll be right here. Don't let him brainwash you again.
cindy		Live your life.
dean		Last night got fucked up, OK? I know it. I know I'm lazy, I eat too much, I drink too much, I drive you crazy with all my jealous bullshit. I fuck up. I know I'm clumsy. But you're not trying anymore.
cindy		Are you drunk?
dean		I'm OK.
cindy		Can you drive?
dean		Yeah. Let's go.
cindy		No, you go. Take the car home.
dean		You don't think about anyone but yourself. Do you?
cindy		You know how many sacrifices I make every day.
dean		You! What about me? I gave up everything for you.
cindy		I never asked you to! I can't take this shit anymore.
dean		Take what? What can't you take... The truth? I know you can't... You never could.
cindy		You're right Dean, I can't take the truth...I've had it with the truth or whatever it is you make up along the way and label as truth... You win. I give up... I've been lying to you for a long time.
dean		Who is it?
cindy		It's me, Dean. I didn't want to hurt you. But I'm not the person you fell in love with. And you won't let me be anything but that person. That's why I can't look at you. Because every time I do I can't stop thinking about how much I want you to hate me. But you're too stupid to see it, and too chicken shit to do anything about it.
dean		Wait a second...
cindy		I don't love you anymore... Why can't you stop loving me?
feinberg		What the hell is going on!?
cindy		I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let me see.
feinberg		You're done. Leave.
dean		Get up.
cindy		You son of a bitch!
mimi		Oh my god. Call 911. I'm going to call
cindy		Give me the keys.
dean		I know!
dean		I didn't know if it was pot luck so I brought an eggplant.
cindy		Oh God.
dean		I stole these for you.
cindy		Are you okay?
cindy		Does that hurt.
dean		No. It feels good. Keep doing it.
dean		Maybe I should go.
cindy		Why? They'll stop soon.
dean		I'm going to miss my train.
cindy		Good.
dean		Okay.
cindy		That motherfucker.
dean		I love you.
cindy		I love you too.
dean		Really?
cindy		Yeah.
dean		Are your parent's gonna walk in on us?
cindy		They never come in here.
frankie		Daddy! Daddy! Mommy!
cindy		Who had candy for breakfast?  Blue Valentine Official Green Script as of 6/9/09 83. 137 CONTINUED: 137
dean		Hey sweetheart.
cindy		How was Frankie?
jerry		She was good. Are you OK?
cindy		I'm OK.
jerry		I don't know what happened up there. But please Dean, come on. Don't push it. Let it be...
dean		Keep an eye on Francis.
jerry		I don't have my oxygen! Hey!
cindy		I'm not coming home.
dean		We're not alone here Cynthia. We have a little girl. We need to think about her.
cindy		I am thinking about her.
dean		All you're thinking about is yourself. You. Francis is gonna grow up in a broken home and that's OK with you.
cindy		I can't let her grow up in a home where her parents don't love each other.
dean		Don't love each other? I've only ever loved you.
dean		...Cynthia...Cynthia...
frankie		I want to stay at Grampa's house next time for fifty nights.
dean		Thank you...
frankie		Daddy!
cindy		Let her go, Dad.
justice		... you may now kiss the bride.
****Dialogues from script :Blue_Velvet.txt****

gregg's mother		 Gregg. Billy's waiting for his teddy.
gregg's mother		 GREGG! Billy's waiting for his teddy, honey.
college boy		Louise? Where's Jeffrey? His mother's on the phone - it's an emergency.
louise		He disappeared to the men's room a little while ago. I'm getting very tired of waiting - let's go find him.
jeffrey		Hey, shit head. Leave her alone. Don't force girls!
college boy		Jeffrey, your mother's on the phone. It's an emergency.
louise		Thanks for keeping me waiting so long.
jeffrey		I'm sorry, Louise.
jeffrey		Hello. Mom? What's wrong with Dad?. What's happening?. Come home? Sure I will.
jeffrey		For good?. I can't. Mom. Not right in the middle of the term.
jeffrey		 Mom.
jeffrey		Can't you come to the damn airport?
louise		Jeffrey. I can't. I really can't. I have to go to that class tonight. I can't get out of it. I really can't. I love you, Jeffrey. I'll miss you.
jeffrey		Alright. I'll call you in a couple of days, you know. I'll let you know how things are.
louise		Okay. I'll be here. You better git-going. I gotta go too sweetie. I hope your father's okay. I love you. I'm sorry, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		I love you too, Louise. Damn it. I'll see you.
jeffrey		Hi Mom. Hi Aunt Barbara.
jeffrey		This is it.
jeffrey		I sent a trunk home yesterday. This is all I have.
aunt barbara		You look good, Jeffrey. Did you have a nice flight?
jeffrey		Yeah. How's Dad?
aunt barbara		They tore down the A & P, Jeffrey. Did you see that?
jeffrey		Aunt Barbara that was 5 years ago.
aunt barbara		Home again, home again, jiggidy jog.
aunt barbara		This is marvelous jam. Are you going this morning?
jeffrey		What time are visiting hours?
jeffrey		Well. Okay.
jeffrey		Yeah?
jeffrey		What?
jeffrey		Thanks a lot, Mom.
aunt barbara		I think it's important not to get depressed. Depression is a terrible thing. They say it can bring on illness.
jeffrey		 Aunt Barbara. I'll try not to get depressed.
nurse cindy		Please wait outside while Dr. Gynde prepares him to see you.
jeffrey		Prepares him?
jeffrey		Hello, Doctor Gynde. How is he?
nurse cindy		 Mr. Beaumont! Your son is here to visit you.
jeffrey		 Hi Dad.
jeffrey		Looks like they've got you strapped in pretty good.
jeffrey		Are you feeling okay?
jeffrey		 It's good to see you, Dad.
jeffrey		Hello. could you tell me if Detective Williams is still working here?
jeffrey		Are you Detective Williams?
detective williams		Yes.
jeffrey		My name is Jeffrey Beaumont - I live near you. I believe you know my father, Tom Beaumont - Beaumont's Hardware Store?
detective williams		Sure I do. I understand he's in the hospital. How is he?
jeffrey		He's alright, I guess. I hope. They're doing tests, that's why I'm home from school. I was over at the hospital this morning and I was going home and in the field behind our neighborhood. there behind Vista, I found an ear.
detective williams		 You did? A human ear?
jeffrey		Yeah. I've got it here in this bag. I thought I should bring it to you.
detective williams		Yep, that's right. Let's take a look at it.
detective williams		 That sure looks like a human ear, doesn't it?. Let's run it down to the Coroner's Office and see what they make of it. Then, I want you to show me exactly where you found it.
coroner's officer		The tests will take awhile. Meanwhile, we'll check the morgue records. I don't recall anything coming in minus an ear.
coroner's officer		 Now if you'd found a jaw or let's say, a heart, or even an arm, we would assume that there was a corpse, however, a finger or an ear. the person may very well be alive somewhere.
jeffrey		What can you tell about the person from the ear?
coroner's officer		Well. when the tests are done, quite a lot . Sex, blood type, whether or not the ear came off a dead person. Right now, I know what you know. It's a real human ear. The human was, or is, Caucasian. . also. It looks like the ear was cut off with scissors.
detective williams		By the way, Jeffrey, this story isn't going to the press and I'm going to ask you to consider all you've heard strictly confidential. Do not discuss this business with anyone, but me, or other police personnel. Got it?
jeffrey		Got it. Thanks for letting me in on as much as you did.
detective williams		Come on. I'll drive you home. It's on my way.
jeffrey		Hello?. LOUISE WERTHAM please. Louise? . is she there?. Louise?  What have you been up to?. Louise, I don't know. I've got to see how my father is . It costs a fortune in that hospital. When did he ask you to that?. Look. I can't stop you. Go ahead. Just go ahead . I may never be back, go. ahead. Look Louise, stop trying to explain everything. Just do it. let's talk again in a couple of days or somethin', okay?. Yeah, I still love you. Goodbye Louise. Goodbye.
jeffrey		I'm going out for awhile.
jeffrey		No, I'm just gonna walk around.
aunt barbara		Jeffrey. you're not going down by Lincoln, are you?
jeffrey		 No. I'm just going to walk around the neighborhood. Don't worry.
jeffrey		Hello. uh. my name is Jeffrey Beaumont. Is Detective Williams in?
jeffrey		I just wanted to ask him a few questions, that's all. Maybe I better go.
jeffrey		 Alright.
jeffrey		Yeah, I know.
jeffrey		No. No thank you.
jeffrey		Yeah. okay.
sandy		Mike's gotta go.  Nice to meet you.
mike		Yeah, nice meetin' yuh.
jeffrey		Yeah. It was nice meeting you too.
jeffrey		 Yeah.
detective williams		Oh. Hello, Jeffrey. what's up?
detective williams		Come into the study a minute.
jeffrey		 Excuse me, Mrs. Williams.
detective williams		 Shut the door.
detective williams		 But. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you not only not to tell anyone about your find, but also not to ask more about the case. One day. when it's all sewed up, I'll let you know all the details. Right now, though. I can't.
jeffrey		I understand. I'm just real curious like you said.
detective williams		I was the same way when I was you age. I guess that's what got me into this business.
jeffrey		It must be great.
detective williams		And it's horrible too.  I'm sorry Jeffrey. That's the way it has to be. Anyway. I'm sure you do understand.
jeffrey		 Mrs. Williams? Thanks for the cake.
jeffrey		Say "goodnight" to Sandy.
detective williams		We will. Good night.
sandy		Are you the one that found the ear.
jeffrey		Yeah, how did you know?
sandy		 I just know, that's all. I remember you from Central.
jeffrey		Oh yeah?
sandy		You were pretty popular. Didn't you run for some office?
jeffrey		Yeah I did. treasurer. Shouldn't you be studying or something.
sandy		Am I bothering you?
jeffrey		No. You're not bothering me. You a senior?
sandy		Yes.
jeffrey		How is Central these days?
sandy		Terrible. boring.
jeffrey		What else is new?. right?
sandy		Yeah. What are you doing now?
jeffrey		I'm home from school. My father's in the hospital.
sandy		That's too bad.
jeffrey		What do you know about the ear?. anything?
sandy		Didn't my father tell you not to talk about it? 
jeffrey		Come on. you brought it up. Do you know anything?
sandy		I don't really know much but bits and pieces . I hear things. My room is right above my father's office. The ear. there's no corpse in the morgue missing an ear, and it did come off a living person. That's direct from the Coroner's Office. The person is unknown. There are a couple of cases I get mixed up on, but I think there are some people who were brought in for questioning on a murder case that could have something to do with the ear. I heard some of the same names.
jeffrey		Do you know who was brought in for questioning?
sandy		There were at least three, maybe four. But a name that keeps coming up is this woman who lives in an apartment building very close to your house and also close to the field where you found the ear. There's also a business man over by the Franklin factory district that was questioned. and a musician. and some others.
jeffrey		Were all these people questioned this afternoon?
sandy		No. this has been going on for some time . several months. About six months ago some parts of bodies were found down by the river. They were from people who were reported missing. They never found one complete body. only parts.
jeffrey		The ear is from a missing person maybe?
sandy		Maybe so.
jeffrey		It's a strange world isn't it? Do you know what building the woman lives in?
sandy		Yeah. It's close by. that's what's creepy. They've had her under surveillance for a couple of months, except I don't know what they've found out because my father isn't in charge of her.
jeffrey		I guess you have to get back home soon?
sandy		Not really, why?  You want to see the building?. Come on, I'll show you.
sandy		 That's the building. She lives on the Seventh Floor. Don't stop to look long . the police are watching.
jeffrey		Where are they?
sandy		I don't know. you're not supposed to see them. They're supposed to see you.
jeffrey		Did they find out anything when they questioned her?
sandy		I don't know. like I said, she's not my father's case.
jeffrey		Oh yeah. What about those other people? . Anything?
sandy		My father is watching the businessman. The businessman had a partner who disappeared. left his whole business and family, his wife and two kids. They think he's been murdered.
jeffrey		You really do hear a lot, don't you?
sandy		Yeah, I guess so.  What are you going to do now that you're home?
jeffrey		I have to help out in my father's hardware store. they're giving me sort of my own hours for a while. which is nice.
sandy		Still, it must be kinda rough.
jeffrey		It's not bad. but it's bad enough. it's a lot worse for my father.  I used to know a kid who lived there and who had the biggest tongue in the world.
sandy		What happened to him?
jeffrey		I don't know. he moved away.
sandy		I've gotta go in.
jeffrey		Thanks for the tour. It was nice talking to you.
jeffrey		 I guess I'll see you sometime.
sandy		I guess so. Like you said. It's a strange world.
jeffrey		 Yeah. Good bye.
jeffrey		Hey, Ed, okay if I borrow these bug spraying rigs later on?
ed		Listen Bud. If you need to spray for bugs they're yours.  It causes me no pain.
jeffrey		Okidoke Ed. Thanks.
jeffrey		You hungry or thirsty, or both?
sandy		 I don't know.
jeffrey		I'd like to talk to you about something.
sandy		Just a minute. pull over and wait a minute.
sandy		 Please, don't say anything to Mike. promise?
jeffrey		I don't want to cause any trouble.
sandy		I'm here, aren't I?
jeffrey		 I guess Mike's got some sort of sports practice in the afternoon.
sandy		Ooooo, you are smart. Just don't get too smart.
sandy		Alright, now tell me. What is it?
jeffrey		There are opportunities in life for gaining knowledge and experience. sometimes, in some cases. it's necessary to take a risk. I got to thinking. I'll bet a person could learn a lot by getting into that woman's apartment. you know. sneak in and hide and observe.
sandy		You said it was a strange world. and you're the strangest part of it. Are you crazy.she is possibly involved in murder. This gives me the creeps.
jeffrey		Settle down. I have a plan which I think will work. There is very little for you to do, but I do need your help. .Aren't you curious about my plan?
sandy		 It wouldn't hurt to hear the plan, I guess.
jeffrey		 Alright. the first thing is to get into her apartment and open a window that I could crawl into later.
sandy		Now, how are you going to do that?
jeffrey		Right out in the car I happen to have some old overalls and a bug spraying rig. I will go to her apartment and be the pest control man. I will spray her apartment. After a few minutes you will knock on her door, drawing her attention away from me and I will then jimmy a window.
sandy		What will I say when she comes to the door?
jeffrey		You will be a Jehovah's Witness. I have a few "Awake" magazines for you. You don't have to keep her very long. a few seconds is all I'll need. Whatiya think?
sandy		I don't know. it sounds like a good daydream, . but actually doing it is too weird. too dangerous.
jeffrey		Let's just try the first part. If that goes well, we'll see about the rest. No one will suspect us, because no one would believe two people like us would be crazy enough to do something like this.
sandy		You've got a point there.
jeffrey		Now. we'll walk over so there's no license plates and you give me at least three minutes. I can stall if it's more, but I need time to find a good window .alright?
sandy		Alright.
jeffrey		Let's go.
jeffrey		Okay, I'm going ahead. Wait a minute, what's her name?
sandy		Oh bother. Dorothy Vallens, Seventh Floor.  Look on the mailbox for her number, bright boy.
jeffrey		Thanks. Dorothy Vallens. Okay. good luck . three minutes, no sooner.
sandy		Alright. Good luck, yourself.
old lady		Well, it's about time you came.
jeffrey		 That's a good sign.
dorothy		Yes? What is it?
jeffrey		Pest control. gotta do your apartment.
dorothy		Oh God, that stuff stinks.
jeffrey		 Nope. it's new stuff. no smell.
dorothy		Oh yeah, that's good.
dorothy		What is this. Grand Central Station?
jeffrey		 That oughta do it.
dorothy		Yeah.
sandy		Are you alright?
jeffrey		Yeah. let's get outta here. What happened?
sandy		I was just about to go to the door, when that man did my job for me. Was it alright?
jeffrey		Yes and no. Did you recognize him?
sandy		No. I only saw his back. He went down another stairwell at the end of the hall.
jeffrey		I didn't get a good look at him either, but he sure looked at me. I didn't have time to get a window, but I found this key.  Pretty nifty, huh?
sandy		Yeah, if it opens the door.
jeffrey		Yeah.
jeffrey		You go first.
sandy		So. what's next?
jeffrey		Pretty clever. Are you game for more?
sandy		I owe you. since I goofed up this one.
jeffrey		You didn't goof it up, but. you still owe me one. I want to sneak in tonight. It's Friday. do you have a date tonight?
sandy		Yes. I do.
jeffrey		Well, it's Friday night and you're a beautiful girl. I guess you would have a date. that does that.
sandy		You really want to do this, don't you?
jeffrey		I don't want you to get involved, really, I mean, I do, but if something went wrong I mean, like you said, they may be involved in murder.
sandy		 I'll tell Mike I'm sick. There's a game tonight anyway and he'll never miss me. Afterwards he can go out with the guys. Just so the record is kept straight though, I love Mike. What do want me to do?
jeffrey		 First of all, we'll have a nice dinner. Try to find out where Dorothy sings.
sandy		I already know. The "Slow Club." It's on
jeffrey		Great. I'll pick you up around eight o'clock. Is that good?
sandy		Yeah, but don't pick me up. my father may think it's strange. I'll walk over to your house. I'll be there at eight o'clock.
jeffrey		Okay. You better get out before someone sees us.
jeffrey		See ya!
aunt barbara		I'll see to it, Bill.
jeffrey		Doctor Gynde. my whole family's sick. What's going on?
aunt barbara		I'm not sick.
aunt barbara		 We'll see who stays in my will.
jeffrey		 Can I use the car tonight?
sandy		What's the plan.
jeffrey		First of all, we're going to the Slow Club to see Dorothy Vallens. We'll watch her for awhile. I'd like to hear her sing anyway, and then also we'll know she is there and not in her apartment.
sandy		Brilliant.
jeffrey		Then we'll drive back to her apartment and I will plant myself there.
sandy		This is not my usual Friday night!
jeffrey		Yeah. Could we get a small table in the back?
jeffrey		I'd like an ice-cold Heineken.
sandy		 That sounds good.
jeffrey		Two.
jeffrey		 When does Dorothy Vallens come on?
waiter		 I don't know. pretty soon. Who knows.
sandy		That guy was filled with information.
jeffrey		 Here's to. an interesting experience.
sandy		I'll drink to that.
sandy		Jeffrey, I don't think you ought to do it.
jeffrey		Why not?
sandy		It's crazy and dangerous. My God. I shouldn't have told you.
jeffrey		It'll be okay. I don't think you should wait out here though. I think you should go home. Can you drive this car?
sandy		Yeah. but.
jeffrey		Leave it in the front of your house for me. okay?
sandy		O.K.
jeffrey		Could you wait a little while. this key may not fit.
sandy		. I wish you wouldn't do this.  It doesn't make any sense. Let's go somewhere and have some coffee.
jeffrey		I'm going in, Sandy. I'll see you tomorrow and tell you how it went.
sandy		I. I don't want to see you tomorrow. Mike's coming over.
jeffrey		Oh, okay. can I call?
sandy		Okay. yeah, call.
jeffrey		Look. it can wait till Sunday.
sandy		Call tomorrow. It's okay. Good luck. I hope you can sneak out okay. You're going to wait until she's asleep?
jeffrey		Yeah.
sandy		I'm going to wait here until she comes.
jeffrey		Are you sure?
sandy		I'll honk four times so you'll hear it and know she's on her way up. Okay?
jeffrey		Okay. thanks.
sandy		I don't know if you're a detective or a pervert.
jeffrey		That's for me to know and for you to find out. I'll see you. I mean call you. okay?
sandy		Okay, okay. Bye.
jeffrey		 Oh no, hurry up Dorothy. Come on!. and I gotta pee. Great. it's now or never.
jeffrey		Heineken.
dorothy		Goodnight.
jimmy		Goodnight now.
dorothy		 Hello. yes. yes sir, Frank. Let me talk to him. Please Frank, sir. I like to sing Blue Velvet. Don? It's okay. Don't worry. Don??. can you hear me? Is little Donny OK? Is he there? Don? You mean Meadow Lane? Frank?! What's the matter with him? I know. When? Okay. In an hour. I'll be sweet. Momma loves you. Okay Frank, sir.
dorothy		 Frank, you son of a bitch!
dorothy		 GET OUT OF THERE!! GET OUT!! Put your hands up, on your head. GO ON!! Get down on your knees - DO IT!! What are you doing? Who are you? What's your name?. WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
jeffrey		Jeffrey.
dorothy		Jeffrey. Jeffrey what?
jeffrey		Jeffrey nothing.
dorothy		You tell me!! Let me see that wallet.  Jeffrey Beaumont. What're you doing in my apartment, Jeffrey Beaumont?
jeffrey		I wanted to see you.
dorothy		What? Are you kidding me? Who sent you here?
jeffrey		Nobody.
dorothy		Shit. You better tell me something.
jeffrey		I was. an experiment. Just to see if I could do it.
dorothy		An experiment? Hey, I've seen you before.
jeffrey		I sprayed your apartment. I took your key. I really didn't mean to do anything but see you.
dorothy		Tell me what you saw tonight. TELL ME.
jeffrey		 . I saw you come in, talk on the phone. get undressed.
dorothy		 The phone. What did you hear on the phone . Tell me. Word for word.
jeffrey		 You said hello. to Frank. You wanted to talk to someone?. Don?. and little Donny. You said something about Momma loves you. and something about a Meadow Lane. something in an hour. I don't remember any more.
dorothy		That's right. That's what I said. You have a good memory. Then what?
jeffrey		Well.
dorothy		THEN WHAT?
jeffrey		Then you got undressed.
dorothy		How many times have you sneaked into girls' apartments and watched them undress?
jeffrey		 Never before this.
dorothy		How'd you like it if someone sneaked into your house and watched you.  Get undressed. I want to see you.
jeffrey		No. Come on.
dorothy		NO, you come on. Take off your pants. I want to see you.
jeffrey		Look. I'm sorry. Just let me leave.
dorothy		No way.
dorothy		Get undressed. I want to see you.
dorothy		STAND UP.
dorothy		 Come closer.
dorothy		 What do you want from me?
jeffrey		 I . I don't know.
dorothy		 What do you want?
dorothy		Don't move. don't look at me.
dorothy		Do you like that?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		Don't move or I'll kill you.
dorothy		 Do you like talk like that?
jeffrey		No.
dorothy		Lie down on the bed.
dorothy		 Shut up. Hurry! Go in the closet. Don't say anything or you'll get killed. I mean it.
dorothy		Hello, baby.
frank		 Shut up. It's daddy. shithead.
dorothy		Hello, daddy.
frank		 . my bourbon.
frank		. sit down. get your chair.
frank		 . spread your legs.
frank		wider.
frank		 . mommy.
frank		 . MOMMY!.
dorothy		 . mommy's here.
frank		 Baby wants to fuck.
frank		 GET READY TO FUCK!
frank		 Baby wants blue velvet.
dorothy		 Okay.
frank		Don't look at me!
frank		Don't look at me!!!  Daddy's home.
frank		 Don't look at me!!!
frank		Stay alive baby. See you next Christmas!
jeffrey		Why don't you come lie down. Come on, I'll help you.
dorothy		Don't.  I don't like that. What do you want?
jeffrey		Nothing. Are you alright?
dorothy		Sure I'm alright. 
jeffrey		I'll go then.
dorothy		Don?
jeffrey		No.
dorothy		Don. Hold me. I'm scared. Hold me. Please.
dorothy		 Thank you. honey.
jeffrey		 It's okay. It's okay.
dorothy		Do you like the way I feel?
jeffrey		 Yes.
dorothy		See my breasts?  . See?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		See my nipples?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		 You can kiss them if you want. Fell them . They're getting hard.
dorothy		 Go ahead. I don't mind.
dorothy		Feel me.
dorothy		You can hit me, if you want to.
jeffrey		No. please. I won't.
jeffrey		Stop it!
dorothy		 Do you like me?
jeffrey		 Yes, I like you.
dorothy		 You can be my special friend and come and put that in me.
jeffrey		What's the matter?
dorothy		Get off me.
dorothy		I made it go down the toilet.
jeffrey		What?
dorothy		I made it go down the toilet.
jeffrey		 What was it?
dorothy		 Do you know?
jeffrey		No.
dorothy		 You don't?
jeffrey		No. What is happening?
dorothy		Maybe you don't know. I know you though. You're Jeffrey Beaumont and I know where you live and I know ways to get you and I know ways to kill you.
jeffrey		Please don't talk like that. You're upset. I'm not helping you. I'm sorry for what I did. I better go.
dorothy		Go then. I can't let you put it in me now but I want you. I like you.
jeffrey		Then don't talk about killing.
dorothy		Did I say that?. I didn't mean it. or did I?  I want to die.
jeffrey		Don't say that.
dorothy		It's a secret so don't tell anyone. Some day I'll show you where. I've gotta go to sleep now.
jeffrey		 O.K.
jeffrey		I'm leaving now.
dorothy		 Help me. help me. please help me.
jeffrey		 God. you scared me.
jeffrey		Nothing. I'm fine.
jeffrey		Louise Wertham, please. okay.  Well, Louise, I wish you a lot of luck and if things don't work out, I think you should go into comedy.
jeffrey		 How can I help her? I can't tell her to go to Detective Williams. She'll think I'm a policeman. She has my address. She can go there. if she has to. I'll tell her. and her. and she thinks I'm Don. her husband? Where the hell is Don? - maybe he died.
jeffrey		Hello?. Mrs. Williams?. This is Jeffrey Beaumont. Fine. Okay. Is Sandy there? Okay. Hi Sandy. Can you talk? He is?. Well, I guess I'll talk to you later on. It went okay. I'll tell you about it. Dinner?. Tomorrow night? Seven o'clock, yeah, sounds good. Okay. he's still in the hospital. Okay, yeah. See you tomorrow. thanks.
jeffrey		A table in back, please.
jeffrey		I'll have an ice-cold Heineken.
jeffrey		 I'll bet I know where you're going.
jeffrey		 I shouldn't go in. I shouldn't. but I'm too curious. and I have to try to help her.
jeffrey		Hi. can I come in?
dorothy		 Yeah. hurry up though.
jeffrey		Are you alright?
dorothy		No. I'm not.
dorothy		Why are you here. whatiya want?
jeffrey		. I. uh.
dorothy		 It's crazy, I don't know where you came from but. I like you.
jeffrey		That's not crazy. I like you too.
dorothy		I liked being with you last night.
jeffrey		. same here.
dorothy		 Oh shit.
jeffrey		 Frank? .can you stand up?
dorothy		I'm alright. go hide. This won't take long. Be quiet.
yellow man		Frank gone?
dorothy		Yeah. but get outta here. He's comin' back.
yellow man		Bull.
dorothy		Alright, suit yourself.
yellow man		He's comin' back?. What for?
dorothy		 'Cause he's comin' back, that's what for. Frank's got you really loaded tonight.
yellow man		 Yeah, maybe so. Frank's got me. and you. and really it's all thanks to Don. isn't it. remember that. Your husband was the one who started fucking my mind with drugs.
dorothy		Oh he forced you, huh?
yellow man		He's the reformed dealer though who wanted to turn himself in. he's the one that caused Frank to come and Frank's fucking us real good. I just feel so horny. I'm supposed to be here watching you why can't I be here fucking you. Listen. I know his cock's the size of a pin - let me give you the real thing. let me wet my whistle, baby.
dorothy		 No way. get out. I'm gonna tell Frank. I'm gonna tell him what you said.
yellow man		Okay, I'm goin'. You'll see. I'll get you.
jeffrey		 Nice guy.  Who's he?
dorothy		Who's it, you mean.
dorothy		 Oh God. Don!!! Why can't I just die.
jeffrey		 There you go again. stop saying that. You can make it.
dorothy		I can't. I can't. You think you know so much.
jeffrey		Take it easy. What's goin' on anyway?. Why are you in so much trouble?
dorothy		 Oh God. Come with me. Who are you. Come up here.
dorothy		 Look.
jeffrey		 No.
dorothy		 Falling.
jeffrey		No. Please, Dorothy. Why are you in so much trouble?
jeffrey		 Who is Don?
dorothy		 Don?. Are you in with them?
jeffrey		 No. But you're in very big trouble.
dorothy		Why are you so interested? Why do you keep asking me?
jeffrey		I came back to help you. You said do I let girls sneak into my house. You know where I live. if you need to. come to where I live. O.K.?
dorothy		Who are you? Maybe I'll need to. you like me, huh?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		 . or do you just want me? I'm going to let you enter me now.
jeffrey		No. I should go.
dorothy		Please. please stay.
jeffrey		Why Dorothy?
dorothy		Don? I have to make it hurt. I want there to be nothing again. Don!!! 
jeffrey		Will you tell Mom when she gets home from the hospital that I've gone to dinner at Sandy Williams' house?
aunt barbara		Okay honey. that sounds nice. Jeffrey. I think you've got termites in the house.
jeffrey		Oh yeah?. Have you seen any?
aunt barbara		I've seen a few.
jeffrey		Well, I haven't seen any. I wouldn't worry about it. Look. I better go.
aunt barbara		Okay honey.
sandy		We thank you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
mike		Like I was saying. if you toss the ball like this, with your fingers just down here, that thing'll spin like a beauty. real straight.
detective williams		 Yeah? Then how come nobody caught anything last week?.
mike		 'Cause we had a bad day.
detective williams		You play any sports, Jeffrey?
jeffrey		No.
mike		Looks like you'd make a good runner.
jeffrey		Well.
mike		I mean, you don't exactly have the build for a football. I mean. no offense.
jeffrey		 No. you're right.
mike		I mean. some guys play anyway but they usually get slaughtered.
jeffrey		Yeah, well I never wanted to get slaughtered much.
mike		 Well, most guys don't. I mean that's the point. You all mind if I take my vitamins?
mike		Yeah, but I gotta supplement that. I gotta take a bunch of zinc too. The body is like a machine. EVERYTHING has got to stay in perfect tune for perfect health. That's what I'm interested in.
mike		Oh yeah. and a few other things.
sandy		We've got some Heinekens.
detective williams		Yeah. I like Bud myself.
sandy		I'll get it. Mike, whatiya want?
mike		I guess another glass of water.
mike		None for me, thanks.
mike		 What are watchin' this junk for?
sandy		You can change it if you want to.
mike		I don't know why we have to watch T.V.
sandy		Mike. We don't have to watch it. Come on.
jeffrey		That sounds great!
mike		I'll be right back.
sandy		Well, how did it go?. What happened?
jeffrey		Well. I've found out some things. nothing really for certain. There are some strange people involved.
sandy		What did you see?
jeffrey		Well.  Maybe we should discuss this somewhere else. you know what I mean?
mike		 Yes.
mike		Sandy?. Could I talk to you a minute?
sandy		 Excuse me.
mike		Come on out a minute, okay?
sandy		Okay.
jeffrey		Sure thing. please don't worry about me. Can I help you with the dishes?
detective williams		Jeffrey?
jeffrey		Yes?
detective williams		If you want to come up a minute, I'll show you some pictures.
detective williams		 Take a look at these. These are the photos of the vacant lot where you found the ear. You might find them interesting.
jeffrey		These are beautiful. How's the case coming?
detective williams		Okay.
jeffrey		Anything you can tell me?
detective williams		The criminals are winning.
jeffrey		Is that why you say it's horrible?
detective williams		Yes.
jeffrey		I guess you've seen some bad things.
detective williams		Yes I have - so bad I wouldn't poison your mind by telling you.
jeffrey		Why do you do it?
detective williams		I won't let the bastards get me up against the wall. It's an act of defiance.
jeffrey		Yeah. I get it.
jeffrey		What is this? What color is it?
detective williams		 Blue. It's Blue Velvet.
sandy		Can I use the car for a while?
detective williams		Sure. What's up?
sandy		I want to buy Jeffrey a Dairy Queen.
jeffrey		A Dairy Queen?  Oh yeah? Sure, that sounds great.
jeffrey		What's with Mike?
sandy		He got a little jealous.
jeffrey		I'm sorry, I didn't.
sandy		It's okay. Don't worry about it.
sandy		You want a Dairy Queen?
jeffrey		No way. I'm about to blow up.
sandy		You want to tell me about it?
jeffrey		. OK. It's a strange world, Sandy. this is what I have found out. What I think I have found out. Dorothy Vallens is married to a man named Don. they have a son. I think the son and the husband have been kidnapped by a man named Frank who has now cut off both of Don's ears. I think he is holding them to make her do things for him. I think she wants to die. the ears were for her a warning to stay alive. there is another man involved. I call him the "yellow man". you saw his back the other day in the hall at her door. I don't know what he does but I think he's on drugs supplied by Frank. Frank is a very dangerous man.
sandy		 Wow. Should you tell my father?
jeffrey		I don't see how I can. and I can't prove any of this. I got all this information illegally. also it could get you in trouble.
sandy		You saw a lot in one night.
jeffrey		. Actually. I've been in twice.
sandy		 Twice. without her sensing anything?
jeffrey		 Yes.
sandy		 Did you see her undressed?
jeffrey		Yeah. I mean. a little, . you know.
sandy		Yeah?
jeffrey		 That doesn't bother you, does it?
sandy		Who, me? Why should it?
jeffrey		 That's what I thought.
sandy		You're sure right. It is a strange world.
jeffrey		Why are there people like Frank. Why is there so much trouble in this world.?
sandy		I don't know. I had a dream. in fact. the night I met you.  . in the dream the world was dark because there weren't any robins. you know, birds. robins stood for love. and all of a sudden thousands of robins flew down and brought this blinding light of love. and it felt like that love would be the only thing that would make any difference. I guess. until the robins come there is trouble.
jeffrey		Yeah I guess so.  You're a neat girl.
sandy		So are you.  I mean you're a neat guy. We better get back.
jeffrey		I guess so. you want to help me watch Frank?. I'm going to stake out Frank's place tomorrow. with a camera.
sandy		No, silly - I'm still in school you know. but I'll meet you after school and you can tell me what you've learned. You better be careful, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		I will.  I'll pick you up on the same corner at three thirty-five, okay?
sandy		Okay. be careful.
jeffrey		Okay, Sandy.
jeffrey		Can I give you a kiss good night?
sandy		 You better not, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		Okay. okay.
sandy		Goodnight.
jeffrey		See ya tomorrow.
jeffrey		Hello?
jeffrey		 Stupid!! So stupid. now she might be in even more trouble with Frank. I hope not. I hope not. tomorrow I have to find out more about Frank.
jeffrey		Damn!
jeffrey		Wow.
jeffrey		 Fifteen more minutes.
jeffrey		You gotta wait for me Sandy. I'm on a real roll.
jeffrey		What happened?
jeffrey		Oh yeah? What about the woman?
jeffrey		Man oh brother.
sandy		 GO ON!!!. GO!
sandy		Oh great.
sandy		 You were late.
jeffrey		I'm really sorry.
sandy		What am I going to do?
jeffrey		You want to go talk to him?
sandy		Yeah, but. I don't think it's going to do much good. Let's go. I'll try to talk to him later.
sandy		You know, that cheese is practically all chemicals.
jeffrey		That's what makes it so good. You wanta hear what I saw today?
sandy		Shoot.
jeffrey		Number one. I saw the Yellow Man go into Frank's building, laughing with Frank. Now. the only trouble is. what does this prove?
sandy		 Nothing really, but it's interesting. they know each other. they seem to like each other.
jeffrey		Maybe. But I think the Yellow Man is on drugs. I think Frank supplies him.
sandy		Oh yeah?
jeffrey		Number two. I saw the Yellow Man come out. This time with a well-dressed man with an alligator briefcase. They drove down this factory building and stood on a staircase looking at something in the distance. Number three. now get this. In the distance was a murder. a drug dealer shot to death and a woman with her legs broken.
sandy		Jeffrey!!
jeffrey		Then these guys told me the police will find a huge amount of drugs inside the dead man's place.
sandy		I can't believe what you are finding out. Are you going to continue with this. Are you going back to her apartment?
jeffrey		Yeah.
sandy		Jeffrey?. Why?
jeffrey		I'm seeing something that was always hidden. I'm involved in a mystery. I'm learning. and it's all secret.
sandy		You like mysteries that much?
jeffrey		Yeah. you're a mystery. I like you. very much.
sandy		Oh yeah?
sandy		Don't. please, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		You worry about me really?
sandy		Yes. is that so surprising?. Yeah I worry. a lot. I got you into this.
dorothy		Come in.
jeffrey		Hello.
dorothy		It used to make me laugh .but.
jeffrey		I'm sorry .maybe I better go Dorothy.
dorothy		Yes. Frank-
jeffrey		Frank is coming?
dorothy		No. how could he?. Don't go. You think I'm crazy, don't you? I want you to stay.  . don't hate me.
jeffrey		 I sure don't hate you.
dorothy		I'm not crazy.  I know the difference between right and wrong.
jeffrey		That's good.
dorothy		 Do you like my body?
jeffrey		Sure I do.
dorothy		I'm a statue. you can feel me.you can do anything you want.
dorothy		 What do you want to do?
jeffrey		I'm doing it.
dorothy		Are you a bad boy?
jeffrey		Whatiya mean?
dorothy		Do you want to do bad things?  Anything. anything.
jeffrey		 What do you want?
dorothy		I want you to hurt me.
jeffrey		No. I told you. I don't want to hurt you. I want to help you. I think I know some of what is happening to you.  . Dorothy? Frank has your husband and son. Dorothy? Doesn't he? You have to do something Dorothy. go to the police.
dorothy		No police!!!.  No police!!
dorothy		You like to open me. don't you?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		 What if I told Frank that you opened me?
jeffrey		That wouldn't be too good, would it?
dorothy		Frank would open you.
jeffrey		Okay. I know you've been scared. now you want to scare someone.
dorothy		 Does that scare you?
jeffrey		Shut up.
dorothy		Beeeee careful.
jeffrey		 Come on Dorothy.
dorothy		What if Frank came over here and found us?
jeffrey		Look, snap out of it, will ya?
dorothy		Kiss me.
dorothy		 Do you love me?
jeffrey		Do you love me?
dorothy		I asked first.
jeffrey		Sometimes I think I do.
dorothy		And sometimes you think you don't?! Well, get away then!
jeffrey		Wait a minute. Wait. Whatiya want? For cryin' out loud!
dorothy		Just get outta my bed.
jeffrey		Oh God. are you alright.
dorothy		See. see how you hurt me? Now. Open me. enter me.
dorothy		I love you Don with all my heart.
jeffrey		No. it's not Don.
dorothy		Come inside me. Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes.  Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes.
jeffrey		I didn't mean to hurt you.
dorothy		Shhhhhh. Now I have your disease.
jeffrey		You. what?
dorothy		You put your disease in me. your semen. it's hot and full of disease.
jeffrey		There's no disease, I can tell you.
dorothy		Men are crazy. then they put their craziness into me. then it makes me crazy. then they aren't so crazy for awhile. then they put their craziness in me again.  . it's burning me. but I love you. I do, I do. Did you know that? Did you know that I love you?
jeffrey		 I'm glad you do.
dorothy		There's so much I want to tell you. I'm in so much darkness though with things moving. there is darkness sucking me. It's kissing me and darkness is entering me. in every hole. It's opening me to a death.
jeffrey		Dorothy. no!
dorothy		 If I die, then they'll be free. It's getting late, isn't it? I can tell. it's a cold feeling when it's late. It's warm then it gets cold. Jeffrey. I feel it getting cold.
jeffrey		You called me Jeffrey.
dorothy		I did. are you?
jeffrey		Yes.
dorothy		Why are you here?  Hmmmmmmmm!!!! Ok.
jeffrey		No. not really.  but also because I really want you to be alright.
dorothy		You do .you really do.
dorothy		Jeffrey. Jeffrey. Jeffrey.
jeffrey		I guess I should go.
dorothy		I want you to stay with me.
jeffrey		I think I better go.
dorothy		You're my special friend, aren't you?  It helps me. I need you.
jeffrey		 I'll call you.
dorothy		Okay. soon? Do you think I'm too fat?
jeffrey		What?
dorothy		I'm getting a little bit fat. I hate that.
jeffrey		You look beautiful to me.
dorothy		Right in here. fat, fat, fat.
jeffrey		 Oh no.
dorothy		 Hi baby.
frank		Who's this fuck?
dorothy		He's a friend. from the neighborhood. we were just talking.
frank		 You like telephones? Huh?. You wanta go for a ride?
jeffrey		No thanks.
frank		No thanks. what does that mean?
jeffrey		 I don't want to go.
frank		Go where?
jeffrey		On a ride.
frank		A ride?. Hell, that's a good idea. okay, let's go. Hey, let's go.
frank		 Come on. We're goin' for a joy ride.
frank		Where you wanna go? I know!. We gotta see Ben. We gotta, right?
paul		 Yeah. we gotta see Ben.
frank		Come on. I wancha to meet a frienda mine. Raymond, get enough beer for Ben too.
raymond		Okay Frank.
frank		 What kinda beer do you like?
jeffrey		 Heineken.
frank		FUCK THAT SHIT. PABST BLUE RIBBON!!!
frank		Hey shithead. that's the last time I get you high and watch you freak out - motherfucker you tore my coat and I lost my lucky piece of blue velvet, man.
willard		Hey Frank I'm sorry buddy.
frank		Yeah?. get ready for a love letter. When you least expect it.
willard		Frank. please man.
frank		A big love letter.
frank		Hey Ben. OPEN UP. It's Frank.
ben		 Frank. Come in.
frank		Hey, I brought some friends. and some beer.
ben		Fine. Welcome. Come sit down.
frank		 Suave. goddam are you suave, you fucker. You want some beer?
ben		 Darling, get some glasses. We'll have some beer with Frank. Won't you sit down?
frank		Shit Ben! How the shit are ya?
ben		Fine Frank. Fine. How are you?
frank		Fuckin' good, real fuckin' good. You know this little tid bit, Dorothy, and this thing, here,  This is the suavest guy I know. look at you. You're one beautiful fucker, Ben. I love this jacket and that cigarette holder of yours. shit, that is too fuckin' much. Where's those glasses. this beer's gonna get too warm. I can't stand fuckin' warm beer. it makes me puke.
ben		Darling, where are the glasses?. Oh. here they are.
frank		Raymond! Where's the fuckin' beer?
raymond		Right here Frank. You want me to pour it?
frank		No, I want ya to fuck it. Shit, yes. pour the fuckin' beer.
raymond		There ya go.
frank		Good, let's drink up.
ben		To your health, Frank.
frank		Shit. let's drink to something else. let's drink to fuckin'. Say here's to your fuck Frank.
ben		If you like Frank. Here's to your fuck. cheers.
frank		 Cheers. Suave man. you're so fuckin' suave. WE LOVE BEN! Here's to Ben!.
frank		Hey neighbor. Here's to Ben.
jeffrey		 Here's to Ben.
frank		Do you see, Ben?. I can make him do anything I fuckin' please.
ben		Thank you neighbor. let me see your face. did he hurt you?
ben		 Oh. my.
ben		 Is that any better?
ben		Frank, I have something for you. Excuse us everyone.
frank		EXCUSE US por favor! Hey. let Tits see her kid.
donny		Mommy. You left me. you stopped loving me.
frank		 No smile for Frank? No? Okay, fuck it. Let's go. Oh you wanna come with Raymond?
ben		See you Tuesday, Frank.
frank		Right Ben. LET'S GO FUCK. I'll fuck anything that moves.
frank		 Hey? . You like to walk.
jeffrey		What?
frank		Let's take our neighbor out. Let him fuckin' walk back. 
dorothy		Where are we going, Frank?
frank		Hey. Tits. I'm taking your neighbor to the country. maybe something for you too.
dorothy		 Frank?
frank		You want to see him too, right?
dorothy		Yes, but.
frank		Then, shut up!
frank		 Hey. What's this fuck got to do with anything.
frank		What are you lookin' at?
jeffrey		Nothing.
frank		 You like me?.
frank		 Look at these. What are these?
dorothy		Come on, Frank. Let's go. Please.
frank		Don't say PLEASE, Fuckhead. WHAT ARE THESE?
dorothy		Those are my breasts.
frank		Can I feel 'em?
dorothy		If you want to.
frank		Baby wants to pinch 'em.
frank		 What's the matter? Give 'em back. They're just a little red, that's all. let me feel 'em again. Come here.
jeffrey		Hey. leave her alone.
frank		NEXT! . out of the car fuck. HELP HIM OUT, RAYMOND!!
dorothy		Frank. he didn't mean it. Leave him alone. come on. He didn't mean it.
frank		Shut up. Gimme your lipstick.  . Hey, pretty, pretty.
dorothy		LEAVE HIM ALONE!! FRANK!!
frank		 You're fuckin' lucky to be alive. LOOK AT ME!
frank		Don't be a good neighbor to her or I'm gonna send you a love letter. straight from my heart, fucker. You know what a love letter is? It's a bullet. straight from my gun, fucker. Once you get a love letter from me, you're fucked forever. Understand, Fuck?
jeffrey		Yes.
frank		I'll send you straight to hell, Fuck!
frank		 You feel good. feel my muscles.
frank		 Hold him tight for me.
jeffrey		Yellow Cab? Is this Yellow Cab? I need a cab. on Route 7.  . Just by Meadow Lane.
jeffrey		 Meadow Lane. There's a big Nehi sign. Okay. I'll wait, don't worry, . I've got to get home, don't I?
jeffrey		Owww.
jeffrey		I don't want to talk about it. Everything's okay now. I don't want to talk about it.
aunt barbara		Sometimes it helps to talk things over. for instance, many marriages are saved by.
jeffrey		 Aunt Barbara. I love you, but you're not gonna get it.
jeffrey		Mrs. Williams? Hi, this is Jeffrey Beaumont. fine and you? Good. Is Sandy there? Good, thanks. Sandy?. Can you talk? Good. I'm through with this business. I'll explain, but it got a little out of hand. I'm lucky to be able to call you. anyway. I promise I'll tell you everything .How are you?
sandy		We broke up. No. It's okay. It's okay. Jeffrey?. Jeffrey?. Hey, Jeffrey?. Do you want to go to a party with me Friday night?. He won't be there, don't worry. It'll be real nice. This Friday. You don't dance? Well, I'll teach you, silly.
jeffrey		Great. Hey. I've got a bit of a problem. I know some things. that could help your father but you might get into trouble.
sandy		Jeffrey. are they important things? Well forget me - you have to tell him. Jeffrey. I mean it.
jeffrey		Ok but I promise I won't mention you. Okay? .I'll see him at the police station. okay? See you Friday night, if not before.
jeffrey		Excuse me.
detectives		J.R. WILLIAMS AND T.R. GORDON
jeffrey		 Gordon. Gordon. a police inspector. wait a minute. wait a minute.
jeffrey		 The police. the police. Gordon.
jeffrey		 Took all those drugs away. Gordon took those drugs away.
detective williams		Jeffrey! Come on in.
jeffrey		Hi. Hi Sandy. I'm sorry to bother you, but I've got to talk to you.
detective williams		Okay. come on in. Looks like you had a bad face lift.
jeffrey		 Yeah.
detective williams		Okay?
jeffrey		Okay. I gotta tell you. I've. discovered some things. .Anyway I have to show you some pictures and tell you some things about them. The first picture is this.
jeffrey		 This is Frank Booth. His address is on the back of the photo. He, in my opinion, is very sick and dangerous. This photo here is of Frank with another man as they went into Frank's apartment.
jeffrey		 And that man came out with a third man - this well-dressed guy. here's the photo. I think a girl named Dorothy Vallens is in trouble with these people. I think Frank has taken her husband and her son.
jeffrey		 . and somehow Frank is getting all their drugs. I had to tell you I got slightly more involved in this than you wanted me to, but it's over now for sure. .I had to tell you about these things in case it could help.
detective williams		Well now Jeffrey, how did you come to get so involved?
jeffrey		I can't tell you the whole story. I. I took it upon myself. I can't say more.
detective williams		Is Sandy part of this?
jeffrey		No. not at all.
detective williams		 Who knows you have these?
jeffrey		Only you. and the photo lab.
detective williams		You're all through with this now?
jeffrey		Yes sir. I sure am.
detective williams		For now. Alright. you better be. And Sandy better not be involved with this, I can tell you. Be prepared to come in for further interrogation on this later.
jeffrey		Yes sir.
sandy		Everything okay?
jeffrey		Yeah. I think so. I just had to tell him some of what I knew. Is Friday still on?
sandy		You didn't tell him about me?
jeffrey		No.
sandy		I should never had gotten you going on this.  Yes Jeffrey. Friday's on!
jeffrey		Okay. great!
jeffrey		You all set?
yellow man		 Hey John - get a move on!!
detective williams		Easy does it Jeffrey. Behave yourself. don't blow it.
yellow man		Come on John, get it in gear pal!
detective williams		So long Jeffrey. You two have a nice night, okay?
jeffrey		Okay.
sandy		What is it?
jeffrey		Just some fatherly advice.
detective williams		That's right.
sandy		 Goodnight Tom.
sandy		What was that all about?
jeffrey		Nothing. really! It's good to see you.
sandy		It's good to see you.
jeffrey		Where to?
sandy		Just go over to Gelford and up to Vista. It's not far. Can you tell me any more about what you learned?
jeffrey		I'd rather not talk about it. I'll tell you about it sometime.
sandy		It's okay.
jeffrey		... You look beautiful.
sandy		Thank you. Whatiya say we just enjoy the evening?
jeffrey		I like that idea. that's a real good idea.
sandy		You want to dance?
jeffrey		I can't dance fast.
sandy		Really?
jeffrey		Really. you want to dance with someone else?
sandy		NO.
jeffrey		Let's wait for some slow one.
sandy		Just a minute.
sandy		Don't worry. I took care of it. You want something to drink?
jeffrey		You want to dance?
sandy		Okay.
sandy		I love you, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		 I really do love you.
sandy		Oh my God. What's wrong?
jeffrey		Frank!!
jeffrey		 Come on. MOVE IT!
jeffrey		I can't outrun this guy.
jeffrey		My father has a gun at home.
sandy		No.
jeffrey		Sandy. this guy is a killer!! I promise you.
sandy		Try to get to my house. then my father can.
jeffrey		No!!
sandy		It's Mike! It's Mike!
mike		 Hey come here, you stole my girl, you bastard. I'm gonna kick your ass, right in front of your stupid house.
sandy		... Stop it Mike.
mike		 You shut up. nobody's talkin' to you. Hey who's that Jeffrey? Your mother?
jeffrey		Dorothy! ... Dorothy!
sandy		Dorothy Vallens?
jeffrey		Yes.
mike		 Hey, you ivy league shit. COME HERE!
jeffrey		 Later Mike. I gotta take care of someone who's hurt here, in case you haven't noticed.
sandy		Mike, go home.
mike		 Hey, I'm sorry. Hey.
jeffrey		Yeah. okay, Mike.
sandy		Take her to my house. My dad can get an ambulance faster than anyone. Do you have anything to put around her?
jeffrey		 No. Is Detective Gordon going to be at your house?
sandy		Probably not. no. Why?
jeffrey		OK. Let's get her over to your father's.
sandy		 Right. Watch out for Mike, there.
jeffrey		Here we go.
dorothy		 Oh God. Jeffrey is that you?
jeffrey		Yeah, it's me.
dorothy		Oh God, Jeffrey. is that you? Oh God.
sandy		 Is Dad home?
sandy		You better call him and get an ambulance too.
dorothy		 Oh God. they hurt him, Jeffrey. Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey, hold me. HOLD ME. Oh God.
jeffrey		It's okay. it's okay.
dorothy		 My secret lover.
dorothy		 Don't get the police. Oh God, ...Jeffrey I CAN'T STAND IT!! STOP IT. STOP IT. LOVE ME,
dorothy		 I opened myself to him. He put his disease in me.
dorothy		 Tell me its okay. I opened myself to you. Okay, okay, okay, okay?
jeffrey		Sandy? ...Sandy, please.
sandy		 Jeffrey? .What's going on?
jeffrey		Shh. I'll tell you.
dorothy		 They hurt his head.
jeffrey		Who, Dorothy?
dorothy		 Don. help him. HELP HIM!! DONNY!!!!
sandy		 I still love you Jeffrey.
jeffrey		I should go with her, Sandy.
sandy		Go ahead.
jeffrey		... Sandy?.
sandy		Go ahead!
dorothy		Hold me, Don.
jeffrey		Don?. Where is he?
dorothy		 HELP HIM!! Promise me you'll help him!
jeffrey		I promise, Dorothy. I promise.
dorothy		Hold me. I'M FALLING!
jeffrey		Mrs. Williams?. Is Sandy there? Please.  . forgive me. I love you.
sandy		 I forgive you. I just couldn't watch. I love you Jeffrey. I love you. Is she okay?. How horrible. What?
jeffrey		 Please get to your father and send him and the police to Dorothy's apartment right away. Be sure your father comes. Something is happening over there. They're hurting someone. the guy she loves. Tell them to hurry. I'm going over right now.
jeffrey		Yes I'm going. I have to. I love you. I will, believe me.
sandy		 No. he only wants my father to come over. It's very important. he said someone was hurt and he wants Detective Williams there. well, find him!!
jeffrey		 Good bye.
jeffrey		So. Frank escaped.
jeffrey		 Frank's car. Is this man a cop? He has a radio!. So did Frank though and he's no cop. that's for sure. and he's driving Frank's car. who is he?
jeffrey		What happened that day?.
jeffrey		and out came. No it couldn't be. But I think it is!! It's Frank!!
jeffrey		 Detective Williams!! Detective Williams!!
detective williams		 Detective Williams here. Is that you, Jeffrey?
jeffrey		Yes it's me!!! Frank is on his way up to Dorothy's apartment.  Detective Williams. hurry. I'm in the apartment. hurry. I'm hiding in the back bedroom.
detective williams		We're ten minutes away and moving as fast as we can.
frank		 Hey neighbor. shit for brains. You forgot I have a police radio. I know where your cute little butt is hiding. Here I come! Ready or not!
frank		Hey fuck. I can hear you radio! .Hey you stupid fuck. you got about a second to live.
detective williams		 Because of your information I alerted internal affairs to check out Detective Gordon.  I had to keep on with him as if nothing was different.  He slipped off on his own when he found out we were going to raid Frank's place.
jeffrey		Does Dorothy know her husband is dead?
detective williams		Not yet.
jeffrey		Oh my God. Is her son OK?
jeffrey		He became obsessed with her. She hated him. He had to have her. He kidnapped them to control her. to make her do things. Then she wanted to commit suicide so he started cutting off ears as a warning to her to stay alive. I'm not kidding. Frank loved blue. blue velvet. He had to have Dorothy cause her whole life was blue.
jeffrey		Yeah. I guess I did.  What's going to happen to me?
jeffrey		Yeah. I sure know that. Yeah, but how many more are out there?
sandy		Jeffrey. Lunch is ready.
jeffrey		Okay. I'll be right in.
jeffrey		How ya doin' Dad?
jeffrey		Good deal Dad.
sandy		 Look Jeffrey.
jeffrey		 Yeah. I just saw him outside. Maybe the robins are here.
aunt barbara		I don't see how they do it. I could never eat a bug.
****Dialogues from script :Body_Heat.txt****

third draft		October 6, 1980
racine		The Seawater Inn. My family used to eat dinner there twenty-five years ago. Now somebody's torched it to clear the lot.
racine		Probably one of my clients.
racine		 It's four a.m.
angela		I go on duty at Miami Airport at seven. 
angela		You've had your fun. You're spent.  I'll just slip into my uniform here and slip away.
racine		My history's burning up out here.
angela		Hey, I don't mind. I'm leaving. Why do they make these damn skirts so hard to zip...
racine		Where's your hat?
judge costanza		Mr. Racine, I do no longer care whether these alleged toilets were 
racine		Judge Costanza, perhaps when I've presented all --
judge costanza		Yeah, yeah. If I were you, I'd recommend to your client that held quickly do as Mr. Lowenstein here has suggested -- plead nolo contendre, file Chapter Eleven and agree never to do business with Okeelanta County again.
racine		You would look favorably on that?
judge costanza		 He can walk. But don't test my patience for even five more minutes. If he hesitates, I'll nail him.
racine		I'll talk to him.
judge costanza		Mr. Racine. Next time you come into my courtroom I hope you've got either a better defense or a better class of client.
racine		Thank you, Your Honor.
lowenstein		-- I think I've underestimated you, Ned. I don't know why it took me so long. You've started using your incompetence as a weapon.
racine		 My defense was evolving. You guys got scared. Costanza doesn't like me. What'd I do to him?
lowenstein		He's an unhappy man, Thinks he should be Circuit Court by now. Here he is in a state with really top-notch corruption and he's stuck with the county toilets.  I'm surprised you weren't in on that toilet caper. Could have been that quick score you've always been searching for.
racine		Maybe Costanza was in on it.   That's why he was mad.
stella		What's the word from the hallowed halls of justice? Anything juicy?
lowenstein		Maybe Stella was in on it.  Stella, when you gonna get a real air conditioner in here.
stella		You don't like it there's lots of other places.
lowenstein		They don't have you. Gotta go.
lowenstein		You can't buy me. No sirree, I don't come cheap.
a voice		Lowenstein, you're a fag.
stella		Why does he do that?
racine		He's pretty good, that's the weird part.
stella		Did you hear about Dr. Block?
racine		No.   Do I want to?
stella		 Agnes Marshall.
racine		 That must have been Mrs. Block's idea, some kind of punishment.
stella		It was! How'd you know? Christ, you're plugged in better than me. So you must know about Mrs. Block's friend in Ocean Grove.
racine		Stella, this is beneath even you. Things must be slow.
stella		It's the heat.
racine		Mrs. Singer, I would have gladly come to the house.
racine		Don't worry about it. I'll find you a doctor who's more understanding. Is it bad today?
racine		How well I know. We'll sue those reckless bastards dry. Excuse my language.
racine		You can stand here with me if you want, but you'll have to agree not to talk about the heat.
matty		I'm a married woman.
racine		Meaning what?
matty		Meaning I'm not looking for company.
racine		Then you should have said -- 'I'm a happily married woman.'
matty		That's my business.
racine		What?
matty		How happy I am.
racine		And how, happy is that?
matty		You're not too smart, are you?
matty		I like that in a man.
racine		What else you like -- Ugly?   Lazy? Horny? I got 'em all.
matty		You don't look lazy.
matty		Tell me, does chat like that work with most women?
racine		Some. If they haven't been around much.
matty		I wondered. Thought maybe I was out of touch.
racine		How 'bout I buy you a drink?
matty		I told you. I've got a husband.
racine		I'll buy him one too.
matty		He's out of town.
racine		My favorite kind. We'll drink to him.
matty		He only comes up on the weekends.
racine		I'm liking him better all the time. You better take me up on this quick. In another forty-five minutes I'm going to give up and walk away.
matty		You want to buy me something?   I'll take one of these.
racine		What kind?
matty		Cherry.
racine		 Make it two.
racine		 I would have noticed you.
matty		Is this town that small?
racine		Pinehaven. You're staying up in Pinehaven, on the waterway.  You have a house.
matty		How'd you know?
racine		You look like Pinehaven.
matty		How does Pinehaven look?
racine		Well tended.
matty		Yes, I'm well tended, all right. Well tended. What about you?
racine		Me? I need tending. I need someone to take care of me. Rub my tired muscles. Smooth out my sheets.
matty		Get married.
racine		I just need it for tonight.
matty		Good.    Nice move, Matty.
racine		Matty.    I like it. Right over your heart.
matty		At least it's cool. I'm burning up.
racine		I asked you not to talk about the heat.
matty		Would you get me a paper towel or something? Dip it in some cold water.
racine		Right away.    I'll even wipe it off for you.
matty		You don't want to lick it?
matty		Look who's here. Isn't this a coincidence?
racine		I know you.
matty		You're the one that doesn't want to talk about the heat. Too bad. I'd tell you about my chimes.
racine		What about them?
matty		The wind chimes on my porch. They keep ringing and I go out there expecting a cool breeze. That's what they've always meant. But not this summer, This summer it's just hot air.
racine		Do I remind you of hot air?
racine		Bourbon, any kind, on the rocks.  Another?
matty		What are you doing in Pinehaven?
racine		I'm no yokel. Why, I was all the way to Miami once.
matty		There are some men, once they get a whiff of it, they'll trail you like a hound.
racine		I'm not that eager.
matty		What is your name, anyway?
racine		 Ned Racine.
matty		Matty Walker.
racine		Are you all right?
matty		 Yes. My temperature runs a couple degrees high. Around 100 all the time I don't mind it. It's the engine or something.
racine		Maybe you need a tune-up.
matty		Don't tell me -- you have just the right tool.
racine		I don't talk that way.
matty		How'd you find me, Ned?
racine		This is the only joint in Pinehaven.
matty		How'd you know I drink?
racine		You seemed like a woman with all the vices.
matty		 You shouldn't have come. You're going to be disappointed.
racine		 What'd I do?
matty		 A lot of them have tried that seat. You're the first one I've let stay.
racine		 You must come here a lot.
matty		Most men are little boys.
racine		Maybe you should drink at home.
matty		Too quiet.
racine		Maybe you shouldn't dress like that.
matty		This is a blouse and a skirt. I don't know what you're talking about.
racine		You shouldn't wear that body.
matty		I don't like my body much.   It's never been right.
matty		Sometimes, I don't know. I get so sick of everything, I'm not sure I care anymore. Do you know what I mean, Ned?
racine		 I know that sometimes the shit comes down SO heavy I feel like I should wear a hat.
matty		Yeah, that's what I mean.
matty		I think I'll get out of here now. I'm going home.
racine		I'll take you.
matty		I have a car.
racine		I'll follow you. I want to see the chimes.
matty		You want to see the chimes.
racine		I want to hear them.
matty		That's all.   If I let you, that's all.
racine		 I'm not looking for trouble.
matty		 I mean it. I like you.    But my life is complicated enough.
matty		This is my community bar. I might have to come here with my husband some time. Would you leave before me?  Wait in your car? I know it seems silly...
racine		I don't know who we're going to fool. You've been pretty friendly.
matty		 Now leave me alone.
racine		 Lady, you must be some kind of crazy!
matty		Remember your promise.
racine		Just like my place.
racine		No help?
matty		She goes home nights.
racine		You're not nervous alone?
matty		No.
racine		You do have chimes.
racine		What's that?
matty		A gazebo
racine		No, out there.
matty		Boat house.
racine		What is in there?
matty		Boat.
matty		It's a mess. There's a row boat, a lot of lounge chairs... things like that.
matty		I think you should go now.
racine		I just got here.
matty		You've seen them. Please go.
racine		You didn't bring me here to see your wind chimes.
matty		Yes, I did. I said what I meant. Do you ever do that?
racine		No.     not very often.
racine		I don't think you want me to go.
matty		Yes... Please.
racine		There's nothing to be afraid of.
matty		There is for me.
matty		Thank you. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have lot you come.
racine		You're not so tough after all, are you?
matty		No...    I'm weak.
matty		Yes, yes...
racine		That's right... that's right.
matty		Please, please ...
racine		I like this place. It's got a nice feel.
racine		So it could use a better mattress. See to it, will you?
racine		 Hey, gimme a break here.    It takes a little while.
matty		 It's your fault.
racine		 It takes me a good thirty seconds.
matty		Are you sure?    I just want to make sure here.
racine		Jesus, I think you're right --  -- you better be on the bottom.
matty		No, you misunderstood --  -- this is my new saddle, and I just want to --
racine		Wow!   No, I must object --
racine		 Enough.
racine		What are you doing?
matty		I've got to wash these.
racine		You're afraid of your maid?
matty		That's right. My mother told me "knowledge is power."
racine		This is an interesting interpretation. Is that why you've started smoking my brand?
matty		No one must know. Promise me, Ned. No one.
racine		Hey, lady, wanna make love?
mary ann		I don't know. Maybe This sure is a friendly town.
racine		I'm sorry.
mary ann		 You are? You mean the offers no good?
racine		I feel like a jerk.
mary ann		Maybe you were supposed to deliver it next door?  You must be looking for the lady of the house.
sam		Are you crazy, lady?     Didn't you hear the siren?
matty		Ned, this is Mary Ann.
mary ann		 We were just meeting. Ned made me feel very welcome.
racine		I'm an idiot. Nice to meet you. Are you staying in town?
mary ann		No, no, just passing through. Nice area. A little hot for my tastes.
racine		It's unusual.   We're famous for our cool breezes.
matty		 Do you want to stay for dinner?
mary ann		 Got to go, got to go.
mary ann		You two have fun now.
racine		I didn't see her car. I'm sorry.    I got to be more careful.
matty		Mary Ann's an old friend. She's like a sister to me. She wants me to be happy.
racine		I never knew. Maybe worshipping women instead of God. But it never did anything for me.
racine		No.
racine		You're killing me.
matty		Is there any more ice?   I'm burning up.
matty		He's coming up tomorrow.
matty		I can't stand the thought of him... He's small and mean... and weak.
racine		Come on! It's been three days.      I want to see you --
racine		I'm going.   I'm going.
racine		I'm here.
matty		 Good evening, sir... welcome to... to Flight 413 ... nonstop to ...
racine		What do you take me for?
matty		Don't you like it?
racine		You think I'm a kid?
matty		You don't like it? I thought you went for this stuff.
matty		Wait ...   wait ... I want to tell you about the   thing... the thing that will drop   from the ceiling... in case the   cabin suddenly depressurizes -- oho...
matty		 What are we doing here?
racine		 I love that sound.
matty		I want to be in bed.
racine		Is that all you ever think about?
racine		Hey!   I'm kidding.
matty		Yes ... that's all I ever think about ... You and me. Your body near mine, close. I'm not right when you're not with me. I get the shakes. And each time, when I first see you, I shake even more. For a while. And then I get calm. I feel safe ... I've never been this way. I can't remember how I lived before.
racine		You look terrible. Don't you sleep?
lowenstein		I had a dream last night that was so boring it woke me up. I was afraid to go back to sleep. Where the hell have you been?
racine		What do you mean, I been around.
lowenstein		I've barely seen you for a month. Wait a minute -- it's some new quiff, isn't it? What's wrong with me.
lowenstein		You've never been shy about that stuff.
racine		Oscar.
grace		Hey. You weren't at the Y last week. We lost.
lowenstein		 He's getting discreet. I can't believe it.
grace		Whatcha got in pie today, Stella?
stella		 Cherry, cherry... and cherry.
grace		What do you recommend?
stella		I like the cherry.
grace		Bring it on.   And a gigantic Coke.
lowenstein		I'm really disappointed, Racine. I've been living vicariously off you for years. If you shut up on me, I'll have just my wife.
racine		There's nothing to tell.   I lead a lonely life.
grace		Right. And it's gonna snow later today --
lowenstein		... And people are basically decent..  ... Must be someone I know. Let's see -- someone in uniform...
lowenstein		...no Army personnel around. Waitress... Could it be...  ...Stella!
lowenstein		I know, I know -- you finally got to Glenda.
lowenstein		How was it? Did she let you into the no parking zone?
stella		I'll have you know Glenda is seriously involved with a narc from Palm Beach.
racine		 There you are.
lowenstein		A narc from Palm Beach? Is that his hobby?
racine		How's the cop business, Oscar?
grace		Real good. Always starts hoppin' in weather like this. When it gets hot, people try to kill each other.
stella		It's true. I could tell you some people who'll be dead if we don't get a break soon.
grace		We've got more of everything bad since the wave started. It's the crisis atmosphere. People dress different, feel different, sweat more. They wake up cranky and they never recover. Look at Lowenstein.  Things are just a little askew. Pretty soon people think the old rules aren't in effect. They start breaking them. Figure no one'll care, cause it's emergency time... time out.
lowenstein		Oscar, I just don't understand how you could be doing advanced theoretical thinking like that and still be stuck working in our little town.
grace		 Lowenstein dreams of bigger things.
lowenstein		Assistant County Prosecutor isn't the end for me, fellows.
racine		Hell, no. Someday -- Deputy County Prosecutor.
lowenstein		When the truth comes out about some of the dirt I've been involved in, 
glenda		Hello, Ned.
racine		Hi, Glenda.
matty		Don't say it, if you don't mean it. Please, Ned, don't.
racine		I do. I want you with me.
matty		I'm going to tell Edmund I want a divorce. I won't stay any longer. I would have, if you hadn't come along. The life is comfortable. I was willing to go on. But you've reminded me of what it can be... I know now that these last three years I've been living half a life. It's my fault, I don't deny it. You have to let yourself be bought. I did. I let it happen. I've lived so much of my life with nothing. When you have no money, you have no choices. I don't care what they say -- money is freedom. That's something they don't teach you in school. But I found out. And when Edmund came along when I saw a chance to stop struggling I took it. I'm not ashamed. 
racine		 It is conceivable I'll make a buck someday.
matty		 Oh, I know you will, darling. I didn't mean that. I know you will. But it doesn't matter. It's you I want. That's all.
racine		Anyway, you'll come out all right.
matty		Of the divorce?
racine		Yeah.    He's ripe.
matty		No.   I signed a pre-nuptial agreement.
racine		What?
matty		He insisted. He blamed it on his sister Roz -- she's always hated me -- but I know he wanted it too.
racine		How is it?
matty		Bad. I get some money for a year. Not much. That's it. But I don't care, Ned. Not if I can be with you.
matty		Does it matter, Ned? Tell me the truth please. I'll understand, I swear to you.
racine		The truth? I wish you were going to be loaded. Does it matter? No. No.
matty		God, you've made me happy.  It's time for your present.
matty		From now on, when it starts coming down on you, I'll be there to protect you.
matty		Put it on! I'll bet I guessed the size right.
matty		I love it.
racine		I want to see.
matty		Look in my eyes. Can you see yourself?
matty		Here!
beverly		Big weekend planned?
racine		Nope, Small weekend. Tiny little weekend.
beverly		There's jazz tonight at the beach... if you're not doing anything...
racine		Beverly, do yourself a big favor and forget it.
beverly		Forget what?
racine		Whatever you're thinking.
racine		Yeah.
matty		 Come to me.
racine		Did you tell him?
matty		 No... I couldn't.
racine		Okay, I'm coming.
racine		How do you know?
matty		I saw the will once. He showed it to me. He was trying to prove something ... how much he loved me or something.
racine		How'd he get so fat?
matty		The stock market, investments, real estate. He doesn't tell me anything, but I've picked up a little. I know they own a lot of land along the shore here.
racine		Who's "they"'
matty		 He's never introduced me to anyone. I'm not sure if they're all legitimate.
racine		 I wonder what they call themselves. Maybe I've heard of them.
matty		They own that old place in Miranda Beach, The Breakers... I know that.
racine		 The Breakers? I thought Hermie Fisher owned that land.
matty		 Edmund mentioned it once.
matty		Ned, it scares me to talk about these things.
racine		Why?
matty		You know.
racine		No.    I don't.
matty		Let's just not, okay? Let's not think about all he's got.
racine		 What is it, Matty? Tell me exactly what frightens you.
matty		I'm afraid... because when I think about it, I wish that he'd die. That's really what I want. It's horrible and ugly and It's what I most want.
racine		That's where we're at, isn't it, Matty?
matty		What do you mean?
racine		That's what we're both thinking -- how good it'd be for us if he were gone. It'd be real sweet for us.
matty		Don't talk about it, Ned. Please don't. Talk is dangerous. Sometimes it makes things happen, it makes it real.
racine		Don't let it scare you. Because he's not gonna die. There's nothing wrong with him, is there? There's no reason to think he's gonna die, is there?
racine		That's right. So we might as well forget about it, It's not gonna just happen to make things nice for us... It won't just happen.
matty		I'm afraid, Ned.
racine		Maybe that's a smart way to be now, Matty. Maybe we both should be.
racine		The only thing wrong with your husband right now... is us.
racine		Well, well.   Hello to you --
matty		 Hello.
matty		Darling, I'd like you to meet Mr. Racine. I'm sorry. I don't know your first name.
racine		Ned.
walker		Edmund Walker.    Nice to meet you.
matty		Mr. Racine is the lawyer I told you about.  You remember. He had a client who wanted to buy the house. I told him we weren't selling.
walker		Right.
racine		That hasn't changed, has it?
walker		No, we're very happy with it.
racine		 I can understand that.    It's a terrific place.
walker		Are you going in?
racine		I was just going to grab a bite.
walker		Join us.
racine		No. Thanks very much, but I don't want to interfere with --
walker		Don't be silly. Come on.  We have room for three, don't we?
walker		I've heard this place is great. But you can't get near it on the weekends and I don't get down during the week much.
racine		Is that right?
walker		I was a lawyer. Still am, I guess. But I don't practice. Went to Columbia. You?
racine		F. S. U.
walker		 Good school.  I got bored with it quick. I guess I didn't have the temperament.  I wanted to make the money faster.  Is there a living in it here?
racine		I can afford to send my shirts out. And eat here once a month, if I don't order an appetizer.
walker		I figured an honest lawyer doesn't make much and the other kind was too slimy for me. I'd rather be upfront about shafting somebody.
matty		Edmund, really.     It's Mr. Racine's profession.
racine		That's all right. I don't like it much.
walker		What's to like. That's the way of the world. Most people despise their jobs.
racine		Do you?
walker		No. I love it.     But it's not a job.
racine		What is it, exactly?
walker		Various things.     This and that. Here and there.
racine		You don't have to be specific.
walker		 Finance, basically. Venture capital, Investments, real estate. We're into a few things.
racine		Yeah?   Around here?
walker		Some.   We own some things here.
matty		Edmund's company owns The Breakers.
racine		Is that right?
walker		It's not that simple. We have an interest in a few places along the shore. For the land. You know. Someday. There's no explaining it to her.
matty		 I'm too dumb. Woman, you know.
matty		I'll be right back.
walker		She's something, isn't she?
racine		 A lovely lady.
walker		Yes, she is. I'm crazy about her. If I ever thought she was seeing another guy... I don't know.  I'd understand how it could happen. Her being the way she is. I'd understand it. But I think I'd kill the guy with my bare hands.
racine		That's understanding.
walker		You wouldn't believe the dorkus she was with when I met her. The guy came to us with a business proposition. We're always looking for opportunities. If the conditions are right. We're willing to take an occasional risk, if the downside isn't too steep. But this guy hadn't done his homework, he didn't know the bottom line. That's how I knew he was full of shit. You've got to know the bottom line. That's all that really counts.
walker		He didn't have the goods,  this guy. He was like a lot of guys  you run into -- they want to get  rich, they want to do it quick, they  want to be there with one score.
walker		But they're not willing to do what's necessary. Do you know what I mean?
racine		I'm not sure. You mean, lay the groundwork? Earn it?
walker		No. I mean do what's necessary. Whatever's necessary.
racine		Yeah. I know that kind of guy. I can't stand that. It makes me sick.
walker		Me too.
racine		I'm not like that.
beverly		There are some messages on your desk. Be back in an hour. Got to run.
racine		Jesus!    Did Beverly see you?
matty		I waited till I saw her leave.      Please don't be angry with me.
racine		Angry? I'm not angry -- How'd you get in?
matty		It didn't lock. Oh. Ned, hold me. Please just hold me, God, I love you.
matty		He left this morning.      I had to see you.
racine		 I know.
matty		I couldn't call. I'm afraid to call. I was afraid you wouldn't let me come.
racine		Yes, that's right. You can't call. Never call. We have to be very careful now about the phone. The phone company keeps records.
matty		I'm careful. I hated it, Ned. I hated sitting there with the two of you. I thought I was going to scream.
racine		 You've called my apartment from the house.
matty		No, never.
racine		No?   Those two times --
matty		I went to phone booths. I'm afraid of him, Ned. I'm always afraid.
racine		That's good. We have to be careful about the phones now.
matty		Why, Ned, why do you say this now?
racine		 We could account for a couple calls. We've had some contact. That would make sense.
matty		Why, Ned?    What's happened?
racine		Because we're going to kill him.    We both know that.
racine		That's what you want, isn't it? We knew it was coming. It's the only way we can get everything we want, isn't it?
racine		The man's gonna die for no reason but we want him dead. 
racine		That's it then. We're gonna kill him. And I think I know how.
matty		It's real, then?
racine		Yeah, it's real all right, and if we're not careful, it's gonna be the last real thing we do.
racine		I know where he is. It's not far from here. I don't want you with me.
matty		I thought we settled that. I'll wait in the car, but --  -- I want to take the risks with you. We're both doing this.
teddy		Whatsa matter, you can't think with a little music?  Like this, I said.
racine		That's it?
teddy		 It's fast. It's hot. It's simple. You can use the clock or rig it to something that moves. It starts big and it'll go with just the mag clips. If you want more, splash a little accelerator around.
racine		Just regular gasoline?
teddy		Regular, unleaded, supreme -- whatever you like, counselor. I got to tell you, though, this mama has a big drawback.
racine		What?
teddy		It's easy to spot, even after the meltdown. They'll know it's arson.
racine		I don't care about that.  That's all there is to it?
teddy		No. No-no-no-no. That ain't all there is to it. 
racine		Sorry.
teddy		Hey, now I want to ask you something, Are you listening, asshole, because I like you?  I got a serious question for you. What the fuck are you doing? This is not shit for you to be messing with. Are you ready to hear something? See if this sounds familiar. Anytime you try a decent crime, there is fifty ways to fuck up. If you think of twenty-five of them you're a genius. And you're no genius. You know who told me that?
teddy		Listen, man, maybe you should let me do it for you. Gratis. I'll do it. I wouldn't even be on the street if it weren't for you.
racine		Thanks.
teddy		I hope you know what you're doin' you better be pretty damn sure about it. If you ain't sure, don't do it. Of course, that's my recommendation anyway -- don't do it.  Because I tell you, Counselor, this arson, this is serious crime.
matty		I don't know why he's so crazy about her. Maybe because he never had any of his own. She's a cute little girl, all right, but other than that... I know this, though, her mother has worked plenty hard to keep Heather on Edmund's mind, Always bringing her around, reporting everything she does in school. That Roz is a smart one. And you know that anything Heather inherits goes straight to Roz. Heather won't even get a look at it. That's the part I can't stand. That's why it seems so wrong to have half of it go to her.
racine		That's the way it is.       There's nothing we can do about it.
matty		Are you sure, Ned? I've been thinking about it. Maybe there is. The will is with his lawyer in Miami I know that. What if I could get him to bring it home? He did it once, he'd do it again. If I could swing it, couldn't we rewrite it? Change it. Then when he dies, I could find the new one. We could just change it a little. Every little change would mean a lot to us, End. You're a lawyer. You know how to write it. It wouldn't seem so odd. I could say he brought it home and we talked about it and decided to make some changes up here. And I knew you already --
racine		No.   Forget it.
matty		I just don't see why Heather should take half --
racine		Listen to me, Matty. Nothing strange can happen in his life right now, not one thing out of the ordinary. That's vital, that's the main thing. If anything does, the chances double that we get caught. You and I are walking out there on the edge every second now. One false move and we're gonna fall off. It'll be all over. You've got to remember that all the time.  You'll get half of everything and it'll be plenty. No matter what it is, we're gonna be satisfied. We're not gonna get greedy. If we do, we'll get burned. You gotta believe me, baby, the odds that we'll get burned are good enough without looking for trouble.
matty		You're right, darling.   I'm sorry. I know you're right.
racine		Okay.   Gotta go.
matty		Be careful.
racine		I'm just going for a ride.   I wish it was all this dangerous.
matty		I love you.
racine		And?
matty		The side door.
racine		And?
matty		Two A.M. I send him down.
racine		We won't talk again after     I leave here tonight. I'll be in      Miami by noon Friday. You won't be      able to reach me. When I see you      again, he'll be dead.
matty		I'm so frightened.
walker		Hello, sweetheart. Have I got a nice present for you.
heather		Hi, Aunt Matty!
matty		Heather.   What a surprise.
walker		Jesus, take it easy. I thought I was tense.
matty		What are you doing?
walker		I can't sleep. I'm going down and get something to drink.
matty		Edmund.
matty		I can't sleep, either.
matty		Lock the door, darling.
walker		You trying to kill me?
walker		I'm going downstairs.     Do you want anything?
matty		 I'll go down with you.
walker		 Christ, woman, did you ever hear of turning on the lights?
matty		Edmund... wait!
walker		 What is it?
matty		 Put on a robe or something. What if Heather wakes up and comes down.
walker		 Damn. She's not going to wake up at 2 o'clock in the morning...
walker		You don't really mind, do you?  Roz will pick her up on Friday. And don't worry, Roz won't stay overnight.
matty		She can do whatever she wants.
walker		 Listen, I don't know if I'll be able to come up next weekend. I'll know more later. I'll call you.
matty		My God, you scared me. You shouldn't be here. Heather's still here. She's upstairs.
racine		-- Asleep.
matty		I miss you so badly.       But it's too dangerous.
racine		She won't wake up now.
matty		You're all wet.
racine		I've been out there waiting for two hours.
heather		Good morning, Aunt Matty.  Hi, Betty.
heather		Is there any more of that strawberry stuff?
roz		What do you say?
heather		I did.
matty		She did.
heather		Thank you, Aunt Matty.
roz		Thanks, Matty.     We appreciate it.
matty		Any time, Roz.     She's a pleasure.
racine		Yeah?
racine		It's open.
matty		Why haven't you answered your phone?
racine		You took a chance coming here. Where's Edmund?
matty		He's not coming up this weekend. Why haven't you answered?
racine		I didn't want to talk.     I just wanted to think.
matty		 Can I get in with you?
matty		I don't know what Heather will tell Roz. Maybe nothing. Maybe she'll be embarrassed or afraid. Maybe she'll think she imagined the whole thing.
racine		 Maybe we all did.
matty		We'll know if she does tell. Roz will report to Edmund quick enough. It's exactly what she's always wanted.
matty		I've been thinking, too.
racine		And what have you got?
matty		I think we should give it up. We haven't done anything criminal, yet.
racine		It's not too late to back out.
matty		That's right.   I don't think we can do it.
racine		What do you mean?
matty		Things have already started to go wrong. I feel like we got to the edge and looked over and, well, it was too much. We'll just have to live with that.
matty		I'll divorce him. And     we won't have his money. Part of me     wants it so bad. I'd be lying if I     said I didn't. But it's the worst part    of me, the weakest part.
matty		All that matters is that we're together.
racine		 You don't think I can pull it off.
matty		It's not you, it's us. I'm sure I'll make some mistake.
racine		That's not what you really mean, is it, Matty?
matty		Yes it is.
racine		 No, it isn't. You think he's too much for me. You think I'll fuck it up, get us caught.
matty		No, darling. Don't talk that way. It's not true.
racine		No? Well that's what I've been thinking.
matty		You're wrong. Don't think that, ever! I know you could do it.  But all I care about is you. The money doesn't matter.
racine		It does in this world, the one we're living in.
matty		Why torture ourselves about it?
racine		When's he coming back?
matty		Friday.
racine		That'll be it, then. Nothing will stop us.
matty		Is that what you really want?     Are you sure?
racine		Yeah.    I wasn't before, but I am now.
racine		This time you're going to know how to reach me. I don't want any more surprises.
matty		What's wrong?
walker		 I think there's someone downstairs I heard something.
matty		Are you sure?
matty		 Should I call the police?
walker		 Will you be quiet? I'm going to nail the bastard.
matty		 Edmund, what's that?
walker		Will you be quiet?
matty		I've never seen that.
walker		 I've got a surprise for this fucker.
matty		Edmund, be careful!
matty		He has a gun!
walker		Where?
racine		The cars at the end of the drive. Spend the fifteen minutes cleaning up inside, then come. You're gonna have to be careful in this fog.  Are you all right?
racine		Fifteen minutes.
stocky trucker		Hey, man, do you have any flares?
racine		Uh -- no.     I don't think so.
stocky trucker		 Could you check your trunk? We got kinda of a mess here.
racine		I don't have them. I told you.
stocky trucker		Don't put yourself out.
racine		 Get the hell out of here and don't come back.
ragged bum		 Come on back here and fight like a man!
matty		Thank god.   I thought --
racine		Shh!
racine		 They're right on time and I'm running late.
racine		We won't talk for a long time.
beverly		Ned.   Miles Hardin. Do you want him?
racine		Who is he?
beverly		She says he's a lawyer from Miami.
racine		Hello.
secretary		 Mr. Ned Racine?
racine		Yes.
secretary		Miles Hardin calling.
hardin		 Mr. Racine.
racine		Yes.
hardin		This is Miles Hardin of Morris and Dale in Miami.
racine		Yes.
hardin		As you know, we represented Edmund Walker.
racine		Yes.
hardin		Yes, well, Mrs. Walker has submitted the new will you wrote up there.
racine		Yes...    I see.
hardin		And frankly, Mr. Racine, I think we may have a problem.
racine		Uh-huh.    What problem is that?
hardin		Well, I'd   rather discuss  it in person. In fact I   think it might  be best if we could   all get together  down there. That is,   if you wouldn't  object.
racine		No no, that would be all right.
hardin		Good. We have a relationship with a firm in West Palm -- Shiller, Hastings.
racine		I know of them.
hardin		I've arranged to have the use of their offices. I thought we might try to make it tomorrow, say ten o'clock. Would that be possible for you?
racine		Yes, I think so.
hardin		Good. Mrs. Walker told me she would be back down there by then. 
racine		Right.
hardin		Good-bye.
racine		 Will you get me Mrs. Edmund Walker, please.
beverly		I don't have her. Should I?
racine		I thought the temporary put her in. She came in while you were on vacation. Look it up. They were in Pinehaven, I think.
beverly		 I get no answer at the Pinehaven number.
racine		Okay.    Try again later.
hardin		Miles Hardin, Mr. Racine.
racine		How are you?
hardin		I don't think you know Mrs. Kraft.
racine		 No.   I don't. My condolences.
roz		Thank you.
racine		Mrs. Walker, I'm very sorry about your husband.
matty		Thank you, Mr. Racine.
hardin		You know Mr. Lowenstein.
racine		Hello, Peter.
lowenstein		Hi, Ned.
hardin		I asked Mr. Lowenstein to join us because he's handling the inquiry into Edmund's death for the County Prosecutor's office. He and I have discussed this matter and he's made is possible for us to speak very frankly here today. Off the record, so to speak. 
hardin		Mrs. Walker explained to me that when she and her husband decided to make some minor changes, they just took care of it up here for simplicity's sake. And, indeed, as you know, the new will is almost identical to the old but for the disposition of a few items.  At the risk of oversimplifying, the thrust of the will is to divide the estate in almost equal parts between Heather Kraft and Mrs. Walker. Would you agree with that assessment, Mr. Racine?
hardin		Mmmm. And you witnessed the    signing by Edmund Walker along with   this Miss --  -- Mary Ann Simpson on July   twenty- first. Apparently, it will    be impossible for us to contact   Miss Simpson.
matty		Mary Ann is a lifelong   friend of mine. She  happened to   be visiting on her way to Europe.    I'm sure when she returns she'll get   in touch with me.
racine		 Although it's certainly not required. The witnesses to the signing of a will are not commonly available when the will is entered into probate. It's not standard by any means.
hardin		Edmund Walker's death was not standard.
roz		 Pardon me. I'm sorry. I'm confused. Is there some question about the authenticity of the will?
racine		I'm confused, too. Do you have a problem with the witnessing or the signatures? What is it you're getting at?
hardin		 No, there doesn't seem to be any problem here. This is Edmund Walker's last will and testament. I'm afraid the problem is elsewhere.
hardin		Would anyone mind if I smoked?
lowenstein		I don't need my own. I'll just breathe the air.
hardin		Everything's in order up to there. The problem comes in the language of the bequest to Heather. It's a technical matter. 
hardin		It's a small thing, but it's the law. It forbids an inheritance to be passed down indefinitely for generations. Many general practitioner lawyers don't fully understand it. It doesn't come up much for them, because wills this complex are usually handled by estate departments in larger firms. Handled by lawyers who specialize in this type of work.
hardin		I know this is terribly confusing, but if you'll bear with me... I spotted the problem right away, but since Edmund's intent was clear, I thought it in everyone's best interest to try and get the will admitted into probate anyway, even though it was technically incorrect. I knew that a probate judge in Miami would spot the mistake right away. That's all they do all day, they're expert. So I thought I'd bring it up here to Okeelanta County -- since Edmund had the residence here -- and see if I could get lucky with a judge who didn't know estate law quite so well...  Perhaps find one with the same kind of training as Mr. Racine.
hardin		Unfortunately, my plan backfired. I ran into a judge who'd had other dealings with Mr. Racine. A Judge Costanza. 
roz		Once again, Mr. Hardin, you've lost me.
matty		Yes, what does all this mean?
hardin		It means, I'm afraid, that Edmund's will is invalid. Edmund Walker died interstate, as though there were no will at all.
matty		So... what happens now?
hardin		You don't know?
matty		 No, I don't.
hardin		Perhaps Mr. Racine would like to tell you.
racine		In the state of Florida, when a person dies without a will, and there are no children and no surviving parents, then the spouse inherits everything.
matty		My god.   You mean... it's all mine?
hardin		Though that was clearly not your husband's intention.
matty		My god.
hardin		He intended Heather to benefit --
matty		 Of course, of course, I understand. Of course.
hardin		As you can imagine, Mrs. Walkers given the circumstances of Edmund's death, none of this is going to happen... how should I say it... simply.
matty		... Of course...
racine		You look good in black.
matty		I've missed you so badly.   I need you.
racine		At first I couldn't figure out when you got ahold of my stationery and stuff. It finally came to me... Edmund's signature must have been a snap. And you knew I wasn't gonna challenge mine --
matty		Please stop. I don't blame you for hating me right now.
racine		You've really done it, Matty.    You really have.
matty		Will you come to the house tonight?
matty		I want you more right now than I ever have. I know how you must feel about me. But please come tonight.
racine		I hope you haven't done us in.
racine		Hi, guys. Just come on in, make yourself at home.
grace		Sorry about that.
lowenstein		Not me. The door was unlocked, inviting illegal entry. It's behavior like that makes Oscar's job so hard.
racine		Sorry, Oscar. Would you guys a beer?
lowenstein		No thanks, I already had one.
grace		I've gotta bring my wife up here. She thinks our house is the hottest place in the county.
racine		It ain't great this time of day.
grace		Ned, how did you get involved with this Matty Walker?
racine		 What do you mean?
grace		I mean she's poison, man. Tell me what you know about her old man's death.
racine		What read in the paper. He died in the fire. Looks like arson--
lowenstein		Was arson.
racine		Okay, was arson. You don't know if he was setting it and messed up... or if that's just what someone wanted it to look like.
grace		Nah, he didn't set it.   Somebody offend him.
racine		His people owned the place or something?
grace		 But this just doesn't seem like a neat way to handle something like that.
lowenstein		It's not their style. They're very smooth. They'd rather destroy you than kill you. And they hate publicity.
grace		Course guys like that make a lot of enemies. Coulda been a grudge match from the outside, I suppose.  But me, I'm kinda interested in the grieving widow.
lowenstein		Her sister-in-law's got plenty of ideas along that line, too. She could barely contain herself today, I could tell.  But she wants to wait and see how Matty treats her on the estate. She doesn't want to blow it.
grace		How'd you get involved?
racine		 They asked me to re-do the will. I met with her and Edmund. It was pretty simple. This Mary Ann Simpson witnessed it with me. Walker didn't seem to think it was any big deal.
grace		That's it?
racine		That's it.
grace		What was this Simpson's story?
racine		I don't know... old friend of theirs, good-looking broad. She was just passing through.
grace		On her way to Europe?
grace		The passport people can't find any record of that.
grace		What do you think? About the wife?
racine		I suppose it's possible. I don't know much about her, except --  -- what I've seen. Wouldn't shock me, either way.
lowenstein		I've got a feeling she's very bad news. Take some incredibly intelligent advice and stay away from her.
grace		He's right for once.
racine		Well, I'm sorry, guys.    I'm afraid I can't do that.
grace		Why not?
racine		First of all, did you get a look at her?
racine		That wouldn't be quite so meaningful, except that today she started coming on to me. And maybe you haven't heard but the lady is about to come into a great deal of money.
racine		The fact   is, she's invited me out to her place   tonight. And I'm going. And I'll   keep on going as many nights, or days,   or weekends, as she'll have me.
lowenstein		Ned, that lady may have just killed her husband.
racine		Peter, she's not gonna inherit anything by killing me.
grace		Ned, you've messed up before. You'll mess up again. That's your nature. But they've always been small-time. This might not be. She's trouble, Ned. The real thing. Big-time, major league trouble. Watch yourself.
matty		I know. I know. I know you'd probably like to kill me. I know. But please... you can hate me... punish me... hurt me if you want, but don't talk yet.
matty		Please, Ned.
matty		... Mary Ann and I left Wheaton together and went to Chicago. We didn't know what we were doing. I got in bad trouble with drugs. Speed. Really bad. I did things...  Whatever's the evilest thing you can think of me now, I did worse things then. There's nothing lower than the animal I was then. Worse than you can imagine. I thought I would die. I prayed I would... And then a man helped me. He got me clean. He didn't want much in return, either... He was a lawyer and he put me to work in his office. I learned a lot there. One time I even thought I might go to law school. ... That's where I picked up the business about making a will invalid. That happened to him once. I swear I would never have used that if I'd known about your case... I was afraid to tell you, Ned. I knew you wouldn't let me do it. I'm greedy, like you said. I wanted us to have it all.
matty		I don't blame you for thinking I'm bad. I am. I know it. I'd understand if you just cut me off now. If you never trusted me again. You'd probably be smart. But you must believe one thing. I love you. I love you and need you. I want to be with you forever.
racine		They already think you're involved.
matty		I don't care.
racine		Great.
matty		There's nothing we can do about it now. In a little while we'll either have the money or we won't. It's out of our hands.
matty		I fired the housekeeper. We can stay together as long as we want. We're all alone here now.
racine		That's right. 
lowenstein		He is mad.
racine		Nooo. No, I'm not mad. Why should I be mad just because my friend here, who I've know for years, wants to know of my whereabouts on the night of our recent local murder?
lowenstein		It's not so recent anymore.   Maybe he's feeling some pressure.
grace		You brought this on yourself, man! I don't run this department, you know. There are people watching this thing. They hear you're out there banging the widow every night; it tends to call attention to you. So don't give me shit.
racine		That's my business!
grace		This whole damn case is getting crazy.
lowenstein		 Did you tell him about the glasses?
lowenstein		Seems Walker always ware glasses -- steel-rimmed glasses. He was a real fanatic about them.
lowenstein		But there were none on the scene. Coroner says they should've been there. He says that even after the fire the frames should've been seared into his -- well, you don't want to hear the details.
racine		So what?
grace		So it's looking more and more like he was killed somewhere else and brought there in his own car. Your honey, his wife, says he left the house in the middle of the night driving himself to some mysterious meeting. Is that vague enough for you?
racine		Look, what is this? What do you want? Am I supposed to be an undercover agent for you guys, or something?
lowenstein		Interesting choice of phrase.
racine		How 'bout tonight I ask her? 'Say, did you kill your husband? My friends were just wondering...'
lowenstein		Hey, that's an idea. Ask her where the glasses are, where she did it... Anything else I'm forgetting, Oscar?
oscar		Just one thing.
lowenstein		Oh, yeah! Right, right. You'll love this, Ned, this latest development. Maybe you'll be able to work up a little sympathy for us, see why Oscar here has a tendency to get carried away. Tell him, Oscar. This is rich.
oscar		This is from the sister-in-law, the Kraft woman. She's been driving me batty lately. She's convinced she ain't gonna be out into the will. It seems that a couple weeks before the murder, Walker's niece stayed up there for a while with your friend Matty. One night she waxes up, goes to see her aunt and catches the lady with some guy.
lowenstein		Do you get it?    In the act or some fucking thing!
grace		We haven't got all the details yet. Mrs. Kraft is bringing the little girl up here today to tell us her story.
lowenstein		 Oh, they're here. I ran into them on the way in. They're waiting outside.
grace		Christ. I'm not sure I'm up to dealing with this scene.
grace		 Listen, you probably don't want to see the Kraft woman right now. She's a little wild. Why don't you slip out the back way here?
racine		Are we done here?
grace		 I've got it all here. And, Ned, I'm sorry I had to ask.
racine		I'll go out this way. I've had a lot of experience with disgruntled people.  I'll be over to Stella's, if you want to have some lunch.
racine		Hello, Mrs. Kraft.
roz		Hello, Mr. Racine.
racine		How are you making out?
roz		We're all right, I guess.
racine		You must be Heather.
racine		I'm Ned Racine, Heather. I've heard a lot about you. It's nice to meet you.
heather		Thank you.
racine		I'm sorry our town is so hot for your visit.
heather		It sure is.
racine		 Goodbye.
roz		Goodbye.
stella		 Hi, Racine. How you doing today?
racine		I'm fine, Stella. I'm fine.    What's the latest? Any hot news?
stella		Nothing much doing. What'll it be?
racine		What's the special?
stella		Veal outlets.
racine		What day'd you cook 'em?
stella		They're fresh this month.
lowenstein		 The usual, my sweet.
lowenstein		Are you ready to hear something wild?
racine		I don't know. I may have had my share for the day.
lowenstein		No, this is right up your alley.
lowenstein		Little Heather comes out onto the back porch, and this dude is out there with her aunt, see? And he's turned away with his pants or shorts or whatever dropped, so he's mooning the little girl, right. And he and your friend are going at something which Heather couldn't quite figure out.
lowenstein		Poor little Heather! She's never seen one angry before. But it made quite an impression on her. Yessirree! That's all she can remember.
racine		That's it?
lowenstein		One other thing. She says the guy's hair was greasy. He wore it slicked back. "Like a Cuban," she says. I loved that!  Can you imagine poor Heather? She hustled back to bed after getting a gander at that. And listen to why she got up in the first place, this is the capper. She had a nightmare! Christ, can you imagine what kinds of dreams she had the rest of the night?
racine		Don't say that.     Don't say you don't have them.
matty		I swear to you, I don't.     What's wrong with you?
racine		They had to be here when you cleaned up that night. Think about it, think hard. They've probably got my prints on them.
matty		I must have missed them. I wasn't looking for them. I thought they were on Edmund.
racine		So where could they have gone?
matty		I don't know.  Betty!
racine		The housekeeper?  Where would she have put them?     You've been through his things.
matty		She might have taken them.
matty		Listen to me. That's why I fired her. After Edmund's death she started acting strange. She was always watching me, listening to my calls.
racine		That's crazy. You imagined it. I know, I've been imagining things, too. Plenty.
matty		No, Ned, not with her I wasn't. I could tell there was a difference. Maybe she know about us. Maybe she wants something.
racine		Don't you think we would have heard from her by now?
matty		I don't know what to think. I'm worried. But it's not about the glasses. Or your friends. It's us.
racine		I'm sorry.
matty		Your first reaction is to accuse me. What's happening to you? I don't know if we can hold on like this.
matty		Hardin called today. He said everything should be cleared up by next week. I'll get the money  He apologized for the delay.
racine		They've been stalling. They're draggin it out, hoping they'd come up with some way to implicate you.
matty		But they haven't been able to. Soon it'll be all ours. That's why we've got to hold together, Ned. It won't be long, then we'll get away from here. Out from under all this.  All we have is each other. I'd kill myself if I thought this thing would destroy us. I couldn't take it.  His arms enclose her.  INT. REGISTRATION DESK - HILTON HOTEL - MIAMI - DAY  Oscar Grace has been talking to the Desk Clerk, who now disappears and returns with the Hotel Manager.  INT. BOOKKEEPING OFFICE - HILTON - DAY  Oscar and the Hotel Manager watch as a Data Clerk extracts a sheet of freshly-printed billing information from a computer. He points to a section of the read-out.  EXT. PARKING STRUCTURE - HILTON HOTEL - DAY  Oscar talks to the Parking Attendant who handled Racine's Stingray. Oscar looks around the structure.  INT. CORRIDOR - HILTON HOTEL - DAY  The door to a hotel room is open in the foreground, but Oscar is down the hall looking at the door to the stairwell.  INT. MIAMI POLICE DEPARTMENT - DETECTIVE BUREAU - DAY  Oscar sits across the desk from a Plainclothes Cop, who is talking on the phone. The Plainclothes Cop hears what he wants on the phone and nods to Oscar, tapping a spot on a list that lies before him. Oscar gets up and looks to see where he's pointing.  EXT. HERTZ RENT-A-CAR OFFICE - DAY  Oscar can be seen inside, talking to the Attendant on duty.  EXT. REAL ESTATE OFFICE - NIGHT  Oscar, totally beat, sits in his car. The Real Estate Agent we saw with Racine comes up, unctuously ushering Two Businessmen. As he shows them inside, Oscar approaches him, getting out his I.D. He and the Real Estate Agent shake hands. 
lowenstein		Hi, Ned.
racine		What are you doing here?
lowenstein		I've been looking for you.
racine		Yeah?
lowenstein		Yeah.    You always run this late?
racine		Nah. I'm going to Miami tomorrow. I'm not gonna have time.
lowenstein		What's in Miami?
racine		I'm closing this real estate deal I've been working on.
lowenstein		You're some kind of health nut.  Matty Walker smokes that same brand. I noticed that.
racine		Is this gonna be one of those conversations? Maybe I should have my lawyer present.
lowenstein		Buddy, your lawyer is present.
lowenstein		You know, that Edmund Walker was a bad guy. The more I find out about him, the happier I am he's dead. I figure it's a positive thing for the world.
racine		You're not known for being a hardliner.
lowenstein		Mmm. I have my own standards. I try to keep them private.  But Oscar, Oscar's not like that. His whole life is based on doing the right thing. He's the only person I know like that. Sometimes it's a real pain in the ass. Even for him.
lowenstein		Oscar's unhappy right now. He's in pain.
racine		Why is that?
lowenstein		Because he likes you. He likes you even better than I do.  Oscar thought any story she could tell might help you. He thinks you need help.
lowenstein		Someone's putting you in deep trouble, my friend. From about three thirty to five AM on the night Walker was killed, someone called your hotel room repeatedly. The hotel didn't want to put them through, but whoever was calling convinced them it was an emergency. The phone rang and rang, but you didn't answer.
lowenstein		Don't say anything. Save it for some Other time. It gets worse.  Now someone's trying to give us Edmund's glasses. We don't know who. We don't know what the glasses will tell us. But our negotiations are continuing.
lowenstein		I wish I knew what to tell you, Ned. But I don't have any good ideas.
lowenstein		I'll see ya.
glenn		We know each other, don't we?  I'm Michael Glenn. With Bashford, Hillerman.
racine		Ned Racine.
glenn		Christ, I've done it again.  I'm just meeting some people.
glenn		Hey, this is silly. You're not still mad about that Gourson business?  We had to do it. Costanza practically insisted we sue you. Listen, nobody at our place likes malpractice against other lawyers.
racine		Forget it.
glenn		I tried to make it up to you.
glenn		Did you ever meet a lady named Matty Walker? You'd remember her. A very hot number.
racine		Matty Walker?
glenn		 Yeah. I met her at a party. She said she was going up there and she wanted to know about lawyers. I gave her your name.
racine		When was this?
glenn		 I don't know... long time. Maybe September.
glenn		Oops, gotta go.
racine		Did you tell her about the Gourson case?
glenn		 Hey, I was trying to get you work.
racine		Did you tell her about Gourson?
glenn		Jesus, are you nuts?
glenn		Maybe I told her how we met. Yeah, maybe.
beverly		Is there something wrong with your phone?
racine		Just off the hook. What?
beverly		Teddy Laursen is in County. He's very anxious to talk to you. He sounded bad.
beverly		Hey, are you all right?
teddy		I don't know. It's a thing in Lauderdale. Something must've gone wrong, but they're not telling me. I'm a little worried.
racine		I'll find out.
teddy		No, no. That's not why I called you. In fact, I got me another lawyer.
teddy		I think it would be better. You know Schlisgal.
racine		 He's good.
teddy		This broad came to me last week. A real looker. She said you told her how to reach me, I figured you musta, she knew all about it.  She said you wanted another one.
teddy		Yeah, I was afraid of that. But I'm a slow thinker. 
teddy		Then I'm glad I told you. Watch your step.
racine		Thanks, Teddy.
teddy		Racine... Don't thank me yet. These guys here, they've been asking me about The Breakers.  I haven't told 'em shit. But I don't like the look on their faces.
beverly		 Ned. It's Mrs. Walker. Do you want her?
racine		Yeah.  Hello.
matty		 Hello, Ned. Can we talk?
racine		Okay. Where are you?
matty		I'm in Miami. I've been running around like crazy and I could reach you before I left.
racine		Tell me.
matty		I've got the money. I've taken it and sent it somewhere safe. It's all ours now.  But that's not the best part.
racine		What's the best part?
matty		The glasses. I got them back. That is, they should be ours by now. Betty had them. She wanted money. That's why I had to come down here. She made it all very difficult, but I think it worked out.
racine		Do you have them?
matty		No. She wouldn't do that. She's putting them in the boathouse. In the top drawer of the dresser in the boathouse. They should be there now, if she's kept up her end.
racine		Yes.
matty		I think you'd better get them right away. I don't trust her.
racine		In the boathouse.
matty		That's right. The top drawer of the dresser. Oh. Ned, we're going to be all right. I'll leave here as soon 
matty		Are you all right?
racine		Yes.
matty		Good-bye, sweetheart.
grace		Teddy, this is Detective Knapp from the Fort Lauderdale Arson Squad. He's brought some very bad news about that fire. Seems there were two people who didn't get out.
grace		I know, Teddy. It's not like     you. And I'm willing to make that     clear to anybody who'll listen. But     you're going to have to help me out     on this Breakers business.
lowenstein		Stupid. That's always been the problem.  Her mind encompasses his.
grace		I better go get him.
matty		Hello, darling.
racine		Hello, Matty.
matty		Where's your car?
racine		In the back. With yours.
matty		Why haven't you turned on the lights?
racine		I could see.
matty		It's all ours now, Ned. We could leave tonight if we wanted. It's over.
racine		Yes, it is.
matty		 What's this --?
racine		It's Edmund's gun. You remember it, don't you?
matty		What is it, Ned? What's happened?
racine		I think you know.
matty		No.   I swear to you, I don't!
racine		It's the glasses, Matty.
matty		Weren't they there? Didn't she bring them?
racine		I didn't see them.
matty		She promised she'd bring them.
racine		Maybe I missed them. The way you missed them that night.
matty		Ned, I don't know what you think, but you're wrong. I haven't done anything to hurt you. I love you. You've got to believe me.
racine		Keep talking, Matty. Experience shows I can be convinced of anything.
matty		I did arrange to meet you. But, Ned, it all changed. You changed it. I fell in love with you. I didn't plan that...
racine		You never quit, do you? You just keep on coming.
matty		How can I prove it to you? What can I say?
racine		The glasses, Matty. Why don't you go down there and get them?
matty		But you said they weren't there.
racine		I said I didn't see them.
matty		I'll go, Ned. I'll go and look for them.
matty		Ned... no matter what you think, I do love you.
racine		No, Matty! Stop! Don't go in! Matty.
racine		She's alive.
racine		But what if that was someone else's body in there? What if it was already there when I got there -- dead and waiting for me. Maybe her friend... Mary Ann.
grace		Her teeth were left, man. We sent them back to Illinois. The identification was positive. That was her, that was Matty Tyler Walker. That was her and she's dead.
racine		You're not listening to me. What if she's been using this other girl's name? Since she met Walker three years ago, since she first spotted him and decided to take him... one way or another. Maybe Walker -- or any of us -- never knew her real name.
grace		Why would she want to hide her identity?
racine		I don't know. Maybe there was something in her past, something so bad she was afraid it would queer it with Walker if he found out -- that he'd never marry her.
racine		Let's say she's living as the other girl, this girl from her past. Someone whose history she knew and could use any way she wanted. And there's only one person in the world who knows the truth. 
racine		But when Matty sees a way to get rid of both of them at once. A way to solve all her problems and get clear, with no one looking for her. At the boathouse. You find two bodies, me and this girl. Two killers dead. Case closed.
racine		You can't find the money, can you, Oscar? Doesn't that tell you something?
grace		It tells    me she moved it and we can't find it.    And that don't mean shit. It could    be sittin' in any bank in the world    waiting for a dead lady to come for    it.
grace		Do you hear what you're saying? It's crazy. This Matty would've had to been one quick, smart broad.
racine		Oscar, don't you understand? That was her special gift she was relentless.  Matty was the kind of person who could do what was necessary. Whatever was necessary.
grace		Racine, you got to face something. You killed Edmund Walker, man. And you're going down for it. Two people are dead. And no matter how you want to figure it, you ain't bringin' either of 'em back to life.
matty		What?
matty		Yes.
****Dialogues from script :Body_of_Evidence.txt****

cardenas		Is it Marsh?
reese		Yeah.
reese		Sir, do you mind if we get out of the rain?
cardenas		Who found him?
reese		His Secretary.  Joanne Braslow.
cardenas		She was here?
reese		No.  She stopped by to pick up some papers.
cardenas		Show me.
cardenas		How long? 3
mccurdy		About three hours.
cardenas		Cause?
mccurdy		Not sure.  I'll have everything you need tomorrow.
reese		Take a look at this.
troxell		This guy was into some kinky shit.
cardenas		Miss Braslow -- I'm District Attorney John Cardenas.  You arrived at what time tonight?
joanne		A little after eleven.
cardenas		Why did you come by?
joanne		I had some papers to pick up.
cardenas		Do you know who Mr. Marsh was with?
joanne		I assume his girlfriend.
cardenas		Her name?
joanne		Rebecca Lawson.
cardenas		You wouldn't know her address, would you?
joanne		No -- but I can get it for you.
cardenas		Thank you.
mccurdy		Marsh wasn't alone.  We found traces of sperm on the sheets.  The toxicology report says there were high levels of cocaine in his blood.
cardenas		What'd he die of?
mccurdy		The official cause of death was a cardiac arrest.
cardenas		The official cause?
mccurdy		That's what my report will read.
cardenas		But there's more?
mccurdy		It's speculative at this point. Marsh had advanced Arterial disease. His heart attack was induced by excessive aerobic activity -- in conjunction with the drug.
cardenas		 What are you saying, Henry?  That his girlfriend fucked him to death?
mccurdy		Yes.
cardenas		What can we prove?
mccurdy		We know Marsh had a head cold.   We found cocaine mixed with water in a nasal spray container on the nightstand.  The coke would contract the nasal membrane the same as any decongestant, but for a much shorter time.  He'd keep using more and more -- never knowing what he was taking.
cardenas		Any prints on the nasal spray?
reese		Marsh's and Rebecca Lawson's.
troxell		What if he did know what was in it? A lot of users put it in nasal spray bottles so they can use it in public.
mccurdy		Cocaine is the last thing a man in his condition would want.
cardenas		Can we put Rebecca Lawson at the scene?
reese		A man across the street from Marsh saw her drive up about four thirty Sunday afternoon.  And her prints are all over the place.
troxell		Marsh's Cardiologist told me that after Marsh was diagnosed with heart disease he quit smoking, quit drinking and started exercising every day.  Does that sound like a guy who'd start shoveling cocaine up his nose?
cardenas		What did he say about Miss Lawson?
troxell		He can remember at least one occasion -- and the receptionist can recall two times when she accompanied Marsh to the office.
cardenas		So she knew about his heart?
troxell		Had to.  I also interviewed three women who were in past relationships with Marsh.  There's no evidence that he had anything but straight sex prior to meeting Miss Lawson.
cardenas		What about the will?
troxell		That's the best part.  She gets it all -- everything.
cardenas		Miss Lawson?
cardenas		I'm District Attorney, John Cardenas.
sattler		I don't think that this is the time, or the place.
cardenas		I just wanted to introduce myself and inform Miss Lawson that there will be an inquiry.
sattler		An inquiry into what?
cardenas		For starters I'd like to know why she left the house and didn't report the death?
sattler		Because he wasn't dead when she left, and even if he was, not reporting a natural death in a timely fashion isn't a crime.
cardenas		Did I say it was a natural death?
sharon		You're on vacation, remember?  You're supposed to be relaxing.
dulaney		I am relaxing.
sharon		 This is not relaxing.
dulaney		 Really?
sharon		Really.
dulaney		 And I suppose you're going to show me how to relax?
sharon		If you want me to.
dulaney		I'm always open to learning new things.
dulaney		I'm beginning to see what you mean. Why don't we go upstairs and work on the advanced course?
sharon		I can't.  I've got to finish a counter offer on the Bergman property.
dulaney		Can't it wait?
sharon		No -- it has to be done by tomorrow.
dulaney		Hey, Slugger.  Ready for bed?
michael		Uh huh.
dulaney		 That was Sattler.  He thinks the D.A.'s going to file on Rebecca Lawson.  He wants me in the office tomorrow morning.
sharon		We're supposed to go to the lake.
dulaney		I know.  What can I do?  He is the boss.
sharon		He could let you have your vacation.
michael		Dad -- is it true what they're saying about that Miss Lawson Lady?
dulaney		What are they saying?
michael		The kids at school say she humped Mr. Marsh to death.
dulaney		Hey, you know better than that.  What did I teach you to say when someone is accused of doing something?
michael		She allegedly humped him to death?
sharon		I swear -- the both of you.  Some example you set.
dulaney		 Some example you set.
dulaney		Andrew Marsh was a very wealthy man. A trial like this is going to put Cardenas in the spot-light.
sattler		We've already got press arriving from over the country and she hasn't even been charged yet. Cardenas wants to see her in his office tomorrow at ten.  I'd like you to go with her.
dulaney		I'm supposed to be on vacation.
sattler		I know -- but she wants you to represent her if Cardenas files.
dulaney		Why?
sattler		Because I told her you were the best criminal attorney we have.
dulaney		Raymond, I'm the only criminal attorney you have.
sattler		 Look, Frank -- she stands to inherit three million dollars.  As executors of the estate and her attorneys that could generate a lot of legal fees for us.  All I'm asking you to do is talk to her.
dulaney		Alright, I'll talk to her
sattler		She's waiting in the conference room.
sattler		 You know, I knew Andrew Marsh for almost twenty years -- or thought I did.  What do you think would make a man in his condition do the things he did?
dulaney		I think the question is:  What is it about her that made him want to do it?
dulaney		Miss Lawson, I'm Frank Dulaney.
rebecca		 Are you going to represent me?
dulaney		There are no charges against you. I'm here to decide if I'm going to represent you should that occur.  Did you kill him?
rebecca		You don't waste any time, do you?
rebecca		 Do you think I did it?
dulaney		I don't know.  That's why I'm asking you.
rebecca		You must have some feeling.  Some immediate impression.  A young, attractive woman, involved with an older man who leaves her everything in his will.  And the things that went on in that house.  Such wild sex.  What kind of picture does that paint?
dulaney		Not a very good one I'm afraid.
rebecca		And that's exactly what the jury will see when they look at me.  That's why I need a very good lawyer, Mr. Dulaney.
dulaney		You're assuming the District Attorney is going to file charges.
rebecca		He'll file.  He's an ambitious man. Ambitious men build their careers on the bodies of others.
dulaney		You still haven't answered my question.
rebecca		 I loved him.  A big part of my life has been torn away from me, Mr. Dulaney.  A part I can never get back -- and on top of that people are saying that I am somehow responsible for it.  They've taken everything that is good and caring about two people in love and made it dirty.
rebecca		No -- I didn't kill him.
troxell		I think I'm going to make your day.
cardenas		How?
troxell		I've got this guy in my office. Doctor Alan Paley.  Wait until you hear what he has to say.
sharon		How can Cardenas possibly think he can build a case against two consenting adults?
dulaney		He must have something or he wouldn't be pressing so hard.
sharon		If he files are you going to take the case?
dulaney		I don't know yet.  I want to hear what she says at her statement tomorrow.
sharon		What's she like?
dulaney		Attractive.  Bright.  Distant. Charming when she wants to be.
sharon		She sounds like quite a woman.
dulaney		 Yeah -- but can she cook?
sharon		The whole thing gives me the creeps. I mean -- what if she really humped him to death?
dulaney		Humped
sharon		 Yes.
dulaney		I can think of worse ways to go--
dulaney		 --and speaking of humping.
rebecca		I didn't know that Andrew was dead until Mr. Sattler called me at home that night.
reese		We have a witness who saw you go into the house at four thirty.
dulaney		She's not denying she was there.
reese		Did you have sex?
rebecca		Yes.
reese		What time did you leave?
rebecca		Six thirty -- and he was very much alive.
cardenas		Miss Lawson, do you use cocaine?
rebecca		I have.
cardenas		Did you use it the night Marsh died?
rebecca		No.  I haven't done it in years.
reese		Did Marsh use it?
rebecca		No -- never.
reese		It had to get there somehow.
rebecca		It didn't get there from me.
cardenas		Were you aware of Mr. Marsh's heart condition?
rebecca		No.
cardenas		Mr. Marsh's Cardiologist and his nurse have told us that you accompanied Mr. Marsh to their office on at least two occasions.
rebecca		That's correct -- but Andrew never told me he had a heart condition.  He said he had a heart arrhythmia and it was nothing serious.
reese		He never mentioned his heart disease?
dulaney		She just said that.
reese		Why do you think he lied to you?
dulaney		That's something only Marsh would know.
reese		I think Miss Lawson knew it too.  I think she slipped him the coke and he popped his cork giving her the high- hard-one.
dulaney		That's it.  My client doesn't have to take this crap from you.
cardenas		Sit down, Frank.
dulaney		No.  Miss Lawson came in here voluntarily to answer your questions. She doesn't have to sit here and be insulted.  So, either you charge her now or we're leaving.
cardenas		Fine.
reese		Rebecca Lawson, you're under arrest for the murder of Andrew Marsh.
reese		You have the right to remain silent. If you give up--
cardenas		 I don't think the handcuffs will be necessary.  You can finish giving Miss Lawson her rights outside.
rebecca		 Frank!
dulaney		I'll have you out in a few hours.
dulaney		Lookin' to make the papers, John?
cardenas		Marsh left her close to three million dollars in his will.  That's motive. She admits to being there the night of his death.  That's opportunity -- and her fingerprints are on the nasal spray bottle.
dulaney		 You can't show intent.
dulaney		 Can you?
cardenas		Take your pole out of the water, Frank.  The fish ain't biting today.
dulaney		You're bluffing.  John, it's me, remember?  I've known you since your name was Juan Carlos.
dulaney		 C'mon -- think about it.  If she was going to kill Marsh why leave the nasal spray bottle there for the police to find?
cardenas		She planned this.  She wanted us to find the nasal spray.
dulaney		Why would she want that?
cardenas		Because she's clever.  Because she knows that even if we didn't find it we'd have suspicions as to why a man in Marsh's condition would use cocaine.
dulaney		Suspicions maybe -- but suspicions aren't enough for a conviction.
cardenas		The M.E.'s report stated that Marsh's nasal membranes showed no sign of prior cocaine use.  Without the nasal spray we would have still treated it as a poisoning.  We would have looked for motive and the trail would have still led back to her.
dulaney		I don't buy it and neither will a jury.
cardenas		We're going all the way on this one, Frank.  Tell your client she has until the prelim to cop a plea for murder two -- fifteen to twenty five.
dulaney		I'll tell her but she won't take it.
cardenas		Then she's not as smart as I thought she was.  You've seen her in the depositions.  Tell me you don't have any doubts?
dulaney		She's innocent.
cardenas		Aren't they all?
dulaney		Yeah.  Well -- we'll let the blindfolded lady with the scales decide that.
dulaney		I want you to know right now that the trial's going to be nasty.  Your sex life is going to be dragged through the mud.  They're going to say that you enticed Marsh -- led him down a dark path.
rebecca		Andrew hardly needed leading.  He was a very passionate man.  He was eager to explore.  I gave him what he wanted.  We fulfilled each others needs.
dulaney		This is a very small town -- people here have very straight views on sex.
rebecca		I'm used to being on the outside looking in.  The same men who will publicly profess their moral outrage for my sexual tastes are the same ones who privately rest their sweaty little hands on my legs and talk about weekend trips together.
dulaney		Those same men will be sitting on the jury.
rebecca		I am who I am.  I can't deny it, anymore than you can deny who you are.  I like sex different -- I like it wild.  That's not a crime.  I loved Andrew.  We made love together.  We made it differently, but we still made love.  It was our way.  It was private -- and now the whole world wants to look in through the pretense of justice.  If I was some middle-aged divorcee who screwed him once a week do you think this would be happening to me?
rebecca		Have you ever seen animals make love, Mr. Dulaney?  They have such passion -- such savage emotion.  They struggle, and snarl, and claw, but neither hurts the other.  Not really.
dulaney		No pain, no gain?
rebecca		Something like that.
dulaney		We're not animals.
rebecca		Of course we are.  Our primal urges are still there -- but we've taken sex and intellectualized it, refined it down to its most essential components.  It's bland, easy, mechanical.  There's great passion in the struggle -- such craving in denial.  Do you know what it's like to yearn for something?  I'm not talking about wanting, or needing. I'm talking about an urge so deep that your skin burns and every cell in your body pulses with desire?
dulaney		 I think we're getting a little off the subject here.
rebecca		I thought the subject was sex?
dulaney		As it pertains to you -- not me.  Did you always know you had different... tastes?
rebecca		Yes.
dulaney		How?
rebecca		I don't know if it's something I can explain to you.
dulaney		Why not?
rebecca		Because -- it's beyond intellect. It's emotion.  It's passion.  It has to be experienced -- it can't be imagined.
dulaney		Try.
rebecca		When I was growing up we had a strawberry patch in our backyard. So did this family down the road.  I used to sneak in their yard and steal their strawberries.  It wasn't easy. The stone walls were high and I'd scrape my knees as I climbed over. On the other side were wild rose bushes.  The thorns would dig into my legs and cut my thighs as I lowered myself down.
dulaney		If you had what you wanted at home why did you sneak into their yard?
rebecca		Because -- somehow the fruit always tasted that much sweeter because of the pain it took to get to it.
michael		Albert's got the stomach flu.
sharon		That's too bad.
michael		No, it's not.  Now I get to pitch.
sharon		Michael, you shouldn't be happy when someone else isn't feeling well.
michael		Not even if they're a dork?
sharon		Not even if they're a dork.  You should go by and see how he's feeling.
michael		No way.  Jerry Milner stopped by and Albert puked right in front of him.
sharon		Don't use language like that at the dinner table.
michael		Sorry.
sharon		Frank -- I know you're busy, but Michael asked me after dinner if you were angry with him.  He wanted to know why you weren't talking to him.
dulaney		I'll talk to him later.
sharon		Why don't you talk to him now?
dulaney		Because I go to trial in seven weeks. I've got a lot of preparing to do.
sharon		 No one's asking you not to work.  I just think you could make some time for your son.
dulaney		I'm sorry if it looks like I'm not paying attention to you lately.
dulaney		 You know how it is sometimes when you're out playing ball with your friends?  How you're really concentrating on what you're doing -- and you lose track of time and you come home late and Mom yells at you?
michael		Yeah.
dulaney		Well, that's kind of how I am right now.
michael		Is Mom yelling at you too?
dulaney		Yeah -- a little.
dulaney		I love you.
michael		I love you too, Dad.
biggs		How you doin' Mister D?
dulaney		Fine, Charlie.  You familiar with the Marsh case?
biggs		Yeah -- I hear they had 'em a real dog and pony show going on up there - -  I'll tell you, sometimes white people are a real puzzle to me.  I mean, did this old guy really think he was gonna be able to keep up with a sweet little number like that?
dulaney		It could've happened to anyone.
biggs		 I'm sorry, man -- but I ain't ever heard of no brother dying from gettin' too much pussy.
dulaney		We have to find out who else would profit from Marsh's death -- and who knew enough about his personal life to know that putting cocaine in the nasal spray would be fatal.
biggs		So -- where do we start?
dulaney		I want you to hit all the dealers in town.  Give them a list of people close to Marsh and see if any of them use.  Then I want you to check out a Doctor Alan Paley.  He lives up in Roseburg.
dulaney		 Hi... No, I don't... One o'clock is fine... Alright La Brasa... Bye.
biggs		La Brasa?
dulaney		 I'm taking a client to lunch.  Where should I go, Taco Bell?  Biggs tosses the ball to Dulaney, then raises his hands indicating he is backing off.  He leaves.  Dulaney shoots from his desk.  SWOOSH!
dulaney		How'd you meet Marsh?
rebecca		I was at a cocktail party.  Very trendy.  Andrew was in Chicago on business.  He had broken his wrist the week before and was wearing it in a sling.  He looked so helpless.
dulaney		-- And then?
rebecca		We started talking.  In fact, we talked until four in the morning.  We discovered we shared a lot of the same interests.  After that we were together all the time until he left. He used to call me every night after he came back.  Then after a few weeks he invited me to come visit him. I've never left.
dulaney		Why didn't you live together?
rebecca		Andrew was worried about how it would look.
rebecca		Can we get out of here?
dulaney		Sure.  Where to?
dulaney		This is your house.
rebecca		 I know.
dulaney		I don't think this is a good idea.
rebecca		Why not?
dulaney		Because, I'm your attorney.  I shouldn't be going to your house.
rebecca		Is it against the law?
dulaney		No -- it just doesn't look right.
rebecca		No one's looking.
rebecca		What do you think?
dulaney		I think the photographer's probably a voyeur.
rebecca		I'm the photographer.
dulaney		Oh -- Well, they're different.
rebecca		That's not an answer.
dulaney		It's not my taste.
rebecca		 Tastes can change.
rebecca		There you are.
rebecca		What are you thinking?
dulaney		Nothing.
rebecca		Not true.  Shall I tell you what you were thinking?  You were wondering if I was wearing anything under my skirt.
rebecca		I am.
rebecca		Sorry.  I wasn't trying to embarrass you.
dulaney		Yes you were.
sharon		--he said it might be too expensive to add another room.  He suggested we might convert the garage into a guest room.  He's going to check with the contractor and let me know.  I'll let you know how much and we can decide. Alright?
sharon		Is that alright, Frank?
dulaney		Yeah -- fine.  Excuse me.  I'll be right back.
dulaney		Hi.  It's Frank.
dulaney		 I just wanted to see if my secretary called to confirm your appointment tomorrow.
dulaney		Great.  I'll see you at the office at nine.
rebecca		I figured if we have to talk all day we might as well do it someplace nice.
dulaney		Yeah.
rebecca		 I could never imagine myself doing that -- but somehow when he talked about it, he made it sound so alive - - so wonderful.  Soft ocean breezes and beautiful sunsets -- leaving the world and it's problems behind.  I wish he'd had a chance to do it.
rebecca		 Sorry.
dulaney		It's okay.
dulaney		Tell me about Doctor Paley?
rebecca		I hardly know him.  He wanted me and he couldn't have me.
dulaney		It's going to be hard to convince a jury that he's testifying against you in a murder trial because you blew him off.
rebecca		 It won't be that hard.
33		 She walks off.
rebecca		Did you always want to be a lawyer?
dulaney		No -- I wanted to be a professional hockey player.
rebecca		Really?
dulaney		Yeah.
rebecca		That seems so far away from who you are now.  What happened?
dulaney		I broke my ankle skating.  That ended that dream.
rebecca		It's hard to let go of a dream, isn't it?  To let go of what you want?
rebecca		I'm going to put the car away.  You can let yourself in.  There's a key under the flower pot.
rebecca		Yes -- it would be nice.
dulaney		What would?
rebecca		You and me -- making love.
dulaney		Is that what you think I was thinking?
rebecca		No -- that's what I know you were thinking.
rebecca		How often do you make love to your wife, Frank?  Once a week?  Sometimes twice?  There once was passion, wasn't there?  But now it's bland, predictable.  Tell me, when you do it -- do you always think of her?  Or do you wonder what it would be like to be with someone else?  Someone wild. Someone who would force you to lose control.
rebecca		 There's nothing wrong in admitting that you want me, Frank.
dulaney		You take a lot for granted.
rebecca		Please stay, Frank.  I don't want to be alone.  I don't expect anything from you -- no demands -- no complications.  I just need to feel close to someone.
rebecca		I'll be back in a minute.  Help yourself to a drink.
rebecca		 My way.
rebecca		My way.
biggs		Before you ask there's nothing new on the coke.
dulaney		You've got to get me something I can use, Charlie.
biggs		I'm trying.
sattler		Frank -- this is Harvey Willows from the L.A. Times.  He'd like to ask you a few questions.
man		It's an incredible story going on here.  Woman accused of using sex to kill lover.
biggs		I'll say -- it's gonna give a whole new meaning to the state nickname.
man		 What's the state nickname?
dulaney		 The Beaver State.
joanne		I worked for Mr. Marsh for six years. He was a good man -- until she came along.
dulaney		What changed?
joanne		He did.  Look, I know you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink -- but you hold a pail of water in front of an old horse for long enough  -- and well...
dulaney		You don't really believe what the district attorney is saying about Miss Lawson, do you?
joanne		I don't know.  It's incredible to think that anyone could be capable of doing that -- but if anyone could it would be Rebecca.
dulaney		I take it you don't like Miss Lawson very much?
joanne		I really don't know her that well. We would say hello to each other when I would come to the house, but that was about it.
dulaney		If you don't know her that well what makes you think she's capable of murder?
joanne		Andrew was a kind and gentle man, but he was thirty years older than her. Where's the attraction to sleep with someone like that -- to have the kind of sex they had.
dulaney		How do you know what kind of sex they had?
joanne		I wasn't lookin' through the keyhole if that's what you're thinking.  I'd come to house sometimes to pick up papers or speak to Andrew.  I'd find their little toys all over the place.
dulaney		Did Mr. Marsh use drugs?
joanne		No.
dulaney		What about Miss Lawson?
joanne		Yes -- cocaine.
dulaney		How do you know that?
joanne		I was at the house one morning -- I thought Miss Lawson was upstairs with Mr. Marsh.  When I went into the guest bathroom she was standing in front of the mirror pouring this white powder out of a vial.
joanne		Is something wrong.
dulaney		You lied to me!
rebecca		What?
dulaney		I just left Joanne Braslow.  She told me she saw you doing cocaine at Marsh's house!
rebecca		She's mistaken.
dulaney		 That's not good enough, Goddamit!
rebecca		It isn't true.  You have to believe me.
dulaney		No, I don't have to believe you.  The jury has to believe you and answers like he's lying or she's mistaken aren't going to convince them.
rebecca		I don't use cocaine anymore.  If she says she saw me doing it she's lying.
dulaney		Why would she lie?
rebecca		I don't know, Frank -- but don't you think that's something we should find out?
dulaney		Michael -- get off the phone.
michael		Why?
dulaney		 Because I'm expecting a call.
michael		-- But it's Sunday.
dulaney		 I know what day it is!  Get off the phone.
michael		 I gotta go.  I'll call you later.
rebecca's voice		This is Rebecca Lawson.  I'm not in right now.  So if you please leave a message--
dulaney		I called you all weekend.  Where were you?
rebecca		I went out on the boat.
dulaney		 Alone?
rebecca		Of course.
judge burnham		This trial by its very nature is explosive.  The press is going to have a field day and I will not tolerate any activity in my courtroom that will fuel it.  Both of you are going to be delving into very personal aspects of peoples lives.  I warn you now.  When you do so -- if you cannot establish a clear line of relevancy early on in your examinations I will stop you.  Is that clear?
judge burnham		Mr. Cardenas.
cardenas		 You all can see the defendant, Rebecca Lawson.  But as this trial proceeds you will see that she is not only the defendant -- she is the murder weapon itself.
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney?
dulaney		I know what you're thinking -- and it's a mistake.  You look at Miss Lawson and you see a beautiful woman who was involved with an older man -- and you think she looks like the type.  She could've done it.  And that's exactly what the District Attorney wants you to think.  Yes, she is beautiful.  So what?  Does that make her a killer?  Of course not.  This case is not about appearances.  It's about facts.  As Mr. Cardenas presents his case you will see that there are very few facts -- that the bulk of the States evidence is circumstantial.  I'm confident that by the conclusion of this trial you will not just have a reasonable doubt.  You will have no doubt at all --  that Rebecca Lawson is innocent of the charges against her.
cardenas		Doctor McCurdy, what was the cause of death?
mccurdy		A massive cardiac arrest.
cardenas		What was Mr. Marsh's physical condition prior to his death?
mccurdy		Very poor.  He was suffering from severe arterial disease.
cardenas		Was the heart attack the result of natural causes?
mccurdy		No.
cardenas		What induced it?
mccurdy		We found a high concentration of cocaine in his blood.
cardenas		So, Mr. Marsh used cocaine?
mccurdy		I don't think so.  The membrane in his nasal passage didn't show any sign of long time usage.
cardenas		Then how did it get into his body?
mccurdy		We found a bottle of Dristan nasal spray on the nightstand.  It was filled with water and cocaine.  Mr. Marsh had a head cold at the time of his death.  I believe he wasn't aware that he was ingesting cocaine.
cardenas		Is this the bottle that was found on the nightstand?
mccurdy		 Yes.
cardenas		Your Honor, the State enters this evidence as exhibit A.  Were any fingerprints found on the bottle?
mccurdy		Yes -- those of Mr. Marsh and a thumb print of Miss Lawson's.
cardenas		Dr. McCurdy, what would cocaine do to someone in Mr. Marsh's condition?
mccurdy		Increase his heart rate.
cardenas		-- And if he were in the midst of making love while under the influence of cocaine?
mccurdy		It would be an added stress to his heart.
cardenas		What would be the effect if someone secretly administered cocaine to Mr. Marsh and then induced him to make love?
mccurdy		It would be the same as shooting a gun at him.
cardenas		Thank you, Doctor McCurdy.  Your witness.
dulaney		Can you say with any certainty that Mr. Marsh didn't ingest the cocaine himself?
mccurdy		No -- but it seems highly unlikely that a man in his condition would use cocaine.
dulaney		That's your opinion, Doctor -- but I'm asking you if there is any scientific test that can tell who actually put the cocaine into the Dristan bottle?
mccurdy		No.
dulaney		Thank you.
cardenas		Doctor Trammel, when did you first diagnose that Mr. Marsh had heart disease?
cardenas		Did Mr. Marsh change his lifestyle after that?
cardenas		He did everything he could to take care of his heart?
cardenas		Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh to your office?
cardenas		Just one last question.  What does the sign on your office door say?
dulaney		Dr. Trammel, did you ever speak to Miss Lawson about Mr. Marsh's condition?
dulaney		Did Mr. Marsh ever tell you that he had spoken to Miss Lawson about his illness?
dulaney		Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh inside during his examinations?
dulaney		Then you have no way of knowing what Mr. Marsh told Miss Lawson were the reasons for his visits?
cardenas		How long were you Mr Marsh's personal secretary?
joanne		Six years.
cardenas		Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use Cocaine?
joanne		No -- never.
cardenas		What about Miss Lawson?
joanne		Yes.
cardenas		Tell the court about that, please.
joanne		I opened the bathroom door one day and saw Miss Lawson pouring Cocaine out of a vial.
cardenas		Did you see Mr. Marsh the day before his death?
joanne		Yes.
cardenas		How did he look?
joanne		Horrible.  He was tired and pale.
cardenas		Did you talk about Miss Lawson?
joanne		Yes.
cardenas		What did Mr. Marsh say?
joanne		He was worried.  He said that she was acting stranger and stranger.  He said that if this kept up she was going to kill him.  That his heart couldn't take it.
cardenas		Thank you.  Your witness.
dulaney		How do you know it was cocaine that Miss Lawson had in the bathroom?
joanne		What other kind of white powder do people keep in a vial?
dulaney		Do you remember the date when you saw Miss Lawson in the bathroom?
joanne		Yes--  It was on a Friday.  I remember because I was going to visit my sister for her birthday.  It would be October twenty-eighth.
dulaney		Could you repeat the last part of what Mr. Marsh said to you the day before his death?
joanne		He said that if it kept up she was going to kill him.  That his heart couldn't take it.
dulaney		Didn't Mr. Marsh also tell you that Miss Lawson felt bored here and was thinking about going back to Chicago for awhile?
joanne		Yes -- he mentioned it.
dulaney		So, the woman he loved passionately was thinking about leaving.  That must cause tremendous anxiety. Sleepless nights.  Incredible stress.
joanne		I suppose.
dulaney		So, isn't it possible that he was confiding in you about the pain he was feeling about losing what might be his last chance for love?  That what he really was saying was that the uncertainty of her leaving was driving him crazy and if it didn't stop it was going to kill him.  That if she did leave his heart couldn't take it.
joanne		I don't know.  I'm not sure.
dulaney		Well, think about it.  Isn't it possible?
joanne		 Yes.  I suppose it's possible.
rebecca		You were brilliant today.
dulaney		It's only the beginning.
rebecca		Strong endings start with strong beginnings.  I love the way you twist what people say around --  manipulating their own words against them.
dulaney		Can I see you later?
rebecca		You can see me now.
dulaney		What are you doing?
rebecca		I want you inside me.
rebecca		Something wrong?
dulaney		Paley could be a problem tomorrow.
rebecca		I'm sure you'll be able to handle him.
dulaney		I'm glad you have such confidence in me.
rebecca		Don't worry about Paley.  He can't touch me.  No one can.  I've thought it all out.
dulaney		 What does that mean?  You've been thinking about the case?  Or you thought everything out before you killed Marsh?
dulaney		I'm sorry.  Rebecca -- I'm sorry.  Really.
rebecca		Sugar or honey?
dulaney		Honey.
his pov		 A PHOTOGRAPH of Dulaney and Sharon on vacation.  Dulaney is carrying her on a beach.  He is wearing a LARGE SOMBRERO.  They are both laughing. Dulaney looks back at Sharon.  He is a man lost within himself. He walks to the bathroom.  Sharon opens her eyes and stares at him.
cardenas		The State calls Doctor Alan Paley.
cardenas		Where did you meet Miss Lawson?
cardenas		Did you ever see her again after that?
cardenas		What eventually happened to your relationship with Miss Lawson?
cardenas		Why?
cardenas		What kind of information?
cardenas		Did you suggest any?
cardenas		What did she say?
cardenas		-- And what did you suggest?
cardenas		 Your witness.
dulaney		Dr. Paley, where were you the last time you saw Miss Lawson?
dulaney		Isn't it true that later that night you tried to force yourself on Miss Lawson in the parking lot?
dulaney		You didn't grab her and try to kiss her?
dulaney		If necessary I can bring in the valet parking attendant and two customers who witnessed the occurrence.
dulaney		And the argument was about the fact that you wanted to be romantically involved and she did not.
dulaney		And after that didn't you continuously harass Miss Lawson?
dulaney		Your Honor, this is a tape from Miss Lawson's answering machine.  I would like to play it now.
cardenas		Objection.  Your Honor, we don't know where this tape is from.  Who made it -- or under what circumstances it was made.
dulaney		These are reports from two independent audio labs.  They each state that the voices were recorded over the phone and that no alterations have been made.
judge burnham		I'll allow it.
dulaney		 You'll be sorry?
dulaney		You're still angry, aren't you? Isn't it true that your whole story is nothing more than a vindictive attempt on your behalf to get back at Miss Lawson?
dulaney		I suggest it never happened.
dulaney		No further questions.
dulaney		That's all Dr. Paley.
dulaney		What the...  What are you doing?
dulaney		 Rebecca -- take these off.
rebecca		Tonight we open new doors.
dulaney		What are you going you doing?
rebecca		Are you scared?
rebecca		 I love you, Frank.  I love your strength -- be strong for me now.
dulaney		 Rebecca -- please.  No more.
rebecca		I told you in the beginning that it was my way.  My way can be many things -- pleasure or pain.
rebecca		You see how life is, Frank?  We judge things.  We look at things from the outside and assume we know what's on the inside.
rebecca		Water.  But you assumed it was vinegar -- because you were only looking at the outside.
sharon		Late night?
dulaney		Yeah -- what are you doing up?
sharon		We have to talk.
dulaney		What's wrong?
sharon		That's what I was hoping you'd tell me.
dulaney		Sharon, it's late.  Can we get to the point?
sharon		Where have you been?
dulaney		Working.  Charlie and I were going over some statements.
sharon		Charlie called at eleven thirty looking for you.  You were with her, weren't you?
dulaney		Yes.
sharon		Why did you lie to me?
dulaney		Because I knew you'd think exactly what you're thinking.
sharon		This isn't a courtroom.  Don't try to turn this around on me.
dulaney		I'm not.
sharon		You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
dulaney		No.
sharon		It's bad enough that you are.  It's even worse that you can stand here and lie to me.
dulaney		Sharon...
sharon		You bastard!  Do you think I'm some kind of idiot?  That I don't have fuckin' eyes.  I see.  I feel.  I hurt.
61		 She walks out of the room, leaving Dulaney alone with his thoughts.
cardenas		Mrs. Crawford, you were Mr. Marsh's maid for nine years?
ester		Yes.
cardenas		Did Miss Lawson and Mr. Marsh ever argue?
ester		Like cats and dogs.
cardenas		What did they argue about?
ester		You name it -- they argued about it. Mr. Marsh tried his best to keep her happy -- but it seemed that no matter what he did it was never enough for her.
cardenas		Did they argue the day before he died?
ester		Well -- he died on a Sunday and I have the weekends off -- but they were ripping at each other with both barrels Friday afternoon.
cardenas		What was the nature of the argument?
ester		Sex.
cardenas		Could you be more specific?
ester		She was calling Mr. Marsh an old man -- making discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities.  She said that she had needs and that if he couldn't fulfill them she'd find someone who could.
cardenas		Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use cocaine?
ester		No -- never.
cardenas		 Your witness.
dulaney		Did you go to college, Mrs. Crawford?
ester		No.
dulaney		High school?
ester		No.
cardenas		Your Honor, I fail to see what Mrs Crawford's educational background has to do with this case.
dulaney		I was just about to make my point, Your Honor.
judge burnham		Do it quickly, Mr. Dulaney.
dulaney		 "Discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities."  Who told you to say that?
dulaney		Did Mr. Troxell help you with that phrase?
ester		I heard him say it.
dulaney		Then -- those are not your own words?
ester		No.
dulaney		What else did the District Attorney's Office tell you to say?
cardenas		Objection, Your Honor.  The fact that Mrs. Crawford heard Mr. Troxell reconstruct her sentence and decided to rephrase her words in a more intelligent manner for the court doesn't mean the incident never happened.
dulaney		 I'm just curious to see if Mr. Troxell reconstructed anything else.
cardenas		Your Honor -- please!
judge burnham		I'll see both of you in my chambers. Right now.
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney, before you cast aspersions on the District Attorney's Office by suggesting they've coaxed this witness to say things that aren't true -- you better have more than a hunch.  Do you?
dulaney		No, Your Honor.
judge burnham		Maybe you don't know what it's like where Mrs. Crawford comes from -- but I do.  I came from a neighborhood just like hers.  This is a whole other world for her.  She's a poor working woman who has been thrust into a room full of highly educated and mostly unsympathetic people.  So, she puts on her best dress, fixes her hair and tries to present herself as intelligently as possible.  Being poor and having pride is not a crime, Mr. Dulaney -- and before you attempt to impeach another witness' testimony in my courtroom -- your foundations better be based on something other than semantics.
cardenas		I'm surprised you can walk after the way Burnham chewed your ass out this afternoon.
dulaney		 I've got work to do.
cardenas		Hey -- the bell's sounded.  It's between rounds.
dulaney		I didn't hear it.
cardenas		What's happening to you, Frank? You're acting like you're on trial here.  This has become personal to you.
dulaney		Back off, John.
cardenas		You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
dulaney		That's ridiculous.
cardenas		I'm talking to you as a friend now. Don't ruin your life, your career for her.  She'll spit you out when this is over.
dulaney		You don't know what you're talking about.
cardenas		Really?  What does an attorney speak to his client about at her house until three o'clock in the morning?
dulaney		You've been following me?
cardenas		Her.  It's an obvious move.  I'm building a case against her, remember?
cardenas		If your head wasn't up your ass you would have thought of it too.  You're losing perspective.  Get out while you can -- before she takes you down with her.
biggs		I've been waiting for you to get back.
dulaney		You got something on the coke?
biggs		No -- but I got something.
biggs		During lunch I was watching some of Marsh's home videos.
biggs		He was really into recording this stuff.  The D.A.'s office found a box full of tapes.
biggs		This girl has really got some moves, huh?
dulaney		If you want to get your kicks go to a video store and rent a porno movie.
biggs		This tape was recorded over an existing recording.
dulaney		Over what?
biggs		I would have missed it -- but the phone rang and I let it play while I talked.  It looks like blank tape -- but it isn't.  It's been erased without any input signal coming in.
dulaney		So, what good is it to us if it's been erased?
biggs		It's very good -- because when the D.A's office saw it they assumed it was the end of the tape, otherwise they would have buried it.
dulaney		Why?
biggs		Because it hasn't all been erased.
dulaney		 Where's the attraction to sleep with someone like that.
dulaney		I need to speak with you.
joanne		I don't think we have anything more to talk about, Mr. Dulaney.
dulaney		You were sleeping with Marsh.
joanne		Who told you that?
dulaney		He video taped you.
joanne		That bastard!
dulaney		I thought he was a kind, gentle man?
joanne		Yes, I slept with him but that was a long time ago.
dulaney		You're lying.  Marsh was wearing a cast on the tape.  It was right before he went to Chicago and met Miss Lawson.  He dumped you for her, didn't he?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		It must have been horrible.  Having to go there -- seeing them together - - knowing he was sleeping with her in the same bed he did with you.
joanne		I was jealous.  Of course I was hurt. He switched me off like a little toy he was finished playing with.  But I didn't kill him.
joanne		 I'm a practical woman Mr. Dulaney. Killing Andrew wasn't in my best interest.  As it is I'm out of a job and I'm not in his will.
dulaney		Money isn't the only reason people commit murder, Miss Braslow.
cardenas		The State calls Jeffery Roston.
dulaney		Your Honor, I don't see a Mr. Roston listed as a prosecution witness.
cardenas		The State's investigation just uncovered Mr. Roston yesterday afternoon in Chicago.
cardenas		Your Honor, Mr. Roston is an ex-lover of Miss Lawson's.
judge burnham		Why didn't the State's investigation uncover Mr. Roston earlier?
cardenas		He was away on an extended vacation and just returned two days ago.
judge burnham		Alright -- I'm going to allow his testimony.
dulaney		But Your Honor--
judge burnham		That's it, Mr. Dulaney.  Take a seat.
cardenas		Mr. Roston, what was your relationship with Miss Lawson?
roston		We were lovers.
cardenas		How long were you together?
roston		For about one year.
cardenas		How would you describe your sex life with Miss Lawson?
roston		Intense.
cardenas		I know this is a very personal subject, but could you be a little more specific?
roston		It was wild.  She was constantly trying to get me more and more worked up -- kinky things.  I tried to satisfy her the best I could, but it was difficult in my condition.
cardenas		What kind of condition are you referring to?
roston		I had a bad heart.
cardenas		What happened next?
roston		I had bypass surgery.
cardenas		And how are you now?
roston		Fine.  The doctors say if I keep taking care of myself I can live to be a very old man.
cardenas		How did your relationship with Miss Lawson progress after the surgery?
roston		It didn't.
cardenas		Why not?
roston		She left me.
cardenas		Why did she say she was leaving?
roston		She didn't.  She just left.
cardenas		Why do you think she left you?
roston		Well -- I think that after the operation she realized that...
dulaney		Objection.  The question calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness.
cardenas		Your Honor, Mr. Roston lived with the defendant for many months.  I feel that his opinion is valid in substantiating the character of the Miss Lawson.
dulaney		The opinion of a scorned lover is hardly an objective view.
judge burnham		Objection sustained.
cardenas		Did Miss Lawson ever give you any indication why she was leaving?
dulaney		Objection.  The witness has already stated that Miss Lawson left without an explanation.
judge burnham		Mr. Cardenas, I suggest you move on to another line of questioning.
cardenas		When you say your sexual relations with Miss Lawson were intense what exactly do you mean?
roston		It was like she was trying to push me as far as she could.  She called it opening new doors.
cardenas		Can you give the court an example?
roston		It was like sex was a game to her. She got off on the control.  She always used to tell me it had to be her way.
roston		 It's hard to resist a woman as beautiful as she is.
cardenas		What would she do that made it hard to resist?
roston		She's a woman who is very much aware of her own sexuality.  Sometimes I felt she could read my mind.  It was uncanny how she knew exactly what I wanted.  A few nights before my heart surgery Rebecca woke me.  She had handcuffed me to the bed.
roston		She told me that tonight we were going to open new doors.  I asked her to stop -- to take off the handcuffs, but she wouldn't listen.
cardenas		What did she say?
cardenas		Mr. Roston I know this is difficult for you, but it's important you tell the court what she did.
roston		She said she was going to fuck me like I've never been fucked before.
judge burnham		Due to the sensitive nature of this witness' testimony and the inability of the spectators to allow him to complete it, I am clearing the courtroom.
cardenas		What did she do next, Mr. Roston?
roston		She started touching herself and telling me how much she wanted me. She reached down and put me inside her.  My doctor had warned me about exerting myself -- but you really don't think of those things at a moment like that.  You just think about how beautiful this woman is -- how much you want her.  How deeply you want to please her.  At first it started off slowly -- but the rhythm built and built.    Every time I got close to an orgasm she would stop.  Eventually I started to have trouble breathing.  Rebecca just kept going -- faster and faster.  No matter what I said she wouldn't stop. I really thought for a moment I was going to die.
cardenas		If you knew it was bad for you why did you do it?
roston		I couldn't help myself.  You get lost inside a women like her.  It was like a drug.  It was the best sex I ever had.
cardenas		What happened after that?
roston		I woke up the next morning and she was gone.
cardenas		Did you change your will while you were with Miss Lawson?
roston		Yes.
cardenas		Who was your primary beneficiary?
roston		She was.
cardenas		Thank you.  The State rests.
judge burnham		Mister Dulaney?
judge burnham		Mister Dulaney?
dulaney		Mr. Roston, you said it was the best sex you ever had.  Is that the best sex with a woman, or a man?
cardenas		Objection!
dulaney		I'll rephrase the question.  Mr. Roston isn't it true you are bisexual?
cardenas		Objection!  Mr. Roston's sexual preferences are not at issue in this trial.
dulaney		Your Honor, I'm trying to establish the sense of betrayal Miss Lawson felt when she discovered the man she lived with was a different person than she thought he was.
judge burnham		The witness will answer the question.
dulaney		Mr. Roston?
roston		Yes.
dulaney		And your sexual tastes were something that you hid from Miss Lawson?
roston		Yes.
dulaney		And didn't Miss Lawson come home one day and find you in bed with your male lover?
roston		Yes.
dulaney		And she left shortly after that?
roston		No.  We worked things out.  It was three weeks later when I told her about the heart surgery that she left.
dulaney		Would it be fair to say that when she did find out it was a shock to her?
roston		 Yes.
dulaney		No further questions.
dulaney		What's that for?
rebecca		To celebrate how masterfully you destroyed Roston today.
dulaney		Rebecca -- we shattered a man's life in open court.
rebecca		 Fuck him!  He tried to shatter mine.
dulaney		He was only doing what he thought was right.
rebecca		You're too weak, Frank.  When you want something you have to do what- ever it takes to get it.  If something gets in your way you remove it.
dulaney		You killed him -- didn't you?
rebecca		I knew you were thinking that.  I could see it in your eyes today in the courtroom.  You're wrong, Frank. I need you to believe that.
dulaney		You don't need anybody.
rebecca		I do need you.  No matter what you think of me -- I didn't do it.
dulaney		I'm dropping the case.
rebecca		 No -- you're not.
rebecca		It gets easier, doesn't it?  Once you open the door it never closes.
rebecca		I've got another copy.  How do you think your wife would feel if she saw this -- not to mention your colleagues?
rebecca		You can think whatever you want, Frank -- but I didn't kill Andrew, and I'm not going to prison for something I didn't do.
dulaney		You're a monster.
rebecca		No -- I'm a survivor.
dulaney		I'll get it.
biggs		I'm sorry to barge in -- but I figured after that bombshell that got laid on you today you could use some good news?
dulaney		You got something on the Coke?
biggs		Do I?  I talked to one of the dealers I put the word out to.  He's been following the trial pretty closely. He said at one time he wanted to be a lawyer before he became a dealer.
dulaney		Charlie -- are you going to make a point soon?
biggs		Right now.  Guess who's been buying Coke from him for the last five and half years?
biggs		Marsh's secretary -- Joanne Braslow.
dulaney		Dr. Wong -- what type of medicine do you practice?
dulaney		--And is Miss Lawson a patient of yours?
dulaney		Why does she come to you?
dulaney		Did you ever prescribe any medication for her cramps?
dulaney		What did you prescribe for her?
dulaney		Would you describe for the court what Chinese peony root looks like?
dulaney		How do you instruct your patients to take it?
dulaney		A previous witness stated that she saw Miss Lawson pouring a white powder into her hand on October twenty-eighth.  According to your records when did you prescribe the drug?
dulaney		One last question, Doctor.  If someone didn't know better, would it be easy to mistake the peony root for cocaine?
dulaney		 Your witness.
cardenas		No questions.
judge burnham		You may call your next witness.
dulaney		The defense calls Miss Margaret Sellers.
dulaney		Miss Sellers, do you know Dr. Alan Paley?
miss sellers		Yes.
dulaney		Where did you meet him?
miss sellers		I'm a nurse.  I used to work at Roseburg Memorial Hospital.  Dr. Paley's on staff there.
dulaney		What was the nature of your relationship with Dr. Paley.
miss sellers		We dated for about a month last year.
dulaney		Then what happened?
miss sellers		I realized he wasn't serious.  He was seeing other women -- asking other nurses at the hospital out, so I ended it.
dulaney		-- And what did Dr. Paley do after you stopped seeing him?
miss sellers		He used to call me -- tell me that I couldn't just walk out on him.  He said that if I didn't come back he'd make my life miserable.
dulaney		Did he make your life miserable?
miss sellers		Yes -- he did.
dulaney		How?
cardenas		Objection!  May I remind Mr. Dulaney that the person on trial here is Miss Lawson -- not Dr. Paley.
dulaney		Your Honor, I'm trying to establish a pattern in Dr. Paley's behavior with women.
judge burnham		Objection overruled.  The witness will answer the question.
miss sellers		He'd call me in the middle of the night.  Show up at my house and bang on the door.  Finally after two weeks I went to his office one day to tell him to stop.
dulaney		What did he say?
miss sellers		He laughed -- and basically said he would decide when it was over.
dulaney		Do you remember his exact words?
miss sellers		Yes.  He said, "If you want to play games, we'll play -- and you'll be sorry."
dulaney		What happened next?
miss sellers		While I was seeing Dr. Paley I mentioned to him one night that someone was stealing drugs from the third floor dispensary.   Three days after I spoke to him in his office he went to the Head Nurse and told her he had witnessed me stealing drugs.
dulaney		What happened?
miss sellers		There was an inquiry.  It was his word against mine.  They believed him.  I was fired.
biggs		Joanne Braslow is getting more and more interesting.  I followed her today to an attorney's office. Joseph Koehler.
dulaney		Joe Koehler.  I know him.  He's an estate attorney -- and he's very expensive.
biggs		What would Joanne Braslow need with an estate attorney?  She wasn't even mentioned in Marsh's will.
dulaney		Not this will.
dulaney		Here it is!  According to the old will Joanne Braslow was to inherit two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
biggs		What good does that do -- it's the old will?
dulaney		Under the law a person cannot profit from their own wrong doing.  Since Rebecca Lawson is the sole beneficiary of the new will, if she is found guilty the will is void and Joanne Braslow could make a very good case to have the old will reinstated.
biggs		She kills the old man and makes it look like Miss Lawson did it.  Pretty slick.
dulaney		I was thinking that when the trial is over we'd all go skiing for a weekend.
sharon		Maybe it would be a good idea if you just took Michael.
dulaney		 Drug store.
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney, are you ready to call your next witness?
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney, are you with us?
dulaney		Yes, Your Honor.  The defense recalls Joanne Braslow.
judge burnham		Miss Braslow, I'd like to remind you that you are still under oath.
dulaney		How often do you use cocaine?
cardenas		Objection, Your Honor.
judge burnham		 Counsel approach the bench.
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney, I'm getting tired of seeing you this close to me.
cardenas		Whether or not Miss Braslow uses drugs is not an issue here.
dulaney		Your Honor -- the prosecution has introduced cocaine as one of the contributing reasons Mr. Marsh died. How it may have been introduced into the household is of vital importance.
judge burnham		Are you able to back up this allegation -- or are you fishing?
dulaney		I can back it up.
judge burnham		You better.  Please answer the question.
joanne		I've tried it.
dulaney		You've tried it?  Isn't it true that you've been in and out of Rehab centers for the last four years?
joanne		I've been to a few -- yes.
dulaney		You don't like Miss Lawson much do you?
joanne		 No.
dulaney		You don't like her because you were involved with Mr. Marsh before she came along.  Isn't that true?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		You resented the fact that she told you what to do in Mr. Marsh's house?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		And you resented that he cared for her in a way he once cared for you?
joanne		 Yes.
dulaney		--And that Mr. Marsh paid less attention to you?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		--and that he changed his will?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		In his previous will Mr. Marsh left you two hundred and fifty thousand dollars -- then he cut you out.  Why do you think he did that?
joanne		She talked him into it.  She wanted everything.
dulaney		Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money.  That must have made you pretty angry?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		You testified that you returned to Mr. Marsh's house at eleven o'clock the night of his murder.  Is that correct?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		Well - I'm a little confused.  Is this your signature?
joanne		 Yes.
dulaney		There's an item you picked up that's marked.  Will you read it?
joanne		Dristan nasal spray.
dulaney		Would you read for us the time of the purchase?
joanne		Three fifteen.
dulaney		A.M -- or P.M.?
joanne		P.M.
dulaney		You see that's what bothers me.  No other bottle of nasal spray was found in the house.  The police looked. There was only the one bottle.  But you say you didn't arrive until after Mr. Marsh was dead -- yet we know he was using the nasal spray prior to his death.  How do you think it got there?
joanne		I don't know.
dulaney		Isn't it true that you stopped by the house after you left the drug store and dropped off the items you bought?
joanne		 No.
dulaney		Isn't it true that you put the cocaine in the bottle?
joanne		No!  Why would I want to kill him?
dulaney		Because you were jealous.  Because he cut you out of the will.  Because you have a cocaine habit to feed -- because you know that if Rebecca Lawson is found guilty the new will is void -- and there's a very good chance the old one would be honored.
dulaney		The defense rests.
sharon		We can't go on like this, Frank.
dulaney		I know.
sharon		Talk to me.
sharon		Please -- this is ripping us apart.
dulaney		 I can't talk about it now.
sharon		Don't shut me out.  Let me in.
dulaney		You wouldn't like what you'd see. You don't know me anymore.  I don't know me anymore.
sharon		We can't pretend this isn't happening.
dulaney		Please -- not now.
sharon		Why didn't you come to me?
dulaney		I don't know.
sharon		You used to like to touch me -- to make love to me.
dulaney		It's more involved than that.
sharon		It was a place to start.
dulaney		You think that's the answer?  Sex? Is that what you want?  You want me to make love to you?
sharon		I don't want our lives ruined because of this.  I love you, Frank.  I want this to work -- but you have to help me.  You have to come back from where ever it is you are.
sharon		 Frank -- stop it!  Stop it!
dulaney		Is this what you want -- huh?  Is it?
sharon		Let me go!  Godammit, Frank let go!
dulaney		 Oh -- Jesus.
sharon		Frank?
dulaney		 I'm sorry.  God -- I'm so sorry.
dulaney		Help me.  Please -- help me.
judge burnham		Mr. Dulaney.
dulaney		The Prosecution's case is built on theory -- speculation.  Could Rebecca Lawson have done this?  Is it possible that she did that? Where are the facts?  The evidence.  The State has presented two spurned lovers and a jealous secretary.  Hardly what I would call impartial witnesses. Where is one shred of conclusive, irrefutable evidence?  I don't see it -- and I don't think you do either. Do you know why?  Because there isn't any.
dulaney		It's human nature.  We want what we want -- when we want it.  We don't think about the consequences of our actions.  When desire fills us we all do things that we know are bad for us.  We live for the moment.  We all have fires inside us -- secret desires.  We guard them --hold them in the cages that we've built.  When someone comes along and opens the gate, they rush out and feed blindly on their pleasure.  Rebecca Lawson loved Andrew Marsh.  She didn't kill him -- if anything did, it was his own passion.
cardenas		It's true -- we all have fires burning inside us.  Rebecca Lawson was very aware of the fire burning inside Andrew Marsh -- and she stoked those flames -- fanning them until they burned so hot that reason and judgement left him.  Is making love a crime?  Of course not -- but the question isn't as simple as that. Rebecca Lawson used her seductive qualities to entice Andrew Marsh. She used sex as a catalyst and cocaine as the terminus.  The combination of the two provided the conclusion of a premeditated act.  Making love is an act of passion between two people to affirm their vows of love.  This was not an act of love -- this was an act of greed. This was betrayal.  Rebecca Lawson killed Andrew Marsh -- and I'm counting on you to punish her for that crime.
dulaney		 They're back already?  It's only been three hours.
judge burnham		Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have you reached a verdict?
jury foreman		We have, Your Honor.
court clerk		The jury finds the defendant -- not guilty.
biggs		What are you gonna do now?
dulaney		Take some time off.
biggs		You think the D.A.'s gonna file on Joanne?
dulaney		I don't know.
dulaney		You did a good job, Charlie.
biggs		Thanks, Mister D.
joanne		That bastard should have left me something.  I worked for him for six years -- and he goes and gives it all to her.
joanne		You take what people say and make it ugly.  You make others believe what you want them to.  She should have been found guilty.  She shouldn't have gotten off.
dulaney		Then you would have gotten your money?
joanne		Yes.
dulaney		You killed him -- didn't you, Joanne?
joanne		Do you think if I did I'd be stupid enough to tell you?
dulaney		What do you have in your purse?
joanne		What do you think I've got?  A gun? Maybe I'm gonna kill you too.  Maybe I'll blow your head off right now.
joanne		 I'm gonna go to jail.  I know they're gonna make it look like I did it. They gotta put it on someone.
dulaney		Why'd you come here?
joanne		 To show you this.  It's a letter from that lawyer, Koehler.  He wrote it to me the day after I saw him.  He's the one who told me I could get the money if Miss Lawson went to jail.
dulaney		You didn't know about it before that?
joanne		No.
dulaney		Then why did you go see Mr. Koehler in the first place?
joanne		Because he called me.
dulaney		Hi, Joe.
koehler		Frank -- what are you doing here?
dulaney		I need to ask you a question.  What made you get in touch with Joanne Braslow?
koehler		You know I can't talk about that.
dulaney		I'm not asking for names or specifics.  I just want to know what prompted you to make the call?
koehler		Sorry.
dulaney		Please -- I need your help.
koehler		All I can tell you is I was contacted by an interested party on Miss Braslow's behalf.
dulaney		Hello?
dulaney		I'll be right there.
dulaney		Rebecca?
dulaney		 You killed him.  You killed him -- and I got you off.
rebecca		That's crazy.
dulaney		Is it?  Joanne Braslow was perfect, wasn't she?  You knew we'd see her on the tape and find out about her coke problem.  After that, the digging should have been easy -- but we missed the will.  You knew we were following her, so you called Koehler and had him contact her.  That put us right back on track.  All we needed then was to prove that she had an opportunity.  The drug store took care of that.  She dropped off the stuff and you came back and killed him.  Didn't you?
dulaney		I want the tape.
rebecca		I've been thinking about that.  I've decided to give it to you after I've collected the inheritance.  You can take that one if you want -- but there's another copy.
dulaney		That wasn't the deal.
rebecca		 Things have changed.  I think you should go home -- and after you leave I see no reason for us to ever have contact again.
dulaney		 I'm not leaving without that tape.
rebecca		Don't push me, Frank.  I might lose my temper and send it out just for spite.
dulaney		You fuckin' bitch!
man's voice		Let her go!
rebecca		You've got to kill him, Alan.
dulaney		She's right, Paley.  You've got to kill me.  She doesn't have to -- she's free -- she can't be tried again -- but you, you planned it with her.  You supplied the Coke.  You're an accessory to murder.
rebecca		Shoot him.
dulaney		Don't you see what she's doing?  She needs you to kill me.  She's planned it that way from the start.  That's why she phoned me tonight.
rebecca		No -- he's lying.
dulaney		How's it supposed to work Rebecca? You and Paley celebrate your victory. You get me over here and provoke a fight so he has to rush in and save you -- but then he's given himself away as your accomplice -- now he has to kill me.  After that I figure she'll tell the Police that you broke in.  That you were crazed because we humiliated you in court?
rebecca		Don't listen to him.  Can't you see he's trying to turn you against me.
dulaney		 Here's the good part.  The truth dies with me and she turns State's evidence against you.  It won't matter what you say.  No one will believe your version -- you've already discredited yourself in court.  You'll go away forever and she'll have the money all for herself.  She's played us both perfectly.
rebecca		Alan, listen to me.  If you don't kill him it's over.  Everything we did will be for nothing.
dulaney		She's good isn't she?  But maybe with you it's the real thing.  I'm sure all those nights she was fuckin' me she was thinking of you.
dulaney		I'm sure that every orgasm she had with me was faked.
dulaney		I mean she only screwed me two or three times a night because she had to -- I'm sure she didn't enjoy it.
rebecca		 I love you, Alan.  You have to believe I love you.  Kill him!  Kill him and we can be together forever!
dulaney		That's right, she loves you.  Just like she loved Roston and Marsh and me.  Don't be a fool.  You're nothing to her.  The second you pull that trigger she'll turn on you.
rebecca		 Give me the gun.  Give me the gun and I'll do it for you.
cardenas		Paley's confessed to the whole thing. It's like he's got no will to live now that she's gone.  She almost got away with it.  Ironic, huh?  Do you believe in karma, Frank?
cardenas		Well -- call it what you want.  Fate. Destiny.  We usually get what we deserve in the end.
dulaney		Can I go?
cardenas		 You get his statement?
troxell		Yeah.
cardenas		Then you can go.
cardenas		Frank?
cardenas		I found this video in her room.  It has your name on it.
cardenas		 I assume it's yours.
dulaney		Thanks.
****Dialogues from script :Bodyguard.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  SCREEN IS BLACK In the darkness we hear dripping water, the echoing approach of two sets of footsteps. There is the sound of a sudden, quick scuffle, a heavy fall of bodies. THREE BOOMING GUNSHOTS. Two from one gun, one from another. So fast and close, they're barely distinguish- able. The sound of the SHOTS ECHOES against concrete walls and dies away. Silence. SLOW, SLOW, FADE IN:  1   INT. UNDERGROUND GARAGE  Call 911. 
klingman		Your hands ever shake, Frank? FRANK Sometimes.   It's just adrenaline. KLINGMAN ... How did you know? FRANK I saw him washing the car. KLINGMAN I saw him. FRANK They don't wash cars on the parking levels. He hands a glass of brandy to Frank, who looks at it. KLINGMAN You know, I'd like you to stay on. He passes a small sealed envelope to Frank. FRANK I'm not good in permanent positions, my feet go to sleep. The two men smile at each other. They raise their glasses in a joint salutation -- Klingman drinks. Frank doesn't.
devaney		 $2,500. FRANK There are several good men available for that kind of money. Have you talked to Fitzgerald or Racine? Portman? DEVANEY Yeah.   Portman was interested... He senses an opening and sits down beside Frank for what he takes to be the first serious talk. DEVANEY ... but we're told you're the best. FRANK There's no such thing. DEVANEY Farmer, we're talking about a very frightened lady. With a
frank		Henry Ford, to see Mr. Devaney. EMMA Come in, please.
tony		Ehh! RACHEL  Don't worry, Rory. Tony doesn't appreciate great art. The pinned-up girl has been brought forward for Rachel's approval, elbowing Devaney a little to one side.
dress designer		 Let's see the back again... DEVANEY Rachel, raise your butt out of there and meet this man. RACHEL MARRON finally rises from the sofa.     It's a bit of
rachel		You don't look like a bodyguard. FRANK What did you expect? RACHEL I don't know. Tough guy maybe. FRANK This is my disguise. RACHEL  The back's still not right... SPECTOR, still on the phone, offers a perfunctory wave. DEVANEY ... Sy Spector, Rachel's publicist.
rachel		Can we get you a drink? FRANK Orange juice. RACHEL Straight?   Nicki. Nicki goes to the bar. Rachel sits and motions for Frank to sit opposite her. RACHEL Rory, I'll be with you in a second. Rory gets up, and goes over to his dancers at the big screen video. RACHEL Listen, this whole thing is Bill's idea... This sudden obsession with protecting me. Tony has always handled my security and we've done just fine. SPECTOR  Nicki, I'm sure Mr. Farmer would tell you the number of nuts writing fan letters jumps every time Rachel is on the cover of a magazine. DEVANEY Not like this.
devaney		Farmer, will you wait a minute? I should have told you more. I'm sorry but I was afraid she wouldn't go through with it. I thought I'd let the two of you work it out... come to an understanding. FRANK We did. Frank starts to walk off.   Devaney is grasping at straws. DEVANEY She's not a bad person, and whether she knows it or not, she needs you.  You've come this far... Would you just wait here for one minute. I want to show you something. Please, Farmer. Devaney runs back to the house.
fletcher		I've got ears. FRANK I'll remember that. Devaney trots into the pool area, out of breath. He is holding a bulging manila file. As he sees Fletcher, he holds the file casually at his side. Frank sees Fletcher looking at the file. DEVANEY How are you, Fletch?  Nice meeting you. Fletcher looks after them silently.
frank		This is a little old lady in Akron. She's written to everybody I've ever worked for. He continues to turn until something stops him. Several letters are paper-clipped together. They are the pasted- up type we saw being assembled on the desk top. SPECTOR Reagan got shot. His chatter is beginning to annoy Frank. FRANK Not on my shift. Spector emits a gratuitous laugh, acknowledges the joke. SPECTOR That's good. Frank goes back to his letters.   He taps the stack in the center of the table. FRANK At first glance, these don't bother me. But keep them. You never know. He separates one letter from the others. FRANK This could be something. Devaney searches Frank's face. DEVANEY You think it could be the same guy? The one who rigged the doll?
frank		I don't know. Did you tell Miss Marron about it? Does she know about the doll? Devaney and Spector exchange looks.   This is evidently a sore point between them.
spector		We said there'd been some electrical problem while she was on stage. Short circuit. Look, she doesn't need that kind of worry right now. It would upset her. FRANK What about the police? SPECTOR There was no reason for the police. No one got hurt. FRANK What about the chauffeur? SPECTOR It was nothing. It was just our people there. Frank turns and watches Fletcher by the pool.   Devaney's eyes are still on Frank's face. DEVANEY Sy, I think we should show him the room.
spector		She didn't have to like it... Devaney gently lays the cut-out letter on the bed. DEVANEY We found the letter here.
frank		Somebody was in here? DEVANEY Somebody broke in and ... masturbated on the bed. FRANK And she doesn't know about this either? Devaney shakes his head. SPECTOR Are you kidding? This would really freak her out. DEVANEY What do you think? FRANK Someone penetrates the house, gets upstairs and jerks off on the bed ... I'd say that qualifies as a problem. DEVANEY What kind of problem? SPECTOR  Of fuck, we don't need this now... FRANK This house is wide open. SPECTOR Excuse me? FRANK I said this house is wide open
devaney		I'll talk to her, I'll make her understand. I can do that. SPECTOR No.   I'll talk to her. Spector exits the room in a huff.
henry		And it wasn't, was it? Henry unconsciously flexes his fingers, easing the muscles in his hands. Frank notices and pulls out a small tube of ointment from a pouch he's unpacking. He hands it to Henry. FRANK Put this on your arm.    It'll help the ache. Henry takes it but is noncommittal. FRANK I'll bet you can fill up a whole day just washing the cars and driving Rachel Marron around town. HENRY That's my job. FRANK We're adding to your duties. HENRY Huh? FRANK You're my new assistant. Frank removes three boxes of cartridges from the suitcase and puts them in the back of a dresser drawer as Henry watches. HENRY Says who? FRANK Henry, I've spent a lot of time guarding people all over the world
rachel		appears beside Fletcher, looks down there too, then leads her son purposefully away. Fletcher isn't happy about it.
nicki		My own ego wall. No platinum records. Frank spots a picture of two girls.
frank		You and Rachel? NICKI When I was a kid, I put a little band together. We played high school dances, stuff like that. Then Rachel joined the act. As you can imagine, she was quite a little entertainer. Even then, she had a way of stopping the show. So I kind of quit. Professionally, anyway. FRANK You never went back? NICKI It was pretty obvious who the star in our family was. Frank looks back at the picture.    Nicki smiles.
court		I sort of lost track of you after Washington. FRANK Yeah. COURT How's the private stuff? FRANK  Fine. COURT Big money, I bet? Huh? Frank shrugs.    Court looks at Minella knowingly.
woman		 Goodbye, Nicki. So great to see you. Nicki waves and follows Rachel. Frank stays very close without seeming to walk with Rachel.
frank		No, just slow down. The car slows. ANGLE - SPECTOR AND RACHEL IN BACK
fletcher		 She's got him by the short ones, doesn't she, Frank? Frank squelches a smile at Henry.   Where did he learn that? FRANK Yeah, she makes him nervous. They watch as Devaney SCREECHES to a STOP, gets out and hurries inside.
nicki		On the patio. RACHEL He's through messing with my life.
devaney		Rachel, I'm getting goddamn sick of running up here every time he steps on your toes.  Farmer! Would you come in here a minute?
rachel		 'I don't want her doing anything she's always done.' The guy's a fanatic. DEVANEY So are the guys he's protecting you from. RACHEL Excuse me if I don't faint. NICKI Think of Fletcher --
spector		 Tuesday -- morning -- brunch. Where did you find this guy? Rachel turns ON the BLENDER and stares at Frank.
henry		 I wish Rachel didn't keep coming here. It makes me nervous. TONY Me too. 'Cept I'm not nervous 'cos I got you with me.
rachel		 You can be as you choose to be. It's an act of discipline sometimes, but it can be done. Rachel stops in her tracks... then opens the curtains and looks at herself in the mirror. Also reflected in the mirror is Frank. RACHEL That why you never stay with one of your clients? They too undisciplined for you? Or is it you're afraid you'll start to care about them?
frank		 That's right. Rachel turns to Frank. RACHEL Can't you answer straight just once? Why don't you talk to me? I'm not such a bad lady. FRANK You're too clever for me.   I can't keep up. Frank continues to search the shop and street with his gaze. Rachel steps closer to him. RACHEL Look at me, Farmer! Frank turns and looks at her. RACHEL You don't approve of me, do you? FRANK Disapproval's a luxury I can't afford. Gets in the way. RACHEL Don't like emotions getting to you, huh? Never mix business with pleasure? FRANK That's right. It's a stand-off. After a moment, Rachel motions to an outfit on a rack just behind him. RACHEL Grab that would you? Frank takes a beat.   Looks out the window. FRANK I'm here to keep you alive... not to help you shop. Fuming, Rachel sizes things up, then grabs it herself, whipping the curtain shut behind her. A smile plays across Frank's face.
frank		What's the Mayan? Spector starts to climb into the limo. SPECTOR It's a club, Frank. Come on, Henry, let's go. FRANK Spector, you've got to tell me about these things. SPECTOR I just did. He disappears inside the limo. Rachel tugs at Frank's lapels, looks him up and down, brushing something off his shoulder. Frank's annoyed. RACHEL Nice suit, Frank. Rachel is about to get in. FRANK Rachel. He removes something from his pocket, a small enameled cross. FRANK I want you to keep this. Rachel looks at it, both flattered and confused. RACHEL For me?   It's beautiful.
frank		It's fitted with a radio transmitter. When you close the clasp, it sends a signal. If there's ever a problem and we're separated, just press it and I'll know you need me.
spector		It wasn't me. The car turns a corner and there it is, The Mayan only fifty yards ahead, a mob of fans spilling out of the club, off the sidewalk and into the street.
tony		Fuckin' a. Spector whoops with uncontrolled delight from the back of the limo. Frank stares ahead in disbelief. The NOISE of the CROWD can be heard as they pull up front.
rachel		Tell me what? DEVANEY There were some letters before, Rachel... same kind of thing, threats, oddball stuff... SPECTOR We didn't want to worry you... DEVANEY ... and somebody got into the house...
rachel		 Someone was in my house? SPECTOR Okay.   Let's not get hysterical... FRANK Let's get her out of here. RACHEL Someone was in my house? SPECTOR It was weeks ago. You were out of town... RACHEL While Fletcher was there? SPECTOR Listen, Fletcher is okay. The house is like Fort Knox now. Right, Frank? FRANK We should get her out of here. Right now! SPECTOR There's no way anyone could... RACHEL No way anyone could what? SPECTOR No, wait... look everybody calm down. Calm down. DEVANEY Sy.
spector		Let's just see how she is.  How do you feel, honey? Someone comes through the door with some flowers.   Frank eases them out and gently closes the door. FRANK I can't protect her out there. RACHEL Do you think he's out there? Devaney can't answer.   She turns to Frank.
rachel		He's here, isn't he? FRANK He might be. SPECTOR We don't know that. Frank, we don't know that. Rachel is enraged. RACHEL But you know he was in my house... oh my God. DEVANEY Let's go home, Sy. We'll have to make an announcement. SPECTOR Fine, you make it, they'll tear the fucking place apart.
spector		Look. Frank, I know what you're saying. I know you want to do what's best for her. I understand that. You have a job to do here. But you have to understand that Rachel has a job to do too. And that's what she's doing - out there. She's working, Frank. That's what she does and that's where she does it. She's hot right now. This is the time for her. If she doesn't get out there, she's dead. Forget about crazy death threats, if she doesn't sing, she's dead anyway... Look, handled properly, this thing could be good for a million dollars' worth of free publicity. Frank grabs him by the collar and slams him up against a wall of curtain ropes. FRANK One word. SPECTOR It could clinch her the nomination. FRANK One word in print about any of this... Spector nods, half-gasping. Frank tightens his grip. Frank's attention is drawn by a renewed roar from the crowd. SPECTOR Trouble with you is you don't understand the sympathy vote.
spector		Look at her, fucking great.
frank		Tony, not there. TONY I'll take care of this. He heads for the door.
tony		Just follow me. He turns and heads out to the sidewalk like a bull.
frank		I know why.
frank		Hey. RACHEL You're probably wondering what I'm doing.  You didn't know I jogged, did you?
rachel		Farmer... I have this problem. This minor little problem. You see, I'd like to go out for an evening. Just me and a guy. You know...  God, this is embarrassing. I'm gonna run up ahead there. You decide. She runs up the hill to the pool area, which is now above them. He walks up after her.
rachel		Have you ever liked anybody? FRANK What do you mean? RACHEL Like me -- a girl. Frank knows what she's driving at. But he's not at all happy to relinquish this information. FRANK A long time ago. RACHEL What happened? Do you mind if I ask? FRANK Do you mind if I don't answer? RACHEL I don't want to pry... Frank smiles at that. RACHEL  She didn't die did she? You weren't like... protecting her and she got killed? Frank is silent, grim.    Rachel looks stricken. RACHEL Oh, my god!    That's it, isn't it?
frank		Nobody's perfect. Rachel is taken aback. RACHEL Oh Frank, I'm sorry.
rachel		 I'm sorry... It's just that... It's so depressing. Now they're both laughing.
frank		 It is, isn't it. Suddenly a dish drops to the floor. Frank, still dancing, makes a smooth quick turn that puts his body between Rachel and the noise. His head turns to locate the source of the noise.
rachel		Don't worry, I'll protect you. They drift back into the music, Rachel singing, Frank watching.
frank		End. RACHEL Were you tough? FRANK No.    Fast. Rachel puts down her drink and moves toward a samurai sword that is mounted in its scabbard on the wall. She looks at it, peering closely. RACHEL You some kind of a samurai, too?
rachel		It seems to me a bodyguard must know little peace. Frank stands up so that the point of the sword is only about an inch from his chest. He reaches out over the blade to Rachel's neck and unties the silk scarf she is wearing there. One hand draws the scarf away. The other hand lingers for a moment on her neck, then lifts away. FRANK Watch this. He has raised the scarf over his head, in   the space between them. With two hands he spreads    it out and then lets it go. Slowly, billowing, the scarf    floats down over the blade and is cut in two. These    two pieces float slowly to the floor. Frank takes Rachel's wrist and moves the sword away to the side. They are both holding it as Rachel presses her body against Frank's and they begin to kiss.
rachel		I'm not confused. Frank finds his shoes. FRANK You pay me to protect you, that's what I do. Rachel sits up. RACHEL What? Have I done something wrong? FRANK No, nothing. RACHEL Then what is it? She lifts the sheet seductively and looks over the top of it. RACHEL Do you want me to beg? FRANK No, I want you to do without. She stops. RACHEL What's going on, Frank? FRANK I want to keep it straight in my head what job I'm doing.
rachel		And what is that exactly?    Making me feel like shit? FRANK No, I'm sorry. This is my fault.
rachel		Don't apologize for godsake. Just tell me what I did. I'm a big girl. FRANK You didn't do anything. It was me. I involved myself with my client.
nicki		 Thought you'd like to know. Everyone said she was a sure thing. Of course, you know all about that. She raises an eyebrow, gives him a look. Frank looks steadily back at her. She drops a small pile of mail beside the magazines... several letters and a small packet. She's embarrassed by Frank's gaze. NICKI I'm sorry. That was out of line. It's none of my business... Here's today's question marks for you. She turns and walks briskly back to the house. Frank watches her go, then looks slowly down to the pile. From across the pool, Fletcher watches silently, then pushes his boat out into the deep water.
frank		No.   I understand. Spector stiffens, then decides not to take this one on. SPECTOR Get your shit together and be out of here by noon. DEVANEY Frank stays. Spector looks round, sees that Devaney and Rachel have been listening. Rachel is silent. With a curt nod of his head, Spector gestures to the assistants to leave the room. Devaney weighs in.
devaney		With this high a profile, Rachel needs protection now more than ever. If he goes, you can forget Miami... SPECTOR She's signed the fucking contract, Bill. You want me to read it to you? Rachel is watching them both. DEVANEY Fuck the contract. If he goes, she's not singing a note. It's too dangerous. SPECTOR Oh. 'Fuck the contract.' Great. Why don't you let Rachel speak for herself? I think she has some say in this. RACHEL  Mr. Schiller calling on line one... Spector ignores her, still holding his look at Devaney, Rachel and Frank. SPECTOR Well, I guess this is democracy in action.
rachel		 Hang around, Farmer. We might need your vaunted expertise. She reaches forward and hits a button on Spector's desk, throwing the call onto a speaker.
rachel		 Rachel, congratulations, you must be thrilled at the...
rachel		 Ben. I hear you've got me in the annex next to the kitchen.
thuringer		Hi, Mark. MARK Hi. Frank smiles and nods to the nanny.
thuringer		 Theirs is the only suite on the floor. The two men reach the service elevator and the emergency exit door at the end of the hall. Frank opens the stair- way door and goes inside. Thuringer follows.
thuringer		As you asked, the rooms below have been kept vacant.
spector		Yes.   It is. RACHEL Quit bitching, Farmer. This is the part you do get paid for. Rachel sweeps out the door.    The camera crew hurries to keep up with her.
rachel		 I'm beginning to wonder about your judgement, Sy. Why do I have to keep paying my dues if I've already arrived?
spector		 ... I know you like to be reminded sometimes. Rachel looks away.   It's true.   He's good at his job.
frank		Portman. PORTMAN Buy you a drink? FRANK Orange juice. It's been awhile. You on the job? PORTMAN  No kidding? I'd call that a step up from the President. Probably sings better too. RACHEL Thank you.   Thank you.   You're so right. SCATTERED LAUGHS. RACHEL I want everyone to have a good time and drink as much of Ben Schiller's liquor as you like. Rachel descends into the crowd, laughing and blowing kisses. PORTMAN Handful. Frank's look says if you only knew the half of it.
portman		I heard you had to take someone out in New York. Frank remembers. PORTMAN I lost track of you after the Reagan thing. FRANK Yeah. PORTMAN It wasn't your fault, Farmer. You weren't even there.
portman		Greg Portman. RACHEL I take it you've met my bodyguard? PORTMAN We used to work together. RACHEL  'cause I'm the only one in the room who needs protection. She gives Frank a look and leads Portman into the crowd.
devaney		I don't know. I thought you were with her.
rachel		Tony and I went over to Bal Harbour. Did a little shopping. Tony comes back, a smile playing across his lips.    Frank watches near the entrance.
devaney		We were worried.  You know you're not supposed to do that. Frank and Rachel look at each other.
rachel		Farmer, you work here! Do you understand that? You work for me. DEVANEY Rachel. Frank turns and heads for the door.    Devaney looks at him anxiously. DEVANEY Farmer, where are you going? FRANK I'm gonna check the route.    As usual. He opens the front door. A uniformed guard is standing outside. Frank goes out and closes the door. RACHEL Did Fletcher call? Devaney, staring after Frank, shakes his head "no."
devaney		She got another call, while you were downstairs and she answered it herself. It was him, Frank. Same guy. FRANK  Save it, Devaney. The people who hire me don't have to be convinced to save their own lives. Frank reaches the sliding door that leads to the balcony. FRANK Call me when she's ready to go down. DEVANEY Farmer -- Frank goes out on the balcony and slides the door closed behind him.
frank		No Spector or Devaney or Tony. He looks at her, reading her face for any hesitation. There is none.
frank		If you cross me up this time, I'll kill you myself. Rachel smiles, weakly but with obvious relief.
herb		You must be very successful to need Frank. Rachel smiles and looks out of the window. RACHEL It's so quiet here. HERB Frank came back and stayed six months after the Reagan thing. Rachel's questioning look encourages Herb. HERB Frank wasn't there the day he was shot. He never got over that.  We buried Katherine that day. Rachel looks out again at Frank and Fletcher in the boat.
henry		Every time. FRANK Every time. In the distance, Rachel and Fletcher have just reached the house where Nicki scoops up Fletcher and spins him round and round in a circle. She hugs him close and kisses his hair.  After a few moments, Fletcher squirms free and runs to catch up with Rachel.
herb		... And I never hit him. Ever. To this day.  That's very unusual for my people. So what happens? When he's ten years old, he complains about it? Can you believe that? FRANK Oh, for Chrissake! I'm going to tell her about the time you stripped in court.
herb		His mother was the same way. Rachel smiles at him, thinking, then looks through at Frank in the kitchen, still peering out of the windows. Nicki watches Rachel.
rachel		Well, that's it for me, I'm going to bed. She rises. Frank follows her up the stairs.   Nicki watches them go.
frank		Why don't you change it? NICKI Is it that easy? Frank turns from the window to find Nicki blocking his exit. She moves close to him and kisses him, her hands on his shoulders. The kiss ends and they look at each other. FRANK You're a lovely woman. NICKI But you don't want me.
nicki		It's not so simple. FRANK Yes it is. You can walk out that fucking door anytime you want. I'll unlock it for you.
frank		Where's Fletcher? Henry appears at the porch of the house, carrying a fishing rod as he comes out. At that instant, the sound of the OUTBOARD MOTOR CRACKLES through the air. Frank's head snaps toward the boathouse. Henry, in the distance, looks quickly at the boathouse, then to Frank.
henry		 Frank! I haven't... But Frank is already moving, leaping from the porch and starting to run flat out toward the boathouse and dock. Rachel turns to look. The skiff appears out of the boathouse, Fletcher at the motor, the boat's lone occupant. The boat moves slowly away from the boathouse, parallel to the dock. Frank is running toward the water with everything he's got, his face contorted. The sound of the OUTBOARD drowns out his voice as he yells. FRANK Fletcher!   Fletcher! IN BOAT Fletcher, intent on his piloting, neither hears nor sees Frank running down the lawn behind him. The boat is approaching the end of the dock. DOCK Frank finally makes it to the dock and continues to sprint after the boat. His weight rattles the boards as he runs. IN BOAT Fletcher passes the end of the dock and gives the throttle a little twist. DOCK
dock		Henry and Rachel are already    at the end of the dock. Nicki and Herb are running toward    it. Rachel is livid, hysterical. Henry peers out at the boat,    which continues to bounce innocently across the water,    defining a broad curve. RACHEL Fletcher, baby. Are you all right? Baby. Fletcher, spluttering, is handed up to Rachel by Frank. Rachel hugs Fletcher to her. Herb bends down to check he's breathing properly, wrapping the boy in his jacket. HERB He's all right. Henry helps Frank up out of the water.    Frank sits on the end of the dock, breathing hard. RACHEL What are you doing? You out of your mind? You're crazy!  You could have drowned him! Frank and Henry look out toward the boat which has come to a stop out in the middle of the lake. FRANK I'm sorry.   I got careless. Henry looks at Frank.    He feels terrible about not checking the boat. HENRY Frank, I'm sorry. I should have...
herb		It's okay, Henry. Herb puts his hand on Fletcher's head. HERB You all right now, son?
nicki		 I think this is no maniac.   He knows what he's doing. There is a long, long silence.   Nicki continues crying. Finally -- NICKI You're right. He does. FRANK Tell me about it. She doesn't reply. FRANK Who is it, Nicki? NICKI He almost got Fletcher today... FRANK How do we stop him? NICKI ...my darling Fletcher... FRANK Who is it? NICKI
nicki		 He doesn't even know who hired him. He doesn't know who I am and I don't know who he is. FRANK How'd you do it?
nicki		 Stay with Rachel! Henry's head appears round the doorway of Herb's room. 
fletcher		Do you feel scared, Frank? FRANK Yeah, Fletcher, I do.
fletcher		What are you afraid of? FRANK I think you should try to go back to sleep now, pal. FLETCHER Tell me, Frank, please. Is it the man who killed Nicki? Are you afraid of him? Finally, Frank turns and looks at Fletcher.    Frank is pretty far gone. He shakes his head "no."     He realizes that that kind of fear had never occurred to   him, and recognizing that fact sets him back into his   thoughts. FLETCHER Then what?    What are you afraid of? Frank doesn't have the will to resist anymore.    He lets his hand drop away from Fletcher. FRANK I'm afraid... of not being there... Fletcher stares at him, uncomprehending. FRANK It's late. Do you want me to take you back to your room? Fletcher shakes his head "no," just barely.    Then he disappears.
frank		It's possible. RACHEL The Oscars?
frank		Maybe. Rachel takes this philosophically.     She tugs at the grass, thinking. RACHEL When I was back in Squirrel Hill, I started betting my friends fifty bucks each that someday I'd win an Oscar. You can understand how important it is that they see me up there if I win. She looks at him and smiles. RACHEL If everyone of those pikers comes through, it could add up to a lot of money. FRANK I think it's very dangerous. RACHEL I know. But I can't stay up here on my hill forever. They are silent for awhile.     Rachel lies back on the grass, stares at the sky. RACHEL I didn't get to this place in my life by doing the smart thing every time.  I'll bet you have plenty. I'll bet you do. Nobody gets really good without it. And you're good. I know that. She sits up beside him.
rachel		I don't know why all this has happened to me...  So... I'm going to go see if I win an Oscar. And I won't worry about it at all. Because I've got you to protect me. Frank almost smiles. FRANK That's right. He looks at her a long time, then takes her in his arms. He kisses her and lays her down. His body moves over hers. Like a bodyguard, protecting her from the night.  188   EXT. THE PANTAGES THEATRE - NIGHT                           188 The chaos and razamatazz of Oscar night.   Crowds, limos, cameras, searchlights...  189   INT. RACHEL'S LIMO - FRONT OF THE PANTAGES - NIGHT          189 The limo is waiting in a line of limos to reach the red- carpeted entrance to The Pantages Theatre. Frank and Tony sit in front with Henry. In the back a spectacularly-gowned Rachel sits flanked by Devaney and Spector, both of whom, like Frank, are wearing tuxedos.     Up ahead, they can all see the hubbub at the entrance: TV cameras, lights, photographers, arriving guests, two bleachers full of fans. The glare from the arc lights is almost blinding. DEVANEY We'll go straight back to the Green Room. Right, Frank? Frank nods. DEVANEY Got that, Tony? 
frank		Tony knows what he's doing. Tony looks at Frank, surprised and not a little pleased with the unexpected support.
rachel		I wish you boys would relax a little. Nothing bad's gonna happen out there, alright?  Unless I lose the fucking award. She looks around at the men, all are tense.
rachel		Jesus, what a crew. Rachel leans forward and flips down the mirror on the panel in front of her and checks her appearance. The limo moves up. RACHEL Screw it. I'm through worrying. When your number's up, it's up. Right, Farmer? The limo is almost at the red carpet.   Frank slips out the front door of the moving limo.
clive		I understand it's my great honor to escort you onstage. RACHEL That's right, Clive. And I don't like it one bit that you look skinnier than me.
tony		 You can't use that thing back here. The  breakthrough's killing our radio mikes... We'll have to disconnect you. Reluctantly, Frank disconnects his earpiece.
clive		The envelope. Rachel, shall I do the honors? INTERCUT -- RACHEL'S POV - CLIVE'S HANDS
rachel		Christ, what an idiot I am. Jesus. What the hell's the matter with me? Frank moves up closer, and exchanges looks with Tony, who is confused by Rachel's behavior. Rachel turns toward Frank and, in so doing, brings the man comforting her around to face Frank. It is Reardon. RACHEL Farmer, you've made me a raving lunatic. Frank barely hears Rachel, so struck is he   by Reardon's presence. Frank looks around them quickly    for Portman. Rachel looks at Frank with irritation and   turns back toward the Green Room. A production aide    signals Reardon. REARDON  Never heard of him. Reardon walks out on stage. Frank is left standing alone. All the weariness comes back, all his senses start to hum. Frank looks around, then moves off toward the Green Room.
frank's face		grim.   He looks past the curtain to Rachel. FRANK'S POV - AUDITORIUM Deafening applause in the main auditorium. A stunned Rachel stands. Devaney and Spector kiss her. People nearby reach out to touch her. Rachel walks along her row. The orchestra plays "I Have Nothing."
aisle		Rachel walks down the aisle toward the side steps. Tears in her eyes. Thunderous applause. Security guards in the side aisles look around in all directions. They can't see anything. FRANK'S POV TIGHT ON Portman, now almost completely obscured behind the members of the audience, as more and more of them stand to applaud Rachel. PORTMAN'S POV ALONG THE SIDE OF THE CAMERA. Rachel keeps appearing and disappearing behind the heads of the audience. FRANK IN THE WINGS Desperate to get a clear shot at Portman but unable to fire without hitting a bystander. FROM STAGE RIGHT WINGS - FRANK'S POV OF RACHEL as she  approaches the podium, steadily, controlling herself  as she mounts the steps. The outline of her body becomes  difficult to see against the glare of the foot- lights  and the lights at the side of the auditorium. FRANK'S FACE His eyes squint against the dazzle. ON STAGE - PODIUM Rachel approaches Winston.   The applause and music is
tony		Under control. But it won't be the same... ya mutt. Tony fakes a glancing blow to Frank's chin. Over by the plane, Fletcher spots Frank and tugs at Rachel's dress, till she turns to look. Fletcher runs up to Frank and hugs him around the knees. Rachel approaches and Tony moves back toward the plane. Devaney waves in Frank's direction, tapping his watch to indicate they are late. Frank waves and smiles. Rachel's surprised to see Frank, but clearly happy. Fletcher is ecstatic. RACHEL You shouldn't be here. Frank laughs.    There is a pause. RACHEL So, you're quitting show business? FRANK Yeah. RACHEL Too bad. You had talent.      What are you going to do? FRANK I thought I might hole up with my dad.  That's the idea. Fletcher grins.   Rachel starts to cry. FRANK So, how's the new guy? RACHEL He's got white hair, Frank. 
frank		He's very good. RACHEL Why'd you have to get me an old man? FRANK I don't trust you. RACHEL Yeah... well, give me a kiss and let's get this over with.  Frank gives her an awkward hug.   They kiss. FRANK 'Bye Rachel. Rachel turns quickly. She almost runs up the boarding ladder. Frank remains watching her. Fletcher looks back over his shoulder as they disappear into the plane.  222   INT. PLANE - DAY                                            222 Rachel takes a seat beside Fletcher.   Devaney leans over the aisle. DEVANEY That wasn't so bad.  You okay? Rachel is in her own world. Devaney passes the word to get moving. The ENGINES WARM UP. Rachel turns and sees Frank still standing there looking at her. 223   INT. COCKPIT - DAY                                          223 The pilot's hand pushes forward on the throttle. 224   EXT. PLANE - DAY                                            224 The nosewheel starts to taxi.    The plane moves forward. 225   INT. PLANE - DAY                                            225 Rachel's face at the window. RACHEL Wait...  226   EXT. TARMAC - DAY                                           226 
rachel		I didn't really believe it then. Nobody means what they say. But you did, Frank. You did it. You laid it all on the line for me. Frank tries to speak, she puts her hands to his lips. RACHEL Don't wreck this for me. I don't want to hear any bullshit about you just doing your job. You did more than save my life, Frank. You showed me a way to be. And I love you for it.  I won't be forgetting you either. She presses something into Frank's hand. RACHEL Here... I want you to keep this. If you ever need me, you just put this on and no matter where you are I will find you.  I promise. She gives him a quick kiss and walks back toward the plane, her eyes holding Frank's. Frank opens his palm to reveal the little enamel cross. ON FRANK as the engines roar and the plane turns to taxi out.
rachel		Thank you... Thank you... Now I want to sing you an old song, but it's a new favorite. As the music begins, Rachel stands alone in front of the band, mike in hand.
rachel		You know, this song used to make me feel sad... But it doesn't anymore. Rachel pauses.   The audience is still. RACHEL Now it just reminds me of someone very special... This is for him. Rachel begins to sing the song 'WHAT BECOMES OF THE BROKEN HEARTED' - slow and sweet. It's the song she and Frank danced to.    As a VERSE TRAILS OFF --
****Dialogues from script :Bones.txt****

shotgun		"Thou shalt not bring a dog into the house of the Lord thy God, for they are an abomination."  Deuteronomy.
palmer		Great.  Gun shots.
jason		Just a backfire.
palmer		Like you'd know.  Face it.  We're lost.
jason		Take a left, no, I mean a right.  Okay, stop for a second.
stank		 Back here.  At the end of the block.
jason		You got the shit?
stank		 Yeah, but you got to come the rest of the way on foot.  Leave your car and walk over here.
jason		Let me see it.
stank		Let me see it.
jason		 Where is it?
stank		I can't carry it in my pocket, man.  And I can't go get it for you cause you might be a cop.  You gonna have to pick it up yourself.
jason		Fuck it.  Alright.
palmer		Is it too late for me to officially register my growing certainty that this is an extremely bad idea?
jason		Easy as pie.  And twice as tasty.
palmer		Someone's screwing with the car!
shotgun		Yo.  You two, get the hell away from there!
palmer		Let's get the hell outta here.
jason		Oh fuck, c'mon...
older cop		...not going in there.  Waste o' time.
younger cop		I saw 'em go in.
lupovich		Let's get the hell outta here.
palmer		Gimme some light.
palmer		 Damn, bro.  That was close!
shotgun		"For outside are dogs and sorcerers..."
bones		Don't spend it all in one place.  Spread it around.  And shop local.
maurice		Goodness gracious grande bolas del fuego!
patrick		Well, the bad news is we only made 25 bucks each.
tia		How could that be?  The box was packed!
patrick		Moe's terms.
maurice		We practically paying him for the privilege of playing his club.
bill		So what the hell's the good news?
patrick		I just accelerated my top secret long term plan for our world domination.
maurice		Sqweeep.  We innerup this programme to bring you this special news bulletin --  "Aliens from Reticula 3 have hijacked Patrick Peet and injected moly headcheese into his skull filling his entire brain cavity with cosmic slop..."
patrick		I was planning on waiting until I got the place cleaned out, but -- like the man says, carpe diem.
tia		Illibent?  Who's club is that?
patrick		Ours!
bill		What're ya talkin' about, OURS?
bill		Looks like a damn graveyard round here.
patrick		I'm telling you, this neighborhood is coming back.
maurice		Yeah.  But just where the hell has it been?
bill		Damn.  That is the ugliest building I have ever seen.
patrick		Naw.  I think it's... I dunno.  Something about it just buzzes me.
maurice		That would be the after effects of that Reticular inseminoid encounter you had.
patrick		Welcome to the Ill Zone.
tia		Damn it's cold in here!
bill		It's eighty degrees outside.  And it's gotta be barely fifty in here.
maurice		And damp, too.  Let's not forget damp.
patrick		Whattaya think?  Can you picture it? Over there the bar, and in here -- the dance floor.
bill		Possible...maybe...could be.
patrick		I got a great deal on it.  They couldn't give this place away.  Just dead meat stanking up their books for twenty years.
maurice		Jimmy Bones?
patrick		Yeah, you heard of him?
maurice		You haven't?
patrick		Not that I remember.
maurice		He was a local legend back in the '70's. There was a song, Stagolee kinda deal: "This is the ballad of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stone..."
patrick		I was born near here.  My dad's from here.  He never mentioned it.
bill		Bones!  How baddass is zat?  This is the place for us.  Patrick, you get platinum props, man.  Platinum.
maurice		Yeah, in the land of the blind the one eye'd are king.
bill		What's your problem with Crippled Dick?
maurice		Look around, this place is a dump!  Naw, it'd have to work to be a dump.
patrick		You gotta use your imagination.
maurice		"This is Patrick..."  "...And this is Patrick on crack." Imagination, my butt.  Even the space cowboy can't...
patrick		 Why don't y'all check out the rest?  I'm going downstairs and see if I can get the furnace fired up.  Warm this place up, you'll see.  It has serious potential.
maurice		Potential toxic dump site.
bill		Are you nuts?
maurice		The man said just to use my imagination.  Let's see...yeah, I get it.  Potential. I can see it now.  The first major urban theme park.  Village Ghetto land. Kinda like Legoland, but made entirely from broken glass, hypodermic needles and crack vials.  Totally E-ticket.
bill		Keep smokin', fool.
hollow echoes		It ain't eh money.  It's the big fat floating what if...
bill		What did you say?
maurice		I didn't say nothing.
hollow echoes		Take him down to the storm clear.  Bury him.
bill		You didn't hear that?  "Take him... " Something.  "Bury him" or...
maurice		Take who where?  What you smokin'?
patrick		Go on old pipes, groan all you like. Just please don't burst.  That I can't afford.
hollow echoes		Go on.  It won't kill you.
bill		You had to hear tha...
hollow echoes		I ain't gonna be the only one with this nigger's blood on my hands...
bill		What the f--?
maurice		'S up?
bill		Nothing.  Contact paranoia.  Must be buggin' from hanging with you.
tia		How'd you get locked in here?  And for how long?  Poor baby...
bill		You want us to move in here?
patrick		That's the only way we'll get the place fixed up in time.
maurice		Yeah right, and which ever of us is still alive at the end of the week inherits all Vincent Price's cash.
patrick		Look, you guys want to play college radio, high school reunions, and some fool's club once a week for the rest of your lives, that's cool.  But I think we can do better.
bill		You soundin' like the old man now.
patrick		I believe in you guys.  You are the real shit.  And you know it.  Now I'm putting everything I got into this cuz I think we can make it happen, but you gotta put a little in too.  Now all I"m asking is that everybody do their part.  We'll move some shit in, and take shifts, or all crash together here --
bill		Pat's right.  It'll be fun.
maurice		Yeah, fine.  But Mars Needs Women.  If I gotta sleep in a spookhouse, surround me with chicks who are more scared than me. Speaking of which...
bill		 Tia ain't a chick.  She's family.  And don't forget it.
patrick		Let's get going.  Go home, pick up what we need, then crash here.
tia		Look who I found.
maurice		Damn, that's the nastiest dog I ever seen.  Nothin' but skin and bones.
tia		Yeah, call his skinny ass "Bones."
shotgun		Hey, watcha doing with that dog?
bill		He yours, sir?
shotgun		Hell no!
bill		Then what do you care?
shotgun		Take my advice.  And shoot that dog.  Or let me.
bill		Alright.  Yes sir.  Anything you say.
pearl		Don't feed that dog.
bill		You people really don't like dogs.
pearl		Some holes can't be filled.  Some hungers can't be satisfied.
maurice		 And some people need their medication tweaked.
pearl		I'm not joking boy.  Don't feed it. It'll only make it hungrier.
maurice		Need any help with those bags, Ma'am?
pearl		No thanks.
patrick		no really, let us help.  We're new in the neighborhood, gonna be neighbors.
cinnabar		You moved into this block?
maurice		Not really to live, just to play.
pearl		That building?
maurice		Gonna be le hot shit.  Pardon my Francais.  Dance club.  The Resurrection Brothers play there.  Heard of them?
pearl		Should I?
cinnabar		Are they on the radio?
patrick		Naw.  But they will be.  They're the best.
cinnabar		How do you know?
patrick		I manage them.
pearl		And you bought the building?
patrick		I was born near here.  But after my mother died, my dad moved.  I grew up out in Rossmore Park.
pearl		You're pretty black to be growing up in Rossmore Park.
cinnabar		Guess it's not Rossmore Park.  Thanks for the help.
patrick		Anytime.  Be seeing you.
maurice		Yeah, well if she got psychic powers, how come she's working here on Desolation Row?
stank		Say Eddie.
mack		Goddamnit!  How many times I told you --
stank		We got a gift for you, Eddie.  Fresh new BMW.
mack		That you stole off those white boys was down here last night?  Are you crazy? Everybody from hell to breakfast heard that screamin' on Blackstone last night!
stank		But --
mack		How many times I told you, no psycho shit.  There gonna be psycho shit, I'm the one that does it.
weaze		We didn't do nothing, Eddie.
mack		You gon tell me you didn't ginsu those punks and steal their ride?
weaze		That's all we did, steal their ride.
mack		Get that car the hell away from here, now!  I spend a lot of money to keep the cops cool.  But this is the kinda shit that pisses everybody off.
stank		We just thought...
mack		No more thoughts from your asses.  Or I will burn your asses and snort the ashes. Hear me?
guard		Okay, go on ahead.
bill		I been living here my whole life, and that hillbilly still has to check me out each time.
maurice		Hey, it's his job.  Keeping indesirables outta the hood.
patrick		Hey, Dad.
jeremiah		Not only do I have to feed the three mouths I got, and that bottomless pit they call Maurice, I gotta feed this stray, too?
tia		Shhh, Bones.  It's not nice to bite the hand that feeds you.
jeremiah		What did you call that dog?
nancy		 Just what are you feeding him?  I didn't know we had dog food.
tia		We don't.  I used that meat you had in the bowl.
nancy		Tia, that was the prime rib I was marinating for dinner.
bones		Hold up S-G.  Give him a toot.
jeremiah		'Sup Jimmy B. Shotgun.  Get back on the curb!  Now!
bones		Go easy on Jay Bird.  I can remember when we was his age...
jeremiah		It's all arranged for tonight.  Eddie Mack's gonna be there.  And Offisa Korruptsky, too.
bones		They get about twelve and a half minutes. Tops.
jeremiah		Trust me, Jimmy, there's big money behind this.  Not just big.  BIG.  Like big business big.  Big corporation big.  Big government big.  Our little acre alone'll net hundreds a thousands.  Nothing but net.
bones		Nothing but net?  Could be a swish.  Or a muthafucking air ball.
jeremiah		One simple word, three little letters. Yes.  That's all it's gonna take and we could move out of this dump, get the real deal.  Big houses, legit business...
bones		That's your dream, Homes.  Not mine.  I don't want to leave this street.  Ever. The status quo is totally cool with me.
pearl		Maybe I oughtta get there a little early. For good luck.
bones		Don't need luck tonight.  I'm just letting 'em have their say before I say no.
pearl		 Let me see your hand.
bones		All that shinin' and "reader and adviser" mess.  That was your mama's bag.  I don't know about the readin' but you both can sure 'nuff advise.
pearl		 My mama's bag and my granma's bag, and a long line of mamas before her.
bones		Sounds like mama needs a brand new bag.
pearl		Such fine hands.  You shoulda been a musician.  You got the fingers.
bones		Must be my clothes line.  No?  How bout my phone line?
pearl		No baby.  I'm serious.  Cancel that meeting.  I got more fruit that needs checking.  Come home with me now.
bones		Don't you worry about a thing.  This hand's gonna be stroking the back of your neck tonight.
jeremiah		 'Cause you got all the status.  And I got nothing but quo...
lupovich		 Wait here.  And don't touch my fucking sandwich.
lupovich		Not your style.  Is it Eddie?  Killing off your customers?
mack		I ain't killed nobody.  Shall I rack 'em?  Play a game, Lupe?
lupovich		No time for eightball.  I got your tip.
mack		You was just doing your job.
lupovich		Last thing you need's for me to start doing my fucking job.
patrick		When we got a line of hundred paying guests and another couple hundred inside dancing, that's when I'll tell him.  And I can't wait to see the look on his face.
patrick		And how do you think crack got into the ghetto?  By magic?  Who flew it in?  Like the man said "we don't own that many planes."
jeremiah		Don't poison your mind with that ghetto paranoia.  That's all just ways of people justifying their own failure.
bill		Dad, the man has been lying to us for a hundred years.  I mean, where is my forty acres and a mule?
jeremiah		You wouldn't know a mule if it bit you in the ass. And personally, I don't need a mule.  I got a Lexus.  And nobody gave it to me --
tv anchor		 There's a lead tonight in the strange disappearance of those two State College fraternity brothers.  There car, a 1999 BMW, was found abandoned this afternoon in an inner-city neighborhood.
jeremiah		What the hell do you want?
lupovich		Just a visit with my old pal, Jay-bird.
jeremiah		Don't call me that.
lupovich		You certainly traded up.  ...the trophy wife.  Nice lookin'.
jeremiah		Keep your hands to yourself, willya?
lupovich		I been watching you.  You done good. Invested wisely.  Respectable businessman now.  Just like you always wanted.
jeremiah		And you?  Still a pig.  Just a much fatter one.
lupovich		No reason to get nasty.  Yeah, I've stayed in the organization.  But then again I never got the percentage you did.
jeremiah		Or you didn't know what to do with it.
lupovich		Maybe so.  Maybe so.  But that ain't why I came to see you.  You sold the building.
jeremiah		What building?
lupovich		Don't shit a shitter.  Our building. What did you call it?  His 'tomb'?  We had an agreement.  You were supposed to sit on it.  Not sell it --
jeremiah		I didn't sell it.
lupovich		Well, somebody bought it.  That's what I heard.
jeremiah		Claire?  Could you come in here.
jeremiah		To who?
cla		I only met with the broker.  The structure was listed almost worthless and had never even had a bid, I thought you'd be pleased to see it sold to someone who wants to improve the neighborhood. Anything wrong?
jeremiah		No, of course not.  Good work.  Thanks a lot.
lupovich		That's a Bozo no-no.  Jay-bird.
jeremiah		Look, even if anyone found anything there, it's twenty years ago.  They could never connect it to us.
lupovich		You better hope not.  Cause it's like they say, four can keep a secret, if three are dead.
jeremiah		That's it.  Get out.  Now!
bill		Hey, that's...
jeremiah		That's what?
bill		That's some terrible shit.
jeremiah		Clean your mouth, or I will.  Those boys had no business messing down there.  Go places you're not meant to be -- that's what you get.
bill		But that's your old hood, Pops.
jeremiah		Yeah, and it took some doing to get out of there.  Just be glad I did and you can start life from here instead of down there.
patrick		But maybe we're the ones who should be down there.  Doing something.  Making it better.
jeremiah		Can't be done.  That place already died and gone to hell.
patrick		Careful.  That's bad luck.
cinnabar		That place is already bad luck.
patrick		Why?
cinnabar		No.  It goes way back.  Or so my Momma says.
patrick		What else does she say?
cinnabar		Nothing.  You'd think she was crazy.  And she is a lot of things, not all of them nice, but crazy Momma's not.
patrick		Way I figure, everything our parents tell us is part true and part total B.S.  And our whole job is figuring out for ourselves which is which.
cinnabar		My momma says every house is two houses. Every street, two streets.  There's a whole city, a whole world, kinda beside, on top, just below this one.  The city of the dead.
patrick		Like right now, there's actually like hordes of dead people shambling around us?  Fingers rotting off?
cinnabar		Maybe.  But there's an invisible wall, a fabric that kinda keeps things separate.
patrick		Lucky thing.
cinnabar		Yeah.  But when something bad happens, something really bad -- the wall breaks. The fabric tears.
patrick		The dead get out?
cinnabar		Or the living fall in.  Who knows.
patrick		And you believe her?
cinnabar		If I did, I wouldn't come within fifty yards of your door.
maurice		You ever hear of Jimmy Bones, sir?
shotgun		What business is it of yours?
maurice		Just wondered.  We heard he used to live in our building.
bill		Is it true?
shotgun		Yeah.  He lived there.  And died there, too.
bill		Died there?  How?
shotgun		How the hell should I know?
maurice		What was he like?
shotgun		Bones?  He was something.  He could be cold as ice or warm as blood.  But he never turned his back for a brother.
bill		Yeah?
shotgun		Take my advice.  Get the hell out of there.  It's a bad place.  Always has been.
old woman		...and every Tuesday, he'd roll by in his car and drive me with all my laundry to the laundromat so I wouldn't have to carry the clothes.
wheelchair man		Jimmy Bones?  Yeah, I knew that motherfucker.  People make out like he was some kinda damn Robin Hood. Bullshit.  I saw him cut some muhfucker's tongue once with that razor of his...dropped it right into that jar of dill pickles they used to have on the counter in the bar.
wino		When I was a kid he used to slip twenties into my pocket so I could buy toys and shit.  Bones was awrright.  He was solid.  And then one day, he just wasn't around no more.  Don't pay to ask too many questions 'round here.
bill		Tia?  Patrick?  That you?
patrick		Spooked?
bill		No.  Well, yeah.  Maybe just a little.
patrick		Yeah, there is a strange vibe here.
bill		Where's the others?
patrick		Maurice left.  Tia's taking a bath.
patrick		...we just been in the damn suburbs too long.
tia		There wasn't any draft.  That window was closed.
patrick		We're all tired.  Everybody makes mistakes.  Tomorrow in the daylight, everything's gonna look different.
patrick		I thought you were bringing the Colonel?
maurice		The Gangster of Love don't eat no fried chicken.
patrick		Why not?  He eats everything else.
maurice		Just what army do you think the Colonel was in?  Everybody knows the whole chicken distribution network is owned by the Klan.  "Special recipe".  I'm telling you.  There's something in the batter. Say it makes a black man sterile.
maurice		Word.  I saw it on Sixty Minutes.
patrick		Maurice, even if it was true, what are you worried about?  Last time I checked, you weren't black.  I'm not sure what the hell you are.  But I know you aren't a black man.
maurice		I am the future.  I am all colors.  All races.  All creeds.  I am the melting pot.  I am the tossed salad.  I am post racial.
patrick		Post-toasted's more like it.
pearl		Welcome, brother.  Welcome, sisters. Make yourselves comfortable around the circle.  We'll begin in a minute.
pearl		Aren't you going to join us?
cinnabar		I have to finish this for class.
pearl		You got a vision, girl.  Just like I got. Just like my momma had.  And the good Lord didn't give you that vision just for painting pretty pictures.  That's just wasted time.
cinnabar		You mean as opposed to your life?
pearl		I don't want you meeting around that house.  You stay away from those kids. And away from that dog.
cinnabar		They seemed alright.  Bring a little life to that old building.
pearl		Nothing but a wide world o' pain locked in there.
cinnabar		Have you ever been inside?
pearl		Maybe once upon a time.  But that was long ago.  Back before... before it became what it is.
cinnabar		And what's that?
pearl		Just a bad place.  And the doorway to worse.
cinnabar		Just thought I'd see if you needed any help.
tia		Good.  We do need help.  First you can help us eat lunch.
tia		Watcha looking at, poochie?
cinnabar		I hate it when dogs do that.  Like they're looking right out of the world.
patrick		Must be something seeping through.  From the floor.
tia		Yeah.  It's.  Throbbing.
bill		Like a heartbeat.
maurice		"Like a heartbeat/Like a love beat." Listen to the Di Franco twins there. Just the plumbing or something, fool.
patrick		Maybe there's a pipe underneath the floor.  It leaked and stained.
maurice		Sounds like we got the Invisible Scratch Piklz hiding in our pipes.
patrick		I think these bring the water down from the bathroom.  Into this...
tia		What is that?
maurice		 Ugh.  Muchos moscos, man.  This is too much.
bill		Just some flies.
maurice		Some flies?  I think this qualifies as way more than "some."
cinnabar		What a smell.
maurice		Hey, what you expect?  Where there's smoke there's fire.  And where there's flies, there's shit.
bill		Maurice, man, shut the fuck up.
patrick		Yeah, well, Maurice is right.  It's gonna take more work than I thought.  But we can still do it.  We'll lay a real floor in here.  Put damping on the walls. Totally controlled sound.  Be perfect. No one could hear shit up on the street.
maurice		Yeah, perfect.  Really excellent.  We can make our first record where no one can hear us scream.  Be afraid.
cinnabar		Oh god...
bill		Hello.  Who're you?
maurice		Boys and girls, Moms and Dads.  Children of all ages, I'd like you to meet... Jimmy Bones.
bill		What the hell you talking about?
maurice		 "This is the story of Jimmy Bones/Black as night and hard as stones/Gold plated deuce, like the King of Siam/Got his switchblade loose, and a diamond on his hand..." There's the switchblade and there's the diamond.  Don't know where the deuce is parked.
bill		You think that's really him?
maurice		Damn.  It's so...fresh.
tia		Boy, put that thing down.  You can't take that.  Might be evidence.
patrick		Evidence of what?
tia		Somehow I don't think he stabbed himself in the chest, then buried himself too.
patrick		Get your damn dog, girl!
tia		What we have to do is call the police.
maurice		Right.  Call the police.  We'll have no problem getting our permits then.
tia		We can't just leave it here.
patrick		Yeah, we can.  Least till after this weekend.  He ain't going nowhere.  We'll deal with it then.
bill		Whatever, let's just get the hellout of here.
cinnabar		What?  Oh yeah.  Coming.
maurice		Oh fuck.
tia		Picky mutt.
cinnabar		She doesn't want me here.  With you.  In this house.
patrick		Believe me, my old man'd rupture his spleen if he knew we was down here.  All he talks about is the medal he deserves for building us a life as far from this 'hood as possible.
cinnabar		He probably thinks he's saving you from something.  I'm sure that's what my mother thinks.
patrick		I'm sure I can make your mother like me. But then do I gotta worry 'bout your father?
cinnabar		I don't know anything about my father.  I never met him.  Momma won't talk about him, either.
pearl		We should begin with a hymn.
cinnabar		I can't.  Not yet.
patrick		It's alright.  If you want to go home...
cinnabar		No, I want to stay with you guys.  But I can't.  I mean I'm not ready.
patrick		Don't worry about it.  I'll stay with the boys.
pearl		The spirit world is all around us right this minute.  And the departed are pressing in around us.
cinnabar		 It's okay, just don't get funny on me. It's warmer this way.
pearl		Someone's with us.  Who's joined the circle?
old man		Lordy...what's that smell?
old woman		Look.  The flowers.
pearl		Knock once for yes.  And twice for no. Is there someone who wishes to send a message?
cinnabar		 Cut it out.
cinnabar		Patrick!  Stop!!
patrick		What's wrong?
bill		Why don't you hang on and I'll see if she's here.
pearl		I know damn well she's there.
pearl		You might as well just dig down six feet of muddy earth and sleep in your own grave than stay another night in that house.
bill		You sure got a way with women, bro.  What happened up there?
patrick		Damned if I know.
tia		Yes!  We're in business.
jeremiah		Where are we going?  You know I hate surprises.
patrick		A little business move I made.  On my own.  I think you're gonna approve.
jeremiah		What are we doing down here?
patrick		Like you always said, Pop, look for the undervalued.
patrick		I bet you didn't even know your bank owned the place.  I did it through a broker so you wouldn't know it was me. I couldn't wait to see your face when I fixed it up.
jeremiah		Is this some kind of sick joke?
patrick		I thought you'd be psyched.  Just trying to do what you did.  Take nothing and make something out of it.
jeremiah		No one'll ever come here.  Shut it down. Don't worry, the bank'll buy it back. I'll take care of it.
patrick		You'll take care of it?  Not this time. No way.  I bought it fair and square. And we open tonight.
jeremiah		Bullshit!  Bullshit!!  You're selling it back!  That's an order!
clubber		Man, I think we're lost.  You guys know where Illibent is?
bones		Pull over.  I'll walk the rest.
pearl		I don't know whether to chill you and serve with cottage cheese, or rip you open and eat you right here.
bones		Listen, Baby, I gotta TCB this evening. So come over 'bout eight.  We should be finished by then.
jeremiah		Hey Jimmy, you know Eddie Mack, don't you?
bones		We met.
mack		Yeah, we used to do the after-school b ball at Kenwood.  What it is?
bones		What it will be.
jeremiah		And Officer Lupovich.
mack		You got a nice crib here.
bones		I do alright.  Everybody's happy.
mack		But things change.  You gotta think ahead.
lupovich		They got lotteries all over now, Bonesy. Coming here too, maybe next year.
jeremiah		Half our old customers are gonna be getting their people to cross state lines to pick up lotto tickets.
mack		Besides, there's more money to be made in the gin than the juice.  What do anybody want with numbers anyway?
bones		What else?  Money.
mack		It ain't the money - it's the high.  The big fat floating 'what if?'  And it's way more profitable.  Nobody ever wins.  So you never have to pay out.
bones		But a two dollar bet is cheaper than a twenty-dollar bag.
mack		Yeah, but I ain't talking horse.  I'm talking about a five-dollar kick in the head that's a quick ticket to heaven. And the fools keep coming back for more.
bones		Those 'fools' are my people.
mack		Ain't no big thang.  It's just a po' man's free base.  Here, check it out.
bones		I ain't interested.  And if you gonna sell it, don't sell it round here.
mack		Just try it.
bones		I said, no thanks.
mack		Go on.  It won't kill you.
shotgun		Back off, Huggybear...
mack		It's like this, Jimmy.  There's a wave coming.  A big ass Krakatoa, East of Java wave.  And either you gonna be on top of the wave up there in chocolate heaven, or you gonna be buried 'neath the muddy undertow.
bones		That's cool.  Totally wide-screen sci-fi. Forward thinking.  I respect that.  But that ain't my life.  I'm here and now. Comfortable as a bed bug on a cold night in a warm nappy dugout.  I'm maintaining. That's what it's about for me.  And your twelve and a half-minutes is up.
mack		Fine.  Let's go, Loopy-Lou.  Jimmy ain't into it.  Gonna skip the money train and take the bus.  His loss.
jeremiah		Everybody just be cool.  Jimmy, man, I think you oughtta hear the deal.
bones		I don't need to hear the deal.  I don't need any partners.  I don't need new product.  And I sure as hell don't need this motherfucker's 'mattie in my face.
mack		Just try it, Jimmy.  That's all...
lupovich		You heard the man.  Try it.
mack		Ain't worth it, Blood.  Just drop it. And kick it here.
lupovich		Tell her to stop screaming.
mack		What it is?  What it will be, muthafucka.
lupovich		Now you.
jeremiah		No way man...
lupovich		You cut him, or I shoot you.  Make your choice.
bones		Jay bird...help me...like brothers.
jeremiah		Sorry, my brother.
bones		Since we was just grasshoppers...
jeremiah		You always told me, it's a dog eat dog world.
lupovich		Now you, girlie.
pearl		I won't.
lupovich		Same deal all around.  Or die with him.
pearl		I can't.  I won't.  Go ahead.  Shoot me. I'll be better off.
jeremiah		Too risky to take him outside.  Take him down to the storm cellar and bury him. And get rid of this too.  Let this whole damn building be his tomb.
patrick		Be cool.  Everybody's gonna get in.
pearl		...I've seen things.  In there.  Last night.  You did too.  Don't tell me you didn't.  You were crying like a baby.
cinnabar		You said the vision, the images.  They're just that.  Just pictures.  They can't hurt you.  That's what you always said.
pearl		I lied.
cinnabar		All the more reason I should be here.
pearl		Please.  It's for your own good.
cinnabar		You said bad things hurt places.  So maybe good things heal them.  Good things are happening here.  Maybe for the first time ever.  And maybe that's all it takes.
pearl		I hope so, child.  I really hope so.
maurice		The gangsta of love is in the house.
maurice		Ill Bill is in the house...house...house ... house.
bill		...Bones ol' Bones so mean and bad, whupped his mamma, shot his dad.
maurice		Saw Bones ol' Bones on top of the hill. Rolling fat jays outta hundred dollar bills.
tia		...Lord he never worked a day and he never will...
maurice		Can you take a little extended solo right about now, funk soul brotha?
bill		Go for it.
maurice		Hey, baby.  Time for a little meat beat manifesto.
bill		Where's the gangsta of love?
patrick		Probably stoned out of his gourd in some corner.
bill		Well, go find his lazy ass.  I scratch any more tonight I'm gonna have carpal tunnel syndrome.
patrick		Yo.  Maurice.  Where are you?
shotgun		Unh-unh.  Let it burn.
pearl		I don't know.
bones		You won't be needing this.
investigator		Flying razor, big black man, spontaneous explosion.  I got just one question: what the hell narcotic were you all on?
patrick		We never did that.  Only...Maurice was into it.
cop		That's the one you left behind?
bill		Yeah.  My man Maurice.  The Space Cowboy. The Gangsta of Love.
jeremiah		None of you say another word.
pearl		It's alright, baby.
cinnabar		Who was he, Momma?  He tried to kill us.
pearl		If he was trying to kill you, you'd be dead.
cinnabar		Who?  Who is he?  What is he?
pearl		Your father.  He was your father.
jeremiah		I don't want any of you ever back down there again.  You hear me?  And this time you'll listen to me.  Or I'll let them throw your asses in jail.  I mean it.
pearl		You got his hands.  Beautiful hands.  I didn't even know.  That night.  When they - we - killed him, that you were already alive inside me.  Life's like that. Grows right out of death.
cinnabar		But if it's him.  If he's really come back, won't he know us?  Love us?
pearl		Sure, if it was really him.  But it isn't that simple.  Jimmy's body died a long time ago.  And his soul is long gone, and all that's left is that ravening, hungry spirit in the blood that soaked into the house itself, I suppose.
cinnabar		But how do you know?  Maybe he just wanted to see us?  And now he's gone again.  And you've all killed my father for the second time.
shotgun		It wasn't my fault.  I didn't know what they'd planned.
bones		Shush.  It don't matter now.
shotgun		No.  Really, Jimmy.  Remember, man.  It's me.  I was on your side.  Don't you remember?
bones		Take a look at what I remember, brother...
shotgun		I had no choice, Jimmy.  What else could I do?
bones		You coulda died with me.  Died trying.
patrick		Did you do it?
jeremiah		Sure, son.  I went down there and torched the place myself.
patrick		You could have had it done.  You didn't want us there.
jeremiah		I wouldn't have risked killing you to get you out.  I was trying to protect you.
patrick		From what?
jeremiah		It's...it's a bad neighborhood.  As you can see now.
patrick		Bullshit, Dad.  Don't front me.  For once.  Just tell me the truth.  I came from there, too.
jeremiah		You were just a kid.
patrick		I saw your face.  You knew that place. You knew those people.
jeremiah		That's the past.  It's dead.
patrick		Dead?  I don't think your past is dead.  It's alive.  And it bites.
stank		Looking to score?
bones		Unh-unh, little brother.  I got a natural high.  A supernatural high.
stank		Hey, Eddie Mack don't like no wackos on his street.  Go be Rain Man on some other bitch's block.
bones		 Big Bad Eddie Mack?  Got shit for brains and that's a fack.  Hey-heh...
weaze		Yeah.  But he got a baaaad coat.  Whataya say, bro?  I check out your coat?
bones		Sure.  Here it is.
stank		Wh-wh-whooo?
bones		Bones.
pearl		 Welcome back, lover.
bones		No.  Not...not you.  You I forgive.
pearl		Forgive me?  The hell with you, Jimmy. Cause I don't forgive you, I don't forgive you for dying.  And for being so goddamn stubborn.  Or for haunting my dreams.  And I don't forgive you for anything you're about to do.
mack		You boys been hitting the pipe?
weaze		No, Eddie.  It's just that, I dunno.  He was tall, and thin, and like a shadow, his face was just a blur.  All I remember is the voice.  It was smooth and low and it didn't seem to be comin' out of his mouth.
mack		Then how'd you hear it, fool?
weaze		It was just like in my head.
mack		Maybe I oughta open a couple holes in that head and let all them voices out. You'll feel better, I promise.
stank		No, Eddie, man.  Wait.
mack		I told you not to lie to me.  Now what the hell happened?
coke whore		 What about me, baby?
mack		Shutup, bitch.  Now what, he just said to tell you what?  He was back?  Who was back?
stank		Bones.
mack		Bones?  What the fuck is that supposed to mean?  Get the fuck out of here.  Both of you, 'fore you hear my voice up in yo' head.
pearl		He'll kill them.  He'll kill every last one of them.
cinnabar		Who?
pearl		Eddie Mack, that cop.  And Jeremiah.  And even when he's done, who knows.  He won't be satisfied.  Just like that demon dog. Feed it, and it just grows hungrier. Feed his hunger for revenge - he just wants more.  Who knows where it'll stop. That kind of hunger ain't never satisfied.
cinnabar		Aren't you gonna do something about it?
pearl		Like what?  I got a little power, sure. A touch of the shining, a little of the sight.  But no more than you do.  We're not witches.  I can't wiggle my nose or say a magic word and make him go away. Besides, maybe they deserve it.  Maybe we all do.
cinnabar		I don't.  Patrick doesn't.  And his brother and sister don't.  And they're in the house with him.
pearl		 Fine.  Maybe I got nothing to lose. 'Cept you.
mack		Bones, my ass.  "...if you don't believe he's laid to rest/You count the holes in his motherfucking chest..."
coke whore		That tickles.  I want to hear that again.
mack		That's it, baby.  Gimme the rolling bass and I'll tickle your tweeter all night long...
mack		C'mon, baby!
bones		This it?  Your big-ass tidal wave.
lupovich		I know it.  The old slaughterhouse.  Hey, Sal.  That little weasel we popped today?  He's got something for us.  I knew he would once he thought about it.
sal		Shit, that was fast.
lupovich		12-year olds.  They scare easy.  Anyway, he's gonna tip their stash.  Come with me.
sal		I'm on my way home.  Can you handle it yourself?
lupovich		Oh, no.  Please don't make me go by myself.  I'm scaaaaaaaaaared.
sal		Fuckin' comedian.  See you tomorrow.
bones		Not half what I'm planning on...
bones		Just using it to carry your soul.
lupovich		Shit!  Fuck!
bones		 "Just try it...go ahead...it won't kill you."
pearl		We'll have to sneak in.
cinnabar		No we won't, Momma.  I'll just have them call and tell Patrick it's us.
pearl		Girl, they build gates like that to keep people like us out.
guard		 A young lady to see you.  A Miss Vaughn...
jeremiah		No.  Sorry.  Send her away.
guard		Sorry Miss.
cinnabar		Can't I call?  And talk to them.
guard		Sure.  But not from here.  Nearest public phone would be back a few miles.  Outside the mall.
pearl		Told you so.  Alright.  We tried.  Let's go home.
cinnabar		Mother!  No.
patrick		Cinnabar?  Walk around the north side. There's an opening there.
guard		Can I help y--
cinnabar		Why couldn't you just tell him to let us in?
patrick		My old man calls the shots.  He built that gate and these damn walls.
pearl		 You sure we oughta save him?  Why not just let see how safe his gates and walls keep him when his past comes calling?
patrick		Save him?  What are you talking about?
jeremiah		How did you get in here?
bones		Time like this, is that what you really want to know?  How I got the fuck in here?
patrick		Where's Dad?
nancy		His study.  Who're your friends?
patrick		Dad?  Open up.  Dad??
bill		We can't go back there.  Are you crazy? You saw --
pearl		It's the only way.  It's possible your father may not be dead yet.
bill		Well, close the fucking door by all means.  But don't expect me to go down there and do it.
pearl		I don't.
patrick		You ain't going down there.  Not alone. I'll go.
bill		Fine.  But I'm bringing a couple of friends.
pearl		They won't do you no good.
nancy		What are you doing?  I've just called the
patrick		Then we need to get out of here.  We can't try to explain this to them.  We'll be back.  Hopefully with Dad.
bones		You two bitches were just meat, never had any idea smarter than getting yourself a little more.  But my brother Jaybird, here.  He was smart.  He didn't just want more.  He wanted more with compound interest.
pearl		... see there ain't just two parts to a person.  There's three.  Body-Soul and Spirit.  The spirit lives in the blood. It's the wanting that holds body and soul together, and sometimes, the wanting lives on.  Jimmy's blood must still be in the house.
patrick		But the place burned to the ground.
pearl		The blood is still there.  We just gotta figure out where.
cinnabar		In his grave there was a cloth or a dress or something.  Covered with blood.
pearl		My God.  My dress.  We have to find it. And burn it.  And shut the door.
bones		 I don't understand it.  You were my Man. Since we was grasshoppas.  I always looked after you.  You had a piece of everything I had.
jeremiah		I didn't want a piece of yours, I wanted my own.
bones		And the hell everybody else, right?
jeremiah		Wait, Jimmy.  Think about it.  You woulda done the same thing if you was me.
bones		No brother.  I wouldn'ta.  I never done a man - any man.  Let alone a brother like that.  Course, as you can see, no good deed goes unfucked.  Now the question is, if the good get fucked, what we got saved up for the bad?  You about to find out.
bones		It's a trip, ain't it?
pearl		We've got to hurry.  We've got to shut the door.  They're getting out.
patrick		There was a storm door, to the cellar.
jeremiah		What will it take?  What do you want? Just tell me, Jimmy!
bones		Aw that's easy.  I want my life back. Can you swing that, my brother?
jeremiah		You know I can't.
bones		Then fuck it!!!
bill		Here!
patrick		It's not safe down there.  The fire started down there.  The whole thing could collapse.
pearl		Then your father's a dead man and Jimmy Bones is gonna be around a long time.
patrick		Here.
pearl		Is it there?
bill		NO!!!!!!
pearl		It's alright.  Let me.
cinnabar		Mama!!!!!
bones		I've got what I want.  Turn around baby, look at me.  Look at your man.
pearl		What?
bones		I always loved you in this dress.
patrick		We can climb out.
bill		Climb out to where?
patrick		Anywhere but here.
pearl		Where are we, baby?
bones		Where we'll always be...
pearl		But.
bones		Hush, baby.
patrick		Is this Hell?
bill		 Or just Hell-adjacent...
cinnabar		Ain't no Heaven.  Ain't no Hell.  There's just the world of the dead, my momma always talked about.  Like she said, the door is open, and we're seeing right through our world into this one.  We just have to remember what was really here. And follow it.  Those stairs should take us to the second floor.
bones		Just like I told you this morning, I'd be stroking your neck tonight.
patrick		Shit.
bill		Maurice!
cinnabar		That's not Maurice --
patrick		Maurice.  Hold up, man.
cinnabar		I'm here.
patrick		Bill!  Bill?!
cinnabar		Patrick, he's...
patrick		Okay, okay.  Listen:
cinnabar		I can't find you.
patrick		Here!
cinnabar		Is that you?
patrick		Yeah.  Come on.  Don't let go.
jeremiah		Paaatrick...
bones		Welcome home, baby girl.
jeremiah		Please...help me...
patrick		Dad?
jeremiah		Help me.  I'm so sorry.  But please, help me...
patrick		Daddy?
jeremiah		Please.  Help me.  I'm scared.
patrick		No!!!
pearl		Noooooo!
bones		NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!
pearl		 Get out!!!  Go!!!
patrick		We gotta jump!
cinnabar		I can't!
patrick		We have to!
patrick		We made it...
****Dialogues from script :Bonfire_of_the_Vanities.txt****

april 2, 1990		WARNER BROS. INC.                         1990 4000 Warner Boulevard                    WARNER BROS. INC. Burbank, California 91522                All Rights Reserved
female aide		jumps onto the cart and tries to hold him up.   The male aide runs alongside the cart.
various waiters		in black tie carry covered silver trays as they trot through the tunnel. VARIOUS BUSBOYS
elevator doors		open. Fallow is led out of the elevator. Several other aides approach him and pull off his soiled jacket and shirt and change them for fresh ones as they move. SOME BROADWAY AUTOGRAPH HOUNDS
sherman		Come on, Marshall. Come here. Stay. Come on. Stay.
judy		You are not taking the dog for a walk. You are taking 'Marshall' for a walk. Marshall has a name. He is one of our family. And, anyway, it's raining. SHERMAN I know that. The DOG GROWLS and snaps at Sherman.
judy		So does Marshall. I don't think he wants to go. Do you, Marshall?                     * SHERMAN Judy... JUDY Alright.   Alright. Sherman gets the leash fastened. He stands up, pulls on a rubberized British riding mac. Judy flicks a tiny plastic bag out of a cleverly-concealed container and hands it to Sherman. JUDY Have a nice time. 14    OMITTED                                                      14 &                                                                  & 15                                                                 15
sherman		Neither am I, Bill.
sherman		Yes, of course. Come on, Marshall.
sherman		Good evening, Pollard. POLLARD You know it's raining, don't you? SHERMAN Yes. As a matter of fact, I did notice. POLLARD Ah, Sherman. A true friend to man's best friend. SHERMAN Pollard, you old phrase-maker.
pollard		I beg your pardon.
sherman		I mean, is that the best you can do? Is that as witty as we get?
sherman		Maria!    Hello. It's me.
judy		Sherman, if you want to talk to somebody named Maria, why do you call me instead? Sherman pokes his head into the room.
sherman		If I what?   Whatever do you mean? JUDY Please don't lie. It makes your                       * forehead crinkle.                                     * SHERMAN About what? Wait a minute.     What are we talking about? JUDY You should see your face. It's a                      * veritable roadmap of tension and                      * deceit.                                               * SHERMAN I'm sorry, but I don't get it. Have I missed something? JUDY Darling, the only thing you're                        * missing is common sense. You're                       * going to stand there and tell me you didn't call here and ask to speak to some Maria?
sherman		Who? 
sherman		Judy, I was out walking the dog. I was not on the telephone.
judy		Crinkle, crinkle, crinkle.                             * SHERMAN I'm not   lying. I took Marshal for a walk,   and I come back in here and wham   -- I mean I hardly know what to   say. You're asking me to prove a   negative proposition.
judy		'Negative proposition'?! Oh, God, Sherman. Listen to the way I sound. Listen to the stress. Can                       * you hear it? I don't want to be                        * this person. I don't. I am thin. I am beautiful. I don't deserve this. She gets off the bike, grabs a robe and heads for the door.
sherman		Judy... JUDY There's the phone. Why don't you just call her from here? I don't care. I really don't care. You are cheap and rotten and a liar,                       * and you are dripping on the                            * Aubusson carpet.                                       * She goes. Sherman collapses in a chair.       He looks at the phone. PETER  She was right, of course. And Sherman knew it. Christ. How could he have been so stupid? A simple phone call... DISSOLVE TO:
sherman		Campbell, honey. Are we ready? CAMPBELL I'm out of here. SHERMAN Slow down.    Where's your mother?
judy		She won't kiss me because I'm all wet.
sherman		Campbell, kiss your mother. Campbell kisses Judy. 
doorman		Bill, sir.   My name is Bill.
sherman		Yes, of course. Campbell, say hello to Tony.
campbell		Hi, Bill. DOORMAN 'Morning, Campbell.
another man		If you can't see the goddamn screen, then I can't help you. If you can't see what the hell we're talking about, then what are we talking about?! THIRD MAN Well, then why do you think everybody's stripping the twenty years?! 33     ANGLE - BLACK SHOESHINE MAN                                     33
fourth man		Bid eight and a half. And then I want you to work hard on this, see what's happening with the escrow, do they forfeit or no? FIFTH    MAN This Goldman order    really fucked things up. And the     banks are calling it 73. Why     are they pissing on us like    that? 
seventh man		I'm telling you somebody's painting you a fucking picture! Can't you see that?! I'm telling you to swap them. You got all this downside protection if the Jap market rallies. Just do it, do it, do it!
sherman		Calm. Cool. Colated. Let's not lose our composure over a few hundred million dollars.
rawlie		Jesus Christ, Sherman.    You must be made of ice.
sherman		I'm confident on this, Gene.   It's a real sleeping beauty. A THROTTLED ROAR comes out of the SPEAKER. RAWLIE Where are you, Gene?
sherman		What do you say, Gene.   Are we in or out? 
sherman		A rich old man, Gene.   A rich old man. Another ROAR of the CROWD comes over the SPEAKERS. GENE 
sherman		At ease, gentlemen. The meeting breaks up.
maria		Oh, dear. Are we going to talk about it right now?
sherman		Yes.   We have to.
maria		Don't you want a little poon tang first? SHERMAN Maria.   Please. This is important. MARIA Alright.   Tell mama all about it. 40    EXT. MERCEDES - NIGHT                                          40 moving off the Van Wyck and onto the Grand Central Parkway. 41    INT. MERCEDES - SHERMAN AND MARIA - NIGHT                      41 Maria is laughing. She is fiddling with the back of Sherman's neck and chewing on his ear while her other hand is in his crotch. Maria is laughing.                           * SHERMAN I know it has its funny side but it isn't funny. MARIA Well, it's your own fault for                          * getting caught like a red herring.                     * SHERMAN You mean red-handed.                                   *
maria		That's what I said... Couldn't we                      * just forget about your wife and                        * go on over to our little hideaway                      * on 59th Street and hide away a                         * little?                                                * 
maria		Well, of course she knows.   That's not the point.
sherman		It isn't? MARIA Oh, Sherman, honey. You are so sweet. I could eat you alive, if I could get this zipper down. Sherman, aren't we supposed to turn there?
sherman		Where? 42    HIS POV - SIGN                                               42 reading "Manhattan" way off to the right, several full lanes away. MARIA  I'm sure that's the turnoff to Manhattan.
sherman		We're in the Bronx.
maria		What does that mean? SHERMAN It means we're going north. All I need to do is make a left and go                         * west and find a street back to Manhattan.
maria		Sherman? SHERMAN Yes, Maria.
maria		Where are all the white people?
maria		Sherman, get us out of here.                             * SHERMAN I have a red light.
sherman		Maria! MARIA Drive, Sherman. Just drive.
maria		It's a body. SHERMAN It looks like...
maria		It's an animal.
sherman		I think it's a... MARIA Is it dead? SHERMAN It's a wheel, that's all.   It's a tire. MARIA It's a dead tire! SHERMAN Calm down, Maria. Please. It's a tire and some ash cans or something. Sherman starts to get out of the car. MARIA What are you doing?!
sherman		Well, I can't drive around it, can I?
maria		You're going to move it? SHERMAN Yes. That's exactly what I'm going to do. MARIA For God's sake, be careful of your shoes.
sherman		Excuse me.   I have to go. 
roland		Where you going with that tire?
sherman		Oh. Is this yours? Here.    You take it. Sherman pushes the tire toward Roland. Roland pushes it back at him. Sherman throws up his arms. The tire bounces off his arms and knocks Roland down. SHERMAN Oh. Sorry.   I'm sorry, I didn't mean to... 65   ANGLE - MARIA                                                65 HONKS the HORN again and drives the car toward Sherman. 66   ANGLE - SHERMAN                                              66
sherman		Look out! 73   ANGLE - ROLAND                                               73
maria		The police?
sherman		I mean we were almost robbed and I think maybe it's possible you... we hit one of them. There was this kind of... There was this sound. Did you hear it? Like we hit one of them. MARIA Did you see him get hit? SHERMAN No.
maria		Neither did I. So if the question ever comes up, all that happened was, two boys blocked the road and tried to rob us and we got away. That's all we know. They go into... 83   INT. BROWNSTONE - SHERMAN AND MARIA - NIGHT               83 climbing the stairs.
sherman		But if we called the police now... MARIA Yes, let's call them and invite them over here to our little love nest. They would love to get their hands on us. The police and the press and all the rest of the 'mediarites.' SHERMAN Meteorites?
sherman		I'd just feel better if... Maria drops everything and turns on him... MARIA You don't have to feel better, Sherman. I was the one who was driving. And I'm saying I didn't hit anybody, and I'm not reporting anything to the police! And if you are a gentleman, you will support me in that decision. Silence. They are both out of breath. They look at each other. Then Maria starts to unbutton her blouse.
maria		 We were in the jungle... we were attacked... we fought our way out. SHERMAN It's true.   We could have been killed. MARIA We fought.   I feel like an animal.
sherman		You drove the hell out of that car.
maria		The hard part was getting into the seat, getting over that gear shift.
sherman		It was instinct. MARIA That tire...
sherman		He was big... wasn't he?
maria		You were bigger, Sherman.    You were great...
sherman		We were both great. MARIA This could be the best sex we've had in a long time. SHERMAN I don't know.    I still think... MARIA Don't think, Sherman.    Don't think. Just fuck.
kramer		 What did he do? RAY He pulled a knife on a seventy- year-old lady, robbed her, raped her and then shoved her in a garbage can.
kramer		Jesus.
ray		 Welcome to the South Bronx.
clerk		People versus Harold Williams. Indictment number 294721.                              * JUDGE WHITE This case was dismissed three weeks ago. 
kramer		Uh, Kramer, sir. Assistant District... JUDGE WHITE                           * You're new here, Mr. Kramer. Let me explain something to you. This case is what we call a piece of shit. Which means, loosely translated, that you have no evidence. KRAMER Your Honor, the District Attorney, Mr. Weiss... JUDGE WHITE                           * I know who the district attorney is. I know Mr. Weiss. And the only reason Mr. Weiss is interested in the case is because Mr. Williams over there is a white man who lives in a nice big house in Riverdale. KRAMER I don't follow, sir... JUDGE WHITE                           * Because this is an election year. Because ninety-nine percent of the people you shovel through here are black and the other ninety-nine percent don't even speak English. But they do vote. 
judge white		So you go tell your boss, the district attorney, Captain Ahab Weiss that I know he's out there looking for the great white defendent... but Mr. Williams over there is not it.
martin		I'm Martin. This is Detective Goldberg. We just come from Lincoln Hospital. You got a minute? 
goldberg		Hit and run. KRAMER The mother tell you this, too?
ray		So why are you coming to us? You got a victim who's unconscious, you got no witness, no driver -- you got what we call here a piece of shit. Ain't that right, Mr. Kramer? Martin and Goldberg look at each other.
martin		What we got here is a problem. GOLDBERG You ever hear of Reverend Bacon? RAY Oh, no. Not me. Kramer, this is all yours. I'll see you gentlemen later. Andruitti turns and goes.
cut to:		95    OMITTED                                                          95   * &                                                                      & 96                                                                     96   * 97    INT. REV. BACON'S CHURCH  - CLOSE ON CHOIR OF            97 BLACK WOMEN - DAY
kramer		Well, uh... first of all, Reverend ... Is it Reverend? BACON Is, was, and always will be. KRAMER First of all, Reverend, we have no evidence of... BACON This is your evidence... 98   ANGLE TO INCLUDE MRS. ANNIE LAMB                               98 coming up the aisle behind them.                                    *
kramer		Oh, sorry, ma'am. I didn't see...
bacon		Mrs. Lamb is not speaking to the police. Until we have proper counsel, I will speak for her.
kramer		Alright, then. Let me see if I have this straight. The boy was hit by a car...
bacon		On Bruckner Boulevard. Innocently walking along, minding his own business... A clear case of hit-and-run. 
bacon		You got what he told his mother. KRAMER That's hearsay. You may believe it and I may believe it, but it's not admissable in a court of law. BACON If this boy was born on Park Avenue and he was run down by two niggers in a Pontiac Firebird, then you'd have a case! Wouldn't you?! MARTIN I work Park Avenue and I work Bruckner Boulevard, Reverend. There's good and bad in both places. Now we'll do everything we can for this lady. But we don't have a hell of a lot to go on. BACON Gentlemen, I want you to make an investment here. An investment in steam control. KRAMER Steam control? BACON That's right. Steam control. Because a righteous steam is building up in the souls of my people and that steam is ready to blow.
kramer		I see.   Well...
bacon		Now, on judgment day, I am your safety valve. Because when it blows -- and it will, my friend -- how grateful you will be that I am on your side -- the one nigger who can control the steam and save your lily white ass from being burned off the face of the earth so to speak. 
kramer		Well, Reverend. I'll see what I can do.
bacon		The next time you gentlemen hear from us, it will be through our lawyer. Mrs. Lamb goes to Kramer. MRS. LAMB He said it started with an 'R.' That was the first letter. The second letter was an 'E' or a 'B' or maybe a 'P.' Those were the first two letters of the license plate. If that's any help to you. 99    EXT. ROAD - LICENSE PLATE - DAY                                99
sherman		My father did it. JDUY You are not your father. PETER FALLOW  She knew how to hurt a guy. No. He was nothing like his father. His father, the lion of Dunning, Sponget and Leach. His father, who took the subway to work every day of his life. His father, who still believed in principals and ethics, whose repeated lessons concerning duty, debt and responsibility had whistled through his son's head. No. Sherman McCoy was nothing like his father. 102   EXT. BEACH HOUSE - PORCH - DAY                                102
campbell		But what's a bond?
sherman		No, I don't actually build them... MR. McCOY I think you're in over your head. More laughter.
judy		Here. Let me try. Darling, Daddy doesn't build roads or hospitals or anything, really. Daddy just handles the bonds for the people who raise the money. CAMPBELL That's what he said. Bonds.
judy		Yes. See, just imagine that a bond is a slice of cake. Now you didn't bake that cake, but every time you hand somebody a slice of that cake, a little bit comes off, little crumbs fall off. And you're allowed to keep those crumbs. 
judy		 Yes. And that's what Daddy does. He passes somebody else's cake around and picks up the crumbs. But you have to imagine a lot of crumbs. And a great golden cake. And a lot of golden crumbs. And you have to imagine Daddy running around picking up every little golden crumb he can get his hands on. That's what Daddy does. SHERMAN Well, you can call them crumbs if you want to... JUDY That's the best I can do.   Excuse me.
sherman		Yes.   Well... MR. McCOY Now it's not about anything, is it? Except the money. SHERMAN I don't make the rules.
sherman		We're having a little... It's nothing serious. Really.
peter		Yes. And a very pretty someone he is, too.
caroline		 This is Filippo Chirazzi, the artist. This is Peter Fallow, the has-been.
peter		Enchante.   We're a little crowded. 
caroline		No thanks, Peter. The last time I sat on your face, I ended up with a yeast infection.
evelyn		Lovely.
moore		 This is one of my invisible employees. One of the many journalists who are supposed to be writing for my newspaper. You're very fortunate to see him because I hardly ever do.
peter		Gerald, have a drink.     Please, I can explain. 
moore		I sincerely hope so, Fallow. I sincerely hope so. Come, Evelyn.
albert		When the rights of any people are threatened -- no matter how big or how small -- Albert Fox will always be on the case.
peter		Well, yeah, but... Look, it's an unfortunate situation. But I'm not altogether sure there's a story in it. FOX A poor, innocent black kid, walking down the street, minding his own business. And boom! Hit and run. There's a story in it for somebody, Peter. The black community is up in arms. And I'm telling you, when Reverend Bacon gets a feather in his ass, the shit flies high. PETER I see. Yes, but what's your interest exactly? FOX I'm a lawyer, Peter. I want to see justice done. That's all. And, of course, Reverend Bacon is a friend of mine. This would be good for him. And knowing a little about                        * your situation, I thought if you were the one to break the story... PETER My situation? 
peter		I see. 114F   INT. LIMOUSINE - NIGHT                                             114F
peter		Do you have a daughter? FOX Yes.    I do.    A little girl. PETER Does she have a little toy wagon?
fox		Yes.    I think she does.    Yes.   Why? PETER I'll have a Scotch and water.                                * FOX Good.    Good.   Get in. They get into the limo. 115    INT. MOTOR VEHICLE OFFICE - COMPUTER SCREEN - NIGHT                115
assistant		You'll read all about it in the newspapers. Come on. Let's do R.E., R.P. and R.B. and see what we get.
rifkin		Henry Lamb?   Who's that?
peter		He was a student of yours at Ruppert High. In your English class. RIFKIN He was?   What's he done?
peter		He was seriously injured. I'm a journalist. I write for a newspaper. RIFKIN Oh.   I don't remember him.
peter		What I would like to find out is what kind of student he was. RIFKIN Well, if I don't remember him, I guess he was okay. PETER Would you say he was a 'good' student? RIFKIN 'Good' doesn't really apply to Ruppert High. They're either cooperative or life-threatening. There's no in-between.
peter		His mother says he was considering going to college.
rifkin		Well, she means City College. They have an open admissions policy. So, if you live in the city and you graduate from high school and you're still breathing, they have to take you. 
peter		Fallow.
rifkin		I got sixty-five students in every class...
peter		Do you have any of his written work? RIFKIN Oh, Jesus, there hasn't been any written work at Ruppert High since... oh, fifteen years. Maybe twenty. PETER Well, there must be some record of how he measures up to the others... RIFKIN No. See, you're thinking about grades and honor students and high achievers. We don't make those kinds of comparisons. We're just trying to keep them off the street. At Ruppert High, an honor student is somebody who comes to class and doesn't piss on the teacher.
peter		 Well, by that standard, is Henry Lamb an honors student?
rifkin		Well, he never pissed on me. So by that standard, yes. I guess he must be.
sherman		 Holy fucking shit. I want out!    I want out!! 128   OMITTED                                                       128   * &                                                                   & 129                                                                 129   * 130   EXT. STREET - SHERMAN - DAY                                   130
maria		Sherman, darling. I was just thinking about you. Where have you been? 
maria		Don't I get a kiss first? SHERMAN Have you read it?
maria		Oh, Sherman, you know I only read the newspapers spasmodically.
sherman		Sporatically, Maria. Sporatically. MARIA Yes. Me, too. Now come on in and have a drink. I know just what you need.
sherman		Absolutely wrong! All of it. And who is this Peter Fallow? He has everything wrong. They don't even mention the other boy. And what about the ramp and the tire?! They're talking about a little saint here who was on his way to get milk and cookies for his widowed mother. As they go into the building...
cut to:		131   INT. MARIA'S APARTMENT - WORKMAN - DAY                         131
maria		Excuse me, but what is going on here? WORKMAN We're putting in a new intercom system. All the apartments. The super let me in. Are you... 
maria		Well, uh... I don't live here. I'm just a guest of Miss Heftshank. So...
workman		Okay.   No problem. I'm all done. He packs up and leaves.
maria		Nothing. Caroline pays $351 for this place. It's rent controlled. I sublet it for eleven hundred a month. But it's not legal. They would love to get Caroline out of here. But they have to prove she doesn't live here. SHERMAN You don't think it's weird this fellow showed up today. After that unconscionable piece in the paper. MARIA Oh, Sherman. You are    completely paranoidical. Look, I    have to leave for the airport   in twenty minutes. So we don't    have much time. * SHERMAN You don't think they could possibly trace the car to me?
sherman		Right. There is the other boy, however. Suppose he came forward.
maria		If he was gonna materialize, he would have done it by now. And the reason he hasn't, is because he's a criminal. Would you get my blue jacket out of that closet? Sherman gets the jacket.     Maria starts putting a painting        * into her portfolio.                                                 * SHERMAN What a wretched painting.
maria		Filippo Chirazzi. He's a friend of Caroline. Do you know him? SHERMAN I hope not.   God, Maria, it looks like you. MARIA No. No. How could it be? Come on, give me a hand. I'm taking it with me.
sherman		Where are you going? MARIA The airport. I told you. I have a car coming in -- oh, God, ten minutes. We have time for a quickie. What do you say?
sherman		I'm upset, Maria. I just lost 600 million dollars. And possibly my job. I don't feel terrifically sexy at the moment.
maria		Am I? She kisses him.
sherman		I suppose we could still go to the police. We could get a very talented lawyer...
maria		And put our heads right into the horse's mouth? I'm the one who was driving the car. Don't you think I'm the one who should make the decision? And I say, no. No, Sherman. Trust me. Nothing is going to come of this little newspaper article. Absolutely nothing. * They are making love as we... CUT TO: 132    EXT. BRONX STREET - LARGE WHITE VAN - DAY                       132
peter		Peter Fallow, from City Light. BUCK  Oh yeah.   Right.
peter		Where are all the people?
bacon		Mr. Fallow. Our hero. I feel as if we already know each other. And Mr. Corsaro. You have an                               * exclusive here. You understand me? I could have had every newspaper and T.V. station spreading this news thinly, too thinly across the airways. But I have chosen only you two. And I expect big coverage, in-depth coverage. 
bacon		Honesty has nothing to do with this, Mr. Fallow. This is show business. And I've never known the two to go hand in hand.
peter		Well, I am a journalist... BACON You're a drunk, Mr. Fallow. That's what I've been told. And you're almost out of a job. Aren't you? Or am I misinformed? PETER I think maybe you've got the wrong man, here. BACON Oh, I don't think so. I don't think so at all. Get with the program, Mr. Fallow, you may have been a knight in shining armour back in Kansas. But this is New York City. And I'm telling you, when you come to work in a whore house, there's only one thing you want to be -- and that's the best whore in the house.
bacon		Brothers and sisters. I stand before you with a heart that is broken. And I stand before you with a heart that is angry. Heart broken because our brother, our neighbor, our son, Henry Lamb has been stuck down in the prime of his young life. And now he lies in a hospital, broken like my heart. But my heart is also angry. Angry because the driver of that car did nothing for him! And neither did the police. And neither did this man -- Mr. Abraham Weiss. Bacon holds up a Weiss campaign poster -- a photo of Weiss reading -- "WEISS FOR MAYOR JUSTICE FOR ALL"                            *
bacon		This man has turned his back on Henry Lamb. And I, for one, am not going to stand for it. No sir! During the above, a group of kids are pushing and shoving and laughing behind Bacon, trying to get on camera. Also during Bacon's speech... 148    OMITTED                                                      148
cut to:		150   INT. DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE - DAY                        150
weiss		Who the hell are you? KRAMER Kramer, sir.    I'm...
ray		Trace the car, what for? We don't have a witness. We don't even know where it happened. We don't even know if it happened. 
ray		We don't have a case, even if we find the car. Even if we find the owner and the owner says, oh, yeah, gee, yeah, I hit this kid, yeah, the other night, and yeah I didn't stop and I didn't report it. I did it. I did it. Then we have a case.
weiss		Just trace the fucking car.
weiss		We're going to prove to these niggers that this administration loves them. 
sherman		Hello, Tony.
doorman		Eddie, sir. SHERMAN Right.   What's... DOORMAN These gentlemen...
martin		Sorry to bother you. I'm Detective Martin. This is Detective Goldberg. We're investigating an automobile accident. Maybe you heard about it... 
sherman		Oh, yes, yeah. On television. Last night. We said -- my wife said, 'Good Lord, we have a Mercedes and the license starts with an R.' MARTIN You and a lotta people.
sherman		Oh, really?
doorman		Are you going up, sir? SHERMAN Ah. Well. Yes. Sure.        Would you...? Do you...?
martin		Is this a bad time? SHERMAN No. No.   Not at all.      Come up. Yes. 174D   INT. ELEVATOR - SHERMAN, MARTIN AND GOLDBERG - DUSK               174D * MARTIN We just need to ask a few questions...
sherman		Sure.   Yes.   Go ahead. MARTIN So. Let's see. Can you tell us if your car was in use the night this happened?
sherman		When exactly was it? MARTIN Tuesday a week ago.
sherman		I don't know. Let me think.         I'd have to figure...
sherman		My wife. Sometimes. And the people at the garage.
martin		Parking garage. SHERMAN Yes. MARTIN You leave the car with the keys and they park it.
sherman		Well... yes. MARTIN Could we go there and take a look at it?
sherman		So you want to take a look at the car then.
sherman		I see.
martin		We don't have a description of a driver. So we gotta look for the car. And that means bothering a lot of innocent people. We're sorry about the inconvenience. But it's a routine sort of thing. SHERMAN I understand. But if it is a routine, well, I should, I guess I ought to... well, follow the routine that's appropriate to me, to someone with a car in this situation. You see? Martin and Goldberg look at each other.     Then they follow Sherman into... 174G   INT. LIBRARY - SHERMAN, MARTIN, GOLDBERG - DUSK                174G * MARTIN No.   I don't follow. SHERMAN Well, I mean, if you have a routine in an investigation like this -- I don't know how these things work, but there must also be a routine for a person like me, an owner of a car with a license number -- I think that's what I need to consider. The routine. MARTIN We just want to look at the car. SHERMAN That's what I mean. You see?
martin		No. GOLDBERG Excuse me, Mr. McCoy. But is there something you want to tell us? 
goldberg		Because, if there is, now is the time to tell us. Before things get complicated.
sherman		No. I just think... I think that, just to be sure, certain, safe... I think... GOLDBERG Let me put it this way, if you want to cooperate, that's great. If you have reasons for not cooperating, then I should tell you that you don't have to say anything. That's your right. If you want, you can say nothing at all. You also have the right to an attorney. I mean, for that matter, if you lacked the 'funds' for an attorney, the state would provide you with one -- free of charge.   If that's what you wanted.
goldberg		... But mainly, it's the look on his face. Ain't that the truth, Marty?
martin		Yeah. All of sudden, the bitch starts coming out of him.
goldberg		So I read him his rights -- as casual as I can do it. O(    BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES - Rev. 4/26/90                    67          *
martin		And then he sits down on the guy's desk. KRAMER What'd he do?
goldberg		Nothin' at first. But he's confused. And his eyes are getting bigger and he's double-talking like a son of a bitch. I'm thinking there's something there. CUT TO:
goldberg		Well... KRAMER McCoy.    Sherman McCoy.   We got him. WEISS You think it's him? MARTIN Well, we think so, yeah, but... KRAMER It's him. We got him. This guy is Park Avenue. His old man ran Dunning, Sponget and Leach. He's got his name in the columns. His wife is a fucking socialite. WEISS Does this put an end to this white justice shit?
kramer		I'll tell you what you got to do, sir. You've got to send a signal out to the poor people of this city. You got to let them know that justice is blind. You got to let them know that if you're white and rich, you get the same treatment you get when you're black and poor. You got to give people hope! WEISS You mean, we nail the wasp. KRAMER To the wall.
weiss		I like this man. I like him. Look. What's the kid's condition? Any chance he'll regain consciousness? RAY What if he does? He can't talk. He's breathing from a tube down his throat.
weiss		No.   But maybe he can point. RAY Point?
kramer		Might work. That might work. It's a long shot, but it might work.
ray		 You'll kill him. He wakes up out of a coma and sees four white men in suits and ties staring at him from the end of the bed, he'll shit and die. WEISS It's worth a try. RAY I don't believe what I'm hearing! Some poor gook with a tube down his throat pointing at a picture. That's your case?! It's never gonna stand up.
weiss		 I know that, Ray. I know that. I just want to bring the guy in! Just bring him in. That's all. We get the press. We get the attention. Then we can relax and do the right thing.
ray		Look at me, Abe. Watch my mouth. Read my lips. No. We cannot do that. No way. 
kramer		I think we got a witness.
weiss		 What?! What?!!
kramer		I think we got a mother-fucking witness!!!
hayden		... So I walk up to him and I say, hello, I'm from Legal Aid, I'm your lawyer. And he says, 'Fuck you, mother. I don't want no nigger lawyer. I want a Jew.' KRAMER Nice guy. HAYDEN This is his third drug arrest. He wants a deal.
kramer		And he'll say he was there, at the scene? HAYDEN He'll say whatever you want him to say. 179   CLOSE ON ROLAND                                              179 CUT TO:
killian		I'm telling you, they got nothing on you, Mr. McCoy.  Get me Andruitti over in the Bronx. Tell him it's urgent about this Henry Lamb shit.
sherman		But suppose the other fellow comes                       * forward. I swear there was another one. He was big...                               *
killian		I believe you. It was a set-up. They were going to take you off. Sounds to me like he's got good reasons not to come forward. You just sit tight. That's what you do.
sherman		It means I want to take the initiative. I want to go to the police with Maria -- Mrs. Ruskin -- and just tell them exactly what happened. I mean, I don't know about the law, but I feel morally certain that we did what was right -- in the situation we were in. And I don't see... KILLIAN Ayyyy! You Wall Street honchos are real gamblers. Ayyy! Whaddaya whaddaya! They would devour you. They would eat you up. SHERMAN But why? KILLIAN Forget it's already a political football. Forget the T.V. and Reverend Bacon and Weiss has an election coming up. Forget that and remember that when you work in the D.A.'s office and every day you prosecute people with names like Tiffany Latour and Sancho Rodriguez and Chong Wong and Shabazz Kazan Tamali, you are dying to get your hands on a nice white couple like you and Mrs. Ruskin. Biscuit city, ehhh! You open your mouth and they will arrest you. And they will make a big show out of arresting you. And it will be very unpleasant.
killian		That is guaranteed. Believe me, you do not want to be arrested in the South Bronx.  I need to talk to your friend, Mrs. Ruskin, too. SHERMAN I understand you went to Yale.
killian		Yeah.     You, too. Huh? SHERMAN What did you think of it? KILLIAN It was okay. As law schools go. They give you the scholarly view. You know. It's terrific for anything you want to do -- as long as it doesn't involve real people.  So what does that mean? Okay. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He puts down the phone and looks at Sherman.
killian		We got a problem. SHERMAN What?     What is it?
killian		They're going to arrest you.                             *
judy		Tell him to wait. We'll be right down.
sherman		What?  What car?  No, Rawlie, I can't change it.
judy		Leon and Inez Bavardage. They are taking us to the opera. Eight o'clock. Tonight. And the car is here. SHERMAN Rawlie, I'll call you later. Just stay calm.  But why do we need a car? They only live six blocks from here.
sherman		We could walk.
judy		I can't walk down the street in this dress. A small wind would turn me into a kite.
sherman		Then let's take a taxi. * JUDY Why are we having this conversation?
sherman		Because a car is going to take us six blocks and wait there for five and a half hours and then drive us another six blocks home and it is going to cost us three hundred and forty-six dollars?! We are hemorrhaging money, Judy. It is pouring out of us with every beat of our heart. Isn't that worth talking about?!? Judy sits down and thinks. JUDY You're right. It might be cheaper in the long run to hire a permanent chauffeur. SHERMAN Judy, please...
judy		We'll talk about it later.
sherman		We have to talk now. JUDY We can't hire a chauffeur in the next fifteen minutes. SHERMAN We haven't talked about anything for the last three weeks.
judy		Well there's no reason to start now. 
judy		Sherman, this is a very important evening. It will determine whether or not I will be chairman of the museum benefit this year. I cannot be upset now. We can talk about it later. SHERMAN I'm going to be arrested in the morning. JUDY Really, Sherman, you'd do anything to ruin this for me. Wouldn't you? Now please. Get dressed. 184   INT. OPERA HOUSE - ONSTAGE - NIGHT                              184 The last scene of Don Giovanni is being played out.       The Commandatori has the Don in his grip, urging him to "repent." The Don refuses. The MUSIC THUNDERS threateningly. 185   OMITTED                                                         185   * 186   ANGLE - SHERMAN                                                 186
judy		Shhh!
cut to:		191   INT. MUSEUM - DIARAMA - NIGHT                                191
sherman		Well, it's unlikely.
sally		We were talking about the opera... AUBREY  'The wrath of heaven must be at                    * hand, its justice will not tarry. I see the deadly thunderbolt poised above his head! I see the fatal abyss open before him.' During the above, Sherman sees... 196   HIS POV - JUDY                                            196 is being introduced to Maria on the other side of the room. 197   ANGLE - SHERMAN                                           197
arthur		... My wife lives on airplanes.                    * She goes back and forth to Italy                   * like a Ping-Pong ball. She took a                  * house on Lake Como. She's crazy                    * now all of a sudden for anything Italian.
sherman		Uh... Judy... JUDY Sherman! Have you met Bobby Shalfet, from the opera? And Nunnally Voyd -- oh, and Arthur Ruskin and his wife Maria.
sherman		Well, hi. BOBBY And what do you do, Mr. McCoy?
sherman		Bonds. BOBBY Bonds. SHERMAN Bonds. BOBBY Well, the only bonds I know about are bail bonds. The group laughs and turns away from Sherman. BOBBY I was arrested last year in Montreal for pissing on a tree... As Judy tries to rejoin the group...
judy		Sherman, couldn't you try just once, to be a little bit interesting.
judy		Who?
sherman		The poet. He's on the short list for the Nobel Prize. He has AIDS. You'll love him.
maria		Sherman! We have to stop meeting like this. Do you know Boris, the ballet dancer?
sherman		Uh, no.
maria		Boris, je te presente Monsieur McCoy. Sherman, voila Boris Karlevskov. He's defective.
sherman		You mean he defected.                                    * MARIA I mean he doesn't speak any English. SHERMAN Are you sure? MARIA Yes. Watch. Boris, darling, would you like me to eat your ass?
boris		Encore du champagne, s'il vous plait. MARIA You see?   It went right over his head.
sherman		Maria, I need to talk to you. Something very... unexpected is happening.
maria		Of course, darling, but keep smiling. My husband is watching me. Look at him. He's so pleased with himself. He's just closed a new deal. A charter business. He's going to take Arabs to Mecca on airplanes.
maria		He'll make a fortune.
sherman		I don't think it will be too bad. My lawyer -- if you can call him that -- has received assurances that it will all be handled in an orderly fashion. MARIA He called me a whore today. Right in front of the servants. I mean, really. How does he expect me to run the house if he humiliates me in front of the help?
sherman		Yes.   Well.   You have a point. MARIA I'm sorry, Sherman.    What are we talking about? SHERMAN The other guy has come forward. He says I was driving the car. I'm going to be arrested tomorrow morning. I need to know from you ... I mean, what do you want me to say? MARIA Oh, Sherman, what...?!
sherman		Uh... AUBREY  Like so many of us now, with death and retribution waiting for us. Yet we go on whirling about each other... Sherman is looking past Aubrey.     He sees... 202    HIS POV - MARIA                                              202 goes to Arthur, whispers something in his ear. They leave quickly. For a brief moment, she looks back at... 203    ANGLE - SHERMAN                                              203 walking with Aubrey, trying to see where Maria went. AUBREY We are unable to stop, until death itself takes us into his arms and burns us with the fever of living, dragging us like Don Juan into the bonfires of hell. The words of the ghost ringing in our ears... 'Repent! Repent!'
cut to:		204    OMITTED                                                      204 * thru                                                                thru 206                                                                 206 *
killian		How do you feel? SHERMAN Top notch. Look. You said this was just a formality. KILLIAN No problem.   They promised me. SHERMAN I told Maria. I saw her last night. In case we need her. KILLIAN That explains it. She left the country this morning. You know some Italian painter named Filippo Sharutti, something like that? SHERMAN I don't know.    Why?
killian		I think your girl friend found a new boyfriend.
sherman		But...
killian		It's not going to be so bad. This is routine. I talked to Andruitti again last night. He promised me. We'll be in and out of there. No problem. Nobody is ever going to know it happened. MARTIN We got to cuff him.
killian		What for?
cut to:		211   EXT. CRIMINAL COURT BUILDING - SIDE ENTRANCE - MORNING        211 A line of men near a little metal door and a crowd of 50 people standing in the rain. Very still. Jed Kramer                 * is there, too.
peter		You don't know me but I'm... But Peter is buried in the onslaught before he can say another word.
sherman		I'm going to jail. Aren't I?
killian		Let me get out first. Now listen. You don't say anything. Don't cover your face. Don't hang your head. You don't even know they're there. Okay? SHERMAN I'm going to jail. 217   EXT. CAR - MARTIN AND KILLIAN                                   217 help Sherman out of the car and all hell breaks loose.
voices		You ever been arrested before? Who's the brunette? What were you doing in the Bronx? Why didn't you stop, Sherman? Sherman! This way! This way! How's your wife taking this, Sherman? A microphone is shoved into Sherman's face. 
killian		 Don't make any statements! Don't talk to anybody, especially in the pens!  I'll be upstairs when they bring you up for arraignment... KRAMER You may have a long wait, Mr. Killian. If I have anything to say about it. KILLIAN Yeah?   Fuck you, too, Kramer. 219   ANGLE - PETER FALLOW                                            219 pulls himself up off the ground.     He is more dazed than hurt.
goldberg		Whoa.   Whoa. Give me your coat. Okay.   Try it again.
goldberg		Hey, Martin.   Come here.   Look at this.
goldberg		It's his head! Swear to Christ. It's his head. Open your mouth.
clerk		Sherman McCoy. 224   ANGLE - OFFICER                                              224
judge white		You're what? 
sherman		For my life. For everything. I am truly sorry.
killian		Your Honor, the defendant is under extreme stress. He pleads not guilty.
sherman		I repent all the sins of my past life. I repent... KILLIAN Just shut up, Sherman.   Defendant pleads not guilty!
kramer		Your Honor...
spectators		No bail! No bail! Lock him up! Bang it shut!
kramer		We do not believe it will serve the interests of justice to allow this defendant to go free on a token bail...
killian		Your Honor, Mr. Kramer knows very well...
kramer		Given the emotions of the community... 
kramer		I have a petition from the community with an appeal to the District Attorney that justice be done. And Mr. Weiss himself has instructed me to request bail in the amount of $250,000. Cash. SPECTATORS  Yeah! Yeah! Tell him! Tell him! Tell him! JUDGE WHITE                              * If your office has information bearing upon the bail status of this case, I instruct you to make a formal application. Until then, I am releasing Mr. McCoy under a bond in the amount of $10,000. Now get this side show out of my court. KRAMER Your Honor, your action will do irreparable damage not only to the People's case... JUDGE WHITE                              * Mr. Kramer, I have spoken. KRAMER ... But to the cause of the people as well.
kramer		It ill-behooves the criminal justice system... 
kramer		Your Honor...
crowd		No bail!   Put him in jail!
voices		It's over! He's coming out!   Let's go! Let's go!
sherman		Sherman McCoy. PETER Yes. I know.     I know that.   What are you...? SHERMAN I need a taxi.
peter		You need to get out of here.
voices		The other way! Other way! He's coming out the back! Move! Move! Move!
peter		This way.   Come on.
peter		Are you alright? SHERMAN Oh, fine.   Yes, thanks. PETER Look, I owe you an apology... SHERMAN No, you were very helpful. PETER You don't know who I am. SHERMAN That's alright. Thanks.     I should go. PETER Go where?
sherman		Well...
peter		Look. Sit down. Just sit down a minute. I'll get you home.                              *
peter		Would you like a drink? I happen to have a little something...
peter		Go on. Fuck it. What are they going to do? Arrest you?
sherman		My father took the subway every                            * day of his life.                                           * PETER Yeah. But he didn't live in the                            * South Bronx. Did he?                                       * SHERMAN No. They both laugh. SHERMAN I look terrible. PETER You look like shit.       And you smell, too.
sherman		I think, when I was in the jail, I pissed in my pants.
sherman		I'm alright.
peter		Yeah. SHERMAN I can't think. 
sherman		They call me by my first name. Like they know me. Like they own me. Newspapers, lawyers, police, people I don't even know. How did I get to be so important? PETER You're not important. You're just dinner. You know what I mean? And a week from now, a month -- nobody is even going to remember what they ate.
sherman		I should have called the police right away, when it happened. But I couldn't you see? It wasn't really my decision.
peter		How do you mean?
sherman		I mean, I wasn't driving the car. PETER What?! 
peter		Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
nunnally voyd		Yes. But they always come back to the shit. Don't they? WOMAN And I always thought of you as such a dull person. MAN WITH PONYTAIL Sherman, has anybody talked to you about television? SHERMAN Uh... no.    What?                                    * MAN WITH PONYTAIL We'd have to play down the racial thing and try to make you a little more sympathetic. You know, sympathetic. * SHERMAN Excuse me... 235   ANGLE - RAWLIE THORPE                                        235 approaches Sherman.
rawlie		Sherman.    Gee. Hi.
sherman		Rawlie. RAWLIE Sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt anything. SHERMAN No.   No.
rawlie		Gene asked me to come by...
sherman		Yeah. I haven't really been able to talk to anybody. 
rawlie		Oh, that won't be necessary. That's what I came to... I was sent to tell you. I mean, you don't have to... I mean, you shouldn't come down. I mean, they don't want you to come down.
sherman		Oh.    I see.    Well. RAWLIE Jesus,  Sherman. I'm sorry. But between  all this and the way you handled  Bernard on the Giscard deal.                     * I mean,  six hundred million...                           * SHERMAN That's final, huh? RAWLIE Well, the firm feels... SHERMAN Yes.    Yes.    Of course.   Excuse me.
judy		You betrayed us, Sherman. Me. Campbell. Even yourself. On the                          * other hand, I am going to chair                          * the museum benefit thanks to you                         * and your escapades on the public                         * airways. What can I say? Life                            * goes on. I can only make the best                        * of an absolutely appalling situation and carry on. SHERMAN But can you forgive me? JUDY I suppose I can forgive   anything, but not television. I'm    leaving                       * you, Sherman. After the    party.                        * Now if you'll excuse me,   we have                       * guests.
sally		What am I saying? Of course it's a bad time. But I just wanted to see if I can be of any help.
sally		You know I haven't been in this apartment since the McCleods had it. That was before the Kittridges. I hope I'm not being out of place. SHERMAN Not at all... uh... SALLY Sally.
sherman		Anyway, thank you. SALLY No, really, anything I can do. With the apartment, is what I mean.
sherman		The apartment? SALLY I find people often need to be as liquid as they can in these situations and I know I can get you seven-and-a-half right at this moment. Fabled aristocratic tycoon -- it's the celebrity appeal. Maybe eight. If we act quickly this kind of opportunity doesn't come along every day. You have to ride the wave. SHERMAN Excuse me.   I have to... uh... Excuse me. 238   INT. LIVING ROOM - SHERMAN                                    238
pollard		Sorry to interrupt your dinner.
sherman		Not at all.   The more the merrier. POLLARD I've been in touch with the co-op board, well, most of them, and we want you to know you have our support.
sherman		You know, at first I wanted to die. Standing there in court, people calling my name... POLLARD Yes.   Of course. Hard to believe. SHERMAN And then I thought, I have a gun. Twelve gauge. Double barrel... FOLLOW them INTO...
pollard		Yes. This can't be a comfortable situation for you. 
pollard		Well...
sherman		This is my home... POLLARD I understand that... SHERMAN This is the only safe place I have. People are threatening my life. I have to protect myself. He loads the gun and fills his pockets with shells. POLLARD There are people demonstrating in front of our building. Black people with basketballs! You're putting everyone at risk. It's not your fault. But that doesn't alter the facts. FOLLOW Sherman and Pollard OUT of the study TO...
pollard		You are a shareholder in a cooperative. Look, we're not asking you to do anything of a permanent nature... 
sherman		And you can start by moving out of this apartment right now. Out! Now!
sherman		Oh, Pollard, you were a ridiculous fat blowhard at Buckley and you're a ridiculous fat blowhard now. Everyone watches as Sherman holds Pollard at gunpoint and steers him out of the room. POLLARD I will have to enforce the provision concerning unacceptable situations. SHERMAN Another word out of you, Pollard, and there's going to be an unacceptable situation right up                          * your ass! Now march!                                     * The guests applaud.    Sherman turns to face them.
sherman		And that goes for the rest of you, too. Out. All of you.
sherman		Out! Stinking lot of anorexic parasites. Get out of my house! 
sherman		Out of my house, out of my life!
man		He looks like a real killer, this                      * McCoy fellow. Doesn't he?                              *
another woman		You can see it in the photographs. You can see it in his chin.
another man		Arrogant son a bitch, isn't he? I hope they throw the book at him.
evelyn		Daddy.    Dinner. MOORE Yes, darling. Shall we have Peter here come along with us?
evelyn		Lovely. Gerald and Evelyn lead Peter toward the back dining room.
moore		I want to give this story our full attention, Peter. It makes us look better and better, the more we do for this Lamb family. Poor little Lambs, poor little fuzzy-wuzzy wogs. Caroline Heftshank intercepts them.     She is very drunk.
caroline		Excuse me, Peter. There's a phone call for you upstairs in the office.
peter		Where's the phone? 
caroline		You don't deserve this, Peter. But I'm going to tell you something.                         * * She reaches under her skirt and pulls off her panties. She drops them on the floor.
peter		Listen, Caroline. I'm sort of with some people tonight. CAROLINE Relax, darling. Do you remember my pretty little Italian friend? The painter.
peter		Yes. Yes, I do. Franco or Federico... CAROLINE Filippo.   The little shit. Caroline climbs up on the desk, lifts her skirt and sits down on the Xerox machine.
peter		Caroline, you're absolutely soused.
caroline		Well, Filippo has run off with a little slut you should know about.                     *
peter		You're joking. CAROLINE I never joke.    She was in the car. PETER But how do you know all this?
caroline		The apartment was bugged. They had a wire in the intercom. They were trying to prove that I wasn't living there. Which I wasn't. Now I've lost the apartment and the boyfriend.
peter		You don't know where they are? CAROLINE No. But I'm trusting you to find them. And when you do. Give them this. Tell them this is the little lady who turned them in. She takes one of the Xerox copies and hands it to Peter. Peter leaves. Caroline looks at the Xerox copy. CAROLINE Maybe I should advertise... 251   OMITTED                                                         251
peter		Yes. We've never met but I'm a good friend of... your wife.
arthur		 Give me a Couvoisier V.S.O.P. No. Put it in a sidecar. PETER Yes.   Uh... where is Maria, by the way?
arthur		Italy. Every time I turn around, she's in Italy. I'm not supposed to drink. But I love a sidecar. It was Willi Nordhoff introduced me to them. So. You're on the City Light? PETER Uh, yes. And we're doing a little profile piece. We're calling it the 'New Tycoons.' And, naturally, we thought of you.
arthur		Good. Good. I like that. New tycoons. So what do you want to know? PETER Oh, there's no hurry. So Maria is in Italy. Where abouts?
arthur		She's in Lake Como someplace.
peter		Well, there are some great hotels in Lake Como. Is she at the Excelsior?
peter		I'd like to talk to her, too. If I could. If I could get in                        * touch with her...                                    * 
arthur		They think this is the way you stop an airplane. 
peter		I think you'd better call someone.
peter		What?
peter		Mrs. Ruskin? MARIA Yes?
peter		My name is Peter Fallow. I just wanted to offer my sympathy. MARIA  How very kind. Did you know Arthur? PETER Ah, well, yes. I was actually quite close to him when he died. MARIA I've reprobated myself over and over again for being away...
peter		You shouldn't.
maria		Well, thank you for the kind words. I must go now.
peter		Yes. Just one other thing. I understand you're a friend of Sherman McCoy.
maria		I'm sorry...? 
maria		Sherman would never tell you that.
peter		I was hoping you might tell me exactly what happened that night.
maria		Look, Mr.... Mr.... PETER Fallow. MARIA ... Peckerhead. I am here for my husband's funeral. Understand? Now go away. Disappear. Disintegrate. She gets into the car.     Fallow watches the car pull away. He smiles. 259    OMITTED                                                        259 259A   EXT. HOSPITAL - NEWSSTAND - DAY                              259A
fox		What kind of muckracking yellow journalist are you!? You print a story like this without so much as a by-your-leave to me or to Reverend Bacon here! Who the hell do you think you are.
fox		So what?! So what?!   So what?! This is our case.
fox		Right here. You see? It's the hospital that's the guilty party. PETER The hospital?! What are you talking about? FOX A young man comes in here with a cerebral concussion and they treat him for a broken wrist. That is our case! That is the lawsuit that we are going to bring against this hospital. That is what we have been working toward all this time. And you are confusing the issue! Do you understand me?!
peter		Alright, alright. But Christ, Albert, this is a great story. This is my exclusive. And it's also the truth! BACON It's a little late for you to start telling the truth, isn't it, Pete? PETER I can't just drop this now.   I can't just let it go.
bacon		That's right. You're our boy, Peter. You take care of us and we'll take care of you. I promise you, that's going to be a very profitable relationship for all of us. Suddenly, Annie starts to weep.
bacon		Annie, I know that nothing can heal the wound that you have suffered. But ten million dollars in damages will certainly make your grief more comfortable. ANNIE Well, yes, I could use a few things, Reverend, thank you. I been worried about my clothes for instance. I feel that the presentation of my person should be carefully designed. As a model to black mothers everywhere, I think I should have the right wardrobe. So if you could have Mr. Fox's limousine pick me up in the morning, I could do some shopping.
fox		Why certainly. ANNIE I'll need some furniture, too. And a new refrigerator. And although I should probably continue to live in that shithole of an apartment at least until after the lawsuit is settled, I would like to start looking now for a co-op in Manhattan -- for me and my son -- something with a view of the river and preferably in a neighborhood that is at least upwardly mobile. Pause as they all look at her.
weiss		Shut up, you asshole.
kramer		Yes, sir. 
andriutti		I think we better talk to this Mrs. Ruskin. WEISS You go to the press. You tell them we're going to question the woman, and if she is the woman who was in the car, she faces possible charges, etcetera, etcetera.
andriutti		Alright. WEISS And you, Mr. Wise-Guy-Know-It-All- Shitface, you're the one got us into this, you're going to get us out. You go to this broad, you tell her she's in a whole lot of trouble, lay it on. But, but, but -- if she is willing to cooperate, if she will say what we want her to say, then we will grant her immunity. KRAMER Yes, sir. WEISS Go on, go.   What are you waiting for?
kramer		Well today is her husband's funeral.                     *
weiss		 I don't care if today is her                             * mother's bar mitzvah, you go talk                        * to her!!!                                                *
leach		Yeah? PETER I understand you been doing some creative wiring in this building. Peter and Leach continue talking.
sherman		That's us! That's me! That's Maria! How did you get this? 
sherman		What do you mean, 'my tape'?
killian		Well, if you were wired and you recorded your own conversation that would be okay. But there is no way that this tape can be used as evidence in a court of law.
sherman		Then what good is it?
sherman		An idea about what?
killian		An idea about what to wear when you go to this funeral. SHERMAN What funeral? 263    OMITTED                                                          263
maria		I see. Well, here we are, Sherman. The couple that all New York is talking about. And we're not even a couple anymore.
maria		Oh, Sherman. Would I do that to you? Sherman, Sherman, Sherman. She embraces him, her hands moving toward the hidden recorder. Sherman takes both her hands and pulls them to his chest. MARIA What are we going to do with you?
sherman		You have to help me, Maria. MARIA But how can I help you? SHERMAN Well, I know this may sound like a strange request, but you could start by telling the police what really happened.
maria		Oh, Sherman, you are the sweetest thing. But I'm not sure anybody knows what really happened. Not anymore. And if anybody does know, it certainly isn't me. SHERMAN But you were driving the car that night. MARIA Was I? I don't remember. Isn't it funny how a little thing like that can slip your mind?  God, there's something about funerals that is so stimulating. My panties have been wet all morning.
sherman		Maria, please... She kisses him again.
director		And now, in accordance with the wishes of Mr. Ruskin...
maria		Sherman.   What's wrong with you?
sherman		Nothing. MARIA Then why are you all hunched over? Her hands slide down his back.
sherman		Maria, we have to talk. MARIA Sherman, what's this on your back?
sherman		My what? 
maria		You don't have a belt buckle in the back. There's some sort of subterfuge afoot here. Isn't there? SHERMAN Don't be silly.
maria		You are secreting something on your body! SHERMAN Maria...
maria		I want to see what it is. She rips open his shirt.
sherman		Maria, are you crazy! MARIA And a wire!    A wire! She pulls the wire. Sherman yelps in pain. As he spins around, Maria grabs the tapedeck and pulls it off his back. More pain. SHERMAN Eeeooowww!!!
maria		You rotten, dishonest bastard!
sherman		Maria, I didn't want to do this, but you gave me no choice. A KNOCK at the door.       They freeze.
maria		My, my, my, Mr. McCoy. I'd say your goose was just about home- fried.
sherman		 I have protected you, Maria. I have been a gentleman. I have done my best to keep your name out of this. But you have got to help me. You have got to do the right thing. MARIA Never. Never. Never. I hope you die and hang in the electric chair! Sherman heads out the back door. 276   INT. HALLWAY - KRAMER - DAY                                    276
kramer		... I'm with the District Attorney's office. I wonder if I might have a few words...
maria		He just ran out that back door.
maria		Sherman McCoy!
maria		I'm sorry if I alarmed you.    But he was acting very strange.    My name is Maria Ruskin.
kramer		Kramer, Jed Kramer, Jed. I'm                               * the Assistant District Attorney for Bronx County. MARIA Oh. I see. And what a handsome District Attorney you are, too.
sherman		I mean, I'm not going to get, at this late date, I'm not going to get the ethics and morality speech, not now, when I have to                          * do what I'm going to do in that                          * courtroom tomorrow, if that's what                       * you've come to give me, Jesus...                         * MR. McCOY No. No. I'm sorry. I came here to... I don't know how to do this. You didn't call. We wanted to help. I came here to tell you that we are here for you. That you are our son and that we love you. 'We.' I don't mean we. I mean I. That I love you. That's all. Mr. McCoy offers his hand in a handshake. MR. McCOY Please. Sherman takes his hand. Mr. McCoy puts his arm around him and hugs him awkwardly but effectively. They separate. MR. McCOY Well.   What you want to do?                             *
sherman		There's only one thing I can do.                         * I want to see the truth come out                         * and burn every one of them. And                          * there's only one way to do that.                         * 
sherman		Lie.
sherman		Yes? MR. McCOY And yet, if the truth won't set you free, yes. Why not? Lie. DISSOLVE TO: 281   INT. COURTROOM - JUDGE WHITE - DAY                              281 is banging his gavel, trying to silence the overflowing courtroom. 282   ANGLE - STATUE OF BLIND JUSTICE                                 282 Some demonstrators are climbing on the statue to get a better view. 283   ANGLE - MARIA                                                   283
kramer		Finally, one last question. Can you tell us, Mrs. Ruskin, who was driving the car when Henry Lamb was hit? MARIA Why, Sherman never let anyone drive his car. KRAMER Sherman McCoy was driving the car. MARIA Oh, yes. A roar goes up from the crowd. 284   VARIOUS ANGLES - EVERYONE                                      284 Sherman and Killian at the defense table. In the audience, Bacon, Fox, Gerald Moore, Weiss and finally Peter Fallow taking notes. PETER  And there it was. The end of Sherman McCoy. And it wasn't the                        * ending I was hoping for. He was                         * finished. She might as well have put a gun to his head and pulled the trigger. There was no hope now. The darkness closed in around him. And then I noticed the most peculiar thing. Sherman was smiling.
kramer		You were surprised? MARIA I was shocked. There are certain qualities of virtue that I admire in a human being, virtues that I hope I possess myself...
demonstrators		Justice. We want justice!!!   We want justice!!! JUDGE WHITE                                * Justice! You want justice?!   I'll give you justice! Finally, the courtroom goes quiet. White looks around.                * Everyone is quiet. And then a single VOICE rings out... VOICE You racist pig!
judge		I'll tell you what justice is not. Justice is not the will of the few and it's not the will of the many. Justice is not politics. Justice is the law. And the law is man's feeble attempt to set down the principles of decency. Decency! And decency is not a deal. Or an angle, or a contract, or a hustle or a campaign or a trick or a bid for sympathy. Decency is not the beast that bays for money, power, dominion, position, votes and blood! Decency is what your mother taught you! Decency is in your bones! Do I make myself clear! Now go home. Go home now. Be decent people. Be decent. A moment of quiet as White comes down and faces Sherman. JUDGE You're free to go, Mr. McCoy. 289   ANGLE - COURTROOM                                            289 as another blood-curdling roar goes up from the crazed mob. They close in on the Judge and Sherman. 290   ANGLE - REVEREND BACON                                       290
kramer		We're not finished with you, McCoy. You'll be back in this courtroom. This decision will be appealed until I see you behind bars! You hear me, Judge. JUDGE Get your fucking face out of my way. KRAMER This fucking face is going to see you shining shoes in Grand Central Station. More pushing until...
bacon		Sherman McCoy! You shall not escape. You shall live in fear on this island, in the mighty sea of people, for the people -- and justice -- are waiting for you! Sherman whacks Bacon. The choir women start to wail. Fox approaches Sherman offering his card.
fox		You've been woefully misrepresented here, Mr. McCoy. I think you should give me a call... Sherman whacks Fox with the sword and continues down the corridor with the Judge. 296B   ANGLE - WEISS                                              296B giving an interview for a TV news team.
weiss		... and I promise you and the people of this city that Henry Lamb will not be forgotten. Henry Lamb will live, like the Alamo, as a symbol of slaughtered innocence.
peter		Oh, sorry. I'm Peter Fallow.      I'm Peter Fallow. Ha. Ha. Ha.
sherman		Are you alright?
judge		I'm alright.   Damn hooligans. He walks up to the iron gates. The faces of the demon- strators are pressed against it. The Judge shakes a tired fist at them. Then he turns to Sherman. JUDGE And you. You, too. You go home now. And be decent. You hear me? SHERMAN I hear you, Your Honor.
****Dialogues from script :Bonnie_and_Clyde.txt****

bonnie		Hey, boy!  What you doin' with my mama's car?
bonnie		Wait there!
bonnie		 Ain't you ashamed?  Tryin' to steal an old lady's automobile.
clyde		 I been thinkin' about buyin' me one.
bonnie		Bull.  You ain't got money for dinner, let alone buy no car.
clyde		 Now I got enough money for cokes, and since it don't look like you're gonna invite me inside--
bonnie		You'd steal the dining room table if I did.
clyde		 Come to town with me, then.  How'd that be?
bonnie		 Goin' to work anyway.
clyde		Goin' to work, huh?  What do you do?
bonnie		None of your business.
clyde		 No...A lady mechanic?...No...A maid?--
bonnie		 What do you think I am?
clyde		 A waitress.
bonnie		 What line of work are you in?  When you're not stealin' cars?
clyde		 I tell you, I'm lookin' for suitable employment right at the moment.
bonnie		What did you do before?
clyde		 I was in State Prison.
bonnie		State Prison? 
clyde		Yeah.
bonnie		 Guess some little old lady wasn't so nice.
clyde		 It was armed robbery.
bonnie		 My, my, the things that turn up in the driveway these days.
clyde		What do y'all do for a good time around here, listen to the grass grow?
bonnie		Guess you had a lot more fun up at State Prison, huh?
clyde		 I chopped two toes off of it.  With an axe.
bonnie		 What?  Why?
clyde		To get off the damn work detail, that's why.  Want to see?
bonnie		 I surely don't intend to stand here and look at your dirty feet in the middle of Main Street.
bonnie		Boy, did you really do that?
clyde		Yeah.
bonnie		You must be crazy.
bonnie		What's it like?
clyde		Prison?
bonnie		 No, armed robbery.
clyde		 It's...I don't know...it isn't like anything.
bonnie		 Hah!  I knew you never robbed bo place, you faker.
bonnie		 Yeah, well you got one all right, I guess...but you wouldn't have the gumption to use it.
clyde		 You just keep your eyes open.
bonnie		Hey, what's your name, anyway?
clyde		 Clyde Barrow.
bonnie		 Hi, I'm Bonnie Parker.  Please to meet you.  EXT. ROAD.  DAY.  VROOM!  The car zooms off down the road, doing 90.  The fast country breakdown music starts up on the sound track, going just as fast as the car.  EXT. CAR.  DAY.  The car, still speeding, further down the road.  We zoom down and look in the rear window.  CLYDE is driving, we see from behind.  BONNIE is all over him, biting his ear, ruffling his hair, running her hands all over him--in short, making passionate love to him while he drives.  The thrill of the robbery and the escape has turned her on sexually.  EXT. CAR.  ANOTHER ANGLE.  DAY.  The camera pulls back and above the car.  The car starts to go crazy in a comical fashion, manifesting to the audience just what is happening to the driver controlling it.  The car swerves all over the road.  The car comes to a sudden halt.  The car starts again.  It swerves this time almost right off the road before it straightens out.  It jumps and jerks.  Another car comes down the road the other way and CLYDE's car swerves so much as to make the other guy drive right off the road into the dirt.  It is almost Mack Sennett stuff, but not quite that much.  INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY.  BONNIE grabs the wheel and turns it sharply.  EXT. CAR.  DAY.  It hairpins off the road onto a shoulder beneath some trees.  INT. CAR.  BONNIE AND CLYDE.  DAY.  --still settling to a stop.  BONNIE and CLYDE appear to be necking heavily now, punctuated by BONNIE's squeals of passion as she squirms and hops about like a flea, trying to get to CLYDE.  The floor gear-shift is keeping their bodies apart, however.  In exasperation, BONNIE takes the gear shift and shoves it forward out of their way.  She plunges onto CLYDE, burying him from view. 
bonnie		 ...You ready?...
clyde		 ...Hey, wait...
bonnie		 Aren't you ready?  Well, get ready!
bonnie		 C'mon, honey, c'mon, boy...let's go...let's...
clyde		 I said, cut it out!
bonnie		 Boy...boy...boy...
clyde		 Boy, what?
bonnie		Your advertising is dandy.  Folks'd just never guess you don't have a thing to sell.  You better take me home, now.
clyde		 Wait!
bonnie		Don't touch me!
clyde		 If all you want's stud service, then get on back to West Dallas and stay there the rest of your life!
clyde		But you're worth more'n that, a lot more, and you know it, and that's why you come along with me.  You could find a lover boy on every corner in town and it doesn't make a damn to them whether you're waiting on tables or picking cotton, so long as you cooperate. But it does make a damn to me!
bonnie		 Why?
clyde		Why?  Because you're different! You're like me and you want different things.
clyde		 You and me travelin' together, we could cut clean acrost this state, and Kansas, too, and maybe dip into Oklahoma, and Missouri or whatnot, and catch ourselves highpockets and a highheeled ol' time.  We can be somethin' we could never be alone. I'll show you...when we walk into the Adolphus Hotel in San Antone', you wearin' a silk dress, they'll be waitin' on you and believe me, sugar, they're gonna know your last name.
bonnie		When'd you figure that all out?
clyde		First time I saw you.
bonnie		How come?
clyde		 'Cause you may be the best damn girl in Texas.
bonnie		Who are you, anyway?
clyde		 I'll tell you about you.
clyde		Lessee...You were born somewheres around East Texas...got a big old family, right?...You went to school, of course, but you didn't take to it much 'cause you was a lot smarter than everybody else anyway.  So you just quit.  Now...  ...When you were sixteen...no, seventeen, there was a guy who worked in...uh...
bonnie		 Cement plant--
clyde		Right.  Cement plant.  And you liked him 'cause he thought you was just as nice as you could be.  You almost married that guy, but then...you thought, no, you didn't think you would.  So you got your job in the cafe...  And every morning you wake up and you hate it.  You just hate it. And you get down there and you put on your white uniform--
bonnie		 Pink.
clyde		And the truck drivers come in to eat greasy burgers and they kid you and you kid them back, but they're stupid and dumb, boys with big tattoos all over 'em, and you don't like it...And they ask you for dates and sometimes you go...but you mostly don't, and all they ever try is to get into your pants whether you want to or not...and you go home and sit in your room and think, when and how will I ever get away from this?...And now you know.
clyde		 Change that.  I don't like it.
clyde		God, you're a knockout.
bonnie		Hey, that ain't ours.
clyde		Sure it is.
bonnie		But we came in this one.
clyde		Don't mean we have to go home in it.
bonnie		Clyde...
bonnie		 Clyde...
clyde		Hey, lady.
bonnie		 Where you been keeping yourself?
clyde		Slept out by the car.
bonnie		Oh...These accommodations ain't particularly deluxe.
clyde		No...If they're after us, I want the first shot.  Come on, you got some work to do.
bonnie		You're good.
clyde		The best.
bonnie		And modest...
clyde		Come on.  Got you all set up over here.
clyde		Set her spinnin'.
clyde		Again.  Come down slow with it...
clyde		Ain't you something?  I tell you I'm going to get you a Smith and Wesson, it'll be easier in your hand.  Now try it again once...
farmer		Heighdo.
farmer		 No sir...no sir.  You all go right ahead.
farmer		 Used to be my place.  Not any more. Bank took it.
farmer		Yessir, moved us off.  Now it belongs to them. 
bonnie		Well, that's a pitiful shame.
farmer		 You're damned right, ma'm.
farmer		 Me and him put in the years here. Yessir.  So you all go right ahead. We just come by for a last look.
farmer		You all mind?
farmer		Hey, Davis!  Come on over here.
farmer		 Much obliged.
farmer		Otis Harrison.  And this here's Davis.  We worked this place.
clyde		 Miss Bonnie Parker.  And I'm Clyde Barrow.
clyde		 We rob banks.
clyde		You just stay in the car and watch and be ready.  You just be ready if I need you.
clyde		Scared?
bonnie		No.
clyde		What are you thinkin' about?
bonnie		Nothin'.
bonnie		What are you waitin' for?
clyde		 This is a stickup.  Just take it easy and nothin' will happen to you. Gimme the money.
teller		 Heighdy.
clyde		 Gimme the money!
teller		What money?  There ain't no money here, mister.
clyde		 What do you mean there ain't no money?  This here is a bank, ain't it?
teller		This was a bank.  We failed three weeks ago.
clyde		 What?  What??
clyde		 Tell her!  Tell her!
teller		 As I was tellin' this gentleman, our bank failed last month and ain't no money in it.  I sure am sorry.
clyde		Keep it running.
clyde		Give me a loaf of bread, a dozen eggs and a quart of milk.
clyde		This is a stickup.  I'll take all the money in that drawer now.
clyde		Get the hell out of here!
clyde		Damn him, that big son of a bitch... He tried to kill me... I ain't got eyes in back of my head... I didn't want to hurt him.  It wasn't a real robbery... Some food and a little bit of dough.  I'm not against him. Damn!
clyde		What was wrong, anyway?
clyde		You just blowed it away.
bonnie		Well...I'm not sure...  Say, them little red things there stickin' up?  Are they gas pumps?
bonnie		Isn't that interesting?  How does that there gasoline get in my little old car?
bonnie		My, you're a smart fellow.  You sure know a lot about automobiles, don't you?
bonnie		Well, would you know what kind of a car this is?
bonnie		No, no.
bonnie		No, this is a stolen Chevrolet 8- cylinder coupe.
clyde		 You a good driver, boy?
clyde		 No, I don't think so.  He's better off here...
bonnie		What's your name, boy?
bonnie		What's the C.W. for?
bonnie		I'm Miss Bonnie Parker and this is Mr. Clyde Barrow.   We... rob... banks. 
clyde		 Ain't nothing wrong with that, is there, boy? 
bonnie		 No, he ain't the one.
clyde		Unless, Boy, you think you got enough guts for our line of work?
bonnie		Oh, a man with a record!
clyde		 Now look here, I know you got the nerve to short-change old ladies who come in for gas, but what I'm askin' you is have you got what it takes to pull bank jobs with us?
bonnie		Mr. C.W. Moss?
clyde		Prove it.
bonnie		 C.W., what are you doing?  Why do you do that?
bonnie		It's just disgusting, that's why.
bonnie		But...but it makes everything sweet!
bonnie		Clyde, why does he have to stay in the same room as us?
clyde		Lemme show you about tomorrow.
bonnie		Why?
clyde		Now C.W.'ll be waitin' right outside in the car.  Here is the teller's cage.  Four of them and over here the desks and what have you...
bonnie		Why, Clyde...
clyde		Hmmm??
bonnie		In the same room with us?
clyde		Hell, where else?  Ain't gonna spread out all over the state...
clyde		 Not yet, anyway.  Now, the door to the bank is here now.  You cover me from there.
bonnie		 Just that I love you so much.
clyde		You're the best damn girl in Texas.
clyde		 The layout for tomorrow up in Mineola.
clyde		So what?  We take U.S. 85 to Willis Point, don't you know, and cut over on State Highway 28 at Kaufman, keep on goin' till we hit the farm- to-market road that connects to 105 and that's right up by Mineola.  On a Saturday afternoon...
clyde		Keep it running.
clyde		 This is a stickup.
teller		What?
clyde		This is a stickup.
clyde		Let's go!  Let's go!
clyde		Come on!  Get it out!
man		Stop!
clyde		Boy, you gotta be poor in the head. You...!  Count of you I killed a man.  Murder...you too.
clyde		 Dumb ass stupid.
clyde		Ever do a dumb thing like that again, I'll kill you boy!
bonnie		Ssshh!  If you boys want to talk why don't you go outside?
bonnie		What do you think of me, C.W.?
bonnie		 Why'nt you come get it?
bonnie		 Whyn't you come get it, C.W.?
bonnie		 All right, I'll bring it myself.
bonnie		 You simpleton, what would you do if we just pulled out some night while you was asleep?
bonnie		That's right, C.W.  We'll always be around to take care of you.
clyde		 Bonnie, I want to talk to you.  Sit down.
clyde		 Look, I can't get out, but right now you still can.  You say the word and I'll put you on the bus to go back to your Mother.  'Cause you mean a lot to me, honey, and I ain't going to make you run with me. So if you want, you say the word.
clyde		 Why?  We ain't gonna have a minute's peace.
bonnie		Oh, pshaw.
clyde		 Bonnie, we could get killed.
bonnie		 Who'd wanna kill a sweet young thing like me?
clyde		 I ain't no sweet young thing.
bonnie		Oh, Clyde, I can't picture you with a halo, and if you went to the other place you'd rob the Devil blind, so he'd kick you right back to me.
buck		 "What a beautiful thought I am thinking Concernin' that great speckled bird, Remember his name is recorded on the pages of God's Holy word..."
blanche		All right, now you did foolish things as a young man, honey-love, but you went and paid your debt to society and that was right.  But now you just gettin' back in with the criminal element.
buck		Criminal element!  This is my brother, darlin'.  Shoot, he ain't no more criminal than you are, Blanche.
blanche		Well, that ain't what I heard.
buck		Now word of mouth just don't go, darlin', you gotta have the facts. Shoot.  Why he and me growed up together, slept and worked side by side.  God, what a boy he was!
blanche		He's a crook.
clyde		 Buck!
buck		Clyde!  You son of a bitch!
clyde		How's ma?  How's sister?
buck		Just fine, just fine.  Send their best to you.
clyde		 Hey, you're fillin' out there. Must be that prison food.
buck		Hell no! 
blanche		 Howdy-do.
clyde		 Howdy-do.  It's real nice to know you.
buck		 I'd like you to meet my wife, Blanche.
bonnie		 Hello.
blanche		 Hello.
clyde		Everybody, this is C.W. Moss. C.W., my brother Buck and his wife, Blanche.
buck		Hey, lemme get the Kodak!
clyde		 Hey, C.W., go put your pants on. We're gonna take some pictures.
buck		Y'all hear about the guy who thought Western Union was a cowboy's underwear?
bonnie		Lemme get one of my bride and my brother.
blanche		 Buck!  Don't take my picture now. I'm just a mess from driving all day.
buck		Oh honey, now you look real fine.
blanche		 Did you take my picture?  Oh Buck! I declare--
clyde		 Hey, Buck, get one of this.
buck		 Clyde, you do one of me and my missus.
clyde		 Let me take on of Bonnie.
bonnie		 Okay.
buck		 Hey, brother, let's you and me do a little talkin'.
clyde		 Here, C.W., take the girls' picture.
buck		 It was you or him, wasn't it?
clyde		Huh?
buck		That guy you killed.  You had to, didn't ya?
clyde		 Yeah, he put me in a spot, so I had to.  He didn't have a Chinaman's chance.
buck		But you had to--
clyde		Yeah.  I had to.
buck		 Don't say nothin' to Blanche about it.
clyde		Hey, that time you broke out of jail, she talk you into goin' back?
buck		 Yeah, you hear about that?
clyde		I won't say nothin' to Bonnie about it.
buck		I appreciate it.
clyde		Yeah...say, what d'ya think of Bonnie?
buck		She's a real peach.
buck		Boy, are we gonna have us a good time!
clyde		 We surely are!
buck		Yessir!  What are we gonna do?
clyde		Well, how's this--I thought we'd all go to Missouri.  They ain't lookin' for me there.  We'll hole up someplace and have us a regular vacation.  All right?
buck		No trouble, now?
clyde		No trouble.  I ain't lookin' to go back to prison.
buck		Hey, what's this I hear about you cuttin' up your toes, boy?
clyde		 That ain't but half of it.  I did it so I could get off work detail-- breakin' those damned rocks with a hammer day and night.  Sure enough, next week I got paroled.  I walked out of that god-forsaken jail on crutches.
buck		Shoot--
clyde		Ain't life grand?
buck		And the doc, he takes him aside, says, "Son, your old mama just gettin' weak and sickly layin' there.  I want you to persuade her to take a little Brandy, y'know, to pick her spirits up." "Why, doc," he says, "you know my mamma is a teetotaler.  She wouldn't touch a drop." "Well, I tell you what," the doc says, "why don't you bring her a fresh quart of milk every day from your farm, 'cept you fix it up so half of it's Brandy and don't let on!" So he does that, doctors it up with Brandy, and his mamma drinks some of it. 
buck		I give him a month's rent in advance.  We're all set.  Let's get inside.
clyde		Pull up and unload the stuff.
buck		 Honey-love, I'm taking you into our first home.
blanche		Oh look, it's so clean, Buck.  And a Frigidaire...not an icebox!
buck		He give me the grocery number.
buck		 Lemme see, eh 4337...Operator... please ma'm, may I have 4337...if you please?
blanche		Oh...they got linoleum on the counter.  Ain't that clever!
buck		Hello, Smitty's grocery...I'd like to order a mess of groceries.  Oh yeah...eh 143 Hillsdale Street. Lessee, about 8 pounds of porkchops, 4 pounds of red beans...a can of Chase and Sandborn...uh.
blanche		Oh, isn't this something, Daddy!
buck		Sshh.  Uh...quart of milk...uh 8 bottles of Dr. Pepper and that's it, I guess.  No...no.  Uh...a box of Rice Krispies...Bye now.
buck		Boy, you ain't never gonna beat me but you keep tryin' now.
blanche		Jest like an ol' man.  Plays checkers all the time and doesn't pay any attention to his poor lonely wife.
buck		Cut it out now, honey.  I'm gonna teach this boy a lesson he'll never forget.
bonnie		 Oh mercy me, oh my stars!
bonnie		 Oh, Daddy!  Yore such a slowpoke!
clyde		 Hush up a little.  They're in the next room.
bonnie		 Shoot, there's always somebody in this room, the next room and ever' other kind of room.
clyde		Oof!...now that ain't no nice way to talk about my brother.
bonnie		 I ain't talking about your brother.
bonnie		Honey, do you ever just want to be alone with Me?  I don't just mean like that...I mean do you ever have the notion of us bein' out together and alone, like at some fancy ball, or, I don't know, where we walk in all dressed and they announce us and it's fancy and in public, but we're alone somehow.  We're separate from everybody else, and they know it.
clyde		I always feel like we're separate from everybody else.
bonnie		 Do you, baby?
bonnie		 Quiet!  I'll get it.
bonnie		Who is it?
voice		Groceries, M'am.
bonnie		How much?
young man		Six dollars and forty-three cents.
young man		Here, M'am, them bags is heavy. Let me carry 'em up for you.
bonnie		 No thanks, I'll take 'em.
buck's voice		What was it?
clyde's voice		Quiet.  Open the door.
bonnie		C'mon, c'mon...
bonnie		 "We each of us have a good alibi For being down here in the 'joint'; But few of them really are justified If you get right down to the point. You've heard of a woman's glory Being spent on a downright cur'."
bonnie		You want to hear this or not?
bonnie		"Still you can't always judge the story As true, being told by her. Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare beauty, Though her features were coarse and tough--"
buck		Yeah, I knew her.  She was cockeyed and had a hare-lip and no teeth!
bonnie		"Now 'Sal' was a gal of rare beauty, Though her features were coarse and tough; She never once faltered from duty To play on the 'up and up'."
bonnie		 "Sal told me this tale on the evening Before she was turned out free, And I'll do my best to relate it Just as she told it to me--"
clyde		 It's the law.
bonnie		Dammit, you almost got us killed!
blanche		 What did I do wrong?  I s'pose you'd be happier if I got shot.
bonnie		 Yeah, it would of saved us all a lot of trouble.
blanche		Buck, don't let that woman talk to me like that!
buck		 It was a dumb thing to do.
blanche		 Please, Buck, I didn't marry you to see you shot up!  Please, let's go! Let's get out of here and leave. Make him stop the car and let us out!
buck		 Can't.  I killed a man.  We're in this now.
blanche		 Please!  Please!
bonnie		 Shut up!  Just shut up your big mouth!  At least do that, will ya, just shut up.
clyde		Cut it out, Bonnie.
bonnie		 Stop the car.  I want to talk to you.
clyde		 What is it?
bonnie		Get rid of her.
clyde		Can't do that.  She's Buck's wife.
bonnie		 Get rid of both of them then.
clyde		Why?  What's the matter with you anyway?
bonnie		She's what's the matter with me, a damn stupid back country hick without a brain in her head.  She ain't nothin' but prunes and proverbs.
clyde		 What makes you any better?  What makes you so damn special?  You're just a West Dallas waitress who spent half your time pickin' up truck drivers!
bonnie		 Only special thing about you is your peculiar ideas about lovemakin'--which is no love makin' at all.
clyde		Look, Bonnie--
bonnie		Clyde...honey...I didn't mean all that, honey.  Blame it on all that shootin', I just felt so bad...sure enough...Clyde?
clyde		Okay...Okay, hon...let's get movin'...
buck		 Hey, y'all, listen to this here: Law enforcement officers throughout the Southwest are frankly amazed at the way in which will-of-the-wisp bandit Clyde Barrow and his yellow- haired companion, Bonnie Parker, continue to elude their would-be captors.  Since engaging the police in a gun battle on the streets of Joplin Missouri and slaying three of their number...
blanche		Oh, Lord...
buck		...the Barrow gang has been reported as far West as White City, New Mexico, and as far north as Chicago. They have been credited with robbing the Mesquite Bank in the aforementioned White City, the J.J. Landry Oil Refinery in Arp, Texas, the Sanger City National Bank in Denton, Texas on three different occasions.  In addition to these robberies, the fast travelling Barrows have been rumored to have had a hand in the robbing of two Piggly Wiggly stores in Texas, and one A&P store in Missouri, though Chief Percy Hammond, who first identified Clyde Barrow's brother, Buck, as a member of the gang, expressed some doubt that these last robberies were committed by the Barrow Gang alone.
bonnie		Go on.
buck		 Hey now, here's something!  Listen here: Lone Cop Arrests Two Officers In Hunt For Barrow.  Police Officer Howard Anderson's heart turned faster than his motorcycle when he forced to the side of the road a roaring black V-8 sedan in which were three men and a blondheaded woman yesterday afternoon.
buck		When he saw several machine guns in the car he was certain he'd caught Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker, and maybe Buck Barrow and the third unidentified member of the gang. It took a lot of telephoning and explaining to convince the motorcycle cop that his captives were two highway patrolmen and a blonde-haired stenographer from the Highway Patrol--.  Haw!  Haw! 
buck		Anderson was held up as an example for every other Texas peace officer today. "That was a mighty brave thing," explained Highway Patrol Chief L.C. Winston.
clyde		Sheriff!
buck		Sweet Jesus, I never seen shootin' like that!
clyde		 Well, now, getta load of this.  I want y'all to know we are in the custody of Cap'n Frank Bryce, and Frank here is a Texas Ranger.
buck		Say there, peacemaker.  I believe you got your spurs all tangled up. You're in Missouri, you know that?
clyde		You didn't know you was in Missouri?
clyde		 Didn't you?
clyde		--Now you ain't hardly doin' your job, Texas Ranger.  You oughta be home lookin' after the rights of poor folks, not out chasin' after us.
buck		 Easy there, Clyde.  Why take is so personal.
clyde		 Reg'lar laws is one thing.  But this here bounty hunting, we got to discourage that.
buck		Like how, Clyde?--
bonnie		 --uh-uh.  Take his picture.
bonnie		 --and all bein' just as friendly as pie.
buck		 ...yeah, yeah...
bonnie		 --why we 'bout the friendliest folks in the world.  Texas Ranger waves his big ol' gun at us, and we just welcome him like he's one of our own.
clyde		 Buck, get the Kodak!
buck		 Hot dog!
clyde		 We're mighty proud to have a Texas Ranger in the family.
buck		...keep him set on the hood, there...more to the sun, like that...yeah...when all his ranger friends see this...I bet he's gonna wish he was dead!
clyde		 --don't make sense, do it?
buck		C'mon, now, Clyde, you and Bonnie first.  Move into him, right close, right friendly.
clyde		All righty  Don't move, now, hear?
bonnie		How's this? "Captain Bryce and new found friend."
clyde		...yeah, yeah...quick, Buck, get it...
buck		...I'm gettin' it, I'm gettin' it.
buck		 I got the picture.  I got the picture...
clyde		 Lemme be, lemme be...
buck		 I got the PICTURE!
clyde		...All right, all right...  WE GOT YOU...HEAR?... REMEMBER... YOU... YOUR FACE...WE GOT IT...WE GOT YOU...WE GOT YOU...WE GOT YOU...
clyde		This is the Barrow gang.  Everybody just take it easy and nobody will get hurt.
buck		Don't do nothin' silly now.
clyde		That your money or the bank's?
farmer		Mine.
clyde		Keep it, then.
clyde		 Next time I'll aim a little lower.
buck		Get a good look at us!  We're the Barrow boys.
buck		Happy birthday.
buck		 Kick it in the pants, C.W.
clyde		We got to make that state line!
bank guard		 Then he saw me goin' for my gun. Clyde Barrow himself, I mean.  And suddenly I was starin' into the face of death!
woman teller		Tsk, tsk.
photographer		Just look this way, Mr. Hawkins.
first policeman		Step on it, Randolph.  We gotta catch 'em 'fore they reach the state line!
farmer		Clyde?...he looked like, well he looked real...clean...and Bonnie, she's too much a lady ever to be caught with a cigar in her mouth...I don't care what you heard before. I saw 'em right here, not twenty minutes ago...  --and all's I can say is, they did right by me, and I'm bringin' me a mess of flowers to their funeral.
clyde		Okay, relax.  We're in Oklahoma now. Slow down.
first policeman		Turn around.  Don't waste no more gas.
second policeman		 Ain't we gone to catch 'em?
first policeman		Hell, they're over the State line. That's out of our jurisdiction.
second policeman		Why don't we get 'em anyway?
first policeman		I ain't gone to risk my life in Oklahoma.  That's their problem.
clyde		 Hell.  That ain't much, is it?
buck		 Times is hard,
clyde		Well, let's get to it.
clyde		This is Clyde Barrow.  Clyde, Buck...Bonnie...C.W. Clyde, Clyde again...Buck...Bonnie...C.W.
clyde		Bonnie...C.S....Clyde...
buck		 Um...eh...Clyde?
clyde		Hah?
buck		Uh, Clyde...well...what about Blanche?
bonnie		 WHAT?
blanche		Well, why not?  Say I earned my share!  Same as everybody.  I coulda got killed same as everybody, and I'm wanted by the law same as everybody.  Besides I coulda got snake bit sleepin' in them woods every night!  I'm just a nervous wreck and that's the truth.  And I have to listen to sass from Miss Bonnie Parker all the time.  I deserve mine!
clyde		 Okay...okay...hold your horses, Blanche.  You'll get your share.
buck		Married a preacher's daughter and she still thinks she's takin' the collection.
buck		 Well, don't spend it all in one place now, hear?
bonnie		She'll be doin' right well to spend it at all.
clyde		Bonnie?
clyde		 Look, Bonnie, I've said it and I guess I'll keep sayin' it before we're thru--Blanche is Buck's wife and Buck is family.
bonnie		 --she's such a silly-Billy...
bonnie		My family could use some of that money.
clyde		Them laws have been hangin' round your mamas house 'til all hours, Bonnie.  It's just too risky to go there.
bonnie		 Well, where can we go?  We rob the damn banks, what else do we do?
clyde		 I hear you, C.W.
woman		Oh, now...now, dear...
man		Mmmm...sweet thing...
woman		Say, isn't that your car, Eugene?
man		 That's my car!  Hey!
eugene		I'll tear 'em apart!  Those punks! Steal a man's car right out from under him!  Wait till I get my hands on those kids, Velma, I'll show 'em!
velma		What if they have guns, Eugene?
eugene		 We'd better get the police and let them handle this.
velma		Right.
eugene		Turn around and let's get back to town.  We'll go get the sheriff.
buck		They stopped chasin' us.  They turned around.
clyde		Let's take 'em.
velma		Oh, my Lord, they're comin' after us.
eugene		 Step on it, Velma, step on it!
clyde		C'mon, get out!  Get out of there, I said.
clyde		 Get in here.
buck		What's your name?
eugene		 I'm Eugene Grizzard.
velma		I'm Velma Davis.
buck		 Well, howdy!  We're the Barrow gang. That there is Clyde drivin' and I'm Buck.
bonnie		Look, don't be scared, folks.  It ain't like you was the law.  You're just folks like us.
eugene		 Yeah, yeah, that's the truth.
clyde		I expect you been readin' about us.
eugene		Yes.
velma		No.
eugene		 Yes, Velma, we have too.
bonnie		 Well, you two must be in love, I bet.
buck		 Well, when you gonna marry the girl, boy?
bonnie		So then she drinks her milk down again, every drop.  And she looks over at her son and says, "Son, whatever you do, don't sell that cow!"
bonnie		 How old are you, honey?
velma		Thirty-three.
velma		Now I ordered some French fries, didn't I?
buck		 Yeah, here you go.
clyde		Take it easy on those French fries, Velma.  Ain't that right, Eugene?
eugene		 This isn't mine.  I ordered mine well done.  Who's got the other hamburger?
eugene		That's okay, forget it.
buck		 Haw!  I sure am havin' a good time! How 'bout you folks?  Ain't you glad we picked you up?
clyde		 Hey, maybe y'all ought to join up with us.
eugene		 Ha!  Wouldn't they be surprised back home to hear that?
velma		Yeah.  What would Martha and Bill say if they heard that? 
eugene		Lordy!  They'd throw a fit! 
bonnie		 What do you do, anyway?
eugene		 I'm an undertaker.
bonnie		 Get them out of here.
clyde		 ...see anythin', Buck?
buck		--not yet, boy.
clyde		 ...C.W....?
clyde		 ...Well, where do you think she could've gone?...Buck?...Buck?
buck		 Jesus, I don't know...
clyde		There!  There!  There!
bonnie		Leave me alone!  Leave me alone!
clyde		 ...Hey, hey now...just where did you think you were goin'?...
clyde		 --Huh.  Bonnie?  Where?  Where?
bonnie		I don't know!  You're hurting me, I was just scared is all...and my mama's been on my mind, and she's gettin' so old...
clyde		Boy, don't ever leave without sayin' somethin'.  You really scared me, Bonnie.
bonnie		But I mean it, though.  I want to see my mama.  Please, Clyde.
clyde		 Okay, sweetheart.
sister		Here you are, we been cuttin' and pastin' everything we could find about you in the papers.
buck		Hey look, here's that one I took of you, Clyde.  That came out just fine!
buck		 Oh, Horsey! keep your tail up, keep yer tail up, keep yer tail up, Oh, Horsey! keep yer tail up, Why don't you make it rise.
bonnie's uncle		 Where y'all headed from here?
clyde		 I don't know, what y'all got in mind?  At this point we ain't headin' to anywhere, we're just runnin' from.
bonnie		Don't go yet, Mama.
uncle's voice		 C'mere, c'mere you little corn roller.
mother		...you know, Clyde, I read about y'all in the papers and I'm jes' scared.
bonnie		 Sugar, make mama stay a while yet.
clyde		 Now Mrs. Parker, don't y'all believe what you read in the papers! That's the law talking there.  They want us to look big so's they'll look big when they catch us.
clyde		--and they can't do that.  Why, I'm even better at runnin' than robbin' banks--aw shoot, if we done half the stuff they said we did, we'd be millionaires, wouldn't we, old sugar. 
mother		...Maybe you know the way with her, then.  I'm just an old woman and I don't know nothin...
clyde		We'll be quittin' this just as soon as the hard times is over, Mother Parker, I can tell you that.  Why me and Bonnie were just talkin' the other day and we talked about when we'd settle down and get us a home, and Bonnie said, "I couldn't bear to live morn'n three miles from my precious mother." Now how'd you like that, Mother Parker?
mother		Don't believe I would.  I surely don't.  Bye, baby.
buck		How long have ya had it?
buck		 Touch it, honey!  Go on!
blanche		 Oh, no, Daddy!  No!
bonnie		What are you all doin'?
bonnie		Well, why don't you all go play with it somewhere else?
blanche		What's bothering her?
clyde		 Not now, Blanche.
buck		 What's bothering her, Clyde?
bonnie		 I said go somewhere else!
clyde		 Bonnie's hungry, C.W. I saw a chicken place a few miles back. Who all wants to go get some food?
blanche		 I sure do.  I'm plenty tired of sittin' around here anyway.
buck		 You can't drive, honeylove.
clyde		Just five chicken dinners, and get somethin' for dessert.
buck		See if they got peach ice cream. 
bonnie		I hate you all.
clyde		I hate y'all, too.
bonnie		no, I really hate you.
bonnie		 Oh, baby, I've got the blues so bad...
clyde		Bonnie?...is it your mama, what your mama said?
bonnie		What mama?...she's just an old woman now...I have no mama...
bonnie		 ...so funny...I thought when we first went out, we were really goin' somewhere...but this is it-- we're just goin', huh?
clyde		Do you care about where we're goin'?
bonnie		Not as long as you care about me.
clyde		 Why I love you, sugar.
bonnie's voice		--enough to die with me, baby?... 'cause I think that's where we're goin'...I surely do.
clyde		--wherever.
blanche		 So what?
blanche		Oh, God...
blanche		 Oh, if I could!  If I could just do that one thing!  Oh, there's no tellin' why this all happened.  I was a preacher's daughter.
blanche		 Baptist...oh, and he thought the world of Buck, my daddy did, even knowing that Buck was serving time in jail.  He forgave him for that 'cause he paid his debt to society.
blanche		Hey, C.W., I ain't got my money. Give me some, will you?
deputy		 Get Sheriff Smoot on the phone.
bonnie's voice		Ready?
clyde's voice		 Aw Bonnie--
bonnie's voice		 C'mon!
bonnie		Lie down now, honey.
clyde		I've done enough!
bonnie		 You have to lie down...it's the only way we can tell what we'll look kike together.
clyde		 Whatta you think?
bonnie		 That's not the right tie!
clyde		What?
bonnie		 You can't wear polka-dots on an occasion like this.
clyde		Well what--
bonnie		Stripes.  Don't go away now.
bonnie		Perfect.
clyde		OK, o.k.  If we're gonna do this, at least I can tie it myself.  Lie down before you fall down.
clyde		 Better?
bonnie		Much.
bonnie		All right, shut your eyes now.
clyde		 No, you first.
bonnie		One for the money.
clyde		Two for the show.
bonnie		Three to get ready--
blanche		 The men are on the other side.
blanche		Oh, God, please help us!  Dear Father in Heaven, get us out of this and Buck will never do another bad thing in his life! 
blanche		My eyes!  ...light hurts so bad...
blanche		 Please, please get us to a doctor! Tell Clyde to get us to a doctor. We'll die here.
bonnie		 --here, hon'.
blanche		 Clyde, Clyde, please get us to a doctor.
blanche		He's your brother!
bonnie		 Buck can't be moved, now, hon'.
buck		 Clyde?...Clyde?...
clyde		Right here, boy.
buck		I believe I lost my shoes...maybe the dog hid 'em... 
man		Surrender!
blanche		Don't kill him!  Don't kill him! He's dying!
blanche		Don't die, Daddy.  Don't die!
clyde		 Saw...saw a farm...up ahead...gotta get...a car...
bonnie		Baby, no...
bonnie		Shhh!
bonnie		 Oh, no.
bonnie		 I can't die without Clyde.  I just can't.
clyde		Head out, C.W.
man		Who are you, boy?
man		 It's Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow.
boy		Who was they, Pa?
man		That was Bonnie and Clyde, the bank robbers.
malcolm		Who's there?
malcolm		Who's there?  Who is it?
malcolm		Clarence!
malcolm		God, it's good to see you, boy!
malcolm		What's that on your chest?
malcolm		Jesus, what happened to them?  You in trouble, son?
malcolm		Why'd you get yourself marked up? A tattoo!  What in hell made you do a damn fool thing like that?
billy		I was in the bunch that took 'er. See here?  Can you make me out? Here I am, see here, right behind Joe Boyd here.
pete		Sure enough, Billy, is that your head there?
billy		Still can't figure how we let them other two get away.
pete		 Yeah, seems as how nobody can get 'em somehow.
billy		 Yeah...well, maybe this boy'll be the one to do it, this Hamer guy. Boy if he can't do it, Sheriff, ain't nobody but the whole U.S. Army can do it.
pete		 You hear he quit the Rangers on account of Texas got that woman governor.  Said he wouldn't work under no woman.
billy		 Yeah, that's somethin' all right. Say, how many they say he shot anyway in his day?
pete		Sixty-five they say.
billy		Son of a sea-cook!
hamer		 Excuse me, am I in the right place? Is this Sheriff Smoot?
hamer		Hamer. 
clyde		 He was shot in too many pieces to pick off the ground!  Fled...what do they know, the papers or the police?...
clyde		Why, while we were all lyin' around here, near dead, they had us holdin' up the Grand Prairie National Bank!  They hung that one on us just for luck, I guess.
clyde		Tell you what.  Soon's we get well, we're gonna take that bank!
clyde		 They don't know nothin'--do they, sugar?
bonnie		 You did all you could, hon'. Nobody coulda done more.
clyde		 You can just thank your lucky stars that's all you are.  So long's they don't have your last name, you're home safe.
malcolm		 Mr. Barrow's lookin' out for your interests, boy.
malcolm		 Ain't that somethin' for me?
clyde		 Well now, you been real nice to us, and I tell you what, let us pay you forty dollars for your hospitality, what do you say?
malcolm		 No, no, no.  I don't want your money.  I'm just pleased to have your company.  Any friend of my boy's...
malcolm		 You're welcome here, now you know that.
malcolm		 You look like trash, boy, marked up like that.  Cheap trash.
malcolm		Bonnie, what does she know.  She's just cheap trash herself.  Look what they do to you, and you don't even get your name in the paper-- just pictures put on your skin, by "Bonnie and Clyde"--  --why they're a coupla kids.
malcolm		I'm just glad your ma ain't alive to see that thing.
hamer		 Blanche Barrow.
blanche		What?  What?  Who is it?
hamer		 You know your husband's dead.
blanche		 I know.
hamer		You're going to prison.
blanche		I know it.
hamer		Where's the rest of 'em?
blanche		I don't know.
hamer		Where's the rest of 'em?
blanche		I just don't know.  I don't know.
hamer		How'd you get in with them?
blanche		 And we run off, God, I was scared. And then it was run all the time, and I wanted to go, I begged to go, but Clyde and Bonnie and C.W.--
hamer		 C.W.  C.W. who?
blanche		C.W. Moss.
clyde		Want a ginger-snap, Bonnie?
bonnie		 It's real nice here, just the two of us like this.
clyde		 Look here, honey, remember this?
bonnie		Yeah, at the motel.
clyde		 You sure don't resemble that no more.
clyde		What you writin' this time?
bonnie		 I'm writing a poem about us.  I'm writing our story.
clyde		 Oh, are you?  Let's hear it.  If it's good, I'll mail it in to the Law and it'll be printed in all the papers again.
bonnie		Just let me finish this line.
bonnie		 Okay, here it is.
bonnie		 "The Story of Bonnie and Clyde"
hamer		The road gets dimmer and dimmer; Sometimes you can hardly see; But it's fight man to man, And do all you can, For they know they can never be free.
bonnie		If they try to act like citizens And rent them a nice little flat About the third night They're invited to fight By a sub-gun's rat-tat-tat.
clyde		 Damn!  That's me!
clyde		 In that poem!
clyde		 Right in the paper!
clyde		Jesse James!  You hear 'bout old Jesse, now you goin' to hear 'bout Clyde!
clyde		 Pshhhhhh!
clyde		 Damn, Bonnie!  You musta been one hell of a waitress!
clyde		 Oooooh, that Clyde!  That's my boy, that Clyde!
clyde		Bonnie...  The Poem of Bonnie and Clyde!
bonnie		 The Story.
clyde		The Story of Bonnie and Clyde!  Oh, child, you really did tell that story!
clyde		 Damn!...damn...damn!
clyde		 Hey, listen, Bonnie, how do you feel?
bonnie		 Fine.
clyde		I mean you feel like you're s'posed to feel after you've uh...
bonnie		Just.
clyde		 Well, that's good, ain't it. Reason I ask is, I uh... Well, I figger it's a good idea to ask.  I mean how else do I tell if I did it the way...
bonnie		 Hey.  You done just perfect.
clyde		I did, didn't I?  I mean I did, I really did.  I did it, I did, I mean this was my first time and it was just like rollin' off a log when it comes right down to it, it was easy, I mean I didn't even have to try...
malcolm		 Boy, they expect you to go downtown with 'em tomorrow?
malcolm		 Bonnie and Clyde.
malcolm		...better go then, you better go, better go...  --but when they get back in the car to come on home, don't get in with them.
malcolm		You just listen to your Pa fer once! Cain't you do that?  I'm yore Daddy, I'm your kin, not Clyde.
malcolm		 I made a deal and got you off with a coupla years!
malcolm		 And whatever you do, don't let onto them, hear?
malcolm		What do you think, Clarence?
malcolm		 Mebbe.  Just you be off'n the streets of that town when they go to get in their car.
clyde		 Bonnie?  Bonnie, will you marry me?
bonnie		How could I do that, Clyde?  You know it's impossible.  We'd have to go to a Justice of the Peace and the Justice of the Peace is a lawman.  We couldn't even take out a license.
clyde		 Hey now, you sound like you been givin' it some thought on your own.
clyde		 Bonnie...are you crying, honey?
bonnie		 Clyde, why do you want to marry me?
clyde		 To make an honest woman out of you.
bonnie		 Clyde...what would you do, what would you do it some miracle happened and we could walk out tomorrow morning and start all over again, clean, with no record, with nobody after us?
clyde		Well...I guess I'd do it all different.  First off, I wouldn't live in the same state where we pull our jobs.  We'd live in one state and stay clean there, and when we wanted to take a bank, we'd go to another state...and...
clyde		 Bonnie?
clyde		Hey, Bonnie?
clyde		 What happened to C.W.?
bonnie		He stopped off in that hardware store to get light bulbs for his daddy.
clyde		Boy, my feet are sweatin'.
bonnie		 You plannin' to drive with your shoes off?
clyde		Sure, why not?
clyde		Damn!
bonnie		 You gonna wear 'em?
clyde		Sure, drive with one eye shut.
bonnie		 Isn't that the prettiest thing, hon? Just look here, you can see every little fingernail on her hands.
clyde		It is a pretty thing, honey.
bonnie		We got any peaches?  I sure could go for a peach right now.
clyde		 Whyn't we do it tomorrow?
bonnie		Do what?
clyde		Tomorrow's Sunday, ain't it?  We could drive all night and be on that golf course tomorrow morning!
bonnie		You sure you feel up to it?
clyde		 Where is that boy?  He's gone too long.
bonnie		 You take a bite, hon.
clyde		 No, it's takin' too long.  What if something happened?
bonnie		Nothin' happened.
clyde		 Go take a look, see what's keepin' him.
bonnie		He ain't there.
clyde		C'mon, let's go.
bonnie		What's wrong?
clyde		I don't know.
hamer		Barrow!
****Dialogues from script :Boogie_Nights.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Book_of_Eli.txt****

eli		Dear Lord, thank you for your generosity in providing us today with this bountiful feast.
eli		Thank you for the many gifts that you have given me. Thank you for your protection and your guidance. Thank you for bringing me this far. I know my long journey's end is near. I ask now only for the strength and the courage to complete the task that you in your infinite wisdom saw fit to bestow upon me over all men. I won't let you down. Amen.
eli		Hey. You hungry?
eli		Come on now.
young woman		Oh. Please don't hurt me. Here, take anything you want. You want some food? Take it.
eli		I'm not going to hurt you.
young woman		That's what the last guys said.
eli		Here.
young woman		Could you help me? The wheel came off. I can't fix it. Maybe if I could get it out of the ditch. But I can't.
eli		One good thing about no soap any more. You can smell the road agents a mile off.
bandit leader		Dumb bitch. What did we tell you?
bandit leader		What you got there in the pack?
eli		Nothing.
bandit leader		Yeah, that's what they all say. How about you take it off real slow and tip it out so's we can take a look?
bandit leader		Shit, it ain't loaded. They never are. Ain't that right, old man?  Open the fucking pack or die.
eli		I can't do that.
bandit leader		Want us to do it for you? We can get it off real easy after we've hacked your fucking arms off.
eli		It's real important you boys listen to me and understand. The man I work for, you do not want to cross him. See, I'm under his protection. You stand in my way, you stand in his. And he will cut you down with a righteous fury - through me. For I am his faithful instrument.
bandit leader		What the hell are you, some kinda preacher?
eli		Something like that.
bandit leader		Well I got news for you, preacher man. Whatever kinda God you reckon yourself to be working for, he left these parts a long time ago. He ain't here to protect your ass. Now take off the pack and set it on the ground.
bandit leader		You fucking listening to me?
eli		I hear you. You lay that hand on me again and you will not get it back.
bandit leader		All right, I had just about enough of this shit...
bandit leader		What... you just... he just cut my fucking hand off! My fucking hand!
bandit leader		What you standin' around for? Kiss him!
eli		He's in shock. He means "kill him".
eli		I told you you wouldn't be getting that back.
bandit leader		Who are you?
eli		My name is Eli.
eli		Take it and go on your way. And don't fall in with men like these again. No good can come.
young woman		Why are you doing this?
eli		God, the father of mercies, through the death and resurrection of his son has reconciled the world to himself and sent the holy spirit among us for the forgiveness of sins.
eli		Through the ministry of the church may he give you pardon and peace, and I absolve you from your sins in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy spirit. Amen.
young woman		Thank you. You're... a good man.
eli		There are no good men on the road.
young woman		Where are you going?
eli		West.
young woman		Can... can I come with you?
eli		No.
eli		It ain't your concern. Stay on the path. It ain't your concern. Stay on the path.
eli		You got an engineer or a fuelman around here?
eli		Thanks.
engineer		I don't know you.
eli		I'm not from around here.
engineer		No shit. Who are you?
eli		I'm just a customer.
engineer		A customer with a shotgun?
engineer		You come in here to rip me off?
eli		No. I'll set it down. Okay?
engineer		Slowly!
engineer		You carry a gun in the outland, you don't bring one into town less you live there. Don't you know that?
eli		I'm sorry, I forgot. I've been on the road a long time.
engineer		Show me your hand.
eli		I'm not a-
engineer		I said show me your fucking hand!
eli		I'm not one of them.
engineer		What do you want?
eli		I'm just passing through. I need some help. I can pay.
engineer		What kinda help? And what kinda pay?
eli		I'm going to get something out of my pack. Okay?
eli		I know, I know. Slowly.
engineer		Holy shit.
engineer		Where'd you find this?
eli		Years ago, in the outland back east aways.
engineer		Does it work?
eli		Yeah, it just needs a charge. Can you do it? I got the cables.
engineer		Depends if you also got the coin.
engineer		It'll take a couple hours. There's a bar across the street you can wait, they just opened up.
eli		I'll wait here.
engineer		You don't trust me?
eli		 I don't know you.
carnegie		What is it?
redridge		Survey team just finished up their inspection. It ain't good.
carnegie		How bad is it?
redridge		Pressure is down again, and going by the new rod they sank levels're lower than they've ever been.
carnegie		How long?
redridge		Hard to say. Six months, maybe. A little longer if we're careful. But we're already-
carnegie		Halve the rations.
redridge		We just halved `em last-
carnegie		So halve them again!
redridge		You're going to have to say something. Folks were none too happy last time. Gonna be worse now, you can count on it.
carnegie		I want you all to remember how far we've come together. And how far we still can go, if only we believe. When I brought us here to this oasis - this promised land - we knew there would be hardships. Knew there would be sacrifices. But we also knew that we were creating for ourselves a world where we could be safe from the horrors of the forsaken lands beyond our borders.
carnegie		And I want you all to remember above all that it is not the water with which we have been blessed that is the true lifeblood of this town... but faith.
carnegie		It is our faith that sustains us, brothers and sisters! Hallelujah!
carnegie		And mark me, the ultimate validation of that faith is coming! The sacred Word of Our Lord that formed the world before and will reform it once again is coming to this town to bring it succor, bring it nourishment, bring it new life! For the Almighty Himself has spoken unto me and promised it!
carnegie		In the meantime, He has asked us all to be patient. To walk the hard road of the faithful just a little longer. And to do that, we must give just a little more.  Water rations will be halved until further notice.
carnegie		I understand your frustration. The road to salvation is a difficult one - but what lies at the end of that road is a greater glory, beyond anything you can imagine.
discontented villager		We've heard this all before! When are you going to-
carnegie		I know each and every one of you will understand the necessity of this action. It was faith that built this town - and faith that will sustain it even through the dark times that may lie ahead. But it is always darkest before dawn - and the new dawn is coming.  May God go with you all.
redridge		One of the road crews just rolled into town.
carnegie		Of course they did, the bar's open. Outlanders, always looking for answers at the bottom of a bottle.
redridge		Not these guys.  These guys say they got something.
carnegie		Get them up here now.
carnegie		Gentlemen! It's truly a delight to see you again! I understand your latest excursion into the outland has been a profitable one?
hog		We did good.
carnegie		Well, let's see, shall we?
carnegie		No. No. No. No. No.
carnegie		It's not here.
hog		These ain't worth nothin'?
carnegie		When you bring me the book I asked you for, it'll be worth something.
hog		We been doin' this a long time now. Had to make a whole lotta corpses to bring you all these books. You want us to keep at it, reckon it's worth more than a few free glasses of that swill you call liquor.
carnegie		Gentlemen, gentlemen. I urge you once again to take the long view here. When we find this book - and believe me, we will find it - we are going to build a new world. A world far greater, far more righteous than this one. And you and I are going to be perched right on top of it, looking down upon it, masters of all creation!
carnegie		And you know, I think you're absolutely right. 
carnegie		The book I want is out there somewhere, just waiting to be found. Once there were millions of copies - you only need to find one! Find it and bring it here. And I promise you, you will be rewarded beyond anything you can imagine.
hog		This better not be bullshit.
redridge		Might help if they knew just what they were looking for.
carnegie		Not one of them can read. How would they even know when they found it?
redridge		So how's about you just tell me?
redridge		Two years now you been sending these crews into the outland. Burning up gas we can barely spare. For a goddamn book? What the hell kinda book can be worth all this?
redridge		What about these?
carnegie		Put them with the others.
eli		What's this place across the street? They got any water?
engineer		We got our own underground spring here. Only fresh water in a hundred miles - if's you can pay for it.
eli		I'll be back.
eli		If that battery ain't here when I get back, I will use this gun on your kneecaps and I will put this building to the torch and I will watch it burn to the ground with you alive inside it. So help me God.
claudia		Is that you, honey?
claudia		Something wrong?
carnegie		More books came in from the road today.
claudia		Oh? It's been a while.
carnegie		And it'll be a while longer. Just another pile of useless junk. If we don't find the right one soon - if I can't give these people what they want to hear...
claudia		You'll find what you're looking for. It's out there somewhere. You just have to have faith.
carnegie		Faith? Is that what you think we're missing around here?
carnegie		My old man used to have faith. He had it in spades. My mother, too. 
carnegie		Faith is for the weak. It's for them out there, the sheep. This world is what you can see and touch and taste. It's what you make it. All these years with me, you still don't have any grasp of that? What's wrong with you, woman?
claudia		I'm sorry.
carnegie		No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to scare you. Hey. You okay?
carnegie		You just get me all riled up with that kind of talk. It's not what I need from you right now.  You know what I need right now?
bartender		Outlander? Let me see-
bartender		What'll it be?
eli		Water.
bartender		That's the good stuff. Gotta eat into my own ration to sell it - so I don't sell it cheap.
bartender		That'll get you maybe half-way.
bartender		What about that?
eli		That's the best I got.
bartender		Solara!
bartender		Take this out back and get it filled.
hog		That was my cat.
eli		Fine specimen.
hog		I saw you push him off the bar.
eli		I didn't push him.
hog		You raised your hand at him.
eli		Sorry. It won't happen again.
bartender		Hey, how about another drink, Hog?
hog		That cat's been comin' in here for nigh on two years. It got more right to be here than you. Who the fuck do you think you are?
eli		I don't want any trouble.
hog		Well, that's too bad, `cause-
eli		I know you. Murderer of innocent travelers on the road. You're going to spend eternity drowning in a lake of fire for the things that you've done. Did you know that?
eli		You go on back to your table and I'll be on my way. All right?
burly patron		You push Hog, you push all of us.
eli		Cursed be the ground because of you. By toil shall you eat of it. Thorns and thistles shall it sprout for you. From the ground were you taken. For dust you are.
eli		And to dust you shall return.
carnegie		Did you hear that? What was that?
claudia		Maybe you should go check.
carnegie		What in the hell is going on?
carnegie		Get your asses out here!
solara		Stop!
solara		Please don't.
eli		Go.
hog		 ...What?
eli		It ain't for me to judge you. Your time for that's gonna come. Believe me. Now go on. Get out of here.
eli		Thank you.
eli		I'm sorry for all the mess.
carnegie		So, who are you?
eli		Nobody. A walker in the outland.
carnegie		I've met walkers before. Not a particularly civilized bunch. Some have even taken to eating their own kind, did you know that? You wouldn't be one of those savages now, would you?
carnegie gunman		He ain't got the shakes.
carnegie		Good. This is a civilized town. Under God. Do you know what that means?
carnegie		It means we have laws here. Laws set down long before any of us ever walked this earth. And one of them is, you don't eat the flesh of your brother. Else you're no better than an animal. And not welcome here.
carnegie		So what's your business here, friend? Walkers don't usually come into town less they want something.
eli		I had a battery needed charging and a canteen needed filling. I didn't come here looking for trouble.
carnegie		Well, you sure as hell found it. Do you know who I am?
eli		No.
carnegie		My name's Carnegie. I own this bar. I own the whole town. You've never heard of me?
eli		That's you out there on the street.
carnegie		Remarkable likeness, isn't it? You'd never guess half the men who built it were blind. A small tribute from a grateful people. I was deeply touched.
eli		You had slaves build you a monument to yourself?
carnegie		Don't call them slaves. That's an old word. I'm not a slaver. I'm trying to help these people.
carnegie		In the outland the sightless are preyed upon like sick animals. Here at least they're protected. They do the essential work others don't want. And in return they eat, they drink, they survive. Last year, a couple of them even got married - performed the ceremony myself.  You see, I'm not exploiting these people - I'm saving them! Any one of them is free to leave whenever they wish. But here they stay. And they thank me every single day for their salvation!
eli		It's none of my business what you do here. Like you said, it's your town. I just want to be on my way.
carnegie		What's your name, walker?
carnegie		All right, I guess we just call you Walker. Don't see too many folks your age these days. You lived in the world before? You can read?
eli		I read every day.
carnegie		That's good. Good man. We educated folk, we need to stick together, if we're ever going to rebuild this world. People like you and me, we're the future.
eli		What do you want with me?
carnegie		Straight to the point. I like that. Fact is, you could be in a lot of trouble. This is a peaceful town. You walk in here, armed, and the next thing a dozen of my good citizens are dead. I've hanged men for less. I could hang you.  Or, you could come work for me.
eli		What?
carnegie		I never once saw anyone handle themselves the way you did down there in that bar. I don't know where you learned it, but I sure as hell could use it.
eli		I'm not interested.
carnegie		People who work for me can live better than any walker ever dreamed. Real beds, clean water, hot food. Women, even. You could do a lot worse, my friend.
eli		I'm not your friend. And I'm not staying. I got someplace I need to be. Out west.
carnegie		West? There is nothing west. It's all gone, a long time ago.
eli		I've been told different.
carnegie		By who?
carnegie		All right, look. I'm going to make you an offer of goodwill. Stay the night, think it over. Try a little local hospitality. We'll talk again in the morning. If you're still not interested, you're free to go. No hard feelings.
eli		Thank you for your offer. But I'd prefer to just leave right now. So you can either let me out of here, or I can kill my way out.
carnegie		Let him go.
engineer		Oh, shit...
eli		How's my battery?
engineer		It's, uh... it's gonna take a little longer than I thought.
eli		How much longer?
engineer		It's gotta charge overnight. You, uh, you can always stay here in town, pick it up in the morning.
eli		You remember what I said would happen if I came back here and you didn't have my battery?
engineer		It's right here! It's just gonna take a while longer. I swear.
carnegie		I knew you'd reconsider.
eli		Yeah? How'd you know that?
carnegie		None of the walkers I've seen come here from the outland were ever what you'd call smart. I mean all those years out there alone on the road, some with their brains half- fried from eating each other - it's understandable why you people aren't the brightest bulbs in the box. But I never met one so dumb that he'd turn down a meal and a bed if it was offered.
eli		So you didn't send someone across the street to the engineer?
carnegie		Engineer? I don't know what you're talking about. If there's something wrong, maybe I can help.
carnegie		This is Redridge. He's kind of my right-hand man around here.
carnegie		He'll show you to your room.
redridge		Enjoy your stay. There'll be someone outside your room all night. If you need anything.
eli		Hello?
claudia		I have this for you. Water for washing and some food.
claudia		Well... are you going to take it?
eli		Oh. Thank you.
claudia		You're very welcome.
claudia		It'll be dark soon.
claudia		Can I get you anything else?
eli		No, thank you.
claudia		Well. Have a good night.
eli		You're Carnegie's woman?
claudia		Why do you ask?
eli		Just making conversation is all. Haven't had one of those in a while. Not a real one, leastways.
claudia		He found me in the outland. I was sixteen, my family had been... well, they were gone. There was just me and my baby.
eli		You had a baby?
claudia		I'd met some men on the road. Bad men. They...
eli		It's all right.
claudia		I was on the road for a year after that. I couldn't feed myself, let alone my little girl. And then Bill found us and he promised he'd take care of us. He told me he was going to make a place where we could be safe. And he did. He did all that. He built this whole town. He kept us safe. And he raised that child like she was his own. He's been so good to both of us. He saved us, really.
eli		You want to eat some?
eli		When did you go blind? In the war? You get caught in a flash?
claudia		No, I was born this way. I think I'm lucky like that.
eli		Lucky?
claudia		It's not like I ever knew what I'm missing. I was already used to being like this by the time... by the time it all happened. So I got around pretty good even when I was on my own. And now it's easy. I know every creaky old floorboard in here, and it's not like I ever go any place else. Bill would never allow it. He worries about me so much.
claudia		I should go. He'll be wondering where I am.
claudia		Thank you. I enjoyed our conversation.
eli		So did I.
carnegie		You took your time in there. How long does it take to deliver a plate of food and some water?
claudia		He wanted to talk.
carnegie		Oh? What about?
claudia		Nothing really. He asked me what it was like to be blind.
carnegie		He tell you anything about him?
claudia		No. I don't think he likes to talk about himself much.
carnegie		Yeah, I got that.
claudia		I don't think he's going to change his mind by morning. I don't think he's going to stay.
carnegie		What makes you say that?
claudia		Just strikes me as the kind of man who's of a mind, is all. Doesn't seem like the type to go changing it once it's set.
carnegie		Well, we'll just see about that.
claudia		You saw him. He's not like the others. You won't be able to smooth- talk him and wrap him around your finger like you usually do.
carnegie		Who said anything about me?  I'm sending Solara.
claudia		You're doing what? CARNEGIE You know how often these walkers get laid? Never. Least not by anything living or willing. Girl like her can be very persuasive.
claudia		You can't send her in there with him. He's dangerous, he's a killer!
carnegie		You went in there readily enough.
claudia		That's different. Solara's just a child, she can't-
carnegie		She's a grown woman now, Claudia. Sooner or later you're going to have to accept that. She has to earn her keep around here, same as the rest of us.
claudia		By working as a whore? That's all you think she's fit for?
carnegie		We've each been given a talent to help us make our way in this world. Some people's gift is more evident than others. Solara's sure as hell is.
claudia		What kind of a man are you?
carnegie		I'm the kind of man who'd pull a helpless blind girl off the road, a girl who'd been beaten and raped, and give her a place where she can live without fear! Without me you'd be just another no-eye, lying dead in the outland, picked clean by the buzzards, or shoveling dirt down there with the others. That's the kind of man I am!
claudia		I don't live without fear. I haven't for a long time now.
carnegie		Where are you going?
claudia		I'm not going to let you do this.
carnegie		You're not going to let me?  Nobody tells me what I can and can't do in my own town. Nobody. I built this world, and I am God here! So don't go thinking about screwing with my plans. You know how this works. Solara goes against me, you get hurt. You go against me, she gets hurt.
carnegie		So let's not see anybody get hurt. Okay?
eli		Come in.
solara		Hi. Can I come in?
eli		Someone was already here with food and water. I got everything I need.
solara		You sure about that?
solara		It's too bright in here. Mind if I turn it down a little?
solara		That's better. I'm Solara. You're Walker, right?
eli		No. My name's Eli.
solara		That short for something? Elias?
eli		Elijah.
solara		Elijah. I never heard that one before. It's kinda cute.
eli		Look, I don't mean to be rude. But I'm really not interested.
solara		You sure about that? It gets mighty lonely out there on the road.
solara		If you're worried about money, this is all paid for. The whole night.
eli		It's not that. You're a very nice girl. But I'm not that kind of man.
solara		They're all that kind of man. He moves her hand away. Gently pushes her back a step.
eli		I'm not.
solara		They told me you were crazy. Maybe they were right.
eli		I'm sorry. Good night.
solara		Please don't make me leave. I have to stay the night. If I don't...
eli		If you don't, what?
solara		He'll hurt my mom.
eli		Who will? Carnegie?
eli		Maybe he and I oughta have words.
solara		No! Please, don't!
eli		He's hurting you. He's hurting your mother. He's-
solara		He's my dad.
solara		Look, if you want to help me, just let me stay here tonight. We don't have to do anything. I'll sleep on the floor. Tomorrow you can tell my dad that we had a good time. I'll be no trouble, I swear.
eli		You want to have a conversation?
eli		You know, you don't have to be afraid of me. What happened down there in the bar...
solara		I'm not afraid of you. I know you didn't start that trouble. When I first saw you, I knew you weren't the type to go looking for it.
eli		How'd you know that?
solara		My mom says I'm a good judge of character. She says I can read people. That I know a good man when I see one.
solara		So... you're pretty old, right?
solara		I'm sorry. I just mean, I haven't seen too many people your age. How old are you exactly?
eli		You know, I don't rightly remember.
solara		But you're old enough. I mean, you remember what it was like? In the world before?
solara		What was it like?
eli		Better than this.  People lived longer back then. Longer than me. Some were more than a hundred years old.
solara		Come on.
eli		I swear, it's true. Nowadays it's not the same. If you're sick or you're weak or you're old you won't last long out on the road.
solara		So how come you have?
eli		Can I read you something?
solara		Wait. You can read?
solara		And you have a book? ELI Not just any book.
eli		The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness.
eli		Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runs over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me, all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
solara		That's beautiful. Did you write that?
eli		 No.
solara		What book is it from? Is it poetry?
eli		I guess you could think of it that way. It's from the Holy Bible.
solara		I never heard of it. What's it about?
eli		It's about love, and forgiveness, and life and death, and mercy, and revenge, and the beginning and the end of the world. I guess it's about a little bit of everything.
solara		Can I see?
solara		What? I'm not going to do anything.
eli		I'm sorry. I'm charged to protect this book. I can't trust it with anyone. Not even for a while.
solara		What's so special about that book?
eli		It's the last one. There are no other books like this. All the others are gone - destroyed by the war or in the burnings that came after. This is the only one that survived until now. The last one anywhere.
solara		How can you know that?
eli		I just know.  For a long while after it happened, I just wandered on the road like most everybody else. There were still a lot of people around back then, in the beginning. I didn't really know what I should do or where I was going. I was just moving from place to place, trying to stay alive. And then one day I heard this voice. I don't know how to explain it, it's like it was coming from inside me. But I could hear it, clear as day. Clear as I can hear you talking to me now.
solara		What did it say?
eli		It led me to this place, I don't really know where. And I found this book buried deep under some rubble. No way no-one was ever going to find it if they didn't know exactly where to look.
solara		But you knew because the voice told you?
eli		That's right. And that voice told me to carry the book west. 
solara		 Because a voice you heard in your head told you to.
eli		I'm not crazy. I didn't imagine it. I know what I heard.
solara		So who was it? The voice?
eli		A very important, very powerful man.
solara		More powerful than my dad?
eli		 I should say so, yes.
solara		Would you teach me to read?
eli		What?
solara		I never learned. No-one around here knows how. Only my dad, and he won't teach me. I think he likes being the only one who can read. I think it makes him feel powerful.
eli		I think you're probably right.
solara		So would you teach me?
eli		I'm sorry. I'm leaving tomorrow. And I won't be back this way, ever.
eli		Are you hungry?
solara		I guess a little.
eli		There's some food on the table over there. Let's eat.
eli		It's okay, it's okay. He's with me.  Don't be afraid, pal. This is Solara. She's our friend.
eli		It's okay. It means he likes you.
solara		It does? ELI Trust me, if he didn't like you, you'd know about it.
solara		Did you really mean that?
eli		Mean what?
solara		That I'm your friend.
eli		Sure.
eli		Our father, we thank you for this meal which you have been so gracious to place before us.
eli		We thank you for a warm bed and a roof over our heads on a cold night such as this.  And we thank you for the gift of friendship in these hard times.
eli		Amen.  You say that last part too.
solara		Amen. And now we eat?
eli		And now we eat.
carnegie		Good morning, Solara.
carnegie		I said good morning, Solara.
solara		Morning, dad.
carnegie		How was your night? Did you sleep well?
solara		I did like you asked. Isn't that what you really want to know? Just come out and say it.
carnegie		You don't speak to your father like that. When I ask you a civil question, I expect a civil answer.
carnegie		Did he say anything?
solara		No. We didn't talk much.
carnegie		Well, do you think you managed to change his mind about staying?
solara		I don't know. He said he had to go.
carnegie		So he did talk? What else did he say? Come on, I want all of it!
solara		That's all he said. That he was going to be leaving this morning.
carnegie		We'll see. This is my town, nobody leaves until I say they leave.
claudia		Solara, honey, eat something.
solara		Our father, thank you for this meal which you have been so gracious to place before us.
solara		Thank you for my mother. Please watch over her and keep her safe.
carnegie		Solara...
solara		Thank you for all the-
carnegie		Solara! She snaps suddenly out of it, looks at her father.
carnegie		What the hell are you doing?
carnegie		God didn't put this food on the table. Do you hear me?  Who put this food on the table?
carnegie		I said who put this food on the table?
solara		 You did.
carnegie		Who taught you that?
solara		Eli taught me.
carnegie		 Who the hell is Eli?
solara		The walker. That's his name.
carnegie		And he taught you how to say those words? How did he know them?
solara		He had them written down in a book.
carnegie		What kind of a book?
solara		I don't remember! It was an old leather book. It had kind of a... thing on the front of it.
carnegie		Show me.
carnegie		He had a bible?
solara		That's what it was. A holy bible. Daddy, what's wrong? Did I...
redridge		Something wrong, boss?
carnegie		Something wrong? Something wrong? The walker's gone!
redridge		That can't be. I had a man outside his room the whole time.
carnegie		He jumped out the window, you idiot! You didn't think to put a man outside the fucking window?  Find him. Now!
redridge		Boss, he could be anywhere. He...  A battery. Didn't he say something about a battery?
carnegie		Go! Go!
eli		 It ain't your concern. Stay on the path.
eli		Dammit...
eli		Let her go.
carnegie		That cannon of yours casts a pretty wide net. I don't reckon you can hit me without hitting her.
eli		I reckon you're right.
eli		This, though? With this I'll shave the hairs clean off your balls at a hundred paces. You believe me?
carnegie		I believe you. I have to say I'm surprised to hear that language coming from you, though. I mean, you being a holy man and all.
carnegie		She told me all about it. Told me all about the bible, too.  Can I see it?
eli		No.
carnegie		You know, I've been searching for a book like that one for years. All I've ever wanted was to bring the word of God to these poor unfortunates here. To shine its light upon them and give them something in this wretched world that they could believe in. Something to live for! It's why I built this town, did you know that? All we've been missing is the word to show us the way. And now, praise the Lord, you've brought it to us.
carnegie		It's not right to keep that book hidden away, all to yourself. The word is meant to be shared with others. It's meant to be spread! Isn't that what you want? I could help you do that. You and me, we could do it together.
eli		The Lord himself told me that if I carried this book west, one day I would find the place where it was needed. Where it would be safe. Where it belonged.
eli		But this ain't it.
eli		Come on.
solara		What? What is it?
eli		You shall not make for yourself any graven image...
eli		Now we can go.
solara		Where are we going?
eli		I told you where I'm going. You're free to go wherever you want.
solara		Wait... I'm not coming with you?
eli		You're only going to slow me down.
solara		So what the hell was all that about back there?
eli		The man was hurting you. I don't like that, so I put a stop to it. Now you're free. He can't hurt you any more.  No need to thank me.
solara		Thank you? For what? What am I supposed to do now?
eli		Whatever you want. That's what being free is.
solara		Whatever I want. Except go with you.
eli		I have to get where I'm going. I can't be worrying about someone else along the way.
solara		I thought you were my friend.
eli		It's dangerous in the outland. I wouldn't want you to get hurt.
solara		I'll be safe so long as I'm with you. I know it.
eli		You don't want this life. I gotta do what I gotta do. Don't have no choice in it. But you do. And I can't let you choose this. You don't want to be like me. You don't want to spend your life alone.
solara		If I came with you, I wouldn't be alone. And neither would you.
eli		I'm sorry. Look, maybe it's best you just go on back to town.
solara		Fine! I'll do just that! I had a life there! A family! I didn't ask you to save me! I didn't ask you for anything!
solara		 Fine.
carnegie		Thank you, darling.
redridge		He killed four of my men and walked out of town without a scratch. They shot off a hundred rounds at him and he didn't get hit once. I never even heard of anything like that.
carnegie		You know, I always thought of myself as a shepherd. Bringing together the wayward and the lost. Tending to my flock. But all the things I want to do, I can't do them on my own. The one thing I've needed is the one thing that's always been missing. Then one day it walks right into town - so close I can almost touch it - and then walks right on out again.
carnegie		I want you to put a crew together and go out after him.
redridge		He's not going to work for you. I think he's made that plain.
carnegie		I'm not interested in him any more. I only want the book he's carrying.
redridge		If I'm gonna risk my ass hunting down this maniac in the outland, I need to know it's gonna be worth it. I need to know what's so special about this goddamn book.
carnegie		You have no idea. You're too young, you don't remember the world before. But I do. I remember.
carnegie		When I was a kid my parents used to read that book every goddamn day. My mother, she'd read it along with this smooth-talking preacher on the TV screen. They used to be able to beam these guys right into your house, into every house in the world, through the air. Like magic.  She worked two jobs and she sent every spare penny she had to that fucking guy on the TV. My old man, he'd read that book, then he'd get liquored up and kick my ass, tell me all about the power and the glory and how I was going to burn forever in hell for the sins I was born with. He made sure he beat it into me good.
carnegie		Don't you see? It's not just any book. 
redridge		Boss... we're running out of water and the people are running out of patience. You're trying to tell me that a book is going to keep them in line?
carnegie		Oh, it'll do much more than that. The water in this town may run dry, but faith - that springs eternal! And that faith will help turn this town into a city. And this city into a nation. It will help me build a new world. In my image. People will come from far and wide to hear what's inside of it. They'll follow me anywhere just to get a taste of it. And they'll do whatever I tell them.
redridge		And what if this book don't work? What if it don't say what you want it to say?
carnegie		Oh, it'll say what I want, I can promise you that. Because I'm going to rewrite it. I'll keep the parts that work for me and make the rest whatever I need it to be.  A new bible, for a new world.
carnegie		What do you think, darling? A whole new world, to do with as we will. Won't that be grand?
carnegie		Find that book.
redridge		He has half a day on us already.
carnegie		So use the motor pool.
redridge		There ain't much gas in reserve.
carnegie		Whatever there is, use it.
claudia		What about Solara?
claudia		She's still out there. With him.
carnegie		Right. Right. Of course. Bring her back, too, if you can. But-
redridge		The book. I know.
solara		Shit. Shit.
solara		Where the hell am I?
slumped female		Hello? Is anybody there?
solara		Are you all right?
young woman		Oh. Yes, I'm fine. Thank you. You go along, I'll be okay.
solara		You look like you need some help.
young woman		No, really! I'm fine. Really... I need a man to help. Not you. You just keep along. Please.
solara		It'll just take a minute.
young woman		Really, it's fine! Please!
young woman		Let her go! She ain't got nothing!
brigand leader		I ain't too sure about that.
young woman		This wasn't the deal!
brigand leader		Shut your mouth, bitch. You oughta be grateful you're getting a break.
brigand leader		Never did care much for that dried- up old snatch anyhow.
brigand leader		This one, though... this one looks fresh. You a virgin?
brigand leader		Well, let's find out.
eli		I offer you both one final chance in this life to seek forgiveness for your sins so that your souls may find salvation. Will you say with me the act of contrition?
brigand leader		Fuck you.
eli		Some might think it'd be most fitting to leave you here like this. Let you die slow in the sun. But I know better. I know where you're going. And the sooner you get there, the sooner you'll get what's coming to you.
rifle bandit		Wait!
rifle bandit		I want to say it. I want to be forgiven.
eli		Repeat after me. Oh God, I am heartily sorry for having offended thee, and I detest all my sins.
eli		I firmly resolve, with the help of thy grace, to confess my sins, and do penance, and to amend my life. Amen.
rifle bandit		Amen...
solara		You came back for me.
eli		What are friends for?
eli		This is the deal. You keep up. You pull your weight. You fall behind, I can't help you. Okay?
solara		Okay.
solara		What about her?
eli		There's nothing can be done for her.
solara		You killed it! That cute little thing!
eli		It's good eating, is what it is.
solara		That's not funny.
eli		If you're going to be on the road, you can't be picky about what you eat. You eat what's there to eat.
solara		I'm not eating that.
eli		 More for me.
eli		Father, we thank you for your generosity in providing us with this meal. Bless this food to our use and us to thy service, and keep us ever mindful of the needs of others. Amen.
solara		What does that taste like?
eli		Tastes like chicken.
solara		What is that?
eli		It's a Saint Christopher medal.
solara		Who's Saint Christopher? Is he a character from your book?
eli		Christopher was a man who lived a long time ago. He wanted to be a good man, he wanted to help people. So he would stand by a river that had no bridge and carry people across. He was a big strong man and there was no one he couldn't carry.
eli		Then one day a young child came to the river and asked to be carried across. Christopher tried to carry him but he was too heavy. He was just a small boy but he was heavier than any man he had ever carried. The boy explained that he was the son of God, and that he was so heavy because he bore all the sins of the world. After that, Christopher was able to carry him across and when they got to the other side the boy baptized him in the river. And that's how he became a saint. Later on, he was known as the patron saint of travelers.
solara		What is a saint, anyway?
eli		It's someone who spent their life doing good things for others. Enough that God himself took a special interest in them.
solara		Someone like you.
eli		No. Not like me. Saints ain't killers. And I done too much of that. Spilled too much blood.
solara		Will you read me some more from the book?
eli		It's late. You should get some sleep. Maybe tomorrow.
solara		Eli?
eli		What are you doing?
solara		You scared me! I thought you were asleep.
eli		On the road you sleep with one eye open. I asked you what you were doing.
solara		I just wanted to see the book.
eli		You want to see the book, you ask me. Nobody touches it but me. Ever. Until it gets where it's going. Do you understand?
eli		Tell me you understand!
solara		Okay! I understand! Ow!
eli		It's no use to you anyway. You don't know how to read it.
solara		Well... now we have the time, maybe you can teach me.
eli		Maybe. Get some sleep.
redridge		He's been here.
redridge		The girl's with him.
redridge		Move out!
redridge		I said move out!
carnegie gunman		I heard this guy's protected somehow, some... power from up above. That there ain't nothing on this earth can touch him.
redridge		He's just a man. You put a bullet in him, he'll go down like any other. I don't want to hear no more of this superstitious horseshit!
solara		You say you've been walking for twenty-five years. Have you ever considered that you might be lost?
eli		No.
solara		But how can you know? How can you know this is the right way?
eli		I told you. My path has been laid out before me.
solara		Yeah, but laid out by who?
eli		By Almighty God.
solara		Well if this God guy's so mighty, how come it's taking you so long to get where you're going? Doesn't he know the way?
eli		You want to stay on this road with me, don't ever let me hear you take his name in vain like that again.
solara		Sorry.
eli		God has a reason for everything being the way it is. It's not always apparent to us. But it is his plan nonetheless.
solara		So, is he talking to you right now? Telling you where to go?
eli		It's not like that. It's kinda hard to explain. I'm guided by faith.
solara		I don't know what that word means.
eli		It means you know something even though you don't know it.
solara		That doesn't make any sense at all.
eli		It doesn't have to.
solara		I don't get it. It looks almost... normal. Like nothing ever happened. How can it still be out here?
eli		I don't know.
solara		Maybe we should look inside. There might be food.
eli		Stay behind me.
solara		This is weird.
eli		Yeah.
eli		Shit.
solara		What?
elderly man		Who are you?
eli		My name is Eli. This is Solara. We're travelers, that's all. We don't mean you any harm.
elderly man		You cut my padlock. I saw you. Trying to break into our house.
eli		I'm sorry. We didn't think anybody lived here. We thought it was abandoned, like all the rest.
elderly man		Take a look around you. Look at this yard. Does it look abandoned to you?
eli		No, sir. I... like what you've done with the place.
elderly man		What's your business here?
eli		No business. We're sorry to have troubled you. If you'll let us down we'll happily be on our way.
elderly woman		George, look at them! They're not robbers or road agents! One of them's just a girl!
elderly man		Seen that before. Oldest trick in the book.
elderly woman		Oh, stop! It's no trick. Let them down!
elderly woman		I'm so sorry about my husband. We so rarely get visitors these days, he's suspicious of everybody.  I'm Martha and this is my husband George. Would you care for some tea?
martha		I'm afraid we don't have any cake or biscuits for the tea. They ran out some time ago.
martha		Please.
martha		How do you like it?
eli		It's.. uh...
solara		It's very good.
eli		Have you always lived here?
martha		For almost forty years now. This home is our pride and joy, isn't it, George?
martha		We refused to leave, even during the troubles. We said, didn't we George, we said if we're going to die anywhere, we're going to die right here, in our own home.
eli		I don't understand how you've survived out here this long.
martha		Well, George is something of a handyman, aren't you, dear? He did a lot of work on the place, making it safe. We may be old, but we're resilient. We've had more than a few who've tried to take this place from us. Haven't we, George?
george		Yes. Yes we have.
solara		Are these... graves?
martha		Of course. It would be uncivilized not to bury them. We're not barbarians.
george		Plus, it's good for the soil.
martha		Come on back inside. I think I might be able to rustle up some sandwiches.
eli		We have to get out of here.
solara		They look so sweet... I would never have believed they were killers.
eli		They're worse than that.
solara		What?
eli		They didn't just kill these people.  They ate them.
solara		They what? ELI There's a disease in the outland. Spread by eating human meat. It affects the brain. Dementia, loss of motor function. Did you notice the old woman's hands shaking? She's got it. They've both got it.
solara		Oh my God...
solara		No! Thank you!
eli		We really must be going.
george		So soon?
eli		Yes, I'm afraid so.
martha		Are you sure you won't stay?
eli		Yes. Thank you again for the tea.
solara		Oh no... it's my dad. It's his men.
eli		Are you sure?
solara		I recognize the cars.
eli		Back inside.
george		What did you bring upon us?
martha		George? What's wrong?
george		A whole convoy of armed degenerates, that's what's wrong! Coming here for them! And they led them right to us!
martha		Oh no they don't...
george		Martha, what are you doing?
martha		I finally got this house just the way I want it. I'm not going to let anybody tear it apart!
solara		Where did you get all this stuff?
george		Took `em off them who came looking to take the place from us. Built up quite the stash over the years.
george		You know how to fire a gun?
solara		My daddy showed me once.
george		Just like riding a bike.
solara		I never rode a bike.
george		How about you, you know how to-
george		Never mind.
redridge		We know you're in there! Come on out with your hands up and your weapons on the deck and nobody needs to get hurt.
redridge		All right, look. I'm gonna make it easy on y'all. Bring out the girl with the book.
solara		What are we going to do?
eli		Hand me my pack.
redridge		Holy shi...
redridge		Get down! Everybody get down!
redridge		Damn you, return fire!
martha		Come and get it, you god-damn sons of mother-fucking bitches!
eli		It's all right. We're going to be all right. Trust me.
eli		You remember what I told you about faith?
eli		We're going to get out of this alive. Both of us. I know.
solara		Because God told you?
eli		Because God told me.
george		What about us?
eli		He didn't mention you.
george		Martha? Martha!
redridge		We got any more of those RPGs?
redridge		Screw this.
redridge		Get clear!
eli		Solara?
eli		Are you all right?
solara		I'm fine.
solara		Oh God...
eli		Come on. We're going out the back. We're running.
redridge		Go ahead and try it, holy man. You ain't that fast.
redridge		Where's the book?
redridge		I ain't playing.
redridge		Check the pack.
redridge		It's gotta be.
redridge		Hello, what have we here?
redridge		Fuck! Get it off! Get it off me!
redridge		If you don't got the book, what fucking use are you?
solara		Wait!
solara		It's here! I've got it! Please don't kill him.
eli		Solara...
solara		It's just a book, Eli. No book is worth giving up your life for.
eli		You're wrong.
redridge		You did good, sweetheart. Your daddy would be proud. He knew you'd come through for him.
solara		He said he would hurt my mom. If I didn't help him.
redridge		 Daddy's little girl...
solara		I want you to let him go.
redridge		What?
solara		You've got what you came for. You don't need him. Let him go.
redridge		He's killed a dozen of my men.
solara		If you hurt him, I'm not coming back with you. You'll have to drag me kicking and screaming.
redridge		Take your shit and get out of here.
redridge		No weapons.
eli		I told you we'd both live. Now do you have faith?
driver		What the hell...?
redridge		Stop, stop!
redridge		Shit. Turn around!
driver		We ain't got the gas for it!
redridge		She's getting away!
driver		We got the book! And we got barely enough gas to make it back as it is! We can't go chasin' her!
redridge		Stupid little bitch...  Drive on.
solara		Come on, come on...
solara		No... No!
solara		Eli! Eli!
solara		Eli...
eli		Thought you'd gone back to town.
solara		I can't go back there. Eli, I'm so sorry.
eli		For what?
solara		For what? I betrayed you! I gave them the book!
eli		You did what you believed you had to.
solara		You're not mad at me?
eli		I forgive you.
solara		Here. I thought you might still need this.
eli		Thank you.
solara		What are you going to do now?
eli		Same as always. Keep heading west.
solara		Why? I mean, you don't have the book any more.
eli		But I still have my faith.
solara		What's that?
eli		It's grass. It used to grow all over the place.
solara		How come it's here?
eli		I don't know. Less poison in the air this near to the ocean, maybe.
solara		What's wrong?
eli		Nothing. Just a cramp.
solara		What?
eli		Do you smell that?
solara		Smell what?
eli		Salt in the air. We're close to the ocean. We're almost there.
eli		Come on.
eli		Watch your footing. Step where I step.
solara		This... this is the world before?
eli		What's left of it.
eli		Do you see that?
solara		I see it. Is that it?
eli		That's it.
alcatraz guard		Identify yourselves!
eli		My name is Elijah Stone. I have a message for your boss. I need you to tell him that I have a King James Bible in my possession.
alcatraz guard		Remain where you are! Do not attempt to move or you will be fired upon!
alcatraz guard		Be prepared to surrender any weapons at the gate!
soldier		They're clean.
thin man		Welcome, both of you. I'm Professor Lombardi. I'm the curator here.
eli		Elijah Stone.
solara		Solara.
lombardi		Solara. What a delightful name. Is that by any chance Shakespearean?
solara		I, uh, I think it's Japanese.
lombardi		Wonderful.
lombardi		Is it true what they tell me? You have a King James Version?
eli		Been carrying it with me for twenty- five years.
lombardi		My goodness. I can't tell you how exciting this is. Well, come, come! 
lombardi		Yes, we've been doing this for some time now. Collected over thirty thousand volumes from generous donors all across the nation. We even have a printing press that we hope to have operational soon.
solara		You turned the whole prison into a library?
lombardi		Well, not exactly. We're more like a storage facility. We're holding these books here in trust, if you like. When society gets back on its feet and no longer needs us to preserve these volumes, they'll be here waiting.  I must ask you, how did you hear about us? We've been doing everything we can to get the word out, but we always like to know where our benefactors come from.
eli		I was sent here by God.
lombardi		Is that right? Well, it's good to know we're getting such high- profile referrals these days.  I must say, I am so excited that we finally have a King James. You know, we have a Talmud here, we have two Korans, we even have that Scientology book. But never a Christian bible, until now. I honestly believed it was the one book I'd never see again, after what happened...
lombardi		May I ask what condition it's in?
eli		It's a little beat-up. But it'll do the job.
lombardi		Well, then. What say we take a look at it?
eli		Is there someplace we could sit?
lombardi		Of course. Right this way.
carnegie		Did you get it?
carnegie		Show me.
carnegie		The new world begins here...
carnegie		What the fuck is this?
eli		Do you have something you can write with?
lombardi		Mmm? Oh, yes of course!
lombardi		Could you please bring us some writing paper?
eli		Bring a lot of it.
redridge		What? What is it?
eli		Are you ready?
lombardi		What exactly am I writing?
eli		Pay close attention and write down every word exactly as I say it.
eli		The First Book of Moses called Genesis. Chapter one, verse one. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Verse two. The earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Verse three. And God said, "Let there be light," and there was light.
claudia		What's wrong?
carnegie		You told me once that you know how to read this. This blind language.
claudia		Well, a long time ago, when I was a little girl...
carnegie		You're going to read it for me. Every word. And I'm going to write it down. Start at the beginning.
claudia		I'm sorry. It's been so long. I don't remember. I don't remember any of it.
carnegie		God fucking dammit!
claudia		Bill, is there something-
carnegie		Just go. Just get out of my sight.
lombardi		You know, you don't have to leave. You're welcome to stay here with us. You'll be safe.
solara		Thanks.
solara		But I gotta do what I gotta do.
lombardi		Where will you go?
solara		Home.
****Dialogues from script :Boondock_Saints.txt****

monsignor		 Thank you Father Macklepenny, for coming all the way across town to be our guest speaker today. I hope you found our little parish to your liking.
monsignor		 Is the indifference of good men.
connor		 I do believe the Monsignor finally got a point.
murphy		 Aye.
connor		What?
mcgerkin		Boys this is Rose, Baum, Gurtle... Gurtle.
roz		Rozengurtle Baumgartner.
mcgerkin		You'll be training her today, and do a good job.
both boys		Aye.
connor		 Pleased ta meet ya Rozie.
roz		I prefer to be called Rozengurtle by men.
connor		 Okay then... let's get ya started.
murphy		Christ, that's the largest woman I've ever seen.
mcgerkin		It's self-imposed affirmative action. If we hire big, fat, angry lesbians, then the leftist groups representing big, fat angry lesbians, won't think we're violating their rights.
murphy		Well, how politically correct you are. That's good stuff.
mcgerkin		Hey, those people can shut ya down. They'll sue you into the ground claiming they were put under mental duress, inner pain. and sufferin'.
murphy		Well, as long as we're hirin' fat lesbians, give your ma a call.
mcgerkin		Fuck you Murphy.
connor		Okay, just cut off as much fat as you can as it goes by and the rule of thumb here is...
roz		Rule of thumb?
connor		 Yeah?
roz		Do you know where that term comes from? In the early 1900's it was legal for men to beat their wives as long as they used a stick no wider than their thumb.
connor		Can't do much damage with that. Perhaps, it shoulda been the rule of wrist. Ha!  Rule of wrist.
connor		Hey Murphy?
murphy		Aye.
connor		 How many feminists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
murphy		How many?
connor		Two. One ta screw it in and one ta suck my cock.
roz		 I knew you two pricks would give me problems. Give me shit cause I'm a woman. I'm not gonna take your male dominance bullshit!
murphy		Yeah. Just tryin' ta break the ice is all.
roz		 ...and fuck you!
murphy		Oh, come on its St. Patty's Day. It's all in good fun.
connor		Now look Rozengurtle, we're sorry. Just relax.
connor		Why don't you save all your aggression for protests and marches and what not.
roz		You fuckin' slaves. Kowtowing to the needs of men! Get up! Get the fuck up! Leave him there.
murphy		Guess you'll have ta change that tattoo now, won't ya Rozie!?
connor		Fuck you.
connor		Hello.
connor		 Mother, is that you?
connor		Ma, what's wrong?
murphy		No fuckin' hot water man. That...
connor		Shut it. It's Ma.
connor		Mother, what are you sayin'? You're talkin' crazy here.
murphy		What's the matter with her?
mom		I finally found your Da's army revolver, Connor.
connor		What the hell are you doin' with Da's gun!?
murphy		 What the...?
connor		What?! What are you doin'?
connor		 Pull the trigger?! Have ya lost it woman?! Now just calm down here.
murphy		 Oh my god!
connor		No ma! No!
connor		 Aaaww, shit!... evil woman!
murphy		Lord have mercy. That was a good one ma.
murphy		 Oh, she's quite proud of herself.
mom		Okay, seriously, both you listen ta me now.
connor		All right, we're both here.
mom		 It's only 11:00 here boys so I got lot's more drinkin' ta do with your worthless relatives down at the Anvil.
murphy		Just called ta torture us did ya?
connor		How's Uncle Sibeal?
mom		Well, you know how it is with him. Always complainin' he's never turnin' a profit on St. Patty's. Whole damn family goes down there with no money, cause we know he can't bear ta charge us.
mom		But he's been havin' himself a nip or two as well... Been up the waitress' skirt all night, poor girl.
murphy		Well you tell him ta take it easy with that. He's gotta learn ta respect women the way Connor does.
connor		Oh, Jesus.
murphy		I gave him his first lesson in sensitivity toward the fairer sex just today.
connor		Don't even do it, ya bastard.
murphy		 He got beat up by a girl.
connor		If that was a girl I want ta see some papers. She had ta be just preoperative for Christ sakes.
mom		 Lord's name.
both		 Mother Mary, full of grace.
mom		What did you do, Connor?
connor		Well, we tried ta make friends and she gave me a shot ta the nuts.
mom		 What... the dirty bitch! I hope ya trounced her a good one!
connor		Well, I didn't but...
murphy		 Don't worry, I respected the hell out of her for ya, Ma.
mom		Well listen, I know how my boys take ta scrappin' when they take ta drinkin'.
both		 Yes mother.
mom		 My tits are saggin' down ta my ankles. I trip over em for Christ sakes, now ya listen ta me, NO FIGHTEN!
mom		Promise me boys.
murphy		We promise.
connor		Yeah, we promise.
mom		Well, there's my boys.  Shit. I gotta go. Looks like I caused a ruckus with that shot. Half the damn neighborhood is comin'.
murphy		All right, love ya ma. Listen, before ya go just give us the goods, eh?
connor		Yeah. It's been twenty-seven years.
mom		Still bickerin' over that, huh?
connor		Come on, ma. Out with it. Who came out first?
mom		All right, I suppose you have the right ta know.
mom		Are ya ready?
both		Aye.
mom		 The one with the biggest cock!
connor		Crazy woman.
connor		Don't start. I've had ice on mine.
greenly		 I mean this guy's fuckin' hamburger man. His spine is crushed. He's all twisted and shit. That guy had to be one big mother fucker. Huge, 3-400 pounds, fuckin huge.
greely		Or, okay. Check this out. Say these two don't even know the huge guy. They're just staggerin' home from a bar this morning, still all fucked up from St. Patty's last night. So they figure they'll take a short cut down the alley and this big mother fucker, he's just waitin'. And what could be more perfect for strong arm robbery? Two drunk guys all bandaged up. They're already injured for Christ sakes. He takes a blunt object and whacks the guy with the bandage on his head, right? Cause he's smart. He knows the guy with the bandage on his ass, he ain't going nowhere. Matter of fact, this guy's probably helping his friend with the rectal problem along. They're limping around like a couple of decrepit old broads. So once this guy's out of the picture  And look at this print...
greenly		That's one big fuckin' shoe!... and think about it. Of all the ways to kill a guy, crushin' him to death. That's very particular. You don't get many of those. I dunno. I feel something big here. I wouldn't be surprised if we see more of these turning up.
smecker		 What's your name?
greenly		Detective Greenly. Who the fuck are you?
smecker		That's who the fuck I am.
chief		Listen, I gotta go by the numbers on this one. I.D. just came back on these guys. They've got connections to the Russian mob. That makes it a federal matter and Agent Smecker, here, is heading up the investigation with our full cooperation.
smecker		 Why don't you get me a cup of coffee.
greeny		What the fuck?
smecker		Caf latte.
greenly		Who the...
smecker		Twist of lemon!
greenly		 Chief, what the fuck is this?
smecker		Sweet-n-low!
smecker		 Mitchell, Langley!
mitchell		Yes sir.
smecker		Find the manager of this building. See if he has had any complaints of water coming down in any apartments, starting just this morning. If he's not there, knock on every door starting from the third floor up. Langley, you take this building, same thing.
smecker		Chaffey, Newman.
chaffey		Yes sir.
smecker		 If this was a sink find me some metal parts. Gimme a faucet or a drain cover or something.
smecker		Chief, could you get ballistics down here and tell them they have to dig a 45 slug out of a brick wall.
smecker		...and locate another that's been fired through a dumpster.
chief		I got the best ballistics guy in the world. He's mobile. Got all his stuff right in the van. Can have him down here in 10 minutes.
dolly		How did you know that?
smecker		Paraffin came up positive. And bullet holes are usually a big clue.
chaffey		I can't find the second one, sir.
smecker		Look under the body.
chaffey		 Got it.
smecker		You guy's ready for this?
smecker		This was no gangland assassination. Though creative, it was way too sloppy. Something went wrong here. This has personal written all over it. Now, these men were crushed and the first natural reaction the body has to such trauma is to tense up. So now the two shots fired here were reflex rounds. These guys weren't shooting at anything, but they were just about to.
mitchell		Agent Smecker,  This is all illegal loft housing so there's no manager on the premises but I found a lady on the fourth floor said she's had water dripping down on her whole place. Started just this morning.
smecker		Fourth floor huh? Then we're heading to the fifth. Let's go up and see just how right I am.
duffy		So what are you thinkin' here?
smecker		Really want to know?
greenly		No way. You know how big a guy's gotta be to do that? Fuckin' huge.
smecker		 Oooo. I might be wanting a bagel with my coffee.
greenly		 I ain't getting him no fuckin' bagel.
smecker		 We'll start the ass kissing with you.
mitchell		 Agent Smecker. I know this neighborhood pretty good. There's a bar called McGinty's down the block. It's a good bet they were there last night.
smecker		 Good work, Mitchell. I'll check that out myself.
reporter		Hey, Duffy. What the fuck happened here? You owe me. This is the one I want.
duffy		Let's go get a cup of coffee. You ain't gonna fuckin' believe this one.
smecker		I want A.P.B.'s put out. I want more uniforms on the streets. One thing's for sure, wherever these guys are they're hurting.
murphy		Okay. Just calm down. Take it easy. He'll have his day. He'll have his  FUCKIN' DAY!
murphy		Thanks for comin', Doc.
doc		 J-Jesus. What the fuck happened? Are ya b-boys all right?
connor		We're alive.
doc		An F.B.I. agent came by the bar. He left me his c-c, he left me his c-c, he left me this.
doc		 Fuck!..........Ass!
doc		What are you going to do?
connor		We're going to turn ourselves in. It was self defense.
doc		y-y-yeah that's what he said.
murphy		How the fuck's he know that? We haven't spoken to anyone yet.
doc		Don't know. He didn't say.
murphy		Listen Doc, we need a favor.
doc		A-anything.
connor		Hold this shit for us, Doc. We'll be comin back for it when we get out.
doc		Right.
smecker		First of all, I'd like to thank whichever one of you donut munching, barrel-assed dip-shits leaked this to the press. That's just what we need now, some sensational story in the papers making these guys out to be super heroes, triumphing over evil. And let me squash the rumors now. These two aren't heroes.  But angels don't kill and we got two bodies in the morgue that look like they've been...
smecker		...serial crushed by a huge fuckin' guy.
chaffey		Are these me considered armed and dangerous?
smecker		Well, not armed. If they had guns, they'd have used them. But dangerous? Oh yeah.
mitchell		What makes you think they're dangerous? They were just protecting each other.
smecker		Look, look! I'm not saying one way or the other. Just be careful and go by the protocol on this one.
chaffey		Any tips on where these guys may be?
mitchell		No help at all. Swamped from St. Patty's. Packed with drunk, bloody Irish.
smecker		Just hit the bricks nice and hard.
greenly		 These guys are miles away by now.
greenly		But if you want to beat your head against a wall, then here's what you look for. These guys are scared like two little bunny rabbits. Anything in a uniform or flashing blue lights will spook them. So the only thing we can do is put a potato on a string and drag it through South Boston.
murphy		 You'd probably have better luck with a beer.
smecker		What the fuck is this!? This isn't a fuckin' tea party. Get out! Only thing I want in here is them.
smecker		This conversation is going to be recorded. Just answer to the best of your knowledge.
murphy		 Excuse me, sir.
murphy		"What do we tell him about the guns and money?"
connor		"We just got up and left. Bum musta rolled them before the police got there."
murphy		 Okay. We're ready.
smecker		You guys are not under oath, here. I am assuming you knew these two guys from before, huh?
connor		We... met them last night.
smecker		They had some pretty interesting bandages. Know anything about that?
connor		 Would someone please come over here and...
doc		Fuck!
connor		me up the...
doc		Ass!
rocco		Hey! Fuck! Ass! Get me a beer!
rocco		 ...It's not that I'm homophobic. I'm just afraid of faggots.
doc		I got some bad news. Looks like I'm gonna have ta close d-down the bar. The Russians have been buying up buildings all over town, including this one... Fuck!... Ass! And they're not letting me renew my lease. I got 'til the end of the week to come up with 26,000 dollars, or they take the place. I left them a note telling them not to show their faces t- tonight. They been pressuring me ta close and take the last few days ta get all my shit outta here but it's my right to stay open ta the last.
rocco		Let me talk to my boss, may I can...
doc		L-l-listen I don't want anyone ta know until the last possible moment. So you guys keep your traps shut. ya know what they say; People in glass houses sink ships.
rocco		Y'know Doc, I gotta get you a, a, like a proverb book or something. This mix and match shit's gotta go.
doc		What?
connor		 A p-penny saved is worth two in the bush.
murphy		 Don't c-cross the road if ya can't get out of the kitchen.
checkov		 I am Ivan Checkov. You will be closing now.
murphy		 This is McCoy... we find Spock and we got enough for an away team.
checkov		Oh, how extraordinary. A bunch of Irishmen... and they are being drunken idiots. You are killing the stereotype. I'm in no mood for discussion.  You! You stay. The rest of you go now.
doc		Why don't you make like a tree and get the fuck outta here!
connor		Calm down, Doc. I'm sure they're reasonable fellows.
connor		Listen fellas, Y'know he's got 'til this week's end. Ya don't have ta be hard asses, do ya?
murphy		Yeah, it's St. Patty's day. Everyone's Irish tonight. Now, why don't ya pull up a stool and have a drink with us?
checkov		You insult me. I would never drink that sewage. Especially with you people. You are fools.
checkov		This is no game! If you won't go, we will make you go!
connor		If ya want a fight, you can see you're outnumbered. We're trying ta be civil here, so I suggest you take our offer.
checkov		I make the offers, ass-hole.
rocco		 Hey, there Boris. What would you say if I told you that your pinko, commie mother sucked so much dick...
connor		"Now, that wasn't too polite, was it?"
murphy		"I'm afraid we can't let that one go, Ivan."
connor		I don't think Ma would mind.
connor		Let the boy go. He knows what the fuck he's doing!
connor		Nicely done, boy!
connor		Now, like my fine brother says, on St. Patty's everyone's Irish. And this piece of shit is about to be initiated.
checkov		 Trash guys are coming in 10 minutes, gotta go.
murphy		It was just a bar fight. You guys are fuckin' pussies!
checkov		I hope your conscience is clear, Irishman.
connor		We paid attention in school.
smecker		Know any other languages?
murphy		Aye. Our mother insisted on it. French.
murphy		 How do you think he figured all this out without talking to us?
connor		Italian.
connor		 I have no idea. Maybe someone saw and talked.
murphy		German.  Not in our neighborhood, man. A hundred percent Irish. No one talks to cops. Period.
connor		Spanish.  Then I guess he's just real... real good.
smecker		What are you guys doing working at a fucking meat packing plant?
chaffey		Ah, Agent Smecker, we have a problem.
smecker		What?
chaffey		The press is everywhere outside. They're going nuts for these guys. What do you want to do?
smecker		You're not being charged. It's up to you. Do you want to talk to them?
connor		Absolutely not.
murphy		No pictures, either.
smecker		Well, we could try the bag over the head thing. Walk you right out the front.
connor		Our mother can see through bags.
murphy		Aye, she can.  Any way we can stay here?
chaffey		Sure, we have an empty holding cell, They can... can they stay?
smecker		Well, we'll have to check with your mother, but it's ok with me if your friends sleep over.
smecker		Time to feed the dogs.
connor		He's a nice guy.
murphy		Yes... he is.
chief		This is our official statement. The MacManus brothers are not being charged with a crime. It was a clean- cut case of self defense. We have thanked them for their cooperation and we thank you, the media, for your tireless pursuit of the truth.
connor		Destroy all that which is evil...
murphy		...so that which is good may flourish
connor		Be right back...
duffy		We would be honored, sir, if you would join us peasants, in a donut.
murphy		Saints?  I will not accept this pizzle until my feet have been properly anointed.
vincenzo		 Well, it's the funny man. Give it here, package boy.
rocco		 Joey Bevo said it was important. Said I had to give it to him myself.
vincenzo		 Gimme the fuckin' thing. Now sit the fuck down!
vincenzo		 I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man. Heee Hee. I'm so fuckin' funny. Hee Hee.
rocco		Fuck you Vincenzo.
vincenzo		 Tell me a joke funny man. Hee Hee.
rocco		I caught your show down at the velvet room at the Holiday Inn, loved it when you busted into Viva Las Vegas.
rocco		Hey, hey, hey...
yakavetta		Fuck you! I could snap my fingers and have you dead in four hours, rotting in a truck off of Boyleston! You insignificant little fuck! I always get my fuckin' money!
yakavetta		Fuckin' 90's are killin' me. I shouldn't a done that. You're not supposed to tell a guy you're gonna kill him anymore. I gotta tip-toe through the tulips with these assholes. I prance. I'm a prancer. It's what I do... sucked all the fun right out of this job.
rocco		Poppa Joe, you want me to go now?
yakavetta		Yeah. Thanks, Rocco. See ya.
yakavetta		Hey, Rocco, wait. Come back here.
rocco		Yeah boss?
yakavetta		I always see you talking to the boys and making them laugh. They always come around telling me what a crack up you are. What is it they call you?
rocco		 The... The funny man.
yakavetta		The funny man. Well, I got a new job for you, just for now. Roc, I'm having a real shitty day. I'm depressed. Tell me a funny story or a joke.
rocco		 Uh. Okay... um... you hear the one about the, no fuck that one... uh... oh! oh! Well... shit. Okay, there's a white guy. He's walkin' along the beach and he finds a, a pot, y'know and ah, he rubs it and this genie pops out. But this genie, he's a ni... he's a black guy.
yakavetta		He's a nigger.
rocco		Yeah. And uh, he's pissed off. He says, "Why you crackers always gotta find my mother fuckin' pot? And he tells him he's gonna grant all his three wishes but he's gonna give all the black guys...
rocco		Sorry! Sorry! All the niggers on the planet get double what he wishes for. "I'll take a million dollars," he says. Genie give it to him and says every nigger on earth just got two million. "I don't care gimme a yacht." Poof there it is.  I'm sorry Poppa Joe. I can't. This joke sucks.
yakavetta		Continue the joke.
rocco		 He says, "What's your third wish?" And the guys says, "I-I want you to beat me half to death."
yakavetta		 Very good stuff, Rocco. Very good stuff. Tell me another one.
connor		Know what we need, man?... some rope.
murphy		For what?
connor		Charlie Bronson's always got rope.
murphy		What?
connor		Yeah, these guys always got a lot of rope strapped around em in the movies and they always end up using it.
murphy		Oh, you've lost it, haven't ya?
connor		I'm serious.
murphy		Me too. That's stupid. Name one thing we're gonna need it for.
connor		I don't know they just always need it.
murphy		What is all this "they" shit? This ain't a movie.
connor		Is that right, Rambo?
murphy		All right, get the stupid fuckin' rope.
smecker		Uh,huh.  Room number.
smecker		We got a time of death?
smecker		 What's the body count?
smecker		Uh, huh.
smecker		I'll be down there in a bit. Keep the press out.
smecker		What are you doing?
reuben		 I was just trying to cuddle.
smecker		Cuddle?...  What a fag!
smecker		 He's struck again, hasn't he, Greenly?
greenly		Why do you always disrespect me like that?
smecker		Respect is earned, Greenly, never given. Guys like you should have to follow me around squabbling for the scraps from my table.
smecker		How many bodies, Greenly?
greenly		 Eight.
greenly		 No! Shit! I didn't see that one. Nine! Nine!
smecker		While Greenly's getting coffee, anybody else want anything?
greenly		 Shit! Shit!
smecker		So Duffy, got any theories to go with that... tie.
duffy		 These guys were pros. I think they were coming for one target, the fag man, he was the...
smecker		The what man?
duffy		 The fat man.
smecker		Well, Freud was right. So you think they came for the fag man, huh? And what do you base this upon?
duffy		He was the only one done right. Two in the back of the head.
smecker		And the pennies?
duffy		New hitman wants to leave his mark
smecker		That's a possibility. Y'know you Boston cops are perking up. That's two sound theories in one day, neither of which deal with abnormally sized men.  Another possibility is that they were placed there with religious intent.
duffy		Yeah. Some cultures still put pennies in the eyes of the dead, or silver.
smecker		The Greeks. The Italians.
duffy		The Sicilians.
dolly		What's the symbology there?
smecker		Symbology? Well, now that Duffy has relinquished his King Bone Head crown I see we have an heir to the throne. I'm sure the word you were looking for was symbolism. What's the symbolism there? Let me explain it to you. In Greek and Roman mythology when you died you would have to pay the toll to Charon, the boatman who ferried you across to the gates of judgment. This made sure the dead came to atone for what they did during their lives, Detective...
smecker		Dollapoppaskalious.
smecker		 Yeah, well... I'm an expert in name- ology.
smecker		I've seen burns like these before. They used silencers. Look at these entry and exit wounds. They're identical.
smecker		The two bullets went in here, through the top of the skull, criss-crossed and exited through the eyeballs. This one clue tells us three distinct facts. Number one... Duffy.
duffy		They shot him at a downward angle.  They put him on his knees.
smecker		Excellent! Number two. Greenly.
greenly		Uh.  Shit, I, uh...
smecker		It tells us that he was the last to die. All these men  They sure as fuck did!
smecker		And number three, Dolly.
dolly		Uh... two shooters!
smecker		Fan-fuckin-tastic!
smecker		Now stay with me, boys. What did they do to make two such identical wounds? Did one guy put him on his knees, pop a cap in, sit him back up and shoot him again the same way? No. Two men of similar height dropped this guy down, each put some iron to his head and boom! That's all she fuckin' wrote!
duffy		What about one guy with two guns?
smecker		Possible, but unlikely. The angles are too extreme. A guy holding two guns to the back of your head is gonna shoot straight ahead. He wouldn't cock out his elbows, makes no sense. Besides, you telling me one guy came in here and killed eight men with eight extremely well aimed shots in just a few seconds? No way. Had to be at least two.
smecker		Television,... television is the explanation for this.
smecker		You see this is bad television.  The little assault guys creeping in through the vents and coming in through the ceilings. That James Bond shit never happens in real life. Professionals don't do that. So we've got this up here, which has novice written all over it. And all this down here that's simply a perfect textbook assassination. So here's our two possibilities. We either have rank amateurs that got lucky or consummate professionals that fucked up.
smecker		Join me in a drink, gentlemen.
smecker		With the exception of my coffee boy, you Boston detectives are starting to show signs of intelligence. So, I am going to make you privy to some information that you would not normally be. These men are all Russian mob. Not like those two peons in the alley the other day. These guys are all syndicate bosses and underbosses. I have a dossier on every man in this room. Since the Iron Curtain has gone down, the Russian syndicates have started to come here. And in the spirit of Glasnost the Soviets have opened their borders to the mafia. But the Italians, they're not convinced that the grounds in mother Russia are fertile enough for organized crime yet. So they ain't ready to commit. The Russians are coming here anyway. They are unwelcome. What we have here, gentlemen, is possibly the beginning of the first international mob war... unless I've totally missed something.
smecker		Now, what is this going to look like to those who do not know what I just told you?
duffy		It's gonna look like the bad guys are killing each other.
smecker		And is there an American, shit is there a man seated among us that hasn't thought about it many times, let's just put them all on an island, give them guns and let them kill each other. This is our wet dream come true. You can expect federal and local law enforcement to go only deep enough to satisfy the law, then bury it from here on out.
dolly		So, what do we do now?
smecker		That depends. You either do your job or get ethical.
rocco		This better be good.  Talk!
murphy		Nervous?
connor		A bit.
murphy		Me, too.
murphy		You and your fucking rope.
connor		 See. I told you there'd be a shaft.
murphy		 Just like on TV.
murphy		Where the fuck are you going?
connor		We'll find it. Just calm down.
murphy		No, fuck you. This rope is bullshit. I'm sweatin' my ass off draggin' this stupid thing around. Must weigh 30 pounds.
connor		We're doing some serious shit here. Now, get a hold of yourself, asshole.
murphy		Asshole!? I'm not the rope-totin' Charlie Bronson wanna-be that's getting' us lost!
connor		Sh, sh! Fuck you!
murphy		No, fuck you!
both		And shepherds we shall be. For thee, my Lord, for thee. Power hath descended forth from thy hand that our feet may swiftly carry out thy command. So we shall flow a river forth to thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be. E nomini patri, et Fili e spiritu sancti.
connor		 That was some good fuckin' rope.
murphy		That was way easier than I thought.
connor		Aye.
murphy		On TV ya always get that asshole that jumps behind the couch.
connor		Yeah, and ya gotta shoot at him for ten minutes.
murphy		Oh, we're good man.
connor		Yes, we are.
murphy		I love our new job.
rocco		Oh, God! Don't kill me! We're on the same side! The boss musta sent you in as back up, huh? Oh, shit, please! I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man.  They call me the funny fuckin' man!
connor		 Where's your gun?
rocco		Chest pocket.  Shit!
connor		This is a six-shooter.
murphy		 Nine bodies.
connor		Oh, you're good. What were you gonna do? Laugh the last three to death, funny man?
rocco		Poppa Joe said there was only two. In and out.  Boy, you guys sure did a good job. You're good, huh? Cool masks. Where'd you get them?
connor		Let's do him right here.
murphy		Right now.
rocco		 Don't kill me. Oh shit, please no. I'm Rocco. I'm the funny man!... the funny man... the funny.
rocco		What did you do?! Fuckin'... what the fuckin' fuck! Who the fuck, fucked this fuckin'? fuck. How did you two fuckin', fucks?......... FUCK!!!
connor		Certainly illustrates the diversity of the word.
rocco		What the fuck are you doing here? What, huh!? WHAT? WHAT? WHAT? ANSWERS! I WANT FUCKIN' ANSWERS!
connor		 Get a hold of yourself, man.
murphy		Yeah, get a hold of yourself.
connor		Listen, we gotta get outta here now. We'll take separate exits and meet at Rocco's.
rocco		Fuck!
rocco		Anybody you think is evil?
connor		Yes.
rocco		Don't you think that's a little psycho? A little weird?
connor		Weird, huh?... Know what I think is weird? Decent men with loving families go home every day after work. They turn on the news and see rapists, murderers, and child molesters all getting out of prison.
murphy		Mafiosos getting caught with 20 kilos and walkin' on bail the same day.
connor		Little girls catchin' stray bullets in their heads, playin' hopscotch in their front yards. And everyone thinks the same thing... Someone should just go kill those motherfuckers.
murphy		Kill em all. Admit it, even you've thought about it.
rocco		You guys should be in every major city.
rocco		This is some heavy shit. This is like Lone Ranger-heavy man. Fuck it! There's so much shit that pisses me off. You guys should recruit 'cause I am sick and fuckin' tired of walkin' down the street waitin' for one of these assholes to get me, y'know?
murphy		 Hallelujah, Jaffar.
rocco		So you're not just talkin' mob guys. You're talkin' anyone, right? Even like pimps and drug dealers and all that shit?
rocco		Well fuck, you guys could do this every day.
murphy		We're like 7-Eleven. We ain't always doing business, but we're always open.
connor		Nicely put.
rocco		You fuckin' guys. You ruined me. I'm fuckin' done. Permanent package boy.
murphy		Who says that? You could take credit on it.
rocco		What are you serious?
murphy		Yeah, fuck it. If you think about it, it's all you can do really. You can't tell him it was us. Go in braggin' and shit.
connor		Climb the corporate ladder, boy. Don Rocco.
rocco		Fuck it! I'm doing it. I deserve it. I've been working for those fat bastards since I was in high school and look at this place.
rocco		 They're fuckin' me man! Hey, they can suck my pathetic little dick. And I'll dip my nuts in marinara just so the fat fucks can get a taste of home while they're at it. That's it, it's done, I'm doing it.
murphy		I can't fuckin' believe that just happened!
connor		 Donna's gonna be angry about her cat.
rocco		Shit. She's on every drug know to man. She'd have sold that thing for a dime bag. Screw her.  But I do kinda feel like an ass-hole.
connor		 You sound real remorseful.
rocco		She ain't been around in weeks anyhow.
connor		 Listen. Something's been bothering me about last night.
rocco		What?
connor		Well... what if your boss knew how many guys were supposed to be there... in that room?
rocco		What are you saying?
connor		Think about it man. Nine men, six bullets.
rocco		You think they sold me out? No way.
connor		He probably knew you'd end up nailing the fat guy, maybe one or two more, but he had to know you weren't walking out of there. Figure it out. Shooter's dead on the scene. No in-depth investigation. It'd slide right off his back. 'Cause as much as I love ya, you're not exactly Don Corleone. What would he be losing? A thirty- five year old delivery boy?
rocco		No, no. That's just not the way things are done. Besides, how's he know I don't just get in there see there's too many and just serve em their fuckin' food and beat it?
connor		He knows you, man. He knows all you want is to move up. That's all. A smooth hitter woulda gone in there, seen it was a wash and slipped out. But a guy like you? Knowin' this is your only chance? Waitin' eighteen years?
rocco		No. No man. That's... that's... you don't know what you're talking about. That's bullshit. I know these guys. I mean, thanks for your concern, but that just ain't the thing of it.
connor		Do me a favor and roll it around for a bit on your way in.
rocco		No, look. No rolling. Nothing needs to be rolled.
murphy		 Did you tell him?
connor		Yes.
murphy		 Then what the fuck?
rocco		Hey. You don't know that shit for sure.
murphy		Oh, Jesus. You're such a fuckin' retard!
rocco		Fuck you!
murphy		Use your brain for once. Is it so unbelievable they don't care about you? You are fuckin' dead, you go in there today. Dead!
rocco		Oh yeah. You two fuckin' Micks know what's going on, huh?  Fuck you!
connor		 Hey, this ain't a thing you should gamble on, Roc.
murphy		Fuck it! What kind of flowers ya want at your funeral? Ya dumb Wop. This is the last time I'll see you. Bye-bye ya stupid son of a bitch.
connor		Hey. You get in there and start getting a bad vibe, get the fuck out quick.
murphy		Hello?
murphy		Roc. You okay?
murphy		No. You sure you're okay?
donna		 Here kitty, kitty...... kitty.
dolly		 She was in here when it went down.
smecker		Can she I.D. them?
dolly		They were wearing masks.
smecker		Of course they were. How many?
dolly		Three.
dolly		Only two did the shooting.  So what are you thinking, Russian retaliation?
smecker		Nah, too quick half their infrastructure got taken out at the Copley plaza. Besides, if you're a hitter, you're either working for the Russians or the Italians. There's no riding the fence. Our little theory from last night just got blown to shit. Something... new is going on here.
smecker		Probably shouldn't work another shift for awhile.
dancer		Fuck this job. I'm getting out of the porno business and I don't care who I gotta blow to do it.
smecker		After talking to the dancer we know that their mark was the guy in the middle booth. After she watches them whack him, she passes out.  Why the two extra victims?
greenly		Witness?
smecker		No way they could have seen it.
smecker		 little fireman time.
duffy		No way they could have seen it?
smecker		Those doors were down... which means this. They looked down in through the peep hole, saw these guys and opened the doors from the inside. Pop, pop, pop, right through the glass. Why?
dolly		Maybe the three of them had something in common.
smecker		No. This guy is big time.  These two are street-walking scum.
greenly		 Then that's what they had in common. They were all bad guys... now they're all dead bad guys.
smecker		We got another thing to think about here. We got us a genuine Kennedy assassination style bullet theory. Two guns were used here, guns A and B. The guy in the middle was done with both. But this guy...  ...gun B only. But ballistics dug two slugs out of the wall from over here where the victim was done with A.
smecker		And it's the same story over here. Why the crossover?  Theories.
dolly		That's just fucking weird. I have no idea.
duffy		Jesus. I just can't think anymore. That scene over at the coffee shop today tapped me out.
smecker		What?
duffy		A guy went nuts over off of Commonwealth today. Shot three guys to death in a coffee shop in broad daylight. Fled the scene. Don't have much on him.
smecker		 Why was I not informed of this?
greenly		They weren't related. The guy used a
smecker		Who were the victims?
greenly		A couple of peons for the mob and...
smecker		 Oh that's just BEAUTIFUL! All the scumbags in the quiet city of Boston start dropping dead and you think it's unrelated?! Greenly, the day I want the Boston Police doing my thinking for me, I will have a fucking tag on my toe! Now, get me a squad car and get me over there. I want the crime scene photos and any witness statements. NOW!
smecker		 Oh... it looks like we got us a cowboy.
smecker		The shooter knew these guys, huh?
dolly		How do you figure?
smecker		Friends, Gentlemen. They were friends.
smecker		These guys were packing. Not one hand near a gun. It's simple human behavior. Someone you don't know approaches you, you put your hand on it. This guy's got his hands on the table. He's eating his food, for Christ sakes. They were friends.
smecker		These two fucking scenes are related. Too many coincidences. Same day? Five hours apart? Dead mobsters on both scenes. Now, why did he kill the bartender?
duffy		Crime of passion. He just went nuts. He would have shot everyone in here. He just ran out of bullets.
smecker		Duffy. This look like a fucking post office to you? This guy came in here with intent. Maybe he didn't know exactly what he was gonna do but he had a pretty good idea. The bartender wasn't a fucking accident.
duffy		Well, we didn't get any help on that. A lot of people saw it. Nobody's talking.
smecker		Fucking figures. Look, are you guys seeing the pattern here? We got big questions at both of these crime scenes, with no answers. WHY did they kill the guys in the other two booths? WHY did he do the bartender? It would seem unnecessary, even stupid.  God, I hate cold crime scenes! I'm fucking leaving now. And do me a favor, tell me when the next guy dies, cause these guys are not done yet.
rocco		Hey, Murph.
rocco		Yeah. Anybody call for me?
rocco		I'm fuckin' fine.  Catch you on the flip side.
rocco		Pack your shit! We gotta get outta here! We gotta get out!
connor		 What happened?
rocco		I killed em! Oh, Jesus! I killed em all!!
donna		Rocco?
murphy		Hey, hey. Just calm down. Tell us what happened!
rocco		No! Fuck you! You start getting excited! We gotta fucking go!
donna		Rocco!
connor		 Who did you kill?
murphy		 Holy shit. Who? How many?
rocco		 Hurry the fuck up!
murphy		This is some crazy shit, man!
rocco		Those cocksuckers sold me out!
connor		Did I fuckin' tell ya, Rocco? They pull on you first?
donna		ROCCO!
rocco		What did I fuckin' do?... in the middle of the Lakeview.
connor		Lakeview the deli? Oh, shit!
murphy		Ha! Ha! Roc, you got a jumbo set of coconut balls man!
rocco		 What?
donna		 Where's my cat?
rocco		 I killed your fuckin' cat, you druggie bitch!
donna		 You... oh god, why?
rocco		I felt it would bring closure to our relationship!
donna		 You killed my... my...
rocco		 Your what?! Your fuckin' what?!
donna		My, my...
donna		 Pee...Per...Man.
rocco		Peeperman? WRONG? What color was it?!!!
donna		It was... It was...
rocco		Male or female, bitch?!!
rayvie		Don't you yell at her you fuckin' prick!
rocco		Shut your fat ass, Rayvie! I can't buy a pack of smokes without running into nine guys you fucked.
donna		Don't you yell at her!
rocco		All right, let's get the fuck outta here!
rayvie		Is my... I mean it's not really...?
donna		No. No. It's not fat.
rocco		Those rat fucks! All of them were all laughing at me man!
murphy		You sure you killed them?
vinnie		I'll bet it was a test. Vincenzo came in here shooting his mouth off. He was makin' sure we knew. But we did what we were supposed to, eh? We kept our mouths shut. You did your part. They know we're goodfellas now. We'll get taken care of.
rocco		What? Did everyone know? Next thing you'll tell me Sal was in on it.
oly		Fuck. Vincenzo told Sal first. That fat fuck knew before we did.
oly		At least we got our funny man back.
connor		Anybody see ya?
rocco		Fuck, man! I may as well have posted flyers. Right out in public, man.
murphy		Liberating isn't it?
rocco		 Y'know it is, a bit.
rocco		Stop the car!
rocco		Vincenzo, that fat motherfucker, Yakavetta's right hand. He's the one who set me up. Then he went around shooting his mouth off, telling everyone I was as good as dead. He goes in there every Wednesday night around 10:00, he jerks off in the same booth to the same titty dancer. Never misses.
murphy		So?
rocco		So let's kill the motherfucker. I mean, what are you guys... like that's your new thing right?
connor		 Yeah, well...
rocco		Oh, what the fuck? How do you guys decide who you're... I mean, who makes the cut? Is there a raffle or something?
murphy		Well, truth be known, those first ones just kinda fell into our laps.
rocco		Well, what'ya do?
connor		I guess we really don't have a system of deciding who.
rocco		 MEEE! ME! I'm the guy! I know everyone, their habits, where they hang out, who they talk to. I know where they fuckin' live. We could kill everyone!
murphy		 So what do you think?
connor		I'm strangely comfortable with it.
murphy		Okay Roc, this is...
rocco		What? You guys got masks.
murphy		 You look like Mush Mouth from Fat Albert.
rocco		 Fine! Fuck it! When we're done she can I.D. me. I don't care. Just tryin' to be professional, but no...
connor		 No. No. It looks good. C'mon, put it back on. It's good.
connor		 Okay Roc. You sure you're O-B-kay-B?
rocco		Which one is he in?
rocco		 What's his routine?
dancer		H... h... he jerks off in there. Th... then he puts money through the slot and I raise the door.
murphy		How?
rocco		Then what?
dancer		He watches me do my thing and f- finishes himself off.
vincenzo		 Don't you talk to me like that, you dirty little... give it to daddy... give it ta da King... garbage mouth, garbage mouth.
rocco		Oh man. He is some sicko.
connor		You've earned this.
connor		What the fuck are you doing?
rocco		I-I'll tip her.
murphy		We've teamed up with a sex offender.
connor		So, when are you getting a plastic fuck doll?
rocco		All right. I'm sorry. I'm pathetic.
rocco		What? What is it?
connor		This place is like a scumbag yard sale.
murphy		We gotta come down here once a week and clean house.
rocco		You sure about this guy?
rocco		Oh man. You gotta let me do these guys. I'm such a moron. I gotta make up for the tit thing.
connor		No way. I've been waitin' for this asshole.
rocco		Aw, c'mon. I gotta clear my family name here. I've brought shame to the house of Della Rocco.
murphy		Give the guy a shot.
connor		 Rocco, this is the real deal. We must kill without hesitation, without guilt or remorse. Evil man, dead man.
rocco		Wyatt-fuckin'-Earp, man!
rocco		You guys gotta teach me that prayer, man. That's some good shit.
connor		Forget it. It's a family prayer. My father, his father before him that sort of shit.
rocco		C'mon!
augustus		Fuck you.
yakavetta		Hey, Augustus, I need your help, I got a serious problem here. I'm not screwing around.
augustus		I bounced you on my knee at family reunions, for Christ sakes. Your dad and me ran the whole east coast syndicate you snot-nosed little prick. And when you took the wheel, who was beside you?
yakavetta		Hey, I just...
augustus		Don't start with your shit. Don't you talk to me. Oh, hey Uncle Gussy, thanks for years of service. Here's a gold watch and a job sniffing other guys' shit eight hours a day. What am I, a retired bus driver?
yakavetta		I need Il Duce.
augustus		The Duke?  What did you do?
yakavetta		This kid, this package boy could bring down the whole east coast. If he decides to turn states he could dismantle us... totally. But it looks like for now, he's content with just killing us one by one. And even worse the kid is good at it. I mean I had a prodigy on my hands the whole time and didn't even know it.
augustus		Listen kid, I think you better understand who you're dealing with here.
yakavetta		Yeah. I was only twelve or thirteen when you guys used to talk about him, like he was a ghost or something.
augustus		Your dad and I used him three times over twenty years, only when everything went totally fucked. Believe me kid, you don't want this guy unless you are 100% sure you need him. He is... a fuckin' monster.
augustus		I've had this guy in front of me, and I couldn't tell you what he looks like, sounds like. He is the Picasso of assassins, kid. He plants hair samples, blood. Puts skin under fingernails. He is a fucking genius. Only one problem. He's been rotting in prison for twenty-five or thirty years. Don't even know if he's still alive. Or if he's even up to it.
yakavetta		There's ways around that.
augustus		Go find one.
rocco		Let's talk some business here. I know a sick fuck... makes the ones we been doing look like altar boys. Worst night of my life when I met this guy.
rocco		The guy never says a fuckin' word to me. We're driving for 25 minutes. Never a sigh, no throat clearing, nothing. And his face, blank man. Just nothing there.
rocco		I didn't see what he was doing while he was in there.
the man		I have a poker game at the house every Saturday with a couple of guys you know. Why don't you come down? Wife makes a hell of a bar-g-que.
rocco		 Yeah... yeah, I'd like that. Tell me something. What did they do?
the man		I don't know.
rocco		Worst day of my life, man.
murphy		 Well, I'm sold.
connor		Don't worry, Roc. We'll do this guy right and you'll feel a lot better.
connor		Who the fuck was he, Rocco? I know you fuckin' know!
rocco		Fuck you! I told you I never saw him before!
murphy		Well he sure as fuck knew you!
rocco		Fuck you both! Ya ask me, he was aiming at you!
smecker		Okay. Here's what happened.
smecker		They waited in a parked car down the street for the kid to leave.
murphy		There he goes.  Okay, gentlemen. Are we ready to bring this man into the light? Are we ready to truly do the work of the Lord?
connor		 A-fuckin'-men!
rocco		This is so fuckin' cool!
smecker		They went in through the garage. The kid says he leaves it open when he takes his bike out.
rocco		Don't fuck with me lady. I'll kill you.
smecker		The wife says she doesn't know what happened after she hit the code. She just remembers going down. But, judging by the burn mark on her back, I think what they did...
smecker		...was use a stun gun on her.
smecker		Now the guy knows a friend is coming to the game. And they know that this door can only be opened from the inside. So they wait... and when that door opens, man...
rocco		All of them.
smecker		Nobody was ready for it. Devastation, panic! This was like shooting fish in a fuckin' barrel!
smecker		Now these guys dove under the table. The trajectory on the bullets show they came from straight across. So this means one of our shooters... dropped to his knees...
rocco		Shit!... Shit! He ain't here.
murphy		What the fuck do you mean?
rocco		I mean he ain't here.
connor		Look again for fuck sake!
rocco		I know what the fuck he looks like!
smecker		Something went wrong. Right here.
connor		Let the boy go!
murphy		C'mon Roc!
smecker		Now, one of these guys is a real sicko. He knew this man. He wanted him to suffer, to feel every second of a painful death.
rocco		Help me you assholes! 
smecker		This guy is one bad motherfucker.
rocco		I don't wanna die!!!!!
smecker		I've never seen wounds like these before, but whatever he used on this guy, it was a blunt object and they took it with them.
smecker		They exited out the front door. And they had no fucking idea what they were in for.
smecker		Now they are staring at six guys with guns drawn. It was a fucking ambush.
smecker		And this was a fucking bomb dropping in Beaver Cleaverville! For a few seconds this place was Armageddon! There was a fire fight!
il duce		No!... No! No!...
greenly		What if it was just one guy with six guns?
smecker		Why don't you let me do the thinking, huh, genius?
smecker		What is taking so long with those blood samples?
smecker		 They used ammonia... none of this shit is any good... Fuck... You know what this means?! Even if we get suspects in this case, we got nothing... Nothing!
smecker		 Who the fuck are they?! I've never seen any-fucking-thing like this in my whole fucking life. Who the fuck are they?!!
duffy		What? That's it?!
connor		Shit.
rocco		What?  What, that guy?
murphy		That's the guy that got us off the hook with the "Checkov" thing.
connor		And he is one smart man.
rocco		They got nothing.
connor		This guy is very sharp. If he hasn't figured us out yet, he will.
murphy		You bet your ass he will.
rocco		Well, I'd say that makes him a lia- fuckin-bility.
connor		He isn't to be touched.
murphy		He's a good man.
rocco		Okay... whatever.  My Mom's gonna kill me.
smecker		No. This is all wrong. David Della Rocco?
smecker		Yeah. Maria, this is Smecker. Could you find me the visitor's list for the day the MacManus brothers were in and read me all the names?
smecker		Okay, thank you.
bartender		You've had quite a bit, Paul. Are you sure you...
smecker		Pour the drink, faggot-ass!
smecker		Okay... But I don't cuddle.
rocco		Hey! We gotta talk about this early morning church shit.
murphy		We have to go now.  We're on the lamb.
rocco		You gonna do what I say, got it?
priest		Yes.
rocco		I'm sorry you're gonna hafta see this. Don't look at me!
priest		I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't see.
rocco		Shut up! Shut the fuck up!
priest		Don't do this my son.
rocco		Open it!
priest		Have you no fear of God?
rocco		That's who I'm doing this for, now open the fuckin' thing.
rocco		Father, I'll do you right here.
priest		 God have mercy on my soul.
connor		 You little fuck. Let him go. I'll drop you right here.
rocco		Okay, just calm down. He could hurt us, brother. He could ruin the whole thing.
connor		Let him go or I will deliver you, right now. 
rocco		You won't do it Connor, you won't. You love me man.
smecker		 Hello? You there?
priest		Y-Yes my son.
rocco		 Do your thing Father. Don't fuck this up.
priest		 What do you want me to say?
rocco		Just be natural, goddamit.
priest		How long since your last confession, my son?
smecker		Oh, Christ, uh, I've never confessed.
smecker		According to the dogma of the Catholic church, I should probably burst into flames right here in this booth. But I've come here for advice, not salvation.
priest		Why have you come to a church for council if you're not religious?
smecker		 Why have I come to a church? I never have before. I guess I just... felt I should.
priest		What is it my son?
smecker		It's ethics. I put evil men behind bars, but the law has miles of red tape and loopholes for these... cocksuckers to slip through. I've found out there are these two young men who fix the situation with an iron fist. As if they have God's permission. But what they do is wrong and I should arrest them... technically.
priest		God's permission? God doesn't...
smecker		But in this day and age I believe what they do is... necessary. I feel it is... correct.
priest		You believe?
smecker		Yes.
priest		You feel?
smecker		Yes.
priest		You feel? A soul is what gives you feelings. Happiness, guilt, right or wrong. It is a conduit through which the Lord speaks to us. You felt that your answers would be here in the house of God today. You feel these men are necessary. The Lord has spoken to you twice this day.
smecker		 Has he now?
priest		You have entered the house of the Lord of your own free will speaking of beliefs and feelings. Is it so much to believe that God has brought you here?
smecker		I guess not.
priest		It is easy to be sarcastic about religion. It is harder to take small hints from God, your feelings and listen to them... to take a stand.
smecker		You're right.
priest		Those who do not act are in a constant state of ethical indecision.
smecker		I want to stand for what I believe in, father.
priest		Then you must find out what your beliefs are.
smecker		I believe these young men are right.
priest		You know them personally?
smecker		Yes.
priest		Do you think they would harm an innocent man, for any reason?
smecker		No. They would never do that.
smecker		Well, the two Irish guys wouldn't. But the Italian guy, he might. He's kind of an idiot.
rocco		 Goddam right, I am.
smecker		I'm beginning to see. I've been doing my job... well for fifteen years and it's just not enough. All the things I wish I could do, these guys are doing. Millions of dollars in tax payers' money wasted on shit like wire taps and surveillance. Theses boys go in and take care of it for the price of a bullet.  Ww-what do you think I should do? Because I'm a law man.
priest		The laws of God are higher than the laws of man.
smecker		 Yes! Yes! I was thinking that, too. No. I was feeling it. All I needed was to hear you say it! Amen! I'll help them.
priest		 Forgive me father.
smecker		Thank you, Father, thank you.  Whatever. Goodbye, amen.
rocco		I wouldn't have, uh, killed you, Father.  Dominus Ominus. Remember, you're bound. You can't talk about this... to anyone.
priest		Just go!
rocco		 The Lord works in mysterious ways.
smecker		That's all you can give me?
connor		Well, the light caught the side of his face for a second. And it looked like he had a gray beard, maybe... late fifties, early sixties.
smecker		So you're telling me it was one guy with six guns? A-and he was a senior fucking citizen?
connor		I think it's better if we find this man before he finds us again.
smecker		I'll see what I can do. How do I get in touch with you?
connor		We're going to hit Poppa Joe tonight, right in the comfort of his own home. Then we move on to New York. It's getting a bit hot for us here.
smecker		Be careful.
connor		I'll call you tonight, afterwards. 
augustus		I don't know who he is. Nobody does.
smecker		What did he bring him in for?
augustus		Needed an outsider. The package boy knows everyone. He'd spot our hitters a mile away.
smecker		Just for him?
augustus		Well he's the one shooting up all his guys, right? He's scared of the kid. Says he's real good, got every available gun in the city up there.
smecker		Up where?
augustus		Up his house. I don't know what's going on but I know it's gotta have something to do with this kid.
smecker		Oh fuck! 
yakavetta		 You gonna tell me what's going on here?! Huh! You little fuck! Gimme some answers!
yakavetta		What do you guys think?
geno		They're tough. No way they're gonna talk.
hojo		I know Rocco. He ain't smart enough for this shit. These other guys are the brains. He's just a player.
yakavetta		There's only one way to get them to talk.
rocco		 You guys?
connor		 We're here brother.
rocco		You gotta keep going.
murphy		 We'll keep going, Roc.
rocco		You'll make it outta here. You can't ever stop, not ever.
chappy		Once you set him in motion, you can't call him off. He thinks it's still on.
yakavetta		Oh Jesus Christ!
hojo		What? I...
yakavetta		Hey, I don't have my name spray painted on the front of this house. There are no big pictures of me anywhere. If this guy thinks the job is still a go then I got green money says the mother fucker's out in the bushes already. I'm fucking gone! I'm leaving you guys to deal with this.
geno		One fucking guy, so what.
hojo		Why don't you take the front.  You guys cover those other exits and if you see him, don't flag him down, just kill the mother fucker. I'm going back down to work on these pricks.
geno		Listen baby. Tonight ain't the night for this shit.  Bevo's so great. Always sending us hot girls.
smecker		You look like you could use a quickie.
geno		Hey, Chappy!
chappy		 What the fuck?
geno		I ain't been laid in a week. Take five minutes.
chappy		If I die cause you're getting a piece of ass, I'll come back and beat you to death with a big rubber dick.
geno		Don't worry about it.
connor		How far are we going with this, Da?
father		The questions is not, "how far?" The question is, "Do you possess the constitution, the depth of faith to go as far as is needed?"
father		How long do these put a man down for?
murphy		Ten minutes.
father		Twenty is a bit better.
judge		Due to the lack of hard evidence......
father		All media to the back! Drop the cameras! Drop 'em!
father		 You people have been chosen to reveal our existence to the world. You will witness what happens here today and you will tell of it afterwards.
yakavetta		 Fuckin' do something!
connor		 Now, you will receive us.
murphy		 We do not ask for your poor or your hungry.
connor		We do not want your tired and sick.
murphy		It is your corrupt we claim.
connor		It is your evil, who will be sought by us.
murphy		With every breath we shall hunt them down.
connor		Each day we will spill their blood till it rains down from the skies.
murphy		Do not kill, do not rape, do not steal. These are principles which every man of every faith can embrace.
connor		These are not polite suggestions. They are codes of behavior and those that ignore them will pay the dearest cost. 
murphy		There are varying degrees of evil. We urge you lesser forms of filth  Not to push the bounds and cross over into true corruption... into our domain.
connor		For if you do, there will come the day when you look behind you and see we three. And on that day you will reap it.
murphy		And we will send you to whatever God you wish.
woman		I guess we all know what is right and wrong. We all know. Nobody needs to be convinced of what he was... I'm going home now to have my first real full night's sleep.
****Dialogues from script :Boondock_Saints_2__All_Saints_Day.txt****

murphy		Looks like a storm's comin'.
connor		Aye.
sibeal		Something's happened.
murphy		The priest.    Did they release his name?
sibeal		No. But I made a few calls, still got some friends in the diocese there. McKinney. Father Douglas McKinney.
connor		Knew of him. Everybody did. A regular Mother Theresa. Youth hostels, soup kitchens. Even made it into the newspapers sometimes.
sibeal		Listen boys. I think it's best that ya just stay put and we'll try ta figure out what...
duffy		We need to keep our heads, here.   It's probably not even them.
dolly		Of course it ain't them but that doesn't really matter, does it. Our skeletons just came screaming out of the closet. We're fucked.
duffy		We're not fucked.
greenly		We are totally fucked!
greenly		...and not just fucked, like elephant dick, pounded in the ass, no reach around, jungle fucked!
duffy		Now's not the time to panic, Green beans!
greenly		Oh, I disagree. Now's the perfect time to panic. We're all Accessories to...
dolly		Don't you fucking say it!
dolly		I didn't even know he had a protege. What is this bullshit?
duffy		Special Agent Eunice Bloom, 32 years old. Smecker plucked her right out of class at Quantico.
greenly		Smecker hand picked her? Aw, man. This brawd's gonna be a nightmare.
duffy		She was assigned to OCD two years back. She can shoot a gun, set three course records during her training.
greenly		Great. A bull dike, Annie Oakley wanna- be. We gotta get rid of her.
duffy		She is also an authority on the Saints case. Which means Smecker must have walked her through it.
dolly		And the hits just keep on comin'.
sibeal		Well, are ya at least gonna try ta talk them out of this?
sibeal		What's dat?
sibeal		Jesus Christ! D'er's too much we don't know and if you're won't at least try ta talk some sense into them, I will!
murphy		Every last motherfucker that had anything to do with it.
dolly		Game time.   How are we playing this?
duffy		Feds love to pull the divide and conquer routine. We hard line her. Stick together on this. Agreed?
dolly		Agreed.   We're a brick wall.
greenly		Let's rock this bitch.
eunice		  Eunice Bloom. A pleasure.
greenly		T'sup...I mean, what? Yeah, well, funny as in ha ha, though not like funny as in gay cuz...I'm not...played high school football.
dolly		Look, with all due respect, Agent Bloom...
eunice		Special.
dolly		Excuse me?
eunice		You see there's a "special" before my "agent." If we are going to address each other formally, I'd prefer if you popped it in there. Makes me feel, I don't know...special. Of course, I'd hoped we could be a little more personable. In fact, I'd like you to call me Eunice.
duffy		O'kay, Eunice. I don't see why the fuck the Fed is...
eunice		Whoa, whoa, "fuck?" This isn't a "fuck" situation, is it? I can see a "God Damn" or two but why skip all the way to "fuck" right off the bat? Let's start slow and work our way up to it.
duffy		What is the Fed's interest in this? The detectives harden, brick wall.     Eunice furrows her brow.
eunice		Their interest, Detective, is capturing the men responsible for the murders of 22 of Boston's finest criminals. Y'see public perception is that these boys stepped in, did our jobs for us and then disappeared into thin air as we fecklessly searched for them. The FBI tends to take exception to such things. They coulda sent anyone. They sent me. Why do you think that is?  
11.		 EUNICE  It is because I am so fucking smart that I make smart people feel like retards. Now, we seem to be getting off on the wrong foot here. I'd appreciate a bit of cooperation. Let's chalk it up to paying respect to the memory of a dearly departed mutual friend. A man who taught me everything I know.
duffy		The victim was killed late last night. When people gathered for morning mass, they found the front entrance chained and padlocked. A locksmith came out, cut the chain and surprise, surprise. Cell phones. Half of them called the cops. Half of them called the media. But regardless...word's out.
eunice		And it looks like that's just the way somebody wanted it. What say we scrape the shit off this cow's ass, fellas? Detective Greenly? Escort a lady onto the crime scene?
greenly		What?   No, yeah, no.   Of course.
eunice		Never touch the stuff.
eunice		It wasn't them...but I'm sure you boys already knew that.
duffy		The two "V's." The victim and venue don't add up.
eunice		Let's go with the venue first. Our perpetrators are devout. They would never commit such an act on sacred ground. And as for the victim?
dolly		All their vics were criminals. Clearly not the case here. So, it wasn't them which means this is a local matter and it falls under our jurisdiction. No need for Federal involvement so with all due respect...we'll see you later, Special Agent Bloom.
eunice		Man, I hate it when people say that. "With all due respect." Because it is inevitably followed by a disrespectful remark. I'll give you an example. With all due respect, Detective, this matter falls under whatever jurisdiction I fuckin' say it does.
duffy		Uh, so...let's just...what can you tell us about the shooters?
eunice		Shoo-ter. Singular. And I can tell you that he is left handed and how shall I put this delicately...? He's a short bastard.
dolly		  One guy, lefty, short.   Got it.
eunice		I'll show you what I'm talking about.
eunice		Detective Greenly, you're the victim.
greenly		David.   You can call me David.
eunice		Very well, David.
duffy		...one guy's holding two guns to the back of your head.
eunice		One guy.
eunice		Now, the victim falls forward.   If you please, David.
duffy		Left handed.
eunice		Yep, southpaw.  INT. FLASHBACK, CHURCH -- NIGHT BEFORE
dolly		But you said he was wicked short.
eunice		The Saints were later determined to be five foot eleven inches tall. It's just dumb luck that the Russian and McKinney are the exact same height.
dolly		That puts him at five, seven-ish. That's not uncommonly short.
eunice		The killer posed as a late night confessor. Once the victim entered the booth the killer had him isolated. No escape. Short stuff exits his confessional and kicks in the door of the priest's chamber...
eunice		Gave him a couple inches. We're looking at about five foot five, gentlemen.
greenly		That's wicked short.
eunice		Wicked.
deck hand		They're brawling in the hold!    Better get your bets in now!
connor		Why are his hands chained?
mexican seaman		Romeo's fast, man. He says the Frenchman can't lay a hand on him.
murphy		But he can't hit him back.
mexican seaman		That's the bet. He's got to last five minutes.
murphy		 This guy's fuckin' crazy. The brothers whip out money and give it to the Sailor.
both		Fifty on the Mexican.
romeo		You should never fight a Mexican, Frenchy. Pound for pound, the toughest mother fuckers on earth. Know why? We like pain. We like it, Pierre. I mean think about it, "tabasco sauce." What kinda fucked up people would even invent that shit?
romeo		Oh, shit.   FIRE! FIRE! The brothers emerge from the shadows, cutting them off.
romeo		Whoa!    Uh, merci, uh, si vous plait.
murphy		Just protectin' our investment.   Ya made us fifty bucks.
romeo		Oh, thank, God. Irish, huh?   Finally some class. I'm Romeo.
connor		 Connor.
murphy		Murphy.   Why were you yellin' "fire"?
romeo		I heard you were supposed to on t.v.
connor		That's if you're gettin' raped.
romeo		Oh...I'd be more inclined to go with something like, "THAT DOESN'T GO THERE,  MAN!"
both		Quis praesumis profanus apud Dominus?   Who dares trespass in the house of God?
19.		 RADIO ANNOUNCER V.O.  His selfless contributions to the community too numerous to list. In related news, second generation crime boss, Concezio Yakavetta has not commented on whether he fears for his own safety.
both		Yakavetta?
concezio		So, there it is. I want everyone to feel free to share their thoughts.
concezio		Six years ago, with the backing of an adoring public, these vigilante fucks put my father on his knees and executed him...in public. Mi Patrigno, a blood relative and benefactor to all of you. Poppa Joe made you rich and his murder remains un-revenged...
concezio		Thank you, Doctor Phil. So, let's take a moment to look at the serendiplious, diperous, serendip...   ...type situation we find ourselves in here. There's a good chance they'll show. No catching us with our pants down this time. We can deal with them proactivitously. The cops were embarrassed by these guys too. With a second bite at the apple, they got every reason in the world to crank up the heat. And as for their doting public. I'd imagine they're gonna lose a few fans.
connor		The prodigal son, huh?   He wants us, he's fuckin' got us.
murphy		But why would he do something so public?
connor		Think about it. People figure we did it. Makes it more likely someone will drop a dime. Way easier to get to us in prison, isn't it, now.
murphy		But how would anyone recognize us?
connor		You don't remember those sketches on the news channel?
murphy		Shit. That's right. Y'know, every time they show those composites on TV and then they catch the guy, it looks nothin' like him. But ours?
connor		Just our luck. We get Leonardo fuckin' Divinci as a sketch artist.
murphy		Maybe we should dye our hair.
connor		What?
murphy		Yeah. These guys are always dyin' their hair. You know, like in "The Fugitive." It's covert and shit.
connor		What color would you dye it?
murphy		I don't know...lighter, I guess.
connor		Y'mean...blonde?
murphy		I didn't say that!
connor		California, surfer boy, gay, gay blonde?!
murphy		I'm warnin' ya!
connor		Just keep your hands off my ass back there and, "stay gold, Pony Boy."
murphy		Fuck you!
connor		 AAAAAH!
murphy		Serves ya right!
romeo		Oh, shit.
murphy		 SHUT IT!
romeo		Oh, this is so fucking cool, man. I'm from Boston. I love you guys. Shit, everybody does! I mean, holy fucking shit! Maybe I could get in on this, you know? Bring some La Raza ta this thing. Spice it up a little. Hey, is it true you guys say a prayer before you grease somebody?
connor		And an awesome wailing was heard throughout heaven...
murphy		...as the terrible hand of the Lord struck upon the earth.
connor		And as Almighty God created you...he now calleth you home.
murphy		Let's have a shot while we're waitin'.
romeo		That shit was NOT funny, man!
connor		No.
romeo		But I got conex all over Bean Town. Romeo'll hook you up like a tow truck!
murphy		No.
romeo		Why not?!
murphy		We don't hafta give you reasons. Forget it.
romeo		It's because I'm Mexican, isn't it!
connor		How dare you, sir, insinuate such a thing? The fact that you're a greasy spic's got nothin' ta do with it.
romeo		I'm gonna let you have that one. Look. I can do this. It's not rocket science. You two find bad guys doing bad shit and you kill them, right?
connor		It's not that simple.
murphy		Yes it is.
connor		S'pose you're right. I'd sorta hoped we were a little more artistic than that.
romeo		Well, you ain't. Can't you guys see it? This shit's fate, man. Like preordained type shit. Mea fucking Culpa! Why do you think you just happened to be in that hatchway today?
murphy		Oh, don't start gettin' all super fuckin' natural on us. We saw those guys goin' in there!
romeo		Ah, ha! That's what you say. I say it's because Jeeeeesus wanted it that way!
connor		Oh, no.
romeo		Fine. Then what exactly do you intend to do when you hit U.S. soil?
connor		We'll go after all Yakavetta's people and operations till we get to the man himself.
murphy		Yeah, work our way up the food chain.
romeo		So, what's your first gig?    What's the first thing you gonna do?
connor		Well, I don't suppose we have a succinct plan, y'know, per se.
murphy		Yeah. It's not fully developed yet, y'know, as it were.
romeo		You two need to chill in the green room, sip on some Pellegrinos and let your manager handle the details. And you better get my Cub Scout badge ready. Cuz if you want to kick Yakavetta in the nuts, let him know you're in town...Romeo's got an ace in the hole for you.
cab driver		I think it's disgusting.   I wish they'd have stayed gone.
pedestrian		I don't believe it for a second!   No bleep-in way the Saints did it!
eunice		And that's all she wrote. Everything points in the same direction.
chief		Why would Yakavetta want them back here? Him of all people.
duffy		To have them executed. Revenge. Oldest motive in the book.
greenly		The Saints killed his daddy six years ago, right? He was inside when that happened doing a nickel for extortion.
dolly		Yeah. From inside he could only do so much. Since he got out nine months ago, the Yakavetta's have regained their original strength. Looks like their clearing all their open accounts.
chief		Well...it's a theory.
eunice		More than just a theory, Chief.
duffy		C.I.'s came back. Cold hits all around. Concezio Yakavetta and his six Capo Regime, all blood relatives, have disappeared.
chief		So?
greenly		So, it fits. He's gone to the mattresses with his top brass. He's protecting them till this is over.
eunice		And word's been put to all his lieutenants that the Saints are to be taken out, on sight.
dolly		That means his resources on the streets are battening down the hatches, waiting for them to show.
chief		Look, I been stone walling the media on this thing but the Mayor's been riding me like a rented mule here. I got half of New England thinking the Saints whacked a priest and the other half thinking their innocent. Its a powder keg. I'm talking riot gear at Celtics games, here. I could clear them of this murder, take the piss right out of this thing, keep the peace in the Commonwealth. Gimme one good reason why I shouldn't go public right now.
eunice		Walk with me, Chief.    Let's talk.
duffy		This is not good.   She's gunning for the boys hard.
dolly		This brawd, trying to put a feather in her cap is gonna get us locked up.
duffy		Just calm down.
greenly		And you know they'll send us to the Hoag. We put half those deranged sex freaks in there. I hope you guys like cock sandwiches. Cuz we'll be eating them for breakfast, lunch and dinner!
eunice		I understand you got a job to do, Chief. But if Yakavetta even sniffs that we're onto him, he puts a bullet in Napoleon's head, plants him at the bottom of the ocean and walks. This pint sized killer is the only thing that puts Yakavetta right in the middle of this. It is imperative that we find this man.
duffy		We need to figure what we're gonna do when the boys show and start doin' what they do best. Cuz that's when the shit's really gonna hit the fan.
dolly		That's another thing. Everyone's assuming that they're going to come back. I mean, we got no way of knowing that for sure.
greenly		 Yeah. That could totally happen.    They could not come back.
duffy		What dream world did you two just slip into?!
romeo		It's been all over the papers the last two years. Yakavetta's in bed with the Chinese. They're using international shipping routes to smuggle it in. This is Little Yaka's shit.
connor		Let's follow 'em down the rabbit hole, Alice.
murphy		You just scored a few points, Rome.
romeo		Well, dust off my "Members Only" jacket.  Cuz the kid has also supplied the ride!
murphy		I thought you said your car was inconspicuous.
romeo		I don't like words that got 'spic' right in the middle. Besides, it is...where I live.
murphy		Where's that? Pimpville?
romeo		Hey! I hail from a colorful people. Besides, you wouldn't know style if it pitched a tent in your ass!  What do you think of the ride, Conman?
connor		The only way I could be more embarrassed right now is if I was ridin' a moped.
murphy		Yeah...while fuckin' a fat girl.
connor		Yeah...rollin' through the gym at my high school reunion.
romeo		All right!   I get the fucking point!
connor		O'kay, here's the plan.
connor		We skin out, go ta Doc's for a shot of Irish. We're home in time for tacos.
murphy		Well, it's...uh...you know, it's...
romeo		It's genius. I can even drive an F- lift, man. Got my class "D" license and everything.
connor		Now, dat's the spirit.
romeo		I need a gun.
romeo		What the fuck? I'm in on this shit, man! I'm working here!
connor		You can consider yourself a fuckin' pledge until we say different.
romeo		Can I consider myself your girlfriend, too?
connor		That's what you get.   Is there a problem?
romeo		 It's fine.
murphy		Don't worry, Rome.   Shit like this builds character.
romeo		Yeah, the character of a little bitch.
murphy		Now, dat's just unprofessional.
connor		I think Yakavetta murdered a good man just to send us a message.
murphy		Well...let's send him one back.
dolly		 Why?
duffy		I don't know.
chief		Your boss, John Kuntsler called. Tells me you got a problem with authority.
eunice		Absolute horse pucky, Chief. Unfortunately, authority's developed a problem with me.
chief		And what's that?
eunice		Well, y'see, I am currently in possession of a vagina.
chief		Oh, Jeez, that's not...
eunice		So you spoke to Kuntsler.      Anything else.
chief		If it's confirmed that the Saints are back and too many bodies start showing up with pocket change...  ...he's gonna pull you and step in.
eunice		Message delivered, Chief.
chief		Listen.    I'll fend him off.    Just work fast.
greenly		It's not them.
eunice		It's them.
dolly		What do you think happened here?
eunice		Oh, this was a plan that fell to pieces. A lot here doesn't make sense which is why it makes perfect sense. I believe things in our fair little city just got downright biblical.
dock worker		You didn't have to bash me in the skull.
romeo		Sorry, man. We got a plan going, here. Technically, I was supposed to knock you out.
dock worker		Christ! You got a gun. You could have just pointed it at me and said SCRAM!
connor		 SCRAM!
dock worker		You got it!
romeo		So, let's not let this one, small incident get in the way of...
connor		Shut up and get behind the fuckin' wheel!
murphy		Well, at least the plan is off to a winning start.
connor		Go fuck y'rself.
murphy		How the fuck would you know?
connor		Fuck you.    I know shit.
murphy		Jesus!    What the fuck's he doin'?!
connor		He can't see where he's goin'!
murphy		Shit!    Tell him to go left, now!
connor		Go left!    Go left!
romeo		What?!
murphy		I can't fuckin' believe I let you talk me into this! This is a stupid plan!
connor		I didn't notice you throwin' out any ideas, ya creative asshole!
murphy		Fuck you!
romeo		Hey!   What's goin' on in there?!
murphy		Jesus Christ! Tell him to stop!
connor		 BRAKES!   BRAKES! BRAKES!
brothers		And shepherds we shall be, for Thee, my Lord, for Thee. Power hath descended forth from Thy hand, that our feet may swiftly carry out Thy command. So, we shall flow a river forth to Thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be.  
38.		 BROTHERS  In Nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti.
dolly		Just got a call from my best snitch. Never steered me wrong. He says its this guy.  "Gorgeous" George Tuffano. He's trusted bruglione to Yakavetta but not blood. He's been left control of the streets. He's running all of it.
greenly		They call him "Gorgeous" cuz he likes his silk suits and jewelry. He's even got the 'out of season' fake bake going on, a real peacock, this guy.
eunice		Yeah, I heard of this rodeo clown. Duffy approaches, hands Eunice a tiny bullet in a baggy.
duffy		Ballistics just dug it out.
eunice		A twenty two? You gotta be kidding me. That's like bringing a knife to a gunfight.
greenly		Yeah, or like bringing a really small gun...to a gunfight.
duffy		I don't know. Ballistics is reading three shooters. This is one of them.
eunice		Well, I'm having a hard time believing that one of the three most lethal individuals on the planet just switched over to bird shot.
dolly		Maybe we're reading it wrong. The priest was a frame job, right?
duffy		Yeah, maybe somebody's trying to eliminate some competition here.
eunice		No, sir. It's them. But we just might have ourselves a change in the line up, here.
greenly		Fine, they're back.   What's the plan?
eunice		Hell, we've just been called up to the big show. We are tracking multiple perpetrators, gentlemen. The plan? We keep our ear to the ground and try to figure out where Yakavetta's hiding. Napoleon. We find him and flip him. And as for the Saints...I'm gonna have me a face to face with these boys one way or the other.
dolly		Holy...fucking...shit.
doc		 BOYS!
connor		Sound as an Irish pound, Doc.
murphy		Is it too late for a shot?
doc		Oh, the Lord told me you'd be comin! He said, "Doc, they're comin" and I was ta get everting ready. So I did. Everting's ruh, ruh, ruh, it's all set.
romeo		Uh, hem!
murphy		Oh, this is our Mexican.
doc		 How are ya, lad? They call me...FUCK!...ASS!
romeo		Nice to meet you, Fuck Ass, I'm Romeo.
the brothers		Holy shit.
doc		The place used ta be an old speak easy in the forties. I only use it for storage, now.
romeo		This is so fucking cool.
doc		Nobody even knows it's up here. You'll be safe.   You can get in and out the fu-fu-fire escape.
romeo		You know what this is? This is our hide out, man! We got a hide out!
connor		What are you, fucking five years old?
murphy		Hey, Rome, we got sheets and broomsticks. You could build yourself a fort.
romeo		Fuck the both of you!
doc		  Not this time, ya little shit.
connor		We'll see, old man.
doc		 FUCK!
connor		...me up the...
doc		 ASS! The boys and Romeo burst into hysterics.   Doc rages.
george		Oh, yeah.     Someone's been eating their Wheaties.     Yeah, get after it, girl.
eunice		What did you just call me?
george		Who are you?
eunice		Why, I'm a lady, George. That fact alone demands a certain amount of...  ...cordiality.
george		I'm, I'm sorry I called you that.
eunice		Well, how courteous of you to apologize. Courtesy is so important. Don't you agree?
george		Y, yeah...I'm with that.
eunice		Good.   Now sit your fat ass down.
george		I don't know.
eunice		Yeah. There's a lot of stuff you don't know, Hoss. For instance, why aren't you safely tucked away in some ivory tower with all the other big wigs, sucking on cannoli and shrimp cocktail? Why are you the one he left on the streets, George?
george		Someone's gotta run our legitimate businesses. Someone's gotta make sure that...
eunice		Someone's gotta chum the waters.
george		That's bullshit and I ain't saying another fucking word to you.
eunice		Good. Then you can just listen. The jig is up. We know Concezio had that priest killed.
45.		 EUNICE  By the by, you got a pretty nice ass for a fat man.
cesar		Word is, Yakavetta's gunning for you boys hard. The whole city's on edge. I even heard he posted a reward like Jesse James style and shit. Any of his guys that take you out gets his palm crossed, two hundred and fifty grand.
romeo		Whew.   A quarter of a mill for us?
cesar		Us? What the fuck are you talking about "us?"
romeo		Uncle, why do you have to disrespect me in front of them?!
cesar		Cool it, Mr. Big Shot! A year ago you were washing my pots and pans!
romeo		Well, I don't wash fucking pots anymore! I'm part of this, Uncle!
cesar		Hey! This isn't my first bar-b-que! Now shut up and stop interrupting! Let me talk to them and I'll figure out whether your in on this or in your own fucking fantasy world!
murphy		He's in.   All the way in.
cesar		Is my nephew pulling his weight?
connor		Mucho corazon.
cesar		Gorgeous George is running the show for Little Yaka. Drugs, prostitution, sharking, the whole cha cha. If anybody knows where he is, it's that fat fucking pedico. I'll put it out on the wire.
murphy		Hey, uh, maybe we should...
connor		Shut up.   Romeo's crying.
romeo		You fucking assholes!
george		Oh! Like the Roman Empire in here! Where's all the concubines and shit?
george		I need to see the Boss, right away.
concezio		Get over here!
george		Whoa!
concezio		Push the talk button, numb nuts.
george		Oh.  Can you here me? Over.
concezio		I can hear you fine, Smokey and the Bandit. Now, what the fuck are you doing here?
george		Everything's in motion. All our guys are gunning for these Jesus Freaks. I figure, no need for me to be on the streets no more. So, which room do I take, eh?
concezio		You stupid motherfucker! I told you, you're on the streets till this is over! Now get the fuck outta here!
jo jo		A priest.   The sick fuck.
george		And he leaves all of us on the streets holding the bag while him and his are living it up at the Taj fuckin' Majal, not a care in the world.
jo jo		So, until the Saints get popped, we're all lambs to slaughter?
george		Yeah! And he don't care how many of us they wipe out in the meantime!
jo jo		What do you need me to do, Skipper?
george		Spread the word to all the brugliones. No bullshit. From your mouth to their ears.
jo jo		Everyone? North and South?   That could get a little dicey.
george		Fuck their old grudges. All of them are in this, like it or not. Tell them everything we discussed.
jo jo		Even the panic room thing?
george		Sure.
jo jo		Good. That's a nice ice breaker. They'll get a kick outta that. I didn't even know those things were real. I thought they made that shit up for that movie? With that brawd and that kid? With those guys in that house?
george		Panic Room?
jo jo		Naw, the other one.
george		Stop fuckin' around! This is serious shit, here! Tell 'em we meet tomorrow night. I'll call you with the location.
greenly		Tap's up and running on George's cell.
eunice		 What's this?
greenly		Rosary bead. They found it pushed into the carpet near the victim. Father McKinney wasn't wearing a rosary so it's probably been there a while. Duffy comes in with a stack of papers.   He heaves it down.
duffy		The results on all 864 prints found at the scene. All match churchgoers or clergy but one. The partial on the priest's watch is still unidentified.
eunice		That's horse shit. Everyone gets printed nowadays. They're inking up snotgobblers in kindergarten, now.
dolly		It's a brick wall anyway. We know Napoleon was wearing gloves. Lab got zilch off the chain and lock. The pennies came up clean too.
eunice		  I'm gonna go powder my nose.
greenly		Aw, man. Daddy would knock that out like Mike Tyson.
eunice		McKinney wore his watch on his left hand.
duffy		Right here, off his left elbow.   Where are you going with this?
eunice		Dolly, get on the phone! Find out which wrist he wore his rosary on and if he was wearing it that night! Duffy, run that partial through DMV! David put it through INTERpol! Just get an I.D.! Now! Come on! Vamoose!
murphy		What the...did they use his mug shot?
connor		What?   No.
murphy		You remember how he told us he was embarrassed cuz the guy had to hold up all his long hair behind his head?
connor		Aye.
murphy		Look at that.
connor		Oh...that's fuckin' harsh.
murphy		Y'er one of a kind, Roc.
romeo		So, am I as good as this guy, or what?
connor		You, sir, are no David Della Rocco.
roy		Whoa!  Whoa! Whoa! Holy shit!  HOLY SHIT! You're the Saints! I'm Roy, it's an honor. Huge fan!
connor		We're developin' quite the cult following in the old neighborhood.
romeo		Que pasa.
cesar		I got that info you wanted, mijo.
romeo		We got him.
roy		 Pleased to meet you. I'm Roy.
romeo		How would you like me to sidekick you in the ass, Roy?
connor		  Let's go.
roy		I, I didn't mean to...
romeo		I'm sick of this shit! I've been breaking my balls, here and I get second banana billing! I...
murphy		I, I, I. There is no "I" in team, ya selfish prick.
romeo		Yeah?!   Well, there's an "I" in "Fuck you!
connor		Lovely voice. We'd like ya ta sing for us. What do ya say? George struggles and nods. Murphy hops off. George spills out, hot pink Speedos. On all fours and breathing heavy...
george		It's getting hard to be a fucking gentleman of leisure, here!
murphy		We want the shooter you motherfuckers used on that priest.
george		I don't know who it is.
connor		Where's Yakavetta hidin'?
george		The Prudential! Fortieth floor!   Jesus Christ!
connor		You meeting someone tonight, George?
george		Yeah.   The brugliones.
murphy		The what?
george		Yakavetta's racket chiefs. Street guys.  Your kind of guys. You could take a real bite outta crime here, huh? I could help you.
connor		 What's this?
george		Nobody forgot what you guys did to us last time. They're staying indoors. I give out the location an hour before.
romeo		My Uncle's place is closed tonight.    I got the key.
murphy		It's down by the docks.   Dead as a doornail at night.
connor		Yeah. You could set off fourth of July fireworks in dat place and nobody would hear. How's Mexican for you, George?
george		No difference to me. I think I just shit my Speedos, anyway.
eunice		How do, David?
greenly		Hey, DMV came up dry on the partial. INTERpol's still working it. Should only be another couple of hours.
eunice		Lovely.   Anything else?
greenly		Yeah. Nothing big. We just dumped a text message from George's cell. Just two words. "El Cava." It's a Mexican joint down by the docks. He sent it to his enforcer, Jo Jo Rhama. Guess gangsters gotta eat too, huh?
eunice		I think I'll drop in on their supper, see if I can shake them up a little.
greenly		You need a body guard?
eunice		No thank you, Mike Tyson.    Bye now.
greenly		Bye.
george		Just two more to go. Uh...You guys are gonna let me go, right?
murphy		We'll see, won't we.
george		Jesus, this is some embarrassing shit.
romeo		Si, muchachos.
romeo		These dagos are getting antsy and I'm getting Spicaroo'd and Pepe'd. The kid's about to go Poncho fucking Villa out there!
connor		Stick it out. Waitin' on one more.
crew cut		He is not with them.
old man		Are you certain?
crew cut		Yes. It is only the sons. They have a Spaniard with them. They will slaughter everyone.
old man		Let them. If you kill the sons...the father will come.
connor		The gang's all here.
romeo		Gimme my fucking bee bee gun.
murphy		Naw.   You've earned your stripes, Rome.
jo jo		So....where's Gorgeous?
murphy		It's Irish for "You're fucked."
romeo		Viva La Mejico, bitches!
george		Uh, I've seen the light! You guys have really turned me around on this! I'm like born again and shit! I swear!
murphy		 What do ya think? Let him go?
connor		We'll let God decide if you get a second chance.
murphy		Now, that was, perhaps the finest example of spiritual guidance that I have ever had the good fortune ta witness.
connor		Well, thank you very much.     Mysterious ways. Mysterious ways.
eunice		Easy fellas. I'm alone.
romeo		He's gone.
connor		Who are ya?
eunice		My name is Eunice Bloom...and I'm your new guardian angel. A torch was passed to me by a mutual friend, gone but not forgotten.
murphy		We heard about Smecker.    He was a good man.
connor		Aye.   You have our condolences.
eunice		And you have mine.
murphy		Murphy.
eunice		Very well...Connor, Murphy.
romeo		Who the fuck was that guy?!
eunice		That, I suspect, was the shooter you boys have been looking for.
romeo		Fucking...what the fuck?! Who the fuck is this brawd?! And what the fuck's going on, here?!
eunice		Let's speed this up before your new sidekick's got to dig any deeper into his impressive vocabulary.
romeo		Oh, no you didn't.
eunice		I am an FBI agent who is controlling this investigation from within, in order to ensure that you gentlemen never see the inside of a prison cell. I am conspiring to do this with three like minded individuals who have aided you in the past. Though I have yet to inform them of my agenda because, well, girl's gotta have her fun.
murphy		Dolly, Duffy and Greenly?
eunice		The very same.
connor		How are the lads?
eunice		Two of them are scared.   One's just horny.
murphy		Bet'cha I can guess which one.
eunice		Bet'cha can but let's save it for group. Right now, we have a big problem.
connor		What's that?
eunice		This...simply won't do. We made a deal. The big fish step in if your body count gets too high and...  ...you have been very naughty boys.
eunice		O'kay.   Here's how it all went down.
eunice		A secret gathering of the Brugliones. The topic of discussion? Weak leadership and betrayal.
eunice		The enemy of my enemy is my friend. So, even with all their old vendettas...
eunice		And there it is. Guess what comes next.
eunice		Ah. Easier uttered than accomplished. The North End and the South End may as well be the Hetfields and the McCoys. These fellas...they just don't get on.
eunice		Oh, the cliche. A Mexican stand off in a Mexican restaurant.
eunice		Yakavetta's lost control of the streets.  
66.		 EUNICE  They're fighting over his throne.      This was not the work of the Saints.
greenly		INTERpol came through.
eunice		Are you ready for your fifteen minutes, Sweetheart?
greenly		That ain't all. Short stuff's work visa was signed by a sponsor that doesn't exist and look at the date. Two months after Nine Eleven.
eunice		Someone maneuvered it through the system using false information during the highest alert in U.S. history.
dolly		Yakavetta's just a gangster. He ain't got the juice to pull that off.
eunice		You're darn tootin' he don't.
greenly		INS red flagged it like a motherfucker. It's a shit storm.
eunice		Something stanks like manure.
dolly		What is this? Where are we going?
eunice		It's time to revisit the scene of the crime.
greenly		It's after hours. I mean, if you wanted a drink then...
eunice		37 bodies later and we're finally back where it all began. Y'ever heard of the southern expression, "We have an elephant in the living room?"
duffy		You knew all along.
connor		What?    Ya don't call.   Ya don't write.
murphy		I'm glad we got the band back together...  ...even though our new bass player's kind of a retard.
connor		So, where'd you learn ta shoot like that?
eunice		My Daddy was an old six gun shooter.      A real cowboy.
murphy		Guess that makes you a cowgirl, eh? Thanks. Saved our asses.
eunice		Don't mention it. Now, we have a little business to go over before you celebrate in earnest.
connor		This is the guy?
eunice		That's the guy. He's a Sicilian immigrant, name of Ottilio Panza.
murphy		Five, five?    He's short bastard isn't he?
eunice		Yes...and well put. He'll be front page news in the morning but we have to assume Yakavetta already knows we've ID'd his guy. We can't give him time to 'Plan B' us.
murphy		We're hittin' him tomorrow night.   Dat soon enough?
eunice		Should be.   Where's it gonna happen?
connor		The Pru.
dolly		The Prudential Building?   What are you, cracked?
greenly		Why don't you just do it on center ice at a fucking Bruin's game?!
connor		Dat's where the man is so dat's where we're goin'. No guts no glory, Green Beans.
murphy		In fact, we could use a few extra hands...that is if you fellas can still get yer Irish on.
greenly		Hey, I got balls for days, pally.   I'm a fucking sack-o-matic.
eunice		 Well, you boys have fun. Connor, Murphy? Escort a lady to the door?
connor		Y'sure you don't wanna hear the plan? I'm not tryin' ta brag or nothin' but this one's a real Picasso.
murphy		Aw, Jesus.
connor		Hey.
eunice		School night. Got some homework to do. Besides, I'd like to critique your masterpiece with a fresh eye.
murphy		What is it?
eunice		Something ain't right with this whole thing. Panza knew you were in there tonight and he just let it happen. Didn't lift a finger. I mean, if he's working for Yakavetta, why would he stand by and just watch all his guys get taken out?
murphy		That is...interestin'.
connor		You think maybe we got another fox in the hen house here?
eunice		Starting ta look that way. Somebody pushed that visa through. Could have ourselves a gen-u-ine 'Ghost in the Darkness,' here.
crew cut		They still live...What if he does not come? What if...
old man		Shhhhh.   He will come.
gun dealer		Expanded my operation, since I saw ya last. Word got out who may or may not have outfitted ya. Turns out ya got quite the underground followin'.
gun dealer		Please, gentlemen. Preferred customers select from my private reserve.
murphy		I feel like that kid who found the gold ticket in the candy bar in "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory."
gun dealer		Charlie.
connor		Yeah...Charlie.  And I want an Oompa Loompa now, Daddy, now.
gun dealer		Full accessory packages.      I'm sure you'll find them useful.
romeo		I'll take these.
murphy		Have you been crying again?
romeo		Yeah!  Tears of joy!  How much?
gun dealer		You guys are on the house.
murphy		 Let's see.
romeo		What?
connor		Nothin'.
romeo		Are you saying I look gay?!
murphy		No.    You just hail from a colorful...
romeo		 You don't know me. You think these make me look gay? Romeo poses.    The Dealer shrugs.
gun dealer		You look like you might have seen one up close.
old man		Evidence?
old man		Foolish, arrogant boy!   What have you done?!
concezio		That wiley old fox not as clever as we thought. Or maybe he played me from the git. Y-you think he played me?
jimmy		Uh, Boss. Maybe you aught not to be telling me this stuff. I'm just...
concezio		A little sensitivity, huh? You heartless cocksucker! I need to vindicate my feelings here! I can't tell those goombas outside! They'll serve up my balls over a plate of fucking spaghetti!
concezio		I want each of you to call your top button man. The best you got. I want them all here tonight. We rip this city a new asshole. It's time for us to reconnoiter our strength on the streets. We seize the day starting now...Carpel Tunnel, gentlemen, Carpel Tunnel.
dolly		God speed. Romeo, in a laundry uniform, emerges from the back pushing a loaded laundry cart. He enters a...
murphy		What.
romeo		Nothing.
connor		Out with it! What the hell's the matter with ya?
romeo		Nothing! It's just...this is some heavy shit.
connor		Ya did fine at your uncle's place.
romeo		Yeah, but we're going off a new script here. I'm just having a...period of adjustment.
murphy		You're about to have a period of gettin' yer ass beat!
romeo		Hey! You two ain't the only ones rollin' with no health insurance! Just let me do my thing. I'm absorbing this.
connor		This is not the time for you to be absorbin' shit! Now, if ya freeze up when you get in there just point yer gay guns at 'em and fer Christ sakes, at least try ta look cool!
murphy		I thought you were all hot fer dis!
romeo		Oh, I'm hot! I'm fucking red hot! The kid's flamin' like Matt Damon in the Grande Camens!
connor		This is you. Be on time.
romeo		I'll be there.
connor		You ready fer dis shit, my dear brother?
murphy		 Let's do some gratuitous violence.
eunice		 On a sultry Saturday in September the Saints saved seventeen souls...try saying that five times fast.
greenly		Come on. There's nothing to be afraid of. It's all over.   He won't come out.
kuntsler		Special Agent Bloom! You are hereby relieved of all obligation to this investigation.
eunice		Just fine...Cunty.
kuntsler		Nice little science project you got going with these three goofballs.  You trying to turn them into your own little junior G-men? Well, you can put sprinkles on shit, Bloom, but it's still shit. So, you and your Keystone Cops can all go home now and let the professionals handle this?
eunice		Boy. I'd love to hear a gen-u-wine professional's assessment of a crime scene. How 'bout you, detectives?
kuntsler		O'kay. Seems pretty obvious. The door was broken down. We've got our point of entry. The assailants fired in this direction. 
78.		 KUNTSLER  Explains the windows. The victims were...
eunice		There are three inaccuracies in what you just said. Number one, David.
greenly		If the windows were shattered by gunfire coming from inside the room, the glass would have been blown outward. As you can see, most of it is on the inside.
eunice		Number two, Dolly.
dolly		Blood splatters in the direction of the rounds fired. If the assailants discharged toward the windows, the blood would follow suit. Here, the majority of splatter is in the opposing direction.
eunice		Number three, Duffy.
duffy		Trick question. There is no number three. He only fucked up twice.
eunice		  Looks like Bloomy aced her science project.
kuntsler		That was just off the...I would have seen the blood thing...I haven't even had time to...
eunice		Why don't you let me take a crack at it, John? Won't cost you nuthin'.
kuntsler		And just why would I do that?
eunice		Cuz, tonight...mamma's right on time.
eunice		This evening's topic of discussion? Desperate times require desperate measures.
concezio		Desperate times require...some, you know, some desperate shit. Starting tonight, every one of you fat fucking slobs is back on the streets and earning your daily bread.
eunice		Which brings us to the relevance of our new guests.
concezio		 Each one of you is to stick to the guy that called you here like glue. You arm yourselves to the teeth, pick your own crews. These bible banging psychos will make an attempt. It's your job to blow their souless hearts out of their chests.
eunice		It's time to reclaim the streets with an iron fist.
concezio		We gotta take back what's ours with some sincere ironfistery.
eunice		Let's explain the glass, now.   Why is most of it inside the room?
connor		Creative!   It's a creative plan!
murphy		It's ridiculous! Probably based on some stupid shit ya saw in a movie! And here I am AGAIN all tyin' myself up with rope! What is the deal with you and rope?! Honestly!
connor		It happens ta be a useful thing!
duffy		You didn't get this from a movie...did you?
connor		The "Eiger Sanction," Clint Eastwood! And it worked like a fucking charm for him!
romeo		O'kay Lloyd Cranston of 135 Liberty Lane, apartment 3C.  Good. Now, I've run into a little snag. I need to figure out a tag line. You know, something cool to say when it's all over like..."I'll be back," but mine, y'know? I need to own this one. I think this'll help me get through the quote, unquote event. I'm going to take your gag off and you and me are going to riff a little, o'kay? Let's have fun with this.
lloyd		I can't believe you! I'm a fucking janitor. What do I know about bullets and slaughter and shit?
romeo		Not riffing, Lloyd! Now, I need an "Hasta La Vista" line, toute fucking suite and you're gonna help me think of one!
eunice		And you can count on it like the U.S. mail. Through rain, sleet, hail or snow...something always seems to go wrong for these poor sons o' guns.
connor		What the fuck?
greenly		 I don't know! It just stopped!
murphy		Well, get it fuckin' goin' again!
greenly		It won't turn back on!     It just died!
brothers		 OH, SHIT!
connor		How much time?!
duffy		 Sixty Seconds!
murphy		We gotta go now!
duffy		What are you talking about!?
connor		If we're even a few seconds late, Romeo's dead! We gotta go!  We're down thirteen stories!
murphy		Eleven more to go!     Ball park it!
brothers		One floor, two, three...
murphy		  The fuckin' Eiger Sanction.
lloyd		Uh..."Take that, suckers!"
romeo		Not cool enough.
lloyd		Uh, "Merry Christmas, mother fuckers!"
romeo		Too sacrilegious.
lloyd		Oh God, uh, how about "Eat it!"
romeo		What are we at, a buffet, now?
lloyd		Good God, man! I'm a...
romeo		Hang on, you might be onto something with the buffet thing, like with food, y'know? Let's brainstorm on that idea for a minute.
murphy		 TIME?!
duffy		 JESUS CHRIST! SEVEN SECONDS...SIX...  FIVE...
eunice		One...thing has always amazed me.
eunice		We gon have us a good time...
eunice		...in the old barn tonight!
eunice		 YEEEEEEE HAAAAAAAW!!!
both		And shepherds we shall be, for Thee, my Lord, for Thee. Power hath descended forth from Thy hand, that our feet may swiftly carry out Thy command.  
86.		 BOTH  So, we shall flow a river forth to Thee and teeming with souls shall it ever be.
romeo		"Who ordered the whup ass fajita!?"
murphy		What?
connor		Whup ass fajita?
eunice		Hold up, now.
romeo		It's just...I couldn't think...I
eunice		Shhhhhh.  Ya broke down the door, didn'tcha?
romeo		Ding dong, motherfucker, diiiing dong!
murphy		Exactly.
connor		You said it.
eunice		And that, gentlemen...is the sound of the fat lady singin'.
greenly		Should we...clap or something?
duffy		Shut up.
kuntsler		Hey!
duffy		Eunice!    Oh, shit!    Eunice! Greenly slams the talk button.
greenly		If you hurt her, you piece of shit, I will kill you! Do you fucking hear, me? I'll kill you!
jimmy		I'm sorry!   I'm sorry!   I wasn't gonna hurt you!
eunice		You bet your ass you weren't.
jimmy		Just lemme explain. I have information, like pertinent information. Ouch! Look, I was listening to you out there and that's, like, exactly what happened. That's what made me think you were the person to talk to.
eunice		Yakavetta had a partner, didn't he.
jimmy		Yeah.
eunice		You saw this fella?
jimmy		Yeah. It was only one time and just for a second but I think I could ID him. I don't know his name, though. Concezio always called him the "Old Man" accept one time when he called him something else, like he fucked up and I wasn't supposed ta hear it.
eunice		What was it?
jimmy		He called him...the Roman.
greenly		 Did this little motherfucker...?
eunice		Easy, David. I'm fine. C'mon gents, we're leaving. This is the Fed's problem, now.
kuntsler		Hey! What happened in there?      What was said to you, Agent?
eunice		You got him in custody. Ask him yourself. You're the professional.
dolly		Yeah, professional moron.
duffy		I got no idea. That's just weird. The Roman? What do you think it means?
eunice		Feels like our ghost ta me.
dolly		What do we do now? I mean, the brothers ain't goin' nowhere until we get Panza or they do.
eunice		We've all had enough excitement for one night. Let's sleep on it.
murphy		When's Romeo returnin' to the "hide out?'
connor		Soon as he's done apologizin' to his uncle for wreckin' his restaurant.
murphy		And he should be sorry.   The disrespect.
doc		Hold your damn horses!
greenly		Sack-o-matic, I said!
murphy		I got nothin'!
connor		One in the hole.
doc		Boys!
crew cut		Put dem down! Throw dem over!
murphy		Jesus Christ!
connor		Doc!   Call da fuckin' ambulance! As they hold Greenly and beg him to hold on, we move to Poppa M standing over Crew Cut. Crew Cut looks up at him in awe.
crew cut		You.
crew cut		Never.
murphy		Just hold on.
connor		Hang in there, brother.     They're comin'.
greenly		Naw, boys...it's over. Don't worry...proudest day of my life.
brothers		Da!
murphy		What the fuck's he doin'?
brothers		 JESUS CHRIST! Connor rushes over and grabs up the shotgun.
connor		I'm gonna blow this mother fucker's brains out, right now!
crew cut		Make me famous.
crew cut		 FUCK YOU!!!
murphy		What are ya talkin' about, Da?
94.		 POPPA M  Had a little shop and I was to learn the family business. Mafia was everywhere in those days.
jacob		I can't help ya with dat, lads. Ya got problems with your shoes, I'd be happy to have a look, got fair prices.
louie		Il ochio de dio! We gotta call the polizia, Noah! We gotta call somebody!
louie		I, I, I...am his friend.
louie		  Easy, Noah...easy friend.
louie		Why should we not help others who suffer these Mafia thugs?
murphy		Jesus.
connor		So...how'd ya end up inside, Da?
murphy		Wait...why did he set you up?
connor		Why didn't ya flip on him? Cut down yer time? The guy fucked ya.
connor		Why the hell not?
connor		Do you know Louie's full name?
duffy		Hello.
connor		It's me.   Put Eunice on. Connor hands the phone to Poppa M.      DISSOLVE TO...
eunice		I hope they do it slow...you piece of shit.
patronazzi		Si.
old man		Hello, old friend.
patronazzi		Many years.    Are you in need?
old man		Yes. I am making marinara and alas, I have run out of tomatoes. To help an old friend...how many can you spare?
patronazzi		I am in good supply of tomatoes.
rocco		Come on.     The game's starting.
rocco		So, how's things going?
murphy		Maybe we should.
connor		You're sure, Roc? You know this?
rocco		No...I   just have faith. And for a second   there, you almost did too. Y'see,   it's contagious. And if enough people   catch it...look out, baby.
connor		While the wicked stand confounded...
murphy		...call me with Thy Saints surrounded.
eunice		He lives in York Maine. About 30 minutes from here. Better go quick. I logged on to an FBI database to get the info. Homeland Security does internal monitoring now. Only a matter of time before they flag it.
eunice		I hear Costa Rica's nice.
kuntsler		Anybody word from Bloom, yet?
kuntsler		I want that little Bayou Bitch in here. Something stinks about this whole thing.
kuntsler		This is S.A.I.C., Jonathan Buford Kuntsler! Security code A4153B! I need an immediate R2 law enforcement override clearance!
kuntsler		Everyone in the tri-state area with a gun!
roman		Noah.
roman		My garden. She is beautiful, yes?     Ah, but you. You are blind to beauty.     You are a destroyer, Noah.
roman		But do you? You think it was for your father? No. You were born a killer. Death...is in the very blood that runs through your veins.
roman		Then explain this.
roman		I am a creator. You see? Our very natures stood in opposition as old as the story of the scorpion and the frog.
roman		You can never understand.
roman		I wanted to join with them. They were building an empire. Creating something and I was helping them! I used you, Noah, to eliminate their problems, to destroy their competition, to cut out their cancers. I earned my place among them.
roman		Alas, the scorpion and the frog both lost everything, yes? I should have paid more attention to the story.  
106.		 ROMAN  Without you...I was no longer useful to them. They cast me out!
kuntsler		The location is to be surrounded and secured upon arrival! Nobody goes in!
roman		Because I knew it would bring you and your sons. You would destroy the Yakavettas and clear my way. This time, I will take what is rightfully mine. Just a little piece, for my old age. After all, I have never been a greedy man.
connor		Oh, no, no, no.
murphy		Aye.    It is...it is, Da.
connor		...e fili...
murphy		...e Spiritu Sancti.
sally mcbride		...still in a coma. The condition of Romeo Mata, the young Hispanic American allegedly operating with the Saints remains critical.
ballplayer		It doesn't change anything. What they did is still more important. It's still the issue.
comedian		They deserve medals.
politician		They deserve the death penalty.
ballplayer		Well, I know this! They certainly don't belong in prison.
****Dialogues from script :Bottle_Rocket.txt****

bottle rocket		 screenplay by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson
dignan		What color hair does he have?
anthony		Black hair. Paul Michael Glaser.
dignan		Making Hutch David Soul?
anthony		Right. The blond guy.
dignan		OK. That's wrong.
anthony		Dignan, it's --
dignan		Plus where's Huggie Bear?
anthony		He's not there. Huggie Bear isn't in every single episode.
dignan		I think you might of dreamed this one, Anthony.
anthony		No. It's a real episode. The killer is leading him across the city by calling different pay phones.
dignan		Why?
anthony		As part of his plan. I don't know why.
dignan		See, that's what I'm saying. It has the logic of a dream.
anthony		The point is the killer always goes, May I speak to Starsky? He says his name.
dignan		 What does Starsky say?
anthony		He says. This is he.
dignan		This is he?
anthony		No. This is he.
anthony		Did you see what I meant about the window?
dignan		Kind of. Except we've already got the keys.
anthony		That's true. But what if they change the locks?
dignan		Would they do that?
anthony		Who knows? That's why I filed it down.
anthony		Now that window can never be locked. It's impossible.
dignan		See, your mind is very good with the more mechanical details. Whereas my strength would be --
woman		Can I use your Tabasco?
anthony		Sure.
anthony		You don't see many women who like Tabasco.
anthony		She's really kind of hot.
dignan		 She's an attractive older woman.
bob		Well, what do you think?
dignan		I don't know, Bob. What about one of those?
bob		I'm not allowed to drive those.
dignan		Not even for emergencies?
bob		 No.
dignan		I thought your parents were in Italy.
bob		They are.
dignan		So who's going to know?
bob		My brother.
anthony		Future Man.
bob		Who?
anthony		Futute Man. You know. Cause he looks like he's from the future.
dignan		He looks like he was designed by scientists. For desert warfare.
bob		That never would of --
dignan		Let's cut the bullshit.
anthony		It's got a V-8, Dignan.
dignan		What do you think the cops have?
bob		If you're that worried, maybe we should just steal one.
dignan		What are you talking about, Bob?
bob		Can you use a coaster.
anthony		Did you ever steal a car bdfore?
bob		Yeah. I've stolen two cars before. One Jaguar. And one Trans-Am. With T-Tops. That Trans-Am was fun to drive.
dignan		You stole a Trans-Am.
bob		Yes. I did.
dignan		OK, Bob.
bob		It's true, Dignan.
dignan		Well. What do you want to do? You want to steal one or just drive your car?
bob		 I'll just drive my car.
dignan		Anthony, we'll get two hundred for the coin collection alone. That's less than what it's appraised at.
anthony		But Dignan, do you really know that much about rare coins?
dignan		I know about money, Anthony. I know the value of money. Plus the earrings are worth three times that.
dignan		Your ball.
anthony		I told you not to take the earrings.
dignan		You got another ball.
dignan		I'm playing your game.
anthony		The list, Dignan. I know you remember the list because you signed it. "Things Dignan was not supposed to touch."
dignan		Every valuable item in the house was on that list.
anthony		That doesn't make any difference. I bought those earrings for my mother on her birthday. They have a very special value for her.
dignan		Yeah, but I can't be sorting through that shit in the middle of a burglary. There's just not time for it.
anthony		Then you shouldn't of gone in there, Dignan. Maybe we should of robbed your house. Did you ever think of that?
anthony		What?
anthony		Where are you going?
dignan		I don't appreciate you ridiculing me.
anthony		How was I ridiculing you?
dignan		You're making fun of my family. You know there's nothing to steal from my mom and Craig. You know exactly what you're saying.
anthony		That's not what I meant, Dignan.
dignan		Did you see that?
anthony		Yeah, I saw it.
dignan		I'm lookout.
anthony		Dignan, it's got an alarm.
dignan		I don't think so. Just reach on in.
anthony		That sets it off.
dignan		No, just do it real quick.  I'll meet you down there.
anthony		It had an alarm.
dignan		Yeah, I heard that.
anthony		 Five, seven, eight dollars.
dignan		 Holy shit. What'd I tell you?
anthony		Eight dollars.
dignan		That's not bad.
anthony		What do herbs have to do with it? I don't understand the --
bob		Pot is an herb. It's just like any type of gardening.
dignan		How much could you grow? Realistically.
bob		As much as I want. When these plants bud I'll probably have about six thousand dollars worth of weed.
dignan		Six thousand dollars? Come on, Bob.
bob		You should take a look. I have an entire crop in my backyard.
anthony		In your backyard? How do you protect them?
bob		It's private property. Plus I have Hector.
anthony		Hector woudn't do anything.
bob		But he's got a loud bark. That's the most important thing is a loud bark.
dignan		If it's that easy why doesn't everybody grow them?
bob		Good question.
bob		Don't you guys tell anybody about my plants.
dignan		You're paranoid, Bob.
bob		Yeah, but don't tell anybody.
anthony		Could you grow cinnamon?
bob		I don't know. Sure, I guess.
anthony		You could make your own cinnamon toast.
bob		Are you a fag?
little richard		You're the faggot.
bob		Little Richard. I don't believe it. They'll let anybody in this place. Sit down.
bob		Dignan and Anthony, this is Little Richard. He's crazy. Totally nuts.
little richard		 I don't know about that.
bob		Little Richard. Trust me. You're insane. Jesus, this guy used to carry a percussion bomb around in his trunk. You do not want a guy like that loose on the streets.
little richard		It seemed like a good idea at the time.
bob		The one and only Little Richard.
dignan		Are you named after THE Little Richard?
little richard		 Ha! Ha! Ha! Why don't you stick it up your ass. Great group of guys you're hanging out with.
dignan		What was that all about?
bob		I can't believe you said that.
dignan		What did I say?
bob		I told you he's crazy.
anthony		But he didn't say anything.
dignan		Hang on a second.
dignan		Little Richard. Wait a second. Hang on. I didn't mean to --
anthony		Let them fight.
bob		Let them fight.
dignan		 Anthony.
anthony		OK. Break it up. Break it up.
dignan		I separated my shoulder.
anthony		OK. Hang on.
dignan		Just pull straight up. Anthony pulls up hard on Dignan's arm. Dignan tries not to yell, then suddenly he's OK and relieved.
anthony		Is it back in?
dignan		 Yeah.
dignan		No. I'm not fighting anymore.
anthony		His shoulder went out, man. It's over.
little richard		Bob?
dignan		The guy is fucking insane.
bob		I warned you, Dignan.
dignan		You said it like it was a big joke, Bob. Like he's wild.
bob		No, I was saying crazy like a lunatic.
dignan		I know that now. He's a fucking psycho.
bob		Well, don't blame me. I told you.
dignan		I do blame you, Bob. And woah. Look at her.
dignan		Loop around real fast.
anthony		Just turn right here.
dignan		Where'd she go?
bob		Maybe she turned.
anthony		There she is.
anthony		Bob, don't be so obvious.
dignan		I think we might of scared her.
bob		Let's just go.
dignan		You blew it, Bob.
temple		A gun is a firearm. A pistol is a firearm. But anything you hold in your hand is a weapon. A knife. A wrench. A ballpoint pen.
anthony		A ballpoiht pen?
temple		Anyone who tells you a ballpoint pen is not a weapon needs intensive psychiatric treatment. You can stick them in the esophagus. You give them a ballpoint tracheotomy.
dignan		OK. Escape route. The most important thing you can have is an escape route. Just in case somebody's tailing us. Or even chasing us, as the case may be --
anthony		You think we're going to be chased?
dignan		That's a good question. No. I don't. I'm just being hypocritical here. However, I will say --
bob		 I'm going to take a look at this.
dignan		 Hang on This is important, Bob. Anthony and I are responsible for the internal situation. The money and the people. You're responsible for the external situation. The streets and the getaway.
bob		 That's my responsibility.
dignan		That's your domain.
bob		OK.
dignan		Now. One thing we need to discuss is timing. Timing is absolutely crucial. What are you doing? Anthony!
anthony		 Nothing. Go ahead.
bob		 How many bullets can that hold?
dignan		Bob.
bob		I'm paying attention. I just want to look at it for a minute.
dignan		 What's your fucking problem? You're a shithead!
bob		I just want to see how much bullets it takes.
dignan		Anthony, give me the fucking gun!
anthony		 No, Dignan. It's not your gun. It's all of ours.
bob		 I paid for it.
dignan		God DAMMIT.
dignan		You two just don't give a shit, do you?
anthony		Dignan, calm down.
dignan		 You're out! I'm not working with either one of you!
anthony		Dignan! Stop!
anthony		Calm down. Take a deep breath.
dignan		 You're right. You're right.
future man		What are you guys doing?
anthony		Nothing. We're just --
future man		You seen my brother?
dignan		He's inside.
girlfriend		 Hi.
future man		Goddammit, Bob! Get your shit together.
future man		What are you guys up to tonight?
anthony		Nothing much.
dignan		Just hanging around.
girlfriend		Bye.
dignan		What'd Future Man want?
bob		He doesn't get it. Held never understand what we're trying to accomplish here. It's too dangerous for him.
dignan		Well, in reality it's not that dangerous, Bob. It's only dangerous if you don't know what you're doing.
bob		Yeah, but what if some nut pulled gun on you?
anthony		The only nut with a gun is going to be Dignan.
dignan		 You know, Bob, Anthony did kill someone. He electrocuted our janitor senior year.
bob		He electrocuted someone?
dignan		It was an accidental. I don't want to go into the details. It was just one of those senior pranks that didn't really go right. I mean, obviously, since Swifty's dead. That's why Anthony never graduated.
bob		His name was Swifty?
dignan		Yeah. One of the nicest old guys you'd ever know.
bob		That's too bad.
dignan		 You know, when somebody gets electrocuted, their skin starts smoking. At least Swifty's did.
bob		What are you doing?
dignan		I'm putting a piece of tape on my nose.
dignan		 Let's get lucky.
anthony		I left my sweater inside.
anthony		Do you have a lost and found?
employee		We're closed.
anthony		I left my sweater in there.
employee		Oh. I see. Come on in.
employee		We're closed, sir.
dignan		Where's that guy going?
employee		He left his sweater.
dignan		Well, I left some money in there.
employee		Where?
dignan		 In the cash relister. Step away from the door.
anthony		Where's the manager?
dignan		Where's the other stocker?
anthony		There's another stocker, right?
dignan		We know there's another stocker.
employee		Rob?
dignan		Where is he? Where is Rob?
employee		I don't know. Maybe in literature. That's his section.
dignan		You got that?
anthony		Sure. Literature. The classics.
anthony		Is that the manager?
dignan		 Check the aisles.
anthony		Rob?
rob		 Uh-huh?
anthony		Why aren't you in literature?
rob		 It's all full up.
dignan		Open it up.
dignan		OK. Open the other. Let's go.
dignan		Put it in one of those.
dignan		A bigger one, you idiot.
manager		 Don't call me an idiot, you punk.
dignan		I'm sorry. But that bag's too small.
dignan		OK, guys. Just...Sit tight.
dignan		Go. Go. Drive slow.
bob		What happened?
dignan		Shhh. Slow down, Bob. Drive natural.
bob		This is natural.
dignan		 That's good. Keep it at forty.
bob		Did we get it?
dignan		Be cool, Bob. Be cool.  Make that light.
anthony		Holy shit.
dignan		We got it. We got it.
bob		How much is there?
dignan		Don't count it.
bob		Was Dignan screaming like, Get me a bag!
dignan		No. I was calm.
anthony		What about what that guy said?
dignan		Oh, shit. That was scary. In the middle of the robbery. The manager looks at me. Right in the eye. And goes, I'm going to remember you.
bob		Are you serious?
anthony		Yeah. He said that.
dignan		I swear to God. In a very quiet voice.
anthony		Like he meant it.
dignan		Yeah.
anthony		Like he would find Dignan. One day.
dignan		Like I'm going to hunt you down and kill you.
bob		You really think he'll remember you?
dignan		 No. All he'll remember is a guy with a piece of tape on his nose.
bob		See you.
anthony		See you, Bob.
dignan		Hang on, Bob.
dignan		That was really good driving. Seriously. I mean it.
dignan		We'll see you later, Bob. Good driving.
dignan		What's wrong with him?
anthony		What do you think?
dignan		Anthony, he sat in the car and watched a 4-11 in progress. He got what he deserved.
anthony		He was the driver, Dignan. He did what he's supposed to do.
dignan		I didn't realize you were so sensitive to Bob's feelings. Considering I did the plans, you're actually lucky you got --
anthony		Don't even say it, man.
dignan		Bob, will you please listen?
bob		I don't want to talk about it.
dignan		Look, I admit I was wrong for not telling you before the robbery that your share wouldn't be as equal as ours. But the fact remains me and Anthony were much more exposed to danger.
dignan		I mean, Jesus Christ, Bob. You didn't have some vicious lunatic screaming, "I'm going to remember you!"
bob		 That's true. That would give me nightmares.
dignan		Bob, I've got nightmares.
bob		You'll probably have them the rest of your life.
anthony		What was that?
dignan		What?
voice		Motherfucker!
anthony		What's going on?
bob		Phil. What happened?
phil		 Motherfucker. I'll kill him.
bob		 Who?
phil's girlfriend		I've called the police. Oh, my God, Phil.
phil		Don't touch me! I swear to God I'll get that guy.
phil's girlfriend		I know you will, Phil. There was nothing you could do. All you had was a golf club.
anthony		You're bleeding, man. Sit down.
neighbor		What happened?
phil's girlfriend		Some black man beat Phil up.
phil		He didn't beat me up. He attacked me.
phil's girlfriend		He took two hundred dollars.
anthony		 Tilt your head back.
dignan		He was probably on drugs.
officer		They usually are.
phil		As soon as I opened the door I saw him. A black guy. Looking through my dad's tool box. I wanted to trap this guy. So I closed the garage door.
cop		And that's when he hit you?
phil		 He struck me. I fell down. He took my wallet. Then he opened the garage door and ran away.
cop		How'd the window break?
phil		I hit it with the golf club.
dignan		How long do you have to go?
cop		26 weeks.
dignan		And what does that cover?
cop		Social issues. Crime prevention.
dignan		Hand to hand combat?
cop		Ground defense.
dignan		Did you hear that?
officer		What?
dignan		Shhh.
bob		What the fuck is Dignan doing with that cop? He loves them.
anthony		There's a million places to hide around here.
bob		Oh, yeah. They'll never catch the guy.
anthony		I hope not.
bob		Phil probably provoked him.  Where's he going?
dignan		No, it was a rustling sound.
bob's voice		The dog. Look out for the dog.
officer		Is this dog going to bite?
dignan		No. Shit no.
dignan		See? I don't know what he's talking about.
anthony		Where you going?
bob		Move.
anthony		What's wrong?
dignan		He probably went into the next yard. Shine the light over here.
dignan		Those are...
officer		Halt! Sir!
officer		Bill! He's running!
dignan		The prowler! That way!
dignan		Way to go, Bob!
bob		I told you they were there.
dignan		 So it's my fault?
anthony		Be quiet.
dignan		In all probability nothing would of happened. But why take the chance? That's why I ran. I mean how many plants were even back there? Five? Ten?
bob		There were more than that.
anthony		Why don't you just tell them the truth. Those belong to my neighbor Phil.
bob		I don't know. I personally don't need that shit in my life right now.
anthony		Nobody does.
dignan		Obviously. That's why we go on the road. The thing about cops is they have short attention spans.
dignan		Can I get that credit card from you?
anthony		 I don't like to use that credit card, Dignan.
dignan		Why not?
anthony		Because my mom gets the bill.
dignan		She's not going to notice, Anthony.
anthony		I don't want to use it.
dignan		 Well, then cut it in half.
anthony		I keep it for emergencies.
dignan		Anthony, we're on the run. This is an emergency. It's only fair that...
anthony		Here's mine right here. See?
dignan		See if mine are in there.
anthony		 Dignan, those aren't running shoes.
dignan		Yes, they are.
anthony		Look at the treads on those.
dignan		What about them?
anthony		They obviously weren't designed for racing.
dignan		Well, those treads stink. You'd blow a knee out racing on those.
bob		Will you guys shut up? God. It's like having two little kids in the car.
anthony		OK, Dad.
dignan		Really. OK, Dad. But seriously, Anthony. These are fast shoes.
anthony		You've never had a pair of fast shoes in your life, Dignan.  In fifth grade Dignan used to wear cowboy boots for P.E.
dignan		That's real cool, Anthony. Yeah, I wore boots. My parents wouldn't buy me any $200 running shoes like yours. I wasn't spoiled.
anthony		Don't call me spoiled, Dignan.
dignan		You were spoiled rotten.
bob		Enough. Jesus Christ.
anthony		 You want to say it, Bob?
anthony		I'll just say it.
dignan		I'll say it.
anthony		OK. Go ahead.
dignan		On your marks...  Get set go.
dignan		 You owe me fifty bucks.
anthony		Bob?
bob		Anthony won.
dignan		Bob wasn't even looking.
girl		Was that shirt made from a towel?
dignan		What?
girl		 It's just terrycloth, isn't it?
dignan		Yeah. I think so.
anthony		Look, man. She didn't know anything about shirts.
dignan		No, I'm not saying her. I'm just saying, I don't know.
anthony		It's a great shirt. Don't worry about it.
dignan		Armored trucks are very difficult to steal, Anthony.
anthony		I know. But once you get inside you're home free.
dignan		Right.. Get back to me on that one. Once your plan is worth a shit.
anthony		It's not a plan. It's just --
dignan		Actually. If you knew the exact route, you could plant explosives under a manhole cover and blow it up as it went over.
anthony		Yeah, but you wouldn't have the truck if you blew it up.
dignan		True.
dignan		What the fuck is this?
dignan		Ram him, Bob.
dignan		Hit him!
dignan		Shit, Bob. What the fuck did you do that for?
bob		He wouldn't move.
bob		Is he chasing us?
dignan		I don't know.
anthony		Speed up, Bob.
bob		You think he got my license plates?
anthony		He looked too shaken-up.
dignan		I'm sure he did. We'll have to get new plates.
bob		It's registered in my mother's name.
dignan		 What the fuck possessed you?
bob		You're the one who kept saying ram him.
dignan		I meant tap him. As a warning.
anthony		Dignan, I can't get my hair cut. That's just not possible, all right?
dignan		Then you're going to have to dye it, Anthony. We've got to hide our identities. Especially after Bob crashed the car.
anthony		No, Dignan. I'm sorry. I can't do that.
dignan		Even if it's the difference between some trooper recognizing us and throwing us in prison or not?
dignan		Well, Bob, Samson has decided that his hair is more important than our safety.  My friend, that is a reckless decision! Let's go, Bob.
dignan		Bob. Are you coming?
bob		See you in a little while.
anthony		See you, Bob.
anthony		No, it's OK. Come on in.
anthony		It's hot out, isn't it? Yeah. This is a nice little town. So, what, do you do all these rooms yourself? Or what? I'm Anthony.
anthony		What's your name?
maid		Inez.
anthony		Inez?
anthony		Let me give you a hand with that.
anthony		How do you say nineteen?
inez		Dies y nueve.
anthony		Right. Yeah. Yo soy dies y nueve. How old are you?
anthony		Are you ever scared of finding a dead body in one of these rooms?
inez		 No.
anthony		It could happen. This is the exact kind of place where it happens. But I don't want to scare you.
anthony		People think because they're in a hotel they can act like a slob. It's bad manners.
anthony		Were you born in Mexico?
inez		Cuba.
anthony		Oh, really? That's interesting. Do you prefer Cuba or the United States?
inez		Scuse me.
anthony		These towels are still warm.
anthony		I guess from the dryer.
anthony		I've never met anybody from Cuba before.
inez		Housekeeping.
woman		We're just checking out.
husband		Hi.
anthony		Hi.
dignan		You can go first, Bob.
bob		My brother's in jail.
dignan		What are you talking about?
bob		The weed.
dignan		But it's not his. How can they arrest Future Man?
bob		They said he's a drug dealer.
dignan		Those assholes. We got rapes. Murders. Violent crimes every second. And this is what they come up with.  They're just fucking him because he's from a prominent family.
dignan		I don't think they can make it stick, Bob. I mean, what do they actually have on Future Man?
bob		Well, the marijuana crop is a good start.
dignan		That could be anybody's.
bob		They also found my two beam scale in the garage. DIGNAN Since when is it a crime to have a scale in your house? Everybody has a scale.
bob		The cops say it's a special kind of scale drug dealers use in selling marijuana.
dignan		So tell them the truth. What do you use it for?
bob		 I was just going to use it to see how much I had.
dignan		How long has he been in there?
bob		I don't know.
dignan		Then how come they haven't set the bail yet? That's unconstitutional.
bob		We'll have to see when we get back.
dignan		What do you mean get back?
bob		 Well, obviously, we got to go back.
dignan		Bob, that makes no sense.
bob		Dignan, he's my brother. I can't just leave him there.
dignan		This could be a trap. BOB Come on, Dignan.
dignan		Don't "Come on, Dignan" me.
bob		I'm going back.
dignan		 Not in that car you're not.
bob		Watch me.
dignan		Good luck, since I got the keys.
bob		Give me the keys, Dignan.
dignan		I can't do that, Bob.
bob		Dignan. You're going to give me those keys or you're going to get hurt.
dignan		Don't threaten me, Bob.
bob		Goddammit, Dignan! It's my car! If you don't give me my keys, I swear to God --
dignan		Look, Bob. I understand your loyalty. You're a good person. But right now you're not using your best judgement.
dignan		Future Man would not want you to go to jail I promise you. Just get in the car and we'll talk about it.
dignan		Future Man would never go to jail for you, I'll tell you that.
bob		His name's not Future Man, Dignan.
dignan		I know it's not.
bob		You don't even know his name.
dignan		Yes, I do.
bob		What is it?
dignan		Just get in the car, Bob.
bob		What's his name?
dignan		OK, Bob. I don't know his name. You know why? Because I don't care. He's Future Man. But I care about you. And to me it doesn't make sense to go back to the scene of a crime. Will you get in the car, Bob? This is stupid.
bob		It's not your decision and he's not your brother, Dignan.
dignan		That's right. I only have one vote. We'll go talk with Anthony and figure it out.
dignan		You're going to ride in the back?
dignan		Come on, Bob. Get in front.
dignan		You've got a beautiful walk, Bob.
bob		Let's go.
dignan		Hi. How's it going.
anthony		I thought you guys went to get your hair cut.
dignan		No. We didn't.
anthony		We're making banana daqueris.
anthony		This is Inez. Carmen. Anita.
dignan		Hi.
anthony		Inez, this is --
dignan		Jerry.  And this is my associate Cornelius.
dignan		May I have a word with you, please?
anthony		Sure.
dignan		What the fuck is going on here?
anthony		What. What's the matter?
dignan		Anthony, we're on the run from the law here. Did you tell these people your real name?
anthony		No. I didn't. Dignan, they don't speak English.
dignan		They don't?
anthony		No. Not really. Inez speaks a little.
dignan		Which one was that?
anthony		On the left.
anthony		She's from Cuba.
dignan		No kidding.
bob		Dignan.
dignan		 Anthony. Bad news.
anthony		How long are they going to hold him?
bob		I don't know. I don't know anything. Except Phil says they got him. And he's in jail.
dignan		He needs to hire an attorney.
anthony		No, no. Look. OK. Let's stay here until we find out what's going on.
bob		Anthony, I --
anthony		And if Future Man doesn't get let out of jail in 48 hours, then we go back. All right?
dignan		Now that makes sense. We'll hang out for a couple of days. Get a little R&R. Make sure Future Man's OK and then get back on the road.
anthony		As long as he gets out OK.
dignan		Obviously. That's a given.
anthony		Bob?
bob		What?
anthony		Is that OK?
bob		 Yeah. I guess so.
dignan		See, now we've got a plan.
anthony		Don't worry about it, Bob.
inez		Does my skin feel soft, Anthony?
anthony		 God, yes. Like silk. Inez starts to giggle.
anthony		What?  What?
inez		Like silk?
anthony		God. That does sound corny.  Oh, your skin feels so soft and silky. But it really kind of does.
dignan		No lifeguard on duty. Swim at your own risk.
dignan		You know, I did save Anthony from drowning once, Inez. Tell her, Anthony.
dignan		See, one day we were playing hot box over at my next door neighbor Mr. Langston's house and Anthony fell in the pool and got knocked unconscious. I had to dive in and save him.
anthony		This was in fourth grade.
dignan		Mr. Langston performed cardiopulmonary recitation. CPR. I've never said this before, but frankly I thought Anthony was dead. The veins in his face were all sticking out. His skin was blue. He truly did look dead.
anthony		After that my parents never let me go to Dignan's again.
dignan		They blamed my family for everything. They always said Mr. Langston saved Anthony's life.
anthony		But if it wasn't for Dignan I probably would of died.
dignan		 Yes...It's true.
dignan		Son of a bitch.
dignan		He's gone. He stole the car.
anthony		Where was it parked?
dignan		Right here.
dignan		That coward. Son of a bitch.
anthony		Maybe he just went to the store.
dignan		He took his stuff. He's gone.  I should of seen this. I should of expected it. Bob doesn't have any character.
anthony		He went back for his brother.
dignan		We said 48 hours.
anthony		That's a long time to be in jail.
dignan		We'll get him. Don't worry about that. We'll go back. We'll find him. And we'll blow up his car. Or do something. I promise you.
dignan		I mean, let's face it. Bob was dead weight. We're a lot better off without him.  But who could expect it? Just like that. Steals the fucking car. What kind of person pulls that --
anthony		Bob didn't steal the car. He told me he was going. He had to go help his brother.
dignan		When'd he tell you?
anthony		This morning.
dignan		Where was I?
anthony		You were asleep.
dignan		He told you and you let him do it.
anthony		He told me because he wanted to know if I wanted to go.
dignan		 If you wanted to go? What were you going to do? Just leave me here by myself?
anthony		Well, I didn't do it, did I?
dignan		So when you were saying Bob's at the store and acting real suprised, that was just an act. You were just --
anthony		Bob went to help his brother. I understand that and I can't help it if you don't.
dignan		I understand that if I had a few more friends like you and Bob I'd be dead.
anthony		If you say so.
dignan		If you'd gone with Bob you'd probably be in Weatherford by now. Of course I'd be here frantically worrying thinking you must of got kidnapped.
anthony		I didn't realize you had such an incredible ability to feel sorry for yourself, Dignan.
dignan		Well, the world is a little bit colder today.
anthony		You want to look at the map?
anthony		See. Here's where we are.
dignan		I didn't know he had it in him.  I guess you could say the child has become the father of the man.
anthony		We're going over to this bar if you feel like going.
dignan		No. I'm going to swim. I'll see you later.
anthony		Why don't you come with us.
dignan		OK.
man		Hello, my friend. You in the Army, yes?
dignan		No. I just have short hair.
man		Is that your chiquita?
dignan		No, my friend knows her.
man		She Chicano, yes?
man		You like Chicanos?
dignan		Sure.
man		Play pool? For one cerveza.
man		 You a good pool player.
dignan		Got a little lucky.
man		Where's your friend? He go with the chiquita?
dignan		I don't know.
man		She is a good looking woman.
dignan		Guess I'll get another Tecate.
man		Si. Tecate. You like to fight?
dignan		What?
man		Fight. You know.
dignan		No. Just pool.
man		You Hoto?
dignan		 Fuck you. You a Hoto.
man		 No. Me no Hoto. Tecate?
dignan		Right.
man		Pinche cabrone. Puta madre.
anthony		I can't believe he just jumped you.
dignan		Can you hand me those french fries.
anthony		I wish I'd been there.
dignan		Would of been nice.
anthony		Man. I'm sorry. We just went for a walk --
dignan		I don't really feel like talking about it. The only thing I feel like is getting the fuck out of this place.
anthony		 We need a car.
dignan		I have an idea for that.
anthony		What?
dignan		Inez has a master key to all these rooms, doesn't she?  Doesn't she?
anthony		I don't think we can do that.
dignan		I know we can. It's real simple. We go into a room, grab some car keys and --
anthony		What I'm saying is she wouldn't go for that.
dignan		She doesn't need to know.
anthony		 I don't know, Dignan. I just -- DIGNAN Look. I'm ready to get the fuck out of here. It's real torture for me to be here. Getting the shit kicked out of me by Mexicans.
anthony		Shh.
dignan		No one to back me up. Now I have a good idea. So unless you come up with something better --
anthony		Dignan. I can't do that. All right? I just can't.
dignan		Then you better think of something.
inez		How are you, Jerry?
dignan		 I feel great, Inez.
anthony		 I'll see you later.
anthony		I don't think we need any keys, Dignan. I think I can hotwire a car for us.
dignan		You don't know how to hotwire.
anthony		Yes, I do. Bob taught me.
dignan		Bob taught you how to get electrocuted.
anthony		No, I'm serious. He made me a diagram.
dignan		What'd you say to Inez?
dignan		"I'll come back for you. I love you, Inez."
dignan		"I'm going to take you away from all this windexing and making beds."
anthony		Man, I don't know anything about cars.
dignan		You really know how to pick them.
anthony		I think we better go home.
dignan		Don't panic, Anthony.
anthony		I'm not. But there's --
dignan		You can't just run home every time things get tough. First of all, we've got enough dough to --
anthony		Our money situation is not good.
dignan		 You're so spoiled. What is "not good" to you? Only a few hundred --
anthony		We've got sixteen dollars.
dignan		That's not correct.
dignan		Give it to me.
dignan		Sixteen dollars.
anthony		I know.
dignan		Where's the rest?
anthony		I had to give some to Inez.
dignan		How much?
dignan		What!
dignan		You gave $383 to the goddamn housekeeper! What the fuck is your problem?
anthony		She needed it.
dignan		A $500 tip! For the housekeeper!
anthony		Her name's Inez. Stop calling her the housekeeper.
dignan		That's what she is!
anthony		I know that. But --
dignan		You're in love with the fucking housekeeper!
anthony		Shut up!
dignan		What are you going to do, get married? Have a bunch of little idiot janitor brats! And go around scrubbing the --
anthony		Stop!  Now listen to me.
anthony		Bob, where you going?
bob		I'm not playing any more golf.
anthony		Why not?
bob		Cause I'm not getting any better. It's a waste of time.
anthony		You've only been playing for two weeks, Bob. It takes a long time to learn this game.
bob		You think I'm improving?
anthony		 Yes. You just got to stick with it.
bob		You don't have to talk about it if you don't want to.
anthony		No, I don't mind.
bob		I know it must of been a bad experience. But it doesn't sound like it was your fault.
anthony		Well, I didn't mean to electrocute him. But the whole operation was my idea.
anthony		Even the school custodian Swifty thought it was great. He kept laughing and shaking his head the whole time he tried to disconnect the generator. And then suddenly  total silence except for Swifty hanging off the generator with his leg stuck to it being electrocuted.
anthony		Actually he died of a heart attack brought on by the shock. He was an older guy.
anthony		I felt terrible. I'd known Swifty since first grade. He was Dignan's medicine man for Indian Guides. They called each other Rattlesnake and Killer Whale. Whenever Dignan came to visit me he would act like he and Swifty weren't that good of friends, but that was just to make me feel better. The whole rest of the school had turned against me.
anthony		At first they were going to charge me with manslaughter. That's partly why I was in custody so long. Sixty days.
bob		Sixty days?
anthony		Yeah. One minute you're studying Great Expectations and the next minute you're drawing the Holy Mary for some kid who tried to stab his girlfriend.
bob		Why were you drawing the Holy Mary?
anthony		Prison tatoos. I got to be pretty good. It's not like drawing on paper.
anthony		 It's a panther.
future man		How's that 700 bucks coming?
bob		I'm working on it.
future man		Hard to find it sitting by the pool drinking beer and bullshitting.
anthony		I thought he didn't have to pay anything because of the technicality.
bob		Yeah, but he still has the aggravation. Three days sitting in a cell.
anthony		 Were you adopted, Bob?
bob		Why do you say that?
anthony		Well, because you guys don't look alike.
bob		No. I wasn't adopted.
anthony		Was Future Man adopted?
bob		Jesus Christ! No.
dignan		There's a lot of valuable shit in there, Applejack. The silver and the china. The crystal. And the grandfather clock. Goddammit, I bet that clock's worth ten grand.
applejack		Why the fuck do we need to blow up the car? It doesn't make any goddamn sense.
dignan		Just settling an old score. You might say revenge.
applejack		That sounds like a lot of bullshit that'll land us in jail.
dignan		We might have to take that chance. Cause I feel pretty strongly about this.
applejack		Is that Buckethead?
dignan		Get down.
applejack		Is that him?
dignan		Wait a second.
dignan		That's Anthony.
applejack		That's your friend Anthony?
dignan		Yeah.
applejack		What's he doing here?
dignan		Looks like he's staying with Buckethead. That's what I figured. He's probably got his own room. Let's see where he's going.
dignan		Don't get too close.
dignan		Stop. He saw us.
dignan		Wait. Did he see us?
applejack		We're going too slow. It looks like we're following him.
dignan		Speed up.
dignan		Anthony!
dignan		Wait up.
dignan		Where you going?
anthony		Just walking Hector.
anthony		When'd you get back?
dignan		Ah. Couple days ago.
dignan		 You want to shake hands.
anthony		Who's in the car?
dignan		That's Applejack. You want to meet him?
anthony		Sure.
dignan		This is Applejack.
anthony		Nice to meet you, Applejack.
applejack		You're Anthony?
anthony		Yeah.
applejack		I hear you're a good thief.
applejack		I'm just sitting at this bar drinking my drink when this fine chick walks by. She was a living doll. And the big motherfucker who came in with her sees me looking, when he walks by he steps on my foot. Doesn't say shit. Just takes a seat with his lady. Well, I holler out to him, If I was as big as you, ain't no way in the hell you'd of stepped on my foot like that. He just laughed. He says, Little man, take your foot and put it in your pocket. I said, No, how about I take my foot and I stick it up your ass? Man, we went to war right there. I hit him so hard I knocked his nuts in his watchpocket. But this motherfucker wouldn't go down. Then all the sudden, out of nowhere, Dignan came up behind him and smashed a bottle on his head. And that big old boy went down. That's how I met Dignan. Good cat to have on your side. He'll go to war with you. He don't give a fuck.
dignan		Applejack would of got him anyway. This was just the quicker war.
anthony		You really hit a guy with a bottle?
dignan		Pretty much. He kind of fell into me. But wait a second.
dignan		I want you to look at this.
anthony		What is it?
dignan		It's big, Anthony. Real big. It's called Hinckley Cold Storage.
anthony		What's Hinckley Cold Storage?
dignan		Mr. Henry has an inside source. We call him Steve. That's where we get our information.
anthony		Who's Mr. Henry?
dignan		You'll meet him this afternoon. He's helping us set it up.
applejack		Did you ever hear of the S. Cooper Trust robbery?
anthony		 Uh-uh.
applejack		S. Cooper Trust,in San Francisco?
anthony		Uh-uh.
dignan		Mr. Henry pulled that job in 1965. It's famous. Applejack was the wheel man. Did you use this same car, Applejack?
applejack		Hell, no. This is a '72. I was driving a '63 Pontiac. ANTHONY What exactly is this place? Freezers?
dignan		Right. Freezers. Imported foods.
applejack		Let's go, Abdul-Shabazz.
anthony		Abdul-Shabazz?
dignan		Just a nickname.
anthony		What time did he say to be here?
dignan		Right now.
applejack		I can knock a man out with a six inch punch.
anthony		What do you mean?
applejack		Feel this.
anthony		 You could give somebody a concussion.
dignan		Let me feel that.
dignan		 Ow. Shit.
man		How's the weather down there?
dignan		 Mr. Henry?
man		Come on in!
dignan		It's locked.
man		No, it's not.
dignan		This is Anthony Adams, Mr. Henry.
anthony		Nice to meet you.
anthony		Thanks.
anthony		It's hard to get much spin with this kind of paddle.
anthony		Thanks.
anthony		Nice shot.
dignan		I don't know. Are you in, Anthony?
anthony		Yeah, I'm in.
anthony		Grammar.
dignan		What do you mean grammar?
anthony		You mean like techniques?
dignan		 Yes, I do.
anthony		I'd like to live in that place. Hinckley Cold Storage.
dignan		The grammar?
dignan		Oh, yeah.
anthony		You mean a safecracker?
dignan		Is he good?
dignan		So what do you think of the plan, Mr. Kumar?
dignan		We'd love to have you on the team.
anthony		What is that? An orchid?
kumar		Good plan.
dignan		What do you think?
anthony		 He seems pretty good.
bob		Hey, Dignan. How's it going?
dignan		Not bad.
bob		Come on in. What you been up to?
dignan		Not a whole lot, Bob.
bob		It's too bad about what happened on the road.
dignan		Yeah. It is.
anthony		Let's not even talk about it.
bob		It was stupid.
dignan		Right. It was extremely stupid.
bob		I don't expect an apology and I don't even want one. I just want us to --
dignan		I can't fucking believe this guy. An apology, Bob?
bob		Man, I don't want to go into this.
anthony		Yeah. Let's keep it --
bob		Cause you would of let my brother rot in jail.
dignan		You said 48 hours!
bob		I never agreed to that.
dignan		Bob, you're lying!
bob		Bullshit.
dignan		All right! Backyard! Right now!
dignan		Let's go, Bob!
anthony		Dignan. Take it easy.
dignan		Bob!
bob		No, Dignan. This is stupid.
anthony		Yeah. Dignan. Look. Let's just --
anthony		Stop, Dignan!
anthony		He doesn't want to fight.
dignan		Get out of the way.
anthony		No, Diqnan. This isn't --
dignan		Come on!
bob		I don't want to fight you, Dignan.
anthony		Dignan, we're friends. Take it easy.
anthony		Dignan. Dignan.
dignan		All right. Stop.
dignan		No fighting.
dignan		No fighting. It wasn't Bob's fault.
anthony		Easy, Dignan. It's OK.
dignan		It wasn't your fault, Bob. You had your brother. BOB I didn't have any choice.
dignan		I'm sorry, Bob.
bob		That's OK.
anthony		 Shit, Dignan.
dignan		 What the fuck are we doing out here?
anthony		I don't know, Dignan. You went crazy.
dignan		I'm sorry, Bob.
bob		That's OK.
dignan		Look. We want you on the job.
bob		You got me.
jackson		How you doing, Bob?
bob		Hey, Jackson. How's it going?
jackson		You keeping out of trouble?
bob		I'm trying.
jackson		 This boy's a troublemaker. He used to tear this place apart.
jackson		Your brother was up here the other day. He said you ran away from home.
bob		He said what?
jackson		He said you ran away from home.
bob		No. I didn't run away. I went out of town.
dignan		Bob.
future man		Fancy seeing you here, Bob.
bob		Yeah. Hey, Clay.
clay		Hi, Bob.
future man		 So what's shaking?
bob		Nothing much.
future man		How's it going.
anthony		Fine, thanks.
future man		John Mapplethorpe.  How are you. Hi.
bob		Jackson says you told him I ran away from home.
future man		I might have mentioned it.
bob		John, I'm twenty-six years old I didn't run away from home.
future man		I know, Bob. You were on a secret mission.
bob		I'd appreciate it if you didn't go around telling people lies about me.
future man		Right. I'm sorry.  You've got a reputation to think about.
future man		What?
future man		Well, we'll see you later, Bob.
future man		 Nice to meet you.
bob		No. That doesn't offend me.
dignan		OK. Man in blue jeans just left by southwest door. He is entering a white van. What time is it?
anthony		Eleven fifteen.
dignan		OK. Mark that down.
anthony		I did.
dignan		God. Isn't this great? Working on the job. Got a wheel man. Got a safecracker. Good friends with Mr. Henry.
anthony		Yeah. It's pretty good.
dignan		It's like we've finally arrived.
dignan		What are you writing?
anthony		So do I.
anthony		I'm not really sure. I think it's Irish. Or maybe --
anthony		What do you mean what kind of person? He's a good person.
anthony		You're wrong about Dignan.
anthony		And you're wrong if you think, I'd turn my back on a friend.
anthony		What do you mean?
anthony		That was a test?
anthony		It feels good.
anthony		Did Dignan take the test?
anthony		How'd he do?
anthony		That sounds like Dignan.
applejack		Is my car OK out there?
applejack		I don't eat pork.
applejack		I don't know why the fuck we're having a party. The damn job's not over yet.
dignan		Well, this isn't really a party per se.
applejack		You don't celebrate til it's over.
dignan		True.
applejack		What the fuck are you doing?
rowboat		What was that all about?
dignan		Ramedan.
anthony		Me?
anthony		I don't want to die.
anthony		Yeah. I mean, I don't think about it all the time. But once in awhile I kind of go, Woah. Man.
anthony		Death.
anthony		No. Bob did.
anthony		Are you afraid to die, Mr. Henry?
bob		Is that sugarless gum you're chewing?
girl 2		I'm not chewing gum.
bob		Would you like a piece?
girl 2		 Sure. Thanks.
kumar		If someone could copy my life story. If I had someone, man, to just write what I talk. I have so many stories. Bestseller, man.
applejack		I've been all over the Goddamn country. I've seen things.
kumar		I used to go to Vegas and do headstands.
applejack		No kidding.
kumar		Easy.
dignan		Come on, Bob.
bob		I know it, man. Hang on.
dignan		Jesus Christ.
anthony		Give him a second. BOB Hopscotch. The code name is hopscotch.
dignan		Good.
dignan		We're just going over a few things.
dignan		Yes.
dignan		Well, I think --
anthony		This is good.
anthony		Yeah.
anthony		 Can I ask you something, Mr. Henry?
anthony		Why'd you want to help us?
dignan		Next week we'll be drinking pia coladas.
anthony		 Hopefully this trip'll go a little smoother than the last one.
anthony		Or I might end up with a broken nose.
dignan		Did that hurt?
dignan		This'll be a good trip.
anthony		I'll try not to hold you back tomorrow.
dignan		I don't think you will.
anthony		I don't want to be too much of a liability.
dignan		Look, you're going to do fine. It's OK to be scared.
anthony		 I don't think I ever said this to you. But it meant a lot to me the way you were after that Swifty stuff happened.
anthony		He was a nice guy.
dignan		 He was all right.
anthony		Do you like Inez?
dignan		As a person?
anthony		Yeah. As a girl.
dignan		Yes. I do.
anthony		So do I.
anthony		You OK, Bob?
bob		 No, I'm having a heart attack. Of course, I'm OK. What's that supposed to mean?
anthony		 Nothing. I was just asking.
dignan		Jesus, Bob.
bob		No, I know. I'm just saying. I feel fine. You want a piece of cake?
anthony		 Sure.
dignan		I'll take one of those, too, please.
anthony		Bird Dog to Scarecrow. Bird Dog to Scarecrow.
anthony		You're all clear.
anthony		 We all set?
dignan		 OK. Let's do it.
dignan		Let's get lucky, Bird Dog.
dignan		Yeah?
bob		Everything OK?
bob		It looks pretty good. There's nobody back here.
dignan		Stand by. Bird Dog?
anthony		Uh-huh?
anthony		OK. Roger.
dignan		OK. Six minutes.
kumar		Where did he go?
dignan		Who? Applejack?
kumar		Why did he go that way? 
dignan		He's going to watch the back stairwell, remember?  Don't worry about it.
dignan		 Bird dog? You in position?
anthony		I'm in position, Scarecrow.
anthony		Not at all. The place is totally deserted.
anthony		I've got a great view up here. I can see all the --
dignan		Jacknife. Come in, Jacknife.  Hello? Bob? Are you there?
dignan		 Bob? What the fuck is going on? Anthony? Who's in the elevator?
anthony		I don't know.
anthony		What are you doing?
bob		My walkie talkie's busted. 1 can't tell what's going on.
anthony		Let me see it.  Did you drop it?
bob		No.
dignan		What's happening? What's going on?
anthony		It was Bob. His walkie talkie's busted.
bob		I couldn't hear anything.
dignan		Who's watching the door? What the fuck are you doing? Get back in position.
dignan		Who did that? What the fuck is that?
anthony		It's going back down.
dignan		 Applejack! What's happening?
dignan		Bob! Get back in position!
dignan		Don't move! Get up against the wall!
dignan		 What are you doing here?
dignan		Time!
anthony		 Two minutes.
applejack		Where'd they come from?
anthony		The front stairs.
applejack		 Where were you?
bob		My walkie talkie broke.
dignan		What's the story?
kumar		Can't get it. It won't... 
dignan		What can we do?
dignan		OK. Fuck it.
dignan		Let's go. Fuck it.
anthony		Freeze!
dignan		Nobody move!
anthony		Get against the wall!
anthony		Jesus, Bob.
bob		I didn't do anything.
anthony		Applejack? Are you OK?
dignan		 What's wrong with Applejack?
bob		He's having a heart attack or something.
dignan		 Let's go!
dignan		Help me move him.
anthony		Careful. Check his pulse.
bob		I think so.
dignan		Jesus Christ.  What the fuck is that?
bob		I didn't think there was an alarm.
dignan		Take him to the car, Bob.
dignan		Who tripped the alarm?
anthony		It's the fire alarm.  Somebody pulled the fire alarm.
dignan		Where's Kumar?
anthony		 I don't know.
dignan		Jesus Christ, Anthony.  Did you lose him?
dignan		What?
anthony		What for?
anthony		What are you doing?
dignan		Let's go. Come on.
anthony		What were you doing in there?
anthony		Wait for Kumar.
dignan		Come on, Kumar.
bob		The elevator broke.
dignan		Where's Applejack?
bob		He's stuck between two floors.
anthony		You're kidding.
dignan		Applejack's stuck in the elevator?
bob		Yeah.
anthony		Who's got the car keys?
bob		Applejack drove.
dignan		 Run. Run. Let's go.
anthony		Jesus, Dignan.
anthony		What the fuck happened to the the plan?
anthony		Come on.
dignan		I'll see you there.
anthony		What?
dignan		I'll see you there.
anthony		What are you talking about?
dignan		I'll get him.
anthony		There's not enough time.
dignan		Yes, there is. Let's get organized.
anthony		Dignan, it's too late.
dignan		I don't think so.
cop		Freeze!
dignan		I'm not going to do anything.
dignan		I said to the DA, That cop who hit me must of given me CRS disease.
bob		What's that?
dignan		That's just what the DA asked. CRS is a disease where you can't remember shit.
anthony		Like amnesia.
dignan		Can't remember shit. CRS.
bob		Oh.
dignan		Tell Mr. Henry I said that.
dignan		So is Mr. Henry going to come by and see me or anything?
anthony		 I don't think so. I mean. Actually, he robbed Bob's house.
dignan		He did?
anthony		Yeah.
dignan		You got to be kidding me.
anthony		I'm not kidding.
dignan		 What'd he get?
anthony		Pretty much everything.
dignan		The grandfather clock?
bob		He got everything.
dignan		Wow.  Sorry, Bob.
dignan		You think Applejack knew?
anthony		 We haven't heard from Applejack since he got out of the hospital. His case got dismissed.
dignan		Why?
anthony		We're not sure.
bob		We think Mr. Henry maybe --
anthony		His health isn't very good, you know. They take that into account.
dignan		No. That's true.
anthony		Mr. Henry never gave you a test, did he?
dignan		What do you mean?
anthony		Nothing.
dignan		You're living on a sailboat?
anthony		 It belongs to Bob's uncle.
dignan		How big is it? ANTHONY Oh, I'd say about --
bob		It's in the driveway.
anthony		 Temporarily.
dignan		Where?
anthony		Behind Bob's house.
dignan		Does it float?
anthony		We're not sure yet. It's going to need some repairs.
anthony		So how is it in there? 
dignan		 What can I say? It's jail. You don't sleep when you want to. You don't eat when you want to.
bob		Do you have your own room?
dignan		We don't have rooms, Bob. We have cells.
bob		Do you have your own cell?
dignan		No. I have a cellmate. His name's Carl.
anthony		What's he in for?
dignan		He stole a tractor.
bob		Do they let you --
dignan		I don't really want to talk about it, Bob.
dignan		 This sure beats the shit out of the shit they crap out in this joint.
dignan		 I might have to have another one of these.
dignan		Thanks for coming.
dignan		Hey.
dignan		I think I may have found a way out of here.
anthony		 You're kidding.
dignan		No. I'm not.
anthony		How?
dignan		Shhh. Wait for my instructions.
anthony		Dignan, I --
dignan		When we go through the next gate you'll have 30 seconds to take out the tower guard.
anthony		What?
dignan		Have the car running at the north- west checkpoint. Bob and I'll --
anthony		Dignan, I --
dignan		Scale the barricade and tunnel through no man's land. And Bob. Remember:
anthony		Scale the --
dignan		Shield me from the bullets. They won't shoot civilians. Ready?
bob		Hold on --
dignan		Here we go.
bob		Wait a second --
dignan		Now!
dignan		So long.
****Dialogues from script :Bound.txt****

written by		 Larry & Andy Wachowski
woman		Wait!  Hold the elevator.
corky		Thanks again for this opportunity, Mr. Bianchinni.  Goodbye.
violet		Hi.  My name is Violet.  We sort of met in the elevator --
corky		Yeah, sure.  I'm Corky.
violet		I heard you working in here and I just wondered if you'd like a cup of coffee?
corky		Sure.  Come on in.  Give me a minute.
violet		What happened to Rajeev?
corky		Who?
violet		Rajeev, the man who usually works on the building.
corky		Oh, he went home to India, but as far as I know he'll be back.
violet		So this is temporary for you?
corky		Pretty much.  One day at a time.
violet		I guessed you were straight black.
corky		Good guess.
corky		Mmmm ...  thanks, I needed this.
violet		My pleasure ...  but to be honest, I did have a slightly ulterior motive here.  I was wondering if I could ask a small favor?
corky		A favor?
violet		Yeah, see, I'm kind of a night person, so I was wondering if it wasn't a terrible inconvenience if you could wait a bit before using power tools.
corky		Oh, I'm sorry --
violet		No, it isn't your fault.  The walls here are just so thin.
corky		Are they really?
violet		Yes, it really causes problems. Sometimes it's like you're in the same room.  But if it's too much trouble, I understand ...
corky		No, no trouble.  There's other work to do.
violet		You're doing everything yourself?
corky		Yeah.
violet		That is so amazing.  I'm in awe of people who can fix things.  My dad was like that.  We never had anything new.  Whenever something broke he would open it up, tinker with it and it would work.  His hands were magic.
violet		Yeah ...  I bet your car is twenty years old.
corky		Truck.
violet		Truck.  Of course.
corky		'63 Chevy.
violet		I knew it.
violet		So, how do you know the owner, Mr. Bianchinni?
corky		I don't, really.  I was referred to him.
violet		Oh, really.
corky		Do you know him?
violet		No, but Caesar does.  He likes him. Says he's a good Italian.
corky		Caesar is your husband?
violet		Oh no, no.  I'm not the marrying kind.
violet		I should be going.  You can drop the cup off anytime.
corky		Thanks.
violet		My pleasure.
bartender		Well, well ...
bartender		Been awhile, Cork.
corky		Five years, two months, sixteen days. How you doing, Sue?
sue		Like shit.  Now that we're all caught up, how about a drink?
corky		Thanks.
sue		You got a job yet?
corky		Yeah.  Some plumbing, painting and shit.
sue		I mean a J-O-B.  A real job.
corky		Not for me, Sue.  I'm straight and narrow.  I'm just here to get laid or drunk and hopefully both.
corky		Thanks for the beer.
corky		Hi.
woman		Hello.
corky		You know ...  that outfit would look great on my bedroom floor.
woman cop		Hey, Jesse.  What's happening here?
corky		Nothing ...  yet.
woman cop		Who's this?
woman cop		Wait, I know you.
corky		I don't think so.
woman cop		I didn't know you were out.
corky		When you get tired of Cagney and Lacey, come find me.
corky		Hello?  Oh, hi, Mr. Bianchinni ... yes, everything is going fine.  I got the tub drain all cleaned out.
corky		What apartment?
corky		All right, all right, I guess I could take a look.  Yeah, you're welcome, goodbye.
violet		Oh no.  Shit.  I didn't know he would call you.  God, you must think |I'm a total nuisance.
corky		Not exactly.
violet		I'm sorry, I usually would call Rajeev, but I didn't know what to do so I called Mr. Bianchinni.
corky		He said you lost something.
violet		Yeah, come on in.
violet		I was doing some dishes and just as I pulled the stopper my earring fell in.
violet		It's one of my favorites.  That's why I got upset.  I know it probably seems ridiculous to you.
violet		I'm sorry, look, forget it.  I shouldn't have called...
corky		I told Bianchinni I would take a look.  Is it that sink?
corky		Do you have a pot or a bucket?
violet		Sure.
violet		Did you find it?
violet		I can't believe it!  You did it!
violet		Thank you so much.  You have to let me pay you something --
corky		No.  Mr. Bianchinni asked me to do it.  I did it.
violet		If you won't take money, how about a drink?  It's getting late.  You can't work all night.
corky		Okay, one drink.
violet		What do you want?
corky		A beer?
violet		A beer.  Of course.
violet		Sit down.
violet		Thanks again.
violet		You seem uncomfortable.  Do I make you nervous, Corky?
corky		No.
violet		Thirsty, maybe.
corky		Curious, maybe.
violet		Curious?  That's funny, I'm feeling a bit curious myself right now.
violet		That's a great tattoo.
violet		Beautiful labrys.
violet		Are you surprised that I know what it is?
corky		Maybe.
violet		I have a tattoo, would you like to see it?
violet		A woman in upstate New York did it for me.
violet		Here.  Do you like it?
violet		It took her all day to do it.  She promised me it wouldn't hurt, but it was sore for a long time after.  I couldn't even touch it.
violet		But now I love the way it feels.
violet		Here, touch it.
corky		What are you doing?
violet		Isn't it obvious?  I'm trying to seduce you.
corky		Why?
violet		Because I want to.  I've wanted to since I first saw you in the elevator.
violet		You don't believe me.  But I can prove it to you.
violet		You can't believe me because of what you see ...
violet		But you can believe what you feel.
violet		You see ...  I've been thinking about you all day.
corky		You planned this whole thing?
corky		You dropped that earring down the drain on purpose, didn't you?
violet		If I say yes, will you take your hand away?
corky		No.
violet		...  yes.
violet		Please, Corky ...  please ...
violet		...  kiss me.
caesar		Violet?
caesar		Violet, you home?
violet		Yeah.  In here, C.
caesar		What's this?
caesar		What the fuck is this?
violet		I didn't expect --
caesar		What the fuck is going on?
caesar		Oh, shit ...
violet		Caesar, this is Corky.  Corky, Caesar.
caesar		I'm sorry, Christ, I thought ... it's fucking dark in here.
violet		She is working for Bianchinni.
caesar		Oh, right, right.  Don mentioned that to me.  Hi, welcome to the family.
caesar		You're helping Rajeev?
corky		No.  Rajeev's in India.
violet		She's doing the work herself.
caesar		No shit.  Bianchinni hired you?  You know he's a good friend of mine. |Family, really.
corky		That's what Violet said.
caesar		So, you just got out?
violet		Jesus, Caesar!
caesar		What?  It ain't no big fuckin' deal. I know who Don hires.  Did you know he did time himself?
caesar		Thirteen fucking years.  See, there ain't no secrets here.
caesar		How many'd you do?
corky		Five.
caesar		Not bad.  What for?
violet		That's none of your goddamn business, Caesar.
caesar		You're right.  You don't have to tell me, if you don't want to.  I just hope you understand you're among good people here.
caesar		Come on, come on.  if you understand what I'm talking about you're going to take the money.  if you don't, I'm going to have to worry about you.
caesar		Good.  I hate to worry.  I got ulcers.
corky		I should be going.
caesar		What?  How about a drink?
corky		My brushes, I have to clean my brushes.  Thanks, though.
caesar		Another time.
corky		Sure.
corky		What are you doing?
corky		What am I doing?  I'm fucking up, that's what I'm doing.
violet		I had to see you.
corky		Look, I don't think this is a good idea.
violet		I wanted to apologize.
corky		Don't apologize, please.  I can't stand women who apologize for wanting sex.
violet		I'm not apologizing for what I did --
violet		I'm apologizing for what I didn't do.
violet		Do you have a bed somewhere?
corky		I can see again.
violet		...  I needed that.
corky		Tell me about it.
corky		Caesar's Mafia, isn't he?
violet		You have to ask?
corky		No.
violet		Funny, nobody calls it that anymore. Caesar calls it "The |Business."
corky		How did you meet him?
violet		They took over a club I was working at.  Caesar started managing it.
corky		He's a launderer?
violet		Basically.
corky		How long have you been with him?
violet		Almost five years.
corky		Five years is a long time.
violet		Yes, it is.
corky		The redistribution of wealth.
violet		What?
corky		Isn't that what you wanted to know? What I did time for?
violet		The redistribution of wealth?
corky		That's what I tell someone when I'm trying to get them in my bed.
violet		I'm already in your bed.
corky		My cellmate would say she did her time for getting caught.  She was always more honest than me.
corky		I started stealing when I was little. We were piss-poor, which is not an excuse, just a fact.
corky		The first time I remember so vividly. A bunch of us kids were at Waxman's Drugstore, when Mr. Waxman, who was a mean old prick, always worrying about us robbing him, dropped a roll of quarters.
corky		I can still hear that sound, those quarters, because right then something clicked inside of me.  Some instinct took over and as everyone, including Waxman, dove down, I reached up and emptied the cash register.
corky		I gave most of the money to my mom. I told her I found it at the trainyard.  She was so happy she cried, calling me her lucky charm. Fifteen years later, I guess my luck ran out.
corky		Sometimes I tell myself that I didn't have a choice, that stealing was surviving.  Usually I can admit that's bullshit.  I did it because it was a way out.  It was easy and I was good at it, real good.
corky		I don't usually talk this much.  I guess I have been rehabilitated.
violet		You didn't have to tell me if you didn't want to.
corky		I guess I wanted to.
violet		I'm glad you did.
corky		So am I.
shelly		I know he's gone.  Please.  I have to talk to you.
violet		I had this image of you, inside of me ...
violet		Like a part of me ...
violet		You are so beautiful.
violet		What's wrong?
corky		Nothing.
violet		Yes there is.  I felt it this morning when I brought you the coffee.
corky		Shit, here we go.
violet		You didn't want to see me, did you?
corky		If there is one thing I can't stand about sleeping with women, it's all the fucking mind reading.
violet		What are you afraid of?
corky		I'm not afraid of anything.
violet		I don't understand - ?
corky		I know!  You can't understand, because we're different, Violet.  We're different.
violet		We're not that different, Corky.
corky		How can you sit in that bed and say that?
violet		Because it's the truth.
corky		Let me guess.  This is where you tell me that what matters is on the inside.  That inside you, there is a little dyke just like me?
violet		Oh no, she's nothing like you.  She's a lot smarter than you.
corky		Is that what her daddy tells her?
violet		I know what I am.  I don't need to have it tattooed on my shoulder.
corky		What are you saying?  That you don't have sex with men?
violet		I don't.
corky		For Christ's sake, Violet!  I heard you!  Thin walls, remember?
violet		What you heard wasn't sex.
corky		What the fuck was it?
violet		All my life, everyone has been telling me that when I have sex, I'm not really having sex.  Not real sex. But they're wrong.  I know what is and isn't sex and what you heard was definitely not sex.
corky		What was it then?
violet		Work.
violet		You made certain choices in your life that you paid for.  You said you made them because you were good at something and it was easy.  Do you think you're the only one that's good at something?
violet		We make our own choices and we pay our own prices.  I think we're more alike than you want to admit.
corky		What about that guy this morning?
violet		You mean Shelly?
corky		Don't tell me, you're a workaholic.
violet		No.  Shelly knows what I am.  He saw me in a bar with another woman.
corky		I suppose he just wants to watch.
violet		Fuck it!  I think you better leave.
corky		I think so, too.
violet		Try not to steal anything on the way out.
corky		Shit.
angry voice		Shut the fuck up!  You piece of shit!
angry voice		You're going to tell us!  You're going to fuckin' tell us!  just a matter of fuckin' time!
angry voice		Where is it?  Where the fuck is it?!
angry voice		You shit!  You piece of shit!
angry voice		Did that hurt?  News flash, fucko: I'm just getting started.
johnnie		You got nerve trying to fuck us! Nobody fucks me!  Nobody fucks my father!  Nobody!  Nobody!
caesar		Whoa, whoa.  Come on, he's making too much noise.
johnnie		You hear that, bitch?  Be quiet!
caesar		Here, put this in his mouth.
johnnie		Prick!  I can go all night!  All night!
violet		Caesar, I'm leaving.
caesar		What?  Oh, come on, I didn't use one of the good towels.
violet		Caesar, I'm serious.  This is too much.  I have to get out of here.
caesar		Why?  'Cause you know him?
caesar		You women are so fucking sensitive.
caesar		But I don't want you to go.  I like you here.  You know this isn't easy for me, either.
caesar		Now why don't you go watch some TV or something?
mickey		Are you okay, Violet?
caesar		Mickey, why is Johnnie here?  You know how I feel about that fucking psycho.
mickey		Caesar, didn't I tell you to get something?
caesar		Sure, Mickey.  Sure.
mickey		You shouldn't have to see this.  Why don't you get out of here?  Go for a walk.
violet		Caesar wants me to stay.
mickey		Don't worry about Caesar.  I'll handle Caesar.  You just get out of here, okay?
violet		Thanks, Mickey.
mickey		Thanks, C.  Now let's end this thing.
mickey		Hey, Johnnie, ease up, okay.
johnnie		Prick.
mickey		Shelly, I'm going to ask you ten times.  You understand?  Ten times.
mickey		One.  Where is our money?
caesar		Aw ...  Christ.
corky		Violet?  Are you all right?
corky		Come on.  Let's go.
corky		Excuse me.
corky		Draft beer and a TNT.
violet		Shelly was skimming from the business. He came to see me yesterday because he was afraid Caesar figured it out. He wanted to run but he wanted me to come with him.
corky		Even though he knew about you?
violet		Yes.
corky		He was in love with you, right?
violet		That's what he told himself.  But it wasn't even about me, it was about Caesar.  He wanted what Caesar had. That's how they are.  I understand them.
violet		For Shelly, taking the money was a way to take from Caesar.  He could have run at any time, but he didn't because he didn't want out.
corky		Sounds like he wanted to get caught.
violet		Maybe he did.  He would brag to me all the time.  He was never afraid of Caesar because he didn't know him.  Not like I do.
violet		Caesar lives for these moments.  He tells me it's just the business, but I know it's more than that.  He likes it.  The violence.  I'll catch him in the bathroom mirror touching his scars.  He says they remind him who he his.  They're all like that. Except maybe Mickey.
corky		Mickey?
violet		He's the part of the business that the rest of them pretend to be. |But Mickey doesn't like it like they do.  I suppose that's why he's good at it.
violet		I used to be able to block it out. I would tell myself that I wasn't really there so nothing really mattered.  But I can't do it anymore.
violet		I've been making the same mistake Shelly made.  But now I know what |I want.
violet		I want out.  I want a new life.  I see what I've been waiting for, but I need you, Corky.
corky		For what?
violet		You made a choice once.  Do you think you would make that same choice again?
corky		What choice?
violet		If those quarters fell to the floor, would you still reach up to that cash register?
corky		Not here.
violet		Caesar is going to get the money and bring --
corky		How much money?
violet		Shelly said it was over two million dollars.
violet		Caesar will bring it to the apartment to count and go through |Shelly's books to figure out how he did it.
corky		Wait a minute.  Wait a minute.  Do you have any idea what you are saying? You are asking me to help you fuck the mob.
corky		These people are serious, Violet. If you want to know how serious, ask Shelly.  They're worse than any cop because they have lots of money and no rules.  You fuck them, you've got to do it right.
violet		That's why I need your help.  You said you were good.
corky		I am, but ...
corky		All right, let's say for the moment that I believe everything you are saying.
violet		You think I'm lying?
corky		I didn't say that, but since you did, let's say that you are.  It would have been easy to set Shelly up.  You could have got him killed knowing that Caesar would bring the money to the apartment.
corky		All you would need to keep yourself clean would be someone unconnected, someone like me.
violet		Is that what you think?
corky		I'm just making a point.  You have no idea what you're asking.  How much trust two people need to do something like this.
corky		For me, stealing is a lot like sex. Two people that want the same thing sit in a room and they talk, they start to plan and it's like flirting, a kind of foreplay, because the more they talk about it, the wetter they get.
corky		The difference is, I can have sex with someone I just met, someone I hardly know, but to steal I need to know someone like I know myself.
violet		Do you think you know me like that?
corky		I think ...
corky		We're going to find out.
corky		But first, I want to see this money.
violet		Oh my God ...
caesar		Don't worry.  It ain't mine.
violet		Caesar, what happened?
caesar		It was unbelievable!  Un-fucking- believable!
caesar		Goddammit, look at this shirt!  It's ruined!
caesar		It started when Shelly took us to the money.  I tell you, Mickey Malnato knows his shit, he does.  Shelly takes us right there.
caesar		So Shelly's down on his knees and he's pulling out this bag of money from a safe in the floor and I'm staring at it like "holy fuck!" I mean, look at it --
caesar		And all I can think is how the fuck did he do this when - Bang!  Johnnie caps him.  Blood sprays everywhere, all over the money.  We've no idea if this is even all of it.
caesar		And right then I go through the roof and - Boom!  I belt the dumb fuck as hard as I can.  I didn't care whose son he was, I just wanted to hit him again.  Knock some sense into that dumb son of a bitch.
caesar		Just look at this mess I got to deal with.
violet		What are you going to do with it?
caesar		I told them to run it through the cycles.  But I guess Gino has plans for it because he's coming here tomorrow night to pick this shit up.
caesar		Where the hell's the laundry detergent?
violet		Ummm ...  in the linen closet.
corky		Come to my place in the morning. Early, okay?
corky		...  no.
corky		You said he washed the money?
violet		Yeah.
corky		Then what?  Exactly.
violet		He hung it up.
corky		What?
violet		To let it dry.
violet		It was unreal ...
corky		And where is it now?
violet		In his office.  I saw it this morning.
violet		I need to go to the store.
violet		Yes.
corky		Good.
corky		All right, now, tell me about Johnnie.
violet		Johnnie?
corky		It sounded like he and Caesar don't like each other.
violet		Like each other?  They hate each other.
corky		Why?
violet		It started way before I was around. I think basically it's because he thinks Johnnie is a complete idiot. But Johnnie runs Chicago because Gino is his father.
corky		Who is Gino?
violet		Gino Marzzone.
corky		Marzzone?  As in Angelo Marzzone, head of the Marzzone family?
violet		That's his brother.
corky		...  shit.
corky		Gino Marzzone is coming tonight to pick up the money?
violet		Yeah.
corky		And Johnnie is his son, that's Johnnie Marzzone?
violet		Yeah.
corky		Sweet Jesus.
corky		It's perfect.
corky		Gino Marzzone is coming to your apartment.  It's a big deal, isn't it?  That means Caesar will be ready. He doesn't want to look like an idiot. Gino has been there before?
violet		Yeah, twice.
corky		What happened?
violet		Not much, really.  Caesar was nervous, kept cleaning the apartment.  |The first time, he picked out the dress he wanted me to wear.
corky		Does Johnnie hit on you?
violet		Johnnie hits on anything in high heels.
corky		Has Caesar ever seen him?
violet		He does it right in front of him.
corky		It's getting better and better. Keep going.
violet		Gino doesn't know English, or at least he pretends he doesn't, so he doesn't talk much.  He gets right to the point.  Both times they talked for about five minutes, had one drink and then they left.
corky		What did Gino drink?
violet		Scotch, Glenlivet.  I remember that Caesar made a huge deal about it.
corky		All right ...
corky		I have an idea to make this work.
corky		What time did you say they would be there?
violet		The plane is in at seven, so I'd say about eight.
corky		Any bodyguards?
violet		Gino travels with a big man named Roy.  Caesar calls him the driver.
corky		Fine.
caesar		Un-fucking-believable, what this guy did.  Shelly is one smart-ass mothefucker, I mean, he was one smart- ass motherfucker.
violet		Poor boy, has to work so hard.
caesar		You look good enough to eat.
violet		Where will you be?
corky		Waiting in the apartment next door.
violet		Shit!  Oh shit!
caesar		V, what?  You can't hear me?
violet		Caesar, it slipped ...  I was trying to get ready ...
caesar		Oh, fucking Christ ...  You gotta be kidding me!
caesar		Fuck!  Fuck!  How did you ...  Awwww goddammit!
violet		I'm sorry.  It was an accident.
violet		Don't worry, I'll get some more.
caesar		There's no time.
violet		Don't be silly, Caesar.  It'll take five minutes.
violet		I'll clean this up and be back before you're even dressed.
violet		You can't know for certain that he won't see you.
corky		Trust me, Violet.
violet		I'm just asking, what if?
corky		If he does ...
corky		Then I won't have a choice, will I?
corky		There is no going back.
violet		When I get the Scotch, how do I know you won't take off?
corky		The same way I'll know that you went to Scotch.  Trust.
violet		I still don't see how I'm going to get clean with the money in the apartment.  Everyone will think I did it.
corky		Not Caesar.
violet		Why?
corky		Because of what you are going to tell him.  You have to make it as real as you can.  The moment you open the door with the Scotch in your hand, you will be covered, and that moment is the most important moment in the plan.
violet		C!  Shit, I'm sorry!
violet		They were early.
caesar		What are you talking about?
violet		They just left, didn't they?
caesar		What are you, drunk?
violet		You mean they weren't up here?
caesar		No!  They're still on their way.
violet		That doesn't make any sense.
caesar		Why?
violet		Because I just saw Johnnie downstairs.
caesar		What?
violet		I was getting out of the car when I saw him in the Mercedes.
caesar		It couldn't have been.
violet		It was him.  I'm positive.
caesar		It's impossible!
violet		Caesar, I know Johnnie.  It was him. I screamed when I saw him.  I couldn't believe I missed them.  I knew you were going to be upset so I thought I'd apologize and give Gino the Scotch.  I honked a couple of times but he didn't stop.
caesar		But Gino's plane doesn't get in for another half-hour.
violet		Actually, I didn't see Gino in the car.
corky		If Caesar hates Johnnie like you say, then the second he opens the case he'll know, in his gut, that Johnnie just fucked him.  He'll realize that he has no choice.  He can't touch Gino or Johnnie.  There's only one way out.
corky		He'll have to run.
violet		If he runs, everyone will assume he took the money.
corky		You'll be clean and we'll be rich.
violet		Jesus, that's beautiful.
corky		Thank you.
violet		If you're this goddamn smart, how did you ever get caught?
corky		Every job like this has moments where things don't go so well and everyone starts thinking about their own ass. It's in those moments that everything comes together or falls apart.
corky		I had a partner and she fucked me.
violet		I won't.
corky		I think we're going to find out.
violet		Caesar?
caesar		No no no no ...
violet		Oh God ...
caesar		...  I've been set up.
violet		Johnnie?
caesar		That fuck!  That rat-fuck!  Little shit rat-fuck!
violet		Why?  Why would Johnnie do this?
caesar		Jesus Christ, Violet!  Open your fucking eyes!  Johnnie hates me like I hate him!
caesar		I hate that little fuck!  I hate him!  I hate him!  I should've done him!
violet		But you know he did it.
caesar		So what?!  So fucking what?  Use your head, Violet.  The money is gone.  Gino is coming here to get it.  You think he's going to believe me if I tell him his piss-hole son stole it!  Is that what you think? I don't.  You know what I think?  I think I'm a dead man.  I'm one in the brain.  That's what I think!
violet		Caesar, what are we going to do?
caesar		I know what he wants me to do.  He wants me out of here.  He wants me to run.
caesar		If I run, then everyone will think I took the money and he walks away with two million clean.
caesar		God, I can see him right now driving to get Gino.  I can hear him laughing, fucking laughing, laughing at me.
caesar		Laughing at me!  Laughing at me!
violet		C ...
caesar		Don't touch me!
caesar		Just leave me alone!  I got to think!
caesar		Got to think this through ...
violet		Caesar, maybe we should run --
caesar		Violet, please!
violet		I mean it, Caesar, forget Johnnie, forget the money, let's just go now, before it's too late --
caesar		Goddammit, Violet!  Would you just leave me the fuck alone!  Please! Leave!  Now!
violet		All right, Caesar.
corky		What happened?
violet		He totally freaked.  I've never seen him like this.  He's out of his fucking mind.
violet		Believes it!  Jesus, it's driving him crazy.  He wants to kill him.  I don't know, Corky, I don't know what he is going to do.  I'm getting nervous, really nervous.
corky		It's all right, Violet.  It's working. All we got to do is wait him out and see what he does.
corky		That means he probably will kill Johnnie.
corky		Listen, if he doesn't run, all you have to do is break down, go to your bedroom and pack some things, start crying, saying you love him but you can't do it.  You're sorry but you have to leave and just walk out.
violet		okay, all right.
violet		He's coming ...
caesar		I got it!  I know what I got to do! I got to get the money.
violet		The money?  The money's gone.
caesar		No.  Johnnie's got it.  All I got to do is get it back.
violet		But it could be anywhere.
caesar		He didn't have that much time.  He had to pick up Gino.  I bet you he's got it with him.  I bet it's in the car.
caesar		He didn't see you, did he?
violet		No.
caesar		See, right now he doesn't know that I know, that's why he put the paper in the case.  He wants me to hand the case to Gino.  Then there is no doubt it was me.  Gino will put a bullet in me himself.  But it ain't going to happen.  I won't let it! Johnnie ain't going to fuck me!  Not like this!  No way!
violet		This is insane!
caesar		What are you doing?
violet		I'm leaving!  This is crazy!  I don't want to be involved.  I don't want anything to do with this shit!
caesar		You can't leave.
violet		The hell I can't!
caesar		I need you ...
violet		Bullshit!  You don't need me!  You've never needed me!  I can't help you! Understand?!  I have to get out.
caesar		Violet, I won't let you leave.
caesar		If you're not with me, Violet, then I have to assume you're against me.
violet		Caesar, this is crazy.
caesar		Maybe it is, maybe it isn't.  Maybe you dropped the Scotch by accident. Maybe you didn't.
caesar		It would have been so easy to let him in as you went out.
violet		You don't, you can't believe that ...
caesar		I've seen the way he looks at you. He's always wanted you.  Maybe two million dollars finally bought you.
caesar		I'm sorry, Violet, but it has to be this way.
caesar		I hope you understand.  I want to trust you, I want to believe you, but I don't have any other choice.
caesar		You sure you don't want a drink?
johnnie		You shouldn't have hit me.
caesar		You want to get into this now?
johnnie		No, no, Caesar.  Not now.
gino		Hey, Caesar!  You take care of this girl, or I find out!
johnnie		You are as radiant as ever, Violet.
caesar		Glenlivet, right, Gino?
johnnie		I'll have whatever Violet's drinking.
violet		I'm not drinking.
johnnie		Then neither will I.
violet		No, I'll have a Tanqueray and tonic.
johnnie		Caesar, make that two TNTs.
johnnie		Salud, eh.  Roy, Violet, Pop, Caesar.
gino		No, Johnnie.  No goddamned phones. Not now.
johnnie		Pop?
gino		Caesar, come here.  Sit.  We talk now.  You too, Johnnie.
gino		Caesar, look at me.  Johnnie tell me what happened.  Caesar, you gotta do me a favor, a personal favor.  For me, eh?  You gotta start respecting Johnnie the way you respect me.  You understand?  Good.
gino		And you, Johnnie.  You gonna stop acting stupid.  You gotta earn this respect that Caesar's gonna give. You understand?  Good.  Done.  Now, where's my money?
gino		We know how this was done, eh?
caesar		Yeah, I know.
gino		It won't happen again, eh?
gino		Good.
gino		Done.  We go now.
johnnie		Jesus Christ, Pop.  You got two hours until your plane leaves.
gino		Caesar!
johnnie		So Caesar, what did it total out at?
caesar		Two point one seventy-six.
johnnie		Unbelievable.  Can you believe that, Violet?
gino		Hey, Johnnie ...
johnnie		Come on, Pop, all I want to know is one thing.  Just one thing after he made such a big deal out of it.  I bet it wasn't a big deal.  Was it, Caesar?
caesar		What's that, Johnnie?
johnnie		The money I bet it was nothing to get it clean, after you made such a fucking big deal ...
gino		Johnnie, what did I say?
johnnie		Pop, this is important to me.  It's a simple question.  if he would just answer the question, that's the end of it.
caesar		Where is this going, Johnnie?
johnnie		Just admit it, Caesar.
caesar		Admit what?
johnnie		That you overreacted.  That you lost it.  Not me.  It was your mistake.
caesar		All right, Johnnie, you want to play it this way, I can play it this way. You want to know who made a mistake, why don't you open the case.
violet		Caesar ...
caesar		Shut up, Violet!  This is between me and Johnnie.
caesar		You want to do this now, let's do it.  Open the case.  Open the fucking case.
caesar		That's right, I know.  I fucking know.
johnnie		Know what?
caesar		Open the case!
johnnie		All right!  Where's the key?
caesar		You don't need a key.
johnnie		How the fuck can I open it?
caesar		The same way you did before.
johnnie		What are you talking about?
caesar		There you go, Johnnie.
caesar		Get me another.
johnnie		What the ...
caesar		Don't!  Don't fucking move!
gino		Caesar?  What is this?
caesar		Ask Johnnie!  Ask your rat-fuck son!
johnnie		What the fuck?
caesar		You don't think I'll do it, do you?
johnnie		I think you're fucking crazy!
caesar		Where is it?
johnnie		Where's what?
caesar		The money!
johnnie		Caesar, I don't know what you're thinking here, but if you don't put down that gun --
caesar		Sit down!
gino		Caesar!
caesar		Gino, your son stole this money to set me up and I can prove it.  Violet!
caesar		Tell them!  Tell them!
violet		For Christ's sake, Johnnie, do what he says.
johnnie		This isn't happening ...
caesar		The next one blows off your dick.
johnnie		You're a dead man!  A fucking dead man!
caesar		Where is it?
gino		Enough!
caesar		No, Gino!
gino		You aim a gun at me?!  Do you know who I am?!  I am Gino Marzzone.  You understand?
caesar		Sit down, Gino!
gino		No, Caesar, gimme the gun.
caesar		Stay away!
gino		We're family, Caesar.
caesar		No!
gino		Gimme the gun.
caesar		I can't.  I can't.
gino		Give it to me.
gino		Good man.
corky		This is an emergency!
caesar		I had to do it, Violet.  You saw it. I had no choice.  It was Johnnie. That lying fuck.  He made me do it.
caesar		You lying rat-fuck.  You think you can set me up?  Is that what you think?  You stupid fuck.
caesar		I'm a dead man?  I'm a dead man? Guess again, fuck-face.  Who's dead? Who's the dead lying rat-fuck?  Take another guess, take another fucking guess!
violet		What are you doing?
caesar		...  maybe three hours.
violet		Caesar, what are you going to do?
caesar		What do you think we're going to do? We have to find the money.
violet		What?
caesar		Once we have the money, then none of this ever happened.
violet		Caesar, you just killed Gino Marzzone.
caesar		No I didn't.  Not if his body disappears and not if the money is still here.  Then they never showed up.
violet		What happened to them?
caesar		I don't know.  We may never know, but I'm going to guess it was a job, maybe the Karpoli family.
caesar		All part of the business.
caesar		We just got to find the money.  Once we do, everything is going to be all right.
violet		Oh, no.
caesar		Fuck.
violet		Caesar, what are we going to do?
caesar		They're just cops.  Stall them as long as you can.
caesar		Answer it!
violet		Hello?
violet		The police?
violet		Gunfire?  Is this a joke?
violet		How do I know you are cops?
violet		All right.
caesar		Get me a wet towel.
caesar		If you're thinking about doing something stupid, remember I just killed Gino Marzzone.  You understand what that means?
violet		They're just cops.
violet		I'm sorry, it's just you hear stories.
caesar		Hey, hey, Chicago's finest.
caesar		How's it going tonight, fellas?
caesar		Huh?  I'm sorry, I can only hear in this ear.
caesar		I'm Caesar and this here is my Violet.
caesar		Violet said something about gunshots?
caesar		The television?
caesar		Honey, why didn't you say something? Turn it off.
caesar		Fuck, this happened before.  It's this shitty ear.  Born with it.  The batteries wore out in my aid.  I'm sorry.
caesar		Hey, can I get you guys a beer?
caesar		Oh, right.
caesar		Yeah, why not?  It's right there.
caesar		I'm going to make myself a drink, if that's okay?
violet		...  thank you.
caesar		Good idea.
caesar		Let's go.
corky		...  shit.
caesar		Fuck!  Fuck!  Fuck!
violet		Caesar, someone could see us out here.
caesar		Get in.
caesar		Get in!  It's got to be at his house. That's the only other place it could be.
caesar		Violet!  Now!
corky		Two million dollars, Cork ...  Two million dollars ...
caesar		Okay, I come in ...
caesar		I've got the money ...
caesar		I can't wait to see the look on Caesar's face when he finds out.
caesar		Now I don't have much time ...
caesar		Got to put it someplace safe ...
caesar		...  put it ...
caesar		...  got it ...
violet		C?
caesar		Where did I put it?
caesar		Where's my fucking money?!  Fucking cocksuckers!  Where the fuck is it?!
caesar		Ow.
violet		C?
violet		It's not here, Caesar.
caesar		Where, then?
violet		I don't know.  it could be anywhere. We don't even know if he was alone. Please, Caesar, we don't have much time.  Let's get out of here.
violet		What are you doing?
caesar		We're going to need some time.
violet		Who are you going to call?
violet		Caesar?
caesar		Hey, Mickey.
violet		Oh, God.
caesar		Mick, I know it's late, but there is a problem.  They haven't shown up yet.
caesar		No.  I don't know where they are.  I even called over at Johnnie's, but no answer.
caesar		Okay, sure, Mick.
caesar		Yeah, Mick.  I've got the money. I'm staring right at it.
violet		I'll start packing.  You know what you have to do.
caesar		I can use Johnnie's car, dump it in Lake Michigan ...  I need plastic bags ...  tape and rope ...
violet		Just hurry.
violet		Please, Corky ...
violet		Oh, thank God.
corky		I'm still here.
violet		I was so afraid you ...
corky		You don't quit on me, Violet, and I won't quit on you.
violet		Corky, it worked!  He's going to run.  He needs to take care of the bodies to buy himself time, but as soon as he leaves, it's over.
violet		Corky, I have to tell you something ...
corky		I know, Violet.  I know.
corky		It's why I'm still here.
caesar		Who was that?
caesar		Who the fuck was that?
caesar		Was that Mickey?  Did you call Mickey? Did you?!
caesar		Mickey?  Is that you?
caesar		Who is that?  Who is over there?! Tell me!
violet		Run!  Just run!
caesar		Drop the fucking gun or die!
caesar		Drop it!
caesar		Turn around.
caesar		You!?  Holy fucking Christ!  You gotta be kidding me!
caesar		Good.
caesar		I know everything now so I don't want to hear any "I don't know" bullshit, you understand?
caesar		God, I should have seen this coming! The second I met you, I knew it. Everyone knows your kind can't be trusted!  Fucking queers make me sick.
caesar		But you tried to fuck the wrong guy. And I swear to you that I'm going to kill you for it.
caesar		Where is the money?
violet		Don't tell him --
caesar		Shut up, Violet!
violet		He can't kill you --
caesar		Violet!
violet		Not until he has the money!
caesar		Now, where the fuck is my money?
corky		Lick me.
caesar		Where is it?
corky		Either pull the trigger or get that thing out of my face.
caesar		Stupid cunt!
violet		Caesar, stop acting like an asshole and think --
caesar		Don't try to tell me what to do.
violet		You need the money just like we do.
caesar		Shut up, Violet.
violet		Let us go and we'll make a deal.
caesar		Shut the fuck up!
caesar		What did you do to her?!  This isn't my Violet!
caesar		What did she do to you?
violet		Everything you couldn't.
caesar		You ungrateful bitch!  You had nothing before I met you.  You were nothing!
caesar		Who gave you this place?  This apartment?
caesar		Who gave us all of this?  I did!  I gave you everything!  I gave you this life!  I made you, Violet.  I saved you.
caesar		I saved you.
violet		Ha!  What a load of crap.  Look at yourself, Caesar.  You're a thug. |You launder money for the mob.  You rent women like you rented this apartment.
violet		Saved me?  You don't even know me. You used me, Caesar, just like I used you.  All part of the business.
caesar		You betrayed me!
violet		You murdered Gino!
caesar		I had to.  You made me.
violet		Bullshit, you killed him.  Not me. You did it because you couldn't stand the thought of Johnnie fucking you.
caesar		Shut up!
caesar		Okay, you want business, I'll give you the fucking business.
caesar		I'm going to make you beg just like Shelly did.  Just like Shelly!
violet		I'm sorry, Corky ...
corky		Don't be sorry.  Help me.
caesar		Oh, no no no.
caesar		Hey, Violet, you remember these?
caesar		I'm going to start with her so you'll get a good idea what's coming.
caesar		I'm going to ask you where the money is.  Every time you don't give me an answer, I'm going to cut off one finger.
corky		No.
caesar		When I reach ten, then I'll start with you.
caesar		Where is the money?
caesar		...  Mickey.
caesar		I said where --
corky		No!  I'll tell you!
corky		It's over there in the empty apartment.
corky		I put it inside one of the paint drums.
caesar		I promised I would kill you.
corky		You can't kill me yet.
caesar		Why?
corky		I could be lying.
caesar		You're going to wish to God you hadn't done that.
caesar		Fuck.
caesar		Son of a bitch ...
caesar		Mickey will get in.  I know he will.
caesar		Violet.  I can kill you right now if that's what you want.  If you want to live, then you have to help me. I need you to make Mickey believe that everything is normal.
caesar		Tell me, do you want to live?
caesar		Good girl.
caesar		Jesus Christ!
caesar		Holy fuck, Mickey!  You scared the shit outta me.
caesar		What is this?  what are you two doing, sneaking in here with your peckers in your hands?  You gonna do me, Mick?  Is that it?
mickey		No, Cease.  There was no answer.
caesar		I thought I heard someone knocking.
mickey		I was buzzing, I was knocking, but I guess you couldn't hear me on account of being in the shower.
caesar		Yeah, it was Violet's idea.  I was so wound up about Gino, she was trying to help me relax.
mickey		That Violet is one nice lady.  Wish someone would help me relax.
caesar		Shit, Mick, come on in, let me get you a drink.  Sit down, Lou.
mickey		We was worried about you, Cease.
caesar		Me?  Why?
mickey		We went over to Johnnie's place just to check it out and it was busted up, Bad.
mickey		I started thinking maybe it's about the money so I call you, but all I get is the busy signal.  I figure the phone is off the hook, that's why I come rushing over here.
caesar		Oh Christ, the phone ...  That was a fucking stupid thing to do, wasn't it?
mickey		Hey, if Violet was helping me relax, I'd probably do the same thing.
mickey		Cease, can I ask you something?
caesar		Yeah.
mickey		Why'd you move all the furniture around?
mickey		Let me guess.  That was Violet's idea, too.
caesar		Actually, yeah, she was nervous about Gino coming, wanted everything to look right.  You know women, Mick.
mickey		Sure, Cease.  They make us do stupid things, don't they.
mickey		Is that the money?
caesar		Yeah, that's it.
mickey		That fucking Shelly.  I gotta hand it to the guy, but Jesus, if I were him I would have bailed a long time ago.  I mean, how much money does a man need?
mickey		I remember I was just staring at all this goddamn money, Shelly down on his knees, and the next thing I know, Johnnie just blows his head off.
mickey		What a fucking mess.  Johnnie's laughing his ass off and that's when Caesar lost it and - Boom.  He coldcocked him.  Fucking coldcocks Johnnie Marzzone.
mickey		Hey, Caesar, where's the key?
caesar		The key, yeah, the key's in my pants in the bathroom.
mickey		Fuck it, I don't need the key.
mickey		I didn't need a key to get in here, did I?
mickey		Who the hell could that be?
mickey		You gonna answer it?
violet		Hello, Caesar.  This is Gino.
violet		You're blowing your only chance. Act like I'm Gino.
caesar		Holy shit, I don't believe it!  We've been going crazy over here, Gino!
caesar		It's Gino!  It's Gino!
mickey		Where in the hell is he?
violet		We were in a car accident --
violet		But everybody is all right.
caesar		They're all fine.  Just bruises and shit.
mickey		Un-fucking-believable.  I called those highway patrol dumb fucks.
caesar		Ssh!  I can't hear Gino!
caesar		I'm listening.
violet		I want what's mine, half the money. We get rid of Mickey, no one else dies.  No one.  Say yes, I understand.
violet		Tell them I'm at St. Mary's off the Kennedy, in the waiting room, but stay on the phone until I come out.
caesar		St.  Mary's off the Kennedy, sure. Okay, Gino.
violet		Mickey?  What are you doing here?
mickey		Violet, it's Gino and Johnnie.  They were in a car accident.
violet		Oh my God.  Was anyone hurt?
mickey		I think everything is okay.
caesar		They're at St.  Mary's in the waiting room.
mickey		I can't fit them all in my car so give me your keys.  You drive my car, Lou.
caesar		Sure, Mickey, sure.  Violet!
caesar		Go grab my car keys from my pants in the bathroom.
caesar		Please, help us out, Mickey wants to get going.
mickey		They might want to go straight to the airport and back to Miami, so I better take this.
mickey		You got the key?
caesar		Oh yeah.  Violet!
mickey		Thanks, V.
caesar		Call me as soon as you get him.
mickey		Leave your phone on the hook.
caesar		Now that's teamwork.
violet		I should have let him kill you.
caesar		You know he would have done you, too.
violet		I knew I couldn't trust you.
caesar		I said I'd let you live and I will.
caesar		Maybe.
caesar		Time to find out if the dyke was stupid enough to lie.
caesar		Yes!
caesar		No!
caesar		Violet!
caesar		Fuck!
caesar		Goddammit, Violet!  Stop!  Now!
violet		Come on.  Come on, please.
caesar		Oh, you bitch.  You fucking bitch.
violet		Mickey!  Oh God, Mickey!
violet		He made me help him, Mickey, God, I was so afraid.  It was Caesar, all Caesar.  You have to help me.  He's coming - Oh God!
violet		Corky?
violet		Corky!
violet		Stop!
violet		It's over, Caesar.  I called Mickey. He's on his way.
violet		Get out of here, Caesar.  If you want to live you had better start running.
caesar		All these years and you still don't know me, Violet.
caesar		But I know you.
violet		Caesar, don't.
caesar		What are you going to do, V?  Shoot me?  Kill me in cold blood?  I don't think so.  I'll tell you why.  If you had it in you to pull that trigger, you would have done it a long time ago.  If I was you, I would have killed me the minute I brought the money home.  But you didn't and I know why, because you don't want to kill me.  Do you, V?  Do you? No, I know you don't.
violet		Caesar, you don't know shit.
violet		I will never understand it, Mickey. You didn't even call the police.
mickey		I told you, the family doesn't want the police around.  We want to take care of it ourselves and we will. I'll find him.  I swear I will.
violet		I know you will.
mickey		Sure you're going to be okay?  I mean, if you're having second thoughts, my offer still stands.
violet		Thanks, Mickey, but I need to get out, you know?  Get away from all of this.
violet		But thanks.  Thanks for everything.
corky		Hey.
violet		Hey.
corky		How'd it go?
violet		I'm here, aren't I?
corky		I guess we should get out of here.
corky		Thought we might need a getaway car.
corky		You know what the difference is between us, Violet?
violet		No.
corky		...  Me neither.
****Dialogues from script :Bounty_Hunter.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Bourne_Identity.txt****

giancarlo		-- it's here -- hang on -- it's here somewhere -- give me a minute -- get some blankets -- get some blankets on him --  -- here we go -- here it is --
the captain		Giancarlo.  We pick him up? Okay, we have to pick him up. But that's as far as it goes.
giancarlo		He needs a doctor.
captain		Fuck that. He lives? He dies? I don't care. We've wasted two hours on this shit already. You do what you can, but we're not going back.  You understand me?
giancarlo		Yes, sir.
captain		 Let's get back to work!
giancarlo		You're awake. Can you hear me?  You were in the water. You've been shot. It's okay now.
the man		Where am I?
giancarlo		 You're American. I thought so. From your teeth -- the dental work --
the man		Where am I?
giancarlo		You're on a boat. A fishing boat. Italian flag. We're out of Vietri.  It's the cold that saved you. The water. The wounds are clean. I'm not a doctor, but the wounds, it looks okay. It's clean.
the man		How did I get here?
giancarlo		You we're lost at sea. They pulled you out.  Who are you?
the man		I don't know.
the man		What if it doesn't come back?
giancarlo		 I told you. You need to rest.
the man		I can read. I can read that sign on the door. I can count. I can talk...  What are you doing?
the man		What is that?
giancarlo		It came from your hip. Under the skin.  You remember Zurich?
the man		No.
giancarlo		Look, I'm just on this boat, okay? I'm an engineer. Whatever this is, it's not for me to be involved, okay?
the man		I don't remember Zurich.
giancarlo		 You drink rum?
the man		I don't know.
the man		 I don't know who I am. Do you know who I am? Do have any idea who I am?
the man		 Tell me who I am. If you know who I am, please stop fucking around and tell me.
giancarlo		 It's not much, but it should get you to Switzerland.
the man		I won't forget this.
ticket agent		Una sola via?
the man		Si. One way. Una sola via.
marshall		That's Nykwana Wombosi speaking in Paris the day before yesterday. I'm sure most of you have a passing knowledge of Mr. Wombosi. Some of you on the African desks have worked with him over the years. Some of you very closely...
marshall		...He was an irritation before he took power. He was a problem when he was in power. And he's been a disaster for us in exile.  Wombosi likes to send us messages through the European media. This is an interview we pulled down from a local German television station in Dresden. We've been getting these little broadsides every couple of months. He knows this -- he knows that -- he's writing a book about the Agency's history in Africa -- he's going to name names. It's basically a shakedown...
marshall		This interview -- and I'll make the tape available for anyone who wants it -- he goes on to claim that he has just survived an assassination attempt. He says it's us. He says he's got proof.  The Director wants to know if there is any possible shred of truth in this accusation.
the man		I've lost them. I've...  My papers. They are lost.
the man		-- look, I'm just trying to sleep okay? --  -- I just need to sleep --
conklin		 What?
zorn		Abbott wants to talk.
conklin		Tell him we're busy.
zorn		I tried.
abbott		Storm clouds are gathering, Ted. It looks like rain and I don't have a thing to wear.
conklin		I don't know what we're talking about.
abbott		We're talking about Marseille. We're talking about Nykwana Wombosi. And I'm asking you if this abortion in Marseille has anything to do with Treadstone.  Was this Treadstone?
conklin		You're asking me a direct question?
abbott		Yes.
conklin		I thought you were never going to do that.
abbott		They're putting together an agency oversight committee. They're going to look through everyone's budgets. Treadstone is a rather sizable line item in my ledger.  What am I going to do about that?
conklin		You'd want to make that go away. You'd want to remind them that Treadstone is a training organization. That it's all theoretical. You'd want to sign off on that.
abbott		And what if I couldn't do that?
conklin		Then I'd have to explain Treadstone. And you'd have to explain how you let me get this far.  We'll clean up the field. You clean up your budgets.
receptionist		Can I help you?
the man		I'm here about a numbered account.
receptionist		 If you'll just enter your account number here I'll direct you to the appropriate officer.
apfel		Good morning, sir. I assume you're here about your box.
the man		...yes...  The box.
bourne		My name is Jason Bourne.  Hi, I'm Jason. Jason Bourne. Jason Bourne, nice to meet you.
bourne		Bourne. My name is Jason Bourne. I live at 121, Rue de la Jardin, Paris.
bourne		I'm trying to think how long it's been since I was here.
deposit guard		I'm not sure. Must be three weeks.
marie		-- and so now I lost my apartment, I have no address, and I have no visa, and you keep telling me how much help you cannot give me!
clerk		Miss Kreutz, please... I'm gonna have to ask you to keep your voice down.
marie		All the papers -- all the papers they asked for -- I brought all the papers --
clerk		Miss Kreutz, excuse me, but you entered into a fraudulent marriage in an effort to circumvent the immigration laws of the United States --
marie		You only know that because I told you! 
clerk		-- it's not the source of the information that's important here --
marie		-- I paid this fucking guy -- I paid him four thousand dollars -- my last four thousand dollars to marry me, okay? -- I told this to the case officer last week...  ...here -- Mr. Thomas. I told Mr. Thomas I didn't know this guy was already married -- I admitted this!
clerk		-- Miss Kreutz, please --
marie		-- I'm the one that got ripped off! -- not you -- not the United States government -- me -- I'm the one being ripped off!
clerk		So now you're asking for a student visa?
conklin		-- and they're sure it's him? --
zorn		-- he accessed the account --
conklin		-- but it was him --
zorn		-- yes, sir, it's confirmed --
woman clerk		 You're a U.S. Citizen?
bourne		Yes.  I mean, I think so. Yes. Yes...
woman clerk		Well, either you are, or you aren't.
bourne		Right.
woman clerk		You have your passport?
bourne		I have a passport. I've got...  Actually, it's a little complicated.
woman clerk		Do you have your passport, sir?
bourne		Look, maybe I should just...
woman clerk		Sir, you waited on line.
bourne		Yeah, I know...
security chief		 -- YOU -- red bag -- the red bag -- stop right there! -- hands up! --
gun marine		-- you heard him -- let's move it! -- down -- let's go! --
security chief		-- no -- no -- hold your fire! --
someone screaming		-- he's got a gun! -- he's got a gun! --
deputy dcm		-- what're you talking about? --
security chief		-- we're evacuating the building --
deputy dcm		-- we're in the middle of a trade meeting! --
security chief		-- call the code! -- I want everyone out! --
deputy dcm		-- you gotta give me more to go on --
security chief		-- he's running from the cops, he's got a bag filled with God knows what, he's in the building and I don't know where! --
lead marine		-- HALT! -- STOP WHERE YOU ARE! --
security chief		-- blow it -- shoot it open! --
security chief		-- check the closets! -- get those back doors covered -- there's a kitchen back there -- go! -- go! -- go!
security		-- we're gonna go room by room until we find him -- so let's get teamed up --
marie		 What are you looking at?
bourne		I need a ride.
marie		What?
bourne		I need a ride out of here.
marie		Oh, Jesus... 
bourne		Please. I don't want to scare you.
marie		It's a little late for that.
bourne		I've got a situation here and --
marie		Get the fuck away from my car.
bourne		I'll give you ten thousand dollars to drive me to Paris.
marie		Great. You know what? I'll give you ten gazillion dollars to get the fuck away from me before I start screaming my head off.
bourne		You don't want the police any more than I do.
marie		Jesus...
bourne		Get me out of here. Please.
conklin		go -- keep going -- go...wait -- stop -- you went past it --
conklin		 It's him. My God, it's really him...
conklin		No...  Let's get a map, let's get a grid map on Zurich.
zorn		 Sir...
conklin		What?
zorn		Zurich police are looking for an American with a red bag. Apparently he put two cops in the hospital last night.
conklin		What the fuck is he doing?
zorn		Maybe it's a game. Maybe he's trying to send us a message.
conklin		It doesn't matter now. We've just got to be the first ones there.  Get everybody up. I want them all activated.
zorn		All of them?
conklin		You heard me.
marie		So what's in Paris?
bourne		I want to go home.
marie		For twenty thousand dollars.
bourne		I said ten thousand.
marie		You have blood on your pants.
bourne		Okay.  Twenty thousand. Ten now. Ten there.
marie		No. No, that was too easy -- 
bourne		Wait up --  -- just wait up --
marie		-- get the fuck out of here -- all this money, this crazy offer, I mean give me a fucking break with this, this is -- 
bourne		Look, I want a ride to Paris.  That's all I want. I swear.
marie		You swear?  That's great. I feel so much better now.
bourne		I don't want anything but a ride. All I want to do is go home.
marie		You could buy a car for twenty grand. You could buy this car.
bourne		I don't want to go alone. I want you to drive me to Paris. Like we're a couple. Like we're a couple and we're travelling together. That's all we're doing.
marie		And I don't get hurt. I get twenty thousand dollars and I don't get hurt.
bourne		I won't hurt you.
marie		What if I say no?
bourne		Then I'll find another ride.
marie		Just so you know, if you're gonna burn me on the money, you might as well kill me.  I was supposed to have this car back three days ago. It's not my car.
bourne		I know that.
marie		Shit --  Can I tell you how much you're freaking me out? Okay? Because you are -- you're completely freaking me out.
bourne		I'm sorry. Really. What do you want me to do?
marie		I don't know. Smile. Sneeze. Something. You've got a bag full of money and a ride to Paris. Fuck it, I don't know...  What kind of music do you like?
bourne		I don't know.
marie		What does that mean?
bourne		Listen to what you want.
marie		 Who pays twenty thousand dollars for a ride to Paris?
bourne		I don't know. I don't know who I am.
marie		Yeah, well, welcome to the club.
bourne		No. No, I mean, I really don't know who I am. I can't remember anything earlier than two weeks ago.  I'm serious.
marie		What? Like amnesia?
bourne		Look, go ahead... put the radio on...
marie		Amnesia?  You're saying you don't remember anything that happened before two weeks ago?
bourne		That's what I'm saying.
marie		 Give me a fucking break.
wombosi		Get the fuck out of my way -- 
wombosi		 It's not him.
wombosi		 So who's crazy now?
marie		And you have no idea -- not a clue -- what came before that?
bourne		No.
marie		When you think of it, before the ship -- before you wake up on the ship, what do you see?
bourne		Nothing. It's just not there.
marie		Well, this is great.  I'm sick of myself and you have no idea who you are.
bourne		I kept trying things, I thought if I could find all the things I could do, I could --
marie		-- you could put it together --
bourne		-- which was okay for a while, I was okay with it...  I think something bad happened.
marie		What are you talking about?
bourne		I don't know.
marie		Sounds like you were in an accident or something.
bourne		I was shot twice in the back.
marie		Okay, so you're a victim.
bourne		There was a gun. Who has a safe deposit box with a gun and all this money and all these passports?
marie		Lots of people have guns. You're American. Americans love guns.
bourne		I fought my way out of an embassy. I climbed down a fifty-foot wall -- I went out the window and I was doing it -- I just did it. I knew how to do it.
marie		People do amazing things when they're scared.
bourne		Why do I? -- I come in here -- instinctively -- first thing I do -- I'm looking for the exit -- I'm catching the sightlines -- I know I can't sit with my back to the door --
marie		You're paranoid. You were shot. It's natural.
bourne		I can tell you the license plate numbers of all three cars out front. I can tell you that the waitress is left-handed and the guy at the counter weighs two-hundred and fifteen pounds and knows how to handle himself. I know that the best, first place to look for a gun is the cab of that grey truck outside. I know that at this altitude I can run flat out for half a mile before I lose my edge. I knew that you were my first, best option out of Zurich? How do I know all that? How can I know all that and not know who I am? How is that possible?
marie		God, you're not kidding, are you?
conklin		And that's the best angle of the courtyard?
conklin		What do they have on the streets? The area. They must have something.
conklin		What?
zorn		Abbott. He knows about the embassy. He's coming down for a show and tell.
conklin		That'll solve all our problems.
conklin		 What's that?
conklin		Enhance it.
marie		I needed a break.
bourne		Where are we?
marie		We're about an hour away.
bourne		I can't believe I slept.
marie		You were tired. Here...  So what do you dream about?
bourne		I dream I'm asleep. I dream that I'm asleep and I can't wake up.  I don't think I smoke.
marie		You ever think maybe you have a family?
bourne		I thought about it. I don't know.
marie		I guess it's like Christmas every day for you, huh?
abbott		Who is she?
zorn		Marie Helene Kreutz. She's twenty- six. Born outside Munich. Father was a welder. He died in '91. We don't have the mother. There might be a step-sister, we're trying to track that down.  It's tough. She's a wanderer. She pops up on the grid here and there but... I mean, the last time she paid an electric bill in Europe was '94. No taxes. No steady employer. She's got three arrests. Two shoplifting cases, one in Spain, one in Germany. And she actually did three months in an Italian detention center for credit card fraud.
abbott		No political affiliations?
conklin		She's a gypsy. If it's a cover, it's a great one.
abbott		I'm assuming we're exploring that possibility.
conklin		We're exploring every possibility.  We are in pursuit. How much more do you want me to tell you?
abbott		Pursuit would indicate that you know exactly where he is.
conklin		No. Pursuit ends when we know exactly where he is.
abbott		Yes, well, I think we need some fresh eyes on this problem. I'm bringing in some people from upstairs.
conklin		We've been down here for two weeks banging our heads against the wall. We've been sleeping down here. We just got our first lead fourteen hours ago, and now? -- now that we finally have something to work with -- you want to bring planning personnel down here?  I'd rethink that.
abbott		I want a second opinion.
conklin		This is an operations desk.
abbott		I'm not asking.
bourne		Slow down. No, don't stop. Just...
marie		 That's it? Is that it?
bourne		Four-fifty. That's the address...
marie		Looks familiar?
bourne		No.  No. Go around. Keep going...
marie		Where?
bourne		Yeah. Pull in here. Park it.
marie		So this is it, right?
bourne		I guess.
marie		I should go.
bourne		I don't remember any of this.
marie		Jason...
bourne		Sorry. The money, right?
marie		Okay, so...
bourne		Thanks for the ride.
marie		Anytime.
bourne		Look, I don't know what's up there.
marie		You got me pretty fucking curious.
bourne		Look, you could come up. Or you could wait if you want. I could go check it out. You could wait.
marie		Nah...  With you, I mean, you'd probably just forget about me, right?
bourne		How could I forget about you?  You're the only person I know.
marie		I guess you're not home.
concierge		 Mr. Bourne, there you are -- I was wondering -- I haven't seen you --
bourne		Here I am.
bourne		 I seem to have lost my key.
concierge		I've been ringing your bell. It's good you were away. We had some trouble with the hot water. It's been repaired.
bourne		Great. We could use a shower.  It was a long drive.
marie		It's big.
marie		This is like a real apartment.  This is really yours?
bourne		I guess so.
bourne		This is my frying pan.  I'm Jason Bourne and this is my kitchen.
marie		This is your office?  God, you live like a monk...
bourne		All this stuff -- it's all about boats.  I think I'm in the shipping business.
marie		See. It's starting to come back, yeah?  You mind if I take a bath?
bourne		Go ahead.
phone machine		"You have no messages."
bourne		...yes -- oui -- uh...
bourne		Paris?
bourne		Yes, I'm...I'm looking for Mr. Jason Bourne.
bourne		D'accord... Merci.  Un moment -- un moment --
bourne		-- hang on -- I need you to check another name for me -- hang on -- un moment, s'il vous plait --
bourne		 Kane. Do you have Mr. John Michael Kane?
bourne		Yes, I'm here...
bourne		Yes. Is he there?
bourne		Yes.
bourne		...I understand...
bourne		Who? Who came?
bourne		Right. Yes. Of course.
bourne		Do you -- his brother -- do you have a phone number?
marie		 She wasn't kidding about the water. It's freezing.
bourne		Hang on. I'll check the kitchen...  Maybe it takes a while to get all the way upstairs.
bourne		Yeah, it's cold in here, too...  Let's give it another minute.
marie		 -- what're you? -- no -- no --
bourne		-- no -- Marie -- no! -- it's not like that --
marie		-- please -- Jason -- omigod --
bourne		-- quiet -- quiet --
marie		...what are you doing?...
marie		omigod -- omigod -- what're you doing? -- what're you doing? --  -- what is he? -- what've you? -- omigod -- what is this? --
marie		-- what're you doing? -- Jason, please, tell me what's happening!
bourne		Open it --  -- do it -- what's he got in there?
bourne		Who are you?  -- who are you?
bourne		-- who are you? -- tell me who you are -- who sent you? --  -- what is this about? -- YOU'VE GOT TO TELL ME WHAT THIS IS ABOUT! --
bourne		WHY ARE YOU TRYING TO KILL ME?
marie		 ...omigod, no...
bourne		What? -- what? --  -- what is it?
marie		...this is my picture... he's got my picture --  -- this is me -- this is Zurich -- this... this... this is yesterday --
bourne		-- just --
marie		-- where does this come from? --  How do you have my picture?
bourne		Marie, just --  -- just stay there! -- just --
marie		-- he's got my picture! -- this is yesterday! -- this is me! --  -- where did you get my picture? --
bourne		-- let me do this, okay? --
marie		-- do what? -- what are you doing? -- he's got my picture --  -- he's -- my God -- look at him -- he's bleeding to death -- my picture -- look! -- he was trying to kill us! -- omigod --
the concierge		 --I'm calling the police, Mr.  Bourne -- you give me no choice -- I'm calling them right away! --
bourne		-- your shoes -- Marie! -- where? -- where are your shoes? -- Marie --
marie		He's dead isn't he?
bourne		Marie -- look at me -- there's no time for this --
marie		He went out the window -- why? -- why would someone do that?
bourne		-- we can't stay here -- I can't stay here -- it's not safe here --
marie		He came to kill us.
bourne		-- we can go -- I can get us out of here -- but we have to go now --
marie		You knew he was coming.
bourne		No.
marie		I trusted you.
bourne		You're wrong. I didn't know.
marie		I don't trust anybody and I trusted you!
bourne		I didn't know this would happen.
marie		He had my picture! He knew I was here! He came here to kill us!
bourne		And where is he now?  You believe what you want, but I'm telling you the truth -- I never would have brought you here if I thought it was dangerous.
marie		 Oh, Jesus...
bourne		You stay -- if you want, you stay -- it's okay -- it's better -- maybe it's better -- I don't know --  But I can't stay here. I can't.
marie		But the police --
bourne		-- there's no time --
marie		-- we'll explain it --
bourne		-- how? --
marie		-- there's two of us -- we'll tell them -- we'll just --
bourne		-- forget it --
marie		-- we'll tell them what happened --
bourne		I don't know what happened!  I don't know who he is! I don't know what he wants! I don't even know who I am! The only thing I know is that if I stay here, I'm never gonna find out!
bourne		Come with me.  I can protect you.
wombosi		-- No! -- I say, no! -- they go this far -- out a body in the grave -- another body! -- no! -- this isn't over -- these people are not finished -- nothing will make them finish until they have Wombosi! -- the real Wombosi -- until I'm the one in the box! --
wombosi		-- what are you doing? -- 
wombosi		-- there is no box for Wombosi! -- they don't have a box that can hold me! -- I know these people -- I know they never sleep! -- I know they never stop! -- they never stop until the knife is at their throat! -- 
wombosi		-- and it won't just be me! -- they don't just want Wombosi now! -- they want my babies -- they want my children! -- and I say no! --  -- everything changes here now! -- everyone is a soldier here now! -- this is a fortress now! Are we clear with this?
deauvage		Yes, sir. All clear.
wombosi		This man is out there. Kane is out there. And they pretend he's dead. That means he's coming back.
conklin		Is that a medical term?
abbott		Let's assume that's true.
conklin		This unit has an unblemished record of success.
conklin		That was two hours -- two hours to get a second opinion -- and nothing changes. He's loose. He's out of control. It's very clear what needs to happen.  I have work to do.
abbott		What if he is working for someone else? What if he turned?
conklin		Turn? To who? Where does he turn? What does he have to offer? He's got nothing. He's a killer. He's a piece of equipment for crissake. Where's he gonna turn?
bourne		No.  I can't live like this. I can't do anything until I know who I am. Believe me, you don't want what I have.
marie		You stayed there five times in the past six months. But I didn't have time -- I could only get the bill from the last stay -- you were there for two days. Some room service -- there's half a dozen phone calls here so that's someth--
bourne		 Who paid the bill?
marie		It's a company... MPG Capital.
marie		This can't be it.
telephone voice		I'm afraid there's no Richard here. 
bourne		Well, where are you? Where am I calling?
telephone voice		This is an answering service, sir. The company's located in Southampton, but --
bourne		-- this is a tire dealership, right?
telephone voice		No sir, this is a navigational chart registry. I'm afraid you have the wrong number.
bourne		Hey, so this is the Marina, right?
new voice		Yes, sir. Can I help you?
bourne		 This is the one in Marseille, right?
conklin		-- let's check that Interpol window again --
conklin		-- I want that red car -- the girl -- we gotta get lucky here --
abbott		No.  We can't risk it.
conklin		Our last sighting was forty-eight hours ago. Even if they stayed in the car, the grid is huge.  This is it. He's trained -- conditioned -- they're built to disappear. You give him another day to run and we may never find him.
abbott		This doesn't go upstairs.
rawlins		Mr. Kane...  Come right in... please... have a seat.
bourne		Thanks.
rawlins		Well...  I must admit, when my assistant told me you were here I was, really -- I was quite -- I was surprised.
bourne		Really.
rawlins		We thought you were gone for good.
bourne		Did you?
rawlins		Well, I mean it's a tough business, isn't it? Cutthroat.
rawlins		 I'm assuming you're still in the market. It's the same vessel?
bourne		Yes.
rawlins		We just picked up a job quite like the one we were bidding for you. Gorgeous boat, hundred-and-seventy- five-foot pleasure cruiser. I think we learned a few things that might allow us to make our proposal for your job, as I said, a bit more competitive.
bourne		Okay.
rawlins		Was it the break-in?
bourne		Excuse me?
rawlins		We also thought we hadn't heard from you -- we've had a bit of a publicity nightmare, people have been talking.  Our offices were broken into -- vandalism mostly -- shortly after we last spoke.
bourne		I hadn't heard.
rawlins		Let me get you a new copy of the proposal.
bourne		That'd be great.
marie		I found it.  I found Kane. I found the body.
bourne		Let's go --  We got to get away from this phone.
bourne		Kane. John Michael Kane.
bourne		I want to see the body.
marie		What?
morgue boss		They came last night.  His brother.
morgue boss		Who are these people?  Who are you? What's going on here?
bourne		Where did this body go?
morgue boss		I said, someone came last night --  Look, this isn't a carnival -- people call and they make an appointment and they follow the rules -- everyone signs in and out -- this is a serious place -- serious work -- it's not just to come in whenever you like --
bourne		 Shit, we didn't sign in.
morgue boss		So get the hell out of here.
bourne		Fine. But I'd like to sign in. In fact, I insist on it. Where's the book? I gotta sign in -- 
bourne		Is this it? --  -- this is it, right? --
morgue boss		-- slow down -- you can't just take the book like that --
bourne		-- don't sweat it, I have a pen -- no problem -- just let me find the page --  -- honey, why don't you wait for me outside, okay? --
morgue boss		-- we have rules here, this is a very serious place -- I'm the one who decides who gets in here, okay? --
bourne		-- what do I? -- I put the name of the person I came to see? --
morgue boss		-- this is serious business down here and we cannot have people coming and going --
bourne		-- here we go -- I found it --
morgue boss		-- what are you? -- what are you doing? -- you crazy fuck -- you ripped the book! -- you stupid fucki-- 
marie		What are you doing? --  -- Jason -- stop -- talk to me...
marie		-- I don't know what you're doing and you're scaring me -- what are you looking for? -- what just happened in there? --
bourne		Nykwana Wombosi. 
marie		What is that?
bourne		It's a name. Mr. Wombosi owns a thirty million dollar yacht. He's the proud owner of an Alliance Security package. 
marie		What does that mean?  Jason, please... who is he?
bourne		I don't know. 
marie		So what are we doing?
bourne		Go back to the hotel.
zorn		They found him. They found Bourne.
abbott		Where?
zorn		You better come in.
deauvage		Jesus fuck, what is this?
abbott		Omigod.
conklin		-- how long? --
abbott		-- he went inside! --
conklin		 -- if we can get a clean shot --
abbott		-- inside the house? --
conklin		-- that's what they're trained for -- just a surgical strike.
abbott		Forget it.
conklin		What do you want to do?
abbott		We don't know what we're into!
conklin		We're in the shitter, man! Pick your poison. Maybe he's in there to finish the job. Maybe he's working for Wombosi. Maybe they want to go on TV together. Every possibility sucks -- we've got to move!
bourne		Is he here?
conklin		You don't have the stones for this. You people come down here and wink and whisper and we send these guys out and get it done. And you're clear. And the guys upstairs get what they want. And the whole bunch of you are so stuffed on deniability it's coming out of your ears.  Well, you know what? You're here now. What do you want to do?
wombosi		Come in.  Please...
wombosi		Did you bring investment advice for me tonight? It was tax shelters, wasn't it? Swiss debenture-swaps.
bourne		MPG Capital.
wombosi		I think investment advice from a dead man, it's a bad idea.  How does it feel to be dead?
bourne		It's a lot more stressful than I thought.
wombosi		-- no -- no, let them in! -- let them in.  I think everyone wants to see the dead man.
wombosi		What do you do?  -- you put this in my engine room!
wombosi		So this is a different kind of meeting.  Maybe now we talk some truth, okay? One dead man to another.
wombosi		You see this?  I told you my shot was better!
deauvage		He went in the water -- how did he live?
wombosi		No, no no...  It's bloody fucking amazing.
bourne		Who do you think sent me?
wombosi		I know who sent you. I don't know why.  Was the bomb on my boat supposed to go off or not?
wombosi		You didn't set the bomb. Why?
wombosi		Was this a game or a fuck up?
bourne		I don't know.
wombosi		Get the kids out!
wombosi		And the door.
conklin		-- code him again -- punch it in --
conklin		-- the paging unit must be damaged --
abbott		What are you doing?
conklin		I'm going to Paris.
abbott		No you're not. You're not going anywhere. I'm shutting this down.
conklin		You're not doing shit. You're so scared you can't even think.
abbott		You just blew up a house in Paris! This program is over. Call it off.
conklin		I can't call it off. He's not responding. Get out of my way.
marie		It doesn't matter who you were before. It's who you want to be. That's all that matters.  I say we leave here. We leave this place. We go until we can't go anymore.
bourne		You could do that?
marie		Yes. That's who I want to be.
clerk		xxxxxx...
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		xxxxxx.
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		Stop where you are.
marie		What?
bourne		Where's the dog?
clerk		My husband's out looking for him.
bourne		He run away often?
clerk		That old beast? Miss his breakfast? Not a chance.  It's always something, right?
bourne		Get in the basement.
clerk		What?
bourne		 Get everyone down in the basement.
clerk		What the hell're you talking about?
bourne		You're in danger. All of you. I have no time to explain.
clerk		Wait a minute --
bourne		I'm sorry.
marie		Jason...
marie		Who is it? Who's out there?
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		I won't let that happen.
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		Go!
marie		Did we lose them?
marie		Who is it?
bourne		We have to keep moving.
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
marie		What are you doing?
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		Give me the gun --
bourne		Wait 'till he's close.
marie		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		xxxxxx
marie		xxxxxx
bourne		xxxxxx
bourne		Who else is coming?
bourne		I won't ask again.
professor		I work alone. Like you...  ...we always work alone.
bourne		What do you mean?
professor		Who are you? Rome? Paris?  Treadstone... both of us... I was warned but...
bourne		Treadstone?
professor		...which one are you?...
bourne		Paris. I live in Paris...
professor		...headaches... you have that... I get such bad headaches...
bourne		Yes.
professor		...it's a problem...
bourne		Treadstone.
professor		...or in a car... when it's dark... something with the headlights...  ...pills, right? Treadstone had those pills...
bourne		What is Treadstone?
professor		...what did you do?... you must've really fucked up...
bourne		I think so.
professor		...someone said caffeine -- for a headache... doesn't seem...
bourne		What do they want me to do?
professor		...they won't let you go...
bourne		Why?
professor		Look at this...  ...least you have a woman....
marie		Jason...
marie		We've got to go.
bourne		Take this.
bourne		Take it.
marie		And that's it?
bourne		If you're lucky.  Take it.
marie		What was I thinking, right?
bourne		I can't protect you anymore.
marie		What about you?
bourne		I'm gonna find the end of this.  I can't protect you.
bourne		What did you do to me?
conklin		What did I do? What've you done? Do you have any idea? Any conception? What you've destroyed? Do you have any idea how much time and work -- how many people have their lives wrapped up in this?
bourne		Are you Treadstone?
conklin		Am I Treadstone? Me?  What the hell're you talking about?
bourne		What did you do to me?
conklin		What did I do? I spent thirty million dollars on you. I spent three years finding you -- four years training you --  What in the name of God have you been doing, Jason?
bourne		I don't know.
conklin		They're right about you, aren't they? You're fried.  You really don't know what's going on, do you?
bourne		I know you've been trying to kill me.
conklin		Of course. We had to try. We didn't know what was wrong.  We didn't know you were in trouble.
bourne		So now you know.
conklin		So it's time to go home.
bourne		That's all I get?
conklin		We'll make you better. We can put the pieces back. We can do that.
bourne		I don't think so.
conklin		We have to go home, Jason.
bourne		Jason Bourne is dead.
conklin		There never was a Jason Bourne.  You have to come with me. It's the only way. We can give it back to you...
bourne		Keep it. 
conklin		Jason...  They can't let you go...
bourne		That'll be their second worst mistake.
abbott		...We'd hoped it might build into a good training platform, but quite honestly, for a strictly theoretical exercise, we thought it was far too expensive. The cost-benefit ratio was just too high. It's been all but decommissioned at this point.
marshall		All right, what's next?
abbott		Okay, this is Blackbriar. Blackbriar is a joint, DOD, communications program that we really feel has good traction to it.
marie		Can I help you?
bourne		This your store?
marie		Yes.
bourne		Think I could rent a scooter?
marie		You have ID?
bourne		Not really.
marie		It's not a problem.
****Dialogues from script :Bourne_Supremacy.txt****

3		3    INT./EXT. COTTAGE LIVING ROOM/VERANDA -- NIGHT One minute later.       BOURNE moves out onto the veranda.
marie		Where were you, Jason?
bourne		In the car.         Conklin up front.
marie		I'll get the book.
bourne		No.    There's nothing new.
marie		You're sure?  We should still -- we should write it down.
bourne		Two years we're scribbling in a notebook --               *
marie		-- it hasn't been two years --                            *
bourne		-- it's alwa   ys bad and it's    never                   * anything but    bits and piece   s anyway!                *                                * You ever thi   nk that maybe i   t's just                 * making it wo   rse? You don't     wonder that?            *
marie		We write them down because sooner or                      * later you're going to remember something                  * good.                                                     *
bourne		 I do remember something good.       All the time. I remember you.
4		4   INT. COTTAGE BEDROOM -- NIGHT MARIE getting BOURNE into the bed. Turning down the light. Getting him settled. Waiting for that pill to kick in. What would he do without her?
bourne		I'm trying, Marie, Okay?
marie		I worry when you get like this.
bourne		It's just a nightmare.
marie		I don't mean that.   I worry when you try to ignore it.
bourne		I should be better by now.
marie		You are better. And I think it's not memories at all. It's just a dream you keep having over and over.
bourne		But it ends up the same.
marie		One day it will be different. It just takes time.  We'll make new memories. You and me.
5		5   EXT. BEACH -- GOA/BEACHTOWN -- DAY BOU   RNE running in the sun. A punishing pace along the san   d. Moving strong. Effortless. Deep into it. Focused. The    stunning conjunction of sun and scenery are lost on him   .
back to		BOURNE slowing as he reaches the corner --
kirill		She's my sister. There's been a death in the family. This is the last place we know she called from.
bourne		We gotta go, Marie.       We gotta go, now.
bourne		We're blown.
marie		No...     How?
bourne		The Telegraph office.
marie		But we were so careful.
bourne		We pushed it. We got lazy.                                 *
marie		But you're sure?
bourne		He was at the campground yesterday.
marie		So...                                                  *
bourne		It's wrong. Guy with a rental car and                  * hundred dollar sneakers sleeps in a tent?
marie		That's crazy.                                          *
bourne		No.  Not thi   s. This is real.                        * 
marie		Where --
bourne		Back there -- at the corner -- Hyundai --              * silver --                                              *
bourne		-- not yet --
marie		-- it's just him? --
bourne		-- yeah -- one guy -- I don't think he was ready --
marie		-- hang on --
b34		B34   EXT. LOW WALL -- DAY KIRILL.   Eye to the scope.                                      *
scope pov		The surface of the water.          Unbroken.
kirill		 Scans his perimeter. There's the old woman again. But more people with her. People coming out of the woodwork.  KIRILL checks the surface one last time.   Nothing.  He breaks down the rifle in moments -- goes.                       *
cronin		What have you got, Survey One?
72		72   INT. NEARBY BERLIN OFFICE -- NIGHT  Dark. TEDDY at the window. Another military face. Radio rig. Night Scope. Watching VIC and MIKE pass below him --
cronin		"All teams -- listen up -- we are standing- by for final green." 
76		76   INT. CIA SITUATION ROOM/LANGLEY, VIRGINIA -- DAY THREE MEN -- CIA MANDARINS -- sit around a round table. MARTIN MARSHALL, Deputy Vice-Director, he's in charge.                     * All is tense.                                                              *
marshall		It's a lot of money, Pam.
pamela		We're talking raw, unprocessed KGB files.                     * It's not something we can go out and                          * comparison shop.                                              *
77   *		77   DELETED
ivan		Show me.
vic		Here?
ivan		 Now.      Show now.
vic		This is everything?
ivan		Is there.     Is all there.
vic		-- what the hell is that? -- alone -- you said alone --
vic		 -- shut up! -- just shut the --
85		85   INT. BERLIN HQ/COMMAND POST -- NIGHT As they were.       Waiting.     But only a moment before --
cronin		"-- repeat -- who is dark? -- the target building or your location? --"
pamela		We need to get in there.
cronin		I'm working on it.
91-92a		91-92A   DELETED
a93		A93      INT. SHACK -- GOA -- DAY BOURNE is bailing.
cronin		-- so there        were two of the   se explosive charges plac       ed on the power    lines. One of              * them failed.         The fingerpri   nt...                       *  That's from        the one that di   dn't go off.
pamela		And the Germans can't match it?
teddy		Nobody's got it. We checked every database we could access. Nothing.
cronin		Show her the other thing.
teddy		This is a KG       B file that must've fallen somehow and        then slipped under, I guess, a desk there,        or... 
pamela		Do we know what this says?
teddy		Yup...  The main word there, the file heading, translates as: Treadstone.
pamela		What the hell is a "Treadstone?"
treadstone		PAMELA/PHONE  Ward?
pamela		Treadstone.
abbott		Never heard of it.
pamela		That's not gonna fly.
abbott		With all due respect, Pam, I think you might've wandered a little past your pay- grade.
pamela		Tha    t's a warrant from Director Marshall gra    nting me unrestricted access to all per    sonnel and materials associated with Tre    adstone.
abbott		And what are we looking for?
pamela		I want to know about Treadstone.
abbott		To know abou       t it? 
pamela		 He does. I've been down to the archives. I have the files, Ward.
naples		FERRY -- BOURNE at the rail. Unchanged from India. Staring ahead as Europe looms.
pamela		Let's talk about Conklin.
abbott		What are you after, Pam? You want to fry me? You want my desk? Is that it?
pamela		I want to know what happened.
abbott		d? Jason Bourn    e happened. What happene 
pamela		So you had Conklin killed.  I mean, if we're cutting the crap...
abbott		I've given t      hirty years and    two marri   ages to this agen      cy. I've shove    led shit o   n             * four contine      nts. I'm due t    o retire n   ext year and bel      ieve me, I need    my pensio   n, but if you t      hink I'm gonna    sit here a   nd let you dang      le me with this   , you can    go to hell. Marsh       all too.  It had to be       done.
pamela		And Bourne?        Where's he now?
abbott		 Dead in a ditch? Drunk in a bar in Mogadishu? Who knows?
pamela		It hink I do      . We had a dea    l going down in Berlin la      st week. Durin    g the buy, both our Fie      ld Agent and th   e seller were killed. We        pulled a finger   print from a               * timing charg      e that didn't g   o off.  They were ki      lled by Jason Bourne.
cronin		 They're ready for us upstairs.
109-114		109-114   DELETED
117		117    INT. FERRY BUILDING CUSTOMS HALL -- SUNSET Looking up from his computer, the IMMIGRATION OFFICER gestures BOURNE to one side.
immigration officer		                                  *
immigration officer		                                        *
abbott		Do you know what his budget was?                        *
pamela		Excuse me.
abbott		We were throwing money at him. Throwing                 * it at him and asking him to keep it dark.               *
pamela		May I finish?                                           *
abbott		Conklin migh   t've been a nut   , but he               * wasn't a mol   e. You have me     his calendar          * for a couple    of days, I'll    prove he               * killed Linco   ln.                                      *  This is supp   osed to be defi   nitive?
pamela		What's definitive, is that I just lost two people in Berlin!
abbott		So what's yo   ur theory?  The man is d   ead.
marshall		 No one's disputing that, Ward.
abbott		For crissake, Marty, you knew Conklin. Does this scan? I mean, at all?
marshall		Okay, cut to the chase, Pam.       What are you selling?
pamela		I think that Bourne and Conklin were in business. That Bourne is still involved.                * 
nevins		...what can    I do? I can't. I'll call you when I know    what I'm into...  So start wit   hout me, if I can get there, I will. Later    ...
nevins		Alright, Mr.    Bourne, is that your name?  Name's Nevin   s. I'm with the US Consulate. Could I see    your passport?
nevins		 Yes...
127		127       INT. FERRY/SECURITY HOLDING ROOM -- NIGHT NEVINS stirring, the CARABINIERI still out. A phone starts to RING. Nevins' phone. Finally sitting up, he answers.
nevins		Hello?
cronin		So your cover at the time was what?
nicky		That I was an American student in Paris.
cronin		What exactly did your job with Treadstone in Paris consist of?
nicky		Ih    ad two re   sponsibilities. One was     to coo   rdinate l   ogistical operations. Th    e oth   er was to    monitor the health of th   e age   nts, to m   ake sure they were up to    date wit   h their m   edications.
cronin		Health, meaning what?
nicky		Their mental health.       Because of what they'd been through.       They were prone to a variety of problems.
pamela		                                    * What kind of problems?
nicky		Depression. Anger. Compulsive behaviors. They had physical symptoms -- headaches -- sensitivity to light --
nicky		Before this?        Before Bourne?   No.
abbott		Were you familiar with the training program?
nicky		The details? No. I mean,         I was told it was voluntary. I don't kno       w if that's true or not, but that's wha      t I was told.  Look, they took vulnerable       subjects, okay? You mix that with th       e right pharmacology and some serio      us behavior modification, and, I don't       know, I mean, I guess anything's possible      .
nicky		Am I a doctor, no, but...
pamela		Are you an expert in amnesia?
nicky		Look, what do you want me to say? I was there. I believed him.
pamela		Believed what?
nicky		I believed Jason Bourne had suffered a severe traumatic breakdown.
pamela		So he fooled you.
nicky		 If you say so.                                       *
pamela		                           * Eve   r feel so   rry for him? For what he'd bee   n through   ?
nicky		You're making it out like we're friends here or something. I met him alone twice.
pamela		You felt nothing? No spark? Two young people in Paris? Dangerous missions? Life and death?
nicky		 You mean, did I want a date?
pamela		Did you?
nicky		These were killers. Conklin had them all jacked up. They were Dobermans.
pamela		Some women like Dobermans --
nicky		What do you want from me?       I was reassigned. I'm out.                                 *
pamela		See   , that's a problem for me, Nicky.              * Wha   tever he's doing, we need to end it.           * Thi   s isn't the kind of mess you walk away         * fro   m.                                             *
kim		--    so far Bourne's had no contact with              * any   one on the list -- Langley pulled an             * ima   ge out of Naples, it's uploading right now   .
kurt		Coming in now...
pamela		 Is it him?
cronin		He's not hiding, that's for sure.
zorn		Why Naples?     Why now?
kurt		Could be random.
cronin		Maybe he's running.
abbott		On his own passport?
kim		 What's he actually doing?
cronin		What's he doing? He's making his first mistake...
nicky		It's not a m   istake.                                           * If he's in N   aples, on his own passport,            * there's a re   ason.                                  *
142		142   EXT. ANONYMOUS MUNICH NEIGHBORHOOD -- DAY Discreet and chilly.           A car pulls up.    A MAN gets out.
munich		We don't see his face as he heads in.
bourne		I emptied it.
jarda		 Felt a little light.
bourne		Drop it.
jarda		 Sorry. Old habits.
bourne		You still should've moved.
jarda		I like it here. 
bourne		She wouldn't let me.  She's the only reason you're alive.
jarda		What do you want?
bourne		Conklin.
jarda		He's dead.
bourne		Try again.
jarda		Shot dead in Paris.       Dead the night you walked out.
jarda		Nobody. They shut it down. We're the last two. It's over... 
bourne		You're lying. If it's over, why are they after me?
jarda		I don't know.
bourne		Who sent you to Greece?
jarda		A voice. A voice from the States. Someone new.
bourne		Pamela Landy?
jarda		I don't know who that is.
bourne		What's going on in Berlin?
jarda		I don't know! Why would I lie?
bourne		I did.
jarda		I thought you were here to kill me.
bourne		What did you do?
jarda		I'm sorry.
bourne		How long? How long do I have -- 
bourne		-- car keys?
jarda		-- my coat -- but we should --
bourne		-- what? --
jarda		-- take the back -- get another car --
pamela		So he beats    a man within an inch of his             * life, strang   les him, then blows the place           * up?                                                    *  For someone    with amnesia, he certainly hasn't forgo   tten how to kill, has he?
cronin		-- hey! -- they've got him boxed in! -- 
zorn		Forget it.     They lost him.
teddy		What're you talking about?      They've got a three block perimeter.
zorn		You can't see him? He's not in front of you? Forget it. He's gone.
zorn		You better start listening to someone.                  * Cause we've been there.                                 *
nicky		 I don't think we need to keep looking for him anyway.
pamela		And why is that?
nicky		Because he's doing just what he said he'd               * do. He's coming for us.
165		165   EXT. HOTEL BRECKER -- BERLIN -- NIGHT -- RAIN It is pouring rain. Seen from that Hellish car, A HUGE, DISTINCTIVE, NEEDLE-LIKE TOWER dominates the skyline, lights flashing through the dark and wet --
conklin		Neski. Vladimir Neski...  Say it.
bourne		Neski.     Hotel Brecker.     Papers.                          *
conklin		This is not a drill, soldier. We're clear on that? This is a live project and you are go. Training is over.
bourne		Yes, sir.
conklin		Good, then g   imme the damn picture back.  Pull over, h   e's getting out.
pamela		Anything?
teddy		No.   Munich's a bust.   He's loose.                   *
his pov		As they pile out of the van, start inside. Acknowledged by a SECURITY DETAIL pretending to loiter outside. As we hear:
pamela		--     let's sta   y on the local    cops, we n   eed av     ehicle --    parking ticket    -- someth   ing -- Lan    gley's of   fered to upload    any satel   lite ima    ging we n   eed, so let's f   ind a targ   et to loo    k for. 
pamela		Is it fresh?
nicky		It's got caffeine in it.   That's all I know.
pamela		Pamela Landy.
pamela		Who is this?
pamela		 Bourne?
bourne		I want to come in.
pamela		Okay, how do you want to do it?                     *
bourne		I want someone I know to take me in.                *
pamela		Who?
bourne		There was a girl in Paris. Part of the program. She used to handle the medication.
pamela		What if we can't find her?
abbott		Call a Mayday into Berlin station. We need snipers, DOD, whatever they got.
pamela		Snipers?    Hold on -- he said he wants to                    * come in.
abbott		My    ass he do   es. You're pla    ying with fire, Pam   ela. Mar    shall said nail    him to the               * wal   l. I don    't know how you    interpreted              * tha   t, but I    don't think he    meant                     * rep   atriate h   im.                                         *
pamela		Don't you want answers?
abbott		There are no       answers. Ther    e's either Jason Bourne       alive or Jason    Bourne dead. And I for on      e would prefer    the latter. And what abo      ut her?  You just sen      d her out to th   is lunatic with no protectio      n?
pamela		What do you think?       Is he coming in?
nicky		I don't know. He was sick.           He wanted out. I believed him.                                          *
pamela		Alright...
pamela		Where's Nicky?
abbott		Goddamn it -- I told you.
cronin		Listen!   Listen!
bourne's voice		What did I say? What did I tell you in Paris?
bourne		What were my    words?  Leave me alo   ne! Leave me out of it! But you coul   dn't do that, could you?
nicky		I did...Jason, I swear, I did...I told them... I told them I believed you...
bourne		Who is Pamela Landy?
nicky		You hear me?     I believed you.
bourne		IS SHE RUNNING TREADSTONE?                            *
nicky's voice		She's CI. Counterintelligence. She's a Deputy Director.
bourne's voice		What the hell is she doing?
nicky		What's she doing?
bourne		Why is she trying to kill me?                             *
nicky		They know!  They know yo   u were here. T    hey know you killed these    two guys. The    y know you and Conklin had    something on th   e side. They don't know w   hat it is, but    they know!
t187		T187   INT. PEDESTRIAN SUBWAY -- DAY Still walking.   BOURNE knowing he must be driving them             * nuts.
bourne		How do they know that?      How can they know any of that?
nicky		What is this, a game?
bourne		I want to hear it from you.
nicky		Last week an Agency field officer went to make a buy from a Russian national.
bourne		A Russian?
nicky		It    was Pamela Landy's op. The guy was goi   ng to sell-out a mole or something. I hav   en't been debriefed on exactly what it was   .
nicky		And you got to him before we could.
bourne		I killed him???
nicky		You    left a p   rint! There was Kel that did   n't go of   f! There was a partial print, the   y tracked    it back to Treadstone! They kno   w it's yo   u!
bourne		I left a fingerprint!       You fucking                 * people.                                                 *
bourne		Why are you here, then?                              *
bourne		For Treadstone. In Berlin. You know my file. I did a job here. When?
nicky		No.   You never worked Berlin.
bourne		My first job.                                        *
nicky		Your first assignment was Geneva.
bourne		That's a lie!
nicky		 You never worked Berlin...
bourne		I was here!
nicky		...    it's not in the file...I swear...I kno    w your file...your first job was                             * Gen    eva!...I swear to God you never worked                       * her    e!...                                                        *
cronin		 Oka   y, they'v   e got three guys out front            * and    another    two taking the back stairs.           * No    word on N   icky.                                 *
pamela		So what's he doing?       You believe him?              *
zorn		 Sir...
abbott		Thanks.
abbott		 She say what time I should call?
zorn		The sooner the better.
e193		E193   INT. BERLIN CYBER CAFE -- NIGHT Massive.   Modern.   Busy.   BOURNE in the back.   In a corner.
zorn		 Id     id my box    work, but I wa   nted to sh   ow you     before I    showed Landy.     I came ou   t                 * her    e last ni   ght because non   e of this    was mak    ing any s   ense. I mean,     I'm with y   ou on thi    s, Conkli   n was a nut, bu   t a traito   r? I jus    t can't g   et there.
abbott		What do you have, Danny?
zorn		 You     put a fo   ur-gam Kel on h   ere and it's gon    na take o   ut power to the    building. You kno    w that.     What you can't    know, is if it'    s gonna b   low the room wi   th it.
abbott		And?
zorn		The   re were t   wo charges, they were supposed to    go off si   multaneously. The second one, the    one that    didn't go off, was down her   e...  Bou   rne would   know.
abbott		It was staged?
zorn		Is it a slam dunk?         No, but...
abbott		Jesus...
zorn		 Oka   y. What     if someone decided to cover the   ir tracks    by blaming Conklin and Bou   rne. Wha    t if Bourne didn't have any   thing to    do with this?
abbott		Keep going...
zorn		Something's been going on here in Europe. And it's still going on. Post Conklin. Who's been in Berlin?
abbott		Lots of people...
zorn		Including Landy...  She had access to the archives.
abbott		Who else knows about this?
zorn		Nobody. You.  I had to tell you, right?
abbott		Show me again...
zorn		Okay... 
clerk		Guten Abend.
bourne		 Guten Abend.
clerk		 Can I help you?
bourne		No.  Sorry.     I just got in...  I stayed the   re before. My wife and I.
clerk		I'm sorry, that room is occupied. Would room 644 be okay, it's just across the hall...
bourne		Sure.    That's fine.   Danka.
205		205   INT. ROOM #645 HOTEL BRECKER -- NIGHT BOURNE with his hand on the wall. As if he can feel it. Like it's all still here. Heart pounding and --
206		206   INT. BERLIN HQ/COMMAND POST -- NIGHT Chaos -- Bourne's been found -- everybody rushing out --
cronin		 -- go -- take the van! --
pamela		-- the hotel -- how far? --
teddy		-- five, six minutes --
cronin		-- Kurt -- you're here! -- keep the comm line open! --
swat captain		Cal    l all the    guests on the 6th floor. Tel    l them to    remain in their rooms. Tell the    m it's a    police order. Then start on the     5th and    8th floors.
b216		B216   INT. ROOM #645 -- NIGHT BOURNE backs away -- surveys the room -- his watch -- his balance and --
teddy		Black coat,    possibly leather. Dark slacks. Dar    k t-shirt.  He says they   're gonna try and corral the guests on th   e street over there, and then check them o   ut, but...
pamela		 Yeah, that'll work...What the hell was he doing here?
cronin		Maybe he just needed a place to spend the night?
pamela		I want to look at the room.                          *                          * Check it out.                                        *
abbott		 They missed him?
abbott		He let her go? Great. Where's Danny?                 * He should head over there and debrief                * her.                                                 *                                     * What's here? What was he doing?                      *
teddy		We don't know. They're in a room upstairs. I was told to wait down here.
abbott		OK, if you see Danny tell him I went back             * to the hotel.                                         *  ABBOTT steps out into the street as...
abbott		You told me Bourne was dead.
gretkov		There was a mistake.
abbott		I'l   l say. You killed his goddam                             * gir   lfriend instead. Now they're onto                        * Nes   ki. They're at the Brecker Hotel even                    * as    we speak.                                                *
gretkov		Will it track back to us?                                      *
abbott		No. The files are spotless. Whatever                           * they find, it's just going to make Conklin                     * look worse.                                                    *
gretkov		And the Landy woman?                                           *
abbott		She's done everything I wanted. She bit                        * on Conklin so fast it was laughable. She                       * even found his bogus Swiss account...                          *
abbott		                                        * The   re's a bo   dy in the basem   ent. Dann    y Zor   n. He's     got to disappea   r. For go    od. Cle   an and fa   st. I'll put h    im in bed    with Con   klin and    Bourne. Even t    he girl, N   icky.         * Giv   e me twen   ty-four hours,    I'll think    it up.     But get    the goddamn bo   dy out of the   re.
gretkov		One last push. One.
248   *		248    INT. LOBBY -- HOTEL BRECKER -- NIGHT As PAMELA and CRONIN exit the elevator, they are met by            * TEDDY.                                                             *
teddy		Here's what    I've got.  Remember Vla   dimir Neski? R    ussian                  * politician?     Seven years ag   o, he was due           * to speak to    a group of Euro   pean Oil                * ministers he   re at the hotel   . He never              * did. He was     murdered.                                *
teddy		His wife. In room 645. Then she shot                     * herself.                                                 *                               * -- they have to be related.                              *
pamela		Are we hacking or asking?
pamela		And what about you, anything?                                *
cronin		It's starting to link up -- the hijacked                     * money -- the leak -- Pecos Oil -- one                        * last bit is Treadstone.                                      *
260		260   INT. MOSCOW TRAIN/PASSENGER CAR -- DAWN BOURNE -- asleep in his chair -- rocked by the rhythm.           But something wakes him up.
bourne		Hey...
marie		You do?
bourne		I only dream about people who are dead.
marie		                             * Jason. You know exactly what to do.     That         * is your mission now.                                 *
261-262    *		261-262   DELETED
pamela		Sorry to wake you.
abbott		                              * You OK?                                                    *
pamela		Bunch of stuff.
pamela		There's something else.
abbott		What?
pamela		They found Danny Zorn's body. Dead in the basement at the building where my people got hit the first time.
abbott		Oh, God...   It must have been Bourne.             *
pamela		Did he say anything to you?
abbott		No... It must have been Bourne.
pamela		We'll know for sure when we get the                * security tapes.                                    *
abbott		Moscow? What the Hell's he going to Moscow for?
pamela		 Don't know.
abbott		Jesus... I, Zorn... I have to call his family. Tell them...
pamela		I'm sorry, Ward.
gretkov		Da...
gretkov		 This is not a clean phone.
267   *		267   INT. WESTIN GRAND HOTEL LOBBY -- DAWN Everyone still here. CRONIN answering his cell phone --           * motioning to them, he's got news --
cronin		 You're sure?
pamela		What?   The tapes?                                      *
cronin		 Yep. And Ab    bott just direct dialed Moscow           * from his roo   m...
gretkov		Leaving was a business decision.     We're both rich, come enjoy it.
abbott		What do you mean?
gretkov		Go to the airport. Get a plane. I'll have a brass band waiting for you.
abbott		Save it for Bourne.
gretkov		What?
abbott		He left yest   erday on the night train. He's probabl   y just getting in now.  You'll have    to hurry.
gretkov		Bourne comes here? Why?
abbott		Good luck.
pamela		Open it.
abbott		They go.    You stay.
pamela		Yes.    Now...
abbott		Sit down.
pamela		I'd rather stand if it's all the same to you.
abbott		I don't exactly know what to say -- I'm sorry.
pamela		'Why' would be enough for me.
abbott		I'm not a traitor.        I've served my                * country.                                                *
pamela		And pocketed a fair amount of change while              * doing it.                                               *
abbott		Why not?    It was just money.                          *
pamela		And Danny Zorn, what was that?                            *
abbott		Had to be done.                                           *
275		275   INT. MOSCOW TAXI -- DAY BOURNE and THE TAXI DRIVER looking over as THREE MOSCOW POLICE CARS speed by -- SIRENS WAILING --
bourne		You wait.   You understand?   Stay.
taxi driver		 Sure. No problem. I sit.
285		285   INT. MOSCOW TAXI -- DAY THE TAXI DRIVER on the phone -- not so happy anymore --
bourne		Wait!   Hey!
294		294   DELETED 
bourne		Sit.  Can yo   u... 
irena		 I speak English.
bourne		Please...
irena		 Okay.
bourne		It's nice.                                                 * Hmm?                                                             *
irena		It's nothing. It's just a picture.
bourne		No. It's because you don't know how they died.
irena		 No, I do.                                                        *
bourne		I would want        to know.  I would want        to know that my mother didn't kill my fath       er. I would want to know that        she didn't kill herself.
irena		What?
bourne		I would grow up thinking that they didn't love me if they just left me like that.
irena		 Yes...
bourne		That's not what happened to your parents.
irena		Then what?
bourne		I killed them.
irena		You killed them.
bourne		They loved you.  And I killed them.
irena		For who?                                              *  KILLED FOR WHO?
bourne		It doesn't matter.     Your life is hard enough.
irena		You're a liar.
bourne		You know I'm not.
irena		YOU'RE A LIAR!
bourne		Look at me.
irena		I should kill you...if it's true you should die...I should kill you now!
bourne		I can't let you do that either.                       *
irena		Because you're afraid!
bourne		No.  Because you don't want to know how it feels.
bourne		Where am I?
pamela		Ramstein Air    Base, Germany.                          *  Before the w   all fell you would have woken up in a Russ   ian prison hospital.
bourne		Oh, shit...
pamela		Careful...                                              *
bourne		Why am I alive?
pamela		Are you disappointed?
bourne		I know who you are.
pamela		Thank you for your gift.    I'm sorry about Marie.    *
bourne		Don't need it. I remember everything. PAMELA  Sounds like a threat.
bourne		You didn't answer my question.
pamela		Why you're a   live?  Because we w   ant you back on our side.
nicky		 So?
pamela		Felt promising. It's a start.                       *
359		359   INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY Empty bed.   Open window.     Bourne is gone.
****Dialogues from script :Bourne_Ultimatum.txt****

final shooting script		June 20, 2007
bourne		 Give me your gun and radio.
bourne		 My argument is not with you.  BOURNE smashes the radio and takes the gun.  BOURNE exits...
black screen		 A TITLE fades in --  THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM SUPER:    Six Weeks Later
cronin		We think that's Bourne hitting him on the head and then--
kramer		Who's "she?"
landy		His girlfriend, Marie. She was killed in India three weeks ago.
kramer		A dirty section chief in league with a corrupt Russian Billionaire commits suicide when confronted by Jason Bourne. You couldn't make this stuff up.  You watched this happen?
kramer		Bourne's last confirmed location is Moscow, three days ago?
landy		Right.
kramer		So what does he do now?
landy		I think he's looking for something he hasn't found.
kramer		Like what?     What's he after?
landy		I'm not sure. Maybe he hasn't gotten his memory back yet.  Not all of it.
kramer		Pam, what I need to know is, what kind of a threat is he to us?
landy		If he just wanted to hurt us he could have sent this tape to CNN.
kramer		Maybe he still will. Maybe he gave it to you because he wants to throw you in the opposite direction of his real plan. I don't know. I just know my number one rule is "the only way to stay safe is to assume the worst."   As far as I'm concerned Bourne is a serious threat until proven otherwise.
ross		 What connects the dots? Is it Treadstone?
daniels		Turn off that tape recorder.
martin		Where is my sister?
bourne		She's dead. She was killed.
martin		I knew it was going to end this way. It was always going to end this way...
bourne		I didn't believe that.
martin		Why did she die?
bourne		She was shot. A man came for me.
martin		And then you killed him.
martin		Now what?
bourne		Someone started all this...and I'm going to find them.
bourne		 Who started Treadstone?
ellatrache		 They're still looking for you. You are taking a big risk coming here.
bourne		 Just tell me what I want to know!
ellatrache		 I just provided them weapons.    I don't know who started--
bourne		 You know something.   Tell me where to start looking.
ellatrache		 There's a journalist in London. Simon Ross. He seems to know a lot about you.   He has a source inside the program. Someone there from the beginning. What should I tell them if they contact me?
bourne		 They give me the name I want, or I burn their entire house down to get it.
ross		...This is big -- a skein of lies -- you pull at it and it just keeps coming -- I'll fill you in when I get home. And it's not finished, either.  They're calling it `Blackbriar'.  Follow this SEQUENCE as...
supervisor		Okay, send it to CRI right now.
wills		We tracked the phone. Registered to a London reporter named Simon Ross. He works at the Guardian newspaper.
vosen		You tracking him?
wills		Yeah, thanks Mike. We have a survey team covering him at work...and a sneak and peek's on their way to his apartment.
vosen		Well, who talked to him? How did he find out about Blackbriar?
wills		We don't know, we pulled his background and ran a cross check on any known anomalies, but we've come up with nothing. But, I think if we follow Ross, we are going to be able...
vosen		Right. Ross is easy. I want the source.
vosen		Is that all?
wills		Yeah.
vosen		I want rendition protocols and I want the asset put on standby, just in case.
vosen		People, listen up, this is a full priority situation
wills		Jimmy, give me Ross's profile on one. 
vosen		Our target is a British national, Simon Ross, a reporter. I want all his phones, his blackberry, his apartment, his car, bank accounts, credit cards, travel patterns...I want to know what he's going to think before he does. Every dirty little secret he has. And most of all, we want the name and real time location of his source.
vosen		Where's my picture please?
vosen		That's too long.
editor		So how do we know he's not spinning for someone?
ross		There's more. He was scared.
editor		Scared of what?
ross		Blackbriar.
reporter		Sorry, a call for you.
ross		Who is it?
reporter		Won't give hie name.
reporter		He's on my line...
vosen		Why aren't we hearing this?
wills		That's a hard line, Jimmy, why don't we have it?
jimmy		We have his line, sir, but he's not on it.
ross		Who is this?  BOURNE  This is Jason Bourne.
wills		Okay, he is on the move.   Target is mobile.
wills		Okay, people, look sharp, give me eyeballs on the street.
survey one		Subject is on the move. Go mobile One and Two.
wills		Where's that audio on the street? I want to know where he's going...
mobile 2		 We have the subject confirmed.
vosen		Where is he heading?
mobile 2		Waterloo Station.
ross		Hello?  BOURNE  Don't ask questions. Just listen...
vosen		What's he doing? I thought we blocked his cell? Who the hell is he talking to???
wills		Jimmy, I need that phone!
vosen		 Activate the asset.
wills		Sir, we haven't yet become operational --
vosen		I said activate the asset.   I want options.
survey two		What's the ROE on this one?  PANNING TO REVEAL
wills		Okay, who's the guy in the blue hood?
vosen		Okay, there, he's talking to the guy with the hood. Take them down.
vosen		Watch that bus! The bus! -- don't lose them! Stay triangular and don't get blocked.
bourne		Take the footbridge. Go to the West Entrance. I'll meet you at the newsstand.
vosen		No, no, look...Ross is not on the bus.   Split up the team -- get the guy on the bus and send someone to stay on Ross.
agent one		 You. On the floor. Down.
agent two		Driver, stop the bus!
vosen		I don't like this. Patch me through to Met surveillance.
bourne		Why do you know so much about me?
ross		What?
bourne		The article. You talked to someone from Treadstone. Someone there at the beginning.  What's his name?
ross		I can't tell you that.... Who's following me?
bourne		Whoever they are it's trouble.
ross		Are they Blackbriar?
bourne		Blackbriar, what's Blackbriar?
ross		I don't know. I heard the name this morning for the first time. Whatever it is, my source said it started with you.
bourne		What? What are you talking about?
ross		Look, just help me get away from these people...and we can talk more...we can--
bourne		 We have to move.
bourne		Answer your phone.
vosen		He's got to be close. Seal the entrances.
ross		Has she seen me?
bourne		Not yet. Dip left past the photo kiosk.
ross		Are we clear?
bourne		Clear. News kiosk. Straight ahead.
ross		Straight toward me.     Bin man?
bourne		Negative.
ross		He's got a gun.
bourne		Negative.    Keep straight ahead.
vosen		We're losing him! We cannot afford to lose him!
voice		Waterloo concourse. Subject heading east.
bourne		Get into cover. Now!
vosen		64H             What's the status of the asset?                     64H
wills		In place in one minute.
vosen		Alright, I want to take him now. Get him out of there and have the asset cover it.
voice		Target moving towards the stores.
another voice		Asset in play. ETA thirty seconds. All exits covered.
bourne		Keep moving...
bourne		INSIDE!
bourne		Service doorway -- Now!
techy 2		Store.   Three means of egress.
vosen		Close him down...
bourne		Keep moving.
vosen		Jesus Christ, that's Jason Bourne.
wills		Maybe he's the source?
vosen		It doesn't matter, the asset now has 2 targets. Take them both out.
bourne		I'm going to get you to safety but you have to stay calm do exactly what I say.
ross		 Sure, okay.
bourne		No, listen to me: Exactly what I say this time. Understand?
ross		Yes.
bourne		Stay here while I look for an escape.
bourne		No, stay behind that door.
wills		There. That silver door. Bourne's behind that door?
tech		Confirmed.
wills		Okay, pull the agents back and give Bourne's location to the asset.
scope pov		 The door comes open slightly, but from this angle Paz doesn't have a clean shot at his target .
bourne		Don't move until I tell you.
ross		I'm going to go for it.
bourne		No, No not now.
vosen		Oh...shit...
wills		What about Bourne?
vosen		Get him out of there - NOW!
kramer		Hello.
vosen		It's Vosen. We have a situation.
vosen		 Sparkling. And a "Heart-Healthy" omelet with goat cheese and peppers.
vosen		You're late. Traffic?
waiter		 Ma'am?
landy		Nothing for me.
vosen		I'm buying.
vosen		When the Director called, it was suggested we bring you on--
landy		Suggested?  Are you sure it was just a suggestion?
vosen		Funny how different things look depending on where you sit. I look at this as doing a favor for you. Giving you an opportunity to complete some unfinished business.
landy		Meaning?
vosen		Jason Bourne.
landy		Bourne's finished.
vosen		Really?
landy		It was finished the moment I realized I was chasing him for something he didn't do.   The case is closed.
vosen		So what do you make of this?  French intel picked up Bourne meeting Pierre Elattrache on Tuesday. He threatened to burn our house down if you didn't tell him who started Treadstone. That's a big problem, wouldn't you agree?
landy		This doesn't feel like Bourne to me.
vosen		Why's it so hard for you to believe?
landy		Probably because it's coming from you, Noah.
vosen		Lets try and be adults okay? We all thought he was done, off the grid. But Bourne's back. Maybe he's a threat. We both want the same thing here.
landy		So what happened at Waterloo?
vosen		We have a leak. Bourne showed up in our surveillance. We had very little time to react.
landy		And the reporter ended up dead?
vosen		Bourne saw us coming.
landy		So what was he doing?
landy		The real question is how you managed to get in a fire fight in the middle of a public train station.
vosen		Don't second guess an operation from an armchair, Pam. It's not fair.
landy		I'm going to the office now. I'll make my own introductions.
wills		This is Pamela Landy. She's gonna be quarterbacking our search effort. I think what we oughta do, just to get started, let's go around the room, say who you are and what your spec is.
landy		Let's do names later.  Anybody.
landy		Status?   Wounded?   Armed?
landy		Where are your grids coming from?
landy		You have an Echelon package?
landy		Why isn't it on?
landy		For what?  That would mean now.
landy		I think we can be pretty certain that Bourne's not your source then?
vosen		How?
landy		Ross's call to his editor, where he said he just met the source on Blackbriar, took place just after his flight landed. His met his source in Turin.
vosen		So?
landy		So, what, Bourne met Ross for breakfast and then, at noon the same day Bourne calls Ross to demand a meet at Waterloo?
cronin		 Maybe they were even on the same flight?
vosen		Cross check the secure cell phone usage of everyone with Blackbriar SCI clearance against all calls in and out of Turin during the morning Ross was there
landy		The guy you're after is a CIA operative with clearance above Top Secret.   He was committing treason by talking to Ross.   Do you really think, while doing that, he used a cell phone he knows we can track?
wills		Do you have a better idea?
landy		Yeah, I'd look at all the people whose cell phones were switched off the entire period Ross was in Turin.
wills		Do it Jimmy.
landy		 I mean if your people use their cell phones as much as mine do, the list should be pretty small
landy		Now check everything in Ross's apartment against those names. Look for common patterns, look for -
cronin		Initials .....Bring that up on main.
landy		Neal Daniels.   He's Station Chief in Madrid now, isn't he?
wills		Jesus Christ.
vosen		Call the RSO at the Embassy and have them take Daniels into custody if he's there.   If he's not, get a grab team to the Calle Norte safe house. Send them in heavy and tell them we'll assist with entry.
landy		"Heavy?" Daniels isn't--
vosen		I'm worried about Bourne. If he's not Ross's source, then he must be after Ross's source -- just like us.
vosen		Team two, ETA Callee Norte?
hammond		We're in.
vosen		Okay, put it live.
hammond		Alarm's down.
vosen		That has to be Bourne.
hammond		 Safe's cleaned out.
vosen		Shit...    Track the passports.
vosen		Goddamn it! Get a back-up team in there!
vosen		How long till back-up arrives?
vosen		How long?  Stop! Hang on. I have an idea...
bourne		What are you doing here?
nicky		I was posted here after Berlin.
bourne		Where's Daniels?
vosen		Who is this?
vosen		Nicky, I need to do an ID challenge first. Code in: "Sparrow."
nicky		Response: "Everest".
vosen		Nicky, this is Noah Vosen. How long have you been on site?
vosen		We have two officers on site. Are you in contact with them?
vosen		Is there any sign of Daniels?
landy		Nicky, this is Pam Landy. We have reason to believe there is a connection between Neal Daniels and Jason Bourne.
landy		No, some people are convinced he's still a threat. I disagree but to find out I need to talk to him.
vosen		Hold on Nicky.
vosen		What are you doing? You know Bourne's probably listening.
vosen		How long till back up arrives.
nicky		Okay.
nicky		They know you're here.
bourne		How long do I have?
nicky		Three minutes...
delta dude		2 minutes to safehouse.
nicky		My car's outside.    I know where Daniels is.
vosen		You "disagree" he's a threat? He just took out two more of my men. Not to mention his ultimatum to Ellatrache?
landy		The only way this has a happy ending, Noah, is if we find a way to bring Bourne in voluntarily.
vosen		He wants revenge, Pam. The only realistic way to deal with this is to eliminate the threat.
bourne		Okay, where is Daniels headed?
nicky		8 o'clock this morning, he wired $100,000. to a numbered bank account in Tangier.
bourne		Okay, Tangier is about 300 miles away, we can make the morning ferry.
nicky		And then what?
nicky		They're coming.
spanish police		Manos Arriba! Manos Arriba!
vosen		Issue a standing kill order on Jason Bourne, effective immediately.
vosen		We lost Bourne.
kramer		You still think he's after Daniels?
vosen		Yeah. Nicky's just the means. But if we find Daniels, we'll find Bourne.
kramer		Daniels knows way too much. Daniels knows everything. We can't let them meet.
vosen		I'll take care of it.
kramer		Good.  And fill Hirsch in.     Just in case.
nicky		What are you after, Jason?   Why are you looking for Daniels?
bourne		Do you know who this is?
nicky		That's Daniels.  I don't know who that is.
bourne		I have to get back to the beginning...or I'll never be free of this.
nicky		Who is he?
bourne		I think he started Treadstone.    I remember meeting him.   I remember the first day...  Daniels brought me to him.
nicky		What happened?
bourne		An initiation...I guess...
nicky		Jason...that wasn't some one-off initiation. Daniels said they did that to you over and over again.   That's how they...
bourne		Why are you helping me?
nicky		It was difficult for me...with you.
bourne		No.
vosen		 Noah Vosen.
cronin		They tracked Daniels' passport to a hotel in Tangier. They're holding up a bank transfer he made to keep him in place while they move an asset in from Casablanca.
landy		Since when do you have authorization for lethal action against Daniels?
vosen		Since he cleaned out a Blackbriar safe and fled to Morocco!
landy		So grab him--
vosen		I don't have the people on the ground to do that and I'm not going to risk that file falling into the wrong hands.
landy		What's going on?    What's Daniels got?
vosen		What's he got? He ran all of Blackbriar's operations in Southern Europe and North Africa.
landy		I think the world's well aware we have a rendition and lethal action capability at this point, Noah.
vosen		For Christ's sake, Pam, he's got our entire playbook. Names, dates, ghost sites, how we train our assets.....
landy		You still don't have the authority to kill him.
vosen		Oh, yes I do, Pam.
vosen		That's what makes us special. No red tape. No more getting badguys in our sights and then watching them escape while we wait for some bureaucrat to issue the order.
landy		You just decide? No oversight. No checks and balances.
vosen		Come on, Pam, you've seen the raw intel. You know how real the threat is.    We can't afford to have our hands tied like that anymore.
landy		It's Pamela Landy for him. Would you tell him it's urgent?
kramer		Tell her I'm unreachable.
vosen		Give me the subject's location.
vosen		Get an elevation and a floor plan, tic-tac-toe. Locate the room. Give the asset Daniels's location and the route between Daniel's hotel and the bank.
vosen		Do we have that room yet?
vosen		Get the hotel's trunk line. Run all calls through here with an iso on 117  TIGHT ON COMPUTER MONITOR: DESH'S ICON STOPS MOVING.
tech		Sir, the asset is acquiring the materials.
nicky		His location's being blocked.
bourne		Now they found Daniels, do you know where he is?
nicky		They'll get one of the operatives to terminate him.
bourne		Find out who.
bourne		Tell him you're going to meet him and that you have a new phone for him.
nicky		If you stop Desh they'll just get someone else.
bourne		We're not going to stop him. We're going to follow him. He'll take us right to Daniels.
vosen		Find out why.
tech		Sir, the asset is on the move, in route to subject.
wills		Sir, we have an unauthorized breach. Someone with active system knowledge has penetrated out protocols. Information was passed to the asset at 14.11.  The trace is confirmed and valid. It comes from a computer belonging to Nicky Parsons.
vosen		Where did the course deviation occur?
vosen		That's where Parson's is.
vosen		When we're finished with Daniels send the asset after her. We find Parsons, we find Bourne.
vosen		Not now.
landy		Now.   I want to know what's going on.
vosen		Not now.
landy		I'm asking on what basis you're continuing this operation.
vosen		On the basis that Nicky Parsons has compromised a covert operation. She is up to her neck in it.
landy		This is about Daniels, not Nicky!
vosen		She has betrayed us!
landy		You don't know the circumstances!
vosen		She's in league with Jason Bourne for Chrissake!
landy		You don't have the authority to kill her or Bourne!
vosen		Yes, I do Pam, it's right here and it's legal.
landy		She's one of our own.   You start down this path...where does it end?!
vosen		It ends when we've won.
vosen		Notify the asset of the additional target.
bryan		Yes, sir.
vosen		Have the bank release the funds.
bourne		Alright, we need to be dead.    You need to code that in.
vosen		I want to be sure. Have the station chief in Rabat confirm the deaths and do a sub-rosa check...And keep and eye on Landy.
cronin		The hub just got word Bourne and Nicky are dead.
landy		Confirmed?
cronin		Not yet.
landy		Get me a copy of Bourne's personnel file.
bourne		I can see all their faces. But I can't remember any names....
bourne		I was starting to remember who they were...in India...with Marie.
nicky		It's just going to lead to more killing, Jason. Are you sure you want that?
bourne		I've killed people and I've tried to apologize for what I've done, for what I am. None of it makes it better...
bourne		They're going to come for you again. You are going to have to run now.
bourne		It gets easier.
wills		Station chief in Rabat just called, they found a body. Bourne?
vosen		Desh.
cronin		Pam, You need to see this.
landy		They don't know.
cronin		No, if they knew Vosen wouldn't be in his office right now.
cronin		Maybe he's trying to communicate with you.
landy		Maybe we should communicate back. Because I think I know what Bourne's looking for.
landy		Pamela Landy.
bourne		I hear you're still looking for me.
landy		Bourne?
landy		I guess I owe you an apology.
landy		Wait.     Wait.
landy		David Webb. That's your real name.
vosen		Why the hell did she give him that?
landy		Why don't you come in, and we'll talk about it?  Bourne?
bourne		Get some rest, Pam.
vosen		 He's got line of sight on us!
vosen		...This is a national security emergency. We have an imminent threat.
vosen		Jason Bourne is alive and at large in New York City. We believe in one thousand yards of this building. I want an immediate twelve block lockdown of the area. Send a FLASH message to Langley, prep for local backup assistance.
wills		Landy just left the building.
vosen		Check Landy's phone.   Is she using it?
vosen		Nothing?   No calls since Bourne-- ?
vosen		What the hell do you mean we can't read it?
tech		Working on it--
vosen		 Are we on Landy?
tech		Six men.   More on the way.
vosen		I want that goddamn text.   We need to get out in front of her!
tech		Seconds...
vosen		Surround it. Anyone not on Landy goes to Tudor City. Now!  Get the trucks. We're going mobile.
agent 3		Copy, we're going to take a left at 41st. One block, settle at the corner.
vosen		Get the map up.
agent 4		It's a bad place to pick, it's too exposed.
vosen		He wouldn't have chosen it if he didn't have a reason.
vosen		As soon as you have eyes on Landy, I want to know.
agent 3		Okay, here we go.
vosen		Copy that, I see her.
vosen		Noah Vosen.
vosen		How did you get this number?
vosen		No, I guess not. But if it's me you want to talk to maybe we can arrange a meet.
vosen		In my office.
bourne		We'd be having this conversation face-to-face.
vosen		This is a code ten abort, I want everybody back in the vehicles this is a code ten abort! Back to the vehicles immediately, back to CRI immediately.
wills		Bourne got into your safe!
landy		What just happened?
cronin		Bourne got into Vosen's safe.
landy		What?!
cronin		Where to?
landy		415 East 71st Street.
vosen		...I want the entire building searched. Every room. Every hallway. Every closet. Every goddamm airduct. Do you understand? I want him found!
vosen		 Lethal force is authorized.
vosen		Tell them again!
vosen		Take him out!
cri agent		Ho-ly shit!
vosen		 He did what?!
vosen		 Get NYPD backup! And FBI, DEA, any other federal assets we can draft!
bourne		10-13. Shots fired. Officer down. Port Authority parking lot. Level four.
wills		The asset lost Bourne.   We lost him.
tech		Sir, this may be nothing but, look at Bourne's birthday.
wills		What about it?
tech		Well, Landy told Bourne his birthday was 4/15/71 so...
wills		Everything stops. 
cri agent		Landy gave Bourne a false birthday. Wills thinks it's a code.
wills		--hang on -- wait -- Seventy First Street? Like what? Like York and First?
wills		She gave him the facility.     She gave him--
vosen		 We're already on our way. Turn the teams around. Bring them in behind me.
vosen		Not long.    Get out of there.
hirsch		No.   I'm going to stay.
vosen		Are you crazy, he'll--
hirsch		He'll come to the training wing. That's what he knows. I'll keep him in play until you arrive.
bourne		They'll kill you for giving me this place.
landy		4/15/71 isn't much of a code. My guess is Vosen's already on his way.
bourne		Why'd you do it?
landy		This isn't us, David. What they turned you into, what they're doing with Blackbriar... This has to stop.
bourne		Then stop it. Everything you need is in there.
landy		David... Come in with me. It's better if we do this together.
bourne		 This is where it started for me, this is where it ends.
landy		Oh, my God...  --A third page, more photos, no "terminated" on these. Future victims. "US citizen" stamped next to each one...
vosen		Landy! Right there!    She's got Bourne's backpack!
vosen		 I'll find Landy. You get to the training wing and get Bourne!
vosen		Do you know who I am?  Where's your security room?
vosen		I want to see all your footage for the last three minutes.
landy		You better get a good lawyer.
hirsch		Put the gun down. I wouldn't be here if I didn't want to talk.
bourne		I've spent three years running. Three years trying to find out who I was.
hirsch		You still don't have it all back, do you? You haven't filled in all the pieces?
bourne		Let's start with the moment you found out I wouldn't execute Wombosi. The amnesia wasn't the issue, it was the fact that I didn't pull the trigger....
hirsch		One lapse meant your conditioning had failed.
bourne		It was always you, behind Conklin, behind Abbott.... They were just following orders.
hirsch		 I'm unarmed, Jason.
bourne		 "David." I'm David Webb.
hirsch		You were David Webb, but not anymore.
bourne		Why me?   Why did you pick me?
hirsch		You really don't remember, do you?  You picked us, Jason.
bourne		What does that mean?
hirsch		You volunteered.
hirsch		You volunteered right here.... You didn't even blink, Jason. You just handed me these...
bourne		Yes, sir.
hirsch		You were a soldier ready to serve his country. Just like thousands of others, except you were a prodigy with languages...and a perfect shot.
bourne		You said I'd be saving American lives. Instead you just turned me into a killer.
hirsch		You could have left at any time. And you knew exactly what it meant for you if you chose to stay.
hirsch		When we're finished with you, you'll no longer be David Webb.
bourne		I'll be whoever you need me to be, sir.
hirsch		Stop running from the truth, Jason. You chose to come here! You chose to stay! And no matter how much you want to forget it...eventually you're going to have to face how you chose, right there, to become Jason Bourne!
bourne		Who is he?
hirsch		We've been through that.
bourne		What did he do?
hirsch		It doesn't matter.  You came to us. You volunteered. You said you'd do anything it takes to save American lives. You're not a liar are you? Or too weak to see this through? This is it. Let go of David Webb. Will you give yourself to this program?
kramer		He's ready. Send him to Operations.
hirsch		Do you remember now?
bourne		I remember. I remember everything.
hirsch		You can't outrun what you did, Jason. You made yourself into who you are.
bourne		I'm done running.  That's why I'm here. To end you, to shut this down. I'm no longer Jason Bourne.
hirsch		So now you're going to kill me?
bourne		No. You don't deserve the star they give you on the wall at Langley.
paz		Why didn't you take the shot?
bourne		Do you even know why you're trying to kill me? Look at what they make you give.
****Dialogues from script :Box.txt****

norma		Did you hear something?
arthur		The doorbell.
norma		Are you sure that was the doorbell? From down below... the DOORBELL rings again.
arthur		Yep. Norma retrieves her WATCH from the bedside table.
norma		Quarter 'til five. Norma gets out of bed and throws on her bathrobe. Arthur sits up, hair sticking up in every direction. He has sideburns that run down the side of his face like daggers.
arthur		What is it?
norma		Someone left a box.
arthur		Who?
norma		I don't know. There was a car waiting... but they drove off. Norma hands the box to Arthur. He examines it.
walter		Should I close my eyes?
arthur		Maybe... it's up to you. Arthur opens the lid and sees that there are FOAM PEANUTS inside. He digs down and retrieves a WOODEN BOX. Its dimensions are 8" x 8" x 8".
norma		Is there a note? Arthur reaches inside the box and retrieves a small WHITE ENVELOPE. Printed on the envelope in CALLIGRAPHY is the name:
arthur		It's for you, Norma. Norma opens the envelope and removes a folded piece of white stationary. Printed in elegant calligraphy is a single sentence:
norma		Mr. Steward will call upon you at 5
arthur		I dunno. You tell us.
arthur		What kind of car was it?
norma		I couldn't see. It was dark and 1 didn't have my contacts in.
walter		Why would they just drive off?
norma		I don't know. But the bus will be here if five minutes... so eat.
walter		Last day of school and now it starts to snow?!
norma		Put on your hat... A young girl, DANA  is waiting at the end of the sidewalk. She is wrapped head-to-toe in warm clothes... EARMUFFS and SCARF around her neck.
dana		 Hi Mrs. Lewis.
norma		Good morning, Dana.
walter		You are old!
norma		I'm thirty-one!
walter		To us that's old! You're a geezer!
norma		Well you'll be a geezer one day too, smarty-pants.
walter		Why does the bus stop have to be at the end of our driveway?
walter		Please. Go. Inside. You're embarrassing me.
norma		My love embarrasses you?
walter		Yes. Yes it does. She begins to walk down the sidewalk... taunting him as the bus approaches.
norma		What if I give little Walter a little kiss in front of all his friends on the school bus? Dana's eyes widen. A MISCHIEVOUS GRIN emerges from behind the scarf that covers the lower part of her face.
dana		Do it! The bus is fast approaching... brakes squealing as it slows to a stop.
walter		Don't come any closer! Norma gives him a big HUG and a KISS right as the bus doors open. A bunch of OLDER KIDS stare out the window... scowling at him. Walter pushes away from her and stomps up onto the bus... mortified. Dana follows him.
norma		Dana... you're baby-sitting for us tonight, right?
dana		Eight o'clock?
norma		Eight o'clock.
dana		Okay. Dana gets on the bus. BUD WALL , the bus driver, smiles at Norma. He is an enormous giant of a man with a shaved head.
norma		Bus-Driver Bud! Merry Christmas...
bud		Our last day!
normal		I know!
bud		It'll all be over soon, Norma. He stares at her for a moment that is almost too long... then shuts the doors to the bus.
arthur		 Do you realize that this is the first time in my life that I will be taking more than a week's vacation, June? Norma arrives in the kitchen. She now has a slight limp.
norma		Rex Morgan... I need you back here no later than seven. Rehearsal dinner starts at eight. Arthur grabs his BRIEFCASE and a BASKETBALL.
arthur		The Viking Squad has a game at four.
norma		Don't get stuck in Friday traffic...
arthur		Okay June. He starts bouncing the ball on the kitchen floor. She grabs the ball in mid bounce... annoyed with him.
norma		Not in the house!
arthur		How's your foot?
norma		It's fine. She pushes him toward into the FAMILY ROOM... opening the door that leads out to the garage. They exit the house and the CAMERA drifts back toward the kitchen table... moving in toward the box.
arthur		It's your Christmas present.
norma		From you?
arthur		From your secret lover.
norma		Don't be late tonight.
arthur		I've got your present at work. It's almost finished. He smiles... then peels off down Monument Ave. From Norma's REAR VIEW MIRROR... Arthur's car disappears down the road. She reaches up to re-adjust... her eyes appear in the mirror's reflection. INSERT: Norma's VIRGINIA license plate. The Oldsmobile drives down the street in the opposite direction.
dana		Why does your mom limp?
charles		Yeah... is something wrong with her foot?
walter		That's none of your business.
charles		Dana saw her take her shoe off in the parking lot yesterday.
dana		There's definitely something wrong with her foot. It looks mangled.
charles		You didn't say mangled... you said it looked gross. Walter lunges at Charles and pushes him up against the locker... awkwardly trying to fight him.
walter		If you ever make fun of my mom again I'll kill you! Walter storms off down the hall.
poates		The uhhh... the board came to a vote last week, so it's official. They've officially cancelled the faculty tuition discount.
norma		So what does that mean for me?
norma		Starting when?
poates		Next semester. Norma notices a SMALL DROP of BLOOD forming in his right nostril.
norma		Okay.
poates		I'm real sorry about this, Norma.
norma		Yeah, me too. I've got three weeks to figure out how to tell my son we can't afford to send him to Collegiate any more. The drop of blood has begun to flow down onto his upper lip.
poates		Like I said, I'm real sorry.
norma		Yeah... your nose is bleeding. Poates reaches for his HANDKERCHIEF and puts it to his face, wiping off the blood. The MORNING BELL rings.
norma		Okay... everyone quiet down! Take your seats! Norma moves toward a stack of METAL TRAYS on her desk. Inside of each tray is a BALL OF BLACK MUSH.
charles		Why do they call it an owl pellet? A MALE STUDENT  next to him takes his tray from Norma.
norma		Hey... watch the language. You say another cuss word I've gotta send you to detention, okay?
norma		Is what true?
norma		Yes... this is true. The classroom gasps in disgust... others laugh.
cahill		Well... there are three separate tests that we've been conducting... Pyrolytic Release, Labeled Release and Gas Exchange. The first two tests, based on soil samples about 22 centimeters deep, came back negative... and the third is... still pending. Cahill smiles. Laughter erupts from various parts of the auditorium.
cahill		The gas exchange experiment measures the production or uptake of C02, nitrogen, methane, hydrogen, and oxygen during the incubation of the martian soil sample.
cahill		Well... there is a possibility that the planet abounds with chemical compounds produced by living systems. Their chemical nature, distribution and structural uniqueness could be used to argue the presence of microscopic living organisms on Mars. As Cahill moves on to the next question... Arthur taps the reporter on the shoulder.
arthur		It all comes down to water. Arthur points to an OVERHEAD SATELLITE PHOTO of Utopia Planitia, a raised level of martian terrain in the vicinity of the site where VIKING II landed. There are dry river-bed formations in the soil.
cahill		I'm sorry Arthur, but they've denied your application to be admitted into the astronaut program. Arthur looks crushed.
arthur		I see.
cahill		I'm sorry, son... but they don't tell us why.
arthur		Are they really with-holding some of the Mars photos?
wendell		I don't know, man. Jesus... what's that smell?
arthur		It's a salinic compound.
wendell		What are you making?
arthur		Christmas present for Norma. Arthur retrieves a WHITE CERAMIC MOLD. The mold has an extrusion that is shaped like a WOMAN'S FOOT... only the end of the foot is round and missing its toes, save for the PINKY
wendell		A new prosthesis for her foot?
arthur		Yep. Arthur carefully impresses the MOLD of his wife's foot into the pink goop... sealing the mold at the edges into the tray.
wendell		What did you change up this time?
arthur		The compound they're developing for the pilot chairs on the space shuttle.
charles		Mrs. Lewis?
norma		Hmmm?
charles		What happened to your foot? She just stares at him.
norma		What happened... to my foot?
charles		Yeah.
norma		Well... it's a long story. She looks at her watch.
arthur		When she was seventeen... still living in Texas, her brother dropped a barbell on her foot... broke three of her toes.
norma		And so I go to see the doctor. He goes to take an X-ray of my foot to see if the bones are broken.
arthur		So this dumb-ass Richmond doctor takes the x-ray... then he goes to check on another patient down the hall. Arthur discards a king.
wendell		Jesus. That's not good.
norma		They found out that the tissue in four of my toes had been completely
arthur		She had to sit there in a hospital bed in the same position for six months, waiting for it to heal. Wendell stares at the mold on the laboratory table.
wendell		Jesus. I hope she sued this idiot.
arthur		Oh yeah. Her family sued. They won.
wendell		What was the settlement?
arthur		Forty thousand dollars. Arthur pulls the ceramic mold out of the pink goop... and we see the IMPRESSION of her disfigured foot inside the new
norma		You guys want to see it? Now that the secret is out... I don't want you spreading rumors about my mangled foot. The class responds enthusiastically.
arthur		If this sucker works... she can, start jogging again.
dana		I'm sorry I said that her foot looked gross.
walter		It doesn't look gross... it looks cool. And if you can't tell the difference between gross and cool... then I feel sorry for you, Dana. Walter walks off... leaving her alone.
norma		Hey honey.
walter		Why do I need a baby-sitter?
norma		Because you're nine years old. You're not a geezer yet.
walter		It's 1976, mom. Times are changing. Nine years old isn't what it used to be. I think I'm ready to get a moped.
norma		We're not buying you a moped, Walter. Stick with the bike... and be home before dark.
walter		Fine. Walter rides off down the street.
norma		Hello? There is silence on the other end of the line.
wendell		How's the commute back to Richmond?
arthur		Not too bad. Maybe an hour and twenty minutes.
wendell		Tell Norma I said hello. Wendell watches him walk across the lawn to the parking lot... approaching his car. He lights a cigarette and takes a drag... then looks at his watch. INSERT: His watch shows that it is 4:58 PM.
arlington		Mrs. Lewis?
norma		Yeah.
arlington		My name is Arlington Steward. Her eyes light up, as she remembers the name and the box. Arlington then rotates his body... revealing the RIGHT SIDE of his face. Norma's eyes widen in horror at what she sees. Nearly all of the right side of his face from his cheekbone to his lower jaw has been burned away. His rear MOLARS and GUMS are exposed beneath the absence of tissue that is supposed to conceal them. Norma immediately feels a strange connection... a deep sympathy for him and the pain he must have endured.
norma		Oh, yes. Yes we did.
arlington		And you retrieved the button unit inside of the box. Norma smiles. He smiles back at her.
norma		The button unit. That's what you call it?
arlington		Indeed. May I come in?
norma		Sure. Norma turns and leads him back into the kitchen. She retrieves the button unit from the table.
arlington		Well... in a way, yes. I do have an offer to make.
norma		Yeah? What are you selling?
arlington		A financial opportunity. Arlington gestures toward the table with his briefcase.
norma		Are you for real? Arlington smiles back at her.
arlington		Mrs. Lewis, I can assure you that the offer is real.
norma		Who do you work for?
arlington		The guarantee of payment has several restrictions. One... I am not permitted to disclose any information about to the identity of my employers.
norma		Wait a minute... you're just going to leave me with this thing.
arlington		My name is Arlington Steward, and I can assure you that this is no joke. The offer is real, but I am not at liberty to disclose any more information than I already have. He withdraws a BUSINESS CARD and hands it to her.
walter		What do you want?
dana		I'm sorry. I just wanted to tell you... that I think your mom is beautiful. Walter just stares at her in silence... wanting to forgive her.
susan		Hello?
susan		Hey honey. What's up?
susan		Is something wrong?
norma		No... something just happened and...
norma		Nothing. I don't want to talk about it right now.
susan		Alright.  Jim... you gotta get ready.
jim		Alright. He sits up and moves toward the stairs.
susan		Wait until you see the spread tonight.
norma		Hmmm. I think they're spending more on their wedding than we did on our house.
norma		A little, yeah. That damn bone. The skin from my leg, it's not as tough as it should be.
norma		Who?
susan		Dr. Stupid. Norma takes this in... remembering...
norma		Well... it's been what... thirteen years? Bound to run into each other at some point, right?
norma		What's this?
arthur		A little gift from Dr. Rex Morgan. She opens the present and retrieves the PROSTHESIS.
norma		Oh my god!
arthur		It's a material they developed for the new shuttle chairs. It'll absorb the pressure of your foot and re-distribute it across the entire surface area. She then slides her disfigured foot into the shoe... and begins to walk around the room.
norma		Oh my God, Rex... how'd you do it?
arthur		I just figured out a way to make it better. She crosses the room and gives him a hug and a kiss.
norma		I don't know what I'd do without you.
arthur		Merry Christmas, June.
walter		Did Mr. Steward show up? Norma sees the box sitting there and immediately grabs it off the table.
arthur		Yeah... what's it all about. Did he show up?
norma		Yeah... I'll tell you about it in the car. We're running late. Norma leans down and kisses Walter on the cheek.
norma		And before I could ask him anything else... he got in his car... and he pulled off.
arthur		Did you get the license plate?
norma		No.
arthur		Your dad is cop, Norma. Always get the license plate number.
norma		I was little overwhelmed, Arthur.
arthur		Somewhere in the world... someone you do not know will die.
norma		Those were his exact words.
arthur		Did he say how they would die?
norma		No.
arthur		And he showed you the cash.
norma		Yeah. He said it was two-hundred thousand. It looked real to me.
arthur		What did he look like?
norma		You don't want to know. I think he's a burn victim. Poor thing... half of his face is gone.
arthur		Really?
norma		I think maybe he's a life insurance salesman. Maybe that's what it is. It's some kind of survey. We push the button and he offers us a discount on a two-hundred thousand dollar life insurance policy. Joke's on us.
arthur		Did you bring the key with you? She hands it to him. He takes the key and inserts it... opening the glass dome. He then takes his INDEX FINGER and places it on the button.
norma		What the hell are you doing?!
norma		No!
arthur		You think it's for real. She takes the box back from him.
norma		I don't know. He was... he seemed very sure of himself. If it's some kind of survey... then... he's a really good salesman because I believe him. I believe that he might give us that money.
arthur		Do then you think he's a maniac and he might go kill someone?
norma		I don't know. Arthur takes the box back from her. He shakes it... then flips it over. He sees that there is a SINGLE SCREW on the bottom corner that holds it together.
arthur		Open the glove compartment. There's a philips head screwdriver in there. She opens the GLOVE COMPARTMENT and retrieves a PHILLIPS HEAD SCREWDRIVER for him.
norma		What are you doing? Arthur is now unscrewing the bottom of the box.
arthur		I'm gonna see what's inside of it. He removes the screw... and sees that the wooden base rotates on a ROD MOUNT on the opposite corner. INSIDE... it is completely empty.
arthur		Let me hold the key.
norma		Why do you get to hold it?
arthur		Because you'll lose it Norma. You can't hold your liquor.
norma		Neither can you.
arthur		What if someone takes your purse? I have pockets. Let me hold it.
norma		Fine. Norma goes through her purse and hands the small envelope to him. They move toward the entrance to the country club.
norma		Jesus. All this for a rehearsal dinner... Deborah is so lucky. Remember our rehearsal dinner?
arthur		Yeah. Keg party in our back yard. Susan and Jim are standing with ARTHUR LEWIS, SR . Arthur and Norma go over to greet them. The CAMERA drifts over to a PLACARD that reads:
dana		Merry Christmas... Walter takes the package and begins to remove the wrapping paper. Inside is a COMIC BOOK. He pulls it out of the wrapping... and on the cover is an illustration of a DARK FIGURE walking upon a RED DESERT SURFACE. The title is: THE MAN FROM MARS Walter looks at the cover in awe.
walter		Thanks Dana. My dad is gonna love this.
bev		When are you gonna cut this hair?
arthur		Never.
norma		Uh-huh.
bev		Well honey... they're never gonna let you into outer space with these sideburns.
susan		They're all wearing them that way now, Bev.
nathan		Outer space? Is someone planning on departing the surface of the earth?
arthur		Nathan! Arthur stands up and gives him a hug.
nathan		I've been better... I mean, I used to have legs... The table goes silent... Susan looks as though she might start to cry.
norma		Arthur has been working at Nasa.
jim		He helped design the camera that photographed the Mars surface. Arthur puts his hands on the back of Nathan's wheelchair.
arthur		Nathan and I are gonna go grab a drink... He begins to wheel Nathan toward the bar.
norma		Arthur made me a new prosthesis for my foot. Some space age formula... it's incredible.
jim		Can he make Nathan a pair of prosthetic legs?
nathan		Can you believe it? I survive eighteen months crawlling through the Vietnam jungle and not one bullet so much as grazes my body.
arthur		What'd you ever do to Norma?
nathan		I dropped that barbell on her foot when we were kids. That's why she went to get that x-ray. If it wasn't for me... she'd still have all her toes.
arthur		You can't think of it that way.
nathan		Why not? It's the truth.
arthur		You didn't leave the x-ray machine on, Dr. Stupid did.
nathan		Yeah, but my mistake sent her to Dr. Stupid... so that makes me culpable in the eyes of Buddha.
arthur		You're no more culpable than the company that manufactured the barbell. Stop punishing yourself. Nathan smiles in appreciation and takes a long swig of Jack Daniels.
nathan		You know he's here.
arthur		Who?
nathan		Dr. Stupid. Nathan nods his head across the room... where DR. EARL STUPE  is seated at a table with his wife.
susan		I wonder if he even recognizes us.
jim		I'm sure he does.
deborah		I can't believe they still let him practice medicine.
norma		You gotta let it go. You gotta learn to forgive and forget.
susan		I'd be willing to forgive him if he would've just admitted his negligence under oath. The bastard lied... said it was the x-ray machine that malfunctioned. SENATOR GRIFFITH POWELL , approach. Edward is the husband-to-be.
powell		Now that the mid-term elections are over... the smile lines are starting to fade. Powell puts on a fake smile, grabs Jim's hand and they both wave... poking fun at politician behavior.
susan		Well... we all voted! Powell looks over at Norma.
powell		Norma... right?
norma		That's right. He shakes her hand... fascinated by her.
powell		And you're married to the aspiring astronaut.
norma		That's right. There he is right over there. She points over to Arthur the bar. Powell looks over at him... and they briefly make eye contact.
dana		Walter?
walter		Yeah?
dana		Will you take me down to the basement? I want to see your dad's darkroom.
dana		Is that Mars?
walter		Yep.
dana		What did your dad have to do with the Viking?
walter		He helped design the camera. Walter points to a PLASTIC PROTOTYPE MODEL of the VIKING LANDER mounted on a third WORK BENCH at the end of the room. A model of the MARS SURFACE has been re-created and painted with exacting detail.
dana		How do they get the images back to earth?
walter		Radio transmission. They figured out a way to interpret the scan lines and then print them onto film.
dana		How long does it take to transmit back to earth?
walter		About ten hours. Dana looks over at the wall and sees a NEW YORK TIMES FRONT PAGE from September with a large image of MARS on it.
dana		How'd he do that?
walter		Because the camera takes five minutes to scan in 360 degrees, he waited until the camera passed over him then jumped ahead in the circle. The CAMERA moves in closer to the photograph... to the THIRD VERSION of ARTHUR LEWIS.
dana		Your dad sounds pretty clever.
walter		My dad is more than just clever, Dana. My dad is the coolest man who ever walked the face of the earth. The CAMERA ZOOMS in close to Arthur's face... then tips down to another MAN kneeling on the pavement directly below him. It is ARLINGTON STEWARD... smiling at the camera. His face is normal... no evidence of any burn visible...
norma		Two-hundred thousand dollars is a lot of money, Arthur.
arthur		What would we do with that kind of money?
norma		We could get out of Richmond... move to California.
arthur		Then we could cross the border into Mexico if they ever came after us.
norma		You can't arrest someone for pushing a button, Arthur. It's not a weapon. It's not a gun. We wouldn't be culpable... not in a court of law.
arthur		What if it's someone's baby?
norma		What if it's some murderer on death row in China?
arthur		What if it's our neighbor across the street. Do you know our neighbors across the street? Have you ever met them?
norma		Yeah. Doug and Donna.
arthur		Hmmm. I haven't met Doug or Donna.
norma		I know you better than you know yourself.
arthur		Do you know Walter?
norma		Even better than I know you. They spin around on the dance floor.
arthur		It's just a stupid prank, Norma.
norma		Life insurance. Arthur gazes across the ballroom toward the bar. Nathan sits there alone... finishing his drink.
norma		Dana... Dana's eyes slowly open.
dana		I have my bike... and my house isn't far from here.
norma		Where's Walter?
dana		He's asleep upstairs. Arthur hands Dana a ten dollar bill.
arthur		Are you sure you don't need a ride?
dana		I'm sure.
arthur		Good night, Dana. Dana exits through the front door. Norma stands up and moves toward the foyer.
norma		Can you turn off the Christmas tree lights?
arthur		I like leaving them on.
norma		It's a fire hazard.
arthur		It keeps the Christmas spirit alive while we sleep.
norma		We could die.
arthur		Everyone dies eventually, Norma. She stares at the tree.
norma		Fine. Leave them on. She goes upstairs... leaving him alone with the glowing tree. Arthur looks down at the coffee table. The box sits there... taunting him. He retrieves the KEY ENVELOPE from his pocket and stares at it. He then walks over to the wall and unplugs the Christmas tree lights.
norma		We'll never see that much money.
arthur		Why do you say that?
norma		Be realistic Arthur... you work for the government.
arthur		Maybe not forever.
norma		We'll never leave Richmond.
arthur		Do you want to move?
norma		We have to put Walter in public school.
arthur		Why?
norma		Collegiate withdrew the faculty tuition discount.
arthur		No...
norma		Yeah. They did.
arthur		No...
norma		We'd have to enroll him at Hopewell. Unless...
arthur		Unless what, Norma? She reaches out and holds her finger over the button... thinking. She then picks up the business card with her other hand, flips it over and stares at the number.
norma		Yeah. Norma begins to dial the number on the card.
arlington		Hello Mrs. Lewis.
norma		Is this Mr. Steward?
norma		How did you know it was me... are you tracing this call?
norma		If we push the button... are you going to murder someone?
arlington		When you push the button... somewhere in this world... someone you do not know... will die. I never mentioned the word murder.
arlington		I'm not at liberty to disclose that information. Besides... it would spoil the fun.
arlington		I am not at liberty to disclose any information about my employers. I can only remind you that the offer is real...  .and it expires in approximately eight hours.
arlington		Absolutely nothing. The reward is for you.
norma		Can we meet in person? I'd like to see you... before we make our final decision.
arlington		Why... I'm looking at you right now, Norma.
norma		Excuse me?
arlington		The grey spotted owl... in your back yard. Norma turns and looks out the large picture window in the kitchen nook. Outside in the back yard, an OWL is perched on a planter. The large bird sits motionless... its large SAUCER EYES do not blink. Norma stares at it for a long moment... transfixed. Arthur paces around the kitchen... facing in the other direction. Outside... the owl flies away before Arthur notices it.
norma		Hello? There is no response.
arthur		What do you want to do Norma?
norma		We're gonna have to pull Walter out of that school.
arthur		Then push it.
norma		I'm scared to.
arthur		Well... if you don't push it... then I will.
norma		Ladies first. She then reaches out and presses down on the button with her index finger.
female voice		okay... The Officer then kicks the door down.
arthur		There's no turning back now. Seconds later... THE DOORBELL RINGS. Both Norma and Arthur jump in their seats.
arlington		Hello, Mrs. Lewis.
norma		Hi.
arlington		Do you have the button unit?
norma		Uhh... yeah... it's in the kitchen. Norma goes to the kitchen to retrieve the box, leaving Arthur alone with Arlington.
arlington		And you must be Mr. Lewis.
norma		Oh... sorry... Norma reaches into her pocket and retrieves the small envelope and places it in his hand.
arlington		Thank you. Arlington then opens the BRIEFCASE and shows it to them. Inside... the bills are stacked neatly in rows.
arthur		Thanks... we trust your word. Arlington offers him a broad smile.
arlington		As you should. He then turns to leave.
norma		You said before that the box is re- programmed...
arlington		Yes.
norma		So now what? Are you gonna go and make the offer to someone else?
arlington		Why yes. That-'s how it works, Mrs. Lewis.
arthur		I got his license plate.
arthur		What are you thinking, Norma?
norma		I don't know. Arthur paces around... thinking. He then opens the briefcase and starts counting through the money.
arthur		Did he mean that we're next? Is that what he meant?
norma		I don't know.
secretary		Your daughter is on line two.
jim		Alright. He picks up the phone.
norma		Hey dad...
norma		I need a favor.
norma		I need you to run a license plate for me. Someone just came by the house... and we think he might...  He just seemed real suspicious and Arthur got the license plate and I need you to run it.
norma		No... if you could just run the plate and find out whose car it is.
norma		Hello?
norma		Yeah. Norma begins to write them down.
norma		Hi... I'm trying to reach an Arlington Steward.
norma		Yes.
norma		Yes.
arthur		Who is this?
arthur		Norma...
norma		Arthur...
arthur		Tell me this isn't real. Tell me this isn't happening.
norma		This isn't real. This isn't happening.
arthur		I don't think I believe you, Norma.
norma		We're off to run an errand. Be back in a few hours, okay?
walter		Okay. He watches as they drive off.
norma		There was owl... in our back yard.
arthur		An owl?
norma		He said it was his owl.
arthur		Are you hiding anything else from me, Norma?
norma		No exit.
norma		it's pronounced Sartre. Jean-Paul Sartre. The French existentialist. She begins to thumb through the pages of the play.
arthur		Never read it.
norma		It's a play... I read it in high school. It's about three strangers who find themselves trapped in a room together for all of eternity. They've quickly discover that they've all been sent to hell. Norma turns back to the inside cover of the book. Someone has written in crisp penmanship:
norma		Hi... we're looking for an archival Times-Dispatch from September of this year. She offers them a warm smile.
librarian		Microfiche.
arthur		Arlington Steward... I remember the name now. He used to work at
cahill		Alright... the first photo should come down off the server in less than a minute.
bevilacqua		Touchdown.
arthur		An engineer at the NASA Langley research center was struck by lightning yesterday evening...
bevilacqua		Jesus Christ. Bevilacqua and the others begin to sprint across the lawn toward the base of the structure to the ELEVATOR DOOR at the bottom of the elevator shaft on the south end of the module.
arthur		The man received third degree burns over fifty percent of his body...
arthur		He got struck by lightning on the night we received the transmission from Mars.
cahill		What happened?
bevilacqua		The module got hit!
cahill		Lightning?
bevilacqua		Yeah. Steward was up there on the trestle. He got burned real bad! The CAMERA moves in toward Bevilacqua's face... his eyes filled with anguish and despair.
jim		Our fugitive is named Robert Bevilacqua. He shot and killed his wife at their residence on Cary Street earlier today. We believe that he escaped on foot... and could be armed and dangerous. The CAMERA moves across a line of POLICE OFFICERS... listening...
wendell		Bevilacqua... Bevilacqua turns to face him.
bevilacqua		Wendell. They hug one another.
bevilacqua		You designed it?
wendell		Yeah. Cahill told me to...
wendell		This what you were looking for, sir? Cahill looks stares at the blue-print... possessed. A DROP OF BLOOD falls from his right nostril and lands on it.
cahill		Yes. Thank you Wendell.
cahill		You're not gonna hurt these boys, are you?
arlington		Any harm that comes to them will be their own doing. Arlington takes the bag and moves toward the hangar entrance.
wendell		There's a list... and they've all got a wife and one child. Bevilacqua thumbs through the list of NASA dossiers. He sees Arthur Lewis among them.
bevilacqua		This is a confession letter that I wrote... it explains everything that happened with Steward and the box. Keep it... cause if I don't make it... this might clear my name one day. Bevilacqua looks at the KENNETH WELLER dossier.
wendell		No. They're not listed. Just an old address south of Petersburg. What are you gonna do?
bevilacqua		I don't know. I need a car. I might be able to save them... and this guy Arthur Lewis... Wendell thinks to himself... then retrieves a set of KEYS from his pocket.
wendell		These are the keys to my cousin's pick-up truck. It's not registered. It's parked in front of my house over on Byrd street. Take it...
bevilacqua		Thank you, Wendell.
receptionist		Sir... there's a Mr. Steward here to see you.
steward twin		Officer Burns... my name is Reston Steward.
arlington		Officer Burns... my name is Reston Steward.
reston		I see you have made an inquiry about my brother Arlington.
arlington		. an inquiry about my brother Arlington.
jim		Yes. Apparently he made an appearance at my daughter's house. Your brother works for NASA?
arlington		Yes. My brother works at the Langley research facility.
jim		With my son-in-law.
reston		That's right.
jim		And may I ask... what do you do, Mr. Steward?
reston		I work for the CIA.
jim		I see. He then hands Jim one of his cards. Jim looks at it.
reston steward		Reston rises to his feet... putting his hat on his head.
reston		I assure you my brother is of no threat to your daughter. However, the man you're looking for... Robert Bevilacqua. He is very dangerous... and he might try and contact your son-in-law or your daughter.
jim		Really.
reston		Yes.
reston		General Nathan Teague at the Pentagon. Get him on the phone immediately. The Agent opens the car door, and Reston steps inside.
arthur		You alright, Norma?
norma		I feel like I'm gonna faint... She stands up to leave.
arthur		Where are you going?
norma		Bathroom. Norma moves.taward the main library... leaving Arthur alone.
librarian		The myth of Prometheus tells the story of a God who created man.
arthur		Was that you on the phone? You're his mother...
librarian		He finds your wife fascinating... Mr. Lewis. Her name is ELIZABETH STEWARD.
arlington		Have a seat... Mrs. Lewis. She looks around... realizing that the library is now completely empty.
elizabeth		My name is Clymene, mother of five. Prometheus, Atlas, Menoetius, Logan, and Epimetheus. A drop of blood begins to ooze from her left eye as she speaks.
arlington		Tell me Norma... when was the exact moment that you realized you loved your husband? There is something about him that now makes her feel safe... willing to tell him anything.
norma		About five seconds after I laid eyes on him.
arlington		And when was this?
norma		In college. My sophomore year. He was a year younger than me. We dated for two weeks and then... She stops herself.
arlington		You became frightened about something.
norma		Then I thought... this is too good to be true. When he sees my mangled foot... he's gonna be out the door in ten seconds and he's gonna go tell all his friends.
arlington		How did he respond when you showed him?
norma		We were at the drive-in... and he caught a glimpse of the scars on my thigh. He asked me what happened... and I felt this sense of dread.
arlington		Why?
norma		Because you can just see the glow disappear in someone's eyes when they discover something about you that they just can't stomach.
arlington		Did the glow disappear from his eyes?
norma		No. Not Arthur. He was different than the others. He... said that... my scars were cool.
elizabeth		I have worked at this library for forty years. Since 1936, I have read a book a day. 23455 books I have read.
arthur		Wow.
elizabeth		Of all of the books I have read in my lifetime... this is my son's favorite.
arthur		No. She reaches out with her hand.
elizabeth		Take my hand... and I'll show you.
arthur		I'm not gonna touch you, lady.
arlington		And what emotion did you feel when you first laid eyes upon me, Norma? She thinks silently for a moment.
norma		I felt.. . She stops herself... afraid of how he might respond if she is honest with him.
arlington		You felt what?
norma		I felt...
arlington		Pity?
norma		Love.
arlington		You felt love for me?
norma		Yes.
arlington		Why?
norma		Because of my foot. Because of my disfigurement. I thought of all the pain I've felt in my life because of it... the physical pain... the emotional pain.
elizabeth		Take my hand, son.
arthur		You called me a cuckold. You made a statement... made an implication to me that my wife was going to be killed.
arlington		Take my hand, Norma... She stares at him, unable to move... then takes his hand...
arthur		Norma... Her eyes open. She looks around... disoriented.
norma		I don't know. Norma notices Walter standing in the doorway.
walter		You came home an hour ago.
norma		We did? She sits up in bed... looking at the clock radio. It is 6PM.
walter		Neither of you said a word... you just walked into the house like two zombies. Went straight to bed. Arthur and Norma stare at one another, trying to make sense of what has just transpired.
norma		The wedding. It starts in an hour. We've got to get ready.
walter		What's going on?
arthur		I don't know.
walter		This is about the box... isn't it?
arthur		Yeah.
walter		Did you push the button?
arthur		Your mother did.
walter		What happens when you push the button?
arthur		I don't know.
walter		Yes you do. You're just not telling me. Arthur finishes with his tie. He notices something on the floor of his son's bedroom. It is the MARS COMIC BOOK. He picks it up and stares at the dark figure looming on the cover.
arthur		Where did you get this?
walter		Dana. She gave it to me. Arthur begins to page through the comic book.
sniper		Alright... they are entering the building from the south entrance on fourteenth street.
receptionist		Excuse me... may I help you?
arlington		Where is he?
receptionist		Uhhh... he's in a meeting.
arlington		I need to see him... now.
receptionist		He's here... I don't know what to do. Powell turns to face her.
powell		Let him in. The Receptionist goes back out... and within moments... Arlington and Bud enter the office. The Receptionist closes the door and leaves them alone.
arlington		Hello Senator.
arlington		Call me Arlington.
powell		Okay... Arlington. Bud just stares at the Senator... showing no sign of emotion.
arlington		Do you have my money?
powell		I've given you four-hundred thousand already. How much more are you going to need?
arlington		As much as it takes. Powell sighs out loud... irritated.
powell		Please! I've got it right here! Powell reaches beneath his desk and retrieves a large briefcase. He places it on the desk.
arlington		Bud... Bud grabs the briefcase from the desk and pops it open. He sees that it is filled with stacks of cash.
arthur		You and Walter were there in the room. You were wearing a black dress, identical to the one you have on now.
norma		They didn't have lids...
arthur		Yeah.
norma		I had the same dream. Arthur's mind is racing... he glances through the crowd nervously, afraid that they are being watched.
arthur		What's the last thing you remember?
norma		The library. He was asking me all of these questions... about you... about our marriage.
susan		Alright girls... time to line up! Susan hands Arthur the book and goes off with the other
preacher		Do you, Deborah Burns, take Edward Powell, to be your'-lawfully wedded husband, 'til death do you part?
deborah		I do. Norma looks over to Arthur, as he sits in the congregation. He is not paying attention to the wedding. He is reading Sartre's play... The CAMERA zooms into a close-up of the page describing the final scene in the play No Exit:
arthur		The play tells the story of uhree people, condemned to hell. They are to remain in a second empire drawing room for all of eternity. He closes the book... his mind dissecting what he has just read.
norma		There are no mirrors... so they will never be able to see their own reflection... but only the faces of their tormentors.
arthur		This is Sartre's vision of hell.
norma		Because Hell... is other people. The look into one another's eyes... Norma sees a WAITER pass by with a tray of CHAMPAGNE. They both take a glass. Jim crosses the lawn to greet them.
jim		Arthur... can I speak with you privately for a moment?
arthur		Sure. Arthur walks away with Jim toward the edge of a PATIO that overlooks the whole party.
jim		And do you know this fella? Robert Bevilacqua?
arthur		Yeah... I know him. He works at
jim		Do you know his wife?
arthur		No...
jim		Well... he shot and killed his wife yesterday morning.
arthur		No...
jim		Yeah... He shot her point blank in the chest in his kitchen. Arthur takes a deep breath. He isn't feeling well.
arthur		Yeah. Of course. Arthur looks down at the lawn. Norma is staring back at them.
norma		My little sister once asked me... what's the best thing about being married? Norma looks across the lawn to the table where Arthur is seated, next to Walter and their parents.
arthur		Why did you say that?
norma		Say what?
arthur		In your speech. That joke about me killing you.
norma		I don't know... I thought it was funny. Guess I've had too much champagne.
arthur		Did your dad tell you about Robert Bevilacqua?
norma		No.
arthur		He shot his wife yesterday morning. Did you know his wife?
norma		No. Norma is still searching for some other explanation.
arthur		What do you mean?
norma		A psychological test. They want to see how you'll respond to a moral dilemma... the fate of a human life... determined by the push of a single button. Think of the men on the Apollo thirteen mission... sound familiar? They turn slowly on the dance floor... Arthur closes his eyes... his mind racing... A VOICE breaks through the music...
stupe		I would like to dance with your wife. Do you mind? Arthur glares at Dr. Stupe.
norma		It's okay Arthur... Arthur looks at him... then back at Norma. His face has gone pale and he looks for a moment as though he might faint on the dance floor.
walter		Dad! What's going on?
arthur		I.. I'm gonna be sick Walter... He places his hand on his son's head for a brief moment and then stumbles up the stairs. ON THE DANCE FLOOR... Norma is now slow dancing with Dr. Stupe.
stupe		I know what they call me. Dr. Stupid. My patients... the ones who will still see me... they find out what I did and they stop calling.
norma		I'm sorry for that. I can't control what people say.
stupe		I am Dr. Stupid now. Someone wrote it on my windshield with soap once. I figure it must have been a relative... a friend of yours.
norma		Yes. You have my forgiveness, Earl. People make mistakes... and if they seek forgiveness... they should be forgiven.
stupe		There is that old cliche... that the lord works in mysterious ways. Well... I have met the lord. I have spoken to him in my dreams. And it brought me back to that day in my office when you arrived with a fractured foot... some thirteen years ago.
bevilacqua		You can still save yourself. It's too late for me... but you can still save yourself.
arthur		Bevilacqua...
bevilacqua		Follow me out through the kitchen. I have a truck waiting...
norma		Walter?
jim		I just spotted Bevilacqua... he's in a white pick-up truck. Potential hostage situation.
dana		Walter...
walter		Hey. Bud arrives next to her.
dana		Is everything alright?
walter		No.
dana		Come with us. She takes his hand and they move north back toward the church.
arthur		My wife.
bevilacqua		Yeah... me too. I wasn't even home. She decided to push it when I wasn't around to stop her.
arthur		And now she's dead. Did you kill her?
bevilacqua		I don't want to talk about it.
arthur		Where are you taking me? Bevilacqua retrieves a NASA DOSSIER from the dashboard and hands it to Arthur.
bevilacqua		Kenneth Weller. You know him?
arthur		Name sounds familiar. Does he work at Langley too?
bevilacqua		Yep. He's next. Him and his wife... they've got the box now. Suddenly... BLUE AND RED LIGHTS appear behind them... followed by the sound of a SIREN.
arthur		What are you doing?
bevilacqua		I'm not gonna let them get me... Arthur... we've got to get to Kenneth Weller. We've got to break the chain... or your wife is gonna die!
arthur		How is she going to die?
bevilacqua		You're going to kill her! Bevilacqua swerves into the ONCOMING TRAFFIC LANE to pass a car in front of them. A LARGE 18-WHEELER TRUCK is barreling toward them. Bevilacqua pulls the truck back into the right lane.
arthur		Jesus! You're gonna get us killed!
bevilacqua		Did Steward take you to the library? Did you meet his mother... the librarian?
arthur		Yeah.
bevilacqua		Did she tell you about Prometheus?
arthur		Yeah...
bevilacqua		Steward has a twin brother... and he works for the CIA. UP AHEAD... Arthur sees FOUR MORE POLICE CRUISERS with their lights flashing. They have formed a ROADBLOCK. Bevilacqua lowers his foot onto the accelerator... refusing to back down.
norma		Walter? A BLACK SEDAN pulls up next to her... and Reston steps out of the car. Norma locks eyes with him... recognizing his face...
reston		Mrs. Lewis? Norma Lewis?
norma		Yes.
reston		My name is Reston Steward. I work for the CIA.
norma		Yeah? Where is my son? Where is my husband?
reston		Please... get into the car. Norma stares at him in disbelief... as he opens the back door and gestures inside.
jim		Where's Arthur?
ems technician		Here... hold this against your forehead. It'll keep your head from swelling. Arthur takes the ice pack and places it against his head.
arthur		Thanks.
ems technician		I think it might have been a miracle. The EMS Technician shakes his head in disbelief.
arthur		What?
ems technician		That car accident. I've never seen someone walk away from an accident like that.
teague		Are you able to walk, son?
arthur		Yes, sir.
teague		Please step out of the ambulance.
norma		Arthur!
arthur		Norma! She hugs him... neither has slept in two days.
norma		Where's Walter?
arthur		I don't know. Reston steps forward.
reston		My brother has taken your son... but he assures me that he is alive and well. Reston tries to comfort them with a smile.
arthur		Yeah.
reston		In the 1940s... when NASA was formed, we began developing, in secret, a project that we dubbed the Prometheus Effect.
teague		Projecting fictional scenarios about how we would respond, if and when we came into contact with an alien intelligence.
reston		If the intelligence had hostile intent... or if it began to somehow display proof of its ability to destroy us, we would have a system in place to begin negotiating with it in secret.
teague		The goal of Prometheus is to maintain coexistence with this life- form, and eventually achieve peace with it, so that its power can be harnessed, developed and applied in such a manner that will benefit the human race. Arthur notices that Cahill is holding a folder in his right hand.
cahill		On the night of September 3rd, as the server was downloading images from the Viking camera system that you helped design... we experienced an electrical surge from a bolt of lightning. As they arrive at the entrance to the diner, Cahill shows Arthur a blurry black and white photograph.
teague		According to... it... and whatever it is... Arthur notices Arlington sitting alone in a booth inside the diner... waiting...
cahill		If the human spirit is assigned a specific bandwidth upon conception... twins... would provide it with a dual bandwidth carrier...
arthur		My camera... took this photo...
cahill		We've run the data sequence off the server more than a thousand times. Each time... this one photo in the sequence comes out of the dark room just like this. We can't explain why. Arthur hands the photo back to Cahill.
norma		What does it want? Cahill glances at Teague... who looks to Cahill.
cahill		I think the same thing that it wanted from Bevilacqua... except that poor boy is no longer around to tell us why he shot his wife.
norma		What did he say to you when you were in the car with him?
arthur		Something about breaking the chain. He wanted to find the next test subject... and prevent them from pushing the button. Cahill is writing diligently on his NOTE PAD. Reston can now feel something taking control of him... he looks to Teague... terrified. He closes his eyes... his body begins to twitch. Teague stares at his friend... realizing what is happening. Reston opens his eyes... now possessed... blood draining from his ears.
reston		General Teague... it's a pleasure to meet you.
arlington		Please have a seat. Reston sits down next to his twin brother... Arthur and Norma sit down across from the twins. Arlington has now locked completely into his brother's spirit... The movement of the two men is in now in PERFECT SYNCHRONICITY, staggered by exactly one second... Reston following Arlington. Arlington's eyes remain closed in deep concentration... Arlington's lips move silently... and Reston repeats them out loud. Reston's demeanor is now kind... gentle... almost apologetic for his past behavior.
norma		What have you done with our son?
arthur		 Why...
norma		That's not fair.
norma		If Arthur has to do it... then I want you to make it look like a suicide. Arthur shouldn't be punished for something that I did.
arthur		Is there an afterlife? The twins smile cryptically in response to Arthur's question.
arthur		Right. I get it. Reston then turns to the window...
arthur		Tell me this isn't happening, Norma.
norma		This isn't happening... She starts the engine... and they drive off. Arthur watches the parking lot full of MEN reflected back at them in the side-view mirror.
norma		All these years... I've given you the impression that Walter was an accident.
arthur		Yeah... and?
norma		And... it wasn't exactly an accident.
arthur		Why?
norma		Because I was so afraid of losing you to someone prettier than me. Arthur just stares at her... unsure how to respond.
arthur		No... I don't. She manages a smile. A tear rolls down her cheek as she stares out at the pavement and the endless trees lining either side of the interstate.
dana		Did my dad tell you why he loves you, Norma? Norma realizes that she has been involved all along. Blood drains from her nose.
norma		No.
dana		Because you're an amputee. He says that the soul of an amputee leaks out into the wind... searching for the place where there is no longer flesh and bone.
norma		Where is our son?
dana		He's locked in the upstairs bathroom. I think he just woke up. Dana turns away... and begins to walk down the sidewalk in the opposite direction.
walter		Is anyone-there?! He begins clawing at the walls... trying to figure out where he is.
norma		Walter! Norma reaches down and takes her son's hand.
walter		Who's there?! Who's there?!
norma		Walter! It's mom! Can you hear me?!
arthur		We need to kick the door down.
norma		He could get hurt...
walter		Who's there? Who's there? Norma rises to her feet.
norma		Come downstairs, Arthur. She takes his left hand... as he clutches Walter's hand in his right.
suzanne		I'm gonna push it.
arthur		Norma...
norma		Arthur... I love you, and I'm so sorry... I'm so sorry that I did this to us...
arthur		I'm the one who told you to push the button... so don't apologize. He looks out through the window at his back yard... likely for the last time.
norma		I'll be waiting... counting the days until my Arthur comes to see me.
norma		It's going to be harder for you to live than for me to die. Arthur closes his eyes... the noise is excruciating. There is no time to wait any longer.
arthur		Well then.
arthur		Yes. This is Arthur Lewis at 1560 Monument Avenue. I've just shot my wife... can you please send an ambulance? The Operator begins to ask more questions... but Arthur does not listen. He hangs up the phone. The thumping from upstairs has now subsided.
walter		Dad?
arthur		Yes... can you hear me?
walter		Yeah.
arthur		What do you see? Where are you Walter?
walter		I'm in the bathroom...
arthur		Can you see clearly?
walter		Yeah... I can see... everything is bright... but I can see.
arthur		Everything is bright. Everything is bright Walter... you're gonna be okay, buddy.
walter		What's going on?
arthur		You're gonna be okay, buddy. That's all that matters.
arlington		Mrs. Weller... do you have the button unit?
arthur		I'm sorry, Jim. He stares Arthur down as he is put into the back seat of the cruiser. Jim closes the door and goes around to the front of the car. Jim gets behind the wheel and starts the engine. Arthur looks back through the window, toward his house. Upstairs in the MASTER BEDROOM WINDOW... Walter is watching, tears streaming down his face. Arthur reaches up with his hands... cuffed together... and tries his best to wave at his son.
****Dialogues from script :Boxtrolls.txt****

snatcher		 Wake his lordship.
snatcher		 Boxtroll monsters have stolen a child.
lord portley-rind		 No.
snatcher		 They're no doubt picking their teeth with his adorable baby bones by now!
lord portley-rind		A horrible tragedy.  Let's deal with it in the morning!
lord portley-rind		 My Gouda!?
snatcher		 They'll stop at nothing.
lord portley-rind		You're the town exterminator. I'll pay whatever it takes.
snatcher		Oh, I don't want money.
lord portley-rind		A White Hat? You?! Absurd!
snatcher		Alright then. But prepare to say bye bye to your Brie. Cheerio to your Cheddar. Goodbye to your...
lord portley-rind		 Very well. Every boxtroll gone. With proof!
snatcher		 For a white hat?
fish		Hmm...
shoe		Huh?
fish		 Ohhhh...
snatcher		MR. GRISTLE!
snatcher		ACQUIRE THEM!
fish		 "Eggs?"
knickers		AHHH!!!!
fish		 "Eggs?"
fragile		 Eggs.
fish		 "Eggs?!"
oil can		 "He's up there!"
fish		 Eggs?
eggs		Wake up!
eggs		OOOH! Hee hee hee.
oil can		AAAAHHH!
fish		 BOXTROLLS NEVER TAKE OFF THEIR BOXES!
eggs		Ha! Missed me!
shoe		Ahh!
fish		Oooo!
eggs		 Oooh!
fish		 Hide.
eggs		 This way.
winnie		 I'd better warn father.
lord portley-rind		Settle down, men, settle down. Important town business to discuss. First on the docket: more complaints of crumbling bridges.
langsdale		Speaking of crumbling... is that a new blue cheese I see?
broderick		Does smell delicious.
lord portley-rind		I suppose we could do with a nibble first.
broderick		Mmm... Pungent...
langsdale		Complex...
broderick		I'm tasting notes of... plum!
lord portley-rind		 All good fun, but we do have this school funding initiative to vote on. Been sitting here for months. All in favor of--
broderick		--Cutting open the Roquefort next?
all		AYE!!
lord portley-rind		Well, okay, okay. A quick reminder, tomorrow is Trubshaw Baby Remembrance Day.  And we all know what that means... a performance by Madame Frou Frou.
boulanger		A VISION!
broderick		Now there's a woman...
langsdale		... With some cheese on her bones!
lord portley-rind		A lady like that is like a fine brie. Raw. Dangerous.  Maybe a little stinky, but one taste and you'll be begging for... mmm . . .
lord portley-rind		WINIFRED!
winnie		But Father! I saw boxtrolls again!
lord portley-rind		Shoo. Shoo. Shoo.
winnie		They're right outside. They could come rip the flesh off my bones any moment!
lord portley-rind		 Winifred, proper girls should not be obsessing over grotesque monsters.
winnie		I'm not obsessed! I just can't stop imagining them gnawing off my toes and stringing them together as a necklace! Father? Father.
lord portley-rind		 Mmm hmm. Yes.
winnie		 If they kidnapped me and slurped up my intestines like noodles, would you give up your white hat to save me?
lord portley-rind		 Hmm? Um. Yes, Winifred.
winnie		Father!
lord portley-rind		What? Uh... White Hat? Right.  What.. Oh, seems to have been smudged by a bit of brie. Be a dear and have the butler give it a wash, would you?
winnie		BUT--
winnie		I'll give your hat a wash all right.
winnie		Ha!
winnie		Who... who's there?
eggs		Boy?
snatcher		Hmm. Someone's out past curfew. Very dangerous.
winnie		I... I saw a boy.
snatcher		All I saw was filthy boxtroll monsters.
winnie		I can escort myself, thank you.
snatcher		Yes, how did this hat find itself aaaaall the way out here?
winnie		The... wind! Blew it, right out the window. Very windy tonight!
snatcher		Hmmm. Must've died down. Suddenly!
winnie		There's no need to go inside.
snatcher		Oh, but as a gentleman, I insist.
snatcher		 Lord Portley-Rind!
winnie		 Can I have the hat back now?
lord portley-rind		What in Gouda's name is going on? Archibald Snatcher?
snatcher		Deepest apologies, your Lordship. But I found something out in the street that belongs to you.
lord portley-rind		My White Hat!
winnie		Huh?
lord portley-rind		I'll take that... Now, now, Snatcher one doesn't acquire a white hat by simply--  --picking it up... off the street.
langsdale		With Valor!
boulanger		Chivalry!
broderick		Or being rich! That's how I got it.
snatcher		Oh, don't I know it, sirs.
lord portley-rind		Um.. ehhh...
snatcher		When I destroy every last boxtroll in this town, I shall earn my white hat... and join you in the Tasting Room.
lord portley-rind		Good lord.  Not sure who should be more terrified - the boxtrolls or us.
snatcher		I was told the wind had something to do with it.
lord portley-rind		The wind, eh?
winnie		Father, I'm sorry--
snatcher		 Miss Portley-Rind, your Lordship, Sirs. I bid you good night. I'm sure we'll be seeing each other again very, very soon.
lord portley-rind		 Hmmmm.. Winnie...
snatcher		Don't forget. I'm a size six-and-a- half. Order ahead.
winnie		Father, I'm sorry! I didn't mean to. Well, at first I did, but I think this situation offers a great opportunity for a father and daughter to discuss their feelings--
lord portley-rind		 Not another word.
winnie		But Father I really-
lord portley-rind		Bed!
winnie		I did see a boy...
eggs		RUN!
eggs		Grab hold!
eggs		This way!
fish		Egg!
eggs		No!
fish		EGGGGS!
shoe		 Bugs for dinner?
eggs		 Why do we do this, Shoe...
eggs		 Sort of.
eggs		 Wow...
townsperson 1		Outta the way!
photographer		Get yer picture taken with the Trubshaw Baby! A humorous keepsake for this dark and dreadful day!
eggs		AHHHH!!  Eek.
lord portley-rind		Yoo hoo! I'm your biggest fan, Frou Frou.
lord portley-rind		Oof. Very good.
winnie		 Me! Pick me! Me!
townsfolk boy		Excuse me, I'd like to--
winnie		Move aside! Pick me...
winnie		I saw a boy with boxtrolls last night! Maybe your audience would like to hear-- OOF!
eggs		What?!
gristle		RAWR!
crowd		No! / Behind you!/ Look out man! He's behind you!
crowd		Booooo!
eggs		But she's lying.
crowd		Kill those boxtrolls!
townsperson 2		Hey? What the...
winnie		What do you want!
eggs		Wait! I saw you last night.
winnie		You were with the boxtrolls last night?
eggs		Yes.
winnie		 Whoah! I KNEW IT! I KNEW IT! I KNEW IT!
eggs		We went underground and they--
winnie		 Did they drag you down to their hideous caves?
eggs		Huh?
winnie		Were there mountains of baby bones and rivers of blood?
eggs		What?
winnie		Did they eat your family?
eggs		MY FAMILY-
winnie		Did they let you watch?!  I mean, make you watch?!
eggs		I need to find the Men in Red Hats!
winnie		You bit me with your mouth.
eggs		The Men in Red Hats!
winnie		The boxtroll exterminators? They live down on Curd's Way.
eggs		How do I get there?
winnie		Curds Way? Milk turns into it.
eggs		It's not true, you know.  We don't eat babies!
winnie		We? What do you mean we?
snatcher		... stooges  ... can choose to change their lives. Our dreams are in our grasp!
snatcher		YES!
snatcher		Now, gentlemen. What better way to dream than to walk in the shoes of those to whom we aspire? Mr. Pickles, fetch the--
snatcher		Cheese.
snatcher		Men, don your white hats.
snatcher		 "Cheese. Does. To. Me."
snatcher		Marvelous! Then let us begin.
snatcher		Yes! Those things! Etcetera etcetera, big words, chummy banter...
snatcher		 Where is he going? Is he getting more cheese?
snatcher		What?
snatcher		 --With sssophissstication and sssavoir faire!
snatcher		Thisss is where I belong!
snatcher		 Well not here! In this rotten factory!
snatcher		In the tasting room, supping on the choicest cheeses... Everyone in town bowing down to me, like a gentleman, a lord with a white hat!
eggs		Fish!
snatcher		Stand back peasants! You don't touch your King!
snatcher		HE won't let me! That pompous Portley-Rind and his gaggle of giggling sycophants.
eggs		 Fish.
fish		 Ahhh!
fish		Eggggs!
eggs		SHH!
eggs		 Let's go... Come on, come on!
snatcher		 I'm alright. Just give me a hand.
snatcher		You.
snatcher		GIVE ME THAT HAT!
snatcher		AHHHHH! UGH. OOF. GAHHH!
eggs		Eww!  You have got to help me, Fish!
fish		 Okay.
eggs		 Uggggh.
snatcher		 Oh, hello. Where were we?
snatcher		Ah yes... right. Open the workshop Mr. Trout!
snatcher		Huh? Where is the beast?
fish		Huh?
eggs		 But.. you're all alive!?
oil can		Eggs?
boxtroll prisoners		Eggs! Eggs! EGGS!
prisoner		Huh?
eggs		Huh?
pickles		There he is...
snatcher		It can't be. It's not possible.  It's not right!
snatcher		 Don't stand there gawking. Get him!
snatcher		Mr. Trout!
fish		AHHHHHH!
snatcher		TEN YEARS and NOW you show up?!
oil can		Eggggs!
eggs		What are you doing with them?
snatcher		You'll find out soon enough!
snatcher		SHOOT MR. PICKLES! Shoot!
eggs		 Boxtrolls don't hurt anyone! Let them go!
snatcher		Yes, well, I need them. They're my ticket to a white hat, Trubshaw Baby!
winnie		 I knew there was something strange about you!
winnie		 But wait til I tell him! The Trubshaw Baby! Alive!
winnie		What are you doing? Unhand me!
snatcher		Looks like the Boxtrolls have a new victim, miss. And her name is YOU.
snatcher		They're getting away Mr. Gristle!
winnie		 What have you dragged me into?
fish		Eggs! Eggs! Eggs! Eggs!
eggs		RUN!
eggs/winnie		AHHH!
snatcher		 If Lord Portley-Rind finds out that boy is alive, it will ruin everything I've worked for!
snatcher		 Bah...
winnie		 Ohh!
eggs		It's not just us. All the others are alive too!
winnie		 What's going on?!
eggs		 Oil Can, Wheels, all of them!
eggs		Yes!
clocks		 Where are they?
eggs		I don't know, but The Redhats have them building something in their factory.
winnie		 I said what's going on? Why aren't they ripping out our eyeballs and eating our faces?
eggs		I TOLD you, we don't eat people!
winnie		Why do you keep saying "we"? You're not one of them! You're a boy!
eggs		 No I'm not, I'm a boxtroll! Eggs the boxtroll.
winnie		Oh really? Then let's see you fit in your box.
eggs		I... I can't right now.
winnie		Mm hmm.
eggs		(DEFENSIVELY} I'm long-boned.
winnie		You don't talk like them!
eggs		I- I have a speech impediment!
winnie		Your ears aren't pointy!
eggs		 I slept on them funny!
winnie		Oh for goodness sake. Give me your hand!
eggs		Hey!
winnie		See? You're not like them.
eggs		It's not true is it Fish? I'm a boxtroll like you, aren't I?
winnie		See?! I was right!  Now admit it, admit you stole him!
fish		Gurglegurglegurgle!
winnie		 Is he confessing?
eggs		He says I was... given to him.
winnie		Ha, right again! I- ...wait, what?
eggs		I was given to you?
fish		[GURGLE GURGLE]
winnie		What's he saying?
eggs		Oh, sorry. He says a long time ago there was a kind man--
herbert		I've tried adjusting the dongle and there doesn't seem to be any possible solut-- Oh look, you've solved it!
herbert		I-- I'm an inventor, not a killer!
snatcher		Maybe if I hold on to your son...
herbert		Not my boy!
eggs		 They killed him.
winnie		I think that kind man was your father.
eggs		 What's a father?
winnie		Um... well... a father is the one who raises you... looks after you. Loves you.
eggs		Oh! Like Fish.
winnie		Yes...
eggs		You have a father!
winnie		 Well, he doesn't really listen to children.
eggs		He's a father, isn't he?
winnie		You don't know what he's like.
eggs		But he's the only father we have.
winnie		If I agree to help, you have to do exactly as I say.
eggs		I promise!
winnie		All right, first thing's first... off with the box.
boxtrolls		 AAAAAAAAh!
winnie		 Stop that!
eggs		 Me... a proper boy.
winnie		How do we get out of this place?
winnie		AHHHHHHHH!
winnie		Come on, Eggs.
eggs		 Okay.
winnie		For this is to work, there are a few things you need to know. When you meet someone, you must look them in the eye and shake hands.
eggs		Oh, right.
winnie		Then you say,  "It's a pleasure to meet you."
eggs		 "It's a pleasure to meet you."
winnie		And you say that even if you're not pleased to meet them.
eggs		Which one is your father?
winnie		 Lord Portley-Rind. He's usually making speeches about cheese.
winnie		Hello, mommy dear.
lady cynthia		 Oh. Who is this?
eggs		I'm Eggs?
winnie		 --Bert. Eggsbert. Is a normal name... that he has.
lady cynthia		Eggsbert. How nice, I... umm, adore names from the bible.
eggs		Its a pleasure to meet you.
winnie		No, no. You kiss a lady's hand. 
lady cynthia		 Darling, it's time to take off that dress and... burn it.
winnie		 Don't move. I'll be right back.
eggs		But which ones are the ladies?!
lady broderick		Oh!
sir broderick		Ahem!
eggs		 It's a pleasure to meet you.
sir broderick		Very good.
eggs		Even if I don't mean it!
sir broderick		 What? Well, I never!
eggs		And, it's a pleasure to meet you. 
lady broderick		Nooo!
eggs		I was right!
eggs		 Yum. Mmmthatsgood.
eggs		 Huh? Oh!
lord portley-rind		Distinguished members of the cheese guild. We were here to celebrate the successful fund-raising for a new children's hospital! But my fellow White Hats and I decided the money would be better spent on this. I present: THE BRIEHEMOTH!
eggs		YOU'RE SNATC--
sir broderick		Hello, Frou Frou!
eggs		You're a liar! When I tell Winnie's father the truth, he'll-- OOF!
eggs		What?!
sir langsdale		Yoo hoo, Madame Frou Frou... You promised your snookums a dance!
winnie		There you are.
eggs		 We have to get to your father!
winnie		You can't just cut through.
eggs		We'll WHAT?
winnie		Like this. One two three... one two three.
eggs		You made me get out of my box!
winnie		With your feet, silly!
eggs		Snatcher is here.
winnie		Who? Where?
sir broderick		My turn, Madame.
winnie		 Frou Frou?
eggs		Winnie!
sir broderick		 Ah ha ha ha!
lady cynthia		 Ooh!
winnie		Uh oh!  EGGS LOOK OUT!
eggs		Ahhh!
lord portley-rind		What is going on here?
lord portley-rind		NO NO NO NO NOOOO!
lord portley-rind		What have you done!?
eggs		Lord Winnie's Father...
lord portley-rind		Do you know how expensive that cheese was?
eggs		What?!
lord portley-rind		 We might as well have built a children's hospital!
winnie		Did you hear a word he said?!
lord portley-rind		 Not now.
winnie		BUT FATHER--
lord portley-rind		 Have you any idea how long it will take my men to fish it out of the river?!
langsdale		Ahh. What?
boulanger		Eww... the river?
eggs		If you won't listen to me, ask Snatcher himself.
crowd		 GASP!/ Oh my!
lady cynthia		 Poor woman.
sir langsdale		 For shame.
crowd men		How rude! / The lad's fuddled! / An outrage! / The very thought!  I saw him bite a bug on a cracker!/ He must hate cheese! / He's a mad man! / I believe her's wearing a lamp shade as a sleeve!
crowd ladies		Nasty boy! / Oh, he's awful!  That's the one who crawled under my dress! / I knew he was up to no good the second he goosed me. / My husband is angry so I am too!
lord portley-rind		You insult our guest of honor?
eggs		 A proper boy.
winnie		He is with me father.
lord portley-rind		You know this... creature?
winnie		He's my friend. What he said is TRUE--
lord portley-rind		Enough!
winnie		But...
lord portley-rind		Winifred!
eggs		But he's not a...
lord portley-rind		Leave my house. Now!
snatcher		Zees parties are so confusing. No?
lord portley-rind		There, there. You poor, poor dear.
winnie		Eggs, wait!
eggs		 You said fathers were supposed to help. That they took care of kids.
winnie		 Well, they're supposed to.
eggs		People are just mean and selfish. They're monsters.
winnie		Not all of us. You aren't.
eggs		Well, I don't want to be a boy anymore.
winnie		Eggs...
eggs		And, Winnie, I really do mean it.
boxtrolls		Eggs!
eggs		We have to leave the cavern.
shoe		Eggs?
eggs		 I said, we have to leave now!
boxtrolls		AHHHHHHHH!!!!!
snatcher		How's that for an entrance!
eggs		AHH!
snatcher		My, my, what a surprise. Don't look like your little friends wanna run, does it?  How strange, how peculiar. No, wait, it's exactly as I expected!
eggs		You have to get up. Please!
snatcher		NEVER GONNA HAPPEN, TRUBSHAW!
eggs		No!
snatcher		Give up, Trubshaw! Boxtrolls lost looooong time ago. These miserable pests will never be a match for a man with dream!  MR. GRISTLE!
fish		Eggs? Eggs?
snatcher		ACQUIRE THEM!
eggs		 What the...?
prisoner		When I'm good I get jelly. I like jelly. JELLY!
eggs		 Who are you?
prisoner		Who am I? Who are you?
eggs		 I don't know.
prisoner		Boy? Or Boxtroll?
eggs		 He's my, you're my... are you my father?
herbert		JELLY!
snatcher		He was once. Won't get much out of him now, though. A decade hanging upside down scrambled his noodles good.
eggs		No, no no, don't hide. Fish! Shoe! RUN! Get up, get up and run! Sparky. Sweets, run!
snatcher		Yell all you want, boy. They ain't gonna run. You can't change nature.
herbert		Yes. I see it now! A mutation of nature. Self-imposed metamorphosis.  Boxboy! You did it!
eggs		I don't understand.
herbert		You changed your nature. Tell them.
eggs		I tried. They won't listen.
herbert		You did it. You made you. Tell them. Tell them. Tell them!
eggs		Father?
herbert		Son! They can change. They can do it! Tell them.
eggs		Fish, Fish, everyone! Listen! I'm a boxtroll and I stopped hiding, so you can too! Stand up for yourselves! We can fight back! Don't be afraid anymore. Sparky! Fragile! Get up! Get up and fight!
snatcher		Well, good speech.
eggs		No! No! No! NOOOOOO!  Fish, Shoe, Sparky...
herbert		Look what you did. Look what you did! 
eggs		 Yeah. Yeah look what I did. They're crushed.
snatcher		 All but one.
townsfolk boy		Whoah! What is it?
female townsfolk 1		It's Snatcher!
snatcher		Fear not, the monsters have been vanquished! Your streets are SAFE!
female townsfolk 1		That's incredible.
snatcher		Join me! Your purger of pests! Your white knight who has taken back the night!
snatcher		Lord Portley-Riiiiind!
lord portley-rind		Mr. Snatcher, what the devil is this?
snatcher		 Show him lads.
snatcher		Your lordship, I said I would not rest until I caught every last boxtroll and I am a man of my word.
winnie		EGGS!
snatcher		 I'd say that deserves a white hat, don't you?
lord portley-rind		Yes, well. I'm not sure... We'd have to take a vote...
crowd		 WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT!
lord portley-rind		There's probably some, uh, paperwork... then have a hat shipped in...
snatcher		No. Methinks a deed of this magnitude deserves something a bit more... significant.
lord portley-rind		My hat?
crowd		 WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT!
boy		WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT!
male townsfolk		WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT! WHITE HAT!
lord portley-rind		 All right. All right. As soon as that boxtroll is dead, you may have... my... hat.
lord portley-rind		Yes. And then we can eat cheese together.  In the Tasting Room.
snatcher		Do the honors.
snatcher		 Musician, drum-roll!
lord portley-rind		Repeat after me: With this hat, I, state your name...
snatcher		With this hat, I, Archibald Penelope Snatcher...
lord portley-rind		With profound esteem for dairy and dairy products... proudly swear to uphold the dignity of the White Hat.
winnie		Father! Father!
lord portley-rind		Not now, Winifred!
winnie		STOP! STOP!
winnie		Your JOBS? Are you pest exterminators or evil henchmen?!
winnie		You don't have to do this!
winnie		 Sure, yes, whatever! Just let him go!
eggs		 Huh?
winnie		 STOP IT!
herbert		I like Jelly!
winnie		FISH!
lord portley-rind		What is going on here?!
snatcher		I... I am befuddled as your lordship! I... I crushed them myself!
lord portley-rind		Evidently not! That was the closest you will ever come to a White Hat.  I hope you enjoyed it.
eggs		 You're alive! You're all alive! But how?! I saw you crushed!
winnie		 AHEM?
eggs		Oh... sorry. He says they were hiding and then they heard me yelling at them...
herbert		Boxboy! Look what you did!
eggs		You got out of your boxes! You did it!
workman a		The boy is friends with a boxtroll?!
shopkeeper lady		But boxtrolls are monsters.
winnie		Boxtrolls aren't monsters. They never ate the Trubshaw Baby, he's right there with Fish and-- 
eggs		My father.
winnie		Your father?
herbert		 Look what you did.
eggs		You were right. Thank you.
herbert		 Jelly.
shopkeeper lady		Herbert Trubshaw?
shopkeeper lady		Alive?
shopkeeper b		Snatcher lied!
lord portley-rind		He lied to us and to poor Madame Frou Frou!
lord portley-rind		Why is he talking like Madame Frou - Oh my God!  I regret so much.
snatcher		 I'll take my white hat now.
lord portley-rind		AHHHH!
crowd		AHHHH!
eggs		No more hiding, right?
eggs		 RIGHT?
eggs		 You built that thing! You can take it apart!
snatcher		Loooord POORTLEY-RIIIIND!  Come out, come out, come out!
sweets		 Chmeey! @#$%&!
eggs		 Tear it down!
snatcher		Get your grimy paws off of my machine!
eggs		 We need to put out the fire!
lord portley-rind		 AHH!
snatcher		You vile little brat!
winnie		Ooh!
winnie		Over here!
snatcher		You ungrateful stooges!
snatcher		Mine!
lord portley-rind		Mine!
herbert		JELLY!
lord portley-rind		It's not funny! No, no, no!
snatcher		 Come back, you loony!
herbert		Jelly!
eggs		Whoops!
snatcher		Stop destroying my indestructible machine!
eggs		Fish, grab hold!
eggs		That's right! Pull it over there!
snatcher		YOU FILTHY MONSTER!
eggs		AHHHH!
fish		 IT DOESN'T REACH!
winnie		IT DOESN'T REACH! PULL IT HARDER!
snatcher		 You think you can win and live happily ever after! They'll never accept the likes of us!
winnie		ALL TOGETHER!
eggs		I'm nothing like you. You're the monster!
snatcher		MONSTER?
sir langsdale		We got the cheese.  Lord... Portley-... Rind?
fish		 Eggs? EGGS!
crowd		YEEEEAAAAYYY!
snatcher		RAWR!!!
crowd		 EEEEWWW!
lord portley-rind		Winnifred!
snatcher		 GIF. ME. MY. HAT.
lord portley-rind		Well... what about Broderick's hat? It's just as white and fluffy.
snatcher		YEAH! ARSHBALL SHNASHER, YOOFINE'LY DONE IT!
snatcher		Men, don your White Hatsh...
eggs		Please, Snatcher, let her go. You don't have to do this--
snatcher		ISH TASHTING TIME!
lord portley-rind		I present the tastiest cheese known to man. Made from the milk of the male, lactating fruit bats in Borneo. Aged for centuries in SECRET--
snatcher		 Shut up! Enough shtalling.
lord portley-rind		Oh, my Winnikens!
snatcher		You bit me... wif yor... MOUTH?!
eggs		 Don't do it. It won't change who you are.
snatcher		I have made me, boy.
lord portley-rind		My little angel. My weird little angel.
eggs		Winnie!
winnie		Huh?
eggs		 Where's Fish?
winnie		 Uhh.
sir langsdale		It hasn't worked right in years!
eggs		You guys seen Fish?
sir langsdale		Oh. I... I don't think that's a good idea.
eggs		Have you seen Fish?
sweets		 Mushurgle, mushmoogle, mushmushgurgle...
fish		Eggs!
eggs		Look what I found!
herbert		Brilliant, son!
eggs		And now we go like this.
herbert		Ahh. I've missed so much.
****Dialogues from script :Boyhood.txt****

mom		Hey, love bug. You ready?
mason		Yeah.     Hey, guess what, Mom?
mom		What?
mason		I figured out where wasps come from.
mom		Oh, yeah?    Where?
mason		Well, I think it must be if you flick a rock into the air just right, it'll turn into a wasp.
mom		Dang...
mason		Yep.
mom		That's cool.
mom		So how was your day at school?
mason		Fine.
mom		Hey, I had a good meeting with Miss Butler this time. I kinda liked her.
mason		What did she say?
mom		Well... she said that you weren't turning in your homework assignments. And I told her, "I know he does them, 'cause I check them every night." She said she found a big chunk of them crumpled up at the bottom of your backpack.
mason		She didn't ask for 'em.
mom		Well, baby, she doesn't have to. You're supposed to turn them in. And she said you're still staring out the window all day.
mason		Not all day.
mom		And she said that you destroyed her pencil sharpener.
mason		Not on purpose.
mom		Wait, she said that you crammed a bunch of rocks in it.
mason		I thought if it could sharpen pencils, maybe we could sharpen rocks.
mom		 Well, what were you gonna do with a bunch of sharpened rocks?
mason		I was trying to make arrowheads for my rock collection.
mom		Hm.
mason		Dude, when's my turn?
tommy		I don't know.
tommy		Samantha!
samantha		Oh!    Tommy!    Is Mason down there?
tommy		Yeah.
samantha		Well, tell him he has to come home for dinner.
mom		Hey.
ted		Hey, sweetie. Why aren't you ready? Hey, Mason.
mason		Hey, Ted.
ted		Come on, come on, hurry up.      Let's go.
mom		What time is it?
ted		It's nine.     Let's go, let's go.
mom		Okay, I meant to call you, 'cause Janice flaked out. I don't have a sitter.
ted		Why didn't you call somebody else?
mom		Well, I can't get a baby-sitter now, it's nine o'clock. But you're welcome to hang out with us.
ted		Well, no. I mean we have plans. The guys are expecting me.
mom		Well... you can go.
mom		Yeah.   Yes.
ted		All right.
mom		It's okay.
mom		Don't call my kids mistakes!   Don't!
ted		I'm not responsible for your life choic-- I didn't call your kids--
mom		You said, "Your respons-- your mistakes in your life," pointing at my kids.
ted		I know what I said, you know what, and immediately you use your kids again.
samantha		 "Oops, I did it again... I played with your heart. Got lost in the game. Oh baby, baby..."
samantha		"You see my problem is this. I'm dreaming away. Wishing that heroes truly exist. I cry watching the day. Can't you see I'm a fool in so many ways..."
mason		Quit!   Mom!
samantha		"But to lose all my senses-- that is..."
mom		What the hell is going on in here?!
samantha		 He's throwing things at me...
mom		Mason! Do not throw things at your sister!
mason		She's faking, she hit me first!!
mom		Listen, both of you! I am going back to bed. I don't wanna hear another peep out of here for an hour. Go to sleep.
mason		 Faker!
mason		 Ohh!
tommy		 Look what I found in the street!
mason		Dude!
tommy		I know, right?  Look at those.
mason		Hm, look at those!
boys		 Ohh!!
mom		So listen, guys, I wanna talk to you about something, and you might not like this idea at first but... we're moving to Houston.
mason		When?
mom		Well, soon. We should be out by the first, so we don't have to pay two rents next month.
samantha		No, Mother, we're not moving. Nope, nope, sorry Mom. Nope. Nope.
mom		Samantha, I have to go back to college so I can make us a better living.
samantha		Fine, Mother. You can do whatever you want but 
mason		What about our friends?
mom		Oh, baby, we can e-mail them or write. We can come back to visit. And guess what?
mason		Mom, do you still love Dad?
mom		I still love your father... but that doesn't mean it was healthy for us to stay together.
mason		What if after we move he's trying to find us and he can't?
mom		Oh, that won't be a problem. He can call Grandma and she'll tell him or he can call Information. We won't be hard to find.
mason		Is he still in Alaska?
mom		Well, that's what your uncle says.
mason		Probably taming polar bears or something.
mom		Yeah... well, I hope they're taming him.
mom		Here, wanna help me out?
mason		Sure.
mom		Okay. Take this paint... very carefully... and paint any little smudge or mark or anything on the baseboard there, behind the door, and all around the doorways on the inside.
samantha		 Althea? I'm gonna be sending Sailor Scout instructions. Email, and write back telling me how the other scouts are doing. Well, because you're the leader now.
mom		Okay, let's go, 'cause I wanna get there before it gets dark.
samantha		Goodbye yard, goodbye crepe myrtle, goodbye mailbox. Goodbye box of stuff Mommy won't let us take with us but we don't wanna throw away. Goodbye house, I'll never like mommy as much for making us move.
mom		Samantha! Why don't you say goodbye to that little horse shit attitude? Okay? 'Cause we're not taking that in the car.
mason		Goodbye old lady who listens to rock music and rides a motorcycle.
samantha		Eeeee!   Don't!
mom		Hey! Hey, what's happening back there? Stop, put the barrier up.
samantha		Ahh!   Stop!    No!
mom		Hey, put the pillow between you. Make a barrier, come on. Stop. We're gonna play a game called The Game of Silence. Whoever can stay quiet for the longest period of time wins. You guys think you can do that? Okay, go!
mason		I am!
samantha		...I affatay servay yoohay.
mason		Speak English! Shut up. Mom! She's speaking that stupid language again!
mom		Samantha!
samantha		I was speaking perfectly clear English, Mother. You know, he's a little slow in the head. He did officially flunk first grade.
mom		Sit your butt down.
samantha		Yes sir, Mother sir!
mom		All right, listen up guys. Grandma's gonna pick you up after school. Your dad is in town for the day so you're gonna spend the afternoon with him.
samantha		Hmm.
mason		Is he moving back?
mom		I don't know.
samantha		We haven't seen him in about eighty years.
mom		Like... a year and a half.
mason		 Ha-ha.
samantha		Oh please...
mom		Can we please eat, here? The bus is coming. Who wants syrup?
mason		No.
teacher		And why not?
mason		'Cause I didn't finish it.
teacher		Well, it's time to finish it.
mason		Just a minute.
teacher		No, let's do Apple Quit.
samantha		Yeah, well, it doesn't have a plus but... oh well.
grandma		Oh.
samantha		And then um, that's my report on lizards...
grandma		Oh, let me see your pictures.
samantha		And then, um... Oh yeah, these are my pictures.
grandma		What is that?
samantha		Well, that's called a dewlap.
grandma		A dewlap, okay.
samantha		Oh yeah, this is a math test.
grandma		Oh, "A" again.
mason		Okay.
samantha		Daddy!    Hi!
dad		Oh my!    Look at you, you're so big!
dad		Yeah! Alright.     Hey, Catherine, how are you?
grandma		Mase.    I'm good.
dad		Good to see you.
dad		What time should I have these rascals back?
dad		Aw, you know what, why don't I take them over to their mom's?
grandma		No, that's okay. She's expecting me.
dad		Oh no, that's alright. You guys know where it is, don't you?
samantha		Mm.   Yeah.
dad		All right, I'll do it.     It's no problem.
grandma		I don't think that's such a good idea.
dad		Look, it's no problem.     Alright?
grandma		 Okay...
dad		You guys ready to go?
dad		Let's do it, go!
samantha		Oh yeah.
grandma		You got backpacks, your purse. Homework. Go to the bathroom.
dad		Can't believe how big they are.
grandma		Yeah.    Time is goin' by.
dad		Mm. Must be nice for you, having 'em here in Houston.
grandma		I love it, yeah. I'm volunteering at their school.
dad		Oh yeah?   What you doin' over there?
grandma		I'm in the library.         You know, reading to the little ones.
dad		Huh.    Great.
grandma		So -- Alaska, huh?
dad		Yeah.
grandma		Are you back?
dad		We'll see.   How's Liv?
grandma		She's a busy girl. Yeah. She's back in school. But she's working, and single parenting... a lot to juggle.
dad		You guys got everything, huh?
dad		Alright, say goodbye to your grandmother.
dad		Alright, let's roll. Now wait a second. You're not the type of kids who like presents, are ya?
samantha		Yes!
dad		Naw, you don't --
mason		Yeah!
samantha		'Course we are!
dad		Really?   Let's do it!
mason		I call front seat!
samantha		I wanted the front seat, though.
dad		Alright. Well, Mason gets it on the way there and Samantha gets it on the way back, huh? Hop in there.
dad		Seat belts.     Alright.
samantha		Yay!
dad		Yeah!    Alright!
samantha		Daddy!
dad		 Come on. Let 'em know who you are, buddy. Let 'em know who you are.
mason		Wish we could use the bumpers.
dad		Bumpers are for kids. You know, what're you, two years old? You don't want the bumpers. Life doesn't give you bumpers.
mason		Last time I went bowling we had bumpers and it was a lot more fun!
dad		You don't want the bumpers, alright? You bowl a strike with the bumpers and it doesn't mean anything. Trust me. Just lay it out on the lane. One, two, three and...
samantha		Yay!   Great job!
dad		Get out there, girl, get out there!
samantha		That's a quarter.
dad		What's a quarter?
samantha		You said a-s-s.
dad		Oh, sorry.   My bad.
samantha		And my teacher says it's a good war, because it's better to be safe than sorry.
dad		That's what they're teaching you in school? Alright, listen to me. Listen to your father, okay? That is the lie. That's the big lie. Iraq had nothing to do with what happened at the World Trade Center. You know that, right?
samantha		I guess.
dad		Alright. Who are you gonna vote for next fall, MJ?
mason		I don't know.
samantha		He can't vote. He's not eighteen.
dad		Yeah, oh -- alright, who would you vote for?
mason		Kerry?
dad		Anybody but Bush!   Okay?
samantha		Are you gonna move back?
dad		Uh... I'm plannin' on it.   You know, I gotta find a job.
mason		Are you and mom gonna get back together?
dad		I don't know. That's not, uh... entirely up to me, you know?
samantha		I remember when I was six, you and mom were fighting like mad. You were yelling so loud and she was crying.
dad		That's what you remember, huh?
samantha		Yep.
dad		You don't remember the trips to Galveston, camping in Big Bend, all the fun we had?
samantha		Nope.
dad		You ever get mad at your mother?
samantha		Yeah.
samantha		Yeah.
dad		Yeah.    You ever yell at him?
samantha		Oh yeah.
dad		Yeah. Doesn't mean you don't love him, right?
samantha		Mmm...
dad		Look, the same thing happens when you're grown up, alright? You... You know, you get mad at people. You know, it's not a big deal.
mason		What'd you do in Alaska?
dad		I worked on a boat for a while.     Um, I tried to write some music.
mason		Did you see any polar bears?
dad		I'm sorry. Here, take a dollar, alright? Keep the change. 
mason		I got that one at Dripping Springs...
mason		And um, my friend Rodney gave me that one.
mason		And I bought that one.
dad		You bought this one?
mason		Yeah.
dad		You found this at Dripping Springs?
mason		Uh-huh!
dad		Wow!    What else do you got?
mason		Well, um, these are snake vertebrae.
dad		Snake vertebrae? That's disgusting. Huh? Mason, I don't want you collecting snake vertebrae anymore.
mason		Yeah!    Yeah, yeah, yeah, it is.
samamtha		Oh, Dad! Um, I forgot to show you these, um, these basketball pictures.
dad		You're on a basketball team?
samamtha		Yeah!
dad		Wow!    Check you out!
mason		Yeah, and these are-- these are beaver claws.
dad		Beaver claws?
samantha		You see, that's McKinney, that's Meg, and that Gem. They're all my friends --
mason		...And this is dried Canadian grass...
dad		Uh-huh.   What position do you play?
samantha		Um, guard.
mason		This is dried Canadian grass... And, and uh...
dad		Uh-huh.   Wait, you scoring any points?
samantha		Well, about eight or ten a game.
dad		Eight or ten a game?     That is awesome!
samantha		Yeah!
mason		Once she didn't score any and she cried!
dad		You cried?
samantha		Well, only a little bit.
dad		Awww.
mom		Hello!
samantha		Oh, Mason, Mom's home!
mason		Mom's home!
dad		Hey, Mom's home.
samantha		Mom, hi!
mom		Hey.
samantha		Oh, look at this owl Daddy gave me! Isn't it cool? See, its head spins! And look at this bracelet! It was made by Indians in Alaska.
mason		And Mom, Daddy made this cool hand carved grizzly bear and this tiki.
mom		It's a totem. Wow.
samantha		And guess what else? We went bowling and I made four strikes!
mason		Yeah, and we got to ride around in Dad's car!
dad		Hey, Liv.
mom		Hey.
dad		I know you wanted me to drop them off at your mom's. I just thought it'd be easier if I brought 'em over here.
mom		Well, it really screwed up my plans.
mason		Well, we just wanted to show him our rooms.
samantha		Yeah.
mom		Did you guys eat anything?
samantha		Well, we had some french fries at the bowling alley.
mom		Did you do your homework or...
mason		No.
samantha		Not yet.
mom		Okay. Can I talk to you outside for a second?
dad		Yeah. Sure.  They had more than french fries.
mason		Do you think he's gonna spend the night?
bill		Ohh.
mom		Mason, this is Dr. Welbrock.
bill		Your son. Now see, I thought this was a boy genius who was taking my college course.
mom		He wasn't feeling well today, so I thought I'd bring him with me.
bill		Ah! No fever. It's a con job. I can tell because I have a nine year old son, he pulls this all the time. Same kind of deal. Hey, you play soccer?
mason		Mm, no.
bill		Neither does my boy. He hates soccer. He likes computers. My 11-year-old daughter, loves soccer. Who can figure? Hey, maybe we can get all you guys together sometime, huh?
mom		Maybe, yeah.     Well, you ready to go?
mason		Yeah.
bill		Nice to meet you, Mason.
mason		Nice to meet you, too.
bill		And thanks for coming to my class.
mom		Hm?
bill		Nice kid.
mom		Thanks.
bill		So you think, uh, Grandma might be available for a little baby-sitting?
bill		Really?   Well, great.
grandma		Hey kids, they're here!
kids		Oh, they're home, they're home!
grandma		Hurry!    Hurry!
mom		Hey!
kids		Mom!   Daddy!
bill		Oh!    We're here!     Hey, we've returned!
bill		Samantha, Mason, look -- Thank you. That's very nice.
mom		 Hey guys!
bill		 Hi, Mom. How are you?
bill		 They give you any trouble?
mindy		Samantha and I made it all ourselves.
mindy		No, not at all!
bill		That's good... Oh, pass out the goodies.
mom		This is for the girls, this is for the girls...
bill		 Don't worry, we got you some absinthe or something.
grandma		Oh, let's pour it.
mom		You take this big elevator up, and when we got to the top, we flew a paper airplane off.
samantha		Oh, did you guys kiss under the Bridge of Sighs?
mom		Yes.
bill		Yes, we did.
mindy		Hey, Mom, can we see your wedding ring?
mason		I wish we could've gone to Europe.
randy		Yeah.
bill		Yeah, we'll go as a family next time. But you didn't miss much, really. We just stayed in the hotel room the whole time playing video games.
mason		Really?
bill		And the hotels are really small and really old. Squeaky.
waiter		Can I get you anything else? Would you like to see a dessert menu?
bill		 Yes, uh, please, another bottle of wine.
mason		 Um, Coke.
mom		Um, you know what? Mason, you're okay with water. No more Cokes.  Thank you.
randy		Not quite yet.
bill		Well, did you work on it? I mean, did you build anything, or plan anything, or..?
randy		A little.
bill		 Did he work on it at all, Mindy?
mindy		No.
bill		 Did he sit around playing video games with Mason the whole time?
mindy		 Yeah.
bill		Mm. You were supposed to finish that by the time I got back. Remember? Hey.
neighborhood boy		Grievous is the best, man.
mason		Yoda!   Yoda, man.
randy		No, Yoda is!
neighborhood boy		He has four arms.
mason		Yoda!   Represent.
mindy		I hate Ms. Billingsly. Everybody's been saying she's lesbian.
neighborhood girl		She is.   She hit on Stacy.
mindy		Man, that's gross.
samantha		Think it's true?
neighborhood girl		She's always walking in the locker room.
randy		I think I still have a couple of those--
paul		Damn.   Fuck.     Go to hell.   Ass.
mason		Uh!    Blew you up.
randy		Aw heck, man. That was not fair.
mason		No, actually it was. That's like the fairest thing ever.
randy		Ugh.
mason		Oh, once again I take you down.
mason		Three Musketeers?
boys		Second word.
randy		Um... hood?
mason		Big hair?     Uh. Robin Hood!
bill		 Ah!
mason		Hey, you can't use props!
bill		Hey, hey, hey, hey. Cut it out. Hey, uh-- Judges speak: No props. No props. Can't use props. You can do it without that. Think, think, think.
mom		The gathered? Folded.
mindy		Uh...
mom		Wrinkling clothes... A Wrinkle In Time!
samantha		Dementors!
emcee		 Front of the line, are you ready?
emcee		Let's go!    Whoo!!
mindy		Thank you.
man		Next.
samantha		Thanks.
bill		 He always swings too hard.
bill		This is just in case we have guests this weekend.
randy		He always says that.      But we never have guests.
bill		Samantha, I think I heard your dad pull up.
samantha		Oh, alright.
bill		You guys finish your chores?
mindy		Not quite.
samantha		Just about.
bill		How 'bout the dusting, Sam?
samantha		I haven't done that yet.
bill		Well, I saw you working on your art project. You mean you had time to finish your little art project but you didn't have time to finish your chores? I thought we talked about that.
mindy		Dad, it's fine. I can finish the dusting. I have all day here.
bill		No, it's not fine,    Mindy. You have your own chores to    do and Sam has hers to do. Huh?      It's simple! Poor choice there,    Sam. Hurry up.
bill		 Mason! Your dad's here...
mason		No.
bill		Is the job complete?
bill		Okay.   Go.
mason		Bye, Mom.
mom		 Bye, baby. I love you.
samantha		Bye, Mama.
mom		 Bye, honey. Have fun with your dad.
mom		Right! Okay, guys, you had this conversation, you understand?
bill		Thank you. I just wanted you to back me up on that so I'm not the only one yelling at them all the time.
mom		Okay, I back you up.      You guys got that?
bill		Well, they don't hear it, you know. It goes in one ear and out the other.
samantha		But Dad, I mean, dusting is pointless.
bill		It's not pointless, you just don't like to do it.
samantha		But I mean, who dusts anymore?
bill		You do when we ask you to! And don't -- Olivia, don't let her back-talk me in front of the other kids, please. Thank you.
mom		Samantha, please...
samantha		Whatever!
bill		I'm sorry, but I thought we talked about it. You have to draw a line, you have to back it up.
mom		Okay. It's just... you have so many lines Bill. Everything's a line.
dad		Hey, Randy!
randy		Hey!
dad		Hey, you two. How you doin'?        Oh.
mason		Shotgun.
dad		Here, let me get this bag here.      You doin' okay, darlin'?
samantha		Yeah.
dad		Yeah?    Ah.   What about you, cowboy?
mason		Pretty good.
dad		Yeah?    Alright.    Let's roll!
dad		You guys ready for the big game?
samantha		Yeah.
dad		Sam, who are the Astros playing tonight?
samantha		I don't know.
dad		Milwaukee Brewers. Alright, get to know 'em, get to hate 'em. Mase! How you been, huh? How was your week?
mason		Pretty good.
dad		Yeah?   What you been up to?
mason		Not much.
mason		Yeah.
dad		Yeah, he's still your best friend?
mason		Yeah, I guess.
dad		Okay.  How 'bout you? How was your week?
samantha		Fine.
samantha		Nothin' really.
dad		You um, you still working on that sculpture project?
samantha		Almost finished.
samantha		Nothing.
dad		Alright, no-no-no-no-no. Nope, that is not how we're going to talk to one another. Alright? Now, I will not be that guy. You can not put me in that category, alright? The biological father who I spend every other week with and I make polite conversation, you know, while he drives me places and buys me shit. No! Talk to me.
samantha		Dad, these questions are kind of hard to answer.
dad		What is so hard to answer about what sculpture are you making?
samantha		It's abstract.
dad		Okay. Okay, that's good. See, that's, I didn't know that. I didn't know you were even interested in abstract art.
samantha		I'm not.   They make us do it.
mason		But Dad, I mean why is it all on us though? You know, what about you? How was your week? You know, who do hang out with? Do you have a girlfriend? What have you been up to?
dad		I see your point.
mason		Hey, check this out.
samantha		That would be a... That would be a Magnificent Owl. Caligo Atreus.
dad		What's that one?    Look at this.
dad		What kind is that?
samantha		That looks like a Zebra Longwing.
dad		Alright.
samantha		Cool.
dad		This one's incredible.     That's the owl one, right?
samantha		Yeah.   Magnificent Owl.
dad		I think he went pee-pee on you, bud.
mason		One, two, three, four, five...
dad		Ahaa! Ahh! Get away from me! Get away from me! Get your sister -- Ahh!
dad		Yo, Mase, look at me here. Make a diamond with your hands, alright? Fingers and thumbs. Keep your hands soft. Hey, Sam.
dad		Down!   Set!    Hut!   Ahhhh!
samantha		Yes!
dad		Don't let her get -- No no no no no!
mason		Dad, do you have a job?
dad		Ha!   Why would you ask me that?
mason		I don't know. Mom wanted to know and I didn't know what the answer was.
dad		Mom wanted to know. Alright. Well, you can tell mom that I just happen to have passed my second actuarial exam, alright? So... you tell her that. How's she doing?
samantha		Great.
dad		She finishing school?
samantha		Yep, all 'A's.
dad		All 'A's huh? Like mother, like daughter, right?
samantha		Hi, Jimmy.
jimmy		Hey, Samantha!
mason		Hey, what's up, Jimmy?
jimmy		What's goin' on, Mason, man?
mason		Astros won.
jimmy		You went to the game?
dad		What, I'm the only one with any arms around here? Nobody else can carry anything, huh? Help their old man out?
mason		What you watching?
dad		Aw, come on Jimmy, man! You knew the kids were comin' this weekend.
jimmy		I'm sorry, muffin.
dad		Yeah, don't "muffin" me, alright? Don't put me in that position. Alright, I'm not your fuckin' Tony Randall.
samantha		Dad, it's always a mess.
dad		It was not a mess this morning. Okay?
jimmy		I mowed the lawn.
dad		Oh yeah, great.
jimmy		 No.
samantha		Sure.
dad		"Well Saturday night was a lunar eclipse, I sang 'em a song, went somethin' like this: Well go to sleep, my weary babies, Let the sounds roll on by, Tonight we're safe here in Houston, With this, your daddy's lullaby. Your mother's got a new husband now, He seems alright, I wonder if he's readin' them stories, And kissin' them goodnight? Well babysitters say they miss me, I know I shouldn't hope it's true, The teacher says my son paints pictures of a family all in blue, She says she caught him whispering to the window, Will Daddy please come home? I know I could call him up, but what if his mother answers the phone?
dad		You brush your teeth?
samantha		What?
samantha		Oh.   Yeah.   Yeah.
dad		You gonna fall asleep with those things in your head?
samantha		Maybe.
dad		Yeah well, try not to, alright?
dad		You want me to turn off the light?
samantha		Sure.
dad		Okay, goodnight Sam.
samantha		'Night, dad.
jimmy		 Goodnight, Sam.
samantha		Goodnight, Jimmy.
dad		Hey... that was a fun day, right?
samantha		Yeah it was.     Sorry.
dad		Why?
samantha		That Mason had to be there, you know.
dad		 Goodnight.
mason		Dad? There's no like... real magic in the world, right?
dad		What do you mean?
mason		You know, like elves and stuff. People just made that up.
dad		Well, I don't know. I mean what makes you thinks that, that elves are any more magical than something like... like a whale? 
mason		Yeah. But like... right this second, there's like no... elves in the world, right?
dad		No.   Technically no elves.
dad		Love you guys.
mason		See you, Dad.
dad		Alright. Be well. Okay. Have a great week. Sam, I'll see you next weekend?
samantha		Alright.   Oh yeah, that's right.
dad		What?
samantha		Susie has a birthday party next Saturday.
dad		A sleepover?
samantha		Yeah.
dad		Alright.   I'll talk to your mom about it.
samantha		Bye, dad.
dad		Don't worry about it, okay?      Have a great week.
samantha		Had a great time.
dad		Okay.
neighborhood boy		Aw, man. How do you guys not know how to do this? I'll make you some bookmarks. Just a second. Shit, guys.
mindy		Randy, and Mason, Dad wants you guys downstairs.
randy		Why?
mindy		You're getting haircuts.
bill		This is gonna look so much better. You're gonna look like a man instead of like a little girl. You're takin' the eyebrows off next, right, Byron?
randy		Mason, we're leavin'.
samantha		You're not sick.
mom		Bye, guys.
kids		Bye, mom.
mom		Where is Mason?
randy		He doesn't feel too good. I don't think he's going to school.
samantha		He's totally faking it.
mom		Bye.
mom		Mason, what's goin' on?
mason		I don't feel good.
mom		Yeah? Well your head feels fine.     So get your ass out of bed. 
mason		I mean, he didn't even ask! He just cut it. I mean, it's my hair!
mom		Well, no wonder you were angry.   I'd be angry too.
mason		I look like a martian now.
mom		Honey, you know what? I'm gonna talk to him about it later, okay?
mason		Yeah, I tried to call you but you didn't answer your phone.
mom		I'm so sorry. I've been so busy with school... Hey.
mason		Why'd you even marry him?    He's such a jerk.
mom		Well, Bill has his good qualities. You know, nobody's perfect. And now we have a family.
mason		We already had a family.
students		I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
students		Honor the Texas flag, I pledge allegiance to thee, Texas, one and indivisible.
neighborhood boy		There's a bump right there.
randy		Yeah.
mason		Mom, are you okay?
randy		What happened?
mom		No -- Go in the house! Go! Go in the house! Go in the house!
bill		Your mother had a little accident. Now she's being dramatic.
bill		I'm having a drink with my dinner. Anybody else have a problem with that? Hm? Samantha?
samantha		No.
bill		Mindy?
mindy		No.
bill		I didn't think so.
mom		Oh!
mom		Oh!
bill		Clean it up, goddamnit!     Clean it up!
mom		Bill!    Bill!
bill		Clean it up, goddamnit!     I hate squash!
samantha		How many times can you watch that, Mason?
mason		It's funny.
randy		No, but he's yelled a lot.
mindy		Yeah, but he hasn't thrown and broken stuff.
bill		Give me your cell phones.     So nobody talked to her, huh?
mason		No.
bill		Mindy?
mindy		No.
bill		I'll believe you...      Samantha?
samantha		No.
bill		What'd she say?
samantha		Nothing much.
bill		What did she say?
samantha		She said she'd be back later.
bill		And that's all? "I'll be back later," click?
samantha		She said, "Stay in your rooms.   I'll be back later."
samantha		Yeah.
bill		Where is she?
samantha		I don't know.
bill		Where is she?
samantha		She didn't say!
bill		Alright, everybody get in the car. Hurry up! Get in the car!
mindy		It's still not working.
bill		Ohh, bullshit. She took it all.
bill		Alright, Randy, go cash this. Uh... Tell him I'm not feeling well or something. I don't know. Mason, go with him. Here. Here's my ID.
clerk		Hi, good afternoon, fellas.    What can I do for you today?
randy		 It's our... dad.
clerk		Oh! Hey! Yeah, I know him. Okay, here we go. Five hundred bucks. One, two, three, four... Five hundred bucks. Alright? Don't forget your dad's ID.
bill		Damnit.   Get outta the way!    Jesus Christ.   God!
mason		What the hell?!
mom		 Samantha! Mason!    Samantha!
bill		Where the hell have you been?
mom		I'm leaving you, Bill.    We're moving out.
bill		I doubt that.
mom		Samantha and Mason!     Come down!
bill		No, mm-mm, don't think so.     Oh, who's this?
carol		I'm not here for you!
bill		Oh, really? Oh, I know, you're here to protect my wife from me. Well, thank you so much, you two.
mom		Okay, stay back!     Now behave!
bill		Why don't you come inside here, huh? Come inside here.  Where the hell are you goin'? Get your ass upstairs, you're not goin' anywhere.
mom		Stop!  Come on!
bill		Where the hell do you think you're going?
mom		Hey!
bill		Nobody's going anywhere, goddamnit.
mom		Stop it!
bill		No, goddamnit!
mom		Don't touch my kids!
bill		Alright, take 'em.     Go on, go on.
mom		Don't touch them!
bill		Take 'em!
carol		Come on.    It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
bill		Well take 'em then, just take 'em! Go!
mom		Seat belts!     Put your seat belts on.
samantha		Where are we going?
mom		We're going to stay with Carol and her family for a while.
mom		Hey, Lee and Mason.    Take a break. Here's a snack.
carol		Hey, Abby, why don't you come help me with this, huh?
samantha		Why couldn't Randy and Mindy come with us?
mom		I'm not their legal guardian, honey. That would be kidnapping. I can't just...
samantha		Well, what's gonna happen to them? What happens when their legal guardian is dangerous and abusive?
mom		You know, I don't know honey. I called their mom. I called the Child Protective Services. You know, I have you and your brother. We were in a dangerous situation. You're my responsibility.
samantha		Are we ever gonna see them again?
mom		I don't know. And I hope so.
samantha		How much longer are we gonna be here?
mom		Not long. We're...  Oh, I don't -- I don't know. I don't have the answer to everything.
carol		Hey, listen. We are happy to have you here as long as you want. As long as you need. This is fun for us, isn't it?
abby		Mm-hmm.
carol		Yeah, it's like having a big sister? Like having a brother.
mom		We're gonna help out, right? You're not even gonna know we're here.
carol		Okay.
samantha		Mom, this is awful. You're dumping me in some parking lot of this school where I don't even know anyone! I'm leaving all my friends and I didn't even get to say goodbye! I don't know where to go!
mom		Okay, Samantha. You go right through that door. The office is right there. They're expecting you, they're gonna give you your schedule. Here's your lunch money. I will pick you up
samantha		I'm wearing dirty clothes! Because you wouldn't even let us get our stuff! We don't even have a place to live! This sucks!
mom		Samantha... I'm doing the best I can! And you're right, it sucks! But it doesn't suck half as much as having a drunk fool slam your head against a wall! So cut your horseshit attitude.
mom		You know if you need anything I'm in room 112, right?
mason		Mom...
mason		Yeah.
kenny		Yes ma'am.
kenny		Got it.
kenny		Hey dude.    Welcome to the suck.
mason		Oh, hi. Can I put an Obama sign in your yard?
resident		Do I look like a Barack Hussein Obama supporter?
mason		What a dick.
samantha		He had a Confederate flag on his house.
blonde housewife		I love it! 
samantha		Um.   Our dad's a big supporter.
blonde housewife		Oh, that's great. I mean, we've just got to pull together to get this win, right?
samantha		Yeah.
blonde housewife		Oh, I just love him so much. I mean I have these dreams where I'm just kissing him because I just love him so much! He's so cute, isn't he?
samantha		 Yeah.
blonde housewife		Do you know, I made these t-shirts for my kids. "My Momma's for Obama!" Do you like it? It's good, right? Yeah.
dad		Hey, alright! Looks good! How many you got left, two? Alright, alright, we're done. Let's get out of here. Come on, Sam.
mason		 What?
dad		Get the McCain sign! Go rip it up, come on! Get it, get it, get it... Go! Go! Go!
samantha		You guys are gonna get us arrested.
dad		Hey, look. I'm a patriot, alright? Sometimes in this life, you gotta fight.
samantha		I don't know... talk, dance, listen to music.
dad		Uh-huh. And that's more fun to you than going camping with your brother and your father who love you?
samantha		Yes.   Sorry.
dad		Wow.   Is there gonna be alcohol there?
samantha		Probably not. Maybe some of the seniors.
dad		Mm-hmm. I know what this party is. The parents are out of town, right? Somebody's uh, scored a keg, right... You guys are gonna have a good time, trash the whole house... Right? Am I right?
samantha		No.
samantha		No, Dad.     Amy's really responsible.
dad		Mm-hmm.      Who's gonna be there?
samantha		Marie, Christine, Amy... Everyone.
dad		Is uh, is that guy on your Facebook page, is he gonna be there? Hm?
samantha		Who?
dad		Come on, the guy that has got his arm wrapped around you with his hair over his eyes and --
samantha		Garrett?
dad		Garrett, is that his name?     Alright, is Garrett gonna be there?
samantha		Probably?
dad		Probably.  Is he your boyfriend?
samantha		Kind of.
dad		Have you met him?       Has he been around the house?
mason		Sometimes.
dad		Sometime-zz?     Zzz?
samantha		Yes.
dad		What's the one thing that you know about Sarah Palin's seventeen year old daughter?
samantha		She's pregnant?
dad		That's right. And what is the one thing that you are not going to be in a couple of years when you turn seventeen?
samantha		Pregnant?
dad		That's right! Alright, now what are the, the two ways that you can achieve that goal? The first is... not have any sex. Okay? That's the first way. Okay? Just not engage in that. That did not work out very well for your mother and me. And what's the second way?
mason		Bathroom.
dad		You don't have to go to the bathroom. Sit down, Mason. Just... Just sit down. What's the second way? Alright? Has your mother talked to you guys about this stuff?
samantha		Oh, Dad.    Dad.
dad		No, come on. Has she talked to you about... contraception?
dad		What?   What?
samantha		That's enough.
dad		Well.    Does Garret have a condom?
samantha		Ohh!    God!   Dad!
dad		What? What, come on Sam. We have to be able to talk about this. Alright? Come on, we do. We can do it. We can do it. Just stay with me here. Alright? It's as hard for me as it is for you. But, seriously though, alright, I read an article in the paper the other day... that said that although U.S. teenagers are not the most sexually active, we have the highest rate of teenage pregnancy. Okay?
tammy		Hey.    What's goin' on?
dad		Oh, hey.    Hey, Tammy.    How you doin'?
tammy		Nice to see you.
dad		Wow, yeah, good to see you. Um, Tammy, this is my daughter Samantha.
tammy		Hey.
dad		And this is Mason Junior right here. Tammy.
mason		Hi.
tammy		Hi, Mason. Nice to meet you.      Heard a lot about you guys.
dad		Yeah, yeah.     What're you doin' here? You uh...
tammy		Oh, I'm just here with some friends.
dad		Oh, well, uh....
tammy		Yeah.     What are you guys up to?
dad		Um, we're going camping. Well no, this one is not going camping. This one is going to a party.
tammy		 Ohh... Fun.
dad		We, the men, are going camping.
tammy		Boys are going camping. Alright, very nice. Well uh, we still on for tomorrow or...?
tammy		Yeah?
dad		Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'll drop him off at seven and then I'll just call you, alright?
tammy		Okay. Great. It was really nice meeting you both. Take care.
dad		I'll see you.
tammy		Talk to you soon. Bye.
dad		Don't -- don't, don't look at me like that, alright? I just -- look, just to finish the point -- okay? I was twenty-three when your mom had you, alright? So was she, alright? And we didn't put ourselves in the best position to be great parents, and I wish that -- I wish I were a better parent to you guys. Alright? And I, I hope that you can learn from my mistakes. Okay? So, wear a condom. Or get Garrett to -- I don't know. Whatever.
dad		Now... listen to this song, alright?
song		"I do the dishes, I mow the lawn..."
dad		Listen to the production of this. Production's like uh, like "Abbey Road" or something.
song		"I try to keep myself occupied"
dad		"Even though I know you're not comin' home." You know, his old woman's gone... straight up. Nothin' fancy.
mason		Yeah, I think she's about to get her master's degree.
dad		Well, then she's gonna start applying for teaching jobs?
mason		I think she already has.
dad		Really?   Where?
mason		 All over.
dad		All over Texas?
mason		Yeah.
dad		Well, if you gotta move, you gotta move, you know? It's no big deal. We can handle that. I'll still come get you every other weekend. I mean, unless she moves 500 miles away or something, it'll just be a little more car time. No big deal.
mason		I'm just kinda sick of moving.
dad		Well, I bet you are. But you know, you never know. I mean, I might have to move, right? I'm working for this insurance company now. These places get bought and sold all the time. You know? We'll just roll with it.
mason		I thought you were a musician?
dad		I am but... life is expensive, you know. Guy's got to be responsible. What do you think?
mason		You know that redhead at the bowling alley?
dad		Sure.     What about her?
mason		Do you know her well?
dad		Ahhh, you know, we've hung out a little bit.
mason		Is she your girlfriend?
dad		How do you mean?
mason		Like... have you kissed her?
dad		Um... Yeah. Yeah. I've kissed her. What about you? You got a girlfriend?
mason		Sort of.
dad		Really.     Have you uh, have you kissed her?
mason		Not really.
dad		Yeah.     Well, what have you done?
mason		Well, we talked on the phone.
dad		Oh yeah?    How'd that go?
mason		Pretty terrible.
dad		Oh yeah? 
mason		Well, when we're at school, we got plenty to talk about, but when we're alone or on the phone, it's like we have nothing in common.
dad		Nothing?
mason		Uh, she's not interested in music or video games or... the three best movies this summer...
dad		All right.    What?
mason		Tropic Thunder, Dark Knight and Pineapple Express.
dad		Yeah, what about 'em?
mason		She said they all sucked.
dad		Okay, well what's she interested in?
mason		I don't know. Goin' to the mall with her stupid friends.
dad		Alright. Well, is she cute?      Watch your step there.
mason		Yeah.
dad		Yeah? Alright. Well, here's what you do. Alright. First off, you gotta ask her a lot of questions. Then you have to listen to the answers, alright, actually be interested in her. Alright, if you can do those things, you're gonna be light years ahead of all the other guys.
dad		Okay, this is the best s'more I ever made in my life, alright.
mason		Dad...
dad		This is absolute peak.     Look at this.
mason		Ah, that's just perfect.
dad		Honey brown, no burn... look at that, huh?
mason		That's like advertisement worthy.
dad		Mm-hm.   Advertisement quality.
mason		Yeah.
dad		You think they ever will make another "Star Wars"?
mason		I don't know. I mean, I think if they were to make another one that the period where the game is set is where it would have to be, 'cause there's nothin' after, really. At the end --
dad		Yeah, no, "Return of the Jedi" it's over. There's nothin' --
mason		Yeah, there's nothing else to do there. But --
dad		You know, you can turn Han Solo into a Sith lord. I mean --
mason		Yeah, what are you gonna do?
dad		Good mornin'.
mason		Mornin'.
dad		You gotta pee?
mason		Sure.
dad		Ah. Hit the campfire. Ancient, uh, Native American custom. You're gonna give back to the Earth what you take from it and you don't burn the forest down.
mom		Okay guys, you have a good day. Mason, don't forget, I have to teach late today. Sam's gonna pick you up. Right, Sam?
samantha		Yeah.
mason		Alright.
mom		Okay.    Bye, guys.
mason		See ya.
tony		Hey. That's who I was talking to you about.
mason		Yeah.     Good luck with that.
tony		See you, man.
mason		I didn't!
mason		No.
mason		Hi Jill.
jill		So, where are you going?
mason		Over to the college.
jill		What's going on there?
mason		My mom's a teacher.
jill		Oh, cool!     What does she teach?
mason		Psychology... I think.      What are you up to?
jill		Oh, my mom owns Needleworks. 
mason		How come?
jill		You know Courtney? Girl with the dyed black hair and the nose ring? Wears Hot Topic every day?
mason		I... think so.
jill		We used to be best friends growing up, but we've kinda grown apart. She sorta got all emo. She thinks I'm a prep. But, I still consider her a friend! Anyway, she cut one of her wrists. I don't know how bad, but I think I should go visit.
mason		Oh, it's uh, "Breakfast of Champions". Kurt Vonnegut.
jill		I think my older brother likes him. I'm reading "To Kill a Mockingbird" for the third time. My friends make fun of me. I think I'm the only girl in the whole school who doesn't like the "Twilight" books. Have you read them?
mason		Sure haven't.
jill		I tried... but it was so cheesy!   So how do you like San Marcos?
mason		I like it alright. It's a lot smaller than Houston, but it seems pretty cool. Have you always lived here?
jill		Yeah. If you want the big city around here, you have to drive to San Antonio or Austin. Have you been there yet?
mason		I went to San Antonio for a day, but... I haven't been to Austin yet.
jill		That's where all the high school kids go, on weekends, for shows and stuff.
mason		That's what I've heard.
jill		So are you going to Shauna's party next weekend?
mason		Um... I think I heard about it.    I'm not really sure, though.
jill		Well you should!
mason		Why's that?
jill		Well -- LeeAnn has a big crush on you and I know she was hoping you would go. You don't have a girlfriend, do you?
mason		Not currently.
jill		Well then, you should come. I'll tell Chase to make sure you're there.
mason		Okay.
jill		But don't tell LeeAnn I told you that. She'd kill me.
mason		I won't.
jill		Well, I better get going.   See you later.
mason		Bye.
mom		Thanks.
samantha		Okay!    Mom...
mom		Why in the hell didn't you pick up your brother like you said you would?
samantha		Mom, I know what you're gonna say. She was running late and we couldn't turn around.
mom		No, no! No excuses! The bottom line is you didn't do what you said you were gonna do. You stranded your brother!
samantha		It's embarrassing to ask my friend to turn around and go get some kid at the middle school.
mom		What do you mean "some kid"? He's your brother! And you know what? We've helped Janie out before. I mean, she lives right around the corner. It's no big deal.
samantha		Sorry.
mom		You know what, Samantha? You need to start thinking long and hard about who you want to be. 
samantha		You know what? You're right. I am this horrible person... But honestly, he's not a baby anymore. You don't have to treat him like one. He's in eighth grade and he can find his way home if he wants to.
mom		You know what? When Gaby leaves, you and me are gonna have a chat.
samantha		 Awkward...
gaby		Dude, that sucks.
mason		Hey man.    What's up?
chase		Hey, we're going camping tonight. You in?
mason		Uh, who's goin'?
chase		My brother, one of his friends, and Tony... Maybe.
mason		Yeah, let me check with my mom.
mason		Hey, Mom. Can I go camping with Chase tonight?
mom		Camping?    Where?
mason		Uh, at that house that his family's building. It's pretty much finished.
mom		Well, will any adults be there?
mason		 His brother's a senior.
mom		You have your cell phone?
mason		Yeah.
mason		Mm-hmm.
mom		Okay, do me a favor. Leave his parents' number and the address on the counter.
mason		Okay.
senior guy		Yeah!     That's what I'm talkin' about!
charlie		Alright, let me see, let me see what you can do.
senior guy		Alright. This -- is your face. I'm about to break his face, right here...
boys		Ohh shit, alright.    Nice.
charlie		Alright, alright.
chase		Alright, alright. Now check this out. You might want to move.
tony		That's like the belly button --
mason		Check this out, man.
tony		Whoa!   Pancreas!
mason		That shit's lethal.
chase		Yeah, that would be painful.
charlie		 Man, have a beer, man.    That was awesome. Here.
senior guy		It's beer-30, children.
chase		Nice.
tony		Aw, no thanks.
chase		Come on, man.
charlie		What, are you a pussy?
tony		No, I just don't feel like drinking a beer right now.
charlie		Man, if you're too chicken shit to even have a beer, I know for a fact that you have never gotten any pussy.
tony		Like you guys have.
chase		Sure have.
tony		When?
chase		Last summer.
mason		With who?
charlie		It was awesome. Chase went down easy street and fucked this whore Nancy. At least that's what he said.
chase		I did.   Would I lie?
senior guy		Bullshit.    Quick, where were you?
chase		At Tobler's house. And, she fucked a couple other guys, too.
charlie		Oh man, his first piece of ass was sloppy seconds.
senior guy		Yeah, you ever made her, uh, howl into the night?
mason		A few times.
tony		 Really?
senior guy		Yeah, right.     What was her name, Lucky?
mason		Nooo. Jennifer. She doesn't live here, though. She's back in Houston.
charlie		You're fucking lying.
mason		I don't care if you assholes believe me or not.
senior guy		Let me guess -- you were pulling all kinds of ass back home, but once you got down here... lefty.
mason		Hey, fuck you. I would, but none of the girls here want to.
charlie		Dude, it's not what they want, man. It's what you want.
senior guy		True dat.
charlie		You know what you should do? Join a band. That's all it takes, man.
mason		Oh yeah?
charlie		Fuck yeah, dude. You don't even have to play that well. I mean, you start playing your instrument, and they line up to give you blow jobs.  Except for you. It doesn't impress the ladies so much when you play flute for the marching band.
tony		I'm not in the fucking marching band.
senior guy		Ah dude, you sure? I heard you play the skin flute.
tony		Alright, I got a question for you guys. If you think you're so cool, why are you hanging out with a bunch of eighth graders on a Friday night?
senior guy		Hey, fuck you, you little penis wrinkle. You know, you're lucky to even be here. This is our camp out. The only reason you little cum gums are here is because fucking Charlie's mom made him bring his little asshole brother, and then he drags along you little dice danglers. Fucking fuzz nut, talking shit!
charlie		It's all good, man. These little fuzz nuts are going to get their chance soon enough. We got some whores coming by later.
chase		Yeah?
senior guy		Hell yeah!
charlie		Now, I know Chase will fuck anything. I mean, I've seen this kid mount boulders before. But what about you guys? You in?
mason		Whatever.
charlie		Alright.
senior guy		Alright, good man. What about you, Peter Puffer?
tony		I don't know. Maybe.
senior guy		Dude, it's okay to be gay. We understand. Just, you know, sleep over there.
tony		I'm not gay.
charlie		Give it some time, man.     You'll realize.
tony		Fuck y'all.
charlie		See, that's exactly my point, man. Nah, but we don't have whores coming over, we were just fucking with you to see what you'd say.
senior guy		Yeah, and you just earned your Vag Badge.
charlie		Put it next to your bitch card.
senior guy		Yeah, 'cause you know, you're a bitch. Now hold this, like the bitch you are, bitch.
boys		Ohh!    Jesus!
mom		 Hey, you guys made it! Good.
professor douglas		And here you go, hostess.
mom		Oh, thank you. Hey, can I get you a bite?
college girl		 Oh, that's cool.
mason		Thanks.
college girl		You did that?
mason		Yeah.
college girl		Wow. How long have you been doing that for?
mason		Not very long. Um, I went to this camp thing just this past summer.
college girl		They have a camp for graffiti?
mason		Well, they call it "urban art".
college girl		Oh.
mason		So it sounds, you know, less illegal, but... it was really just a way to get free spray paint.
college girl		Cool. So is this your tag?     Is that -- do they still call it...?
mason		Yeah, but you know, it's just letters that I'm good at writing.
college girl		Oh.   K...
mason		E.
college girl		E.    Z.   J.   O. Kezjo. That's cool.
mason		It doesn't really mean anything, though.
college girl		Is that your dad?
mason		Yeah.
college girl		Where's he live?
mason		In Houston.
college girl		Get to see him much?
mason		Yeah, yeah.    Some weekends, and over the summer.
college girl		Cool.
mason		So you're a student of my mom's, right?
college girl		Mm-hm. Yeah, she's uh, I got one class with her. Yeah, she's cool.
mason		How's she doing? You know, is she -- is she a good teacher and everything?
college girl		Yeah! She's great. She's super smart and she cares, you know, she makes it interesting. She's probably even my favorite teacher.
jim		...So anyway, we figured out a way to rig up our iPods to the external speakers on the ASV. So every time we come rolling into town, you knew the 456 was there, 'cause we were bumping House of Pain. It was like, "Jump around, Jump around." And the whole family's coming outside, and you got the kids and the mom and the dad, and they're all bouncing up and down. We're throwing out candies for the kids, and soccer balls, and Beanie Babies, and Frisbees... Um, like, smokes for the adults. And they loved, they absolutely loved, Gatorade. But for some reason, you know, they hated the lemon-lime flavor. I don't know what it was. Yeah. Couldn't give it away.
mom		How long were you over there?
jim		Uhh... I did two tours in Iraq and one in Bosnia.
mom		Wow.
mason		Did you enlist?
jim		Mm-hmm. Yeah. I was, um, Army National Guard. And, uh, you know coming straight out of high school. Needed money for college. Seemed like a decent paying job. And, uh, did my tour. And whenever I got done, I told them if there's, you know, a world-changing event, I'll come back. And, uh, 3 months later 9/11 happened. And I was back 9/12. And I'm proud to say the 456, the whole time we were there, we never lost a guy. Not one casualty.
mom		But is that odd?    Is that unusual?
jim		Yeah. Almost impossible. Like the guys that came along after us and replaced us, they didn't listen to any of our advice. They, you know, did basically the polar opposite of what we did, and they lost seven guys in the first month.
mom		Wow. What did you guys do differently?
jim		Well, I'd like to think it's just a matter of mutual respect, you know. I mean, all the time we spent over there building trust, I mean these guys basically destroyed it in three days.
professor douglas		So, what did the locals think about why we were there?
jim		Oil.    Plain and simple.
chase		Hey, Mason.  One last hit.
charlie		 Hey! Mickey Mouse Club. Get the fuck out of my car. Just crawl out the back window or something, man.
blonde girl		I'm gonna miss you.
mason		I'll see you on Sunday night.
blonde girl		Alright.    You better text me.
mason		Mm.    Do you have any gum?
blonde girl		Um... yeah, I do, actually.   Here you go.
mason		Thanks.   See ya.
mom		...And they're buying this party line that they're supposed to feel bad and trade off their own pension, as if that's what's corrupting this nation.
professor douglas		Yeah, because those who hear Fox, in my opinion, are being lied to.
mom		Yeah, thank God for Wisconsin. I mean, we have to follow that example.
professor douglas		You're right.
jim		Hey, Mason.    What time is it?
jim		Happy birthday.
mom		Huh!   Happy birthday!
professor douglas		Mason, it's your birthday?
mason		Uh, just now, I guess.
professor douglas		Yeah, how old are you?
mason		Fifteen.
professor douglas		Fifteen!    Give me a hug.
mom		 Have you been drinking?
mason		Have you?
mom		Yeah, a little.     Have you?
mason		A little bit.
mom		Have you been...?
mason		A little bit.
mom		Oh... okay.
mason		I'm gonna go to sleep.
mom		Talk in the morning, huh?
samantha		Hey, Dad!
dad		Hey!   How you doing?
samantha		Good!    Whose car is that?
dad		That's our car.    Hop on in there.
samantha		 Hey!
annie		Hey, sweetie.
samantha		Hey Cooper! Hey, how's it goin'? Hello little brother!  He's so cute.
mom		Can we just replace that part of the pipe?
worker		No, no it's no good.      Everything is no good.
mom		 Todo... Total?
worker		Everything, yes... Mira.
mom		Gusto... it's stronger?
worker		Yes.    It's better.   Yes, yes, yes.
dad		 Hey listen, uh, thanks for that camera you got Mason.
jim		Oh,   yeah... Mason's --
dad		He's loving that thing.
jim		He's all into the photography thing right now.
dad		Yeah, I know.
jim		He's actually talking about turning his, uh, his closet into a dark room. The red light and developing, the whole nine...
dad		Yeah?   You alright with that?
jim		I probably won't see him for a week...
dad		Yeah... Right... Well...
jim		But, you know. He's having a good time.
dad		At least he's focusing on something.
jim		Yeah, yeah.
dad		You know?     That's what I like.
jim		Yeah, he's all about it.
mom		 Okay... Let's go grande.
worker		It's good?
mom		It's good.
worker		It's good.    It's better.   Yes.
mom		Hey, you know, you're smart.    You should be in school.
worker		I like school, I need school, but it's hard. I work all day...
mom		Go to night school. At community college. It's -- It's pretty affordable.
dad		You're doing a nice job with the house though, it's looking great... really great.
jim		Thanks. Yeah, you know, some fix- its here and there, you know. We got a good deal on the foreclosure... So, now I'm finding out why. You know?
dad		 Yeah. Right?
mason		What's that?
dad		What's that?     That's our new car! Get in it.
jim		Alright, have a good weekend.
mom		Hi.
dad		Hey, how you doing?      Good to see you.
mom		You too.  Hey!
annie		Hey, how are you?
mom		You look great.
annie		Oh, thanks.
mom		Aww, look at him!      Ooh.   He's got Mason's nose.
samantha		Yeah, isn't he cute?
mom		Yeah.
dad		Alright!
mason		Love you guys.
dad		We got a big drive ahead of us.
mom		Bye, Sam.
jim		You guys drive safe.
dad		Alright.     Well, we'll be back tomorrow night.
mom		Bye, honey.     I'm so glad you were born!
mason		So, this is like Annie's car and... and you drive the GTO? I guess you can't really put a baby seat in that thing.
dad		Yeah, no...     But I had to sell that anyway.
mason		You what?
dad		Yeah, I had to sell that.
mason		So... so it's gone?
dad		Yeah, some sucker collector from California paid twenty-two grand for it, which is great 'cause I basically got to pay for this in cash. I only paid eighty-five hundred for that thing way back when. I mean, you know, cars are generally a terrible investment. You know? Soon as you drive them off the lot you got a used car on your hands, and the value's only dropping from there. 
mason		You don't remember?
dad		Remember what?
mason		Really? You said that was going to be my car when I turned sixteen.
dad		 What? No, I didn't.       I never said that.
mason		I remember. I was in third grade and you were taking me over to Anthony Nagar's house for his birthday... and we were there early, so we gave him a ride around the block. And he was talking about how much he loved your car and so you were all like "Oh. This is going to be Mason's
dad		What are you..? Alright, first off, I have no memory of that, alright? Second of all, I would never say that. Never.
mason		Yeah.   You did though.
dad		What? Mason. Come on, what about your sister? I'm just gonna forget about her? Come on, how's that fair? Huh? Anthony Nagar, what the? 
annie		Does your mom actually let you watch this?
samantha		Yeah.     She likes it too.
annie		 Oh, my god... Okay, well.
samantha		Yeah.
annie		Have you ever seen her in concert?
samantha		No. But she's coming to Houston in April.
annie		She's coming to Houston?
samantha		Mm-hmm.
annie		Oh you know, your dad and I could get you tickets, and you could stay with us.
samantha		That'd be great.
annie		Yeah.
dad		Hey, hey, Annie? Will you get me the, the little birthday present for Mason?
annie		Yeah, babe.
dad		Alright. This one, this one needs a little explanation, okay? Open it up. I call that "The Beatles' Black Album". Alright, what it is, is the best of John, Paul, George, and Ringo solo, post-break up.
mason		Thanks.
dad		Yeah, basically, I put the band back together for you.
mason		I don't know. I think I always just liked Paul the best.
dad		It doesn't matter, you know, you're missing the point. There is no favorite Beatle! That's what I'm saying. It's in the balance. That's what made them the greatest fucking rock band in the world. Okay? You know, and there's this decade of music out there that's been scattered. Alright? 
annie		Very arranged and very organized, over and over again by your loving father.
dad		Yes, yes, yes. So, I mean, look at that-- look at that, uh, top of Volume II, first four tracks... You've got "Band on the Run" into "My Sweet Lord", into "Jealous Guy", into "Photograph". I mean, come on. It's like the perfect segue. You got Paul, who takes you to the party, George who talks to you about God, John who says no, it's about love and pain, and then Ringo who just says hey, can't we enjoy what we have while we have it? It's a good record. I shit you not.
mason		Cool.
dad		Hey there, Cliff.
grandpa cliff		Hey, how you doin'?
dad		Oh, good.   How you doin'?
nana		 Oh, hi, birthday boy!   It's good to see you.
grandpa cliff		Good.   Good to see you.
dad		Ah, it's great to see you.
grandpa cliff		You made it alright, huh?
dad		Yeah, we sure did.    We sure did.
grandpa cliff		 How are you, darling?
dad		Alright, we ready?
annie		Yeah, yeah, get started --
nana		Wait, wait, wait...
dad		Hey, Sam.
grandpa cliff		Oh, yeah, sawin' logs.
dad		You ready?
all		 Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Mason... Happy birthday to you!
dad		Make a wish, make a wish.
nana		Real good! Presents!      Wait, wait, wait. Here, sweetie.
dad		Hey Sam, would you get us a knife so we can cut this up? Hey? Alright.
nana		I hope you like it. I heard you didn't have one, so.
mason		Wow.
nana		...In gold. And wait-wait-wait-wait. Look at this. It's a Red Letter edition, and that means that everything Jesus said is in red.
mason		Thank you.
nana		Like it?     Alright. I love you, sweetie.     Happy Birthday.
annie		And this one's from us.
dad		It's not going to make all your dreams come true, here, you know. Just keep your expectations low. No, no, no, no, you need it. It's...
nana		Wow!
dad		You've got life ahead of you.   You know --
annie		And the shirt is blue, and I know you like blue.
dad		You've got dances --
nana		It's beautiful!
dad		-- And job interviews. Here, I'm going to get it all wrinkled here.
grandpa cliff		Mason?
dad		 The Black Album was from me.
nana		Uh-oh.
grandpa cliff		Come here, son. Pull that off.
mason		Wow.
grandpa cliff		Yeah. My dad gave it to me when I was a little younger than you, and his dad gave it to him, and well, you're fifteen and I'd like for you to have it. Alright? Here, you hold it. Yeah.
mason		 Thank you.
grandpa cliff		Congratulations, son. I'll teach you how to clean it, teach you how to fire it. I'll teach you a little bit of safety.
dad		Now cock it. Alright, there you go. Now, what you want to do is line up the front sight with the back sight, here, you see this little V right here --
samantha		Mm-hm.
dad		Now which one you aiming at?
samantha		Ah, the middle can.
dad		The middle can? Alright, alright. Now fire at will, alright?
samantha		Okay.
dad		Ho.   Whoa!
samantha		Yeah!
grandpa cliff		Howdy!
dad		Alright, watch out, watch out.   Whoa. Be careful. Alright.
grandpa cliff		Ready?   Pull!
mason		Mm-hm.
grandpa cliff		Ready?
mason		Mm-hm.
grandpa cliff		Pull!
mason		Felt good.
grandpa cliff		Yeah, it felt good. Good.
dad		 Well, I want for us to be together forever.
annie		 But to wander wherever I may.
dad		 I want you to be easy and casual.
annie		 But still demand I stay.
samantha		 I want for you to know me completely, but still remain mysterious.
mason		 Consider everything deeply, but still remain fearless.
mason		 If I don't try, I'll never fail.
dad		Good!
grandpa cliff		It was really wonderful. That's sweet. Sweet.
nana		Thank you, thank you, thank you.
grandpa cliff		Impressive.
dad		It's a work in progress.
preacher		"I won't believe it until I put my finger into his side and I'm gonna see those nail prints in his hands." Poof! About that time, here comes Jesus, standing right next to him. Okay? And he turns to Thomas. Don't you know Thomas felt some shame? And he turns to Thomas and says, "Thomas, here, stick your finger in my side. Look at these nail prints. It's me." And Thomas says, "My Lord, and my God, I believe."
annie		The pond's right up here.   Ooh, it's low.
dad		Yeah.
annie		You know, my dad could take you fishing next time you're here if you want.
mason		Nice.
annie		 Hi, baby. What's goin' on?
dad		Want me to stay with you?
annie		No, it's okay.
dad		You sure?
annie		Yeah, thanks.
samantha		Mason, why are you such a stick-in- the-mud?
mason		What are you even talking about?
dad		Hey, you guys don't mind coming back here on the 20th, do you, for Cooper's baptism?
mason		No, it's fine.
dad		Sam?
samantha		Okay.
dad		I appreciate it. It means a lot to Annie and her folks, you know.
mason		Were we baptized?
dad		I wasn't the least bit concerned with the state of your soul. We can do it now, though, if you want.
mason		No, nah, I think I'm alright.
dad		You and Cooper together, you know. Dunk your heads.
samantha		You're not becoming one of those God people, are you, Dad?
dad		And what's that supposed to mean, hm?
annie		I can hear you!
dad		Well, I think that shotgun should live at my house, huh. I don't think your mom would love that.
samantha		Nice, Dad.
dad		Still got the goods, hmm?
turlington		How long you been in here, Mason?
mason		I'm not sure.
turlington		I'm sure. All class. Did you complete your image diary?
mason		Not yet.
turlington		Completed your, uh, digital contact sheet?
mason		Not quite, but... I mean, it's not gonna take me long.
turlington		Not yet. Not quite. Darkroom time is extra-curricular. I mean technically, you don't ever have to be in here these days, and certainly not until you've completed your assignments. That's the deal.
mason		Sorry.
turlington		I'm worried about you, Mason.
mason		Why is that?
turlington		I'll tell you why. The images you're turning in, they're cool. You're looking at things in a really unique way. Got a lot of natural talent.
mason		Thanks.
turlington		Yeah, but, that and fifty cents will just get you a cup of coffee in this old world. I've met a lot of talented people over the years. How many of them made it professionally without discipline, commitment, and a really good work ethic?
mason		No, but I mean the things you're talking about, like work ethic or whatever, I feel like I do work pretty hard. I spend the whole weekend taking pictures a lot of times.
turlington		You like football, Mason?
mason		Not really.
turlington		Yeah, I know you don't. That's why I've just assigned you to shoot the football game tonight. Okay? It starts at 7:30. I want you to get there early. I want you to shoot a full card, three hundred images, and I want 'em downloaded, I want 'em sorted, and I want to see them very first thing Monday. Okay? You want to know why I'm doing this?
mason		I guess.
turlington		Who do you want to be, Mason?    What do you want to do?
mason		I want to take pictures.    Make art.
turlington		Any dip-shit can take pictures, Mason. Art, that's special. What can you bring to it that nobody else can?
mason		That's what I'm trying to find out.
turlington		Try harder. Hey, maybe in twenty years you can call old Mr. Turlington and you can say, "Thank you, sir, for that terrific dark room chat we had that day."  Get back to class and do your work.
nick		Hey man.   You're walkin' a little funny.
mason		Fuck you.
nick		I'm just saying, you guys were in there for a long time. Just hope he bought you dinner first.
mom		Mason!   Honey, come down for dinner.
samantha		Why are we even doing this? It's like an online junk shop. I thought you had a good job?
mom		I do. We're what you call house poor. Everyone's got to do their part. Your brother took the pictures. You have to help.
samantha		Who even buys this shit?
jim		Hey, Sam, watch your mouth, alright? Don't disrespect your mother. You like a roof over your head, don't you?
mom		Yeah, and you like having electricity so that you can charge your cell phone?
samantha		I'm not even gonna be here next year. I'm a senior. I should be having fun.
jim		Nice nails.
mason		Yeah, some girl did that in sixth period.
jim		You planning on keeping them?
mason		Until it comes off, I guess.
jim		Last summer it was the earrings, and now the nails. You got a, uh, you got a purse to go with all that?
samantha		A lot of guys do that.   He's just trying to be cool.
jim		When I was in high school, having a job, being responsible, being able to afford a car, that was cool.
mom		Mason, honey, why don't you get you and your sister some water.
nick		Hey man, Turlington says to cut the artsy crap and shoot the game. So take your lens and point it that way.
mason		Jesus Christ.
nick		Also, we got a ride tonight.
chase		McCormick gonna take us to the party. We're gonna head out after the game. You're goin', okay?
mason		Okay.
nick		Shoot the game.
gaby		Oh! First one. What was that? What was that? What is up?
sheena		Hey, what's up?
mason		Hey.    How's it goin'?
sheena		Pretty good.     How long have you been here?
mason		I don't know. Awhile, I guess.
sheena		Awhile?    Yeah.
mason		I just feel like there are so many things that I could be doing and probably want to be doing that I'm just not.
sheena		Why aren't you?
mason		I mean, I guess it's... just being afraid of what people would think. You know, judgment.
sheena		Yeah. I guess it's really easy to say, like, I don't care what anyone else thinks, but, everyone does, you know? Deep down.
mason		Exactly. I find myself so furious at all these people that I'm in contact with just for controlling me or whatever, but you know, they're not even aware they're doing it.
sheena		Yeah. So... in this perfect world where no one's controlling you, what's different? What changes?
mason		Everything. I mean, I just    wanna be able to do anything I want,   because it makes me feel alive. As    opposed to giving me the appearance   of normality.
sheena		Whatever that means.
mason		I don't think it means much.
sheena		You're kinda weird, you know that?
mason		Yeah? 
sheena		I don't know. Do you wanna be weird?
mason		I mean, I don't want to like... scare kids at the park, or anything like that.
sheena		So, why're you trying with me?
mason		I don't know. I guess I feel comfortable.
sheena		I'm glad.
mason		Hey, Jim.   I'm sorry I'm so late.
jim		What time were you supposed to be home?
mason		I don't know. Awhile ago.
jim		Awhile ago like, thirty minutes ago, an hour ago? Cause, truthfully, nobody even knew where you were until your sister told us. She's been home for awhile.
mason		I'm sorry.
jim		Yeah, been hearin' a lot of that lately. See, but you don't actually care. You just kinda... kinda come and go as you please and you don't care if your mom's upset or what time you gotta be home... Is that what's up?
mason		I don't know what to tell you.
jim		Stop mumbling! You know, speak up! I can't understand a word comin' outta your mouth. It's just like, "uh uhh nuhh" and I ask you questions and you just--
mason		Man, can I just have one day where everyone isn't all over my ass!?
jim		I'm up your ass? This is my house. Now, if you wanna live in my house then you get home when you say you're gonna be home.
mason		You know, Jim, you're not my dad.
jim		No, I'm not your dad! You know how I know that? Cause I'm actually here. I'm the guy with the job, paying the bills, taking care of you, your mom, your sister... Huh?! Huh?!
mason		Morning.
mom		Morning. Hey, which one of you guys used the downstairs bathroom last night?
mason		I don't know. I didn't.
mom		That tall guy, what's his name?
mason		Phillip?
mom		Yeah, Phillip. He did it. Can Phillip read? I mean, there's a big sign on the door, it says, "Do not use this bathroom, it's broken." I mean, how difficult is that?
mason		I don't know. I'm sorry.
mom		I think I'm gonna put the house on the market.
mason		Why?
mom		This house is too big for us. I mean, you're going to school eventually... It's too expensive. I'm done.
mason		Well why did you even buy it in the first place, then?
mom		Because I really enjoy making poor life decisions, keeping us on the 
mason		Really?   Like what?
mom		Like - Well, I got rid of a couple husbands, now I'm gonna get rid of a mortgage, some maintenance, the tchotchkes, the, the homeowner's insurance, the property tax, the plumbing... Ahhh. You know what? From now on I am gonna be Mommy Monk. Simple. Celibate.
mason		Don't be gross, Mom.
mom		Fine. I'll be a poor whore with a big house.  Is that better?
mason		Okay.
mom		Mason -- Mason, please, don't leave me that dirty dish to wash.
mason		I do dishes all day.
mom		Well, great honey, then you're a professional. Come on, you could do one or two more for you poor old mom.
mason		Okay.
mom		Thank you.
mason		You want one?
april		Ugh. God --
mason		 She didn't even touch them, seriously. I watched her the whole time.
april		Yeah, I bet you did watch her, you little pervert.  It's like we're on a date. Cheers.
mason		It's a night of romance.
april		Yeah, except I'm not gonna kiss you.
mason		I'm goin' as fast as I can.
mason		Enrique is not here.   I'm tryin'.
mason		Good.
dad		Well, so it's -- it's runnin' okay? That alternator's not messin' up anymore?
mason		 No , it's fine. It's up for the trip.
dad		 Well, you gonna see your sister when you guys are in Austin?
mason		Yeah, she said I can stay at her dorm, which is cool, and I guess her roommate's out of town so it's no big deal.
dad		Alright, well, did you apply there yet? Did you get that application in to UT?
mason		Not yet, but Sheena's pretty much in, though.
dad		Yeah, right. Well, if you know that's where you wanna go, you should probably do that early acceptance thing. You know? I mean seriously, let 'em know you're a man who knows what he wants.
mason		Yeah.
dad		A bit of decisiveness goes a long way in this life, alright?
mason		Yeah.
dad		Great. And uh, what about work? How's that goin'?
mason		Uh, I don't know. It's, it's alright. Today kind of sucked, this guy didn't show up. But it's definitely an interesting perspective on the world. People are slobs.
dad		 Well, when people ask me about you I say, "Oh, Mason, he's doing great. He's got a job, he's really cleanin' up."
annie		Say hi to your big brother.     Hey, big brother.
mason		Hey, Annie.    Hey, kiddo.
annie		Can you say bye-bye?
baby		Bye-buh!
annie		 We'll see you soon.
dad		 Alright, alright, well, be careful when you're driving, alright? Don't be texting, don't be doing any of that. Alright? Just, you're Obi Wan. You're centered, patient, right? You watch three cars ahead, two behind. It takes two bad drivers to have an accident okay?
mason		Okay.
dad		 Right, and listen, tell your sister to pick up her phone or call me back or something.
mason		Okay.
dad		Alright, buddy!      You have a good one.
mason		Bye, Dad.
mom		 Hey, honey, take this to your sister. Throw it in the truck, okay?
mason		Okay, I will.
mom		So where is Sheena staying?
mason		At her friend Emily's.
mom		Is Emily a real person?
mason		 Yeah. Yeah, she's a sophomore.    She has an apartment.
mom		 Okay, this is in case of emergency. Don't spend it. I want it back.
mason		Okay.   Thanks.
mom		Did you do your homework?
mason		Most of it, but... I can finish tomorrow night.
mom		Honey! Eleventh grade is really important for college. Don't blow it.
mason		I know! I know. I mean, we're going to UT and everything.
mom		I know, and don't you want me to come? Come on, Sheena, road trip with Mom! I'll pay for gas.
mason		Umm...
mom		I'm just kidding.      I have work.
mason		I will.
mom		Have fun!
sheena		... That sounds to me like just another extreme Mason view of everything.
mason		Not at all! I finally figured it out. It's like when they realized it was gonna be too expensive to actually build cyborgs and robots... I mean, the costs of that were impossible. They decided to just let humans turn themselves into robots. That's what's going on right now.
sheena		Oh, right now?
mason		Yeah! I mean, why not? There are billions of us just laying around, not really doing anything. We don't cost anything. I mean we're even pretty good at self-maintenance and reproducing constantly. And as it turns out, we're already biologically programmed for our little cyborg upgrades.
sheena		How?
mason		Seriously. I read this thing other day about how, like, when you hear that ding on your inbox you get a, like a dopamine rush in your brain. It's like we're being chemically rewarded for allowing ourselves to be brainwashed. How evil is that? We're fucked.
sheena		So you deleting your Facebook page is gonna change all that? Remember when Trevor deleted his Facebook page last year and everyone just hated him? You made more fun of him than anyone.
mason		I still make fun of Trevor, though.
sheena		But it looked like he was so pathetically desperate for attention. Or to be different, or something.
mason		That's just 'cause they did that lame story about it in the school paper.
sheena		And then he had to make a big announcement about it when he came back a month later.
mason		That's the thing though, I'm not doing it for attention. I just want to try and not live my life through a screen. I want, like, some kind of actual interaction. A real person, not just the profile they put up.
sheena		Oh, I'm sorry. Were you saying something?
mason		Yeah, okay, I know you're joking, but, I mean, it's kinda true you have been, you know, checking your phone this whole time, and so what are you really doing? You don't care what your friends are up to on Saturday afternoon but you're also obviously not fully experiencing my profound bitching so... it's like everyone's just stuck in, like, an in-between state. Not really experiencing anything.
sheena		It's not an experience, it's just information. Look, for example, I just got the address of the club where we're meeting them later, so we won't be wandering the streets of Austin lost for an hour tonight. Thank you very much, Facebook. And I just texted my mom back.
mason		Oh, that's -- that's groundbreaking. She hasn't seen you in, like, 55 minutes?
sheena		Oh! Oh my god, most importantly, Meg's family just got a miniature pet pig.
mason		 Okay, you're right.    That is a --
sheena		Right?
mason		That is a really cute, tiny pig. Our lives can go on.
sheena		I want one.
boyfriend		Nice shot.
samantha		Yeah, just give the lady at the front y'all's I.D.s and, uh, she should let you in.
sheena		I see.   Cool.
samantha		Yeah.
sheena		It's room 2-0-6, right?
samantha		Mm-hm.
sheena		Awesome. It's not like weird that we're staying there?
samantha		No, it's fine. Have fun. 
samantha		About three months. Yeah, we met at a party and it's been, ya know, chill.
sheena		Yeah, he seems cool.
samantha		Yeah.    He is.
sheena		Cool.    What is he studying?
samantha		He's studying history and uh, Italian, I think?
sheena		Does he wanna... does he wanna teach?
samantha		I don't know, I think, I think he's still figuring stuff out. Yeah, he'll figure it out, he's smart, he's smart. So where are you thinking about living when you come here?
sheena		Um, I'm not really sure yet. We're gonna look at apartments tomorrow, um, but I know my parents sorta were expecting me to live in a dorm.
samantha		Yeah.
sheena		Yeah. But I mean, I'm paying my way through college, so it doesn't really matter that much.
samantha		Yeah, you don't have to listen to your parents after you turn eighteen. I mean, especially if they're not helping you financially.
sheena		That's what I figured.
samantha		But I mean, living in a dorm isn't so bad.
sheena		Yeah.
samantha		I mean especially if it's a coed dorm. I mean, I've never been around like, so many cute guys at once. Like, college is really fun.
sheena		I'm excited.
samantha		It's great, yeah.
boyfriend		Watch out.
samantha		Oh!
musicians		 "On the day that I was born I started growin' old. No one told you life would be so lonesome and cold. I had a grey hair by the age of 23, this hard-luck livin's gonna be the end of me. The old black crow leaving tracks all across my face, and everywhere I go I seem to be in the same damn place. Hard livin's gonna be the end of me."
sheena		See those sorority girls over there? I've just decided, if you delete your Facebook page, I'm pledging.
mason		Yeah, in just a few years that's you  And that's gonna be me.
sheena		Look at all these people. What are they even doing here at 3:00 in the morning?
mason		What are WE even doing here at 3:00 in the morning?
sheena		We know what we're doing here.
mason		Hell yeah.
sheena		HELL yeah.
mason		You know, by, like, next summer this'll just be our lives.
sheena		Mm-hm.
mason		Stayin' out all night and goin' to shows... whatever we want.
sheena		We ever gonna go to class?
mason		Sometimes.
sheena		When it feels right.     When the inspiration hits.
mason		Only then.
waitress		Anything else?
sheena		Uhhh... more queso?
mason		 Yeah.
waitress		Mm-hm.
mason		Ah, Jesus.
sheena		What?
mason		I don't know, doesn't it all seem a little overwhelming? I mean, college? I mean, I like the idea of being away from home and gaining skills and getting better at photography. I just, I don't know, I'm not counting on it being some big transformative experience.
sheena		I don't think it's that transformative. I just see it as the next step.
mason		But it's like a pre-ordained slot that's already got your name and number on it. I don't think it's the key to my future. Cause, like, I mean, look at my mom. She got her degree, and got a pretty good job, she can pay her bills...
sheena		Well, I like your mom.
mason		Well, I like my mom, too. I just mean, basically, she's still just as fucking confused as I am.
sheena		 Thank you.
mason		Thanks.
roommate		Hello?
mason		Hey. Um, did uh, did Sam tell you we were gonna stay here?
roommate		 Uh -- no.
mason		 Sorry. Um, she uh, she said you were out of town for the weekend.
roommate		Yeah, I was. I just got back.     Are you her... brother?
mason		Yeah, I'm, I'm Mason.
roommate		Right.
mason		Um, this is Sheena.
roommate		Hello. Uh, great. Alright. I'm... gonna leave my stuff here, if it's okay, and get something to eat and...
mason		Okay.
roommate		... I'll just come back in a little bit...
mason		Yeah, yeah we have to, we have to get outta here soon anyway, so...
roommate		Alright.     It's nice meeting you.
mason		Yeah.    You, too.
sheena		 Sorry!
mason		That was so awkward.
teacher		Mason... silver medal winner. Congratulations!
mason		Thank you.
teacher		Heard you got a scholarship.
mason		Yeah. Yeah, every little bit helps, you know.
teacher		Yeah.    When you gonna go out there?
mason		End of the summer I think. You know, work some more before then, try to save up some money, at least.
teacher		Yeah, before you have to fend for yourself.
mason		Yeah, yeah, that's the idea.
teacher		Yeah.    Well how're feeling about it?
mason		Excited, you know. But kind of half- excited, half-terrified.
teacher		Yeah, kind of that voluptuous panic.
mason		Yeah.   Exactly.
teacher		Well, it's gonna be good. It's gonna be crazy good. I liked college a lot better than high school. You kinda find your people in college, you know?
mason		Exactly.
teacher		Well you'll be fine, you've got a good heart. Just follow your heart, yeah?
mason		Thanks.
teacher		Good luck.     Don't forget to floss.
sheena		I just don't get why you're being so fucking childish.
mason		I'm not being childish. You're the one who made it into this big thing by telling everyone.
sheena		I haven't told anyone.
mason		So Cynthia just magically knows you're going to the prom with this loser even though you're not dating him anymore?
sheena		She's my best friend.
mason		Well, your best friend has a big fucking mouth.
sheena		Take it up with her, then.
mason		Why don't you just tell Miss Fuckin' Rubber Jaws she can keep on talking as long as she includes the truth, which is that we wouldn't be having this conversation if your college boyfriend weren't out of town this weekend.
sheena		You had already bought the tickets. It's just prom, it's not like it matters. I'm just tryin' to be friends with you.
mason		Now it's just humiliating.   I can't... I can't do that.
sheena		Mister I-Don't-Care-What-Anyone-Else- Thinks-Of-Me.
mason		Fuck anyone else. I care what I think of me. Which isn't much right now. King of the Pity Prom.
sheena		Fine.    We're not going.
mason		Great.
sheena		Why are we even... I mean, we both knew this was coming. I'm just the one who did something about it.
mason		Yeah, fucking some college guy...
sheena		Oh, fuck you!  I don't regret anything.
mason		 Of course you don't.
sheena		You know, it's actually kind of a relief not to have to be around someone who's so gloomy all the time. The world's not so horrible. Not everything's some big conspiracy against humanity.
sheena		He's not a jock, okay? He just happens to be on the lacrosse team. We're all going to other schools next year anyway, it's not some super serious relationship.
mason		Great.   I feel so much better now.
sheena		We're just having fun.
mason		I bet he's having fun.
sheena		Grow up, Mason.
mason		It's not like I haven't been with anyone else.
sheena		Who?
mason		What do you care?
sheena		Who?
mason		Does it matter?
sheena		You're the one who brought it up.
nick		Holy Crap, I would rather have my balls clawed off than ever sit through anything like that ever again!
mason		Well, we never, ever have to.
nick		Oh my god, thank you.
mason		Gimme that.
nick		Dude, it's all you. Drink up. So you coming out with me tonight, brother? Should be some pretty awesome stuff happening.
mason		Naw, dude, I'm goin' to this like, show with my dad in Austin. His friend's playing.
nick		Gosh, have fun with that, I guess.
mason		Fuck, there's so many cars here.    I don't wanna go in there.
nick		 Dude, you will have so much fun. Your family loves you. You'll have a swell time.
mason		Fuck you.   You're coming in with me.
nick		Oh, no.   Shit no.   No.
mason		Yes!   Yes, you are. My mom loves you.   You have to say hi.
nick		Just --
mason		Do you want to hurt her feelings?
nick		Mm-mm. 
mason		Well then, let's go get 'em.
nick		Just for a second.    Just a second, seriously.
uncle steve		You know you're in sort of in enemy territory here.
dad		 We're aware.
dad		Uh, look who's here!
all		 ...Whooo!
mom		Hey!
uncle steve		Get a job!
mom		No-no-no-no, wait. We're gonna take pictures. Put it back on.  Hey Nick!
grandma		Oh! Back on. Oh... Congratulations, baby.  I don't know you, but congratulations!
carol		Alright, look here...
mom		Smile.
carol		Here we go. Oh, that's a good one. And... good! Got it.
mom		Sam!
grandma		And where's Mason senior?   I'm feeling generous.  Come here.
carol		Great. And... beautiful! I'll email these to everyone.
dad		 No, don't even start, don't start, don't start.
mason		Can't believe you guys came all this way. It means a lot to me.
carol		We wouldn't have missed it for anything! I'm so proud of you. 
mason		No, no.   Tell him I said hi.
carol		I will.
samantha		Abby, I didn't even recognize you. How old are you now?
abby		I'm thirteen.
samantha		Wow.
professor douglas		 Alright, let's top her off. You want some, doll?
professor douglas		Yeah, sure why not.
mason		What is it?
mason		Yeah.
mason		Yeah, yeah.    That's her.
uncle steve		It'll be -- three second rule.   Put it on your plate.
uncle steve		I know, I'm trying to help.
guests		 Whoo! Yeah! Alright!
mom		Now Mason, I know you really didn't want to have a party today but... we did.
all		To Mason! 
uncle steve		 Alright, you're up, kid.
dad		Oh, uh... Alright, uh, well... Mason, I'll make a toast to the future. To your future. You know, it's been a little sketchy this... end of the school year here, trying to figure out what school to go to. Mason told me that, uh, he wanted...to get as far away from home as possible. But still honor our agreement that we pay in-state tuition, which I do appreciate. He's a prudent man, and uh, he's going to have a great future. So, here's to you buddy.
guests		 Whoo! Future!
dad		Congratulations.
uncle steve		Mason Junior! High school graduate, eighteen and straight! Ha-ha-ha!
dad		Alright, that's enough. Just ignore him. My brother needs to learn to pace himself.
mom		Sam, say something!
grandma		Come on, darlin'.
samantha		 Good luck?
professor douglas		So you broke up with your girlfriend?
mason		Yeah, yeah, just recently.
professor douglas		What was her name?
mason		Sheena.
professor douglas		Sheena. She's... gonna go to college with you?
mason		No.
professor douglas		No, oh.
mason		She's staying in this part of Texas.
professor douglas		Oh, okay.   You need a ride to college?
grandma		I just wanted to say hello before you got out of here. I haven't gotten a chance --
dad		You guys met before, haven't you? Annie, Catherine...
annie		Yeah, yeah, we met at uh--
grandma		Sam's graduation.
dad		Oh yeah.
annie		Yes, that's right.
grandma		And with your little one.    Where is he?
annie		Oh, he's at home.
dad		Yeah, yeah. Remember, he was such a pain at Sam's thing that, you know...
grandma		Oh, I would love to see him.
annie		Well, we have a special weekend this weekend, so...
grandma		I'm so glad you found her. I really am.  You, you've got him at a good time, I think.
annie		I think so, too.
grandma		Yeah.   It's good to see you two.
dad		Nice to see you, too, Catherine.
grandma		I'm so proud of your boy.
dad		Yeah, yeah we all are.
uncle steve		You got to remember, you're going to college, though, alright? And if you're anything like me or your old man, you're gonna be pulling down some serious wool. You're gonna be tapping some masterful gap.
dad		Steven...
uncle steve		You're gonna be doing some good work out there. Think about it, awful lot of flowers in that bouquet. But, you gotta do me a favor. You're going to be vulnerable this summer, alright. Remember to use protection during breakup sex.
dad		Steven...
uncle steve		 Cheers.
dad		It's not that simple.
uncle steve		 Four more years. Four more years. I'm just saying.
dad		Do y'all recycle?   Should I --
mom		I have one started there.
dad		Oh, yeah, right. Okay, great. Okay. Am I, uh, am I your only ex at this party?
mom		Yes, but I'm not your only wife here, though.
dad		Yeah.
mom		Can you believe they're both out of high school?
dad		No.  No, I can't.  You did a great job with both of them, by the way.
mom		Thanks for saying that. I never thought I'd hear you say that.
dad		Well, it's true.    Thank you.
mom		And you're doing it all over again, huh?
dad		I know, I know, right? It's gonna be uh, fifteen years till I have an empty nest. But hey, I'd love to pitch in, help with this, if I could. 
mom		Sure.   Yeah.
dad		Yeah. But I don't have any cash. It's in Annie's purse. I'll be right back.
dad		...So it sucks. I mean, the guy's a college lacrosse player. I mean, what are you gonna do?
mason		She didn't even like sports.
dad		You want a beer?
mason		No, that's alright.
dad		You can have one.
mason		It's okay.
dad		Yeah, well, for what it's worth, we've all been through the exact same thing, at one point or another.
mason		It's not the same, though.     I mean, you never got to know her.
dad		No, I know, I know.    It's not the same.
mason		I just don't know what I did wrong.
dad		Hey, Jimmy.    Hey, man.   Hey --
jimmy		Hey, Mason.
dad		We're up here raiding the green room. Hope that's okay.
jimmy		That's totally cool.
dad		Alright.
jimmy		Wow!   Is that M.J.?
dad		Uh-huh.    Right?
jimmy		Unbelievable.
dad		Well, we just decided to come a little early, check you out.
jimmy		That's cool man, let me finish up, I'll be up in a minute.
dad		Alright, alright.
mason		Yeah, but still --
dad		Look, and I also guarantee you that every day of your life that you spend crying over some silly girl is a complete waste of time.
mason		She wasn't a silly girl, though.   I mean, she's a serious person. I really thought we were --
dad		What?
mason		I don't know.
dad		Here's the truth. Women are never satisfied. Ok? They're always looking to potentially trade up and that's, I'm sorry to say, what I think has happened to you my fine feathered friend.
mason		What does that even mean?
dad		It means don't hand over the controls to your self-esteem to Sheila.
mason		Sheena.
dad		Alright. It means you are responsible for you, not your girlfriend, not your mom, not me. You. And if you truly take care of you, you will be amazed at how much girls like Sheena start lining up at your front door.
mason		Great.
dad		Yeah, you know, you just gotta separate yourself from the pack in some way. Excel at something, you know, and then you have your pick of the litter when them front-running hussies start sniffing around.
mason		So what you're saying is, I should take up lacrosse.
dad		Exactly. Or you could, you know, start a band. Worked for me a long time ago. I think it's still working for Jimmy. Or you just keep taking pictures.
mason		She hated the pictures I took of her.
dad		Alright. I'm sick to death of her, okay? I only met her a few times and yes she was cute, alright. But, truth be told I always thought she was a little bit, you know, a little bit too square for you. Y'know, not quite the same vibe.
mason		You really thought that?
dad		On some subtle, lower level. I mean, uh, I wasn't surprised when it turned out she was interested in some knucklehead lacrosse player, okay? I mean, bottom line is, it's all timing with these things. Y'know. I mean, uh, take your mom and me. Y'know I think I probably turned into the boring castrated guy she wanted me to be fifteen or twenty years ago, y'know? And man I'm not saying she was wrong to be pissed. I'm not, I'm just saying that, y'know, she could have been a little more patient... a little more forgiving.
mason		Would've saved me that parade of drunken assholes.
dad		Of what?
mason		I don't know, any of this. Everything.
dad		Everything? What's the point? I mean I sure as shit don't know. I mean, but, neither does anybody else. Okay, we're all just winging it, you know? I mean the good news is you're feeling stuff. You know? And you got to hold onto that. You do. I mean you get older and you don't feel as much. You're skin gets tougher. The point is those pictures you took. Thousands of submissions from all over the state and you won.
mason		Well, I got silver.   And nine other people did, too.
dad		I'm gonna kill you. I'm tryin' to tell you that I believe in you, Mason. I think you're really special, and if some girl doesn't see that, then fuck her, y'know?
dad		Woo-oho!
jimmy		Known him since he was just a small boy, now he's all graduated from high school, making me feel old. Happy high school graduation, Mason.
mom		Thank you. Okay guys, let's be clear. I'm going to break this into four categories. One. Anything you wanna keep from your childhood and your taking with you. Two. Throwing away. Three. Donating. Four. Whatever you wanna try to sell at the garage sell next weekend, whatever we don't sell, we're donating.
mason		Doesn't the apartment have like an attic, or storage or something?
mom		No. You're missing the point. We're not going to drag a bunch of crap to mom's tiny apartment.
samantha		Can't believe we're moving again.
mom		No, I'm moving! You moved two years ago. You have an apartment in Austin. Mason is moving the fall. I'm done. This will be great for me. I'll have all these options. I could take a sabbatical. I could get some writing done and try to get published.
mason		What about Christmas, though?   What are we gonna do?
samantha		I'm not sharing a room with him.
mom		One of you will sleep on the couch, and we'll use that blow-up mattress.
samantha		How am I supposed to do my laundry?
mom		Sam, I'm gently pushing you out of the nest. 
mason		I'm gonna get the veggie burger.
samantha		I'm not having anything, not hungry.
mom		What's wrong with you?
samantha		I'm sick.
mom		What is it, your head?   Do you have a fever?
mason		She's pregnant.
samantha		 No. To be honest, I drank way too much last night.
mom		You weren't driving, were you?
samantha		No. No. Carrie's back home, too, and we just hung out. You know, peach Smirnoffs, they just go down so easy.
mom		No, no. Hey - that's not an excuse. You can still pack boxes. These people want to move in as soon as possible.
ernesto		Hi guys. I'm Ernesto, how are you?  Uh, you probably don't remember me, but I worked on your septic line years ago.
mom		Oh, yeah.
ernesto		Believe it or not, you changed my life. Yeah, you told me that day that I was smart and that I should go to school. I took your advice! I signed up for English classes and then a year later I went to community college and I got my associates degree. And I'm working on my bachelors now at Texas State. And I'm also one of the managers here.
mom		That's great.
ernesto		Uh, it's good to see you. Because I really wanted a chance to thank you for that. Gracias. It really meant a lot to me. Don't worry about lunch. It's on me. It's the least I can do.
mom		Thanks.
ernesto		You guys should listen to her.   She's a smart lady.
mom		Thank you.
mason		...Isn't that kind of crazy though, that a computer knows who you are from just twenty questions off a form? I guess there are really only like eight types of people in the world.
mom		Have you even talked to this guy yet?
mason		No, but we've been trading emails. He seems pretty cool. He's studying literature, and uh, anthropology, and he's way into Bright Eyes... so that's not so bad. But anyways, he was telling me about how the system they use for assigning roommates is kind of spooky. Like, the Freshmen satisfaction rate for new roommates used to be like 60%, and now it's 100%. Just cause of the computer.
mom		Well. Sounds like he'll be a good roommate, then.
mason		Yeah. But we've pretty much decided that soon they won't even need a questionnaire. Because they'll just let the NSA scan your digital ghost, and they'll tell you who your roommate is, based on everything you've ever said, written, or clicked.
mom		Come on, it's the first picture you ever took.
mason		Well, I mean, all the more reason to leave it behind, right?
mom		 Nothing.
mason		No, what is it?
mom		Nothing!
mason		Mom...
mom		This is the worst day of my life.
mason		What are you talking about?
mom		I knew this day was coming. I just -- I didn't know you were gonna be so fuckin' happy to be leaving.
mason		I mean, it's not that I'm that happy. What do you, what do you expect?
mom		You know what I'm realizing? My life is just gonna go, like that! This series of milestones. Getting married, having kids, getting divorced, the time that we thought you were dyslexic, when I taught you how to ride a bike, getting divorced AGAIN, getting my masters degree, finally getting the job I wanted, sending Samantha off to college, sending YOU off the college... You know what's next? Huh? It's my fuckin' funeral!
mason		Aren't you jumping ahead by like, forty years or something?
mom		I just thought there would be more.
dalton		Hey, you must be Mason.
mason		Yeah.   Dalton, right?
dalton		Yeah, man, it's nice to finally meet you.
mason		Definitely.
dalton		Are you cool with this side of the room?
mason		Yeah.
dalton		Got in this morning, just moved my shit in, man.
mason		 Well, yeah. I don't- I don't care. No worries.
dalton		Cool. Can I help with anything, man? Any bags? Any last stuff you need brought in?
mason		I just got like one... box left, I packed pretty light. But I appreciate it.
dalton		My pleasure, man. Of course.
mason		Um, are you goin' to the orientation mixer thing?
dalton		Orientation mixer thing? Fuck no, man! I'm not goin' to that and neither are you, by the way. We got way better stuff to be doin', dude.
barb		You ready?
dalton		Yeah. Hey, Barb, this' my roommate Mason. Mason, Barb.
mason		Hi.
barb		Hey.   You comin' with us?
mason		Where're you going?
barb		Hiking.
dalton		Yeah, man, you should come. If we leave now we can catch the late afternoon at Big Bend. You ever been before, man?
mason		Yeah. But not since I was really little.
dalton		Oh, well then all the more reason to come now, man. That's why we're here, dude.
nicole		Hey, what's up?
mason		Hi.
dalton		Mason, Nicole.
barb		 So, you game?
mason		Sure.
barb		Here. Have the rest of this. Got it timed perfectly. It'll kick in when we get to the mountains.
mason		Awesome.
mason		Do they let you major in that here?
nicole		Well, it's not that serious here, so I kinda like train outside the university, but I'm taking all my basics like History of Dance and all that.
mason		Nice.
nicole		Yeah.
mason		What do you teach?
nicole		Oh, gosh. Ballet, tap, jazz, lyrical, hip-hop...
mason		Wow.    Which one's your favorite?
nicole		Tap.
mason		Yeah?
nicole		Yeah. You can make up all your own sounds and there's no rules.
mason		Right...
nicole		Just, like, creative freedom.
mason		That's great.
nicole		Yeah.
mason		Right.
nicole		... So to be a part of bringing it back to the kids...
mason		Right, keep it going.
nicole		... Is really rewarding.   Yeah.
mason		How old are they?
nicole		Six to eight.
mason		 Wow.
nicole		 Yeah. They have like no fear, and they're not self-conscious at all.
mason		They haven't reached the awkward years yet.
nicole		Yeah, not yet. It's coming.
nicole		Hey.
mason		He seems cool, though.
nicole		Yeah.     Yeah, they're both really cool.     How are you feeling?
mason		Great.    Really great, to be honest.
nicole		Good. I'm really happy that you're hangin' out with us.
mason		Yeah.     Me too.
nicole		You know how everyone's always saying, "Seize the moment"?
mason		Yeah. Yeah, I know. It's constant, the moments, it's just... it's like always right now, you know?
nicole		Yeah.
****Dialogues from script :Braveheart.txt****

voice over		I will tell you of William Wallace.
voice over		Historians from England will say I am a liar. But history is written by those who have hung heroes.
voice over		The King of Scotland had died without a son, and the king of England, a cruel pagan known as Edward the Longshanks, claimed the throne for himself. Scotlands nobles fought him, and fought each other, over the crown. So Longshanks invited them to talks of truce. No weapons, one page only.
voice over		Among the farmers of that shire was Malcolm Wallace, a commoner, with his own lands and two sons: John...
voice over		...and William.
father		Told ya to stay.
william		I finished my chores. Where we goin'?
father		MacAndrews'. He was supposed to visit when the truce was over.
father		Stay here.
father		MacAndrews!... MacAndrews!?
father		MacAndrews.
john		William! Get out of here!
william		Why would MacAndrews make so many scarecrows?
william		R -- real!!!... Ahhhhhgggg!...
father		William! William!
father		Murderin' English bastards.
ghoul		Will--iam...!
campbell		Wallace is right! We fight 'em!
macclannough		Every nobleman who had any will to fight was at that meeting.
malcolm wallace		So it's up to us! We show them we won't lie down to be their slaves!
macclannough		We can't beat an army, not with the fifty farmers we can raise!
malcolm wallace		We don't have to beat 'em, just fight 'em. To show 'em we're not dogs, but men.
malcolm wallace		They have a camp here. We attack them at sunset tomorrow. Give us all night to run home.
malcolm		William, you're staying here.
william		I can fight.
malcolm		Aye. But it's our wits that make us men. I love ya, boy. You stay.
william		They're coming!
hamish		How many?
william		Three, maybe more!
hamish		Armed?
william		They're English soldiers, ain't they?
hamish		With your father and brother gone, they'll kill us and burn the farm!
william		It's up to us, Hamish!
william		Not yet! Here he comes, be ready!
hamish		Wanna stay with me tonight?
william		I wanna have supper waitin'.
hamish		We'll get those English pigs tomorrow.
william		Aye, we'll get 'em.
campbell		William... Come down here, lad.
priest		...Restare in pacem eternis, Amen.
priest		You must be the relative of the deceased... William, this is your Uncle Argyle.
argyle		You were wise to hurry.
leader		Someone dead from this household?
argyle		We just had a funeral, isn't that what it means in England as well?
leader		What it means in England -- and in Scotland too -- is that rebels have forfeited their lands. We were ambushed last night. But the Scots dragged their dead away.
argyle		My brother and nephew perished two days ago, when their hay cart turned over.
leader		Then we'll just have a peek at the wounds.  Dig 'em up!
argyle		They've been sanctified and buried in the holy rites of God's church, and any hand that disturbs them now takes on eternal damnation. So please -- do it.
argyle		Funeral's over. Go home.
argyle		Not that spoon, that one's for soup. Dip away from you. And don't slurp.
argyle		We'll sleep here tonight. You'll come home with me. We'll let the house, and the lands too; plenty of willing neighbors.
william		I don't want to leave.
argyle		Didn't want your father to die either, did ya? But it happened.
argyle		Did the priest say anything about the Resurrection? Or was it all about Judgment?
william		It was in Latin, sir.
argyle		Non loquis Latinum? You don't speak Latin? We have to fix that, won't we?  ...It was Malcolm's favorite.
william		Good night, Uncle.
argyle		"The Lord bless thee and keep thee..."
william		What are they doing?
argyle		Saying goodbye in their own way -- in outlawed tartans, with outlawed pipes, playing outlawed tunes.
argyle		Your Daddy and I, we saw our own father buried like this, dead from fighting the English.
argyle		First learn to use this.
argyle		Then I will teach you to use this.
voice over		Twelve years later, Longshanks supervised the wedding of his eldest son, also named Edward, who would succeed him to the throne.
voice over		As bride for his son, Longshanks had chosen a relative of his rival, the king of France.
voice over		It was widely whispered that for the Princess to conceive, Longshanks would have to do the honors himself. That may have been what he had in mind all along.
voice over		Having seen to his obligations to provide for a successor, Longshanks set about his fondest business -- to crush Scotland, and turn his power against France...
longshanks		Scotland! Scot-land!
longshanks		The French will grovel to anyone with strength! But how will they credit our strength when we cannot rule the whole of our own island?!
longshanks		Where is my son?
princess		Your pardon, M'lord, he asked me to come in his stead.
longshanks		I sent for him -- and the little coward send you?!
princess		Shall I leave, M'lord?
longshanks		If he wants his queen to rule, then you stay and learn how! I will deal with him.
longshanks		Nobles are the key to the Scottish door. Grant their nobles land here in England. Give our own nobles estates in the north. Make them too greedy to oppose us.
old advisor		Sire... Our nobles will be reluctant to relocate. New lands mean new taxes, and they are taxed already for our war in France.
longshanks		Perhaps it's time to reinstitute an old custom. Grant them prima noctes, "First night." When any common girl inhabiting their lands is married, our lords shall have sexual rights to her on the night of her wedding. That should fetch just the kind of lords we want in Scotland.
edward		What is it?!
princess		You directed me to report to you the moment the king's conference was ended.
edward		So I did! And what was so important about it?
princess		Scotland. He intends --
princess		He intends to grant --
edward		Shut up, would you! How can I concentrate?!
princess		...His majesty was quite keen that you should understand --
edward		All so very boring! He wants me to learn to fight too, so let me do it!
edward		Stop there.
edward		Do you disapprove of Phillip?
princess		 No, M'lord.
edward		Look at me. I said LOOK AT ME!
edward		Now, my flower, do you understand?
princess		Yes. I had thought that... I was loathsome to you. Perhaps I am. If I may be excused, M'lord.
edward		You may.
edward		Don't worry, m'Lady, it is my royal responsibility to breed. And I assure you, when the time comes, I shall... manage.
voice over		Now in Edinburgh were gathered the council of Scottish nobles...
voice over		Among these was Robert, the 17th Earl of Bruce, a leading contender for the crown of Scotland.
craig		Young Robert, we are honored --
robert		My father hears that Longshanks has granted prima noctes.
craig		Clearly meant to draw more of his supporters here.
mornay		The Balliol clan has endorsed the right, licking Longshanks' boots so he will support their claim to the throne. If we make a show of opposition, the commoners will favor us.
robert		It is too soon to step out alone. My father believes we must lull Longshanks into confidence, by neither supporting his decree nor opposing it.
craig		A wise plan. And how is your father? We have missed him at the council.
robert		He strained his leg so that it pains him to ride. But he sends his greetings -- and says that I speak for all the Bruces. And for Scotland.
soldier		Hey boy! You hunt this bird?
soldier		It's against the law for Scots to own bows. You shot this bird?
william		I hit it in the head. With a rock.
william		Miz MacDougal. You look well.
farm woman		...William? It's William Wallace, back home! -- Have you met my daughter?
william		Hamish?
hamish		Test of manhood.
william		You win.
hamish		 Call it a test of soldiery, then. The English won't let us train with weapons, so we train with stones.
william		The test of a soldier is not in his arm. It's here.
hamish		No. It's here.
william		A contest, then.
william		I still say this is no test. A catapult can throw a stone farther than a man can.
hamish		That depends on the man.
william		Can you do it when it matters? As it matters in battle? Could you crush a man with that throw?
hamish		I could crush you like a roach.
william		Then do it. Come, do it.
hamish		You'll move
william		I will not.
farmer stewart		That's not fair!
campbell		He's tired, he should get a longer run.
campbell		Brave show!
hamish		I threw longer than last time!
campbell		An ox is strong, but not clever.
hamish		An ox is stupid enough to just stand in one place.
william		That's not the point.
william		That is.
campbell		A fine display, young Wallace!
william		Good to see you again.
hamish		I should'a remembered the eggs.
william		Would you honor me with a dance?
girl		You've taken over your father's farm?  They say he died long ago. Fighting the English.
william		He died in an accident, with my brother. Their cart turned over.
nobleman		I have come to claim the right of prima noctes. As the lord of these lands, I will bless this marriage by taking the bride into my bed on the first night of her union.
stewart		No, by God!
nobleman		It is my noble right.
william		Good evening, sir. May I speak with your daughter?
william		Marion... Would you like to go for a ride on this fine evening?
mother		The boy's insane!
william		It's good Scottish weather, Madam, the rain is fallin' straight down.
mother		She absolutely may not, she'll -- Marion!
william		Your father doesn't like me, does he?
marion		It's not you. He dislikes that you're a Wallace. He just says... the Wallaces don't seem to live for very long.
william		Thank you for accepting.
marion		Thank you for inviting.
william		I'll invite you again, but your mother thinks I'm crazy.
marion		You are. And I'll come again.
mother		Marion, come in!
mother		Marion, come in!
macclannough		Young Wallace --
william		Sir, I know it was strange of me to invite Marion to ride last night. I assure you, I --
campbell		MacClannough's daughter is another matter. We come to fetch you to a meeting.
william		What kind of meeting?
campbell		The secret kind.
campbell		Your father was a fighter. And a patriot.
william		I know who my father was. I came back home to raise crops. And, God willing, a family. If I can live in peace, I will.
macclannough		If you can keep your intention to stay out of the troubles, you may court my daughter. If you break your intention, I'll kill you.
marion		You've been here before?
william		Some nights. I have dreams. Mostly dreams I don't want. I started riding at night to fill up my mind so that when I did sleep I'd dream only of the ride and the adventure.
marion		Did it work?
william		No. You don't choose your dreams. Your dreams choose you.
william		I want... to marry you!
marion		I... accept your proposal!
william		I'm not just saying it!
marion		Nor I!
william		But I won't give you up to any nobleman.
marion		 You scare me.
william		I don't want to scare you. I want to be yours, and you mine. Every night like this one.
marion		This night is too beautiful to have again.
william		I will be with you, like this. Forever.
priest		You have come to pledge, each to the other, before Almighty God.
william		I will love you my whole life. You and no other.
marion		And I you. You and no other. Forever.
priest		Agus bhayd lauch... The Lord bless and keep thy love, now and forever.
priest		I trust him -- or I'd'a killed him me'self. A weddin' needs pipes.
william		I've missed you.
marion		Shush. It's only been a day.  And it's seemed like forever.
william		Tonight then.
marion		My parents are growing suspicious! I can't keep meeting you every night!
william		Then when?
marion		...Tonight!
soldier		Where are you going... lass?
marion		Let go.
marion		William!
market women		Wallace Wallace! William Wallace!
fallen soldier		Rebels! Help!
village folks		Run, William! Run!
magistrate		What happened?
soldier		...girl.
magistrate		What girl?!
soldier		...on horse.
magistrate		The girl on the horse! Stop her!
magistrate		So this is the little whore he was fighting for.
william		Marion!
magistrate		One Scot buggers six of us? Hell to pay when that gets round.
corporal		Burn the village.
magistrate		But he is free. You never catch 'em in the Highlands.
corporal		Clans weave that cloth in their own patterns.
magistrate		So why is this strip concealed?  He fought for you, eh?
magistrate		An assault on the king's soldiers is the same as assaulting the king!
magistrate		Now. Let this scrapper come to me.
magistrate		Don't look surprised! We knew he'd bring friends!
magistrate		No! I beg you... mercy!
magistrate		Please. Mercy!
campbell		Say Grace to God, lads. We've just seen the coming of the Messiah.
crowd		AHHHHHHH-UHHHHHH! AHHHHHH-UHHHHHH!
campbell		Pour it straight into the wound. I know it seems a waste of good whiskey, but indulge me.
campbell		Ah. Now that'll clear your sinuses, lads.
campbell		Well bloody Hell, look at this! Now it's nothing but a fly swatter.
campbell		MacGregor -- from the next valley!
macgregor		We heard about what was happenin'. And we don't want ya thinkin' ya can have your fun without us.
wallace		Go home. Some of us are in this, I can't help that now. But you can help yourselves. Go home.
macgregor		We'll have no homes left when the English garrison at the castle comes through to burn us out.
lord bottoms		Gather the horses! Align the infantry!  Ride to the Lord Governor in Stirling.
lord bottoms		Stop them... Don't let... Align...
wallace		On your way somewhere, M'lord?
lord bottoms		Murdering bloody bandit!
wallace		My name is William Wallace. I am no bandit who hides his face... Find this man a horse.
wallace		Give him a horse.
wallace		Not this horse. That one.
wallace		Today we will spare you, and every man who has yielded. Go back to England. Tell them Scotland's daughters and her sons are yours no more. Tell them Scotland is free.
scots		Wal-lace, Wal-lace, Wal-lace!...
longshanks		Scottish rebels have routed Lord Bottoms!
edward		I hear. This Wallace is a bandit, nothing more.
longshanks		You weak little coward! Stand up!
longshanks		I go to France to press our rights there! I leave you to handle this little rebellion, do you understand? DO YOU?!
longshanks		And turn yourself into a man.
edward		Get away from me!
edward		Convene my military council!
nicolette		They say this Wallace killed thirty men to avenge the death of his woman. I hope your husband goes to Scotland. Then you'll be a widow.
woman		I wanted to please you.
robert		You did.
robert		In Lanark village, the king's soldiers killed a girl. Her lover fought his way through the soldiers and killed the magistrate.
robert		He rebelled. He rebelled. He acted. He fought! Was it rage? Pride? Love? Whatever it was, he has more of it than I.
woman		 You might have lied.
robert		I'm too arrogant to lie.
the leper		Under whom?
robert		A commoner named William Wallace.
the leper		A commoner? So no one leads Scotland?
the leper		You will embrace this rebellion. Support it, from our lands in the north. I will gain English favor by condemning it and ordering it opposed from our lands in the south. Whichever way the tide runs, we will rise.
robert		This Wallace. He doesn't even have a knighthood. But he fights with passion, and he is clever. He inspires men.
the leper		You admire him. Uncompromising men are easy to admire. He has courage. So does a dog. But you must understand this: Edward Longshanks is the most ruthless king ever to sit on the throne of England, and none of us, and nothing of Scotland, will survive unless we are as ruthless, more ruthless, than he.
the leper		Press your case to the nobles. They will choose who rules Scotland.
hamish		Ah, William... I am so sorry.
hamish		I'll wait... back there.
wallace		Hamish, I... thank...
campbell		What're ya doin'?
wallace		Thinking.
campbell		Does it hurt?
wallace		What do we do when Longshanks sends his whole northern army against us? They have heavy cavalry. Armored horses, that shake the very ground. They'll ride right over us.
wallace		We make spears. A hundred spears. Fourteen feet long.
hamish		Fourteen? --
wallace		Stand up, man, I'm not the Pope.
faudron		I am Faudron! My sword is yours! And I brought you this tarta --
sentry		We checked them for arms.
faudron		It's your family tartan! My wife wove it with her own hands.
wallace		Thank her for me.
voice		Him? That can't be William Wallace! I'm prettier than this man!
stephen		All right, Father, I'll ask him!  If I risk my neck for you, will I get a chance to kill Englishmen?
hamish		Is your Poppa a ghost -- or do you converse with God Almighty?
stephen		In order to find his equal, and Irishman is forced to talk to God.  The Almighty says don't change the subject, just answer the fookin' question.
campbell		Insane Irish --
stephen		Smart enough to get a dagger past your guards, old man.
wallace		That's my friend, Irishman. And the answer's yes. You fight for me, you kill the English.
stephen		Excellent! Stephen is my name. I'm the most wanted man on the Emerald Isle. Except I'm not on the Emerald Isle of course, more's the pity.
hamish		A common thief.
stephen		A patriot!
scout		Scotsmen, Sire! Headed west!
dolecroft		They've blundered at last! After them!
scout		We're in a bog!
dolecroft		Here, it's firm this way --
wallace		Stop here and rest.
pickering		Another ambush! My God! ...What about our infiltrator?
assistant		He has already joined them, M'lord.
wallace		Marion! Is... is it you?
wallace		I'm dreaming.
marion		Yes, you are. And you must wake.
wallace		I don't want to wake. I want to stay with you.
marion		And I with you. But you must wake.
wallace		I need you so much! I love you!
marion		Wake up, William. Wake up!
hamish's voice		Wake up, William!...
hamish		William! Hounds!
stephen		We must run in different directions!
hamish		We don't split up!
stephen		They used hounds on us in Ireland, it's the only way!
wallace		He's right, Hamish! Campbell! Divide them and run!
wallace		Split again!
wallace		No matter how we go, they follow. They have our scent. My scent.
faudron		Run! You must not be caught!
stephen		We can't stop!
wallace		They've tricked us.
stephen		What's the crazy man saying, Lord?
wallace		The dogs have a scent. My scent. Someone must have given it to them.
stephen		Who would do such a thing?
wallace		Exactly.
handler		Be ready! We have them!
lord pickering		Damnation! Damnation!
lord pickering		After him! Get them going again!
handler		Their noses are drowned in new blood, they'll follow nothing now!
stephen		I thought I was dead when ya pulled that dagger!
wallace		No English lord would trust an Irishman!
hamish		Let's kill him anyway.
villager		...and William Wallace killed fifty men! Fifty, if it was one!
farmer		A hundred men! With his own sword! He cut a through the English like --
drinker		-- Moses through the Red Sea! Hacked off two hundred heads!
drinker		Saw it with my own eyes.
nicolette		When the king returns he will bury them in those new clothes. Scotland is in chaos. Your husband is secretly sending an army north.
princess		How do you know this?
nicolette		Last night I slept with a member of the War Council.
princess		He shouldn't be telling secrets in bed.
nicolette		Ah, Oui! Englishmen don't know what a tongue is for.
princess		This Scottish rebel... Wallace? He fights to avenge a woman?
nicolette		A magistrate wished to capture him, and found he had a secret lover, so he cut the girl's throat to tempt Wallace to fight -- and fight he did.
nicolette		Knowing his passion for his lost love, they next plotted to take him by desecrating the graves of his father and brother and setting an ambush at the grave of his wife. He fought his way through the trap and carried her body to a secret place! Now that is romance, Oui?
princess		...I wouldn't know.
runner		The English are advancing an army toward Stirling!
wallace		Do the nobles rally?
runner		Robert the Bruce and most of the others will not commit to war! But word has spread and Highlanders are coming down on their own, by the hundreds -- by the thousands!
people		Wallace! It's William Wallace! God bless Wallace and Scotland!
lochlan		It sounds like twenty thousand!
mornay		The scouts say it is ten.
lochlan		And we have but two!
young soldier		So many!
scottish veteran		The nobles will negotiate. If they deal, they send us home. If not, we charge. When we are all dead and they can call themselves brave, they withdraw.
young soldier		I didn't come to fight so they could own more lands that I could work for them!
veteran		Nor did I. Not against these odds!
lochlan		Stop! Men! Do not flee! Not now! Wait until we have negotiated!
mornay		They won't stop -- and who could blame them?
young soldier		William Wallace?
veteran		Couldn't be.
stephen		The Almighty says this must be a fashionable fight, it's drawn the finest people.
lochlan		Where is thy salute?
wallace		For presenting yourselves on this battlefield, I give you thanks.
lochlan		This is our army. To join it, you give homage.
wallace		I give homage to Scotland. And if this is your army, why does it go?
scottish veteran		We didn't come to fight for them!
wallace		Sons of Scotland!... I am William Wallace!
soldier		William Wallace is seven feet tall!
wallace		Yes, I have heard! He kills men by the hundreds! And if he were here, he would consume the English with fireballs from his eyes, and bolts of lightning from his ass!
wallace		I am William Wallace. And my enemies do not go away. I saw our good nobles hanged. My wife... I am William Wallace. And I see a whole army of my countrymen, here in defiance of tyranny. You have come to fight as free men. And free men you are! What will you do with freedom? Will you fight?
veteran		Two thousand, against ten? We will run -- and live!
wallace		Yes. Fight and you may die. Run and you will live, at least awhile. And dying in your bed many years from now, would you be willing to trade all the days from this day to that, for one chance to come back here as young men, and tell our enemies that they make take our lives, but they will never take our freedom?
veteran		Look! The English comes to barter with our nobles for castles and titles. And our nobles will not be in the front of the battle!
wallace		No! They will not!
wallace		And I will.
scots		Wal-lace! Wal-lace! WAL-LACE!
stephen		Fine speech. Now what do we do?
wallace		Bring out our spearmen and set them in the field.
cheltham		Mornay. Lochlan. Inverness.
mornay		Cheltham. This is William Wallace
cheltham		Here are the King's terms. Lead this army off the field, and he will give you each estates in Yorkshire, including hereditary title, from which you will pay him an annual --
wallace		I have an offer for you.
cheltham		...From which you will pay the King an annual duty...
lochlan		You disrespect a banner of truce?!
wallace		From his king? Absolutely. Here are Scotland's terms. Lower your flags and march straight to England, stopping at every Scottish home you pass to beg forgiveness for a hundred years of theft, rape, and murder. Do that, and your men shall live. Do it not, and every one of you will die today.
cheltham		You are outmatched! You haven't even any cavalry! In two centuries no army has won without it!
wallace		I'm not finished. Before we let you leave, your commander must cross that bridge, stand before this army, put his head between his legs, and kiss his own ass.
mornay		I'd say that was rather less cordial that he was used to.
wallace		Be ready, and do exactly as I say.
hamish		Wish I could see the noble lord's face when he tells him.
talmadge		Insolent bastard! Full attack! Give no quarter! And I want this Wallace's heart brought to me on a plate!
stephen		The Lord tell me He can get me out of this mess. But He's pretty sure you're fooked.
talmadge		Amateurs! They do not even contest us! Send across the infantry.
general		M'lord, the bridge is so narrow --
talmadge		The Scots just stand in their formations!
wallace		Steady! Hold... hold... NOW!
wallace		FORM!
wallace		Here I am, English coward! Come get me!!
talmadge		Press the men across!
cheltham		But M'lord!
talmadge		PRESS THEM!
wallace		Tell Mornay to ride to the flank and cross upstream. Wait! Tell him to be sure the English see him ride away!
lochlan		If he waits much longer --
hamish		Ride around and ford behind them!
mornay		We should not divide our forces!
hamish		Wallace says do it! And he says for you to let the English see you!
mornay		 They shall think we run away.
talmadge		See! Every Scot with a horse is fleeing! Hurry! Hurry!
wallace		For Scotland!
talmadge		Press reinforcements across!
mornay		He's taking the bloody bridge! The English can't get across! He's evened the odds at one stroke!
talmadge		Use the archers!
general		They're too close, we'll shoot out own men!
general		We are still five thousand! Rally!
scottish soldiers		Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!
elder		I knight thee Sir William Wallace.
crowd		Wal-lace, Wal-lace!!
robert		Does anyone know his politics?
craig		No. But his weight with the commoners could unbalance everything. The Balliols will kiss his ass, so we must.
steward		Lords of Scotland: Sir William Wallace!
craig		Sir William. In the name of God, we declare and appoint thee High Protector of Scotland! And thy captains as aides decamp!
balliol		Sir William!! Inasmuch as you and your captains hail from a region long known to support the Balliol clan, may we invite you to join us?
wallace		You are Robert the Bruce.
wallace		My father fought in support of yours.
balliol		With this new success, the result of all of Scotland's efforts, now is the time to declare a king!
mornay		Then you are prepared to recognize our legitimate succession!
balliol		You're the ones who won't support the true claim! I demand consideration of these documents!
mornay		Those were lies when they were written! Our documents prove absolutely that --
craig		Sir William! Where are you going?
william		We have beaten the English! But they'll come back, because you won't stand together. There is one clan in this country -- Scotsmen. One class -- free. One price -- courage.
craig		But... what will you do?
wallace		I will invade England. And defeat the English on their own ground.
craig		Invade?! That's impossible, it --
wallace		LISTEN TO ME! Longshanks understands this! This!
wallace		There is a difference between us. You think the people of this country exist to provide you with position. I think your position exists to provide the people with freedom. And I go to make sure they have it.
robert		Wait! ...I respect what you said. But remember, these men have lands, castles. Much to risk.
wallace		And the common man who bleeds on the battlefield, does he risk less?
robert		No. But from top to bottom this country has no sense of itself. Its nobles share allegiance with England and its clans war with each other. If you make enemies on both sides of the border, you'll end up dead.
wallace		We all end up dead. It's only a question of how. And why.
robert		I'm no coward! I want what you want! But we need the nobles.
wallace		Nobles? What does that mean -- to be noble? Your title gives you claim to the throne of our country. But men don't follow titles, they follow courage! Your arm speaks louder than your tongue. Our people know you. Noble and common, they respect you. If you would lead them toward freedom, they would follow you. And so would I.
captain		Message from your cousin, the Prince. He says London has no more troops to send.
governor		Every town in Northern England is begging for help! Where will Wallace strike first?
captain		I should think these smaller settlements along the border...
rider		He advances!
governor		To what town?
rider		He comes here!
governor		We will not allow a bandit to panic the greatest city in Northern England! Close off the escapes! Let no one leave!
captain		The city has emptied already, Sire. Only the Scottish civilians remain.
wallace		Back! Wait for it to burn!
captain		They've breached the wall!
governor		Then do as I ordered.
wallace		STOP! NOT YET! LISTEN TO ME!  They wish to frighten us! Or goad us into attacking too soon! Don't look away! LOOK!
wallace		Behold the enemy we fight! We will be more merciful than they have been. We will spare women, children, and priests. For all else, no mercy.
phillip		It is not your fault! Stand up to him.
edward		I will stand up to him, and more.
longshanks		What news of the north?
edward		Nothing new, Majesty. We have sent riders to speed any word.
longshanks		While I am in France fighting to expand your future kingdom I learn that Stirling castle is lost, our entire northern army wiped out! And you have done nothing?!
edward		I have ordered conscriptions...
edward		Wallace has sacked York!
longshanks		Impossible.  How dare you bring a panicky lie.
phillip		Sire! Thy own nephew! What beast could do such a thing?!
longshanks		If he can sack York, he can invade lower England.
phillip		We would stop him!
longshanks		Edward, who is this shitpoker who speaks to me as if I needed his advice?
edward		I have declared Phillip my High Counselor.
longshanks		You fight back at last!
longshanks		We must sue for a truce, and buy him off. But who will go to him? Not I. If I came under the sword of this murderer, I would end up like my nephew. And not you, the sight of my faggot son would only encourage an enemy to take over this country. So whom do I send?
campbell		A royal entourage comes, flying banners of truce, and the standards of Longshanks himself!
wallace		Longshanks! I have come.
princess		I am the Princess of Wales.
wallace		Wife of Edward, the king's son?
princess		I come as the king's servant, and with his authority.
wallace		It's battle I want, not talk.
princess		But now that I am here, will you speak with a woman?
princess		I understand that you have recently been given the rank of knight.
wallace		I have been given nothing. God makes men what they are.
princess		Did God make you the sacker of peaceful cities? The executioner of the king's nephew, my husband's own cousin?
wallace		York was the staging point for every invasion of my country. And that royal cousin hanged a hundred Scots, even women and children, from the city walls.
princess		That is not possible.
wallace		Longshanks did far worse, the last time he took a Scottish city.
crony		 He is a murdering bandit, he lies.
wallace		 I am no bandit. And I do not lie.
wallace		Or in French if you prefer that: Certainmous et ver! Ask your king to his face, and see if his eyes can convince you of the truth.
princess		Hamilton, leave us.
princess		Leave us now.
stephen		Her husband's more of a queen than she is. Did you know that?
princess		Let us talk plainly. You invade England. But you cannot complete the conquest, so far from your shelter and supply. The King proposes that you withdraw your attack. In return he grants you title, estates, and this chest with a thousand pounds of gold, which I am to pay to you personally.
wallace		A Lordship. And gold. That I should become Judas.
princess		Peace is made is such ways.
wallace		SLAVES ARE MADE IN SUCH WAYS!
princess		I understand you have suffered. I know... about your woman.
wallace		She was my wife. We married in secret because I would not share her with an English lord. They killed her to get to me. And she was pregnant.
wallace		I've never told anyone. I don't know why I tell you -- except because you look... much like her. And someday you will be a queen, and you must open your eyes!  Tell your king that William Wallace will not be ruled. Nor will any Scot, while I live.
princess		Sir. I leave this money, as a gift. Not from the king, but from myself. And not to you, but to the orphans of your country.
longshanks		My son's loyal wife returns, unkilled by the heathen. So he accepted our bribe.
princess		No. He did not.
longshanks		Then why does he stay? My scouts say he has not advanced.
princess		He waits. For you. He says he will attack no more towns -- if you are man enough to come fight him.
longshanks		You spoke with this Wallace in private. What kind of man is he?
princess		...A mindless barbarian. Not a king like you, M'lord.
longshanks		The Scottish nobles have sent him no support. His army starves. Our stall has worked, he must withdraw. You may return to your embroidery.
princess		Humbly, M'lord.
edward		You brought back the money, of course?
princess		No. I have it to ease the suffering of the children of this war.
longshanks		 This is what happens when you must send a woman. And a fool.
princess		Forgive me, Sire. I thought that generosity might demonstrate your greatness to those you mean to rule.
longshanks		My greatness is better demonstrated with this.
edward		The weapon has been outlawed by the Pope himself!
longshanks		So the Scots will have none of them, will they? My armorers have already made a thousand.
hamish		William -- French guards?
craig		That is why the Pope outlawed the weapon! It makes war too terrible.
mornay		How many does Longshanks have?
wallace		A thousand.  You have made me Guardian of Scotland. So I tell you this is what we face.
craig		We must sue for peace.
wallace		Peace?!
craig		We cannot defeat this --
wallace		With cavalry -- not heavy, like the English, but light, fast horsemen, like you nobles employ -- we could outmaneuver their bowmen!
craig		It is suicide.
robert		Sir William --
wallace		We won at Stirling and still you quibbled! We won at York and you would not support us! Then I said nothing! Now I say you are cowards!
robert		Please, Sir William! Speak with me alone! I beg you!
robert		You have achieved more than anyone dreamed. But fighting these odds looks like rage, not courage. Peace offers its rewards! Has war become a habit you cannot break?
wallace		War finds me willing. I know it won't bring back all I have lost. But it can bring what none of us have ever had -- a country of our own. For that we need a king. We need you.
robert		I am trying.
wallace		Then tell me what a king is! Is he a man who believes only what others believe? Is he one who calculates the numbers for and against him but never weighs the strength in your own heart? There is strength in you. I see it. I know it.
robert		I must... consult with my father.
wallace		And I will consult with mine.
wallace		Remember when the English turned their hounds on us? Maybe we should introduce them to our dogs.
robert		This... cannot be the way.
the leper		You have said yourself that the nobles will not support Wallace, so how does it help us to join the side that is slaughtered?
the leper		My son. Look at me. I cannot be king. You, and you alone, can rule Scotland. What I tell you, you must do -- for yourself, and for your country.
hamish		The Bruce is not coming, William.
wallace		Mornay has come. So will the Bruce.
wallace		Stephen ready?
hamish		Aye.
wallace		Irish troops!
stephen		So that's where Longshanks got his soldiers. Irishmen, willing to kill Scottish cousins for the English.
william		Their families are starving, they'll feed them however they can. If you don't want to fight them --
stephen		No. I'll stand with you.
stephen		They can't be that stupid to attack the schiltrons again.
wallace		It's only a faint to shield the crossbows!
wallace		Now! Give 'em the dogs!
wallace		Now! Charge! Charge them!
general		Mornay?
longshanks		For double his lands in Scotland, and matching estates in England.
stephen		Betrayed!
general		My God, and still they come!
longshanks		Use the reinforcements! But take Wallace alive!
wallace		Hamish! Ham --
wallace		Get him away!
wallace		A charge! Form up! Form up!
robert		Fight me! Fight me!
robert		FIGHT ME!
campbell		Son... I want to die on the ground.
campbell		Whew. That'll clear your sinuses. Goodbye, boys.
hamish		No. You're going to live.
campbell		I don't think I can do without one of those... whatever it is...
wallace		You... were like my father...
campbell		...And glad to die, like him... So you could be the men you are. All of ya.
campbell		I'm a happy man.
advisor		Their nobles have sworn allegiance, M'lord. Every last one.
longshanks		Now we kill two birds at one stroke. We recruit from Scotland for our armies in France.
edward		The Scots will fight for us?
longshanks		What choice do they have? Now they must serve us or starve.
edward		But if we have not caught Wallace --
longshanks		 He is gone! Finished! Dead! If he has not yet bled to death or had his throat cut for him, he will not survive the winter. It is very cold -- is it not, our flower?
leper		I am the one who is rotting. But I think your face looks graver than mine.
robert		He was so brave. With courage alone he nearly won.
leper		So more men were slaughtered uselessly!
robert		He broke because of me. I saw it. He lost all will to fight.
leper		We must have alliance with England to prevail here. You achieved that! You saved your family, increased your lands! In time you will have all the power in Scotland!... Yet you grieve.
robert		In my heart I had begun to hope that he would never break.
leper		All men lose heart. All betray. It is exactly why we must make the choices we make.
people		Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!
robert		Is it true about Mornay?
robert		And he rode through the window? My God.
longshanks		His legend grows! It will be worse than before!
edward		You let Wallace escape your whole army. You cannot blame me for this.
princess		Good day to you, M'Lords.
edward		You mock us with a smile?
princess		I am cheerful with a plan to soothe your miseries. All of England shudders with the news of renewed rebellion.
edward		Wallace's followers.
princess		Wallace himself. If you wish to pretend a ghost rallies new volunteers in every Scottish town, I leave you to your hauntings. If you wish to take him, I know a way.
princess		I have faced him. Have you?
longshanks		Let her speak.
princess		He will fight you forever. But what does he fight for? Freedom first, and peace. So grant them.
edward		The little cow is insane --
princess		Grant, as you do everything else, with treachery. Offer him a truce to discuss terms, and send me to my castle at Locharmbie as your emissary. He trusts me. Pick thirty of your finest assassins for me to take along. And I will set the meeting, and the ambush.
longshanks		You see, my delicate son? I have picked you a Queen.
chief assassin		We came in small groups, so the rebels would not suspect.
princess		And you have reached Wallace's men?
chief assassin		We tell the villagers, and the traitors pass it on. All that's left is for you to say where.
wallace		Thanks for the food and drink. And for bringing 'em yourselves.
hamish		We're here to stay. We don't care to live, if we can't fight beside ya.
hamish		There is... one thing, William. Longshanks is offering a truce. He has dispatched his daughter-in-law as his emissary, and she has sent word that she wishes to meet you -- in a barn.
chief assassin		It's William Wallace, sure! And... he's given up his sword! Be ready!
wallace		A meeting in a barn. It had to be a trap. And only you would know I would be aware of it.
princess		It does me good to see you.
william		I am much diminished since we met.
princess		There will be a new shipment of supplies coming north next month. Food and weapons. They will trav --
william		No. Stop. I didn't come here for that.
princess		Then why did you come?
wallace		Why did you?
princess		Because of the way you're looking at me now. The same way... as when we met.
princess		I know. You looked at me... and saw her.
princess		You must forgive me what I feel. No man has ever looked at me as you did.
wallace		You have... you have a husband.
princess		I have taken vows. More than one. I've vowed faithfulness to my husband, and sworn to give him a son. And I cannot keep both promises.
princess		You understand. Consider, before you laugh and say no. You will never own a throne, though you deserve one. But just as the sun will rise tomorrow, some man will rule England. And what if his veins ran not with the blood of Longshanks, but with that of a true king?
wallace		I cannot love you for the sake of revenge.
princess		No. But can you love me for the sake of all you loved and lost? Or simply love me... because I love you?
princess		No one! Hurry!
princess		When we... did you think of her?
hamish		Rest, William.
wallace		I rest.
hamish		Your rest is making me exhausted.
stephen		Come, it'll help you sleep.
wallace		Aye. But it won't let me dream.
craig		May he rest in peace... You have already sealed the coffin?
robert		He was a modest man.
craig		It will not be long before Longshanks too is encased in stone, and his crowns divided for others to wear.
craig		Our nobles are frightened and confused... Wallace has the commoners stirred up again, from the Highland clans to the lowland villages. In another six months Christ and the Apostles could not govern this country.
craig		Longshanks knows his son will scarcely be able to rule England, much less half of France. He needs Scotland settled, and he trusts you, after Falkirk. If you pay him homage, he will recognize you as king of Scotland. Our nobles have agreed to this as well.
robert		If I pay homage to another's throne, then how am I a king?
craig		Homage is nothing. It is the crown that matters!
robert		The crown is that of Scotland. And Scotland is William Wallace.
craig		That is another matter. There is a price to all this, required both by Longshanks and our nobles. Pay it, and you will be our king. And we will have peace.
craig		Sir William. We come to seek a meeting.
wallace		You've all sworn to Longshanks.
craig		An oath to a liar is no oath at all. An oath to a patriot is a vow indeed. Every man of us is ready to swear loyalty to you.
wallace		So let the council swear publicly.
craig		We cannot. Some scarcely believe you are alive. Other think you'll pay them Mornay's wages. We bid you to Edinburgh. Meet us at the city gates, two days from now, at sunset. Pledge us your pardon and we will unite behind you. Scotland will be one.
wallace		I will meet you, but only one way -- if Robert the Bruce is there, and puts his hand on my Bible, and swears his loyalty to Scotland.
craig		He has already agreed to come.
hamish		You know it's a trap.
wallace		Probably. But we can't win alone. We know that. This is the only way.
hamish		I don't want to be a martyr.
wallace		Nor I! I want to live! I want a home and children and peace. I've asked god for those things. But He's brought me this sword. And if He wills that I must lay it down to have what He wants for my country, then I'll do that too.
hamish		That's just a dream, William!
wallace		We've lived a dream together. A dream of freedom!
hamish		Your dreams aren't about freedom! They're about Marion! You have to be a hero, because you think she sees you! Is that it?
wallace		My dreams of Marion are gone. I killed them myself. If I knew I could live with her on the other side of death, I'd welcome it.
hamish		Keep these. We're going too.
wallace		No. One of us is enough.
craig		He won't come.
robert		He will. I know he will.
robert		Here. And unarmed. My God, he has a brave heart.
robert		He is not to be harmed. I have your king's absolute promise that he will be imprisoned only!
craig		Now we will have peace.
people		Don't look so fearsome, does he?!
princess		Is it true? Wallace is captured?
edward		Simply because he eluded your trap, do you think he is more than a man? My father is dying. Perhaps you should think of our coronation.
princess		When will his trial be?
edward		Wallace's? For treason there is no trial. Tomorrow he will be charged, then executed.
robert		Longshanks promised!
craig		You are surprised he would lie? Balliol was murdered in a church yesterday. You are Longshanks' new designate. You will be king.
royal magistrate		William Wallace! You stand in taint of high treason.
wallace		Treason. Against whom?
magistrate		Against thy king, thou vile fool! Hast thou anything to say?
wallace		Never, in my whole life, did I swear allegiance to your king --
magistrate		It matters not, he is thy king!
wallace		-- while many who serve him have taken and broken his oath many times. I cannot commit treason, if I have never been his subject!
magistrate		Confess, and you may receive a quick death. Deny, and you must be purified by pain. Do you confess? ...DO YOU CONFESS?!
wallace		I do not confess.
magistrate		Then on the morrow, thou shalt receive they purification... And in the end, I promise you'll beg for the axe.
wallace		I am so afraid... Give me strength.
jailer		Your Highness!
princess		I will see the prisoner.
jailer		We've orders from the king --
princess		The king will be dead in a month! And his son is a weakling! Who do you think will rule this kingdom? Now OPEN THIS DOOR!
jailer		On your feet, you filth!
princess		Stop! Leave me!  There is no way out of this hell! Leave me with him!
wallace		M'lady... what kindness of you to visit a stranger.
princess		Sir, I... come to beg you to confess all, and swear allegiance to the king, that he might show you mercy.
wallace		Will he show mercy to my country? Will he take back his soldiers, and let us rule ourselves?
princess		Mercy... is to die quickly. Perhaps even live in the Tower. In time, who knows what can happen, if you can only live.
wallace		If I swear to him, then everything I am is dead already.
wallace		Your people are lucky to have a princess so kind that she can grieve at the death of a stranger.
princess		You will die! It will be awful!
wallace		Every man dies. Not every man really lives.
princess		Drink this! It will dull your pain.
wallace		It will numb my wits, and I must have them all. If I'm senseless, or if I wail, then Longshanks will have broken me.
princess		I can't bear the thought of your torture. Take it!
princess		I have come to beg for the life of William Wallace.
edward		You fancy him.
princess		I respect him. At worst he was a worthy enemy. Show mercy... Oh thou great king... and win the respect of your own people.
princess		Even now, you are incapable of mercy?
princess		Nor you. To you that word is as unfamiliar as love.
edward		Before he lost his powers of speech, he told me his one comfort was that he would live to know Wallace was dead.
princess		You see? Death comes to us all. And it comes to William Wallace. But before death comes to you, know this: your blood dies with you. A child who is not of your line grows in my belly. Your son will not sit long on the throne. I swear it.
magistrate		We will use it all before this is over. Or fall to your knees now, declare yourself the king's loyal subject, and beg his mercy, and you shall have it.
crowd		That's it! Stretch him!
magistrate		Pleasant, yes? Rise to your knees, kiss the royal emblem on my cloak, and you will feel no more.
magistrate		Very well then. Rack him.
magistrate		Wonderful, isn't it, that a man remains conscious through such pain. Enough?
wallace		That... will... clear your sinuses.
magistrate		It can all end. Right now! Bliss. Peace. Just say it. Cry out. "Mercy!" Yes?... Yes?
crowd		Mer-cy! Mer-cy! Mer-cy!
magistrate		 The prisoner wishes to say a word!
wallace		FREEEEE-DOMMMMMM!
english commander		I hope you washed your ass this mornin -- it's never been kissed by a king before.
craig		Come, let's get it over with.
robert		Stop.
scots		Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!
wallace's voice		In the year of our Lord 1314, patriots of Scotland, starving and outnumbered, charged the fields of Bannockburn. They fought like warrior poets. They fought like Scotsmen. And won their freedom. Forever.
scots		Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!
****Dialogues from script :Brazil.txt****

interviewer		Deputy minister, what do you believe is behind this recent increase in terrorist bombings?
helpmann		Bad sportsmanship. A ruthless minority of people seems to have forgotten certain good old fashioned virtues. They just can't stand seeing the other fellow win. If these people would just play the game, instead of standing on the touch line heckling -
interviewer		In fact, killing people -
helpmann		- In fact, killing people - they'd get a lot more out of life.
interviewer		Mr. HELPMANN, what would you say to those critics who maintain that the Ministry Of Information has become too large and unwieldy ...?
helpmann		David ... in a free society information is the name of the game. You can't win the game if you're a man short.
interviewer		And the cost of it all, Deputy Minister? Seven percent of the gross national produce ...
helpmann		I understand this concern on behalf of the tax-payers. People want value for money and a cost-effective service.
helpmann		That is why we always insist on the principle of Information Retrieval Charges. These terrorists are not pulling their weight, and it's absolutely right and fair that those found guilty should pay for their periods of detention and the Information Retrieval Procedures used in their interrogation.
interviewer		Do you think that the government is winning the battle against terrorists?
helpmann		On yes. Our morale is much higher than theirs, we're fielding all their strokes, running a lot of them out, and pretty consistently knocking them for six. I'd say they're nearly out of the game.
interviewer		But the bombing campaign is now in its thirteenth year ...
helpmann		Beginner's luck.
interviewer		Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
helpmann		Thank you, David ... and a very merry Christmas to you all.
jill		 Who's there?
mrs buttle		There, that's enough for tonight. He won't come Xmas Eve if you don't get plenty of sleep.
girl buttle		Father Christmas can't come if we haven't got a chimney.
mrs buttle		You'll see.
girl buttle		How will he get down from upstairs?
boy buttle		It's a secret.
girl buttle		 You've come ...
official		I hereby inform you under powers entrusted to me under Section 47, Paragraph 7 of Council Order Number 438476, that Mr Buttle, Archibald, residing at 412 North Tower, Shangri La Towers, has been invited to assist the Ministry of Information with certain enquiries, the nature of which may be ascertained on completion of application form BZ/ST/486/C fourteen days within this date, and that he is liable to certain obligations as specified in Council Order 173497, including financial restitutions which may or may not be incurred if Information Retrieval procedures beyond those incorporated in Article 7 subsections 8, 10 & 32 are required to elicit information leading to permanent arrest - notification of which will he served with the time period of 5 working days as stipulated by law. In that instance the detainee will be debited without further notice through central banking procedures without prejudice until and unless at such a time when re-imbursement procedures may be instituted by you or third parties on completion of a re-imbursement form RB/CZ/907/X ...
official		 Sign here please.
mrs buttle		 What? where have you taken him?
official		 Press harder his time. Good.
mrs buttle		 What is this all about?
jill		Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
charlie		 Eh! Eh! Eh! We're Department of Works! Department of Works up here! Careful with those bloody things!
bill		 Don't take any notice, love, it's their training makes them like animals. Best in the world, though.
jill		Who are you?
charlie		Don't you worry love, we'll have everything shipshape in a jiffy.
bill		That's it. Nothing to worry about.
charlie		It's Buttle downstairs who can worry, eh?
jill		There must be some mistake ... Mr Buttle's harmless...
bill		We don't make mistakes.
mr kurtzman		Does anyone know where Lowry is?
mr kurtzman		 Where the hell is Sam Lowry?!
sam		Hello ... What ... what? Oh ... Mr Kurtzman! ... You're up late. Oh, is it?
sam		 The electronics here are up the spout. Yours too, sir? Don't worry sir - I'll be there.
jack		Sam!
sam		Jack!
jack		Long time no see!
sam		Well, since you disappeared up the ladder of Information Retrieval ... I don't expect to see you slumming in Records - what's the problem?
jack		Problem? - No problem - yes, everything's going fantastically well, wonderful, marvelous, great career prospects, Alison in great shape, kids fine, beautiful home, I'm on Security Level Five now, and Mr Helpmann relies on me more and more, yes, couldn't be better, I feel terrifically motivated and job- rewarded -
sam		You sound worried.
jack		Me? - if I'm worried about anyone, it's you. What happened to you, Sam? You were the brightest of us -
jack		What's the matter?
sam		Sorry. Nothing.  See you - I'm going to be late.
jack		 You are late.
sam		Even later.
jack		Sam, your life is going wrong - let your friends tell you - Records is a dead end department, no Security Level worth a damn, it's impossible to get noticed -
sam		Yes, I know, fantastic, marvellous, wonderful - remember me to Alison - and the - er - twins.
jack		Triplets.
sam		Really? - God, how time flies!
jill		I want to report a wrongful arrest.
porter		 You want Information Adjustments. Different department.
jill		 I've been to Information Adjustments. They sent me here. They told me you had a form I had to fill in.
porter		Have you got an Arrest Receipt?
jill		Yes.
porter		Is it stamped?
jill		 Stamped?
porter		 No, there's no stamp on it. You see! I can't give you the form until it's stamped.
jill		Where do I get it stamped?
porter		Information Adjustments.
kurtzman		Perhaps the machine's on the blink! It keeps picking up old films. That can't he right, can it?
sam		It's not the machine. There's a mismatch on the personnel code numbers... Ah there we go! That's a B58/732 when it should be a T47/215 ... Tuttle ... he should have 31.06, debited against his account for electrical procedures, not Buttle.
kurtzman		Oh my God, a mistake!
sam		It's not our mistake!
kurtzman		 Isn't it? Whose is it?
sam		Information Retrieval.
kurtzman		Oh, good!
sam		Expediting has put in for electrical procedures in respect of Buttle, Archibald, shoe repair operative, but Security has invoiced Admin for Tuttle, Archibald, heating engineer
kurtzman		What a relief! I don't know what I'd do if you ever got promoted.
sam		Don't worry.
kurtzman		But if they did promote you
sam		I've told you before. I'd turn it down.
kurtzman		Would you really, Sam?
sam		Really.
kurtzman		 You've been promoted.
kurtzman		It's your mother isn't it? Pulling strings again.
sam		 What a BITCH!
doctor		Now, when you come in tomorrow, Mrs Lowry, we'll make a little tuck here ... and there ...
sam		 I just wish you would stop interfering, mother! I don't want promotion. I'm happy where I am.
mother		No you're not. Jack Lint is a lesson to you - he never had your brains but he's got the ambition. You haven't got the ambition but luckily you've got me. And Mr Helpmann. Mr Helpmann was very close -
doctor		Now, Mrs Lowry, don't get upset  Please wait in reception, Mr Lowry, you're giving her wrinkles.
mother		You see!
doctor		Now Mrs Lowry, try to relax. You must trust me. I'll make you twenty years younger ...
sam		Huh!
doctor		 ... twenty-five if we just drain the excess fluid from the pouches ...
mother		Dr Jaffe, you're a genius. Would you like to be Surgeon General? Four Star. I know everybody.
doctor		Well they won't know you when I've finished with you.
doctor		First we must eliminate the excess derma ... so! ... Then the flaccid tissues under the eyes ... And now the forehead ... Zip! I lift the wrinkles and worry lines right up into the wi- into the hairline, comme ca ...
doctor		And now the template ... There ... there ... there ... Now a bit of sticky ... There we go!  Already she is twice as beautiful as she was before - voila!
sam		My God, it works.
mother		 Mr Helpmann was very close to your poor father. He was very close to me. Still is. He'll take you under his wing at Information Retrieval. You'll like it when you get there.
sam		You're not listening, mother.
mother		It's a present for my son.
mother		I hope you like it. It's very exclusive.
sam		What is it?
mother		It's something for executives.
mother		Hello, Spiro. Merry Christmas.
spiro		 I'm sorry but ...
mother		You remember Samuel, my son.
spiro		{suddenly unctious) Oh, but of course ...
mother		We're meeting Mrs Terrain.
sam		Are we?
spiro		Ah yes, the lady is waiting.
sam		Mother, I thought we were going to be able to talk .... Oh God, she's got what's he name with her.
mrs terrain		Ida! Sam!
mother		Alma, how are you? You're looking wonderful! Hello, Shirley.
shirley		 Salt?
mrs terrain		 Happy Christmas, Sam.
mother		Sorry we're late. Shall we order? Get it out of the way. What are you going to have Alma?
mrs terrain		I can't make up my mind whether to have a number one or a number two. What do you recommend, Spiro?
spiro		 Between you and me, Madam, today the number two.
mrs terrain		Thank you, Spiro. Shirley, what are you going to have?
spiro		 Between you and me, Mademoiselle, today the number one. Madam Lowry?
mother		Oh, to hell with the diet, a number eight, please.
spiro		A most perceptive choice, Madam, if I may say so.  Monsieur?
sam		 Mother, I need to ...
spiro		 Monsieur. Quel numero.
sam		 I don't know which numero.
spiro		 Numero, trois.
mother		 you've started your treatment.
mrs terrain		You noticed.  I must tell you all about it.
sam		 Mother, will you listen to
mrs terrain		It's too exciting. I've left Dr Jaffe and gone to Dr. Chapman.
spiro		Numero deux, duck a l'orange. 
mother		The acid man?
mrs terrain		Really, Ida, just because his techniques are revolutionary ... I don't go around calling Dr Jaffe the knife man.
spiro		Numero une, crevettes  la mayonaaise. 
mother		I'm sorry Alma, I didn't mean to sound so ...
mrs terrain		That's all right Ida ... it's just that he's such an artist. To him, cutting is so crude ... so primitive.
spiro		Numero trois, steak.  Monsieur, Mesdames, Bon appetit.
mrs terrain		Acid on the other hand, can be used for such wonderfully subtle shading, such delicate nuances - just like a Rembrant etching ... and it's so much quicker. Why, if it weren't for a teensy-weensy complication - the doctor said it could have happened to anyone - I would have had these bandages off yesterday.
shirley		 Salt?
mother		What were we saying?
sam		 This isn't rare!
mother		By the way, I saw a wonderful idea for Christmas presents at the chemists. Gift tokens. Medical gift tokens.
mrs terrain		Oh, that sounds marvellous.
mother		Yes, they're good at any doctor's and at many of the major hospitals - and they're accepted for gynecological complications including Caesarian section.
sam		Look - please - I'm sorry - but honestly, mother, this is -
mrs terrain		Really, Sam - when are you going to do something about these terrorists?
sam		What? Now? It's my lunch hour.
mother		Actually, Alma, that's one of the little things I was dying to tell you ... Sam's been promoted to Information Retrieval.
sam		 Mother!
mrs terrain		Oh that's wonderful! Congratulations Sam...
shirley		You can show those fucking murderous bastards a thing or two.
mrs terrain		 Shirley!
sam		Stop this!  If I want you to stick your oar in, mother, I'll tell you where to stick it!
shirley		 Pepper...?
sam		Look - I've got to get back -
mother		Sam ... you haven't had dessert.
sam		I'm sorry. I don' t want dessert. I don't want promotion. I don't want anything.
mother		Don't be childish, Samuel. Of course you want something. You must have hopes, wishes, dreams.
sam		 NO, NOTHING. NOT EVEN DREAMS!
sam		I'm taking you to a safe place. A place where they will never be able to get at us ... ever.
sam		There's no way they can approach us without being seen. You're safe here.
sam		 Hello - Central Services - I'm at 579B Block l9, Northwestern Section D - that's exit 1 on Green Pastures Highway at the Orange Blossom Flyover - and I've got trouble with the air- conditioning
phone voice		Thank you or calling Central Services. am sorry, due to temporary staff shortage, Central Services cannot take service calls centrally between 2300 and 0900 hours - have a nice day - this has not been a recording, incident-
sam		This is an emergency!
phone voice		Thank you for calling Central Services. I am sorry, due -
sam		Yes, but. I've got to have a heating engineer
phone voice		Thank you for calling Cen -
gent		Ah ha ... there you are, Sam.
sam		What? How do you know my name?
gent		We know everything here. This is the Storeroom of Knowledge.
sam		 Then perhaps you can help me. I've lost someone who ...
gent		 We know that too. You've come to the right place.
gent		Oh, yes. We've got everything here. Every bit of knowledge, wisdom, learning ... every experience, every thought neatly filed away.
sam		 What? You mean you've got ...
gent		Well not exactly. But, if you help us we'll help you. The Forces Of Darkness have won the day ... but, tomorrow is another one
sam		What do I have to do.
gent		You must save the day.
gent		This is the Sword Of Truth ... and this the Helmet Of Justice.
gent		And this. completes the outfit.
gent		It won't be pleasant but, trust me.
sam		Hello ... hello ...
phone voice		Hello. Mr Lowry?
sam		Who's that? 
phone voice		Put the phone down and your hands up.
sam		 What? Who is this?
tuttle		Nice and easy now. Keep your hands where I can see them.
sam		What is this?  Who the hell are you?
tuttle		Harry Tuttle. Heating engineer. At your service.
sam		Tuttle! Are you from Central Services?
tuttle		Ha!!
sam		But ... I called Central Services.
tuttle		They're a bit overworked these days. Luckily I intercepted your call.
sam		What?
sam		Wait a minute, what was that business with the gun?
tuttle		A little precaution, sir. I've had traps set for me before now. There are people in Central Services who'd love to get their hands on Harry Tuttle.
sam		Are you saying this is illegal?
tuttle		Well, yes ... and no. Officially, only Central Service operatives are supposed to touch this stuff ... Could you hold these.
tuttle		 ... Mind you, if ever they could prove I'd been working on their equipment ... well, that's a different matter ... up a bit with the torch, sir.
sam		Sorry. wouldn't it be easier just to work for Central Services?
tuttle		Couldn't stand the pa - ah - we're getting warm -
sam		The pace?
tuttle		The paperwork, couldn't stand the paperwork.  Over to the left please, if you don't mind sir. Hold it there. Yes, there's more bits of paper in Central Services than bits of pipe - read this, fill in that, hand in the other - listen, this old system of yours could be on fire and I couldn't even turn on the kitchen tap without filling in a 27B/6.... Bloody paperwork.
sam		 Well I suppose one has to expect a certain amount
tuttle		Why? I came into this game for adventure - go anywhere, travel light, get in, get out, wherever there's trouble, a man alone. Now they've got the whole country sectioned of and you can't move without a form. I'm the last of a breed. Ah ha! Found it!  There's your problem.
sam		Can you fix it?
tuttle		No. But I can bypass it with one of these
sam		Fine.
tuttle		Are you expecting anyone?
sam		No. Wait here.
sam		Yes?
spoor		Central Services.
dowser		...ervices.
sam		Uh - what? - I ...
spoor		You telephone, sir.
dowser		...elephoned sir.
spoor		Trouble with your air-conditioning.
dowser		...ditioning.
sam		 No, not at all. I mean, it's all right. It's fixed.
spoor		Fixed?
dowser		Fixed?
sam		I mean it fixed itself.
spoor		Fixed itself.
dowser		...ixed itself.
spoor		Machines don't fix themselves.
dowser		... fix themselves.
spoor		He's tampered with it, Dowser.
dowser		...ampered. with it, Spoor.
sam		Look, I'm sorry about your wasted journey
spoor		 I think we'd better have a look.
dowser		... have a look.
sam		No you can't.
sam		Just a minute!
sam		Have you got a 27B/6?
spoor		 Now look what you've done to him.
sam		Have you got one or haven't you?
spoor		Not ... as such ...
spoor		But we can get one.
spoor		 It's all right, Terry, it's all right, everything's all right.
sam		 I'm sorry, but I'm a bit of a stickler for paper work. Where would we be if we didn't follow the correct procedures?
spoor		We'll be back.
dowser		...Be back.
sam		 Thank you.
tuttle		Thanks, Lowry, you're a good man in a tight corner.  TUTTLE returns to work, fitting in the new by-pass gadget and tightening the nuts, and happily humming "BRAZIL".
sam		Listen .. um ... I don't want to get involved in any of this. But I work at the Ministry of Information, and I happen to know that Information Retrieval have been looking for an Archibald Tuttle, Heating Engineer. You wouldn't by any chance be -
tuttle		 My friends call me Harry. Information Retrieval, eh? Interesting!
sam		What do they want you or?
tuttle		Time to go.
sam		Thank you very much. How much will it...?
tuttle		On the house. You did me a favor. Check the corridor.
sam		All clear.
sam		Hey that's a dead end.
neighbour		I think Kurtzman getting is suspicious.
sam		What have we got on today?
neighbour		Casablanca.
kurtzman		 Mr Lowry! Would you step in here a moment please.
kurtzman		 Thank God you're here! We're in terrible trouble! Look at this! Look at this!
sam		 A cheque.
kurtzman		The refund for Tuttle!
sam		 Tuttle?
kurtzman		I mean, Buttle! It's been confusion from the word go! He's been wrongly charged for Electromemorytherapy and someone somewhere is trying to make us carry the can!
sam		I've never seen a Ministry cheque before.
kurtzman		We've got to get rid of it! There's been a balls-up somewhere, and when the music stops they'll jump on whoever's holding the cheque!
sam		Send it to somebody else. Send it to Buttle. It's his cheque.
kurtzman		I've tried that! Population Census have got him down as dormanted, the Central Collective Storehouse computer has got him down as deleted, and the Information Retrieval have got him down as inoperative ... Security has him down as excised., Admin have him down as completed
sam		Hang on.
sam		He is dead.
kurtzman		Dead! Oh no! That's terrible! We'll never get rid of the damned thing! What are we going to do?
sam		Try next of kin.
kurtzman		 Next of kin!
sam		There we go. Mrs. Veronica Buttle. What's the number on the cheque?
kurtzman		 27156789/074328/K.
sam		Into memory. Now ... Central Banking ... Buttle, Veronica ... Deposit
kurtzman		 Please don't come back! Please don't come back!
sam		Problem. She doesn't have a bank account.
kurtzman		 Perhaps we can lose it ... behind the filing cabinet ... or destroy it ... burn it ... eat it ...
sam		You'd never get away with it. Besides, you can't do that to somebody's refund. It's Christmas. There is one more option.
kurtzman		 What?
sam		Drive out to Mrs Buttle, give her the cheque, tell her to sign her name on the back, cash it at the corner sweet shop.
kurtzman		That's brilliant!
sam		I'll do it for you. Authorise the cheque. What's the address?
kurtzman		Here. What do I do next?
sam		Call the motor pool and authorise personal transport.
kurtzman		Of course, of course. Leave it to me. How do I authorize a cheque?
sam		 Here we are. Pink and blue receipts. All you've got to do is sign these and the back of the cheque.
kurtzman		 Oh God! I think I've broken a bone. What a pathetic thing I am.
sam		 Here.
sam		That's it.
kurtzman		You are good to me Sam.
sam		 Don't mention it. See you later.
sam		 Excuse me. Can you tell me ...
kid		Eff off.
sam		Mrs Buttle 
sam		Mrs Buttle ...
sam		Are you Mrs Buttle?
sam		My name is Lowry - Sam Lowry. I'm from the Ministry of Information.  I've come to give you a cheque.
sam		 It's a refund ... I'm afraid there was a mistake.
mrs buttle		Mistake?
sam		 Yes. Not my department ... I'm only records. It seems that Mr Buttle was overcharged by Information Retrieval. I don't think they usually make mistakes ... but, er ... I suppose we're all human.
mrs buttle		My husband's dead, isn't he?
sam		Er ... I assure you Mrs Buttle, the Ministry is always very scrupulous about following up and eradicating error. If you have any complaints which you'd like to make, I'd be more than happy to send you the appropriate forms.
mrs buttle		What have you done with his body?
sam		Um ...
sam		Look, I'm very sorry, but I'm afraid I don't know anything about it ... I'm really just delivering the cheque. Er ... If you wouldn't mind signing these receipts  I'll go and leave you in peace.
sam		Uh ...
mrs buttle		He hadn't done anything ... He was good ... What have you done with his body?
jill		Are you alright?
sam		 It's you ... it's you ...
jill		Mrs Buttle, are you alright?
sam		Wait! Stop! Come back!!
sam		Girl ... fair hair ...
sam		 Wait! It was nothing to do with me!
sam		Go away.
girl buttle		Her name is Jill.
sam		What? ...Jill? Jill who? Jill who?
girl buttle		Layton.
sam		Jill Layton ...  You're a very good little girl. What are you doing here?
girl buttle		I'm waiting for my daddy.
sam		 He will be pleased when he comes home.
kurtzman		Oh ... Sam. I've had the transport pool onto me ... You don't know anything about a personnel transporter gone missing do you?
sam		 A "personnel" transporter? They've got it wrong. I had a personal transporter. I'll do the paperwork tomorrow -
kurtzman		Is it all right about Mrs Buttle's cheque?
sam		I delivered it.
kurtzman		Can I forget it?
sam		Yes.
kurtzman		What a relief!  I shall probably have nightmares.
sam		Damn! Blast!
kurtzman		What's the matter?
sam		You don't happen to know how I can get around an IRQ/3 do you?
kurtzman		All information on 3rd Level Suspects is classified.
sam		I know that.
kurtzman		All enquiries to Information Retrieval. Which is hopeless, of course. They never tell you anything. But come the time they want something from us ...
sam		 I've go to accept that promotion to get behind this, haven't I?
kurtzman		Yes. 
sam		I never signed the form.
kurtzman		I did it for you.
sam		What! Shit!
kurtzman		It's what you wanted isn't it?
sam		Yes ... No ... I don't, know.
kurtzman		Come on, before they turn the lights out.
sam		What the - ? How did you - ?
spoor		Emergency procedures.
sam		 I haven't got an emergency. Get out of here.
spoor		Sign here please.
sam		What is it?
spoor		 It's a 27B/6, what did you think it was?
spoor		 Haven't you got a ballpoint?
spoor		Now where's he got to?  Dowser!
spoor		What have you got there?
dowser		 Got there!
spoor		Mumble ... mumble ... mumble ... Tuttle
dowser		Mumble ... Tuttle ...
spoor		Tuttle! ... mumble!  You've had that scab Tuttle here, haven't you?
dowser		...aven't you?
sam		What?
spoor		Who fixed your ducts?
dowser		...your ducts?
sam		I fixed it myself.
spoor		Oh yeh? Where'd you get this from eh  out yer nostril?
dowser		...Yer nostril?
spoor		Central Services don't take kindly to sabotage!
dowser		...sabotage!
sam		Hang on! Wait a minute! You can't just go and leave it like this!
spoor		 Why not? All you've got to do is blow yer nose and fix it, haven't you?
dowser		...ven't you?
spoor		 You're putting your talents to very odd use Mr Lowry - yes, odd use - to pit wits against Central Services -
dowser		...sod you, stupid twit.
sam		Er ... Thanks ...
girl		It's reply paid.
sam		Oh ...  Thank you very much, mother, but actually -
girl		You don't have to sing it.
sam		Oh, right ...
sam		 Aren't you a bit late? - the party started half an hour ago.
girl		Yes, I know. It's the backlog, everybody complains. Was it all right otherwise?
sam		Yes, it was ... very nice ... thank you.
girl		Do you mind if I use your bathroom?
woman		Sam, I'm so glad you came. Do come in.
sam		 Mother? Is that you?
mother		 Of course. Isn't it wonderful? The bandages came of this afternoon. Come and join the fun. Everybody's here.
sam		Is Mr Helpmann here?
mother		Yes he is - he wants to talk to you.
sam		I want to talk to him.
mother		It seems you're the first person ever to turn down a promotion. He thinks you should see a doctor.
sam		Actually, I've decided ...
mother		Oh, Louis! You know Sam.
dr jaffe		 Can you believe it?! Just me and my little knife! Snip - snip - slice - slice - Can you believe it?
sam		 Congratulations ...
dr jaffe		And this is just the beginning!!
sam		Really?
dr jaffe		Chirst yes, you've seen her with her clothes off. Faces are a doddle compared to tits and arse.  No hairline.
mother		 Really, Louis.
beefcake		I've been looking everywhere for you, Ida.
dr jaffe		Ah, dear boy ... And what do you think of your mother now?
dr jaffe		 Excuse me, Dr Chapman, did you say something?
dr chapman		That technique ... I've tried it. A nice effect. But highly unstable. In six months she'll look like Grandma Moses.
dr jaffe		 Now see here, Chapman. At least mine don't look like they've been mugged.
mrs terrain		 Sam!
sam		 Whatever happened to you?
mrs terrain		There was a slight complication. Dr. Chapman says it often happens with a delicate skin like mine. Nothing to worry about. He's promised me I'll have these bandages off in a ...
sam		 Actually, there's someone I want to meet ...
mrs terrain		 I know, I know ...!
mrs terrain		Here we are! I'm going to leave you two lovebirds in peace.
sam		I ... uh ...
sam		Can I get you a drink, Shirley?
sam		Look ... Shirley ... your mother ... and my mother ... they seem to have got the idea ... I mean, I'm terribly flattered, of course, but, um, the thing is, I don't want you to be under any false ...
shirley		{struggling into speech shyly) It's ... it's ... all right ... I don't like you either ...
sam		Hello, Jack!
jack		You remember Alison?
sam		Hello, Alison. You look different.
alison		Well, I'm two years older.
jack		And she's been to Dr. Jaffe!
jack		{winking at Sam) She doesn't like me telling anyone but she's pleased as anything really.
sam		Er, I knew you looked different.
jack		Remember how they used to stick out?
sam		What? - Oh, yes - vividly. I used to wonder if they were real.
alison		What, my ears?
sam		Your ears?
jack		Dr. Jaffe has pinned her ears back.
sam		 Quite, absolutely - I always thought they were false.
jack		 Mr Helpmann!
helpmann		Hello, Jack.
jack		You remember my wife ... Alis -
helpmann		Of course. Barbara isn't it? How are you? ALISON Um ...
jack		 Barbara's very well, thank you, sir. How are you?
helpmann		Fine, thank you. Hello, Sam. Ida said you might be here. Have you got a minute?  Would you excuse us?
jack		Of course .... of course ... Come on Alison - Barbara
helpmann		Thanks very much Sam.
sam		That's all right Mr Helpmann. Glad to help.
helpmann		If I can help you ...
sam		 Well, I ...
sam		Sorry ...
helpmann		Your father and I were very close. Of course Jeremiah was senior to me but we were close friends ... especially after the bombing  keep his name alive at the office every day.
helpmann		It's as though he's there speaking to me - "'ere I am, J.H.!" The ghost in the machine.
helpmann		I know he would have wanted me to help you ... And I promised your mother I'd take you onto the team at information Retrieval. But I gather that ...
sam		Mr Helpmann. I've changed my mind. I'd like to accept the transfer - am I too late?
helpmann		Too late? That's for me to say.
sam		Well ... well, I ...
helpmann		Welcome to Information Retrieval!
sam		 My name is Sam Lowry. I have to report to Mr Warren.
porter		 Thirtieth floor, sir. You're expected.
sam		Er, don't you want to search me?
porter		No, sir.
sam		 My I.D. cards.
porter		No need, sir
sam		 But I could be anybody.
porter		No you couldn't, sir. This is Information Retrieval.  the lift's arrived, sir.
expediter 1		 Mr Warren, this order ...
expediter 2		 Mr Warren ...
expediter 3		 About this invoice ... Victim's list ...
warren		 Yes ... No ... send that back ... wrong department ... of course ... of course not ... yes ... no ... maybe.
expediter 4		... about these requisitions ...
expediter 5		Mr Warren ... EX/27 has 15 suspects still outstanding.
expediter 6		... a decision, Mr Warren ...
warren		... cancel that ... okay ... put half as terrorists, the rest as victims ... yes ... yes ... no ... definitely no ...
sam		 I'm Lowry, Mr Warren ... Sam Lowry.
warren		 Uh, don't let Progress see this ... between you and me, Lowry, this ... no, no ... department ... tell Records to get stuffed ... is about to be upgraded and ...
warren		Ah, here we are!  What do you think?
warren		 ... your very own office. Congratulations, DZ/015, welcome to the team.
sam		Hello.
lime		No, you can't have any more chairs! There's only one left in here now, and I need that to sit on!  Oh ... er, sorry. Who are you?
sam		Sam Lowry.
lime		 My name's Lime. Harvey Lime. Welcome to Expediting.
sam		Ah.  Would you mind if I borrowed your computer console?
lime		What?
sam		I'll bring it back in ten minutes.
lime		You want to take my console into your office?
sam		Yes.
sam		 Alright. There's someone I want to check out. A woman called Gillian Layton.
lime		 A woman eh? I see.
sam		 I know her age and distinguishing marks. But I need an address or a place of work or something
lime		 This is your dream girl, is it?
sam		 Look, let me use the console for a few minutes.
lime		 When there's a woman involved - there's no stopping me. Now, let me have that sheet.
lime		Sod it, it's broken!
sam		You haven't switched it on.
lime		Oh - yes. Look you're putting me off, standing there! Go back to your office and I'll give you a knock when I've finished.
lime		Go on. I'm not going to elope with her.
lime		Computers are my forte.
sam		 Gillian Layton, age twenty three, eyes, blue, hair, black, weight, one hundred and twenty-one pounds, distinguishing marks, blemish on right shoulder, scar on left elbow
lime		It's a start isn't it. SAM  But I already knew this!
lime		Best to take it slowly where some women are concerned.
lime		Hey - that's my desk!
sam		 That's what I wanted to know. Thank you very much.
warren		Ah, Lowry, glad I caught you ...  No, send it back for ... Are you settling down? ... I want this order rescinded ... There's a query on a personnel transporter you took out from the pool ... Tell them no, tell them yes, ... or was it a personnel carrier you took out from transportation ... Send that up to Security ... Some kind of eight-wheel- half-track, was it? ... Tell him I want to see him ... Send round the paperwork, Lowry ... Arrange a conference on that one ... Anyway, tidy it up, Lowry, there's a good chap - get a new suit. Did you want the lift?
sam		What's that?
charlady		Beg your pardon?
typist		It won't be long now. 
on typewriter		AHHHH, Oh God ... No, don't ... UHH, please ... I ... STOP!! I can't stand ... AIIEEEE.
typist		 Can I help you?
earphone		Oooooooh ... aaaaaahhh ... please ... arrrrrghhhh no ... please ... Oh God, No ... No, stop, I don't know ...
sam		I'm looking for Officer 412/L.
typist		I'm sure he won't be long now.
typist		You can go in now.
sam		Excuse me. Are you officer 412/L?
sam		 Er, excuse me!
sam		 Excuse me.
sam		 Jack!!
jack		 SAM! What a surprise!
sam		 Are you officer 412/L?
jack		 Sorry about that ... Mr Helpmann told me you were coming aboard - congratulations!
sam		Thanks. Are you officer 412/L?
jack		For my sins. Are you settling in alright?
sam		Yes, thanks.
jack		Terrific. I'm really glad you dropped by. Unfortunately, I don't have any time right now I've got a queue of customers to deal with - er, why don't we have a drink tonight?
sam		 Ah ...
jack		What?
sam		I don't want to take up your time now, but I was hoping you could give me some information on somebody. It's a security level three matter and Information Retrieval records says to refer to you.
jack		OK. Come back this afternoon, about four o'clock. If you give me the number of the case, I'll have the dossier here waiting.  My tailor,... well worth the investment.
sam		 I've got numbers all over these - I'm not sure which is the one you want.
jack		 Layton! Oh shit!
sam		What is it?
jack		You clever bastard! I might have guessed. You only moved in today and you're already hot on the bloody trail.
sam		Am I?
jack		Please, Sam, we're going to have to be open to each other on this one. If you make a reputation with this case, it'll be at my expense.
sam		How do you mean?
jack		How much do you know?
sam		Not much.
jack		Enough though, eh?
sam		 Not really, no.
jack		OK. OK. Let's not fence around ... This is the situation. Some idiot somewhere in the building, some insect, confused two of our clients,
sam		B58/732, that's A. Buttle isn't it?
jack		Christ! You do know it all!
sam		No, no, I don't. I'm just beginning Honestly. Sorry, carry on.
jack		Well, your A. Buttle has been confused with T47/215, an A. Tuttle. I mean, it's a joke! Somebody should be shot for that. So B58/732 was pulled in by mistake.
sam		You got the wrong man.
jack		 I did not get the wrong man. I got the right man. The wrong man was delivered to me as the right man! I accepted him, on trust, as the right man. Was I wrong? Anyway, to add to the confusion, he died on us. Which, had he been the right man, he wouldn't have done.
sam		You killed him?
jack		 Sam, there are very rigid parameters laid down to avoid that event but Buttle's heart condition did not appear on Tuttle's file. Don't think I'm dismissing this business, Sam. I've lost a week's sleep over it already.
sam		I'm sure you have
jack		There are some real bastards in this department who don't mind breaking a few eggs to make an omelette, but thank God there are the new boys like me who want to maintain decent civilized standards of terrorist eradication. We've got the upper hand for the moment, but they're waiting for us to slip up, and a little slip- up like this is just the chance they're looking for.
sam		So how ...?
jack		What I've got to do now is pick up Tuttle, interrogate him at the same voltage as Buttle, to the same meter reading to the last penny, and juggle the books in electrical banking.
sam		What has Tuttle done?
jack		We suspect him of freelance subversion.
sam		 He's a freelance subversive?
jack		He's a compulsive heating engineer. A maverick ex-Central Service repair man with a grudge against society. Now, fortunately, we're nearly out of the wood, I think. At least we will be when I get this Layton woman under arrest.
sam		 What's she done?
jack		You didn't know as much about this business as you pretended to, did you?
sam		Er ... no.
jack		Very smart.
sam		Er ... but I would've found out anyway.
jack		Yes. I'm impressed.
sam		 Tell me about Layton.
jack		She witnessed the Tuttle arrest - the Buttle arrest - and since then she's been making wild allegations, obviously trying to exploit the situation - she's working for somebody, and she's not working for us.
sam		A terrorist?
sam		Ah ... thanks.
sam		 But surely, I mean, perhaps she just happened to live above the Buttles, and ...
jack		 Look after that suit, eh. Barbara chose it for me.
sam		Right. Er, you're not going to keep calling her Barbara, are you?
jack		Barbara's a perfectly good name, isn't it?
sam		 Look, about the Layton woman - maybe she's just trying to help the Buttle family.
jack		Why?
sam		Why? Hell, not for any reason ...
jack		{baffled) I don't follow you.
sam		Out of kindness.
jack		 Kindness? What's the purpose behind this line of enquiry?
sam		 So what are you going to do about her?
jack		Get her out of circulation - I've put her on the detention list.
sam		 You mean you're going to invite her in so that she can spill the beans inside the department?
jack		 Well, I ... Good point. What do you suggest?
sam		Let me try to get to her. I'll deactivate her.
jack		What does that mean? I don't want to be involved in anything unsavoury.
sam		Trust me. You do trust me, don't you?
jack		Of course. We went to school together. You're my oldest friend.
sam		And you're mine.
jack		You're the only person I can trust.
sam		Then we'd better keep this business just between the two of us.
jack		Right! Just between as and the Security Forces.
sam		They weren't at school with us.
jack		But, I've already put her on the search and detain list.
sam		Take her off the list.
jack		There's no procedure for that until she's been arrested.
sam		Say it was a mistake.
jack		We don't make mistakes.
sam		Well, I'd better get out there and try to get to her before security does. Let me borrow her dossier for a while.
jack		Er ... alright. For Christ's sake don't lose it. Here, you'd better sign for it.
sam		Thanks, Jack. I'll be in touch.
jack		Do you know what you're doing.
sam		 Trust me.
jill		But you've stamped this form before! Why won't you stamp it now?
porter		You've just said yourself, Miss, we've already stamped it. Why should we stamp it twice?
voice		Hey, you - get out of there.
guard		What do you think you're doing ... that's the Deputy Minister's lift.
sam		Sorry, I'm in a hurry.
guard		Hold on, sonny ... let's see your I.D.
sam		Shit ... it's here somewhere. My name's Lowry, Sam Lowry - Expediting ... can't this wait?
guard		No, sir ...  I'm going to have to file a report on this. Now ... what date is it today?...
sam		 Sorry, it'll have to wait.
guard		Stop!! Come back!
jill		 You're a stupid, fat arsed, obstructive, fascist moron aren't you?
porter		If you say so.
jill		You think these are tits don't you?
porter		Ah.
jill		I bet you'd like to touch them?
porter		Oh.
jill		Well don't. You're looking at twenty pounds of high explosive! And if you don't stamp this form I'm going to blow the place up!
guard		 DROP IT!!
sam		STOP! Let her go!
sam		Well done ... uh ... excellent work ... quick thinking. I'll take charge of her now ...
sam		 Come with me, please.
jill		Who are you? Let go!
sam		Don't look back! Act naturally!
jill		How can I act naturally, when you've trying to break my arm?
sam		 Ow! That hurt!
jill		Good!
sam		Oh, God ... no!
old lady		 Can't you read english? You illiterate foreign pig! You come here from your own filthy country and think you can mess our streets up! You should be fried alive, you dirty verminous ... etc. etc.
other guard		Hey, you shouldn't be reading that it's classified.
sam		 Well done, that's it ... Let's go! Vrmmm. Vrmmm.
sam		 What are you doing? For Christ's sake! Get moving!
jill		Who are you?
sam		 Sam Lowry. Hello. This sounds insane, I know, but I've been dreaming about you. Even before I saw you you were in my dreams. Weird isn't it. I mean ... I don't know what it means ... but it might mean something ... mightn't it? I hope so. Anyway you're in danger and I think we should get out of here, now, quick! Come on!
sam		 Bloody hell! Do as I say!
jill		 No.
sam		 Please!
jill		Them?
sam		Us. Them. I don't know ... just get going.
jill		 Don't litter my cab!
sam		 Oh, sorry.
sam		... This is amazing ... for me ... being here with you. I mean, in my dreams you ...
jill		I don't want to hear about your fucking dreams!
sam		Oh. But ... Look, I'm sorry I shouted at you.
jill		 Why are they all pigs at Information Retrieval?
sam		I don't know.  Hey, that's not a very nice thing to say.
sam		 You know, smoking's bad for you.
jill		It's my fucking life.
sam		 Yes, of course. Sorry.
jill		 I know you. I saw you through the floor, didn't I?
sam		Yes. Ceiling. Why did you run away?
jill		I didn't run away. I left the flat.
sam		Why?
jill		I didn't like it.
sam		Why not?
jill		It had a hole in the floor. Where are we going?
jill		Where are you taking me?
sam		What?
jill		Where are you taking me?
sam		Ah ... Er ... It looks as if you're taking me.
jill		It does doesn't it?
sam		 Where are you taking me?
jill		Don't act guilty. Act like me. I'm just getting on with my job. Or, are you just getting on with yours?
sam		What's going on here?
jill		What does it look like ... I'm collecting empties.
sam		OK. What's in the parcel?
jill		What parcel?
sam		It's heavy.
jill		A heavy Christmas present.
jill		Open it if you don't trust me.
sam		I'd rather trust you.
jill		What are you doing in Information Retrieval?
sam		Looking for you.
jill		No, really.
sam		Really.
jill		I mean, it doesn't suit you.
sam		 Suit me?
jill		Don't you know the sort of thing that Information Retrieval does?
sam		What do you mean? Would you rather have terrorists?
jill		We've got both.
sam		Things would be worse without Information Retrieval.
jill		They couldn't be worse for the Buttles.
jill		Why don't you say, no system is perfect.
sam		Well, no system is.
jill		Say, all wars have innocent victims.
sam		Well, all wars do -
jill		Who is this war against, Sam?
sam		Well, terrorists of course.
jill		How many terrorists have you met? Actual terrorists?
sam		Actual. terrorists? Well ... it's only my first day.
jill		 Look at that - right on time.
sam		What? I thought you were free to come and go as you please.
jill		Well, almost ... unfortunately I do
sam		 Every day?
sam		Turn around!
jill		What?
sam		They'll be there waiting.
jill		Who will?
sam		Security.
jill		You're joking.
sam		No. Please. They're going to arrest you.
jill		I thought you arrested me.
sam		Yes ... but, this is real. Now, stop! 
jill		 Cut it out, Sam.
sam		 Will you please turn back.
jill		 Get away!
sam		 Turn!
jill		 Stop it ... damn you!
jill		You're mad! You're out of your mind!
sam		I was right! Step on it!
jill		Let go! We've got to stop!
sam		Now you're the one that's out of your mind.
jill		Sam ... we can't outrace them. You'll kill us!
jill		Don't touch those!
jill		Come on, let's go! Let's get out of here!
sam		Oh God! What have we done?
jill		We? Don't blame me!
sam		It wasn't supposed to happen like this.
jill		 Shit! The house is on fire!
sam		"And your children all gone."
jill		What?
sam		"Lady bird, lady bird, fly away home, your house is on fire and your children all gone" ... Do you think anyone's hurt?
jill		Yes.  Come out, I know you're in there
sam		This is a hell of a time to buy a nightie.
jill		Are you still following me?
sam		Please, Jill ... I love you.
jill		Go away.
sam		There are plenty of other safe places. Why don't we go back to my flat?
jill		Leave me alone!
sam		You've got to trust me. It sounds silly but I know we were meant to meet.
jill		You mean you were meant to hijack my truck, make me crash it, and have every security man in town looking for me?
sam		I vas just trying to help. I decided to trust you. Maybe I was wrong. Whose side are you on really? Who are your friends? Who was the man who gave you the parcel? What's in it? It's the only thing you saved from the lorry .... It must he something very special.
jill		I saved you from the lorry and you're not very special.
sam		........... It's a bomb isn't it?
jill		 Oh ... Jesus!
sam		I'm going to open it!
jill		 No you're not!
voice		SAM!!
mrs terrain		It's me and Shirley!
sam		Ah ... hello, Mrs Terrain. SAM lets go of the parcel and pushes JILL away. She moves off.
sam		 Hello Shirley. Just helping someone tie up a Christmas present. How are you?
mrs terrain		My complication had a complication, but Dr Chapman says I'll soon be up and bouncing about like a young gazelle. Are you buying a Christmas present for your mother?
sam		 Er, yes ...
mrs terrain		Shirley and I come here regularly. I love romantic lingerie.
mrs terrain		 Picture me in these.
sam		 Are you alright? JILL Yes.
sam		 What a bloody stupid thing ... I should. have made you open it in the lorry
jill		There's your bomb! Our annual bribes for official ass-holes like you!
jill		 Come on, make yourself useful, there are people hurt!
jill		Hey stop ... she's hurt!
sam		DON'T TOUCH HER!!
jill		SAM .... don't!!
sam		 Where is she? Is she here?
sam		Jill! Jill! Are you there?!
sam		Is here a girl here? Tall, fair hair, blue eyes?
guard 3		 We can't allow you to do that sir, it's more than our job's worth.
sam		 I've got to find her! Jill! Jill!
sam		Jill! Jill!
warren		This is a black eye for the department, Lowry! ... And I don't care how you behaved when you were at Records! Information Retrieval is an executive branch! We're proud of our reputation and we protect it!
sam		Mr Warren ... I have to find out about ...
warren		Shut up! I don't know what's going on here, Lowry, but don't think you can intimidate us with your friends and relatives in high places! Now shape up!
sam		 Lime, I need to use your computer
lime		Sorry, a bit busy at the moment. 
sam		Shit!
sam		Come off it, Jack! Of course you can check to see if she's been arrested.
jack		I'm sorry, Sam, I'm afraid this whole case has become much more complicated since last we talked.
sam		 She's innocent, Jack --- she's done nothing wrong.
jack		Tell that to the wives of the Security men she blew up this afternoon. Listen, we've also had a report just in from Central Services that Tuttle has wrecked an entire flat and sabotaged adjacent Central Services systems - as a matter of fact, in your block. I'd keep my eyes open if I were you, Sam. Bye.
sam		 You don't really think Tuttle and the girl are in league?
jack		I do. Goodbye. 
sam		It could all be coincidental.
jack		There are no coincidences, Sam. Everything's connected, all along the line. Cause and effect. That's the beauty of it. Our job is to trace the connections and reveal them.  This whole Buttle/Tuttle confusion was obviously planned from the inside. Bye bye.
sam		Jack, she's innocent!
jack		Sam - we've always been close, haven't we?
sam		 Yes we have, Jack!
jack		Well, could you stay away from me until this thing blows over.
jill		You're late.
sam		 Jill! What are you do ... I mean ... how did you ... Are you alright?
jill		Yes.
sam		What happened to you after ...
jill		Your face ... are you hurt?
sam		No. No. I'm fine. I was worried sick about you ... I thought ...
jill		 They're gone.
sam		 Are you sure?
jill		 Yes.
sam		 C'mon, we've got to get you off the streets.
sam		For God's sake, what's happened?
spoor		Thermostat's gone. And then some.
dowser		... And then some.
sam		What have you done to my flat?
spoor		Sign here, please.
dowser		... ere please.
sam		What is it?
spoor		It's a 27B/6 of course.
dowser		...B/6 of course.
jill		 Do you repeat everying?
dowser		 ... Everything.
spoor		 This is what you get when you have cowboys round yer ducts.
dowser		... yer ducts.
spoor		I think you've got your T41 crystal inductor wired up to a reverse bobbin- threaded-solenoid-control. It's either that or a new washer.
dowser		... new washer.
spoor		Sign the form so we can get to it.
dowser		... get to it.
jill		Don't you like parties?
sam		C'mon. We've got to get out of here.
jill		 TOO LATE!
tuttle		I'll fix the damage when they've gone. I'll be ready for you tomorrow.
sam		My mother said it would be all right.
matthews		She didn't say anything about it to me.
sam		Well, she's my mother, not yours.
matthews		I won't be held responsible.
sam		How long will she he away?
matthews		 There are some who go to Dr. Jaffe's clinic who never come back at all.
matthews		 You're not a professional, are you?
jill		No, amateur.
sam		 Thank you, Matthews.
sam		Make yourself at home. Don't answer the phone or open he door to anyone. I won't be long.
jill		Where are you going?
sam		I'm going to pull some strings. It's our only hope.
jill		Don't do anything silly.
sam		Thanks for the vote of confidence.
jill		Take care.
sam		Excuse me, Dawson, can you put me through to Mr Helpmann's office?
porter		I'm afraid I can't, sir. You have to go through the proper channels.
sam		And you can't tell me what the proper channels are, because that's classified information?
porter		I'm glad to see the Ministry's continuing its tradition of recruiting the brightest and best, sir.
sam		Thank you, Dawson.
choir master		 No, no, no, Arthur, you're going flat on that G. It's your breathing. Take a breath on the end. of the previous line, after Noel. Right, one, two, three.
sam		Mr Helpmann? Are you there? Hello?
sam		 Jill?
jill		What do you think? ... is it me?
sam		 You don't exist any more. I've killed you. Jill Layton is dead.
jill		Care for a bit of necrophilia?
jill		Merry Xmas.
sam		Everything is going to be all right.
sam		 She's dead. Check the list!
guards		 You Turncoat Bastard! JUDAS!! TRAITOR!!
sam		 JILL!!!
female voice		a wonderful gift, I changed it at the chemist for some antibiotics and bathroom scales and there's enough left on the voucher for a tonsilectomy if I want to treat myself ...
guard's voice		Christmas Parcel for you, sir ... sign here please ...
sam		Where's Jill?
sam		What have you done with Jill?
sam		 Where's Jill? What's happened to Jill?
sam		I'm not guilty! Not guilty you stupid bastar...
official		We're here to save you and the tax payer money.
official		Would you like to pay the premium for a single room with a shower and a soft bed?
official		For a small charge we can keep visits from friends and relatives down to to a minimum.
official		Plead guilty, it's easier, quicker, and cheaper for everyone.
official		We're doing a survey ... Aimed at providing a better service.
official		Do you think the present system is A. efficient, B. inefficient?
official		As a taxpayer are you A. impressed, B. unimpressed
girl		Sam.
gent		Sam, what are we going to do with you?
girl		Ha ha ha ha ha.
helpmann		Sam, what are we going to do with you? Can you hear me, Sam?
sam		 Where's Jill? What have you done to her? Where is she?!
helpmann		Gillian Layton?
sam		Yes, you've got to get me out of here. I've got to find her.
helpmann		I understand, Sam, I know exactly how you feel. So I brought you a bottle of barley water.
sam		 Help me!
helpmann		I assure you, Sam, I'm doing everything within my power. But the rules of the game are laid down, and we all have to play by them - even me.
sam		This is all a mistake! Don't you understand?!
helpmann		Yes, well, from the Department's point of view you're certainly a bit of an own goal, but ...
sam		I'm not a terrorist! You must know that! I'm not guilty! Get me out of here!
helpmann		Sam, if you've been going out there and playing a straight bat, all the way down the line, you've got absolutely nothing to worry about.
sam		Please, I've got to find Jill.
helpmann		Sam, I think I ought to tell you ... I'm afraid she's upped stumps and retired to the pavilion.
sam		 Dead?
helpmann		Yes, it's all a bit confusing but, it seems she was killed resisting arrest.
sam		 No, no ... I did that...
helpmann		The odd thing is it appears to have happened twice ... a bit of a disputed call, I'm afraid.
helpmann		 So, there you are. All I can say is, don't fall at the last fence. The finishing post's in sight. See you in the paddock. Good luck. Keep your eye on the ball. Got to go .... Can't keep the orphans waiting.
guard		Don't fight it, son .... confess quickly ... Before they get into the expensive procedures. If you hold out too long you could jeopardise your credit rating.
guard		11/AFT/607, sir.
sam		Jack?
sam		Jack?... Jack?
jack		 Shut up!
sam		Jack, I'm innocent! Help me.
jack		Bastard!!!
sam		This is all a mistake. Jack, please take that mask off.
jack		You stupid bastard!
sam		What?
jack		How could you do this to me?
sam		Help me, Jack! I'm frightened!
jack		How do you think I feel? You shit!
sam		Jack ...
jack		 Shut up! This is a professional relationship!
sam		JACK!! ... You can't ... No, don't!
tuttle		Detonate!
tuttle		Let's go!
matthews		 A sad loss. Your mother was with her at the end. The doctor said there was no pain.
sam		Where is she?
spiro		Ah, yes, Mr Lowry. It's so good you could make it. Right this way.
spiro		 Mrs Lowry? Mrs Lowry is ...
spiro		 Madam ... CUT to WOMAN turning, half in flirtatious conversation. It is SAM's MOTHER, but miraculously another twenty years younger and ... a parody of SAM's Dream Girl.
mother		Sam!!! 
sam		 Mother? ... What ... what's ... you've got to help me ...
mother		 Not now ... please
young gallant		 I'll -
mr helpmann		He's got away from us, Jack.
jack		I'm afraid you're right, Mr. Helpmann. He's gone.
