****Dialogues from script :Break.txt****

3		I think your fire is out A: I think Dad . . . I'm sorry. I need a woman, Dad. I'm going out and find a woman, Dad- F. startled, very distant, slowly wondering aloud:
4		first,     group        of   friends        following       dressed    in    fancy    threads ready    to      go someplace. ITother, looking at                 in elevator, at first unable A.                                                    to
a dylan-type, freaky hair		4.                              opening. Elevator and corduroys and knee-high boots  is leaning up against the side of the elevator in same pose as A's as elevator opens.                          Looks at the party of people     wth        cold   blue     eyes.      Goes       in    elevator   after    last has     left.
5		A .:        No. !I. :       Why not: A .:        No. 14. :       why not? A .:        No. Anthony returns             to pocket of his jeans. comb
10		a lion's head telling us what sort of rug.                  She is Her Doberman Pincer warming A's cold feet in her lap. is quietly resting on the couch above them, surveying. Sound of fire crackling. D-. : Oh we will eventually. It takes time.     Right now you're perfectly dreadful . . . You don't know you're    uptight. Look what to do with yourself. They're   beautiful at your hands. long creative hands, Shot of hands. D .:       but they're tense, quivering as if you'd had malaria in the East. Smells him, a bit of disgust in her face. D .:       You're giving off no scent. You're cold . . . No smell. You're clammy. Shot:            painting of black man with large red flaming D'   S
...		want me . . . be yourself don't be honest either . . . there's no such thing as honesty . . . those who try it inevitably come off smelling stained. Cut: Coming closer together on the rug. Shot his fingers kneading the inside of her mouth, Shot D. playing with his zipper. Shot A. taking his brown leather pants off. Shot dog watching,
15		13.                      The sound of jazz now, as an increasing Clash. We go faster. senseof unreality envelopes the city. It's cold, he Anthony     walking the dark night streets. briskly, driving on in spite of his hugs himself. Walks growing     fear.    Pliles-Davis-type jazz playing off. Shot of cat  from the top, his striped back undulating, gliding, jumping up, sitting. Shot of A.'s other cat, the Siamese, sitting, watching the striped cat. The former Shot of the street, a homosexual is digging A. wearing a fur overcoat festooned with flower patterns and Xoroccan     lace.
17		Bumping up against the door of the toilet as they hear A. coming    in.     One of them saying in husky drugged voice Yea . . . well a . . . Shot:     A. combing his long hair in the mirror with the light blue comb. Closer. Shot: A's calmer face. Shot: A. in his forest threads, his hair longer, in the forest,    combing       his    hair        with    a     small     jagged    pocket    mirror. His face reflected on a jagged screen. Long shot from side of                      in woods combing his hair. A.
20		17,          Voice      off,    Ibther's      regalvoice,       previous    scene dissolving   into    bedroom     of   Mother's     who    is    in   bed    looking
21		Father's voice, off: My son, blessed be the stars that bring f7ou to me. -
22		glancing through their shades at each other, unconcerned. An utter silence,,            A. casually strolling back and forth. Advertisements on walls for soups, intermixed with posters Dean.      Dette Davis. of   people's   faces,blownup.         Brando. Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman- Edward G. Robinson, etc. A. stops at Blowup of The Silver Surfer. Walks on.          Shot of him through colored cat's light pink lens across the tracks.               A. reading a Poster: Believe That Love is the Greatest Thing w   I
23		 and then through the brother's pink shades. Suddenly train whistles down tunnel, coming down A.'s track.                                  Then brother's. -Train Shot through A-Is eyes. approaching,    screaming.    Shot through rich man's eyes. Nervously pacing at the very edge of the track.         Roar of train.     Rich man jumping head on into the tracks.        Roar as train goes by, pulls to a stop.        Long shot A. casually getting into subway.                      Shot of brother, left Pulls away. alone. on subway platform.      Watching the train pull out. Train through his pink shades.         Looking at the bloodied tracks.     Do not see what he sees.      Camera on his unsurprised eyes.     Greys can kill greys.
this		implying        his        own     ability        to     see       himself      comically.
a       dime      mister?		Voices        off: A:                If     you       need     bread      man,    steal     it
of     eden.		Shot       of Shot:         unframed         blowup            of        Dylan         on     wall.
going       to        be.		Alexander,            handsome             all         in        voluptuous            black,          walking This away     from         poster,          down      a     few        steps,          into         his     apartment.
anthony,		Rimbaud,              the     young        French       poet           he     identifies              with. in     the        apartment         with        him,        is     more          modern,            more     uncertain            Of
31		force yourself, these crazy people pin a label on it -- Masochist, why do you punish yourself? Alexander:                     So now what? , A soft Alexander picking it up- Telephone    rings. feminine voice, husky, saying over the phone: Is    Diana      there?
33		Images end. Alexander:     . . . I don't think you know yet whether you want to live or die. Close shot A's face.     Pause,  who after all
very few of us young ones ever		get    on" . . . and so few,                    SO
all      else      had		what I found . . . I                     found        nothing         but     myself. fallen --           Truth       Illusion,            whatever          it     is,       and       The      Dream       had
oh!     the     banner            of       raw        meat       against the		silk     of       seas       and     artic         flowers.                             veerings                 of     chasms! Music, and     the       clash        of        icicles     against         the             stars                      I*11     re-
37		1 will be raving mad and never work and never show my jewels - . . . and one night  . . . at the musicend of death .,. staring flatfaced into a pond . . . the sea, the ghosts of the lungs . . . the promise of things to be . . . A bony damp cavern where women grow like in the night, seaweed from the sea, they owl iboo iboo.        cry
38		. . . porous . . . stumbling towards spectrum . . . slipping on sound ,.t eating air.       I tell myself, reminding myself, it is wet in my shell, in my strong, strong shell, it is wet and 0 now I feel . . . I feel the days melting into years and light- years liquidating the years and time itself crumbling . . . through the lungs the ghosts sing, their songs carry into the air, air atmmsphere, air all about  and float my starved eyes on the wide window of the sea.       And lull my eyesockets to a wide-eyed sleep . . . strange sample of the sea, transfusing the spark of ingenuity
39		                 there       is     no        ingenuity          in    the     sea       is    there? ... I        wonder:        what     sharks          are        poised       between        here        and      there,
street, these                words        following            him,		Anthony,            on     the He's          tired,        exhausted,           worn leans        up     against       the        blue    fence.
40		To Be Real! To Feel! FREE! (But instead of the previous semi-documentary style, this scene is shot again with a closer, realer camera, catching the strong desire in Anthony to achieve what he writes.
the city		Time and place and worlds have changed. has been unreal, frightening.     Here a much more relaxed primitive world -- that of snakes, slow quiet, but suddenly Anthony moves very fast, very violent, and very dangerous. from the Fear of the Cat into the Dream of the Snake. He And never for- will be bitten by it, and he will kill it. getting it, will journey on into the final, deep-sea world of silence.    Then Freedom. A, has gone to the East to fight with the mercenary He's part soldiers against the wild tribes of the Forest. of a small detachment of fifteen-twenty men resting deep . in the jungle-forest of a small old abandoned Buddhist temple.   The relics are broken, the statues on the floor, mixed with the mercenaries' light individual equipment --
41		rifles, small    knapsacks,   grenade    belts.     In this temple Buddha still stands , some stray unknown forest people still coming to worship here,       There are fresh joss sticks burn- ing.   Several   mercenaries, mostly black in their early twenties r are inside the temple, sprawled on the floor on their ponchos, a small fire going.         One is sleeping, another reheating a piece of meat; they have killed a wild deer and his half-eaten corpse is still slowly roasting on a stick built over the fire.       Several of the blacks are smoking the Forest Hash which they are passing sound in They wear an two pipes which are very long and beautiful. individual mixture of uniforms although their pants are all If they wear the same -- light    tight-fitting      breeches. shirts -- several are bare-chested with medallions  and tattoos -- the shirts are loose, some of them ruffled, and mixing with the camouflage of the jungle -- green and tan gold, Some wear head bands around black and white striped, etc. their long hair, silver bracelets, beads, one wears sun- glasses, another brother with a thin hawklike nose wears a black bandanna tightly wrapped on his head, as if, like the other brothers, he was just off the city block taking This is to be kept in mind for the a trip in the Jungle. Fate that befalls this outfit results from the fact that they are not really part of The Forest.
very few of them		spite of their disguises, from The City. will be able to survive the primitive ordeal of this world,
42		Though th@ outfit has been several weeks in the Forest, the blacks have no beards.     A small transistor.radio   plays inside the Temple and two of the Brothers are dancing softly to the sound of soul music. The white world is for the most part outside the Temple, sprawled about it in the thick grass, relaxing. Some have beards, others have shaved, but their faces are hard and dirty, dust and dirt is deeply ingrained in the cracks of skin,    Anthony is an exception, he has kept him- self clean, his beard barely visible, although there are small lines of fatigue under his eyes and a small scar under his left eye, the result of a previous wound, not serious.    He tends to rub it occasionally.    Ironically,    in the war, he has become even softer. Time has crumbled: he is spacing himself. The contrast is made then, by camera CloseuPs, of the black and white features,     The Blacks are tenderer, softer.     The Whites are tired, cruel.   The blacks Sing- Dance.     Although inside they are as blue as the sky, and scared.
43		as he walks, the sun gleaming through the trees, almost moving with him, seen and then not seen and seen again. From a distance, inside the temple, on the radio, Sam Cooke's song "Cupid" is playing loud, and sort of sad like all Cooke's songs , giving a texture of music and sunlight to his walk.
44		from    the           temple. *                                                                Isaac,      a A.     approaching         from       a   distance                        moder-
with     sharp         attractive		ately    tall,              slender,      muscled       Indian, features, no beard whatever, his long black hair curling
shakes		as he feels the camera on him.                                  Looks at camera. his head.              Turns away from the camera-
in here cannot		can't, this wrld a     picture          but     knows      he
goes and sits by francis, a brother		be     photographed,                 He has tender features- He who     is       very        close     to      Anthony.
45		is playing, and as the two brothers dance, Francis, who has a very high singing voice, though not as good as Smokey's whom most people mistake for a woman he sings so 'tenderly,   starts to sing with the radio:
46		As he sings, the rest do not look at him sing, they know he can sing, they've heard this song a hundred times, they know it too.      They lie where they are, look at what they do, and deep inside, where it's blue, they listen.
47		Camera moving from Adams to the ones he calls his friends.    To King, who is the biggest brother, very black, with big white cotton picker*s    nails.   His large pink hand- some tongue, as he says: Adams:      The King has a pink tongue es. He says he eats a lot of chicken *.. there ain't no chicken here .a. in the forest.
49		told me when I asked him why he took allthcse pictures, he said he'd never used his eyes before . . . he says this wasteland is beautiful . . . that's what makes him crazy . . . talking like that . . . those kind of people never seem to
51		Lerner taking his head into his hands, shaking his hair, pretending to     weep:
picked cotton till		parachutist, an officer, a scout,              I
then i picked		there weren't no more cotton to be picked, smoked more shit rocks and sold those.      I done my time.             I
been busted four five		than you`ll smoke in a lifetime.           I
52		=li-&ed the walls, we balled ourselves ask a King young ma, ask him if in all the time we been together he ever
53		with it.      As when Francis was singing, most of the brothers have not seemed to listen to F&&I make his scene,                               They hear but they don't look, as if their ears, eyes, and mind were all separate senses. Manny toying with the radio, gets it playing again    but some crazy station and Lili                      Marlene   is    being
54		almost sympathize      with the poor snake, fighting wildly, through the circle and they .are running Suddenly   it breaks after it again.       They cannot catch it, but the powerful snake, making one mistake and unable to pick out Isaac, the Indian, who is standing perfectly still watching, slithers   unknowingly through Isaac's spread silent legs. We haven't seen Isaac yet.            First shot of his legs and the snake sliding through. His hand speeding downandpinning it by the neck.              Tilt up, medium shot, to his face as he scoops it up.          A grimace of pleasure on his face, snake dangling by its neck, its tongue flickering Sees it helplessly.                                  Lets it dangle, Isaac    hisses   at   it. Wraps it around his is   non-poisonous.     Stops    hissing. wrist; on the other wrist, coincidentally, he has a replica
55		that it is not poisonous) its tongue and head swaying over Isaac's chest.     On his bicep, Isaac has a small graceful tatoo Born To Kill, Long shot of him approaching Temple. Francis:    [off) Crazy people dig snakes, crazy people. A.         Violence is like snakes. We hear the snap of his shutter as he takes another picture of Isaac approaching . . . very quick ,o,
56		snake makes when it sways.                                Frontal They turn swiftly. shot of Isaac standing right behind them the snake wrapped around his arm, its head swaying out in front of Francis. Francis doesn't move, but his face muscles tighten and his eyes dilate a little. Francis:        Don't fool with me man, don't fool with me, Isaac    smiling.     Behind him, still   sprawled around, the radio Flaying, are the brothers and Shah and Lerner and Adams, but things are quieter and without look- ing they listen. Isaac Anthony is also repulsed by the snake. sees this.     Smiling a bit, says slowly, Isaac:          You been staying a long time in the shade Anthony.              fixing to get a tan? . . . Like his YOU
57		a tremendous joy in this living wet damp creature, his fear of it disappearing.     The snake responding P beginning to calm down on Anthony'sbody. At this point, Isaac says: Give it to me. Anthony    hesitating.   Attracted by the power in Isaac's eyes.
58		his left hand and without hesitating violently slices its head off, a cruel look of brutality on his face. With his left hand, Isaac whips the snake's *im?iw head in the air, as if it were a scalp. His arm is quivering.    His head is down, the gesture not deing that solemn, but more spontaneous, quick, contemporary, the gesture has already faded, he pulls in his arm. Puts the head to his lips.     Drinks. A. looking Turns to A.    Offers him the head. at Isaac, powerfully attracted by the look of strength in Drinks. Isaac's eyes.    Takes the snake head. it goes down Tastes the blood in his mouth. strong.    A smear of it on his lips making them corral- Close shot of Isaac's colored.    Close shot of his lips. wide strong mouth. A shot, a single rifle shot is heard from out- side. Its echo dies. They look at Anthony and Isaac haven't moved. Isaac's eyes alight with anticipation at the each other. Anthony's    eyes   completely - rifle shot, the call of danger. lost in Isaac's animal eyes, feeling a powerful attraction to this almost human fire. Shot of fire.    Scene 1. Anthony     under- close, of Isaac's face. Shot, standing the fire is in people and between them- The other soldiers The rifle shot is repeated.
59		are hurrying out of the temple now, not having been alarmed by the first shot.      The radio going with them. Shot of Isaac and Anthony standing in front of Buddha. Solitary shot of the rifle that fired being raised by an arm into the air.          Resting in the sky, flat, in Indian style.     A cry is heard.       . Dissolve
60		The screen slowly comes to light and we see a young tribe, maybe a dozen, dancing freely in the forest by a stream.        Perhaps they are the enemy, it is not made clear yet.     They are a mixture of young men and women and their children, white and black.                  They dance hugging each other, their long hair jumping, in all sorts of love contortions that display their freedom.                     They are all in love with each other, with                                                         And easy as it iS forest. their     god, with    the to make fun or laugh at, this scene at first must be done with the camera truly involved in their spirit of joy and freedom. The hair Some are blondes, some black haired. long; the players young and contemporary looking and above to preserve the spirit of the scene, they must move all, well, in some sort of time to the tambourine, throwing their bodies into it.               Ideally, they are naked, and some But    barring       that,      they   wear    fiasy of     them   body    painted.
61		want to be is left up to them,     In his mind, the writer forms the image of the black panther -- a sort of ineradic- able wariness at the root of their Freedom, unlike the White who when he loses his mind, really proceeds to lose it, and to embrace the new.    Whether the blacks actually dance is left up to them.     They could be sentinels in the woods, they could be on the stream watching the others do their dance.
62		Comes up on Bunny.     Puts binoculars over his eyes.     Do not know what he sees.     Brings binoculars down. Looks at his map.     Is puzzled.                           around. Squints.     Turns Motions to the men with his arm to sweep out downslope, slowly.    Finger to his lips to indicate silence, although the men know what they are doing anyway and can hardly see his gestures. Frontal    shot The men disappearing in the forest. of them inching down the slope to the stream.              Then side There are view of them approaching.        Music growing louder. no sentinels around, oddly. They approach the stream and quietly crouch down behind rocks, trees, dead logs.        Take off their knapsacks. What they see at first does not really excite them, they are much too wary and as a group have up to now functioned as soldiers. Shot of A's face.     A. moving up further, very interested.     They have been watching for a while and Un- Francis and controllably,    they start inching further up. They pass another brother joining A. from different sides. Anthony, putting his rifle and each other a puzzled look. knapsack down, taking his camera out and shooting the tribesmen. Others. Shots of Adams, Lerner.
63		Puts the binoculars down.       Picks his rifle up, puts it to his shoulder, his eye squinting, medium to close shot, he is an expert marksman, his legs loosely spread and the stock of his rifle deeply imbedded in the shoulder, the rifle slightly twisted inward, his rear elbow coming up off the ground as he sights in; for a little man, he shoots high off the body, very confident, very precise. Camera dwells on him as he is about to shoot. But he hears footsteps behind him.       Takes his eye from the stock, squinting, not looking around.       The footsteps getting closer.                                      On the feet Shot of the feet next to Lee, are moccasins, they are Isaac's,       Lee looking up at Isaac, who has a small French submachine gun cradled in his arms, and is looking down at the stream bed.       Isaac giving Lee a look and proceeding down to the stream, his action fore- stalling a massacre.     Lee with hate in his eye, staring at Isaac's back.     He squints.
66		hugging her.     She is so far gone into the ecstasy she doesn't notice really who it is.          He grins madly and The other starts making off into the woods with her. whites with shouts following him, hugging the women like satyrs at the rape, kicking the almost unconscious, help- less men away with their boots, some knocking them away with their rifles.       Lerner fighting for the women but The women begin to realize what is being knocked aside. One A few screams. happening and start struggling. heavily bearded white chasing a girl, no more than sixteen, Shah wading out to into the stream, thrashing with her. help her, struggling with the big soldier who throws him off.     Shot of Lee in the woods raising his rifle and expertly firing into the water around Rhah, warning him off.                                                  A black Rhah looking wildly up into the woods. tribesman jumping on him.       They scramble in the water- Shot of Lee, putting the rifle away, Doesn't He squints, looking down at the chaos, pleased. move.
68		A:            No. She smiles.
69		begins, a long sequence.       Their movement is deeper into the forest away from the fast-fading music. They increase their speed until they are running as fast as they can through the trees.       Joanna is as swift as a deer and al- But ways seems to elude Anthony, who is also very swift. rather than lose him, she hides, and he finds her or she lets him see her, and the chase begins again, the only sound their speeding naked feet on the forest floor- As Anthony runs, he sees the snakes in the trees and at their foot, and in his path too but the chase has made a young savage out of him and he runs by these hissing snakes without thought or concern.       Just to take her, like his companions are taking back at the stream. The chase is long.     He catches her at the base of a tree, perhaps the same tree where they began, the same snake hissing in the tree.       They entwine, taking long deep breaths  they are falling togeth- er onto the forest floor, their eyes closed, Anthony SO happy f so out of breath, his breathing her breathing, his (Shot animal moan the only sound now in the forest . low
bunny's boyish		The screen still in darkness. 44. angry voice off: F?hat's the matter do I smell bad? Am I dirty?                        How to feel!   she screams very loud,
71		dead girl.
trying to kill		46.           Cut.        Anthony springing on Bunny. Bunny, Butit'san even match and they go on fighting use- lessly and camera, losing interest in them, pans to tribe people running off into the woods on the other side of the stream like fauns.            Some soldiers are standing around the dead girl, some of them amazed that the rape should end in murder.   Anthony and Bunny, both exhausted, are struggling off to the side, out of breath.             The Leader of the Tribe striding up to the girl, picking her up, she dangles wax white in his strong arms, a lifeless puppet.             He speaks to the soldiers, clearly, slowly: .                   All of you will pay for this, black as well as white            . .  you are animalsi you are beasts1 l
they squat on		Bunny, motions for them to take a break. the rocks on the edge of the stream, pulling their ponchos
his voice,		Shot: A's face, his eyes cast down. off: Without you Joanna .*. I loved you. . . . it is darkness. Shot of the woods. His eyes rising. Thinking. Even tu- Shot: F&ah's face in profile. ally, he says in passing: Isaac didn't come back. During this scene of thought on the rocks between Rhah and Anthony, Francis and a few other brothers, includ- ing the white smoker, Adams, make a slow individual pro- They cessional by Rhah and A. to take a pass on the pipe. come by in ones and leave again to go back to their own rocks; the effect is almost of a ceremony celebrated for the last time.
one of the tribes-		rifle no sooner crashes on his head. men straddles him as he lies on the ground, his head bleed- ing, about to scalp him, a brutal look of revenge on his face.    It is the former leader of The Tribe.         His knife in the air.                                             The   tribes- A hand grips it hard.      Stays it. man turning to Isaac.       Hesitates.    RUGS off to kill again. Isaac looking at the unconscious Anthony.         His smashed camera lies next to him.       Seeing the dead snake, taking it all in with a little gleam of the eyes, perhaps amused
86		On my back A:  Rhah:                                              You You got to be strong man, to live. got to be strong to smoke.          got to be strong to do what YOU
. . . swim,		care of yourself . . . and if you do go to jail
picking the		few hippies hanging from statues watching. Walking slowly like High fqoon down the suitcase up. little sidestreet. Shot: Twenty-five California cops in motorcycle boots and plastic helmets with Brando goggles and gun belts Pan of their and sticks and badges gleaming like diamonds. bodies and faces, the camera going down the barridade           they have set up.     The faces, all white, are strong, their thighs husky. Music off, starting Shot: A walking towards them. very lowly: When I wake up,          put on my makeup . . . and I I
a small		Aretha Franklin. say a little prayer for you. portion of the song.                          A   approaching Cut to silence. closer, zooming out from him to catch him with machine gun in his gloves.                                Rlow Up of Joanna on Stopping.   Close up. the cover of a magazine, the title of the magaiine in large letters CINEPTA.
91		Explosion picture.   A. throwing his huge pineapple grenade.
posters    advertising		53.          The California airport. Anthony, his shades on, in his afghan coat having THE SUN. his bags examined.      Flash is one counter down, also being examined.     They are both very stoned: at least Anthony is and everything he sees is through a detached fish-eyed lens, slightly colored blue.       They look up, catch each other's eye. A looking around through his fish-eye at the roving officials who circle outside the baggage line, their hands behind their backs, watching the examiners and the examined.
94		This way. please. Long shot of the official pointing to it. Looking Anthony walking stiffly to the door. His voice off: one last time to the exit doors. Run!
the		54.        Shot: Anthony at the examining room door. official from behind, opening it. Stepping inside. Anthony scratching his scar. Officials behind a large police station type desk. One brother in front of it, putting his things back in his pockets, smiling at A. giving him the fist of triumph sign. Heavyset official looking up at A. disinterestedly: Well, you know the procedure. Pause A:         No Take every- Official: We run a bodysearch here. Put it on the desk. thing out of your pockets. Shot: desk A. slowly, resignedly but still hoping, taking The items out of his overcoat.     Taking his coat off. contraband tightly laced to his back under his green, ruffled shirt.     The official running through the items On the desk, holding a pistol slug in the air, a couple of teeth, a small black skull  Arms out please.     Stretch the legs.
97		coat.    The FBI man, nodding his flat crewcut head as if to say 'I like it'. An attractive, rich-looking            in   her    thirties woman
99		S* as distinguishing      marks, they use their threads. Each walks differently from the other, like different types of fish in an aquarium.         There is also a large minority of old 'hippy' types, Youngr not so tough, a fatalistic young romantic look about them,
voice off:		58.          Camera panning through the block. Getting into the car. Over there, Camera fading to catch three of the prisoners, swarming high up near the ceiling on the barsI like fish rather than monkeys, looking out the small slit of a window looking down into the parking lot. VOICE :      The yellow chick in blue. Side Shot  of their faces, catching the sunlight.    One of them sucking in his breath. Shot:     Blonde getting into the car in the Sun- light, slamming the door.       In the background we see the sealed prison building, modern, small windows, in the heart of the city.
100		Shot: their faces looking out through the bars, wide eyed, exaggerated          effect.       Fading into Shot of the head trustee  bearded, coming up behind the prisoners.                   Pointing. Get down.
passes two		Walks further on down the block.
the water		63.         The sparring brother in the shower. The He pushes a button. squirting out like a fire hose. shower stops.       Comes out.    Dries himself, humming, then singing. Fade
104		bread, no butter, ravioli and a small sticky piece of cake, Nothing to drink but coffee.        Anthony eating with them, his undershirt still on, his hair a mess.           There is little talk. The sparring bro.ther, the same one who was in the shower, is sitting with another brother across from A.           Looking at A. curiously.        Asks:
106		Once I spoke to you of long silences where we stare, just stare at air.     Once        spoke to you and I
107		What did you do? Jonah, smiling, wrapping his hands around his shoulders under the blanket:
108		Jonah:        (not            him do this, a slight seeing
you		short: Ant.bony      killing the sneke)        You have to love. to be free           . . . and you have to be
110		voice off: I remember.     Anthony slowly takes Jonah's head in his hands, brings it together with his.      Anthony releases his breath.     Jonah's hand feels his cheek, gropes along on it.   They kiss each other's mouth, tenderly, their eyes closed.   Fade, past the faces of Joanna, Francis, Isaac, Rhah, in that order back to the face of Alexander, who sits all in black by himself in his apartment, slumped in a chair, his hands between his knees, looking very sad, his head hanging off his left shoulder.       His voice off, very low:
we dreamt		68.                    Your mind was mine Anthony. together.   We discovered reality and it died with the dream We grew another and what we dreamt, we could never have. mind,   We emancipated our souls, and the cost . . . was that our feeli:;gs died.    We buried ourselves in the security Of thought and not knowing it, we fell prey to our own minds. If ir. cannot eat other minds and Our thought was hungry. other minds cannot eat it, then like some horrible plant, which yc~ accused me of being, the mind will curl in and eat its own self. Fading into Alexander rises from the chair. Anthony and Jonah together fading into
112		Alexander          rising        on        camera.       His      voice        still
i&     holds it next to him,		Lighting           the     torch. burning        brilliantly, casting                   a    weird        surreal       light       on     his
113		What, who is this laughing at who? Which Alexander laughs at which Alexander? . . . Which Alexander shall inherit the Earth? . . . - shall inherit Ye the Earth.    but alas! A face is a the birth of faith follows.     Faith and face. face.   For have I not functioned on, samefaced everyday forever, believing,    having to believe in as simpk a thing . . e as divine good, divine aid, all the divinities my fear
114		still holding it in his hand, tasting             the    fire)   disappears
115		Gush pond . . . foam, roll over and by ice, alerted.       Alert1 over, rise and roll, rise and roll  Sound fades.      His voice off, calmer, more lucid, bringing to an end: In the garden when I was young the They are beasts of a fabulous small graceful lions run. elegance they sniff flowers and crack open pink parasols, when I was young, in the aethiopian gloom, in the shaded of   afternoons   splendid   with   ambitious   odors   and memory
116		In the north was the nothing, towards the south the void, and over it an old God had hung an invisible mantle he       In its bosom we play the practice of our hearts . . . our hearts expire, puff adders vex the desert sand . . . we titter . . . we stop . . . without warning, we see
the r&ream.		12)     Francis crying   for    help   in 13) Anthony dancing to the James Brown with the colored chick, the sound of the song breaking the silence of the movie camera's purr. 14) Anthony and Jonah touching each other for the first time 15) Anthony in a cardin           double-breasted suit and turtleneck, wide brimmed hat, expensive gators, flowery handkerchief,    looking very strange and out of character passing between two chicks  Joanna and Isaac bendingoverAnthony              at the stream, nursing him
****Dialogues from script :Breakdown.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  FADE IN:  EXTREMELY TIGHT ON ELECTRONIC GUTS  of a video camera. The screwdriver blade of a Swiss Army knife ENTERS FRAME, methodically tightening a row of screws.  PULL BACK to reveal:
howard		How about it, Jeff?
jeff		Done.
jeff		 Sniper.
howard		Where?
jeff		High-rise. Top floor.        Window in the middle.
howard		 Stay on him. Stay on him.        Now go back to the woman. Now!
howard		Stay tight on the sniper. Jesus -- look at him! He's about fourteen! Don't lose this!
jeff		He sees her.
howard		Stay on her. If she runs, widen and try to get her and sniper in the same frame.
jeff		I said he sees her.
howard		I heard you.    Stay on her.
jeff		 No... no...
jeff		Sniper!   Sniper! Sni--
street		 The woman looks up in Jeff's direction, confused, breaking stride --  We hear a burst of automatic gunfire --
street		 The woman's body jolts from the impact of the bullets. The books go flying from her hand. She spins to the pavement, her hair billowing.
jeff		 just stands there, a shattered expression. The camera hangs at his side. He stares at the dead woman as a pool of dark blood expands around her body.  CUT TO:
amy		God, I missed you.
jeff		Me too.
amy		Let's get out of here. Where's your equipment? Don't tell me you checked it?
jeff		 This is it.
amy		No camera?
amy		No nothing?
amy		Ah ha.
amy		Jeff?
amy		Can I come in?
amy		Couldn't sleep?
amy		I remember when you took that. We had fun on that trip, didn't we?
amy		You want to talk about it?
jeff		There's nothing to talk about.
amy		C'mon, Jeff.
jeff		I told you. I quit.   Walked out. end of story.
amy		That's   it?
amy		Whatever happened back there wasn't your responsibility. You can't keep beating yourself up over it.
amy		What do you think? You could have stopped that girl from getting killed?
jeff		You don't understand...
jeff		It was different this time.
jeff		I talked to Reynolds.  He thinks I could still get the job at the San Diego station.
amy		Oh, Jeff, you didn't...
jeff		Think of it. Low pressure, a steady paycheck. So I shoot city council meetings -- how bad could it be?
amy		Is that what you really want -- or are you just running away?
jeff		Who's running? It's good money, full benefits. I'm tired of freelance. We could finally put some money in the bank.
amy		You know I'll never stand in your way. But you've worked so hard. Are you sure you want to throw it away?
jeff		Throw what away? Don't you get it? I don't do anything. I sit, I watch, I film -- I let it happen.
amy		You're supposed to let it happen. It's your job.
jeff		No, Amy.   It's my excuse.
jeff		That girl... it's like I was paralyzed. I wanted to do something, but I didn't. I just stood there and watched her get killed.
jeff		Please, babe, I need this.     Say yes and we'll take as long    as you want -- drive cross-country    and make a vacation out of it.     What do you say?
amy		Jesus, Jeff...
jeff		Sorry.     I took my eyes off the road.
amy		 Maybe it's time we took a break, you know?
jeff		I'll pull over next chance we get.  Sorry...
trucker		On vacation?
amy		Sort of.    We're moving, actually.
trucker		Whereabouts?
amy		California. We thought we'd take the scenic route.
trucker		Huh. In that case, you oughta try the Pass Road, 'bout thirty miles west. Real pretty, makes a loop through the hills, then hooks back up with the highway.
amy		Thanks. I'll mention it to my husband.
trucker		Okay, then. Good luck.   Enjoy the rest of your trip.
earl		 Nice car.
jeff		Thanks.
earl		Air, C.D., leather -- I guess you sprung for the whole nine yards.
jeff		I guess.
earl		Then again, out here, what you really need's a C.B. radio.
jeff		Is that right?
earl		'Course, if you use a C.B., you gotta have a handle.
earl		How about Shit-for-Brains?  You damn near killed us back there, boy.
jeff		Look, I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You pulled out in front of me.
earl		The hell I did. I saw what happened.
jeff		How about if we just forget it, okay? I'm sorry it happened. I don't want any trouble.
earl		 Yeah.     I bet you don't.
earl		Howdy, ma'am. Caught this fellow tryin' to steal your Cherokee.
amy		What was that about?
jeff		Nothing. Guy in the truck. Thinks I tried to hit him.
jeff		C'mon, let's go.
amy		You want me to drive?
jeff		Later.   Just get in.
amy		Is something wrong?
jeff		No, let's just go.
amy		This isn't the Grand Prix, you know.
amy		What's bothering you?
jeff		I told you. Nothing.  The guy was an asshole.
jeff		What'd you get?
amy		Junk food fiesta. Sno Balls, Yoo Hoo, Moon pies... can you believe they still make this stuff?
jeff		You kidding. It's probably gourmet cuisine around here.
amy		 This is crazy. Look at this. Says if you win this mail-in contest, you can choose either ninety thousand dollars or ninety thousand doughnuts.
amy		What would you do with ninety thousand doughnuts?
jeff		I dunno... Sell 'em for thirty cents each and pay off this car.
amy		Very funny.  Alright, what about ninety thousand dollars? What would you do with that?
jeff		I don't know.    Look, Amy, I'm not --
jeff		Sonofabitch!! My camera!        He stole my camera!
amy		 Who?
jeff		The redneck at the gas station! He lifted it right under my nose! My brand new Nikon.  Goddammit.
amy		Should we go back?
jeff		What's the use. He's probably halfway to Bumblefuck now, the bastard.
amy		Look, maybe if we call the cops --
jeff		What the hell?
amy		What'd you do?
jeff		Nothing.   I --
jeff		Hang on -- I can't steer!
amy		 Found your camera.
jeff		Ow!
amy		Are you okay?
jeff		I'm fine.
jeff		 I said I'm fine, okay?
amy		Out of range?
amy		What's going on, Jeff?
jeff		What's it look like?      I'm trying to fix the car.
amy		Not the car.
jeff		What?
amy		What's going on with you?
amy		It's been a month since you got back. You can't keep shutting me out like this.
amy		Jeff, I'm talking to you.
jeff		 Look, I really don't want to go into this right now. I'm changing jobs, our finances are fucked, and we're stuck in the middle of nowhere. So could we maybe just fix the --
jeff		Christ, not these guys...
jeff		Asshole...
amy		 Jeff --
jeff		What the hell?
amy		What's he doing?
jeff		I don't know.
down highway		 the PICKUP STARTS UP again. It pulls another U-turn and drives away, melting into the desert.
jeff		Yeah.   Our car broke down.
red		 I figured that much. You want a hand pushing it off the road?
jeff		Thanks, I'd appreciate it.    Amy, you want to steer?
jeff		Think you could radio a tow truck for us?
red		I sure would if I could, mister, but my C.B. blew a fuse this morning. I'm waiting till I hit the truck stop on I-40 to get it fixed.
jeff		How far is that?
red		About 60 miles.
jeff		 Oh.
red		I'd offer to take a look, but it's hard to say with these new engines. Used to be, you could give 'em a kick and a holler and they'd start right up. Now it's all computers and chips.
jeff		It's a new car.
red		That could be the problem. You been running it pretty fast?
red		Tell you what. If you want a ride, there's a little diner up the road. Belle's. They got a pay phone. You could call a tow truck from there.
jeff		Nice     of you to offer. But we've got a     lot of stuff in the car. I think     we're better off waiting for a cop     to come along.
red		 Good    luck.
amy		Are you nuts?
jeff		We don't know this guy.
amy		He's offering to help. It       could be hours before anyone else      comes along. It's 100 degrees.        You really want to be stuck out      here?
jeff		Amy, I've got my equipment in the car. All our stuff. What if those guys come back and we're not here?  Jesus... don't be stupid...
amy		Stupid is sitting out here waiting for a cop when we already have a ride.
amy		Stupid was letting you talk me into leaving Boston.
amy		Excuse me? Do you think you could drop me at that diner?
red		 Sure thing. How about you, mister? I could take you both just as easy.
amy		That's okay. My husband wants to stay with the car. I'll just get my purse.
jeff		What do you think you're doing?
amy		I'm going to the diner. I'm going to call a tow truck. Then I'm going to order an iced tea and wait. Good-bye, Jeff.
jeff		 You're not riding with that guy. End of story.
amy		You wanted to be alone. Well... you're alone. Why don't you take the time to get your head together?
red		Watch your step, ma'am.
jeff		Oh for Christ's sake...
jeff		Excuse me.
jeff		I was supposed to meet my wife here.
jeff		Dark hair, slender, about five- five. Wearing a pale blue Benetton shirt.
bartender		A pale blue what?
jeff		Benetton shirt.
bartender		Hank!  Your order's ready.  I been busy. They come and go.
jeff		It would've been within the last half hour. She might've been with a trucker?
bartender		A trucker.
jeff		Guy with a baseball cap.   Driving an eighteen wheeler.
bartender		Don't ring a bell.
jeff		You sure?
bartender		Hey! Man here's looking for his wife, dark hair, button-on shirt, travelin' with a guy in a baseball cap. Anybody see 'em?
flo		Looks like she got away from ya, cowboy.
jeff		Could she have left a message with another one of your employees?
bartender		Don't see how. I'm the only one who works here.
jeff		I don't understand. Is there another Belle's Diner?
bartender		 No siree. Definitely not.
jeff		 Shit.
jeff		Excuse me, how far is the next town?
bartender		About twenty miles.
jeff		Look, if my wife comes in -- her name is Amy -- tell her I was here. Tell her to stay put till I get back, not to move. Would you do that, please?
bartender		 Okay.
peterbilt		 The 18-wheeler that picked up Amy.    Cruising leisurely.  Jeff presses the accelerator...
jeff		C'mon, you fat-ass.    Pull over.
jeff		Pull over!    Pull over!
highway		 Jeff swerves onto the far shoulder as the RV whooshes past in the opposite direction, HORN BLARING.
cherokee		 Jeff is rattled, catching his breath.      He swings back onto the road.
red		Jesus, pal, what the hell you doing?
jeff		I was signaling you to stop. Didn't you see me?
red		No.
jeff		Where's my wife?
red		Huh?
jeff		My wife.     Where is she?
red		How should I know where your wife is?
jeff		I checked at the diner.      No one saw her there.
red		Mister, I don't know what you're talking about.
jeff		You gave her a ride. You were supposed to drop her at Belle's diner.
red		Nope.   Sorry.
jeff		How can you not remember? It was just half an hour ago, for chrissakes!
red		Mister, I never seen you before in my life.
jeff		 What the hell are you doing -- ?
jeff		Amy?    Amy?!   You in there?
red		Look, mister, I don't know what you want, but --
jeff		I want my fucking wife, is what I want! What have you done to her?!
jeff		Officer, I need your help!
sheriff boyd		What's your problem?
jeff		I don't know, this guy has my wife!
sheriff boyd		Calm down, sir. Tell me what's going on.
jeff		I don't know what the hell's going on. Last time I saw her she was with this guy in his truck. Now he's saying he's never seen her!
red		Officer, he's crazy -- I don't know what he's talking about.
jeff		Don't lie, you son of a bitch!
sheriff boyd		All right -- everybody just calm down.  Sir, you want to tell me what happened?
jeff		Our car broke down. This guy stopped to help us, said he'd drive my wife to a pay phone.    But she never showed up.
sheriff boyd		 Sir?
red		I don't know, officer. I'm driving along, suddenly this fella runs me off the road and starts hollering about his wife. I swear, I never seen the guy before.
sheriff boyd		And you didn't give his wife a ride?
red		No, sir.
jeff		He's lying!
sheriff boyd		Sir, all right with you if I search your truck?
red		Hell yes, officer. Go right ahead. Name's Red, by the way. Red Barr.  My permits are all current. You can check 'em out.
sheriff boyd		That won't be necessary yet. Just stand back behind the line. Both of you.
sheriff boyd		 All right, let's see your license and registration.
sheriff boyd		What are you hauling today, Mr. Barr?
red		Nothing, empty load. I'm heading to Fresno for a pick up -- ball bearings or something.
sheriff boyd		 Long way to go empty.
red		Tell me about it. Too much competition nowadays. One horse guys like me gotta drive halfway 'cross the country just to get a payin' job.
jeff		 Are we gonna keep looking or what?
sheriff boyd		Yes, we are.  Sir, I'm gonna have to see everything.
red		No problem.   I understand.
sheriff boyd		 Those yours?
red		Yeah. Personal stuff. Clothes and whatnot. You want to take a look?
sheriff boyd		No. I think we're pretty much done here. You're free to go.
jeff		 Whoa, whoa -- wait a sec. That's it? You're not going to question him anymore?
sheriff boyd		Sir, I searched the truck. There's no evidence of suspicious activity, no sign of struggle.
red		Look, I don't mean to butt in, but maybe you got my truck confused with someone else's.
jeff		 Go to hell, you sonofabitch --
sheriff boyd		Hey! Hey! You want to get arrested? Now the man has a point. This is a plain-looking, John Doe truck. Maybe you did get them mixed up.
sheriff boyd		Hey!
sheriff boyd		Mr. Taylor, either you come down from there or I'm going to have to arrest you.
jeff		It was him.    It was this truck.
sheriff boyd		Uh-huh, I can see that. Did you get a license plate?
jeff		No.
sheriff boyd		What about the information on the door panel. You recall any of that?
jeff		I wasn't paying attention.
sheriff boyd		Mr. Taylor, did you by any chance have a beef with your wife today?
jeff		What does that have to do with anything?
sheriff boyd		Well, for starters, maybe she left you.
jeff		I don't believe this...
sheriff boyd		I've seen it a hundred times. Lovers, married couples, gay guys. You put two people in a car long enough, they'll go at it. Hell, I've even seen men dump their women on the side of the road, and vice versa.
jeff		My wife did not leave me.
red		 Officer, I'm sorry, I'd like to stay and help, but I really got to make it to Fresno...
sheriff boyd		I understand. Go ahead, sir.         I appreciate your cooperation.
jeff		This is insane. You're just going to let him go?
sheriff boyd		I've got his information. If we need to find him later, we'll know where to look.
red		Much obliged.  Good luck findin' your wife, mister. No hard feelings.
sheriff boyd		Sir, I believe you that your wife is missing. Maybe you got confused about what truck she got into, maybe you had a fight -- you don't have to tell me. The point is I'm trying to help.
sheriff boyd		The town of Brackett's 31 miles that way. My deputy's name is Len Carver. He's a good man. He'll help you fill out the necessary forms if you want to report your wife missing.
sheriff boyd		If you want my opinion, your wife is probably around here. Lost or plenty pissed off and giving you a scare. Either way, she'll turn up.
sheriff boyd		 10-4, dispatch. Tell her I'm on my way.
jeff		I want your name and badge number.
sheriff boyd		Sheriff Arthur Boyd. 226-93. This really isn't necessary --
jeff		Don't tell me what's necessary, goddamnit. I'm noting the exact time of this conversation. 10:52 A.M.
sheriff boyd		 Suit yourself, Mr. Taylor.
deputy carver		Is this a recent picture?
jeff		Two months old.
deputy carver		She still wear her hair like that?
jeff		Yes.
deputy carver		We'll certainly do our best, Mr. Taylor. There's over a hundred thousand people go missing in this country every year. Runaways, deadbeat dads, dropouts, folks hiding from the I.R.S. -- all vanishing without a trace.
deputy carver		Now I'm not saying she's one of them. I sure hope not. But unless there's a ransom demand or evidence of forced abduction, believe me, the F.B.I. won't even look at your case till it's been 24 hours.
deputy carver		Nevertheless, we'll sure keep our eyes peeled. How's that sound?
jeff		Did she come in?
bartender		 Didn't see her.
jeff		You didn't see her, or she didn't come in?
bartender		Buddy, I told you the last time. I'm busy. Maybe she came in, maybe she didn't. All I know is, I didn't see her.
barfly		 None of my business, mister. But if I was you I'd take a look in the ladies room.
jeff		Amy?
flo		Hey -- what the hell you doing?!
jeff		I want to see your order slips.
bartender		What?
jeff		You write down the names.   I want to see them.
bartender		What are you, nuts? I don't have to show you jack shit.
jeff		If my wife came in here, then her name's in that pile.
bartender		You calling me a liar?
bartender		Mister, I've had just about enough of you.
jeff		Let me see the fucking slips.
bartender		Now, mister, you're going to have to leave.
jeff		Please, I need the phone -- I have to call the police!
sluggish man		 My name's Billy. You the feller lookin' for his wife?
jeff		How'd you know? Did you see her?
jeff		Please, if you know something, anything, tell me.
jeff		What?    When?
billy		Oh man. Never shoulda opened my damn mouth. Now I'm gonna git it.
jeff		No one's going to hurt you, Billy. Just tell me what you saw.
billy		She came in on a truck.   A big white one.
jeff		Yes...
billy		Then she... she got in another truck.
jeff		Another truck? With who?
billy		Dunno. Some men. Bad men. They say I'm a dummy, but I ain't. I see things.
jeff		Do you know where they went?
billy		Uh-huh.    Route seven.   Up by the river.
jeff		Where by the river?
billy		Dunno. They don't tell me that kind of stuff.
jeff		Who doesn't? The bartender?      The men in the truck?
billy		I ain't talking to you no more.
jeff		Billy, I need you to come to the police. If you tell them what you saw, they'll be able to help me.
billy		Man, you're the dummy.
billy		Don't you git it? The police is the ones in on it!
jeff		C'mon... work, goddammit...
jeff		Fuck.
jeff		 Yes.
jeff		Hello, Steve? It's Jeff Taylor... Listen, I -- don't put me on hold! I need a favor... I've gotta talk to that friend of yours at the F.B.I... No, it's about Amy, she's missing --
jeff		I said Amy's been --
jeff		Fuck!
jeff		Yes, I'm still here.       No -- don't call back -- Steve?!       Steve?!
jeff		Goddammit!
chainlink fence		 covered with high-visibility markers stretched across the road. The sign: "ROAD CLOSED."
jeff		Shit!
earl		 Out of the car! Put your hands where I can see 'em!
earl		I said get out, dammit!   Now!
cherokee		 peels out in reverse, snaking wildly side to side, aiming for the chainlink fence.  It BURSTS the FENCE!   Poles and chain mesh go flying!
jeff		 GUNS the ENGINE. The Cherokee bounces wildly on the rutted, storm-damaged road. He yanks the four-wheel- drive lever.
dirt road		 The huge pickup streaks after the Cherokee, its 7.5-LITER V10 ROARING, oversized tires devouring the terrain.
jeff		 GUNS the ENGINE on the washboard road surface, the vibration nearly shaking the suspension apart while --
ram		 keeps pace in the dust from its wake. Inside the cab, Earl can be seen speaking on a CB transmitter.
jeff		 throws the Cherokee into a sharp turn in the road. As the car rounds the bend, he looks up, reacting, as --
idled bulldozer		 blocks the road at a construction site. More unattended earthmoving equipment fills the road beyond.
jeff		 brakes wildly. To his right, a cliff goes straight up; on the left, a guardrail protects a steep ravine.  He cuts the wheel left, CRASHES through the GUARDRAIL and plunges into the ravine!
cherokee		 lands on the passenger side with a SPLASH and comes to rest half-submerged in the RUSHING WATER.
earl		Sonofabitch...
inside cherokee		 The world is sideways. Water rushes into the car. Jeff is strapped into the driver's seat by the seatbelt. The AIRBAG DEFLATES with a HISS.  Jeff grimaces in pain. He looks around, blinking.   The river is flowing right through the Cherokee!  Luggage, styrofoam hamburger clamshells and empty Coke cans bob on the surface of the water.  Jeff fumbles with the seatbelt release. The belt comes free and he drops suddenly into the water on the passenger side.  He gets to his feet, reaches overhead to unlatch the driver's side door and pushes it open.  He hoists himself through the door.
earl		Fuck!
underwater		 Jeff breaststrokes for all he's worth. Sand swirls in the swift current. He pushes away from a boulder in his path.  He swims until his lungs are bursting, then surfaces for air.
earl		Goddammit...
behind rock		 Jeff surfaces and gulps in air, staying out of sight of Earl on the bank. Then he is down again.
earl		He's getting away!
in rapids		 Jeff is carried over the rocks by the fast-moving current. He slams into a boulder, letting out a cry and swallowing a mouthful of water.  A downed tree hangs over the river. Jeff grabs desperately and takes hold of a branch. He's got it!  Hanging on to the branch, he notices a familiar object floating past in the water: the "90,000 Donuts" pack.  Jeff tries to haul himself from the river. The BRANCH bends under his weight. Then it comes free with a CRACK!  Jeff is carried downstream on the rushing water.
earl		He's in the water!   I just saw him!
below rapids		 The river has turned slow again.  Jeff fights to his feet in the shallows and staggers to the bank. He drops to his knees, retching.  Clutching his ribs, he raises his head and looks upriver. For the moment, there is no sign of Earl. But he could appear anytime.  Jeff gets to his feet, wincing. He looks up at the rocky canyon wall bordering the river. It's steep but scalable.  He begins climbing.  DISSOLVE TO:
al		... can't believe you let him get away...
earl		You try chasing... through this shit...
al		Fuck... this is what happens when you get one without the other...
earl		He coming around?
billy		Should be... I clocked him pretty good...
billy		Rise and shine, dad.
billy		C'mon, shake a leg.
jeff		 Where is she?
billy		Give us some answers and you might find out. According to her, you've got a pretty good pile of ready cash sitting in the bank. Is that true?
jeff		There's some... yeah...
billy		Uh-huh... well, 'some' doesn't cut it. Your wife gave us a dollar figure. I want the same exact from you.
jeff		 I don't -- there's different accounts... the balance fluctuates...
billy		Fluctuates, my ass. If a hotshot like you ain't tracking his bottom line, it'd be the first time in history.  What do you think, Earl?
earl		We been fucked with, is what I think. Little slut lied to us. Put 'em on the spot, they'll say anything to stay alive.
billy		Yeah, I suppose. Too bad.  Waste of time. Plug him.
jeff		 Ninety thousand.
billy		Say again.
jeff		 Ninety thousand dollars.
earl		Get out.   Don't try anything stupid.
red		You're a tough man to get a hold of, Jeffrey.
jeff		 What do you want?
red		It's not me we're talking about. Question is what you want.
red		See, I've got something you might want to buy. Can't show you the merchandise right now, but I can describe it for you. About five- five, hundred and fifteen pounds. I'd say three, maybe four of that is tits. Black curly hair upstairs and down. Interested?
jeff		You sonofabitch --
red		Bring him up here.
red		Welcome to Brackett, Jeff. If ever there was a two-bit shithole in the middle of nowhere, this is it. One gas station, a half-dozen stores and a V.F.W. hall.  See that building?
red		That's the bank. Brackett Commerce Bank. You with me?
red		Then here's the drill. You're gonna walk in there and tell the manager you want an express wire in the amount of $90,000 from your account in Boston. Got your wallet?
red		You ask for the money in cash. Small bills. 
jeff		How do I know she's still alive?
billy		Shut up.
red		She's tucked away someplace safe. You get her back as soon as we get the money. Simple as that.
red		Now a smart guy like you, you're already thinking about calling the cops, right?
red		 Iron Man to Blacktop, let's open the gate.
red		Like I said, Jeff, if you want to call the cops, there's nothing I can do. Hell, with the fire you've got in your eyes right now, I figure you're fixing on calling the F.B.I., C.I.A. -- even the 82nd Airborne.
red		Problem is, you can see this town for miles around. So ask yourself: How's the law gonna get here? They gonna fly in? Drive in? Either way, we'll see 'em. So let me be very clear: if we see one unmarked car, one plane, one human being who even smells like a cop -- this deal is dead.
red		Now take a look at the building with the flagpole.
red		That's your deadline. If for any reason one of those cops pulls into town before I'm looking at a bag of money, your wife is dead, you're shit out of luck and we're gone for good.
red		See, that's why there's no risk to us in this thing. You do the legwork. We sit back, we watch, we listen to our scanners, we monitor you every step of the way. If at any moment we don't like something, we split. Period.  Helluva lot safer than sticking up 7-11s, wouldn't you say?
red		Put this on. You can't go into the bank like that.
red		How about it, Jeff? Time to get the show on the road?
jeff		I need to see the manager. I need a wire transfer from my bank in Boston.
calhoun		Yes... sir. I'm the manager. Would you like to have a seat?
calhoun		Sir?
jeff		 What?
calhoun		I said you can have a seat if you want.
jeff		Right.
jeff		Here's my driver's license, credit card if you need it, my account number in Boston... How long is this going to take?
calhoun		Are you all right?
jeff		 Yes, I'm fine. Look, that account only has $5,000 in it. How much can you advance me on my credit card?
calhoun		Excuse me?
jeff		 My credit card. I've got a $6,000 limit. Can you advance me the whole $6,000?
calhoun		No, I can't. For non-customers the limit is $500 a day. Sir, are you sure you're all right?
jeff		Yes, I'm fine. Just... transfer the money, okay?
jeff		Look, I'm going to tell you something. Whatever happens, just keep filling out that form, okay?
calhoun		 Sir?
jeff		There are people watching --
calhoun		Yes, I am.
cowboy		Lady over there said to see you about a car loan.
calhoun		 Certainly, sir. Would you like to have a seat?
calhoun		 You were saying, Mr. Taylor?
jeff		Just... transfer the money.
jeff		Would you tell the manager I want the money in these denominations?
jeff		I'm here.
jeff		The whole thing. Ninety thousand.
jeff		When do I see my wife?
calhoun		Marie, this is Roger Calhoun down at the bank. Is the Sheriff there?  Well, maybe it's nothing, but you might tell him we just had a fellow in here acting kind of strange...
earl		Toss the envelope on the seat.
jeff		No.   First you tell me where she is.
earl		Wrong, asshole. First you give me the money, then you find out. Unless you want me to shoot you dead right here on the highway.
earl		Now lift your shirt and jacket and turn around.
earl		Turn around, hands behind your back, and step toward the truck.
earl		Now get up in the truck, knees on the floor. Do it now!
jeff		I gave you the money.     Now let her go.
earl		'Let her go.'    Do I look like I have her?
jeff		What the hell --
earl		 Gotcha.
earl		You gotta be the dumbest motherfuck yet. You think we picked you out of the blue? New car, Massachusetts plates -- probably be days before anyone misses you. Hell, you shoulda got the bumper sticker that goes with it: 'Rich Assholes Looking for Trouble!'
earl		I'd have loved to see the look on your face when that car seized up.  Help, help, I ain't got no power!
earl		You know what I'm gonna do first with your money, boy? Well, do you?
earl		 I'll give you a hint. Only one thing smells better than money. You wanta guess what?
earl		What the hell?
earl		These are... it's nothing but singles...  You lyin' sonofabitch!
earl		Aaagghh!
jeff		Where is she, goddammit?   What'd you do with her?
jeff		Where is she?!
earl		 Fuck you!
jeff		You like that?     How about this?
jeff		Four wheel anti-lock brakes, you sonofabitch! You want to try 'em again?
jeff		How about an emergency stop? You want to try that, Earl? Where is she?
earl		I don't know!
jeff		Fuck you, you don't!
earl		Stop!
jeff		Is that what you want? You really want me to stop? 'Cause I bet this baby stops on a dime!
sheriff boyd		What the hell?
jeff		End of the line, Earl! How about it? You gonna tell me?
earl		She's with Billy.
jeff		Yeah?     Where's that?
earl		I don't know!    Driving around!
sheriff boyd		 Repeat, I am in pursuit of a Dodge Ram pickup. Request back-up, repeat, request back-up!
sheriff boyd		Jesus Christ --  Dispatch! Suspect identified as one Jeffrey Taylor, repeat, Jeffrey Taylor!
jeff		Where were you taking the money?
earl		 To the truck stop...
jeff		Where?
earl		Main highway... Texaco...
jeff		I know where she is!   My wife!
sheriff boyd		 Drop the gun!
jeff		You don't understand!      She's been kidnapped!
sheriff boyd		I understand plenty. Now get down on the ground or I'll shoot!
sheriff boyd		You there -- in the pickup! You all right? Can you get out?
earl		Yeah! Just don't shoot me, officer! He's crazy, I tell you!
sheriff boyd		Well, get out dammit!
jeff		Officer, please. You gotta listen to me --
sheriff boyd		 C'mon out, sir. It's safe --
sheriff boyd		 Shots fired... Officer down... Suspect...
red		 I don't know, dammit, he was supposed to be here a half hour ago. There's reports on the police band about a cop down and this place is crawling with uniforms...
red		Look, I'm getting out of here. Stay off the airwaves. Bring the girl and meet me at the barn... You got that?
cop		 thanks the couple, calls out something to his fellow officers.
jeff		 runs alongside the farm truck, using it as a shield. He overtakes the truck, cuts across its path. The farmer BLARES his HORN.  Jeff glances left. Red's tractor trailer is traveling across the crowded parking area, slowly gaining speed. Jeff sprints in front of a moving car.  The driver jerks to a halt and HONKS, catching the attention of a nearby cop. Jeff quickly turns away, avoiding being seen.  Red's 18-wheeler turns toward the access road. Jeff looks around, panicked. More cops are spreading out on foot. They'll notice him any second.    80.  CONTINUED:  Jeff crouches low and scurries underneath a slow-moving postal truck. The truck speeds up, nearly crushing him under the rear wheel assembly.  Jeff rolls out of the path of the giant wheels, gets to his feet on the other side and finds himself...  ... in the path of another huge truck!  A cop is standing only 20 feet away! Jeff goes underneath another trailer, crawling between the moving wheels. He springs to his feet.  Red's Peterbilt is pulling away!  Jeff runs for all he's worth. His arms and legs pump furiously. He runs abreast of the truck...  ... and seizes the spare tire mount!
jeff		 Hello? Can you hear me? This is Jeff Taylor. I need to talk to the deputy.
jeff		The name is Jeffrey Taylor. I just witnessed your sheriff being shot. Now put someone on, goddammit!
jeff		Hello?
deputy carver		It's no good. He's not talking. You better mobilize your boys.
deke		Daddy, you're home!
red		Hey, Deke, you miss me?
arleen		Deke, get back to bed! I said now!  Warren? I thought you were coming back next week.
arleen		... but it's four in the morning. Why can't Al and Billy come some other time?
red		 I told you, we've got some stuff to take care of. Won't be more than a couple of hours -- I promise.
red		Say, Deke, how 'bout opening up the barn for your daddy?
red		Deke, c'mon over here, I got something for you.
red		Guess which hand.
deke		 This one.
red		Nope.    Try again.
deke		 This hand.
red		Nope.
deke		 Dad...
red		 Okay, okay, I'll give it to you.
deke		Cool!
red		Deke?   Deke, you back there?
inside trailer		 Red shrugs, lets it go. He resumes unloading boxes, tosses down a full set of Louis Vuitton luggage. He lugs the items into the barn.
al		Man, if I never see another couple from Massachusetts it'll be too soon.
red		Tell me about it.   You get any word on Earl?
billy		 There's reports of an accident up Five Mile, but that's about it.
billy		I told you we shoulda gotten rid of 'em like that couple up in Utah. Nice and clean.
red		So it got a little fucked up -- so what? We stay out of the area for a while, things will cool off.
red		Dammit, Al, what the hell you doing?
al		Figured I'd get started on the jewelry.
red		Fuck that, you can work on it later. Help us with the girl.
red		Must've died from the exhaust.
red		I'll get some plastic. We'll bury her before it gets light out.
al		 Aagh!
al		Goddamn.   Scared me half to death.
billy		 Gotcha good, huh, Al? Oughta be more careful next time.
al		Shut up.  Lemme do her, Red. I'll cut her head off right now.
red		Shit, it's my wife. Help me get her in the freezer.  Just a second, Arleen.
amy		 squirms on the hay-strewn floor. Her clothes are ripped, face bruised. She looks up, reacting: Jeff's eye is visible in the knothole.  Their gaze meets... and holds...
red		Don't   worry, honey. It's not as bad as   it sounds. It'll take you about   10 minutes to suck the air out.    Probably won't even feel it.
barn hayloft		 Jeff watches helplessly as...
red		C'mon, let's go.
arleen		Well finally. Are you coming to breakfast? I've been calling you.
red		Sure thing, honey.
jeff		Amy?   Amy, can you hear me?
jeff		 Amy?
jeff		Hang on, baby. They're in the house; I can't use the lights. I'm gonna get you out.
jeff		Fuck!
jeff		It's not working. If I make any more noise, they'll hear.
jeff		I'm going to get you out of there, Amy.
jeff		I love you.  Please, God, let her still be alive.
jeff		 Fuck you, asshole.
hallway		 toward the voices. VIDEO GAME sound effects emanate from a room off the hall. Jeff flattens against the wall, peers into the living room.  Seated on the floor with his back   to Jeff, Deke is playing Nintendo on a wide-screen   television.  Various items are scattered about: stereo    speakers, a jukebox, a brand new Nordic Track. There is    a rifle rack across the room.  Stepping past the doorway, Jeff continues down the hall toward...
red		... So there I am, it's a howling snow storm, I've got 2000 live chickens that are supposed to be in Denver days ago, and this cop is busting my balls because I haven't got chains...
red		So what happens but   this big old rooster, damn thing   must've weighed ten pounds,   he reaches out toward that highway   patrolman...
red		... just reaches out with his beak, see, and...
jeff		Give me the key.
red		 Now hold on, mister. I don't know who you are or what you want --
jeff		Give me the fucking key!
red		 Mister --
jeff		Don't mister me, you sonofabitch! My wife is locked in a hole in your fucking barn! You don't give me the key, I'll blow your fucking head off!
arleen		 Warren? What's going on?
red		I don't know, honey.        Just stay calm --
jeff		 Ever wonder where all this stuff comes from?
jeff		You don't want to do that, kid. Just put the gun down.
red		 Don't listen to him, Deke.        Keep the gun on him.
jeff		Put the gun down.
deke		 My daddy keeps his rifle loaded all the time. He showed me in case I needed to protect Mommy when he's away.
jeff		I understand that, Deke. I'm not gonna hurt Mommy. But if you pull that trigger, there's a chance I'll still kill your father.
red		He's lying, Deke. He can't get me. Just pull the trigger.
jeff		No, Deke, don't listen to him. He's wrong.
red		Plug him, boy!     Do what I tell you!
red		That's right, boy.       Do it.   Don't worry about me.
jeff		Deke, no -- !
al		Oww -- goddammit, you little shit!
jeff		Don't fucking move!
jeff		Deke?   Deke?   Get on your feet!
jeff		It's okay, kid. Go over there, stand next to your mother. Hurry up.
jeff		Okay... on your feet.   Now, everybody!
jeff		Let's go.      Out.
red		Do like he says, Arleen.      He's crazy.
jeff		 Okay. Reach into your pocket and hand the key to your wife.
red		This ain't gonna work, boy.
jeff		 Do it.
red		It's okay, Arleen.      Take it.
jeff		 Okay, now unlock it.
jeff		Good.  Now give me the keys.  Deke, push the door open. Quickly.
jeff		That's enough, Deke.  Let's go. Move it.
jeff		Deke, I need you to open this.
jeff		It's okay, Deke. There's a freezer down there with a woman in it. I need you to let her out.
red		 The switch is on the right.
red		It's all right, son.     Just ignore that stuff.
jeff		 Deke!    You at the freezer?
jeff		Okay. You're almost done. Just open it up, let the woman out.
deke		She's all tied up with tape.
jeff		You got that Swiss Army knife your dad gave you?
jeff		Good man. Use that.   Make sure you don't hurt her.
jeff		 You better pray she's all right.
jeff		Amy!!!
jeff		Amy, come up here!
amy		They were going to kill me.
jeff		I know, baby. It's okay.       They can't hurt you now.
jeff		 Okay.    Everybody in the cellar.
jeff		Do it!
red		Remember this moment, pretty boy. 'Cause whatever happens, no matter how far you run, I will hunt you down and kill you like a dog.
jeff		Go to hell.
jeff		Let's get out of here.
jeff		Amy, no!    It's not safe --
amy		 But there's a phone inside.         We have to call the police.
jeff		One of them's still loose.      C'mon -- this way!
reveal billy		 lurking in the shadows at the corner of the barn, watching.
jeff		Hello?   Hello?     Anybody home?
jeff		 Hello? Anyone home?
jeff		C'mon, c'mon...
jeff		 Hello! This is Jeff Taylor. I'm reporting an emergency... I don't know the address, the house belongs to a Red Barr -- I mean, Warren something... No, I don't know his name!
amy		 Jeff --
jeff		No -- he kidnapped my wife, he's locked in a barn... Jeffrey Taylor. If you contact the police in --
amy		 Jeff!
jeff		Amy?!
jeff		C'mon!
yard		 Amy and Jeff run for the Ford F100 utility truck -- an aging blue-collar workhorse equipped with side-mounted toolboxes and a lumber rack bearing a ladder.
amy		Jeff, go!    Go!
highway		 The FORD PEELS OUT of the driveway and joins the road, spewing exhaust. It's an old vehicle that doesn't maneuver well.
amy		Can't this thing go any faster?!
jeff		What the fuck?!
firebird		 kicking up a cloud of dust as it pulls alongside the Ford on the right-hand shoulder.  The driver, Billy, is levelling a shotgun through the window.
jeff		Get down!
cadillac deville		 pulling even with them on Jeff's side. The drive, Al, leers as he spins the wheel and creases the Ford -- CRUNCH!
jeff		 raises the PISTOL and FIRES!
highway		 The Ford is sandwiched between the Cadillac and Firebird as they race down the highway with the Peterbilt in the rear.
amy		Jeff!
jeff		It's glass!   Use the rifle!
billy		 grins as the SHOT WHISTLES past harmlessly. He reloads the SHOTGUN, snaps it shut and RETURNS FIRE -- BLAM!
billy		Sonofabitch!
highway		 The Firebird hits a mound of earth, flies through the air and lands with a CRASH!
in peterbilt		 Red sees the crash, scowling. He presses the gas and pulls closer, taking Billy's place alongside the Ford.
amy		Look out!
on peterbilt		 a STRAY BULLET SLICES the hydraulic brake line running to the trailer. The HOSE HISSES and whips through the air!
red		Sonofabitch --
highway		 The Peterbilt descends the grade, letting out a RAPID- FIRE BLAT of BACKFIRES. It's gaining speed, bearing down on the Ford.
jeff		Hang on!
in peterbilt		 Red struggles to stay in control. Every time he applies the brakes, the unchecked trailer jars the cab forward.  The Peterbilt races into the curve.  Red has no choice. He has to pump the brakes and risk jackknifing or the truck will fly off the road altogether.  He hits the brakes!
highway		 The huge TRUCK SCREECHES on the asphalt, tires smoking, cab and trailer folding at right angles!  Then, unexpectedly, the trailer disconnects from the cab!
peterbilt		 blasts into the rear of the Ford, jarring it forward with a CRUNCH of METAL and taillights!
jeff		 slams against the wheel. Amy is thrown against the dashboard. The Ford is being propelled downhill by the Peterbilt.
highway		 The two vehicles are now locked together, gaining speed as they hurtle down the grade.
jeff		 jams the pistol through the rear pass-through window and FIRES at Red in the truck. BULLETS PING off the grille.  The GUN CLICKS empty.
in peterbilt		 Red hits the brakes, but it's no use. The bumpers are meshed. The two vehicles plunge downhill, skidding sideways.  Up ahead, a concrete bridge spans a deep gorge.
jeff		You all right?
jeff		Yeah?
jeff		What is it?
amy		 It's just... I can't get out...
jeff		What do you mean?
amy		I mean I can't get out!
jeff		C'mon, Amy, push!
jeff		Push, goddammit!
peterbilt		 creeps toward the Ford. The truck's grille is smashed. One wheel RIM SCRAPES the asphalt. It gains speed.
amy		 Jeff!
in ford		 Jeff and Amy are thrown forward by the impact. The Peterbilt's ENGINE ROARS. It's pushing them over the edge!
in peterbilt		 Red's eyes burn as he presses the accelerator and forces the pickup farther through the broken railing.
ford		 lurches through the widening gap in the railing. Concrete sails into the canyon. The front tires hang over the void.
amy		 Jeff?
on bridge		 Jeff runs to the Peterbilt and jumps on the driver's side running board, grasping the door handle.  Red heaves the door open suddenly. It strikes Jeff's head with a crack! He falls backward to the ground.
red		You think you can come into my life and fuck with me? Nobody fucks with me!
on bridge		 The truck is no longer hitting the Ford squarely. Instead, the Peterbilt's right front tire is riding up and over the cargo bed, crushing the left side of the Ford under its massive weight.
in peterbilt		 Red has both hands around Jeff's windpipe.    He glances up for a second, reacts, but it's too late.
on bridge		 The Peterbilt is surging up the driver's side of the Ford, using the pickup like a ramp!
in ford		 Amy screams as the left side of the cab is flattened under the Peterbilt's weight!
on bridge		 For an instant, the Peterbilt's front tires seem to hang in the air... then the truck is falling!
red		You think you can fuck with me?!
on bridge		 The iron REBAR GROANS. It's beginning to give way under the weight of the truck. The truck slips slightly.
on peterbilt		 Jeff clings to the handle. He reaches for the passenger side door handle, working his way up toward the bridge.
rebar		 gives away once more and --
jeff		 scales the cab, finding more handholds.   He climbs past the passenger door.  Behind him, Red is working his way higher in the same manner. He grabs Jeff's foot, trying to pull him off the cab.  Jeff kicks free and climbs past the sleeping compartment. Red grabs the door handle. Jeff boots the door release button.  The passenger door flies open!  Red falls away as the door opens. He's clinging to the open passenger door, suspended over the gorge.
amy		Oh God... Jeff...
jeff		C'mon, Amy, it's all you now... you can do it...
peterbilt		 comes free from the rebar!
amy		 takes hold of Jeff's hand.
peterbilt		 plummets into the canyon!
red		 screams!
peterbilt		 seems to fall forever... before landing with a huge EXPLOSION!
amy		Don't let me go, Jeff...
jeff		I won't, baby... I won't ever let you go...
jeff		How's the sheriff?
fbi agent		Out of surgery. It looks like he's gonna make it. As for the wife and kid, she's not talking, he's being turned over to Protective Services.
fbi agent		We've got I.D. on the dead suspects. Turns out they were all licensed truckers. One of 'em had a rap for check kiting. Otherwise they could've been model citizens.
jeff		What about the leader?
fbi agent		Same thing. His real name's Warren Claney. Three speeding tickets in five years -- apart from that, he's clean as a whistle.
amy		 How could they do it? How could they treat it like a... business?
fbi		 C'mon -- let's get you folks out of here before things really get hairy.
amy		Promise me one thing...
jeff		Name it.
amy		Next time... we fly.
****Dialogues from script :Breakfast_Club.txt****

claire		I can't believe you can't get me out of this...I mean it's so absurd I have to be here on a Saturday! It's not like I'm a defective or anything...
claire's father		I'll make it up to you...Honey, ditching class to go shopping doesn't make you a defective.  Have a good day.
brian's mother		Is this the first time or the last time we do this?
brian		 Last...
brian's mother		Well get in there and use the time to your advantage...
brian		Mom, we're not supposed to study; we just have to sit there and do nothing.
brian's mother		Well mister you figure out a way to study.
brian's mother		Well go!
andrew's father		Hey, I screwed around...guys screw around, there's nothing wrong with that.  Except you got caught, Sport.
andrew		Yeah, Mom already reemed me, alright?
andrew's father		 You wanna miss a match?  You wanna blow your ride?  Now no school's gonna give a scholarship to a discipline case.
vernon		Well...well.  Here we are!  I want to congradulate you for being on time...
claire		Excuse me, sir?  I think there's been a mistake.  I know it's detention, but...um...I don't think I belong in here...
vernon		It is now seven-oh-six.  You have exactly eight hours and fifty-four minutes to think about why you're here.  To ponder the error of your ways...
vernon		...and you may not talk.  You will not move from these seats.
vernon		...and you...
vernon		...will not sleep.  Alright people, we're gonna try something a little different today.  We are going to write an essay--of no less than a thousand words--describing to me who you think you are.
bender		Is this a test?
vernon		And when I say essay...I mean essay. I do not mean a single word repeated a thousand times.  Is that clear Mr. Bender?
bender		Crystal...
vernon		Good.  Maybe you'll learn a little something about yourself.  Maybe you'll even--decide whether or not you care to return.
brian		You know, I can answer that right now sir...That'd be "No", no for me. 'cause...
vernon		Sit down Johnson...
brian		Thank you sir...
vernon		My office...
vernon		...is right across that hall.  Any monkey business is ill-advised...
vernon		...any questions?
bender		Yeah...I got a question.
bender		Does Barry Manilow know you raid his wardrobe?
vernon		I'll give you the answer to that question, Mr. Bender, next Saturday. Don't mess with the bull young man, you'll get the horns.
bender		That man...is a brownie hound...
bender		You keep eating your hand and you're not gonna be hungry for lunch...
bender		I've seen you before, you know...
brian		 Who do I think I am?  Who are you? Who are you?
brian		I am a walrus...
brian		It's the shits, huh?
claire		 I can't believe this is really happening to me...
bender		Oh, shit!  What're we s'posed to do if we hafta take a piss?
claire		 Please...
bender		If you gotta go...
bender		You gotta go!
claire		 Oh my God!
andrew		Hey, yer not urinating in here man!
bender		Don't talk!  Don't talk!  It makes it crawl back up!
andrew		You whip it out and you're dead before the first drop hits the floor!
bender		You're pretty sexy when you get angry...grrr!
bender		Hey, homeboy...
bender		...why don't you go close that door. We'll get the prom queen-- impregnated!
andrew		Hey!
andrew		Hey! BENDER What?
andrew		If I lose my temper, you're totalled man!
bender		Totally?
andrew		Totally!
claire		 Why don't you just shut up!  Nobody here is interested!
andrew		Really!  Buttface!
bender		Well hey Sporto!  What'd you do to get in here?  Forget to wash your jock?
brian		 Uh, excuse me, fellas?  I think we should just write our papers...
andrew		 Look, just because you live in here doesn't give you the right to be a pain in the ass...so knock it off!
bender		It's a free country...
claire		 He's just doing it to get a rise out of you!  Just ignore him...
bender		 Sweets...you couldn't ignore me if you tried!
bender		So...so!  Come on Sporto, level with me.  Do you slip her the hot...beef... injection?
claire		 Go to hell!
andrew		 Enough!
vernon		 Smug little pricks! CUT TO:
andrew		 Scumbag!
bender		What do you say we close that door. We can't have any kind of party with Vernon checking us out every few seconds.
brian		Well, you know the door's s'posed to stay open...
bender		So what?
andrew		So why don't you just shut up! There's four other people in here you know...
bender		God, you can count.  See!  I knew you had to be smart to be a...a wrestler.
andrew		Who the hell are you to judge anybody anyway?
claire		Really...
andrew		You know, Bender...you don't even count.  I mean if you disappeared forever it wouldn't make any difference.  You may as well not even exist at this school.
bender		Well...I'll just run right out and join the wrestling team.
bender		 Maybe the prep club too!  Student council...
andrew		No, they wouldn't take you.
bender		I'm hurt.
claire		You know why guys like you knock everything...
bender		 Oh, this should be stunning...
claire		It's 'cause you're afraid.
bender		 Oh, God!  You ritchies are so smart, that's exactly why I'm not heavy in activities!
claire		You're a big coward!
brian		 I'm in the math club...
claire		See you're afraid that they won't take you.  You don't belong so you just have to dump all over it...
bender		Well...it wouldn't have anything to do with you activities people being assholes...now would it?
claire		Well you wouldn't know...You don't even know any of us.
bender		Well, I don't know any lepers either, but I'm not gonna run out and join one of their fucking clubs.
andrew		Hey let's watch the mouth, huh?
brian		I'm in the physics club too...
bender		 What are you babbling about?
brian		Well, what I said was...I'm in the math club, the Latin club and the physics club...physics club.
bender		Hey...Cherry...do you belong to the physics club?
claire		That's an academic club...
bender		So?
claire		So...academic clubs aren't the same as other kinds of clubs.
bender		Oh, but to dorks like him...
bender		...they are.  What do you guys do in your club?
brian		In physics, um, we ah, we talk about physics...about properties of physics.
bender		So it's sorta social...demented and sad, but social.  Right?
brian		Yeah, well, I guess you could consider it a social situation.  I mean there are other children in my club and uh, at the end of the year we have, um, you know, a big banquet, at the, uh, at the Hilton.
bender		You load up, you party...
brian		Well, no, we get dressed up...I mean, but, we don't...we don't get high.
claire		 Only burners like you get high...
brian		And, uh, I didn't have any shoes. So I had to borrow my dad's.  It was kinda weird 'cause my mom doesn't like me to wear other people's shoes.  And, uh, my cousin Kent...my cousin Kendall from, uh, Indiana... He got high once and you know, he started eating like really weird foods.  And uh, and then he just felt like he didn't belong anywhere. You know, kinda like, you know "Twilight Zone" kinda.
claire		 Sounds like you...
andrew		Look, you guys keep up your talking and Vernon's gonna come right in here...I got a meet this Saturday and I'm not gonna miss it on account of you boneheads...
bender		 Oh and wouldn't that be a bite...
bender		Missing a whole wrestling meet!
andrew		Well you wouldn't know anything about it, faggot!  You never competed in your whole life!
bender		 Oh, I know...I feel all empty inside because of it.  I have such a deep admiration for guys that roll around on the floor with other guys!
andrew		Ahhh...you'd never miss it.  You don't have any goals.
bender		Oh, but I do!
andrew		Yeah?
bender		I wanna be just--like--you!  I figure all I need's a labotamy and some tights!
brian		You wear tights?
andrew		 No I don't wear tights, I wear the required uniform...
brian		Tights...
andrew		 Shut up!
brian		You know there's not s'posed to be any monkey business!
bender		 Young man...have you finished your paper?
claire		What are you gonna do?
andrew		Drop dead, I hope! CUT TO:
brian		Bender, that's, that's school property there...you know, it doesn't belong to us.  It's something not to be toyed with.
andrew		That's very funny, come on, fix it!
brian		You should really fix that!
bender		Am I a genius?
andrew		No, you're an asshole!
bender		What a funny guy!
andrew		Fix the door Bender!
bender		Everyone just shhh! CUT TO:
vernon		Why is that door closed?
vernon		Why is that door closed?
bender		How're we s'posed to know?  We're not s'posed to move, right?
vernon		Why?
claire		We were just sitting here, like we were s'posed to...
vernon		Who closed that door?
bender		I think a screw fell out of it...
andrew		It just closed, sir...
vernon		Who?
bender		She doesn't talk, sir...
vernon		 Give me that screw...
bender		I don't have it...
vernon		You want me to yank you outta that seat and shake it out of you?
bender		I don't have it...screws fall out all of the time, the world's an imperfect place...
vernon		Give it to me, Bender...
claire		Excuse me, sir, why would anybody want to steal a screw?
vernon		 Watch it, young lady...
bender		The door's way too heavy, sir.
vernon		 Andrew Clark...get up here.  Come on, front and center, let's go.
bender		Hey, how come Andrew gets to get up? If he gets up, we'll all get up, it'll be anarchy!
vernon		Okay, now, watch the magazines!
bender		It's out of my hands...
bender		That's very clever sir, but what if there's a fire?  I think violating fire codes and endangering the lives of children would be unwise at this juncture in your career, sir.
vernon		Alright, what are you doing with this?  Get this outta here for God's sake!  What's the matter with you? Come on!
brian		You know the school comes equipped with fire exits at either end of the library.
bender		 Show Dick some respect!
vernon		 Let's go...go!  Get back into your seat.
vernon		 You're not fooling anybody, Bender! The next screw that falls out is gonna be you!
bender		 Eat my shorts...
vernon		What was that?
bender		 Eat my shorts!
vernon		You just bought yourself another Saturday, mister!
bender		Oh, Christ...
vernon		You just bought one more right there!
bender		Well, I'm free the Saturday after that...beyond that, I'm gonna have to check my calendar!
vernon		Good!  'Cause it's gonna be filled, we'll keep goin'!  You want another one?  Say the word, just say the word!  Instead of going to prison, you'll come here!  Are you through.
bender		No!
vernon		I'm doing society a favor!
bender		So?
vernon		That's another one, right now!  I've got you for the rest of your natural born life if you don't watch your step!  You want another one?
bender		Yes!
vernon		You got it!  You got another one, right there!  That's another one pal!
claire		 Cut it out!
vernon		You through?
bender		Not even close, bud!
vernon		Good!  You got one more, right there!
bender		Do you really think I give a shit?
vernon		Another...
vernon		You through?
bender		How many is that?
brian		That's seven including the one when we first came in and you asked Mr. Vernon here whether Barry Manilow knew that he raided his closet.
vernon		 You stay out of it!
brian		Excuse me, sir, it's seven!
vernon		Shut up, Peewee!  You're mine Bender...for two months I gotcha!  I gotcha!
bender		What can I say?  I'm thrilled!
vernon		Oh, I'm sure that's exactly what you want these people to believe.  You know something, Bender?  You ought to spend a little more time trying to do something with yourself and a little less time trying to impress people.  You might be better off. 
bender		 Fuck you!
vernon		Wake up!  Who has to go to the lavatory?
andrew		That's real intelligent.
bender		You're right...it's wrong to destroy literature...
bender		It's such fun to read...and, Molet really pumps my nads!
claire		 Mol-yare.
brian		I love his work.
bender		Big deal...nothing to do when you're locked in a vacancy..
andrew		Speak for yourself...
bender		Do you think I'd speak for you?  I don't even know your language!
andrew		Hey, you grounded tonight?
claire		I don't know, my mom said I was but by dad told me to just blow her off.
andrew		Big party at Stubbies, parents are in Europe.  Should be pretty wild...
claire		Yeah?
andrew		Yeah, can you go?
claire		I doubt it...
andrew		How come?
claire		Well 'cause if I do what my mother tells me not to do, it's because because my father says it's okay. There's like this whole big monster deal, it's endless and it's a total drag.  It's like any minute... divorce...
bender		Who do you like better?
claire		What?
bender		You like your old man better than your mom?
claire		They're both strict.
bender		No, I mean, if you had to choose between them.
claire		I dunno, I'd probably go live with my brother.  I mean, I don't think either one of them gives a shit about me...it's like they use me just to get back at each other.
allison		 Ha!!!
claire		Shut up!
andrew		You're just feeling sorry for yourself...
claire		Yeah, well if I didn't nobody else would.
andrew		Aw...you're breaking my heart...
bender		Sporto...
andrew		What?
bender		You get along with your parents?
andrew		Well if I say yes, I'm an idiot, right?
bender		You're an idiot anyway...But if you say you get along with your parents well you're a liar too!
andrew		You know something, man...If we weren't in school right now, I'd waste you!
bender		Can you hear this?  Want me to turn it up?
brian		Hey fellas, I mean...
brian		...I don't like my parents either, I don't...I don't get along with them...their idea of parental compassion is just, you know, wacko!
bender		Dork...
brian		Yeah?
bender		You are a parent's wet dream, okay?
brian		Well that's a problem!
bender		Look, I can see you getting all bunged up for them making you wear these kinda clothes.  But face it, you're a Neo-Maxi-Zoom-Dweebie! What would you be doing if you weren't out making yourself a better citizen?
andrew		Why do you have to insult everybody?
bender		I'm being honest, asshole!  I would expect you...to know the difference!
andrew		Yeah well, he's gotta name!
bender		Yeah?
andrew		Yeah,  What's your name?
brian		Brian...
andrew		See...
bender		 My condolences...
claire		 What's your name?
bender		What's yours?
claire		Claire...
bender		Ka-Laire?
claire		Claire...it's a family name!
bender		Nooo...It's a fat girl's name!
claire		Well thank you...
bender		You're welcome...
claire		I'm not fat!
bender		Well not at present but I could see you really pushing maximum density! You see, I'm not sure if you know this...but there are two kinds of fat people.  There's fat people that were born to be fat, and then there's fat people that were once thin but they became fat...so when you look at them you can sorta see that thin person inside!  You see, you're gonna get married, you're gonna squeeze out a few puppies and then, uh...
bender		Oh...obscene finger gestures from such a pristine girl!
claire		 I'm not that pristine!
bender		Are you a virgin?  ...a white weddin?
claire		Why don't you just shut up?
bender		Have you ever kissed a boy on the mouth?  Have you ever been felt up?  Over the bra, under the blouse, shoes off...hoping to God your parents don't walk in?
claire		Do you want me to puke?
bender		Over the panties, no bra, blouse unbuttoned, Calvin's in a ball on the front seat past eleven on a school night?
andrew		Leave her alone!
andrew		I said leave her alone!
bender		You gonna make me?
andrew		Yeah...
bender		You and how many of your friends?
andrew		Just me, just you and me.  Two hits. Me hitting you, you hitting the floor!  Anytime you're ready, pal!
bender		I don't wanna get into to this with you man...
andrew		Why not?
bender		'Cause I'd kill you...It's real simple. I'd kill you and your fucking parents would sue me and it would be a big mess and I don't care enough about you to bother.
andrew		Chicken shit...
andrew		Let's end this right now.  You don't talk to her...you don't look at her and you don't even think about her! You understand me?
bender		I'm trying to help her!.
carl		Brian, how you doing?
bender		Your dad works here?
bender		Uh, Carl?
carl		What?
bender		Can I ask you a question?
carl		Sure...
bender		How does one become a janitor?
carl		You wanna be a janitor?
bender		No I just wanna know how one becomes a janitor because Andrew here, is very interested in persuing a career in the custodial arts...
carl		Oh, really?  You guys think I'm just some untouchable peasant?  Peon? Huh?  Maybe so, but following a broom around after shitheads like you for the past eight years I've learned a couple of things...I look through your letters, I look through your lockers...I listen to your conversations, you don't know that but I do...I am the eyes and ears of this institution my friends.  By the way, that clock's twenty minutes fast!
andrew		Shit! CUT TO:
vernon		Allright girls, that's thirty minutes for lunch...
andrew		Here?
vernon		Here...
andrew		Well I think the cafeteria would be a more suitable place for us to eat lunch in, sir!
vernon		Well, I don't care what you think, Andrew!
bender		Uh, Dick?  Excuse me, Rich...will milk be made available to us?
andrew		We're extremely thirsty sir...
claire		I have a very low tolerance for dehydration.
andrew		I've seen her dehydrate sir, it's pretty gross.
bender		Relax, I'll get it!
vernon		Ah, ah, ah grab some wood there, bub!
vernon		What do you think, I was born yesterday?  You think I'm gonna have you roaming these halls?
vernon		You!
vernon		And you!  Hey!  What's her name? Wake her!  Wake her up!  Come on, on your feet missy!  Let's go!  This is no rest home!
vernon		There's a soft drink machine in the teacher's lounge.  Lets go!
andrew		So, what's your poison?
andrew		What do you drink?
andrew		Okay...forget I asked...
allison		Vodka...
andrew		Vodka?  When do you drink vodka?
allison		Whenever...
andrew		A lot?
allison		Tons...
andrew		Is that why you're here today?
andrew		Why are you here?
allison		Why are you here?
andrew		Um, I'm here today...because uh, because my coach and my father don't want me to blow my ride.  See I get treated differently because uh, Coach thinks I'm a winner.  So does my old man.  I'm not a winner because I wanna be one... I'm a winner because I got strength and speed.  Kinda like a race horse. That's about how involved I am in what's happening to me.
allison		Yeah?  That's very interesting. Now why don't you tell me why you're really in here.
andrew		Forget it! CUT TO:
bender		Claire...you wanna see a picture of a guy with elephantitus of the nuts? It's pretty tasty...
claire		No thank you...
bender		How do you think he rides a bike?
bender		Oh, Claire...would you ever consider dating a guy like this?
claire		Can't you just leave me alone?
bender		I mean if he had a great personality and was a good dancer and had a cool car...Although you'd probably have to ride in the back seat 'cause his nuts would ride shotgun.
claire		You know what I wish I was doing?
bender		Op, watch what you say, Brian here is a cherry.
brian		A cherry?
claire		I wish I was on a plane to France.
brian		I'm not a cherry.
bender		 When have you ever gotten laid?
brian		I've laid, lotsa times!
bender		Name one!
brian		She lives in Canada, met her at Niagra Falls.  You wouldn't know her.
bender		Ever laid anyone around here.
brian		Oh, you and Claire, did it!
claire		What are you talking about?
brian		 Let's just drop it, we'll talk about it later!
claire		No!  Drop what, what're you talking about?
bender		Well, Brian's trying to tell me that in addition to the number of girls in the Niagra Falls area, that presently you and he are, riding the hobby horse!
claire		 Little pig!
brian		No I'm not!  I'm not!  John said I was a cherry and I said I wasn't, that's it, that's all that was said!
bender		Well then what were you motioning to Claire for?
claire		You know I don't appreciate this very much, Brian.
brian		He is lying!
bender		Oh you weren't motioning to Claire?
brian		You know he's lying, right?
bender		Were you or were you not motioning to Claire?
brian		Yeah, but it was only...was only because I didn't want her to know that I was a virgin, okay?
brian		Excuse me for being a virgin, I'm sorry...
claire		Why didn't you want me to know you were a virgin?
brian		Because it's personal business, it's my personal, private business.
bender		Well Brian, it doesn't sound like you're doing any business...
claire		I think it's okay for a guy to be a virgin...
brian		You do?
bender		What's in there?
claire		Guess, where's your lunch?
bender		You're wearing it...
claire		You're nauseating...
bender		What's that?
claire		Sushi...
bender		Sushi?
claire		Rice, uh, raw fish and seaweed.
bender		You won't accept a guys tongue in your mouth and you're gonna eat that?
claire		Can I eat?
bender		I don't know...give it a try...
andrew		What's your problem?
bender		What're we having?
brian		Uh, it's your standard, regular lunch I guess...
bender		Milk?
brian		Soup.
brian		That's apple juice...
bender		I can read!  PB & J with the crusts cut off...Well Brian, this is a very nutritous lunch, all the food groups are represented.  Did your mom marry Mr. Rogers?
brian		Uh, no, Mr. Johnson...
bender		Ahhh....
bender		Here's my impression of life at big Bri's house...  Yes Dear, isn't life swell?
andrew		Alright, what about your family?
bender		Oh, mine?
andrew		That's real easy!
bender		 You forgot ugly, lazy and disrespectful.
bender		 Fuck you!
brian		Is that for real?
bender		 You wanna come over sometime?
andrew		That's bullshit.  It's all part of your image, I don't believe a word of it.
bender		You don't believe me?
andrew		No...
bender		No?
andrew		Did I stutter?
bender		Do you believe this?  Huh?  It's about the size of a cigar...Do I stutter?  You see, this is what you get in my house when you spill paint in the garage.
bender		See I don't think that I need to sit here with you fuckin' dildos anymore!
claire		 You shouldn't have said that!
andrew		How would I know, I mean he lies about everything anyway! CUT TO:
vernon		Oh, shit! CUT TO:
vernon		Coffee...looks like they scrape it off the bottom of the Mississippi river.  Everything's polluted, everything's polluted...the coffee.
claire		 How do you know where Vernon went?
bender		I don't...
claire		Well then, how do you know when he'll be back?
bender		I don't...being bad feels pretty good, huh?
brian		 What's the point in going to Bender's locker?
andrew		Beats me...
brian		This is so stupid...Why do you think, why are we risking getting caught?
andrew		I dunno...
brian		So then what are we doing?
andrew		You ask me one more question and I'm beating the shit out of you!
brian		Sorry...
andrew		Slob!
bender		My maid's on vacation.
brian		Drugs...
andrew		Screw that Bender...put it back!
brian		Drugs...the boy had marijuana.
brian		That was marijuana!
andrew		Shut up!
brian		Do you approve of this?
bender		We'll cross through the lab, and then we'll double back.
andrew		You better be right, if Vernon cuts us off it's your fault, asshole!
brian		 What'd he say?  Where're we going?
bender		Wait!  Wait, hold it!  Hold it!  We have to go through the cafeteria!
andrew		No, the activities hall.
bender		Hey man, you don't know what you're talking about!
andrew		No you don't know what you're talking about!
andrew		Now we're through listening to you, we're going this way.
andrew		Shit!
bender		Great idea Jagoff!
andrew		Fuck you!
claire		 Fuck you!  Why didn't you listen to John?
brian		We're dead!
bender		No, just me!
brian		What do you mean?
bender		Get back to the library, keep your unit on this!
vernon		That son of a bitch!
bender		Three...two...one!
vernon		Bender!  Bender!  Bender!  What is this?  What are you doing here, what is this?
bender		Oh, hi!
vernon		Out!  That's it Bender!  Out, it's over!
bender		Don't you wanna hear my excuse?
vernon		Out!
bender		I'm thinking of trying out for a scholarship.
vernon		Gimmie the ball, Bender.
vernon		Get your stuff, let's go!  Mr. Wiseguy here has taken it upon himself to go to the gymnasium.  I'm sorry to inform you, you're going to be without his services for the rest of the day.
bender		 B-O-O H-O-O!
vernon		Everything's a big joke, huh Bender? The false alarm you pulled, Friday, false alarms are really funny, aren't they...What if your home, what if your family...  ...what if your dope was on fire?
bender		Impossible, sir...It's in Johnson's underwear...
vernon		 What's the matter, John?  You gonna cry?  Let's go...
bender		Hey keep your fuckin' hands off me! I expect better manners from you, Dick!
bender		For better hallway vision!
vernon		That's the last time, Bender.  That's the last time you ever make me look bad in front of those kids, do you hear me?  I make $31,000 dollars a year and I have a home and I'm not about to throw it away on some punk like you...But someday, man, someday. When you're outta here and you've forgotten all about this place... And they've forgotten all about you and you're wrapped up in your own pathetic life...I'm gonna be there. That's right.  And I'm gonna kick the living shit out of you, man, I'm gonna knock your dick in the dirt!
bender		Are you threatening me?
vernon		What're you gonna do about it?  You think anybody's gonna believe you? You think anybody's gonna take your word over mine?  I'm a man of respect around here.  They love me around here, I'm a swell guy...you're a lying sack of shit!  And everybody knows it.  Oh, you're a real tough guy...come on, come on...get on your feet, pal!  Let's find out how tough you are!  I wanna know right now, how tough you are!  Come on! I'll give you the first punch, let's go!  Come on, right here, just take the first shot!  Please, I'm begging you, take a shot!  Come on, just take one shot, that's all I need, just one swing...
vernon		That's what I though...you're a gutless turd!
bender		 A naked blond walks into a bar, with a poodle under one arm and a two foot salami under the other.  She lays the poodle on the table.  Bar- tender says: "I suppose you won't be needing a drink."  The naked lady says...
bender		 Oh shit!!!! CUT TO:
bender		I forgot my pencil...
vernon		What was that ruckus?
andrew		Uh, what ruckus?
vernon		I was just in my office and I heard a ruckus!
brian		Could you describe the ruckus, sir?
vernon		Watch your tongue young man, watch it!
vernon		What is that?  What, what is that, what is that noise?
andrew		What noise?
claire		Really, sir, there wasn't any noise...
claire		 That noise?  Was that the noise you were talking about?
vernon		No, it wasn't.  That was not the noise I was talking about.  Now, I may not have caught you in the act this time, but you can bet I will.
vernon		You make book on that missy!  And you!  I will not be made a fool of!
bender		It was an accident!
claire		You're an asshole!
bender		So sue me...
bender		So, Ahab...Kybo Mein Doobage...
andrew		Yo waistoid...you're not gonna blaze up in here!
andrew		Shit...
brian		Chicks, cannot hold der smoke!  That's what it is!
claire		Do you know how popular I am?  I'm so popular, everybody loves me so much, at this school...
bender		Poor baby.
vernon		 Mister, oh mister Tearney...a history of slight mental illness? Wooh, no wonder he's so fucked up!
carl		Afternoon, Dick...
vernon		Hey Carl, how you doin'?
carl		Good...
vernon		Good, what's up?
carl		Not much, what's happening, what are you doing in the basement files?
vernon		Oh, nothin' nothin' here.  I'm just doin' a little homework here...
carl		Homework, huh?
vernon		Yeah...
carl		Confidential files...hmmm?
vernon		Look, Carl...this is a highly sensitive area and I, I tell you something...certain people would be very very embarrassed.  I would really appreciate it if if if if this would be something that, that you and I could keep between us...
carl		What're you gonna do for me, man?
vernon		Well, well what would you like?
carl		Got fifty bucks?
vernon		What?
carl		Fifty bucks... CUT TO:
andrew		No no man, no; you got a middle name?
brian		Yeah, guess...
allison		Your middle name is Ralph, as in puke...
allison		...your birthday is March 12th, you're five-nine and a half you weigh a hundred and thirty pounds and your social security number is 0-4-9-3-8-0-9-1 
andrew		Wow!  Are you psychic?
allison		No...
brian		Well would you mind telling me how you know all this about me?
allison		I stole your wallet...
brian		Give it to me...
allison		No...
brian		Give it!
brian		This is great...you're a thief too! Huh?
allison		I'm not a thief!
brian		Multi-talented!
allison		What's there to steal?  Two bucks and a beaver shot!
andrew		A what?
allison		He's got a nudie picture in there! I saw it, it's perverted!
andrew		Alright, let's see it!
claire		Are all these your girlfriends?
bender		Some of them...
claire		What about the others?
bender		Well, some I consider my girlfriends and some...I just consider...
claire		Consider what?
bender		Whether or not, I wanna hang out with them...
claire		You don't believe in just one guy, one girl?
bender		Do you?
claire		Yeah...that's the way it should be.
bender		Well, not for me...
claire		Why not?
bender		How come you got so much shit in your purse?
claire		How come you got so many girlfriends?
bender		I asked you first...
claire		 I dunno...I guess I never throw anything away.
bender		Neither do I...
claire		Oh...
andrew		This is the worst fake ID I've ever seen...
andrew		Do you realize you made yourself sixty eight?
brian		Oh, I know...I know, I goofed it...
andrew		What do you need a fake ID for?
brian		 So I can vote!
allison		You wanna see what's in my bag?
andrew		Holy shit!  What is all that stuff?
brian		Do you always carry this much shit in your bag?
allison		Yeah...I always carry this much shit ...in my bag...You never know when you may have to jam...
brian		Are you gonna be like a shopping bag lady?  You know like, sit in alleyways and like talk to buildings and wear men's shoes and that kinda thing?
allison		I'll do what I have to do...
brian		Why do you have to do anything?
allison		 My home life is un...satisfying...
brian		So you're saying you'd subject yourself to the violent dangers of the Chicago streets because your homelife is unsatisfying?
allison		I don't have to run away and live in the street...I can run away and, go to the ocean, I can go to the country, I can go to the mountains. I can go to Israel, Africa, Afghanistan...
brian		Andy...you wanna get in on this? Allison here says, she wants to run away, because her home life is unsatisfying...
andrew		Well everyone's home lives are un- satisfying...If it wasn't, people would live with there parents forever...
brian		Yeah, yeah I understand.  But I think that her's goes beyond, you know, what guys like you and me... consider normal unsatisfying...
allison		Nevermind...forget it, everything's cool!
andrew		What's the deal?
allison		No!  There's no deal, Sporto. Forget it, leave me alone.
andrew		Wait a minute, now you're carrying all that crap around in your purse. Either you really wanna run away or you want people to think you wanna run away.
allison		Eat shit!
brian		The girl is an island, with herself. Okay?
andrew		Hi, you wanna talk?
allison		No!
andrew		Why not?
allison		Go away...
andrew		Where do you want me to go?
allison		GO away!
allison		You have problems...
andrew		Oh, I have problems?
allison		You do everything everybody ever tells you to do, that is a problem!
andrew		Okay, fine...but I didn't dump my purse out on the couch and invite people into my problems...Did I? So what's wrong?  What is it?  Is is bad?  Real bad?  Parents?
allison		Yeah...
andrew		What do they do to you?
allison		They ignore me...
andrew		Yeah...yeah...
vernon		What did you want to be when you were young?
carl		When I was a kid, I wanted to be John Lennon...
vernon		Carl don't be a goof!  I'm trying to make a serious point here...I've been teaching, for twenty two years, and each year...these kids get more and more arrogant.
carl		Aw bull shit, man.  Come on Vern, the kids haven't changed, you have! You took a teaching position, 'cause you thought it'd be fun, right? Thought you could have summer vacations off...and then you found out it was actually work...and that really bummed you out.
vernon		These kids turned on me...they think I'm a big fuckin' joke...
carl		Come on...listen Vern, if you were sixteen, what would you think of you, huh?
vernon		Hey...Carl, you think I give one rat's ass what these kids think of me?
carl		Yes I do...
vernon		You think about this...when you get old, these kids; when I get old, they're gonna be runnin' the country.
carl		Yeah?
vernon		Now this is the thought that wakes me up in the middle of the night... That when I get older, these kids are gonna take care of me...
carl		I wouldn't count on it!
andrew		What would I do for a million bucks? Well, I guess I'd do as little as I had to...
claire		That's boring...
andrew		Well, how'm I s'posed to answer?
claire		The idea is to like search your mind for the absolute limit.  Like, uh, would you drive to school naked?
andrew		Um, uh...would I have to get out of the car?
claire		Of course...
andrew		In the spring, or winter?
claire		It doesn't matter...spring...
andrew		In front of the school or in back of the school?
claire		Either one...
andrew		Yes...
allison		I'd do that!
allison		I'll do anything sexual, I don't need a million dollars to do it either...
claire		You're lying...
allison		I already have...I've done just about everything there is except a few things that are illegal...I'm a nymphomaniac!
claire		Lie...
brian		Are your parents aware of this?
allison		The only person I told was my shrink...
andrew		And what'd he do when you told him?
allison		He nailed me...
claire		Very nice...
allison		I don't think that from a legal standpoint what he did can be construed as rape since I paid him.
claire		He's an adult!
allison		Yeah...he's married too!
claire		Do you have any idea how completely gross that is?
allison		Well, the first few times...
claire		First few times?  You mean he did it more than once?
allison		Sure...
claire		Are you crazy?
brian		Obviously she's crazy if she's screwing her shrink...
allison		 Have you ever done it?
claire		I don't even have a psychiatrist...
allison		Have you ever done it with a normal person?
claire		Now, didn't we already cover this?
bender		You never answered the question...
claire		Look, I'm not gonna discuss my private life with total strangers.
allison		It's kind of a double-edged sword, isn't it?
claire		A what?
allison		Well, if you say you haven't... you're a prude.  If you say you have...you're a slut!  It's a trap. You want to but you can't but when you do you wish you didn't, right?
claire		Wrong...
allison		Or, are you a tease?
andrew		She's a tease...
claire		Oh why don't you just forget it...
andrew		You're a tease and you know it, all girls are teases!
bender		 She's only a tease if what she does gets you hot...
claire		I don't do anything!
allison		That's why you're a tease...
claire		Okay, lemme ask you a few questions.
allison		I've already told you everything!
claire		No!  Doesn't it bother you to sleep around without being in love.  I mean don't you want any respect?
allison		I don't screw to get respect...That's the difference between you and me...
claire		Not the only difference, I hope.
bender		Face it, you're a tease.
claire		I'm not a tease!
bender		Sure you are!  You said it yourself sex is a weapon, you use it to get respect!
claire		No, I never said that, she twisted my words around.
bender		Oh then what do you use it for?
claire		I don't use it period!
bender		Oh, are you medically frigid or is it psychological?
claire		I didn't mean it that way!  You guys are putting words into my mouth!
bender		Well if you'd just answer the question...
brian		Why don't you just answer the question?
andrew		Be honest...
bender		No big deal...
brian		Yeah, answer it!
andrew		Answer the question, Claire!
bender		Talk to us!
bender		It's easy, it's only one question!
claire		 No!  I never did it!
allison		I never did it either, I'm not a nymphomaniac...I'm a compulsive liar...
claire		You are such a bitch!  You did that on purpose just to fuck me over!
allison		I would do it though...If you love someone it's okay...
claire		I can't believe you, you're so weird.  You don't say anything all day and then when you open your mouth...you unload all these tremendous lies all over me!
andrew		You're just pissed off because she got you to admit something you didn't want to admit to...
claire		Okay, fine, but that doesn't make it any less bizarre...
andrew		What's bizarre?  I mean we're all pretty bizarre!  Some of us are just better at hiding it, that's all.
claire		 How are you bizarre?
allison		He can't think for himself...
andrew		She's right...do you guys know what, uh, what I did to get in here?  I taped Larry Lester's buns together.
brian		 That was you?
andrew		 Yeah, you know him?
brian		Yeah, I know him...
andrew		Well then you know how hairy he is, right?  Well, when they pulled the tape off, most of his hair came off and some, some skin too...
claire		Oh my God...
andrew		And the bizarre thing is, is that I did it for my old man...I tortured this poor kid, because I wanted him to think that I was cool. He's always going off about, you know, when he was in school...all the wild things he used to do.  And I got the feeling that he was disappointed that I never cut loose on anyone, right...So, I'm...I'm sitting in the locker room, and I'm taping up my knee.  And Larry's undressing a couple lockers down from me.  Yeah...he's kinda... he's kinda skinny, weak.  And I started thinking about my father, and his attitude about weakness. And the next thing I knew, I uh, I jumped on top of him and started wailing on him...And my friends, they just laughed and cheered me on. And afterwards, when I was sittin' in Vernon's office, all I could think about was Larry's father. And Larry havin' to go home and...and explain what happened to him.  And the humiliation...fucking humiliation he mustuv felt.  It mustuv been unreal...I mean,  I mean, how do you apologize for something like that?  There's no way...it's all because of me and my old man.  Oh God, I fucking hate him!  He's like this...he's like this mindless machine that I can't even relate to anymore..."Andrew, you've got to be number one!  I won't tolerate any losers in this family...Your intensity is for shit! Win.  Win!  WIN!!!"  You son of a bitch!  You know, sometimes, I wish my knee would give...and I wouldn't be able to wrestle anymore.  And he could forget all about me...
bender		I think your old man and my old man should get together and go bowling.
brian		It's like me, you know, with my grades...like, when I, when I step outside myself kinda, and when I, when I look in at myself you know?  And I see me and I don't like what I see, I really don't.
claire		What's wrong with you?  Why don't you like yourself?
brian		'Cause I'm stupid...'cause I'm failing shop.  See we had this assignment, to make this ceramic elephant, and um...and we had eight weeks to do it and we're s'posed ta, and it was like a lamp, and when you pull the trunk the light was s'posed to go on...my light didn't go on, I got a F on it.  Never got a F in my life... When I signed up, you know, for the course I mean.  I thought I was playing it real smart, you know. 'Cause I thought, I'll take shop, it'll be such an easy way to maintain my grade point average...
bender		Why'd you think it'd be easy?
brian		Have you seen some of the dopes that take shop?
bender		I take shop...you must be a fuckin' idiot!
brian		I'm a fuckin' idiot because I can't make a lamp?
bender		No, you're a genius because you can't make a lamp...
brian		What do you know about Trigonometry?
bender		I could care less about Trigonometry...
brian		Bender, did you know without Trigonometry there'd be no engineering?
bender		Without lamps, there'd be no light!
claire		Okay so neither one of you is any better than the other one...
allison		I can write with my toes!  I can also eat, brush my teeth...
claire		With your feet?
allison		...play Heart & Soul on the piano.
brian		I can make spaghetti!
claire		 What can you do?
andrew		I can...uh...tape all your buns together...
bender		I wanna see what Claire can do!
claire		I can't do anything.
bender		Now, everybody can do something...
claire		There's one thing I can do, no forget it, it's way too embarrassing.
bender		You ever seen Wild Kingdom?  I mean that guy's been doing that show for thirty years.
claire		Okay, but you have to swear to God you won't laugh...I can't believe I'm actually doing this...
andrew		All right, great!  Where'd you learn to do that?
claire		Camp, seventh grade...
bender		That was great, Claire...my image of you is totally blown...
allison		You're a shit!  Don't do that to her you swore to God you wouldn't laugh!
bender		Am I laughing?
andrew		You fucking prick!
bender		What do you care what I think, anyway?  I don't even count, right? I could disappear forever and it wouldn't make any difference...I may as well not even exist at this school, remember?  And you...don't like me anyway!
claire		You know, I have just as many feelings as you do and it hurts just as much when somebody steps all over them!
bender		God, you're so pathetic!  Don't you ever...ever!  Compare yourself to me!  Okay?  You got everything, and I got shit!  Fuckin' Rapunzel, right?  School would probably fucking shut down if you didn't show up!  "Queenie isn't here!"  I like those earrings Claire.
claire		 Shut up...
bender		Are those real diamonds, Claire?
claire		 Shut up!
bender		Or did your daddy buy those?
claire		 Shut up!
bender		I bet he bought those for you!  I bet those are a Christmas gift! Right?  You know what I got for Christmas this year?  It was a banner fuckin' year at the old Bender family!  I got a carton of cigarettes.  The old man grabbed me and said "Hey!  Smoke up Johnny!" Okay, so go home'n cry to your daddy, don't cry here, okay?
andrew		My God, are we gonna be like our parents?
claire		Not me...ever...
allison		It's unavoidable, it just happens.
claire		What happens?
allison		When you grow up, your heart dies.
bender		Who cares?
allison		I care...
brian		Um, I was just thinking, I mean.  I know it's kind of a weird time, but I was just wondering, um, what is gonna happen to us on Monday?  When we're all together again?  I mean I consider you guys my friends, I'm not wrong, am I?
andrew		No...
brian		So, so on Monday...what happens?
claire		Are we still friends, you mean? If we're friends now, that is?
brian		Yeah...
claire		Do you want the truth?
brian		Yeah, I want the truth...
claire		I don't think so...
allison		Well, do you mean all of us or just John?
claire		With all of you...
andrew		That's a real nice attitude, Claire!
claire		Oh, be honest, Andy...if Brian came walking up to you in the hall on Monday, what would you do?  I mean picture this, you're there with all the sports.  I know exactly what you'd do, you'd say hi to him and when he left you'd cut him all up so your friends wouldn't think you really liked him!
andrew		No way!
allison		'Kay, what if I came up to you?
claire		Same exact thing!
bender		 You are a bitch!
claire		Why?  'Cause I'm telling the truth, that makes me a bitch?
bender		No!  'Cause you know how shitty that is to do to someone!  And you don't got the balls to stand up to your friends and tell 'em that you're gonna like who you wanna like!
claire		Okay, what about you, you hypocrite! Why don't you take Allison to one of your heavy metal vomit parties?  Or take Brian out to the parking lot at lunch to get high?  What about Andy for that matter, what about me? What would your friends say if we were walking down the hall together. They'd laugh their asses off and you'd probably tell them you were doing it with me so they'd forgive you for being seen with me.
bender		 Don't you ever talk about my friends!  You don't know any of my friends, you don't look at any of my friends and you certainly wouldn't condescend to speak to any of my friends so you just stick to the things you know, shopping, nail polish, your father's BMW and your poor--rich--drunk mother in the Carribean!
claire		 Shut up!
bender		And as far as being concerned about what's gonna happen when you and I walk down the hallways at school, you can forget it!  'Cause it's never gonna happen!  Just bury your head in the sand...and wait for your fuckin' prom!
claire		I hate you!
bender		Yeah?  Good!
brian		Then I assume Allison and I are better people than you guys, huh? Us weirdos...  Do you, would you do that to me?
allison		I don't have any friends...
brian		Well if you did?
allison		No...I don't think the kind of friends I'd have would mind...
brian		I just wanna tell, each of you, that I wouldn't do that...I wouldn't and I will not!  'Cause I think that's real shitty...
claire		Your friends wouldn't mind because they look up to us...
brian		You're so conceited, Claire.  You're so conceited.  You're so, like, full of yourself, why are you like that?
claire		 I'm not saying that to be conceited! I hate it!  I hate having to go along with everything my friends say!
brian		Well then why do you do it?
claire		I don't know, I don't...you don't understand..you don't.  You're not friends with the same kind of people that Andy and I are friends with! You know, you just don't understand the pressure that they can put on you!
brian		I don't understand what?  You think I don't understand pressure, Claire? Well fuck you!  Fuck you!
brian		Know why I'm here today?  Do you? I'm here because Mr. Ryan found a gun in the locker...
andrew		Why'd you have a gun in your locker?
brian		I tried.  You pull the fuckin' trunk on it and the light's s'posed to go on...and it didn't go on, I mean, I...
andrew		What's the gun for Brian?
brian		Just forget it...
andrew		You brought it up, man!
brian		I can't have an F, I can't have it and I know my parents can't have it! Even if I aced the rest of the semester, I'm still only a B.  And everything's ruined for me!
claire		 Oh Brian...
brian		So I considered my options, you know?
claire		No!  Killing yourself is not an option!
brian		Well I didn't do it, did I?  No, I don't think so!
allison		It was a hand gun?
brian		No, it was a flare gun, went off in my locker.
andrew		Really?
brian		It's not funny...
brian		Yes it is...fuckin' elephant was destroyed!
allison		You wanna know what I did to get in here?  Nothing...I didn't have anything better to do.
allison		You're laughing at me...
andrew		No!
allison		Yeah you are! CUT TO:
claire		Brian?
brian		Yeah?
claire		Are you gonna write your paper?
brian		Yeah, why?
claire		Well, it's kinda a waste for all of us to write our paper, don't you think?
brian		Oh, but that's what Vernon wants us to do...
claire		True, but I think we'd all kinda say the same thing.
brian		You just don't want to write your paper...Right?
claire		True, but, you're the smartest, right?
brian		 Oh, well...
claire		We trust you...
andrew		Yeah...
brian		All right, I'll do it...
claire		Great...
claire		 Come on...
allison		Where're we going?
claire		Come on!
claire		Don't be afraid.
allison		Don't stick that in my eye!
claire		I'm not sticking it, just close... just go like that...
claire		Good...
claire		You know you really do look a lot better without all that black shit on your eyes...
allison		Hey...I like that black shit...
claire		This looks a lot better...look up.
allison		Please, why're you being so nice to me?
claire		'Cause you're letting me.
bender		You lost?
brian		Cool!
allison		 Thank you! CUT TO:
bender		Why'd you do that?
claire		'Cause I knew you wouldn't.
bender		You know how you said before, how your parents used you to get back at each other...wouldn't I be outstanding in that capacity?
claire		Were you really disgusted about what I did with my lipstick?
bender		Truth?
claire		Truth...
bender		No... CUT TO:
andrew		What happened to you?
allison		Why?  Claire did it!  What's wrong?
andrew		Nothing's wrong, it's just so different.  I can see your face.
allison		Is that good or bad?
andrew		 It's good!
carl		See ya Brian...
brian		Hey Carl...
bender		 See you next Saturday...
carl		You bet! CUT TO:
****Dialogues from script :Breaking_Away.txt****

dave		Bravo, Mike! Bravo! Bellisimot
cyril		Did you really make all that up? They pass.
another angle		The presence of the quarry is felt much stronger now. More and more blocks of cut stone appear. The guys are dwarfed by them. They have to climb over some.
mike		I sent away for this stuff from Wyoming. It'll tell you everything. Since you don't believe me maybe you'll believe it when you see it.
cyril		And we'd work on the same ranch and sleep in the bunkhouse together, eh? Cont.
moocher		That's the whole point.
cyril		I always miss the whole point.
moocher		It'd be nice to have a paying Job again, that's for sure.
dave		Niente laborare. Niente mangare.
mike		What's that mean?
dave		You don't work. You don't eat.
cyril		That's a terrible thing to say.
cyril		Are you really going to shave your legs?
dave		Certo. All the Italians do it.
mike		That's some country. The women don't shave theirs.
moocher		They're married now. Coat.
mire		You see what I saved you from, Cyril. Had I not told you about the two of them you never would have followed them out here.
mike		My brother says he saw you and Nancy. Moocher.
moocher		When?
mike		Last Friday?
moocher		Wasn't me. I'm not seeing her anymore.
another angle		They are now standing above a huge pool of water with sheer cliffs on three sides. Abandoned derricks loom in the distance. Dave is now humming softly a Neapolitan song. They begin the descent.
cyril		I kind of miss school. You know. This will be the first time nobody's going to ask us to write a theme about how we spent our summer.
mike		Remember the Tomb of the Unknown Substitute Teacher.
moocher		She believed us too.
cyril		When you're sixteen they call it sweet sixteen. When you're eighteen you get to drink, see dirty movies and vote. But what the hell do you do when you're nineteen.
mike		You leave home.
cyril		My dad says Jesus never went further than fifty miles from his home. Mike is skipping down the rocks toward the water, taking clothes off as he does. The rest follow.
mike		And look what happened to him. Mike jumps into the water. Moocher and Cyril follow. Dave looks on.
dave		Oggi fa bello,-non e vero?
mike		Sure thing, partner.
moocher		C'mon in.
dave		I read where this Italian coach said you should never swim after a race.
cyril		Who's swimming? I'm taking a leak. Moocher and Mike splash water at him and swim away.
mire		Aren't you glad we got fired from The A and P. Right now we'd be X working.
moocher		We didn't get fired. You got- fired. We quit.
mike		One for all and all for one.
moocher		There aren't many places, you know, that'll hire all four of
cyril		You know what I'd like to be?
mike		Smart.
cyril		A cartoon of some kind. Man, X that'd be great. Like when they get hit on their head with a frying pan and their head looks like a frying pan-with a handle and everything. And then they go b-r-r-r.  And their head comes back to normal. That'd be great..
mike		How come you're so stupid, Cyril.
cyril		I don't know. I think I have a dumb heredity. What's your excuse, Mike? Mike hits him hard on the arm. Cyril winces. Mike stands up. He makes sure they're all watching and dives in. The guys talk as they follow his progress.
dave		You hear from your folks, Moocher? 567 Cont.
moocher		He wanted to know if the house was sold. They could use the money.
dave		You can come and live with me when it's sold. In Italy everybody lives together. All three of them are getting concerned about Mike.
moocher		Ever since you won that Italian X bike you've been acting weird. You really think you are Italian.
cyril		I .wouldn't mind thinking I was s omebody myself. All three of them stand up.
moocher		Maybe the door is stuck. God dammit! Moocher dives in. Dave and Cyril follow. Moocher swims down to the icebox, forces the door open. They surface. As soon as they hit the surface we hear:
mike		o.s.} Yoo--hoo .
mike		It's got no back on it! He laughs triumphantly. He's ready to dive in again when he pauses and looks. High above where he stands on the other side of the quarry hole, we see several figures. The guys are swimming toward the rocks and looking at the figures too. 5667 Cont.
mike		What the hell are they doing here? X
another angle		Dave, Moocher and Cyril are standing on the rocks below Mike. Mike is still on top of the rock. High above him are the College Kids. Three guys and three girls. One of the guys is standing on the ledge above the water. Our guys are looking at the College Kid on the ledge. He seems intent on diving into the water. It's a distance of at least eighty feet. He pushes off and dives in executing a beautiful somersault into a swan dive.
cyril		I've never seen anyone dive off from there.
cyril		This hole! This quarry hole is mine!
mike		Hey, screw you, Cyril. Let's get out of here.
mike		o.s.) If they re going to come here then we'll go on.the campus.
moocher		Isn't your dad working today?
dave		 No, the doctor told him to take it easy. He's taking Sunday's off.
moocher		 Yeah, so what? Cyril laughs and then howls as he's hit.
cyril		Going to college must do'something 'to girls' tits. Just look at them. Campussies and sororititties.  - Hi, there. What's your major? The Girls look up and kind of sneer.
moocher		They sure look like they've got it made.
mike		That's because they're rich.
dave		Italians are all poor but they're happy.
mike		Maybe in Italy. Cont.
cyril		I wonder what it's like to kiss a coed. I wonder about it a lot. Ahead of Mike's car we see two Guys and two Girls playing Frisbee. They are standing on the lawns and throwing the Frisbee to each other across the street. Mike's car is moving slowly forward when an ill-thrown Frisbee lands on the street. Mike sees it and speeds up. A Girl is running to get it but Mike gets there first and runs over it. Dave gets a quick look at the Girl as she stops"suddenly to keep from getting hit. The two college Guys run out and give' Mike the finger. He sees them in the rearview mirror.
mike		Hey, those bastards are giving us the finger. He slams on the brakes.
moocher		Hey, c'mon, Mike. We're on their turf. Dave is looking back at the Girl. The two Guys are challenging Mike, motioning to him to come back. The two Girls are trying to talk them out of it. Mike-is gunning the car.
mike		They think they own the place.
moocher		They do.
cyril		Besides, you've humiliated them enough. In ancient Japan when you ran over a samurai's Frisbee he had to commit suicide. Just as he laughs Mike shifts the car in reverse. The two Guys and Girls are standing in the middle of the road. The Guys are coming forward thinking Mike's going to stop, but Mike has no intention of stopping. The Girls and the Guys split as Mike's car roars between them. Once again Dave catches a fleeting glimpse of the Girl. Having scattered them, Mike makes a U-turn and drives away in the direction he came from. Cont.
rod		Dumbass cutters. Goddamn redneck retards.
dave		Buon giornol Buon giornol
woman		Tsk. Tsk. He was as normal as pumpkin pie and'now look x at him. The Man lets out a long beer belch.
woman		His poor parents.
dave		Ah, buon giorno, Papa.
dave		Buon giorno, Mama.
dave		Yes, the victory ...she was easy. But the promoter...'fondatore' ...He says the Italian team...it will come maybe soon...and I will race with the best...ITALIANO. X Like the nightingale they sing, like the eagles they fly. Mr. Blase can't bear to watch him eat. He's starved.
dave		Fly in Italian is 'mosca.'
dave		You never got trophy, Papa?
dave		Here, Papa. I give you. You are 'Numero Uno.' King Papa. Dave hands him the trophy. Mr. Blase is stunned. He'takes it. Before he can even think to give it back Dave kisses him on both cheeks. Cont.
dave		Now I'have to go and take a shower. (starts to leave
dave		Ah, there you are Fellini... Hungry, eh? Cont.
dave		Mangiare...mangiare... Be looks at the posters of the bicycle riders. He looks in the mirror. He takes a comb and combs his hair back in the "continental" style. Then he smiles. He picks up a book: "ITALIAN PEASE BOOK" and lies down on the bed to read it.
dave		 Ciao, Papal Mr. Blase cringes. Looks up.
dave		Mama mia I
dave		Signorina... He has momentarily lost ground on her but he sticks the paper in his mouth and pours it on.
dave		Signorina...You... He's handing her the paper but then he pauses and pulls it back just as she's about to take it. He wipes the saliva off the paper on his jersey, and then gives it to her.
dave		It is yours...no? She takes the paper and smiles. Then she laughs.
katherine		You mean you've been chasing me with this? Well, that's redly something. Thank you very much. Talk about chivalry. Dave is just looking at her. She's never seen anyone look at her quite like that. She's a bit confused.
katherine		Well, thanks again.
dave		Is nothing...niente...signorina.
katherine		What're you...an exchange student or something?
katherine		And mine is Katherine Maxwell.
dave		Ah, Katherinal Cont.
katherine		Well, thanks again, again.
dave		Ciao,. Katherina. Dave'rides away. She looks after him.
nancy		I was just on my way to work... Come in. He pushes the door open with one end of the barbell and lets her in checking the street to make sure nobody saw her. She goes in. Moocher shuts the other door too.
nancy		You know what?
moocher		No, what?
nancy		I'm leaving home that's what.
moocher		Whatl Where're you going? Cont.
nancy		About five blocks south. I found a nice little house to rent. It's so cute I could scream. My folks said I could have some'of their furniture from the basement. Maybe you could give me a hand...moving.
moocher		Sure...if...If I'm not busy. You know. How's the Job?
nancy		You know what! Frank said if I keep up the good work it'll just be a matter of time before I become a head cashier. I should go now.
moocher		Maybe...eh...Maybe I'll walk you to work. I have to go that way anyway. She smiles, happy at the prospect of a nice walk together.
cyril		Are your parents asking you 'what you're going to do?
dave		I think they're getting curious. Cont.
cyril		I sure miss playing basketball. I got depressed as hell when my athlete's foot and jock itch went away. I was sure I'd get a basketball scholarship. My dad was sure I wouldn't. And when I didn't he was real understanding. He loves to do that. Be understanding when I fail. 'That's all right, Cyril, I understand.' He even bought me a guitar because he was sure I'd never learn to play it.
dave		I'm supposed to take this college entrance exam.
cyril		You going to go to college?
dave		Hell no. I'm Just curious to see if I can pass.
cyril		Maybe I'll take it too and flunk it. My dad's birthday is coming
up 0		They part. Dave rides off. Cyril looks after him.
rod		Just keep it steady. Cont.
another angle		Rod and five of his Fraternity Brothers are riding their bicycles behind the car.
rod		Keep your elbows bent. That's right. PICK IT UP KATHY! Thirty an hourl
ahl stroonzi		He puts the brakes on.
another angle		Dave is taking the front wheel off. He's peeling the tire off the rim ready to put on a spare. Katherine is driving toward him. He sees her. She sees him. As she goes past him she slows down a little but enough to.make Rod almost run into her.
rod		What the hell you doing,
dave		The Italians are coming to a race in Indianapolis. The team
cinzanoi		(lets her go
dave		Grazia, signor, molte.grazia! The stunned Mailman has no time to reply. Dave Jumps back on his bike and rides away.
suzy		You want the flowers sent to Katherine Maxwell.
dave		Yes.
suzy		What's the address?
dave		Ah...She's in a sorority...on Third Street.
suzy		There's a lot of sororities there: Pi Beta Phi, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Alpha Phi. Dave is very intimidated by all this.
dave		It said on the front of the house...it had...X triangle, triangle.
suzy		The CHI-DELT house, eh?
mike		What were.you-doing in there?
dave		Eli...I...1 sent some flowers to the CHI-DELT...my mother. Guess what! The Italians are coming.
mike		Guess what? Moocher's going.
cyril		Talk to him Dave!
dave		Where you going, Mooch?
cyril		He's getting a job! Yes, a job!
mire		'Campus' Car Wash. It's campus everything. I feel like some reservation Indian surrounded by Disneyland. I thought we were going to.stick together.
moocher		I need a job, Mike. He frees himself from Cyril and goes.
cyril		Don't go, Mooch! They only let you out on weekends and national holidays!
miff		Don't forget to write! INT. CAMPUS STREET CAR WASH - DAY 39 x A bunch of College Kids are washing cars. The OWNER, a very hefty, tall man, is talking to Moocher.
owner		You're a little late, but I guess you won't let it happen again. Here's your sponge and here's your rag and there's your place. Cont.
owner		Don't forget to punch the clock, shorty.
new angle		We see Moocher from the back. He stops suddenly when he hears the word "shorty." He turns around slowly. He looks at the Owner. He wraps the rag around his fist. And then, with a sudden explosive movement, he punches the clock with his fist, knocking it off the wall.
moocher		How's that? He tosses the sponge aside and walks out shaking the pain from his fist.
voice one		 The S.A.E.'s have their whole team back. They're all swimmers. See that guy there. That's Rod Sommers. He rode.seventy
voice two		 - We had Mark Spitz in our fraternity but he wouldn't ride. -Who's the girl with him?
rod		Suzy says this guy's sent you X flowers.
katherine		So what? You never sent me flowers.
rod		Who is he, Kathy?
katherine		Just some crazy guy I met. God, I don't know what's gotten into you.
rod		And what I want to know is has he gotten into you, Bath? She slaps him. Rod looks around to see if anyone saw that he got hit.- A SHOT of Katherine's girl friend, Suzy. She saw. She smiles at Rod. He looks away from her.
dave		Oh, Mama... Mrs. Blase is frightened.
dave		My heart, Mama. Mio cuorol
dave		I am in love, mama, Papa. (gets up and hugs his father; then walks toward
another angle		The CAMERA SWINGS UP PICKING UP the birds on the wires and Dave seems to be humming a motif created by'their pattern. The utility poles whiz by faster and faster.
another angle		Dave speeds up and gets behind the truck to use it as a windbreak.
another angle		As Dave goes past the sign, he quickly looks at his watch. He's elated. A huge grin breaks in his salt-covered face, and he reaches for his water bottle and sprays his head with it as if it were victory champagne. Ahead of him we see the Marlboro Man billboard.
mike		That's the place to be...Wyoming. Look at that ...praires and mountains and nobody around. All you need is a bedroll and a good horse.
cyril		Don't forget your toothbrush. You're still in your cavity-prone years. A Campus Police Car pulls up.
moocher		Here comes your brother. Mike puts a cigarette in his mouth as his brother, a Campus COP in his late twenties comes out.
cop		I hear you've been hot-rodding through the campus again. I was Just...
cop		I'll take the car back if you keep it up.
miss		All right, all right. The Cop is heading toward the cafe.
cop		How're you doing, guys?
cyril		We're a little disturbed by the developments in the Middle East ...but other than that... The Cop goes into the cafe, As soon as he does Mike acts tough again. Cont.
miss		Camp-pussie cop. Hey, I know what. Letts all drive to Terre Haute tomorrow. There's supposed to be a whorehouse there.
cyril		That's funny. Me too. Both of them feel a little guilty. Mike pretends he doesn't care.
mige		Ah. I never pay for it anyway.
moocher		I'm fine. I'm fine.
nancy		You're so strong. One of the drawers falls out of the chest. Nancy's X clothes scatter on the sidewalk. Moocher pauses. Nancy puts the clothes back in the drawer and then she, too, pauses as she picks up a long nightgown. She. holds it against her'body as she folds it slowly looking at Moocher and he at her, still holding the chest of drawers.
nancy		I'm thinking of getting my hair done'. She puts the nightgown in the drawer. Then she demonstrates., pushing her hair back.
nancy		I thought maybe, something like this. What do you think?
moocher		Not bad.
cutter one		Well, look who's back. He has to shout to be heard. The others look.
cutter one		Damn it you don't look like one of them Government Safety Inspectors.
cutter two		No, a Union Organizer. They all laugh and get up to greet him. All except one younger man who continues sitting and eating. The Cutters slap Mr. Blase on the back, their dusty hands leaving dusty imprints on his jacket.
cviter three		We'll start you as an apprentice again.
young cutter		Who's he? Mr. Blase looks back over his shoulder hurt by this remark.
tm machinery		Huge blocks of stone are being cut by saws...moving back and forth and back and forth in an almost hypnotic motion ...water falling down to cool the blades.
the machinery		Cranes are moving overhead. Huge blades are spinning huge columns of limestone, chisels indenting grooves.
dave		That's itt That's the song, Cyril I recognize it.
cyril		Yeah. Damn right.
dave		Only you'll have to make it louder. Real loud.
cyril		Don't you worry. I'll make this catgut meow.
cyril		Play it, Cyril!
another angle		Katherine is riding away on Dave's bike. Cyril looks on.
rod		That must be him. The bastard. He slams on the brakes.
another angle		Cyril stops strummming. He sees a bunch of guys rushing out of the car toward him.
cyril		0oops. If I were a cartoon, I'd go: HELP. And you'd see my tonsils wiggling in the back. He starts to run. Rod and his friends run after him.
katherine		I have to go in.
dave		Buono notte, Katherina.
katherine		I haven't ridden double since I was a small girl and I've never been serenaded. So, it was a lovely evening. 'Molte grazia.' She's a little embarrassed by her Italian and Dave, the pro, gestures that it wasn't so bad. She leans over. They kiss.
miss		He won't tell me who. did it.
cyril		It wax dark. All I can tell you for sure is that they all wore Brut aftershave and smelled of Lavoris. X
mike		What were you doing there by yourself. Cyril and Dave exchange looks.
cyril		Just walking.
mike		h T at kind of car did they drive?
cyril		It was this Mercedes convertible. Cont.
mis		I've seen that car. All right. They want to fight...wetll give them a fight.
cyril		Chief Mike plenty brave...but I say this: We rednecks are few. Paleface college students are many. I counsel peace. Mike grabs him.
mt		C'mon. Let's find the bastard. Cyril sees a trash can. He hooks shoots with the coke bottle. It goes right in, and breaks. He smiles. X
mike		I really thought I was a great quarterback in high school. I still think so. I can't even bring myself to light a cigarette 'cause I keep thinking I should- stay in shape. And you know what gets me. Living here and reading in the papers how some hotshot kid is the new star on the college team. Every year there'll be a new one and it's never going to be me. I'll just be Mike. Twenty-year-old Mike. Thirty-year-old Mike. Old mean old man Mike. But the college kids will never get old...out of shape...'cause new ones come every year. And they'll keep calling us 'cutters.' To them it's a dirty word but to me it'll just be something else I never got a chance to be. He falls silent and sticks a cigarette in his mouth. His genuine confession has caught everybody,. including himself, off guard. The guys look at him with sympathy and under- standing but Mike doesn't like that. He starts the car up.
dave		I...I have to go somewhere.
katherine		I've never been to Naples, but it sounds lovely.
dave		Oh, Napoli. Si, signorina. So beautiful. We live by the sea. My Papa, he has a boat...a fisherman. -_My Mama, she has ten bambini...and I am eleven. And when I left for America, they all cry big tears... tears big like figs... Ka4:herine takes out a little book from her bag. Cont.
kathbripie		Look what I bought. I figured I might as well learn a little. She's holding the exact Italian Phrase Book that Dave has. Dave gestures that the book is no good. '
dave		You never learn Italian from book. I know that book. No good. , They head toward the Union.
rod		You haven't pledged any sorority yet?
girl		No.
rod		You should. Most frat guys won't go out with dormies. I'm the exception.
girl		You're on the swimming team, eh?
rod		Yep. Breaststroke. He gives her his cool, full of hints, smile.
cyril		I guess. Mike shifts the car into first and waits for an opening to make a U-turn.
girl		Who were they?
rod		A bunch of cutters.
girl		What are cutters? X
dave		Due capuccino, por favors. x The Waiter grunts.
cyril		We can't go in there.
mie		Oh yeah! Watch this. All three of them start up the long stairway leading to the fortress-like Union.
katherine		It's kind of nice to hear of somebody who misses his parents.
dave		Ah, but they miss you, eh? At home they sit and look at your. picture: Ah, they are saying, how we miss our Katherina, our bambina... Katherine is near tears. The homelife Dave's describing is obviously not hers. Not wanting to cry she takes out a cigarette and a lighter and Dave, being a continental gentleman, takes the lighter from her. He doesn't know what to make of it. He fiddles with it and then strikes and a huge jet of flame shoots out. Dave-is frightened. He lets go of the button, but the lighter is stuck and the flame is still burning., He blows'on it. He shakes it. Katherine starts laughing. Finally, in desperation Dave pours coffee on the lighter and it goes out. Cont.
dave		You shouldn't smoke.. I go bring more coffee. He takes the cups toward the self-service cafeteria line.
rod		The only way to train for bike racing is what we do in swi g : Interval training.
dave		The Germans... . they use interval training and the Italians... they don't. The Italians... they beat the pants off Germans. Dave thinks this is funny and laughs. Rod turns around and gives him a scornful look. Dave recognizes-him. Rod doesn't recognize Dave.
cyril		I can't get it out. College rids are looking at them. It's obvious who they are. Mike is leading. the way but even he's feeling out of place.
cyril		My finger can't breathe[ As some busty Coeds go past him:
cyril		Hi, what's your major? They enter the long part of the L-shaped room.
mire		Looks like he left. The trio starts heading toward the revolving door. They pass Rod's GIRL. She's sitting alone. Cyril stops.
cyril		And what's your major?
girl		Sash. Rod shows up carring a tray of drinks. Cyril looks up. Mike sees him. It's clear he wishes he didn't. Moocher resigns himself to the inevitable. Starts wrapping a handkerchief around his fist. Cyril is cringing. Cont.
cyril		That's a nice major...Sosh.
rod		What're you cutters doing here? Did you get lost. No.
rod		Then why don't you get lost now.
cyril		Oops. I feel like that cartoon again. A bunch of Rod's cronies sitting nearby-laughs. They crowd in around the cutters. Cyril and Moocher look at Mike for guidance. Mike is on the spot. It's not that he's afraid of a fight, it's just that he's on a foreign turf.
miie		Is,..is that him, Cyril? Cyril gets the cue.-
cyril		I...I don't think so.
moocher		Let's get out of here.
rod		Smart move, shorty. This is all Moocher needs. He hits Rod right in the tray Spilling the drinks all over him. Rod falls back knocking the table down. His friends jump up to his aid. Our guys are surrounded. The only opening is the cafeteria line. Mike is hit and falls back knocking down a tail row of plates, saucers, cups. Cyril is swinging the bowling ball around himself for protection. More rows of plates fall as the ball hits-them. The College Guys, led by Rod are trying to advance but our guys are throwing plates and maybe even food at them. The College Guys are throwing back what they can. Cyril's ball flies off and hits somebody in the stomach. By now its a free-for-all.
another angle		The fight is going at full blast.
katherine		What's going on.
girl		Just some cutters making trouble., Dave'-is stung by this remark. He plows into the fight. Katherine grabs rim and tries to pull him away. She can not tell which side he is on. Through the revolving doors the Campus Police arrive'led by Mike's brother.
katherine		We go now. Katherine takes Dave by the Arm.
rod		The cutters started itt
president		Most of you will only spend four years here but to a lot of us Bloomington is our home and .1 don't like the way you are behaving in my home. These needless hostilities have happened before. They will not happen again. If you feel compelled to compete with the kids from the town then you will do it in a different arena. I am looking at a plan to open our intramural program to them. And as a starting point, in consultation with Mr. Armstrong, we have decided to expand the field of this year's Little 500 to include a team from the town. A loud protest is heard from everybody.
cyril		The funniest part is that tough-guy Mike didn't get a punch in. You should've been there.
dave		I have to go. x 567 Cont.
cyril		Are you going to see Katherine.,
dave		I...I have to go train. The Italians will be here soon. CtA.o, Cyril'. - He rides away.
nancy		I'll pay for it.
moocher		What do you mean...I've got money.
nancy		We can go Dutch.
moocher		On a-marriage licenses
nancy		You know what? What?
nancy		I'm scared.
rod		I discovered this place. It's really something. Wait 'til you see it.
mike		Christ, I thought youtd Jump at the chance.
dave		Well, I Just... He'looks at Cyril. Cyril knows why he doesn't want to be in it.
dave		Don't want to be seen with all those College Kids.
mike		That's the whole point.. They all be there we can beat those shitheads in front of everybody.
mire		We-got four. We all enter just to get in and Dave rides the whole thing and we win.
dave		Sure...it's just that...eh...I'll be working that day.
dave		Yes, I'm getting a job.
mike		By yourself.
dave		Yeah, I need the money.
mike		Oh, that's just great. You're a real pal, Dave.
moocher		567 Look, the time comes when we all... Cont.
mike		- ' , I wasn't talking to you.
moocher		I don't give a damn. You're not, a quarterback here, you know.
mike		At least I was once( Which is one helluva lot. better' than being a midget all my life. Moocher is stung by the remark. But he controls his normal reaction with difficulty.
dave		Hey, c'mon. Cyril is very upset by all this. He's starting to cry.
dave		Hey, bambini, the Cosa, eh?
mike		Just drop that Italian shit, eh? I'm so sick of that shit. A pall falls over the group. Moocher and Cyril feel bad'for Dave.. Dave's smile vanishes. He feels a little foolish himelf. Mike is almost sorry he said what he did but having said it he feels compelled to continue.
mike		Driving you to bike races. What the hell am I your private chauffeur or something. I don't ever remember- you paying.for the gas. Sure, it's fun to win. Get all the glory for yourself but when it comes time to do something for the rest of us... Shit. I think you're just afraid of those college guys. And you're not?
mike		The only thing I'm afraid of is wasting the rest of my life with you guys.
another angle		Mike is looking at Rod. Rod sees him and just stands there. His friends, Katherine included, seem to be trying to get him to leave. But he doesn't. Mike feels the eyes of his gang on him. He gestures to Rod to come in the water. Mike runs up his rock and dives in. Rod dives off his side.
another angle		The two of them are swimming toward each other.
cyril		They're going to race.
dave		What the hell's he doing. That guy... Cont.
ocher		How long is he going to keep going?
cyril		Not much longer. There won't be an water left the way he's splashing.
nancy		Haven't you had enough, Mr. Blase?
nancy		Mrs. Stohler. This is Nancy down at Nick's. I think you better come down.
nancy		Well, he started off with a single order of French fries. Then he had some onion rings. And then he ordered a double order of each. Right now he's on a cheeseburger deluxe. She's heard-enough. She rushes to Mr. Blase.
dave		Yes, Papa. I want to talk to you too.
dave		I'm going to get a job. 567 Cont.
dave		This-car-.wash place is still hiring.
dave		Tired, Papa. Cant.
dave		Yes.
dave		I have to train.
katherine		Are you all right?
dave		Si...T. just study too hard. I have big exam tomorrow.
katherine		Are you going back to Italy in the sunmter ?
dave		Si,..My papa needs help.
katherine		Well, I called up my parents. I'm getting a graduation present. We can go to Italy together. Dave suddenly seems to wake up.
dave		Papa...can I have this Saturday off?
dave		Just this once. You see the Italians are coming Saturday. Cont.
dave		But I've waited so long.
szd		You gave me your word.
kid		There was no paper. You gave me your word.
dave		You did, Papa. You gave him your word. I heard you. We are poor, but we're honest. Mr. Blase is stunned.
kid		All I want is a refund.
doctor		Well, it's not a stroke, and he won't croak, as we say. Cont.
dave		I ruined everything.
dave		I don't think I'll go to the race. I should be here when Papa wakes up.
dave		It's a passport.
dave		Oh, Mama... Cont.
dave		I win this one for you, Mama.
day		They'are posing Just like in the picture. People are taking pictures of them. They smile and wave making sure not to obscure the "Cinzano" on their jersies as they do. Cont.  567
announcer		We are proud to have with us today the famous Team Cinzano from Italy. They are touring America and so far are undefeated. Later on they have been kind enough to agree to hold a racing clinic which none of you should miss.
another angle		Dave is putting a banana and an apple in the back pocket of his Jersey. Other riders are doing likewise. Almost all of them are taking bananas.
announcer		 Everybody please move to the starting Line.
announcer		 Riders ready[ Timers ready! A gun is fired. The Italians take off. Cont.
another angle		We see the pack from the back as it moves forward slowly and then faster, and faster, the riders in the back working their way up.
long shot		The huge pack of riders is now disappearing around a bend in the road.
long shot		We see the pack climbing the hill.
dave		Buon giorno. Come sta? The Italians look stunned. The 1ST ITALIAN is annoyed. The ZTH ITALIAN seems amused.
dave		Oggi fa caldo, none vero? 
dave		'Cho tempo Para piovera? 
mi scusii		 He takes off. The other three follow him while Dave fumbles around to get back in the right gear.
dave		Mi scusi! The 4th Italian appreciates this little reversal. The lst Italian is getting a brutal look in his face.
cyril		I feel like one of those dwarfs ...you know...when they think that Snow White's dead. Mike turns to Dave.
miss		So I guess you're just a cutter .again like the rest of us.
dave		I guess.
dave		Oh, Dad... He can't help himself anymore. He bursts into tears and hugs his father. Mr. Blase doesn't know what to do. His arms are out as if he doesn't know how to embrace.
dave		You; hungry, Jake, is that it?
another angle		We SEE Mr. Blase standing in the doorway looking at him.
dave		Yes, Dad.
dave		Yes,. I know, Dad.
dave		Sure.
dave		I don't mind.
dave		Yeah, both of us did.
dave		Well, I think, eh, one of us did all right. But neither of us...eh...I won't go, Dad. The hell with them. I'm not ashamed of being a cutter. I don't want you feeling bad.
dave		Yeah, a little. And then, there's the rest of the guys.
dave		Yeah.
dave		Yes, can I speak to Ka... Eathy, please. A doorbell is heard.
moocher		 They sold any house and Dave said I could stay here for a bit. Dave hangs up the phone as Cyril and Moocher enter carrying Moocher's barbell set and a suitcase.
cyril		Can I sleep over too.
moocher		THE UNIVERSITY bought my dad's X house.
cyril		Our year's almost up...and... well...if anybody's got plans that don't include me...that's all right. I've got plans myself that don't include me. Cont.
dave		I tried-calling her on the phone to tell her but- 3:...l Just couldn't.
moocher		When she sees you in the race she'll find out. Maybe if she really likes you she won't care. You know Nancy and I...
dave		Did it make you feel any better? Once.
dave		Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned.
priest		What have you done, my son? Cant.  567
dave		I have lied and cheated. I told this real nice girl that I'm Italian.
priest		Why did you do that?
dave		I guess... well...I wanted to be Italian. I guess I still do.
priest		Me too. Ah, Romal Believe me, son, it's hard as hell to make it up the ladder of the church hierarchy if you're not Italian. You ever hear of an Irish Pope? You take St. Mary, now. In Italian it's Santa Maria. Ah, 'Santa Maria.' Do you know Silent Night in Italian? Fan-tastic. Even secular words like watermelon. 'Concomero.'
dave		What should I do, Father?
priest		Call me Padre, per favore. You see the difference? 'Padre.'
katmmine		God. What did you do to your hair?
katherine		I liked it better before. You look like everybody else now. She starts to mess it up with her hands in order to comb it back into its original shape. The results are not flattering.
dave		I am everybody else. I mean... 567 Cont.
dave		You see, Katherine...
dave		I feel terrible. His Italian accent is no longer in use and it makes Katherine ,just a tiny bit nervous.
katherine		You sound real funny tonight. Che Cosa, Franco?
dave		My name is Dave Blase.
dave		Nothing. It's just a name. I made it all up. I was born in Bloomington. I went to Bloomington High. I was the treasurer of the Latin Club and head of the Ushers for our assembly programs...I...
katherine		Stop kidding around.
dave		I'm what you call 'a cutter.' F Only I'm not really a cutter either, so I don't know what I am.
katherine		And Napoli...and the big family... Dave just nods that they were all lies.
kat ie		Well, it was a good act. You certainly fooled me. Cont.
dave		I just didn't know how else...
katherine		Do you know what you are?
dave		No, I haven't a clue.
kateine		I'll tell you what you are.
dave		Can't I even add some toe-clips?
mike		No, it's official issue. They said you can't add or change a thing.
dave		It's a piece of junkl
cyril		But it's got a nice personality. And it's had its rabies shots already.
moocher		I don't think it looks so bad.
dave		That's because you don't have to ride it. Cont.
moocher		You don't have to either, Dave. We're not going to beg you.
cyril		Plead perhaps, but beg...never. We have our pride.
miss		The hell with it. At least we got invited. That's something. I'll take it back. He starts to take the bike away.
dave		You actually seem relieved, Mike. Mike pauses.
dave		You don't think we can win more, do you? Mike is silent.
dave		Why not?
kike		Well, maybe they are better.
dave		I've never heard you say that before.
mibe		Thatts because I ,never felt it before.
cyril		My dad would be proud of you. Our family motto is: It can't be done.
dave		We'll see about that. He takes the bike from Mike and starts wheeling it away. He gets on it and rides it into the garage. The guys look at each other. NOISE is HEARD coming from the garage.
dave		What're you doing here? Katherine shrugs. They both half smile at each other.
sataeaine		Guess what? Now Dave shrugs.
dave		I don't know..
katherine		And I'm going to Italy after all. With my parents. Dave almost slips into an Italian gesture.
dave		I wish...I wish you a nice trip.
katherine		You too.
dave		I'm not going anywhere.
katherine		I don't know about that. X
moocher		It's my metabolism, Mr. Blase. I eat three times a day, but my metabolism eats five times a day.
dave		Aren't you going to come and see us race, Dad?
dave		You mean you might be a father.
moocher		I didn't think people your age... Mr. Blase interrupts.
moocher		You must be very happy, Mr. Blase.
another angle		We see them from the back. The word "CUTTERS" is stamped on the back of their T-shirts. There is something comical about this team. They are so uneven. Cyril is very tall. Moocher is very short. They are walking out of step. All the other teams are matched in height to accommodate the use of a bike w.th a set saddle position.
starter		Gentlemen, mount your bicycles! A great roar is heard.
another angle		The pace car is going faster.
another angle		The starter waves the flag as they go past him. The car speeds up and gets off the track. The race is on.
cyril		He's moving up. Look at that
announcer		 And so after twenty-five laps, the perennial favorites are up front. Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...and here comes...It's'the Cutters. Mr. Blase hits the car horn.
rod		He won't last.
mire		He-Ill last. Won't he? He'll last.
cyrll		Stop saying 'last '1
announcer		 It's amazing. After twenty-five miles, that's one hundred laps, folks...
announcer		 And he's pulling ahead. He's... He's actually pulling ahead. There x
cut to		Cant.
mike		We're number onel
moocher		No, he wants off. That's the signal. He's going to go one more lap.
mike		You mean one of as...
cyril		Once again I say oopsl Mike looks frightened.
president		Well, I had no idea.
black rider		That's the fastest white boy I've ever seen.
dave		Go, Mike! Mike is frozen.
moocher		We've got a lead, dammit. Get going. But the crowd, the other riders staring at him, the pressure of the moment is too much for Mike. He just stands there. The lead that they had is evaporating. The other riders are catching up. They are coming around the curve. Moocher runs up to Mike, pushes him away and gets on the bike. His intentions are great, but his legs are short. He can't sit in the saddle and reach the pedals. So he stands and rides just as the other teams come around.
announcer		 It's Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon...the Cutters are fading, but it was some try. Dave Blase seems to be hurt. The first aid team has reached him...
cyril		We're doing better than I thought we would.
mike's brotrer		C'mon, you cutter!
nancy		I've never seen anyone try so hard. I'm so proud of you.
cyril		We showed them, huh? Dave Jumps up. His frustration almost makes biSm look angry.
dave		Anybody can tryl
cyril		It's like Charlton Heston in.El Cid.
mike		They're going to lap us.
rod		C'monl C'monl You got him!
another angle		We see the black sprinter in Pit area 4 getting ready to take an exchange too. He and Rod look at each other.
new angle		Cyril, Moocher and Mike are running toward Dave. They are Jubilant. They jump on Dave knocking him down. Mike's' brother runs up and...
another angle		Nancy runs up to Moocher. She's still wearing her waitress uniform. She practically lifts him off the ground. Dave's parents rush past them. Everybody is shouting. The crowd is cheering. Confetti is falling.
another angle		Katherine is watching the celebration. She looks at Dave and then she looks at Rod not far away. Then she turns slowly and leaves-bidding a farewell, in a way, to a portion of her life. Cont.
girl		Pardon...do you know where is the office of the Pursar. Dave looks at her. Some of his collegiate exterior fades as he smiles at her.
dave		Pursar? Oh, you mean the Bursar's office.
girl		Oui, Bursar.
dave		You're...eh...you're French, eh?
dave		French is my major. It's just my first year, of course. Have you ever seen Le Tour de France?
girl		No.
dave		Not Oh, mon Dieu. But the French riders... they are the bestl Pouladoirl Anquetill
dave		Bon jour, Papa. They pass. Mr. Blase turns and looks back. His face registers mixed emotions, but the overriding one is one of acceptance. Dave turns to the girl.
dave		Je m'appelle... We FREEZE ON his French gesture.
****Dialogues from script :Brick.txt****

voice		 Brendan?
brendan		Emily?
emily		 Yeah. How's things?
brendan		 Status quo.
emily		Yeah?
brendan		Uh huh.
emily		That's good.
brendan		What's going on, Em?
emily		 It's good to see you, Brendan.
brendan		Two months.
emily		Yeah. I didn't even know your locker. I had to ask Brain.
brendan		Em, why don't we meet somewhere?
emily		I can't.
brendan		Why not?
emily		I screwed up real bad. I really screwed up.
brendan		Screwed up how?
emily		 I did what she said with the brick, I didn't know it was bad, but the pin's on it now for poor Frisco and they're playing it all on me-
brendan		Slow down now, what?
emily		You gotta help me Brendan I think tug- Oh!
brendan		Brain.
the brain		Hey Brendan. It's been awhile. Where you been eating?
brendan		Back of school.
the brain		Huh. Yeah, no one's seen you. What's it been, a couple months?
brendan		Yeah, it's been awhile. You gave Emily my locker number?
the brain		A few days ago. Was I wrong?
brendan		What?
the brain		To give it?
brendan		No.
the brain		It's been so long, I don't know you two's stats.
brendan		It has been awhile.   Who's she been eating with? THE BRAIN  I dunno. It's hard to keep track.
brendan		Is it?
the brain		 Can be.
brendan		Uh huh.
the brain		She hasn't been doing too good.
brendan		Yeah well. I'm not looking for a patch up. Em's life is her own. But she asked for my help.
the brain		Help with what?
brendan		I don't know. I don't even care, it's not my business. I just want to know she's ok, so I've got to find her. That's all this is.
the brain		Well. I know she was poking in with the Ivy-bound cheerleading elite. Laura Dannon's crowd.
brendan		Laura Dannon there with the Rabbit?
the brain		Yeah. Brad Bramish with her. Cream on the upper crust.
brendan		 He's a sap.
the brain		Know him?
brendan		By sight.
the brain		I won't argue then. Anyway Em tagged after them for a bit, but it didn't work. So she picked her way down the food chain. Last I seen she was with whasshername, that drama vamp. Small time dealer, augh, the evil one, the one you dated-
brendan		Kara.
the brain		That's my bus.
brendan		You know her locker number?
the brain		Kara's?
brendan		Em's.
brendan		Thanks Brain. Keep your specs on, find me if she shows.
the brain		Sure.
girl		 Hello, Brendan.
brendan		Kara.
kara		Come to see the show? Kisses the freshman's forehead, purring.
brendan		No, I didn't.  Lapdog, blow.
kara		 Don't be mean.
brendan		I'm all friendly.  Watch your head, kid - that thing bites.
brendan		About Emily Kostich.
kara		 Hurry!
brendan		Still picking your teeth with freshmen?
kara		You were a freshman once.
brendan		Way once, sister. You and Em were tight for a bit. Who's she eating with now?
kara		Eating with?
brendan		Eating with. Lunch.           Who.
kara		You're a cutie.
brendan		You gonna tell me?
kara		Guess you're up from the underneath then. The whole Jerr thing blown over. Lucky strikes, you and your partner get bulled, you come up clean. But I guess you were always the brains of the outfit.1
brendan		Where's Emily?
kara		Sometimes I wonder why I dumped you.
brendan		 God.
kara		I don't know where she's at, Brendan.
brendan		I know you do, so why don't you want me to find her?
kara		Maybe I'm looking out for you.
brendan		 Well I appreciate that.
kara		Brendan... you looking to get back into things? I could use you.
woman's voice		 Hello?
brendan		Hello, ma'am, this is Tom, I'm a friend from school. Could I speak to...
woman's voice		 Oh, hi Tom. Laura's here, hold on.
laura's voice		 Yes?
brendan		I'm calling for details.
laura's voice		For what?
brendan		Details about the party.
laura's voice		Who is this?
brendan		I don't think we've met.
laura's voice		Well then I don't think you're invited to my party. It's a rather exclusive gathering. BRENDAN I can imagine.  You should really work on your invite management. That might be a personal 'room for improvement' area in your life. But discretion of your invite sending aside, I have procured a certain someone's invitation, and would like details. A beat of silence.
laura's voice		You think you're cute, whoever you are.
brendan		Wait'll you get a load of my felt fedora and spats.
laura's voice		Who are you? Or I'll hang up.
brendan		You don't know me - I'll save you some time.
laura's voice		I know everyone and I've got all the time in the world.
brendan		Folly of youth. Ask whose invitation I've got.
laura's voice		 What you said.
brendan		Emily Kostich.
laura's voice		15 Bush street, up in Stockton Cove. Buzz 42 at the gate. Nine o'clock. But who-
brad		If the coach wants to play me I'll play, but I can't put my best game in if I've got to worry about whether I'm going to be in there. Halftime last game, coach is pissed I ran it on a pass play, out on the field he says to me 'you gotta think about the team and you gotta' you know and 'if you run that ball again you're out', and I said to him you gotta let me play! I'm out there, let me play, and he's saying 'no you're out' and I kept saying 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!', just right in his face-
biff		He was!
brad		Just 'Let me play! Let me play! Let me play!' 'No you gotta' 'No, let me play! Let me play! Let me play!'
brendan		Tom!
brad		 He doesn't give me a play to make, what can I do, you know?
brendan		Leaving.
brad		Oh yeah?
brendan		Uh huh. Unless your anecdote's got a 2nd act.
brad		Why don't you leave?
brendan		 That's what I was doing.
laura		 Whiskey?
brendan		Jameson.
laura		I like a man who knows what he's drinking.
brendan		That's a pretty sick thing to be attracted to.
laura		Brad's not a good guy to get on the wrong side of.
brendan		Uh huh.
laura		Fearless flyer. Quit your yappin and fix me one.
laura		I'll never get through all this.
brendan		Uh huh.
laura		I knew your old partner Jerr since grade school. Tough break. How long were you two joined up before your operation got the sting?
brendan		A few months. Could have helped himself out by turning me in, but he took the heat. He was a good guy. Solid.
laura		Was he?
brendan		You knew him.
laura		Yeah I did. So why are you here tonight?
brendan		I'm looking for Emily.
laura		She wasn't invited.
brendan		She had an invitation.
laura		Well like you said, I've got to work on that. Em's been AWOL for a good month, nobody's seen her.
brendan		I saw her yesterday.
laura		Nearly nobody's seen her. So what did she tell you?
brendan		 Score 0 for finesse.
laura		Listen, you're scratching at the wrong door. I wasn't with Emily enough to know details of what she was in, I just got wind of the downfall, and I didn't get any details of that, except that it was bad. So now that we're showing some cards...
brendan		If you haven't got a finger in Em's troubles, why'd her name get me into your rather exclusive party?
laura		Keep up with me now. I don't know, but it sounded like you did, and a body's got a right to be curious. Now I'm not so sure.
brendan		Well I'll put that body to bed. I don't know a damn thing about whatever troubles, and that works for me. I just want to find her.
laura		Coffee and pie.
brendan		Coffee and pie oh my?
laura		And you didn't hear it from me.
brendan		Sure.
laura		You'll stay right here and wait -- I'll be five minutes.
brendan		Yes.
brendan		Where's Dode?
stoner 1		Dunno, bra.
brendan		Dode?
stoner 2		Uh uh.
dode		Hey Brendan. Maybe you shouldn't be here.
brendan		Kara told me you know where Em's at.
dode		Uh huh.   And why are you looking for Em?
brendan		She asked for my help.
dode		Uh huh. Listen man, I've got plenty on my plate without dealing with some jilted ex.
brendan		It's not about that.
dode		Whatever it's about, act smarter than you look and drop it.
brendan		Where is she?
dode		She's with me, and right now that's the best place for her. Leave the low life to the low lifers and dangle.
brendan		You're on the bright side of dim, Dode, but if I thought you had this half- handled I'd be eating lunch. Where's she at?
dode		Better get while it's good.
big stoner		Back off.
brendan		Throw one at me if you want, hash head. I've got all five senses and I slept last night, that puts me six up on the lot of you.
big stoner		Just easy-
brendan		 Where's Em?
dode		 She's with me. She was tight when she called you, man. Came to and freaked. She told me to shake you if you came by. Said you'd only make things worse.
dode		Deal with whatever this ain't about and drop it.
big stoner		 Nothing more here, bra.
brendan		Tell Emily I want to see her. Tell her if she still wants my help or not that's her business, but I want to hear it straight from her.
dode		She don't -
brendan		Today. She knows where I eat lunch.
big stoner		And stay out, punk!
emily		I must have sounded pretty crazy on the phone. Yesterday.
brendan		 Who fed you that line, Em?
emily		And stop picking on Dode. He's a good guy.
brendan		The Carrows rat?
emily		He's a good friend.
brendan		So what am I?
emily		 Yeah, what are you? Eating back here, not liking anybody, how are you judging anyone? I loved you alot but I couldn't stand it, I had to get with people. I couldn't heckle life with you, I had to see what was what.
brendan		You've got to come back to me, Em.
emily		No. No. Never. I'm sorry. Never. I can't love on your terms, Brendan. I can't do that, I'm not like you.
brendan		You're in a spot, I can get you out of it. Come back to me, and whatever heat follows you I'll deal with.
emily		No. You're not hearing me, no. I don't want to be put away and protected. No.
brendan		Tell me about the trouble, the brick and the pin -
emily		You gonna fix things like you did with Jerr? No. I came to say goodbye, for good. Whatever you have to do to let me go, do it. I'm gonna let you go, I've
the brain		Hm. Do you know anything else about this?
brendan		 Mm.
the brain		Slim pickings. Why'd you let Dode fly when he came back to whose-her-name, at the theater?
brendan		 But anyway.
the brain		Hm. Well, if this is what I think it is, it didn't come straight from Dode, less he's playing out of his league.  I can only give you my best guess.
brendan		Yeah.
the brain		When the upper crust does shady deeds they do them in different spots around town. I know under the pier's one, down by the bike trails in the state park's another. There's alot of them. The pitch is they've got little symbols for each one, and that's how they tell each other the place, so word won't get around. So this might be that.
brendan		But Dode wouldn't know it?
the brain		This is upper crust. Dode's pie pan grease.
brendan		Call anything up?
the brain		How many places start with 'A'? Or if it's a shape, or just a random symbol. Anyway, even if you figured it out, what good could you do? She's smart, she knows the play, she's gunning to square things.
brendan		Yeah.
the brain		You said her business was none of yours, so she's alright, forget it now. Go home, sleep.
figure		 Your little Em.
the brain		Hey, Brendan.
brendan		 I couldn't sleep.
the brain		 Find Emily?
brendan		Yeah. What, are you here for zero?
the brain		Nah, I gotta take the early bus, cause the others don't run by my street.
brendan		Bad break.
the brain		Eh. Time to read's nice. So what's the word with Em?
brendan		She's gone.
the brain		Can't raise her?
brendan		No, I can't.
the brain		So what now?
brendan		Now. I don't know. I guess it's... I don't know.
the brain		You think you can help her?
brendan		No.
the brain		You think you can get the straight, maybe break some deserving teeth?
brendan		Yeah. I think I could.
the brain		Well.
brendan		Kara tried to rope me. She came right out and asked. She was scared. Tell me to walk from this, Brain. Tell me to drop it.
the brain		Walk from it. Drop it.  You're thick as what-all, Brendan. BRENDAN Yes I am.
the brain		What first, tip the bulls?
brendan		No, bulls would gum it. They'd flash their dusty standards at the wide-eyes and probably find some yegg to pin, probably even the right one. But they'd trample the real tracks and scare the real players back into their holes, and if we're doing this I want the whole story. No cops, not for a bit.
the brain		So what first?
brendan		I don't know. Your mom still have the cell?
the brain		In her car.
brendan		Borrow it for a few days, get me the number.  Wait for my word, and cover for me first period. I'm going to be a little late.
emily		You can't keep me safe, Brendan. I'm in a bigger world now, and you can't hide me from it, and you can't beat it. Not if I don't want you to.
the brain		There's the cell number.
brendan		Keep it on vibrate.
the brain		 Yeah.
brendan		Better stop meeting me in the open too. I'm going to start getting visible, and I need you on the underneath. I'll call.
the brain		Trueman asked for you. Wants words in his office.
brendan		I bet. Keep him off me - stonewall him, he won't bite, just keep him away from me.
the brain		I'll try. So what's first?
brendan		Make Em's troubles mine. I'm going to throw a few words at you, tell me if they catch. Brick.
the brain		No.
brendan		Or bad brick.
the brain		No.
brendan		Tug.
the brain		Tug... that might be a drink.
brendan		Drink?
the brain		Vodka and milk or something, or maybe not.
brendan		Poor Frisco.
the brain		Frisco. Frisco Farr1 was a sophomore last year, I think. Real trash, maybe hit a class a week. Didn't know him then, and haven't seen him around.
brendan		Pin.
the brain		Pin... the Pin?
brendan		The Pin, yeah.
the brain		The Pin's kind of a local spook story. You know the Kingpin? BRENDAN I've heard it.
the brain		Same thing. Supposed to be old, like 26, lives in town.
brendan		Jake1 runner, right?
the brain		Big time... maybe. Ask any dope rat where their junk sprang they'll say they scraped it from that who scored it from this who bought it off so, and after four or five connections the list'll always end with the Pin. But I'll becha you got every rat in town together and said 'show your hands' if any of them've actually seen the Pin, you'd get a crowd of full pockets.
brendan		You think the Pin's just a tale to take whatever heat?
the brain		 But what's first?
brendan		A show of hands.
kara		 Hey Brendan. Here for the show?
brendan		No.
kara		Would you go then, honey, cause I've got this headache.
brendan		Try smoking like a chimney, I've heard that helps.
kara		You don't know Dode's brand.
brendan		Oh I do now.
brendan		Alright.
kara		The story about what?
brendan		I don't want to play games if you've got a headache. Get me if you want to spill it, but I can't guarantee safe passage after tonight.
kara		I don't know what- At the stage door, not slowing.
brendan		Tell the Pin that Brad was my calling card, and I need words.
kara		Brad Bramish? Through the door and into the theater.
brendan		 Tail Kara through lunch. She's got rehearsal but she'll blow early. She goes home, drop her, else wait for my call.
brad		That's all I'm saying, is put me in the game and I'll do what needs to be done, but they don't put me in, what needs doing don't get done and don't come crying to me, man. Get off my grill man, you didn't put me in, don't come to me if you didn't let me play.
biff		They didn't!
brad		Hey! What are you doing here?
brendan		Listening.
brad		Uh huh.
brendan		Alright, you got me. I'm a scout for the Gophers.
brad		 Oh yeah?
brendan		Of all things, yeah. Been watching your game for a month, but that story just now clenched it. You've got heart, kid. How soon can you move to Minneapolis?
brad		 Yeah?
brendan		Cold winters, but they've got a great public transit system.
brad		Yeah?
brendan		Yeah.
brad		Oh yeah?
brendan		There's a thesaurus in the library. 'Yeah's under 'Y'. Go ahead, I'll wait.
brad		Who invited you?
brendan		To the parking lot? Well gee I kind of invited myself.
brad		I think you'd better leave then.
brendan		No, I'm having too good a time.
brad		Just the same.
brendan		With you?
brad		You know what's good for you you'll just beat it. Beating a small frye won't win me anything and it's not going to do you any good-
straggler		Hey, is there a fight?
brendan		Yeah.
laura		Hey.
laura		You're quite a pill. BRENDAN Uh huh.
laura		Where are you going?
brendan		Home.
laura		Why did you take a powder the other night?
brendan		Same reason I'm taking one now.
laura		Hold it.  I don't get you. That's a chilly heel to be giving a girl who's where you want to know about.
brendan		I'll get where I'm going just fine.
laura		I want to help you.
brendan		Go away.
laura		I wouldn't have to lead you in by the hand-
brendan		I can't trust you. Brad was a sap, you weren't, you were with him and so you were playing him, so you're a player. With you behind me I'd have to tie one eye up watching both your hands, and I can't spare it.
laura		You're not Brad.
brendan		No, I'm not.
the brain		 You didn't call.
brendan		Sorry. Kara went home though, didn't she? THE BRAIN Yeah, but she stopped at a payphone and made two calls that she didn't want on her phone bill.
brendan		Get the numbers?
the brain		No. Sorry.
brendan		S'alright. Are me and Brad front page news?
the brain		All the buzz. You really do that?
brendan		Yeah.
the brain		Why? Is Brad the Pin?
brendan		Brad's a sap. I downed him on his field and his crew didn't bite. So now I know he's a sap and anyone who acts like he isn't is profiting by it. That's not why I roughed him, though.
brain		For kicks?
brendan		Economics. Brad's the school's biggest jake buyer, so if this Pin is behind all the selling, I just got his attention. Anyway, now's just shaking things out. Look, you know a kid around the burgh, lanky, short, shaved head, turns a black tang?
the brain		I told you before I don't know the car. Those types are a nickel a pound, but nobody I know that you don't. And Trueman again-
brendan		Keep him off. And keep your specs on - I need to find that kid.
the brain		Okay.
trueman		You didn't know this boy?
brendan		No sir, never seen him.
trueman		And he just hit you?
brendan		Like I said, he asked for my lunch money first. Good thing I brown bagged it.
trueman		Alright Brendan. I've been looking to talk to you.
brendan		No. I gave you Jerr to see him eaten, not to see you fed.
trueman		Fine, and well put.
brendan		Accelerated English, Mrs. Kasprzyk.
trueman		Tough teacher?
brendan		Tough but fair.
trueman		Mm. Anyway then, we know you're clean, and you've, despite your motives, you've been an asset to us. I think you're a good kid. BRENDAN Uh huh.
trueman		I want to run a couple names by you.
brendan		 I was done here three months ago. I told you then I'd give you Jerr and that was that, I'm not your inside line and I'm not your boy.
trueman		That's not a very helpful-
brendan		 You know what I'm in if the wrong yeg saw me pulled in here?
trueman		What are you in?
brendan		No. And no more of these informal chats - if you've got a discipline issue with me write me up or suspend me and I'll see you at the parent conference.
trueman		Hold it, I could - hold it - could write you up for talking back to a VP. For looking at me in a threatening way. I'd exercise a little more tact, Mr. Frye. You can't pull a play like that unless I need you for something. So do I?
brendan		Maybe.
trueman		So maybe you're gonna need me too.
brendan		Maybe. Alright, I need you off my back completely for a few weeks. There might be some heat soon.
trueman		 If it's something I can't cover, I won't go to bat for you.
brendan		If I get caught like that it's curtains anyway - I couldn't have brass cutting me favors in public. I'm just saying now so you don't come kicking in my homeroom door once trouble starts.
trueman		Okay, here's what I can do. I won't pin you for anything you aren't caught at. I'll ride it a little while, as long as it doesn't get too rough. But if anything comes up with your fingerprints on it, I can't help you. Also, if I get to the end of whatever this is and it gets hot and you don't deliver, The Veep will need someone to hand over, police- wise. And I'll have you. There better be some meat at the end of this like you say, or at least a fall guy, or you're it.
brendan		Sure I am. Got one more favor to ask.
trueman		Get the hell off my campus, punk! Brendan glances around, and limps off.
the brain		No, Dode's MIA all around.
brendan		I'm 9 of 10 that Kara's got him, but who knows where. I shook but she's not spilling.
the brain		No more job offers? So she's got a play.
brendan		And I know enough about Kara to let that worry me. Alright, keep your specs on for him. Any other news?
the brain		Some. Laura Dannon came to me looking for you.
brendan		 She did, huh?
the brain		Fourth period, nearly shook me upside down. Can't say I didn't enjoy it, but why'd she come to me?
brendan		She's tapping Kara, and Kara knows you know me.
the brain		Yeah, well. She's some piece of work. If I had known where you were I might have told her.
brendan		That's the spirit. Ask around for Dode, tail Kara again at lunch. I got knives in my eyes, I'm going home sick. I'll call you tonight.
brendan		I want to see the Pin.
tugger		 Yeah, I guess you do.
tugger		Alright.
brendan		You the Pin?
pin		Yeah.  So now I'm very very curious what you're going to say next.
brendan		Maybe I'll just sit and bleed at you.
pin		Helled if you're gonna go breaking my best clients' noses and expect me to play sandbag. Anyway you've been sniffing me out before then, sniffing for me like a vampire bat for a horse
brendan		Call Ms. Dannon in from the hall first; she oughta hear this.
pin		 No dice, soldier. Would have been a neat trick, though.
brendan		 I was going to make up some bit of information or set up some phony deal, anything so you'd let me walk. Then I was going to go to the vice principal and spill him the street address of the biggest dope port in the burgh.
tugger		He knows zippo.
brendan		1250 Vista Blanca, the ink blotter at the desk in the den in the basement of the house with the tacky mailbox.
tugger		You gonna do what now?!
pin		No good, soldier.
laura		 Tug, stop.
brendan		Where are my glasses?  Hell with ya then. Which wall's the door in?
pin		Sorry about this kid, but what the hell with what you said before.
mother		I thought we had orange juice, Brendan, I'm sorry. How about Tang, or that's more like soda isn't it, or not soda but it hasn't got any juice in it, it can't be very fortifying.
brendan		Water's fine, ma'am, thanks.
mother		Now just a moment, we have apple juice here, if you'd like that, or milk, though you've got that in your cornflakes, I don't know if drinking it as well might be too much.
brendan		Apple juice sounds terrific.
mother		It's country style.
brendan		That's perfect.
mother		I'll even give it to you in a country glass, how'd that be? Boys?
tugger		I'm fine, Mrs. M.
pin		Thanks, mom.
mother		Okay, well I'm going to go, um, do something in the other room now...
pin		 So hows bout we take another snap at hearing your tale?
brendan		I don't know. It starts out same as before, and this floor ain't carpeted.
pin		We're cooled off.
brendan		Yeah well, your muscle seemed plenty cool putting his fist in my head. I want him out.
pin		Looky, soldier-
brendan		The ape blows or I clam.
tugger		 So clam! What've you got I can't beat out of you back in the basement?
pin		Give us a few minutes, Tug.
brendan		About a year ago I had a small time dealing partnership with Jerr Madison. Know him?
pin		Till he took the fall for you.
brendan		Yeah well. I didn't ask him to, but he was a straight player. I got out clean - almost. Nothing on my official record, but the VPs play it like I owe them one. When I made it clear I wasn't playing their hound dog, well they didn't like it. They keep calling me in, badgering me.
pin		Gee that's tough.
brendan		I don't like being told whose side I'm on. So now they think I'm on your trail, I'm in a nice spot to know their movements and feed them yours.
pin		I gotcha.
brendan		You haven't got me yet.
pin		What, price?
brendan		Considering the benefits my services could yield, I don't think that's unreasonable.
pin		And what are your services exactly, just so I can be specific on the invoice?
brendan		 Whatever serves your interests.
pin		Fair enough. I'll have my boys check your tale, and seeing how it stretches we'll either rub or hire you. You'll know which by end of the day tomorrow.
laura		I'll drive you back. INT. LAURA'S CONVERTIBLE MOVING - SUNSET
brendan		Just drop me at school.  How long was I out?
laura		Half an hour. It took all of it for me to cool the Pin down.
brendan		 Thanks.
laura		You trust me now?
brendan		Less than when I didn't trust you before. If you can tell me your angle in this, maybe I can.
laura		Come here.1
brendan		So far.
laura		A few months go by, and the next I hear the Pin's raging over a situation with some certain junk Em was partial to, and the downfall's coming on Em's head.
brendan		You think Em scraped the junk off the Pin?
laura		I don't know, but whether she scraped or copped or just ran her tab around the world and into her own back, it must have been grand. I've never seen the Pin so hot.
brendan		This all helps but it's not what I asked. What's your angle in all this?
laura		I don't know. I'm usually pretty sharp, but... maybe I see what you're doing for Emily, trying to help her. And I don't know anyone who would do that for me.
brendan		Now you are dangerous.
kara		 Brendan Brendan Brendan!
brendan		Where's Dode flopped?  I know you two are cozed up, so you'll tell me or you won't.
kara		Oooh, getting feisty.  Last time we talked you were giving ultimate-tims.
brendan		It worked. You went to Laura, didn't you? Told her my tale.
kara		All part of your plan?
brendan		Turned out to be.
kara		I feel so cheap and used.
brendan		Gol, I must seem a real cad. Sometimes I just hate myself.
kara		Whatever happened to us, Brendan?
brendan		Where's Dode flopped?
kara		We were a pair and a half for a few months, weren't we? Sometimes I miss having someone I can talk to. You ever miss having someone? I guess you must.
brendan		I need to hear Dode's tale about Emily. It's important.
kara		 You better be sure you wanna know whatcha wanna know.
brendan		Uh huh. Laura's working with me now, and I'll have the Pin and Tug in my corner soon. The sooner I get the truth from Dode or the truth about Dode from you, the safer you'll both be. No? Pass it on to Dode anyway. Maybe he'll have the
kara		You didn't, did you?
the brain		 So what happens now?
brendan		Now we wait for the Pin's answer. Unless his crew spotted VP Truman's social call this morning, it'll be yes. I'd give us 70/30. If we're in I get under his skin and see what's what. You stick to Kara, keep your specs peeled for Dode and stay away from Laura.
the brain		I think she's with us, Brendan.
brendan		 I'll let you know when she is.
the brain		Okay.
brendan		You the Pin's?
brendan		Chuck Burns, big lug with hair like a sheepdog.
the brain		 Yeah I know him, I just can't pin him to any crowd. He's definitely not muscle for anyone. He taps the Carrows crowd but doesn't hang with them. If you've got a guess I could check it out-
brendan		The Pin. If he's with the Pin everything's kablooie and I gotta blow the burgh.
the brain		I'll check it. I'm in third now- Brendan spots the Pin's Cady pulling into the parking lot.
brendan		Never mind. If I don't call by three call in the bulls.
voice		Get in.
brendan		So?
pin		So. Tangles.
brendan		Yeah.
pin		We're doing a thing down at the Hole tonight. Know it?
brendan		South of T Street, yeah.
pin		It's sort of a welcome you in thing. Eight o'clock.
voice		 I know what you did. I saw what you did.1
brendan		So?
voice		Anyone I tell, it would ruin you some way. And I'm going to tell someone.
brendan		Are you making an offer?
voice		Maybe. Or maybe I'll just do you in.
brendan		Hire another hash head to blade me?
voice		Don't need no blades, shamus. I just gotta squawk.
brendan		What do you want?
voice		Just to see you sweat.
the brain		 Brendan?
brendan		Yeah.
the brain		You alright?
brendan		Yeah, I'm fine. Keep digging on the Burns lug, but the main thing is to find Dode. He set up whatever Emily walked into, it's getting more and more urgent we talk.
the brain		Alright. Trueman was looking for you.
brendan		Trueman and the VP?
the brain		No, just Trueman.
brendan		Asked for me?
the brain		No, but looked.
brendan		That's not good. Alright, keep me posted.
pin		So I'm going to start you on the dope circles, cleaning up the Turkish dues, pulling in the strags.
brendan		Small fries.
pin		Yeah, well. Just to see how you handle. Anyway there isn't much else doing. I'm tailing out this big deal, but that's almost done.
brendan		Oh yeah? What was it?
pin		Big time. Biggest I ever done, and there was a snag in it, but it's almost done now.
brendan		What was it?
pin		It's over.
brendan		Almost, you said.
pin		It's over enough. You're gonna make me curious, being so curious.
brendan		Yeah?
pin		He's got my best interests, I know, he's loyal, he just gets hot.
brendan		Muscle you can't control's no good at that.
pin		You're working for me, not Tug, that's all.
brendan		Alright.
pin		Things can get, you know, it's tough sometimes. Twisted, complicated, watching all the, I don't know. Everyone's got their thing.  You read Tolkien?
brendan		What?
pin		Tolkien, the Hobbit books?
brendan		Yeah.
pin		His descriptions of things are really good.
brendan		Oh yeah?
pin		He makes you want to be there.
the brain		 Don't go to class.
brendan		What?
the brain		Fifth period Trueman and the VP come in asking for you.
brendan		Agh.
the brain		Did they call your mom?
brendan		Probably. I got home late.
the brain		Get out of there too, then. Meet me behind the library. I've got some stuff.
the brain		Frisco Farr was found on a sidewalk outside Pinkerton's Deli three weeks ago. He was in a coma, his stomach contained a sausage sandwich, a horse dose of Heroin and traces of Choleric Tricemate, a poisonous chemical found in laundry detergent. Frisco's still under
brendan		OD?
the brain		No, the chem the junk must have been cut with put him down.
brendan		Huh. Bad junk. Bad brick... could that form of Heroin be called 'Brick'?
the brain		No -- it was a concentrated powder, its street handle's 'whip' or 'rock' or 'brock'.  Here. From Laura.
brendan		I told you to stay clear of Laura.
the brain		You tell her to stay clear of me?
brendan		 I gotta get voicemail.
the brain		No.
brendan		This isn't good.
trueman		 This is Trueman.
brendan		What the hell are you doing asking for me in class?
trueman		What the hell are you doing out of class?
brendan		What?
trueman		 The VP and I needed to ask you a few questions about Emily Kostich, who you might have heard is missing. It's a very serious thing. The police are involved. The VP and I knew you two were close, so the VP and I came to ask you questions, but you were truant. If you don't have a valid excuse-
the brain		What?
brendan		I've been cut loose. I'm not safe here. We shouldn't have met in the open. Alright, lay low, but ask on the underneath for Dode. That's all that matters now, find Dode, but do it on the underneath, got it?
the brain		What are you going to do?
brendan		I'd like to have played it safe, but there's no time. The Pin's not letting
the brain		How?
brendan		I don't know. Just find Dode.
tugger		What with the poking, genius?! Maybe you're poking for your bull friends!
brendan		Don't be a sap. I can't even face up at school, the VP's so hot for me.
tugger		Yeah well. Maybe you're looking to make good.
brendan		I'm looking to find this big game the Pin's played, not to gum it, but just so when its tail jams in my back I'll know who to bill for the embalming.
tugger		You oughta ask him what you wanna know.
brendan		I did. He didn't tell me.
tugger		Yeah, well. That's understandable.
tugger		There was ten of them. I don't know where he picked them, he didn't tell me. BRENDAN  Huh.
tugger		So we get ten kils of brock, there aint enough marks in the whole burgh to eat that. So he unloads eight of em up way north, even up to the docks. I don't know who.
brendan		Didn't tell you.
tugger		Yeah. That was eight. So that's the tenth in there. We gotta break it into doses, sell em off round the high, maybe some by Shorecliffs.
brendan		What about the ninth brick?
tugger		Ah yeah. There were problems with that.
brendan		Yeah?
tugger		It, uh...
brendan		Frisco.
tugger		Yeah, poor Frisco. You heard about that. We'll track down the rat. Just takes time.
brendan		I heard something fell with Emily Kostich.
tugger		Emily who?
brendan		Kostich.
tugger		Don't know her.
brendan		Huh.
tugger		Has the Pin talked about her? BRENDAN Not to me.
tugger		Yeah, he might know something. Ask him. Tell me what he says, cause if you heard something, you know, I wanna check.
brendan		Sure. The screen door swings open -- enter the Pin. If he's surprised he doesn't show it.
pin		Pow wowing?
brendan		Just shooting the shat.
tugger		Yeah, just shooting it.
pin		Good.
tugger		Emily?
pin		Emily Kostich. Where she's at now. Says we'd want to know. Wants to meet.
tugger		 Yeah?
pin		So we'll meet him. Four o'clock.  Emily was Tug's girl for awhile. You know Emily, didn't you? BRENDAN A while back.
pin		You've heard she's missing?
brendan		Yeah, I heard that.
pin		So maybe you want to come along too.
brendan		What has Emily got to do with you?
pin		 Show, maybe we'll find out.
brendan		That's my ride.
pin		Four o'clock.
brendan		 A payphone, anywhere.
laura		What-
payphone		The mobile customer you have called is away from the phone-
brendan		 What time is it?
laura		Lie down, Brendan- BRENDAN What time-
laura		You've got a fever, you've got to go to the hospital or-
brendan		What time is it?
laura		Three forty. You've got to rest, you're feverish.
laura		Get back in the car, I'm taking you home, you're sick, you need-
brendan		Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
laura		Get back in the car.
brendan		Do it! Will you do it? I need you to do this. I need you, here. Please.
brendan		What are you doing, Dode?
dode		You gonna stop me?
brendan		What do you think you're doing, Dode? DODE I saw you. I saw what you did.
brendan		What'd you see?
dode		I saw you.
brendan		What'd you see me?
dode		You were with her, dead, and you took the body.
brendan		Yeah, I did. That's all you saw? What about before?
dode		Before what?
brendan		Did you see who killed her before I got there?
dode		 You killed her.
brendan		I found the body, Dode.
dode		You, I thought you didn't, but we figured out, I got the news on ya, cause you hid the body, why wouldn't-
brendan		Who's 'we'?
dode		Shut up! You're always talking, always this and that smartso, you're gonna shut up now!
brendan		I didn't kill her, Dode.
dode		You're not going to talk this!
brendan		Dode, I know you're thinking of Em, I know you tried to help her-
dode		Shut up! You're gonna shut your
brendan		-so I'm telling you now you're in over your head, you don't want to put your hand in this-
dode		Shut up! She's dead, you-
brendan		Why was she scared, Dode? She came to me, who was she scared of? I think I know why, I just gotta know who!
brendan		Dode.
dode		You couldn't stand it. Your little Em. She was gonna keep it, it was mine, and you couldn't stand that.
brendan		What was yours?
dode		I had you pegged.
brendan		What was yours? DODE I loved her. And I woulda loved the kid. I'm gonna bury you.
brendan		What'd I miss?
pin		Dode here says Emily Kostich is dead.
brendan		Oh yeah?
pin		Yeah. He says he knows who did it. He says he knows where the body's at. 
dode		Plenty.
pin		Plenty, he says.
brendan		Uh huh. And he wants cash on the nail. He's a pot skulled reef worm with more hop in his head than blood. Why pay for dirt you can't believe?
dode		You'll believe this.
brendan		 Maybe you will.
dode		You'll believe it, cause it's someone close to you. Real close.
brendan		Maybe it's hot, but it's Dode, you can't trust it.
dode		Real close.
brendan		I'm getting my shoes wet for this. Let him milk you if you want.
pin		 It's still too much.
dode		No it's not. You won't complain when you hear it.
brendan		 So maybe you should.
dode		You had her against the wall with the brick -
pin		I know my business. It's still too much.
dode		 It's not, cause that's not why she was killed, and it's real important to you, cause the person who killed her's real close, and cause he's got a lot to lose, and he knows if I don't bury him by spilling to you I spill to the bulls and bury him for real, and he's really really scared - she had a kid in her and he couldn't stand -
brendan		Tug, it's alright!
pin		Tug, stop.
fade in:		A CEILING FAN
tugger		She sprung it on me, just. That's a hell of a thing to spring on a guy. I don't remember much. Laura talked me down after, said whatever, she knew her, said it wasn't true, but I still think sometimes. I think bout it being true. Bout it being mine. And maybe I did it cause I thought it was true. A hell of a thing.
brendan		What's the stats?
tugger		Everyone's just laying low. You're here with us, at my folks place. They're gone. The bulls got Dode fore the tide took his body.
brendan		Tide?
tugger		Yeah, strong tide, would've taken the body, like out to sea. It can do that. But the fuzz got there first.
brendan		War?
tugger		You're with us.
brendan		The hell I am.
tugger		So just lie low. Sleep some more. Laura, she said you should sleep. Tugger exits. Brendan runs his fingers through his hair, steps into his shoes and hobbles out of the room.
the brain		 Brendan?
brendan		Yeah.
the brain		Are you - what, man, have you heard about Dode-
brendan		I was there.
the brain		You-
brendan		Where were you yesterday? I called.
the brain		Kasprzyk took my phone, turned it off. I just now got it back.
brendan		Alright, listen-
the brain		Are you okay?
brendan		Just listen. Is my name in the papers with the story?
the brain		No.
brendan		Alright. Is it just Dode in the papers? THE BRAIN Yeah. What do you mean?
brendan		Listen, I'm going to be calling you tonight, probably late. Sleep with your phone on. Could you get a car if you needed to?
the brain		If it's late enough I could take my mom's-
brendan		Be ready then. I'll call.
the brain		Alright.
kara		Brendan. Did you hear about Dode?
brendan		You scheming tramp. You set that poor kid up, you hid him, fed him your tale. You got info from Laura and held Dode like a card till you could play him. For money!
kara		I don't know what you're talking about.
brendan		You'd bury me at the same time, but it was mostly for the money. You got Dode thinking Em had his kid, thinking I did it, and that was enough for him, but he stuck to the money cause you had your claws in him, cause he couldn't come away from the deal without it and make you happy.
kara		Sit down, you're a mess. Russ, go get my shoes from the wardrobe locker, would you sweetie?
kara		What are you doing?
brendan		Showing your ace.
voice		Far enough.
pin		Everyone's paying social calls.
brendan		Laura here?
pin		So? BRENDAN So what are the stats?
pin		The stats are war, soon as the press heat dies. And if you're with him, you're with him.
brendan		Tug got hot. He panicked.
pin		Tug's been after my digs from the get go.
brendan		No. He's been anxious cause he thought if you found out he killed Emily you'd turn him over. PIN He was right.
brendan		Yeah, well.
pin		I told him to get the straight, no roughing. I wasn't even there.
brendan		Alright. So he's a hot head. So you don't want him on your side, at least let's have a pow wow fore we start digging trenches. Maybe we can all walk away amiable enemies. What would it take?
pin		I don't know. We'd have to square everything between us. He owes me some money.
brendan		Alright, but we can talk.
pin		Yeah, alright.
brendan		Four o'clock.
pin		Tomorrow?
brendan		Tonight. Let's clear it all before it boils up again.
pin		Four tonight. You'll be here?
brendan		Yeah.
brendan		 I don't know.
tugger		For a smart guy you aint too smart. I said lay low.
laura		Tug.
brendan		She was at the Pin's.
tugger		Yeah, she's our go-between.
brendan		Uh huh. So here's the sit. You and the Pin are going to pow wow, four o'clock tonight, his place. Take all the muscle you want, you won't need it. He wants to talk straight, and you're going to work with him for whatever he needs, cause you don't want war.
tugger		Hell I don't. BRENDAN The Pin's sitting on the brick profits - hitting him now would be post. Make peace and wait for your chance.
laura		He's right, Tug. Smooth it out.
brendan		 Besides, he's got you on the Dode thing. War'll mean you vs. him and every bull in the burgh.
tugger		Yeah, we'll talk.
laura		 You going?
brendan		Yeah.
brendan		 Go away.
laura		I'm sorry Brendan.
laura		Don't go tonight.
brendan		I've got to make sure it plays out smooth.
laura		It'll play however it plays without you there.
brendan		I've got to make sure.
laura		Why? BRENDAN Cause if there's war, I'm in it too.
laura		Well let's just, I mean why not just run away. Go somewhere. I've got a car.  Yeah, it's a stupid thing, but think about it, why not? What, school? C'mon. Family?
brendan		Alright, stop.
brendan		Tell your boys no knuckle business.
tugger		They're just ready.
brendan		Your folks left a car here? TUGGER Yeah.
brendan		Take it and Laura's.  I'll go first in yours.
tugger		The hell-
brendan		I'll take the scenic route to draw off any tailers. They'll think it's you, they might even radio back that you're alone. Get it?
tugger		Mr. Smarts.
brendan		Alright. Got a cigarette?
tugger		No. I don't smoke. BRENDAN I've seen you smoke.
tugger		I don't smoke cigarettes.
brendan		Give me fifteen minutes, then go.
the brain		 Yeah.
brendan		Alright, I warned you. Can you get the car?
the brain		Yeah.
brendan		Go to 2014 Clancy, off Pico west of La Grange. Park outside and wait. Laura's inside. She hasn't got a car, but if she blows on foot or gets a pick, tail her. Alright?  Alright?
the brain		Okay. BRENDAN I'll call you when it gets light.  Thanks, Brain.
brendan		Talk. PIN I want full assurance that any heat from Emily and Dode is gonna be on just you. I don't even want my name pulled in the shindig. Second, you owe me six Cs, no rush, but I want your shake that it'll come home in not too much time.
brendan		 That's square. You did them after all. Lay low it'll blow over. Stick on this, one of you'll dish it to bury the other and you'll both get the rap. As to the six, did you borrow it?
tugger		Yeah.
brendan		Then you owe it. Shouldn't need a shake on that.
tugger		Alright to both.
brendan		Good. Let's seal it up and blow for keeps.
pin		Third thing. The last brick.
brendan		It's yours.
pin		That aint the point. I'm gonna start selling it. How do I know it aint bad?
brendan		Why would it be?
pin		Why was the last one? Cause someone got greedy. Tug here's had the means to swipe half and cut it bad for a long time. Now we're splits my loss of trust's retroactive.
brendan		Did you, Tug?
tugger		 No.
brendan		Alright, so let's shake and blow.
pin		Not good enough.
pin		I wanna see him dose it. Just to prove it. Then we're square.
tugger		Hell for that! I didn't touch your junk, that's it.
pin		I wanna see it.
tugger		To hell!
pin		Your not wanting to dose it's telling me something right here.
tugger		Yeah, it better be! It's telling that I'm out from your thumb, that I aint playing lapdog to no gothed up cripple no more!
brendan		I'll dose it.
pin		What?
brendan		If it'll shut you two apes up I'll   take the dose, and if I don't die we're   all right as rain, and if I do die you   two have your war, so long as you keep   it off my grave. Deal?
pin		Fine.   Tangles.
brendan		Johnny, go with him. They go.
tangles		 The brick, it's gone. The brick's gone.
pin		Make peace, huh? Talk it out? Get your boys in my den soes you could snag it under my nose?
tugger		Alright!
brendan		No, that's not-
pin		Was it bad, Tug? Snag it so I don't know, or sell it off to flat the war odds?
brendan		 Pin, think about it-
tugger		Alright, I did all that! Tug blows past Brendan like a train and slams the Pin into the ground with his fist. He punctuates his words with hard straight blows into the Pin's face.
pin		Do him!
brendan		Hey. Where are you?
the brain		 Library. Where are you?
brendan		Did she blow last night?
the brain		No. Stayed there till six thirty, then walked to school.
brendan		You didn't give her a ride, did you?
the brain		No.
brendan		But she came straight to school from Tug's?
the brain		Yeah.
brendan		She there now?
the brain		Yeah. Not with me, but here.
brendan		Alright. Tell her I wanna meet up on the basketball field in half an hour, then go home and get some sleep.
the brain		Alright. Brendan hangs up, then pauses, lost in thought.
laura		 Did you see it all? With Tug and the Pin?
brendan		No. I took your advice and didn't go.
laura		 No?
brendan		What happened?
laura		The papers say six dead, three around the house, one girl in the trunk of Tug's car, and the Pin and Tug.
brendan		Yeah? LAURA Tug tried to shoot his way out when the police got there. They tied him to Dode, too. Same gun. And the girl.
brendan		Huh. LAURA Well good thing you weren't there.
brendan		Yeah.
laura		You think the girl was Emily?
brendan		Probably.
laura		You loved her.
brendan		 Yeah I did.
laura		You did all this cause you loved her. And now it's finished.  I love you.
brendan		No.
laura		What?
brendan		No, it's not finished. Tug pulled the trigger on Em and he got the fall, but the bulls coulda found that out without me. Laura pulls back more.
laura		 What are you talking about?
brendan		It was you. What, you want the whole tale? You want me to tell it to you?
laura		 Tell it to me.
brendan		Alright, from the top. You had your fingers in Brad Bramish for appearances and to keep him buying from the Pin, who you were hooked with. Emily came to you and Brad, you saw her for what she was, an insecure little girl trying to get in. She goes on the backburner. Meanwhile maybe you're getting bored, maybe just greedy, so when the Pin scores big with the bricks you take your shot. You hook one, take half, and cut it back to size, but you cut it bad. Maybe accidentally, maybe to down the Pin's operation, doesn't matter. You put it back, but poor Frisco doses off it and lands in a coma.  So now the Pin's fuming, maybe he's jealous of Brad, so he comes to Brad's crowd looking for blood, or at least a scape. You know trouble. There's going to be a war over this. And there's Emily. She trusts you. She wants in. It's duck soup.
laura		 No.
brendan		You frame her for the bad brick, then you cut her loose. You turn on your heel and bite her in the throat. Last week on the payphone, Pico and Alexander, she saw something she was scared of. Tug's car driving by, the Pin driving, but she wouldn't have seen the Pin. No, she was across the street, angel. She saw the passenger side. She saw you. She saw you and ran like she saw some devil.
laura		Brendan, why are you-
brendan		And she took the hit. Dode hid her away, but the Pin was on to her, tracked her down, told her to meet him, that they would make good. Gave her a time, and a place. And sent Tug. Just to get the straight. But maybe you had talked Tug up, or maybe he just blew a fuse, but Em sprung it on him that she had her kid, and he did what anyone could count on Tug doing - he hit her. She took the hit for you. You let her take it.
laura		Stop it!
brendan		That's the tale.
laura		Stop it!
brendan		You're going to tell me it's not?
laura		It's not!
brendan		Look at me.
laura		You know me. I've only helped you. How can you - It isn't true!
brendan		I hope it isn't. I want you to have been on my side all along, not just trying to get me under your thumb like Brad and the Pin and Tug.
laura		No-
brendan		But I think you knew that meeting was going to blow up. I think that was your final play. But I hope I'm wrong. I hope everything I wrote in the note I dropped at Gary Trueman's office this morning is wrong. About your and Brad's involvement in the Pin's runnings. I hope you didn't steal the brick last night. In your purse.
laura		 I didn't.
brendan		That's good. That means you didn't let me walk into a slaughterhouse. You didn't lead Tug and the Pin and their crews to the slaughter. And when Trueman reads the note, takes my cue and searches your locker, he won't find a damn thing.
laura		 Brendan... don't...
brendan		 It's done.
laura		Done. Well. That's most of it. 9 out of 10. I told Em to tell Tug it was his. Told her it would soften him up. She said she wished she could keep it, but she didn't love the father. I was going to drive her down the next day, we'd found a doctor. Most wouldn't. She was starting to show. 3 months. You know whose kid that makes it, or have you known all along?
brendan		You get your straight?
the brain		Yeah. I wouldn't have-
brendan		S'alright.
the brain		Yeah, well. Chuck Burns came to. The knife guy. Spilled it all to the bulls, guess Brad Bramish hired him. On his own, just a grudge thing.
brendan		 Fits. You did good, Brain. Go sleep.
the brain		Yeah, you too.
brendan		She called me a dirty word.
the brain		Alright, you don't have to tell me. Thick.
brendan		As what-all.
****Dialogues from script :Bridesmaids.txt****

ted		Good morning. Annie pretends to wake up.
ted		Last night was fun.
annie		Yeah, I had the best time. I have't had that much fun on a first date in years, ever... She brushes the hair off his forehead as if he were her long time lover.
ted		So listen Annie, I like you. So, I want to be up front with you. I'm not really looking for a relationship right now. Annie's eyes grow large. She uncomfortably smiles at him, nodding.
annie		Oooooo. Oops. I mean, yeah. What?
ted		I just want to be honest right off the bat.
annie		Yeah, yeah. Ok. Yeah. Yeah. I love that. Annie struggles to maintain her composure.
ted		I'm just so busy and I don't have time for another person...I...
annie		Yeah, me too, I'm soo busy--
ted		And summer's coming--
annie		Yeah, summer, exactly. It's a crazy season. So you just wanna give me a call in the fall or--?
ted		Yeah, I'm not gonna be in town much even in the fall--
annie		You shouldn't be! Yeah, Halloween--
ted		I'm gonna be travelling a lot for work.
annie		Me too, I'm just- so many business trips to places that are just far awaycause I'm doing really well at work.
ted		And honestly,  I don't even know how I feel about the whole monogamy thing, is one person really enough for anyone? I mean, I like to be with a lot of different people.
annie		It is sooo refreshing to hear you say that, because isn't that what everyone thinks but is afraid to say? I mean, i's science. I'm-I don't want a relationship either. Let's just say that. And I wouldn't even care whatever you do or I do, I just wanna have tons of fun, like no strings attached at all. I'm just different from other girls.
ted		Yeah. Well anyway, I really should get going. I was gonna get a haircut today.
annie		Yeah, they say that every couple months it's good to trim the ends, you know, get all the dead stuff. So, cool. Cool. 've cut hair before. He waits, but Annie doesn't budge.
ted		Well, like I said I got stuff to do. Annie notices a picture of a sailboat above the bed.
annie		Yeah, me too. Gonna try to get some sailing in before the weather gets crazy...
ted holly		Cool, well I don't wanna be Get up the jib.. late. Ted gets up. Awkward moment leading into...
ted		Oh, and thanks for the lemon bars.
annie		Oh, no problem. Made from scratch.
ted		Sometimes it sticks!
annie		No, I love it! The gate starts to open. Annie exits.
annie		Oh, shit. The brakes squeak as she very slowly drives away.
lillian		It's summer?! What the hell does that mean? He can't date anyone in the summer?
annie		I guess? I don't know. I feel so stupid now.
lillian		No he's stupid Ann, not you.
annie		I think I might be a little bit stupid.
lillian		Ew. Did you have sex with him?
annie		No! But I gave him a blow job.
lillian		What?!
annie		Well, he kept putting it in my face. Lillian's boyfriend DOUGIE enters the bedroom eating a Luna Bar in his sweats. He's stretching and flexing his muscles trying to make her laugh.
lillian		Well, at least he was honest with you so you don't waste your time with him.
dougie		Baby, look how hard I worked out. Look at all this sweat.
lillian		Can you see that I'm on the phone? I'm talking to Annie.
dougie		Hey Annie.
lillian		Are you eating my Luna Bar? Those are for women you know?
dougie		Shit. Really?!
lillian		It's not gonna do anything to you.
dougie		Oh my God. My breasts are getting bigger. He tries to rub up against Lillian.
lillian		Ew, go take a shower. Dougie leaves.
lillian		I swear I cannot handle him right now. He has been driving me crazy. Sometimes it feels like I'm kissing my brother. I don't know what do. Annie pulls into an alleyway behind HARRINGTO'S JEWELRY STORE and starts changing into her work uniform in the car. A white blouse and navy skirt.
annie		At least you have someone. God, wha's wrong with me?
lillian		There's nothing wrong with you. But I think maybe, and don't get mad at me, I've said this to you before, you need to stop trying so hard.
annie		I still don't think I do that.
lillian		OK, so you had a first date last night. Did you bring him a present? Annie is silent.
annie		I brought him lemon-bars because I was making them anyway, as a friend. Yo're right, that's weird.
lillian		What?!
lillian		Ok, I don't know if it's because I'm tired or what, but I wanna kill him.
annie		Ok, just take a deep breath, look in the mirror and remember when I was getting my braces off and farted at the orthodontist. Lillian laughs.
lillian		Oh my God. We need to hang out. 'm coming to Milwaukee this weekend.
annie		Are you serious?
lillian		We'll go to Joni's and pig out and I'll bring some shitty magazines, and I'm gonna spend the night.
annie		God, I haven't seen you in months!
lillian		I'll call you tomorrow. Bye. They hang up. Dougie is in the doorway wearing her nightie stretched over his body.
dougie		Baby, I'm going through some changes...
lillian		 You're an idiot. We see she gets a kick out of him.
annie		Hi. Sorry, sorry! I'm here. I'm here.
donna		 Annie! Thank God. OK people! Gather around me please, in a tight semicircle. Annie and six other employees gather around DONNA.
sandy		Ooh, my horoscope said I would be presented with an opportunity at work today. That is eerie. That is eerie.
donna		Annie, that means you'll be alone in keepsakes. You think you can handle it?
annie		Sometimes there is, so....there have been. At times, there has been.
donna		Alright everybody, let's get to work! Saneel?!...OPEN SESAME! SANEEL, the security guard, rolls his eyes and unlocks the doors. Everyone goes to work. Donna gathers her things and starts walking towards the exit with Annie tailing behind her.
annie		Donna, can I talk to you for a second? I feel like if you gave me a shot at engagement rings sometime, I could really-
donna		Annie, what is the calibration of a 2 carat diamond in a standard English setting?
annie		Five?
donna		I just made all of that up. None of that was real. I just put words together. You're not ready for the big leagues. Understand?
annie		It's so hard to make commission over there.
donna		Sweetheart...did I ever tell you the story of the little paralyzed Chinese girl who wanted to be dancer?
annie		Many times.
donna		She was paralyzed Annie, had no feeling in her legs, and then one day after years of believing in herself, she stood up out of that chair and tap-danced for the king. On his birthday! My point is, Sandy makes a real effort around here. He connects with the customer. And when he wants to make a sale, he goes for it.
annie		Okay.  I do want it.
donna		 Good. Showing up on time is a wonderful place to start. Donna talks to herself and gathers her things.
annie		Hello, can I interest you in a sterling silver money clip that will create memories for you and your family? No? We cut to a HOME IMPROVEMENT SHOW on T.V.
steve		Noooo. That's, that's sooo smart. Annie enters the apartment, tired. She throws her keys down and sifts through her mail. Steve presses mute.
annie		Yes. I'm beat.
steve		Your ex-boyfriend got more mail, I did what you said and just threw it away.
annie		Thanks. Goodnight Steve! She shuts the door behind her.
steve		That credit lady called! She wants to talk to you, Annie! She's gonna find you. Steve sits back on the couch, un-mutes the T.V..
steve		Gross/Amazing.
annie		You're right. God, she's getting really skinny.
lillian		Ann.
annie		What?
lillian		 Your boyfriend just walked in. REVEAL: An orange-skinned BODY BUILDER with HUGE arms and legs in a tiny muscle tank and shorts.
annie		Oh my God! Look, he showed up with your mom. It's a short grey-haired OUTDOORSEY WOMAN in hiking boots. They laugh to themselves. Annie keeps reading.
lillian		Here Annie, let me turn the page for you.
annie		What? Lillian splays her hand over the magazine showing off a sparkling DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING.
lillian		 I just want to help you turn the page of your magazine for you...
annie		Lillian! What is that?!
lillian		I'm engaged.
annie		What?!!
lillian		He proposed at dinner last night. I wanted to tell you in person and show you this rock!
annie		It's beautiful. Lillian. Oh my God, this is...this is crazy!
lillian		I know Dougie and I have been fighting a lot, but I've been so stressed out with
annie		That's not I mean. I mean, I remember when we met him at Lake Mills. You lost your virginity to him right in front of me on the dock, remember?
lillian		Oh you want to get into who's done what down at the lake?
annie		No, I don't. It's just making me realize how long we've known each other.
lillian		Well then, who better to be my Maid of Honor?
annie		Oh my God! I don't know what to say!
lillian		Annie, you're my best friend. Honestly I didn't even have to think about it.
annie		Uh, wow. Yes! Of course! Yes! My God. I've never been in a wedding.
lillian		It's no big deal, and I don't want to make it one. It's not gonna be a big crazy thing. I wanna keep it simple.  What dessert are you gonna get?
annie		I know what you're doing. Don't downplay this. I'm happy for you. And someday when hell freezes over and I get married, you can be my Maid of Honor. But for right now, this is about you. OK? This is you're day, and it is a big deal.
lillian		Ok, but I still don't want this to be a huge production. I just want to have all my friends meet each other, have fun, dance, drink, whatever.
annie		Then that's what it'll be. Did you guys set a date?
lillian		Oh God, not yet. I don't want a super long engagement, but there's a lot to do.
annie		Well you are very fortunate because you happen have the best maid of honor in the whole wide world, and-- Lillian's cell phone rings, she looks at it and smiles.
lillian		 Can you hold that thought. I's my fiancee calling. Lillian gets up laughing. Annie laughs along with her.
annie		Ooo, haha... Annie continues laughing alone. She looks around the room as her smile disappears. She remembers...
young annie		Lillian Marie Donovan. Do you take your husband, forever, to be your husband? Lillian stands by a poster of Eric Estrada in his C.H.I.P.s uniform that is taped to a tree.
young lillian		I do. Do you Annie Lucille Walker, take your husband, forever? Reveal Annie standing next to a poster of John Baker from Chips.
annie		I do.
lillian		And now we will leave on our honeymoon to...
lillian		The madness has begun. Dougie's parents are having an engagement party for us next Friday.
annie		Awesome!...
annie		 Excuse me. A HOT ATHLETIC GUY with his golden retriever is reaching for a magazine. She can't thing of what to say. She
annie		Hello?
annie		Yes? It's HELEN  Lillian's bridesmaid and friend from the tennis Club. She's a tall leggy blond, all smiles. East coast pretty with a lot of cream cashmere turtleneck sweaters in her closet. She is sitting in a cream colored living room on a huge cream couch with lots of candles glowing.
helen		Hi.
annie		Hi.
helen		Hiiii! This is Helen. I'm one of Lillian's bridesmaids.
annie		Of course, Helen. Hi!
helen		Congratulations on being selected.
annie		Oh, thank you. Annie, reads #2. Expose your best asset. ASAP She panics, starts to elongate her right leg, points her toe, flexes her leg, flips her hair. He seems confused but politely smiles and goes back to his magazine.
helen		Annie?
annie		Sorry, yes. Hi!
helen		Maid of Honor!!
annie		Yeah. It is quite an honor.
helen		It's the number one spot. So how many times have you been in the B.P?
annie		I'm sorry, the what?
helen		Bridal Party?
annie		I've never even been in a wedding before.
helen		What!? I've never even heard of that.
annie		Um, well, it should be fun. Annie sees that the hot guy is leaving to pay for his magazine! She reads#5. Make a funny observational joke that pertains to HIM. (ya know, LIKE SEINFELD!!] Men LOVE
she		and the golden retriever meet eyes.
annie		Hey, you're dog's really cute.
man		Oh thanks.
annie		It's kinda funny right? That when girls are ugly, they're called dogs, but dogs are cute. Annie laughs. He half smiles but does not respond.
helen's voice		Hello?!
annie		Helen! Sorry. Yeah um, I'm really excited for all the wedding stuff and--
helen		YAY! OK, I will get your e-mail from Lilly with all of the other girls' information, and when you respond to any wedding related e-mails from now on, just remember to hit REPLY ALL. Did you know there are six of us?
annie		Yeah, Lillian told me last night. Awkward silence.
helen		Well, can't wait to meet you and hear what your planning for the bachelorette. Any ideas?
annie		Not yet. But they are coming, and I will fill you in--
helen		Oop! There goes my other line. See you Friday! She realizes there might some research to do for this bridal party' thing. She instead grabs two wedding magazines.
annie		Just these. Noticing a magazine by the register that reads (some bad
annie		Whoa. Email DING. She checks her inbox. 48 NEW MESSAGES. Bridesmaids!, So excited to meet you!, Wedding Bells!,Super fun!,Engagement party! Hotel Rates,Shoes,Shower themes Does anyone have...,Cute Favor Ideas,Fitness program,Lingerie? Special thoughts Poem suggestions? Invite list for shower Contact list for bachelorette Making memories French manicures? etc.
annie		He probably didn't see you, Mom.
judy		Oh, he saw me alright. He was married to me for fourteen years, he knows what I look like. I'm sure it was because BARB was there. You know how jealous she gets.
annie		Yeah, I'm sure that's it mom.
judy		Am I on speaker phone?
annie		Yeah.
judy		I don't know how to talk this way.
annie		Mom I'm running a little late so--
judy		Oh, the engagement party. Lillia's getting married, I can't believe how time flies. You're day will come dear. Give Lillian a kiss for me please, and tell Laurie and Ed I just could't afford the plane ticket, but I will be at the shower.
annie		I already told them, they understand.
judy		BARB could afford to come. Did you know what kind of car she drives now? A 2007 P.T. Cruiser. She looks ridiculous parading all around Fort Myers in that thing.
annie		Ok, Mom--
judy		I don't know how she gets in and out of that little car with those big legs.
annie		I should get going. I have long drive.
judy		Oh and honey, I picked you up a couple of things when I was at the Steinmart with Janice so look for a package in the mail.
annie		Mom I told you you don't have to send me--
judy		Oh stop. I love doing it. Ok? I love you sweetie.
annie		I love you too Mom. Bye. They hang up. Annie walks to the kitchen.
steve		Ooooh. You tryin to hook up tonight? A lot of people do at these wedding things you know so you have a good chance.
annie		Nevermind...
steve		I like the black tights with the black shoes, it's very elongating.
annie		Oh. Well, thank you.
steve		But I think you need more dark up top to balance it out, do have any black beads?
annie		(looking at herself] That's actually a good idea. She starts to leave but sees a guilty look and some frosting on Steve's face. She looks over at her saran- 's.
steve		Um......two.
annie		Ok, now really tell me the truth. How many did you eat?
steve		Four. Nine. They stare at each other.
annie		Shit! She pulls over. OFFICER RHODES approaches, chewing gum.
rhodes		Good afternoon ma'am, You in a hurry to get out of the city?
annie		No. Was I speeding?
rhodes		Is that even possible in this rig? He finds this funny, Annie does't.
annie		Ooooh. Yeah. Mine are out.
rhodes		Yeah, and you're headin' up Witches Curve. That's a risky move.
annie		I'm sorry. I usually only drive in the city and they've never pulled me over. To tell you the truth, those lights have been out for like a year.
rhodes		Whoa, whoa, whoa, easy hot-dogger. That is not something you wanna go broadcasting to a police officer. I might feel obligated to give you a yea's worth of tickets now.
annie		What? No.. I-
rhodes		You just admitted it.
annie		Can you do that?
rhodes		You admitted it.  Yeah, I can't do that though.
annie		Look, I'm really sorry. I promise I will get the lights fixed tomorrow morning. I'm kind of in a hurry. I'm going to my best friend's engagement party, I'm the Maid of honor and so I really -
rhodes		Oh, yeah. My little sister was just in a wedding. She lost some of her hair from the stress. Again, not funny.
annie		Am I getting a ticket? He searches for words. She's cute and he wants to keep her there. He keeps smiling. Awkward silence.
rhodes		Uh, yeah. That's what happens when you break the law. Um...license and registration.
annie		Here. He writes a ticket.
rhodes		 Ooo, I like that air freshener. Did you get that at the gas station?
annie		I don't remember.
rhodes		Smells like Christmas.  Yeah, it smells like Christmas. He rips the ticket off.
annie		Oh, Okay.
rhodes		Whoa, are those moon-pies?
annie		Oh yeah.
rhodes		 Oh, those are my favorite.
annie		What?
rhodes		Nothing.  Those are my favorite.
annie		Do you want one?
rhodes		No. It's too much trouble, they look all wrapped up. She doesn't get the hint. He really wants one.
laurie		Annie, sweetheart!
annie		Hi Mrs. Donovan! They hug.
laurie		Oh! And you brought your famous moonpies! Laurie takes the tray.
annie		I know, I'm so happy for her.
laurie		Well, clue me in. Is there anyone special in your life?
annie		Nope.
laurie		That's my girl.  Sleep around. I'm serious. Travel the world and try all the cuisine you can. You know what I mean by that, right? MARY, Laurie's friend, approaches.
mary		Laurie, where did you get that sweater? It is one-hundred percent out-of-sight!
laurie		Shhh, I got it at Glory Gay's.
mary		Ooooh. I can't even walk in there. The blouses alone make my wallet open.
laurie		It's worth it, though huh? Mary, I want you to meet Lillian's Maid of Honor.
mary		Oh, very special job.
laurie		This is Annie Walker. She lived next door to us in Milwaukee until the girls graduated from high school.
annie		Hi.
annie		Lil! It was nice meeting you Mary. Annie leaves.
mary		Oh my.
laurie		Poor Judy, never quite got over it. She also ended up moving to Florida to take care of her parents.
mary		Oh, that is tough. Well it's nice Annie and Lillian have stayed friends.
laurie		They're like sisters.
lillian		Hey!
annie		Hey! What's up? Where's Dougie?
lillian		Smoking a cigar with my dad. Le's go get a drink. They weave towards the bar.
dougie		Annie!!!
lillian		Hold on Dougie, we're getting drinks! They get to the bar and grab glasses of wine.
annie		This place is so fancy. Dougie's parents belong here?
lillian		Yeah. So does Dougie. This is the tennis club I've been playing at.
annie		Oh. Wow. I guess it's not what I pictured. Lucky you.
lillian		Tennis courts are tennis courts if you ask me. But I have met a lot of really cool people here. I can't wait for you to meet the girls.
annie		Oh! So where's this guy you were telling me about?
annie		That's ok.
dougie		There she is! Dougie picks Annie up and swings her around.
lillian		Dougie, be careful. God, you reek! He puts her down.
dougie		Annie, make sure when my fiance gets cold feet you tell her what a great guy I am. He grabs Lillian and kisses her on the cheek.
lillian		 Ugh. Wash your face. She gives in and kisses him. Then says to Annie..
annie		Leslie, hi! How are you guys?
leslie		Well, I just squeezed my third kid out last month and I feel like I'm walking around in a fat suit. She swigs beer out of a bottle.
paul		I keep telling her she looks great.  Oh, I'm sorry. Is this your boyfriend? A 30 YEAR OLD AVERAGE GUY with a neckbrace stands behind Annie. Paul goes to shake his hand. She stops him.
annie		No, no.  No. Annie meets DANA who is with her husband Ernie.
lillian		Annie this is Dana, we met here in my tennis class. Dana, Annie.
dana		Hi! Dana Shig. Its so nice to finally meet you Annie. I've heard so much about you. This is my husband Ernie. ERNIE has just put food in his mouth.
annie		Wow, that's beautiful. I never thought of it that way.
dana		This is all so amazing. I'm going to make a scrap book for Lillian. Dana takes her camera out then reaches out her hand.
annie		No, I don't know him. He's not with me. He's just passing by. I'm not here with anyone. BECCA stands very close to her husband KEVIN, a good looking stockbroker type.
becca		Lil! Is this Annie?! Annie and Lillian walk over.
lillian		Dougie's partner.
becca		So, are you so excited?! All of this reminds me so much of my wedding.
becca		Two months now! It was the best day of my life. I'm married now! It's like...I'm just better now! It might sound weird but... I feel legit. Just like, feminine. Look at my nails! Two beautifully french manicured hands with a HUGE 3 carat diamond ring.
man		The name's Captain Arnold Dubois. MEGAN is Dougie's sister. An ODDBALL. She looks like she might be at the wrong party. She is single and lovin' it!
megan		Annie! Hey! What's up?
annie		Megan! How are you?
megan		I just got pins in my leg! I fell off a cruise ship.
annie		Oh shit!
megan		Yeah. I was on a singles cruise. It was nighttime.
annie		Wow. Well, I'm glad you're OK.
megan		Listen Annie. You're single right? You and I are gonna scam on guys this whole time. You and I are gonna party and get naked with guys. This whole time Annie, no bailing. Lillian re-appears, grabs Annie.
lillian		Ann, there you are!
megan		Think about what I said Annie!
lillian		 There she is. In slow motion, a tall and gorgeous HELEN turns to us. She wears a tight, cream-colored, floor-length evening gown. Annie straightens her plastic beads.
helen		Hiii.
annie		Hi.
helen		Hiii. This is my husband Perry.
lillian		Perry owns Atmospheria candles.
annie		Oh, the Starbuck's of the candle world? Those are popping up on every corner. Which one do you own?
helen		All of them. It's the family business, his father started it.
annie		Oh, wow, that's pretty cule.
perry		Yeah, yeah. Currently we dominate the U.S. home illumination sector as a whole and six out of seven homes in upscale neighborhoods have one of our products, including the club.
annie		That is a lot.
helen		Perry donated a few for tonight. The room is all aflame.
annie		Yeah, I was just telling Lillian i's very elegant.
helen		So you live in Milwaukee?
annie		Yeah in the nice part. I work at Harrington's Jeweler's. I love it.
helen		I think I've heard of them.
annie		It's pretty well-known in the jewelry world. It's got like the biggest market for all the jewelry they sell and 'm actually gonna be getting a promotion
lillian		You are?
annie		Yeah, so I'm pretty excited about it. It's gonna be...pretty big. So, if you ever need a discount--
helen		You're funny. Listen Annie,I know you said you've never been in a wedding before so I just want you to know that we all have, especially me, so if you need any help, don't hesitate to ask.
annie		Thank you.
dean		So cheers to you two, our last single friends finally crossing over into the world of marital bliss, welcome to the other side! Dana snaps a photo, crying. Helen approaches the podium.
helen		Hello everyone. My name is Helen Harris the Third, an honored member of the bridal party. In honor of Lillian and Dougie, I'd like to take this opportunity to read a poem that I penned last summer while I was sitting on a swing at an exclusive resort in Santorini. Annie whispers to the person next to her.
annie		Am I supposed to give a speech? As Helen reads, Annie looks around the room and sees everyone in awe. Dana starts to cry. She reads from a fancy sheet of stationary.
helen		With every blink of an eye, every kiss of a lip, every stroke of a lovers hand, every...scent of a woman, every breath you take, every move you make. Love conquers all. Annie sees that Lillian is touched. Helen gets emotional.
annie		Um, hello everybody. Hi everyone. 'm Annie. Wow, it really smells like vanilla in here.
megan		It's the candles Annie.
annie		Thanks Megan. Lillian this is gonna be awesome. Um, uh, God, oh, oh, oh, what's that saying?
annie		Oh my God, tell me I didn't sing.
lillian		No, you sang. They both laugh.
annie		God, I don't know, I was just maybe a little out of my element, and after Helen's speech--
lillian		Ann, stop.
annie		I'm so embarrassed. What did you think of your engagement party?
lillian		Besides the impromptu concert from Bette Midler, it was perfect. They laugh and hug.
helen		Annie! Great job tonight..
annie		I'm feeling slightly mortified.
helen		No, nononono. Not at all. Everyone gets a little nervous and carried away during those kind of things. So listen, 've been brainstorming some theme ideas for Lillian's shower. I was thinking somewhere along the lines of Alice in Wonderland meets...are you ready? Hollywood. And for the bachelorette? Vegas.
annie		Aren't I supposed to be planning some of these things?
helen		Oh, well, I hadn't heard from you and--
annie		She just got engaged two weeks ago.
helen		Well, I figured since you don't have any experience that you might get overwhelmed by events of this caliber.
annie		Helen, I'm pretty capable. I think I can handle it. A guest walks by and taps Helen.
guest		Excuse me, you left your poem inside. You have beautiful cursive.
helen		Thank you. The guest says nothing to Annie and walks away.
woman		You're very pretty.
nail technician		Your nail too short for french manicure.
annie		 Oh well...
nail technician		That's Ok. I fix for you. Make you sexy.
annie		Oh, great!
donna		And then they put a solution in my eyes to dilate them, which caused temporary blindness and with the loss of my sight, my hearing became bionic. Do you need some help dear? Annie struggles to open a bag of chips but her new ULTRA LONG, french-manicured nail-tips are making it very hard.
annie		No, I got it.
annie		Sorry... Well, it's official. Lillian set a date. October tenth. Why did I just get a stomach ache.
donna		Don't be nervous. It's not all on your shoulders. Doesnt she have other bridesmaids?
annie		Yeah and they've all done this before so I'm feeling a little pressure. I have to make this really nice for Lillian.
donna		I wish I could help. Weddings are a lot different now then they were in my day. They look at Donna's wedding picture on her desk.
annie		That dress is beautiful.
donna		I still have it. I was hoping my daughter Elizabeth would wear it but when she and Alice had their ceremony they both wanted to wear suits.  Ok, we need two Shannisburg tennis bracelets. Annie struggles to write with her nails.
annie		Oops. Hold on a sec, hard to write...
donna		They're very long.
annie		Hi. I need to make these shorter.
nail technician		No, not sexy!
annie		I know, it's... I can't work with them so long.
nail technician		Okay. 7 dollar for file. No more sexy though.
annie		Ok.
nail technician		Short nail is ugly.
annie		Alright.
annie		Here it is!
helen		Ooh, Occasionz. I'm impressed.
annie		Everyone this is Occasionz, supposedly it's you know, one of the best bridal shops in town, so, that's cool. Oh and also, there's a restaurant inside, so um, I figured, we could maybe have lunch after. So, let's go! She goes to the door. It is locked. She sees a buzzer.
annie		Hi, we're hear to see some bridesmaids dresses.
annie		Oh, Annie.
annie		 No, we're here to look at dresses.
becca		 You didn't make a reservation?
annie		Um, no, I'm sorry, I didn't know I had to make a reservation for that. Sorry! Anyway, we're all out here now and--
annie		Seven weeks?!
annie		What?
dana		 You didn't make an appointment?
annie		No, I can hear you. Would it be possible for you to make an exception for us because we drove all the way out here and I didn't know about the reservation/ appointment thing so...
lillian		Annie, we can go somewhere else.
annie		No, no. I'll work it out. Don't worry.
becca		This really is the best place though, that's the thing.
helen		Listen, I know the--
whitney		(intercom] Hello, this is the manager?
annie		Yes, hello!
whitney		We can fit you in seven weeks, that is all we have available. We only take parties that have a reservation and that have made an appointment over the phone. I'm going to ask you to not buzz in again. Thank you. Byyyyyyye. Helen approaches the intercom.
helen		Whitney?
whitney		 Yes? Who is this?
helen		Whit, it's Helen.
whitney		Helen?! Hiiii!
helen		Hiiii!
whitney		Hi!
helen		Hi! Listen, I'm out here with a whole bunch of girls and we had a little miscommunication and our reservation- appointment wasn't made. Is there any way to fit us in?
whitney		Say no more. Buzzzzzzzz. The girls happily enter.
lillian		(sotto} Wow, thanks Helen.
lillian		Ann, don't worry about it. We got in. Annie sees racks of wedding dresses.
annie		Hey, you want to sneak off and look at the wedding dresses?
lillian		Oh my God. Annie, I didn't tell you? Guess who Helen is friends with? Lady Lavonia Jean St. Petsois JuJu.
annie		Wow. That's amazing.
lillian		Surprise, surprise. It's my Mom. Mom? Can you hold on a second? She covers the phone and talks to the girls.
helen		Ok ladies, start your  engines! Shots of dresses being pulled off of the racks. Fighting for the same dress, shirts coming off, dresses zipped up the back and dresses not fitting, etc.
annie		Hi I'm Annie. Can I get a martini? What you mean you need to see I.D.? 
bartender		Well, with that dress on you look about... .eleven.
annie		Thank you. Annie laughs. And turns away right into, a GORGEOUS male model in a tuxedo.
underwear model		I'll get it for her.
annie		Hi.
christian bale		Hi. I'm Christian Bale. I'm just chopping some wood, I like to do that between movies.
annie		Hello Christian. They hear the voices of the men from the party screaming for her.
christian bale		Quick, get inside my muscles. They embrace.
helen		Hi Annie!
helen		Look at your cute little boobies. Ooh, is that the dress you like?
annie		Yeah. I think it will look good on everybody, it has a sash--
helen		A sash? Annie, this isn't the Sound of Music tryouts.
annie		Huh?
dana		Because, I--
leslie		Why don't you two shut your traps? No one's going to be looking at us. Le's just get the one with the shawl, 'm always freezing at these things anyway.
megan		I gotta say I'm still leaning towards the one that I found. It is a very ugly.
leslie		Absolutely not.
annie		Well, what about this one? Everybody stops and looks at Annie.
helen		Everyone! We can't all have the dress that we want. I've been in a lot of weddings and when choosing a bridesmaid dress, you must ask yourself, If invited, would I wear this a dress to...The ACADEMY AWARDS!
dana		Ooo, I never thought of it that way. All the girls agree.
helen		With that in mind, I say we wear this one. Helen holds up a dress. The girls like it.
annie		Or this one! People wear sashes to the Academy Awards all the time.
helen		Only if they're nominated for the Sound of Music.
annie		I think Lillian would like this one.
helen		Well, I think Lillian would like THIS one. Lillian walks in.
lillian		Hey! I'm hearing lots of excitement in here. She touches Helen's dress.
helen		I love it. Right guys? The girls all agree. Except Annie.
lillian		Cool. Let's eat! Helen dumps the dress in Annie's arms and follows Lillian.
helen		I think it might look best in cream.
lillian		Ooh, good idea. They exit.
leslie		Well, that was easy. The girls head back to change.
annie		This dress is almost $500!
annie		No, that's what I'm saying. That's a great price.
lillian		This place is kind of amazing. I did't even know it existed.
becca		The southwestern cobb is really good. I come here and eat sometimes.
megan		Great, there's a fly that really likes me.
annie		They only have salads.
dana		So Annie, what's your deal? Are you dating anyone?
annie		No, no. Not right now. I had a boyfriend for three years but we broke up like six months ago.
becca		Oh, I hate to hear stuff like that! What happened?
annie		It just didn't work out.
helen		Is that the guy who stole a bunch of money from you and gave you an STD? Everyone freezes.
lillian		I'm sorry, I was just talking about you cause I was worried about you and--
annie		No it's fine. But he didn't steal the money, I loaned it to him. And HPV is really common right now. Everyone looks around.
leslie		Really?
annie		About 6.2 million new cases of HPV affect Americans each year.
megan		Ew, it's on the butter you guys. The fly's on the butter.
helen		Well, I don't have it.
annie		Very few HPV infections show any signs or symptoms. Therefore a lot of infected people don't even know they have it, yet they transmit the virus to their sexual partner. Silent. Everyone is a little grossed out..
helen		Do you have anyone in mind to bring to the wedding?
annie		Oh, I didn't even think about that.
leslie		Who needs a date? Just go stag and make out with someone there.
dana		If you wanna meet a nice man, Annie, you should come to karaoke night at my church. We sing hymns to rock beats!
becca		Wait. I have the perfect guy for you Annie. Mike Donahue. He went to school with Kevin.
lillian		Mike from the fourth of July last year? Ooh, I've seen him Ann. He's hot.
annie		Really?
becca		And Kevin said he just sold his company for an embarrassing amount of money. But he's totally down to earth. You guys have to meet. I'm texting Kevin right now.
helen		I know Mike too. Megan is digging a dead fly out of the butter.
megan		The fly just committed suicide. Death by butter.
dana		Oh my gosh, if you guys got married you could live out here and see us all the time!
leslie		Yeah, and then pop out a couple kids, sit around and talk about nothing while your vagina flaps in the wind like a wet paper towel.
helen		 Oooh, I didn't know we were going to hear that word at lunch today.
dana		I was set up with Ernie. As soon as I met him, I knew.
lillian		Yeah Annie, you never know.
annie		Yes.
annie		What?! Come on! She pulls over. Officer Rhodes approaches.
rhodes		Well, look who it is.
annie		Oh hi.
rhodes		I see your still driving around with busted tail lights.
annie		I'm sorry, money's been tight and...I forgot. You're not gonna give me another ticket for that are you?
rhodes		Nah... The reason I pulled you over today, is that-- you were driving too slow. Backing up traffic.
annie		I was?
rhodes		Yep. You were going ten miles under the speed limit. That's a moving violation. It's...underdriving. It's in the books. But, I'm just going to give you a warning this time, but I do have to um...write some stuff down on a piece of paper. He begins to write. Beat.
annie		Yeah.
rhodes		Cayenne pepper water for three days now. It's supposed to clean you out, make you feel lighter. It's working. The only problem is I get so hungry. I just want a big slab of ribs. You ever crave that kind of stuff?
annie		Don't talk about cravings right now. I am PMS'ing like crazy. It's taking everything in me not to stop and the store and get like three kit-kats and a bottle of wine. I'm so irritable right now. They stare at each other out of awkwardness.
rhodes		No, it's OK, I've got three sisters. We had tampons in the pencil drawer. Sometimes my friends and I would say they were cigars and smoke'em.  Okay. I have finished writing down the things I need to write, on this paper. OH! He hands her a business card.
annie		Thanks.
rhodes		That's my name right there. In case you forgot it from last time. It's Nathan Rhodes.
annie		Thanks. Annie. I'll get those fixed. I get paid next week. Bye! She drives off. Rhodes wishes he had been more suave.
annie		Trust me, I've been in the jewelry business for a long time. Nothing says I'm sorry for your loss' like a sterling silver money clip. An OLD WOMAN CUSTOMER looks at her stone-faced.
sandy		Paychecks. Here you go Annie. She and Sandy open their checks.
annie		I'm gonna pay for a cream-colored gown that I'll never wear again.
annie		Help me! I can't find anything to wear for my date with Mike tonight.
lillian		I don't know. Shoot, I can't talk now. I'm with Helen and we have a conference call with Lady Lavonia Jean St. Petsois JuJu about my dress. Ugh. I'm so sorry. She's calling! I gotta go. Have fun! Lillian hangs up. Steve walks in.
steve		That credit lady called you again. I told her you were at the tailors.
annie		Listen, I'm going on a date. This? 
steve		I don't like those pants.
annie		What's wrong with'em?
steve		They give you four corners. Annie's not following.
annie		Shit. These are my only clean pants.
steve		Do you have a tube skirt?
annie		Thanks Steve.
steve		Wait. If you stand like you are right now facing that angle, it looks good. She looks in the mirror again, grabs her bag and leaves.
annie		I'm not an expert in corporate real- estate but I've always been interested in it. So, yeah I totally agree. Mike smiles, he is cute!
mike		I have to admit, I told Becca 'm not really keen on set-ups. I know i's early, but so far so good.
annie		Me too.
mike		And thanks again for coming from Milwaukee, I know it's quite a drive.
annie		I can do that drive in my sleep these days.
mike		Next time maybe I'll come to you. Annie smiles.
annie		Thank you. I brush'em every day. She flashes her teeth. The hostess comes up.
hostess		Your tables ready.
mike		Finally! Mike guzzles down his cocktail as they read their menus.
annie		So, Becca tells me you play a lot of tennis.
mike		I try to squeeze in a game now and then. We should play sometime.
annie		Oh, yeah I haven't rea--
waiter		Here ya go. I'll be back to take your order in two secs. I'm swamped!
annie		No problem.
mike		Whoa, get a load of our waiter. 'm surprised he didn't put pink umbrellas in our drinks... Annie laughs, but is a little uncomfortable.
annie		No.
mike		 Neither do I... He raises his eyebrows up and down at her.
annie		Hey, it's me, I just had to tell you about my night. Oh my God. Call me.
rhodes		Annie Walker. I thought I heard your car out there.
annie		Very funny, Officer...Jones?
rhodes		Jones? Oh boy. Guess somebody thought he was a little more memorable than he was.
annie		No. Sorry. I'm a little out of it. I'm not drunk.
rhodes		That's ok. Call me Rhodes.  Trying to get calm?
annie		Yeah. Recovering from a date.
rhodes		Oh.
annie		Finish your cleanse?
rhodes		Yeah, trying to wean myself back to the really bad foods I like eating.
annie		Thanks for the drink.  So are you one of those cops that sits in that same spot everyday and sneaks up on people?
rhodes		A lot of people get up to high speeds on this road. I tell people its better to pay for a ticket than have your family pay for a funeral.
annie		That's a very good point.
officer rhodes		Want a carrot?
annie		Yes. I'm starving.
rhodes		Oh, you got the ugly carrot.
annie		The what?
rhodes		There's one in every bag. You should eat it.
annie		No. I think you should eat it. The're your carrots. He goes to eat it. She grabs it out of his hands.
rhodes		Don't litter. He picks it up.
annie		I don't think I've ever wanted to get of out a restaurant faster in my life.
rhodes		Yeah, I don't go on blind dates. It seems unnatural.
annie		I have no idea what am I going to tell my friends who set us up.
rhodes		Just tell her the truth.
annie		Yeah. You're probably right. Now Rhodes and Annie are driving in his police car.
rhodes		You know my dad used to say that life is like a hallway of doors. You can stand at the same door forever if you want. Or you can open a different door. And that one may not be the right door, but i'll open up a whole new hallway of doors. Anyway, it worked for me. I was kinda lost and I opened a door and the next thing I knew I was a cop. And I love my job.
annie		Hmm. I think I get it?
rhodes		Or you can always sell moon-pies by the side of the road.
annie		Moonpies. What?
rhodes		It's a joke. You had moon-pies in your car the first time I pulled you over.
annie		Oh yeah.
officer rhodes		When I get married I don't want the kind of wedding people have these days. I want it to be like a carnival. You know dunk tanks? People win prizes...
annie		Yeah, and you can have elephants, trapeze artists and a big scale to guess the bride's weight.
officer rhodes		Ok, first of all that's a circus wedding and I'm talking about a carnival wedding.
annie		Sorry.  Yeah I'll have the number four, and can you make that Super Biggie?
officer rhodes		And then she moved to Hawaii and now lives with a guy who sells shaved ice. And supposedly she has really long armpit hair now. That's pretty much the last girlfriend I had.
annie		Well, lets just say my last boyfriend that I lived with broke up with me over the phone. Then come to find out, he had borrowed $30,000 in my name without telling me, putting me in horrible debt that I'm still paying off. Because I can't find him.
officer rhodes		Wow. You win.
annie		Oh my gosh. It's twelve thirty! I should probably...
rhodes		Oh, before you go. There is something I want to give you. I was gonna wait but, I think you'll want this now. He jokingly gives her the ugly carrot.
annie		For me?!
officer rhodes		Well I know you've had a terrible night. He gives it to her. Her phone rings.
annie		Sorry, one sec. Hello? Ted!? Hey! Oh my gosh! No,no. Can you hold on a sec? She waves at Rhodes and mouths...
rhodes		Yeah. Don't forget about those taillights. They're really starting to bug me.
annie		K. Bye. So, you're in town?
ted		Next time I won't call so late.
annie		No, it was fine. Like I said, I mean I was just driving.
ted		Awesome. It's cool that we can just hookup and whatever. No strings.
annie		Me too. I love it. I feel good right now.
ted		Cool. Bye.
annie		Shit!! No! No! I left my fucking credit card at the restaurant! Shit! She picks up her phone and dials.
helen		Annie, hi! I almost left, but they said that you were coming and that you were late. Helen is standing there looking gorgeous.
annie		Hi!
helen		And as the leader of the bridesmaids, I thought it'd be fun to pick up some little gifts for all the girls.
annie		Leader of the bridesmaids? Um, wouldn't that technically be me? Honor?
helen		Well, no, sweetie, you're the Maid of Honor, and we're all bridesmaids, and out of all of us, I'm the leader. Anyway, it doesn't matter. Um, I wanted to get something that we could wear to the rehearsal dinner or something. That would be fun. Where are the diamonds?
annie		Oh, well, what about a nice pen..or a tortoise-shell handled sterling silver letter opener? No? Ok, let me get Sandy.
helen		Oh! And Annie we really need to start planning the bachelorette.
annie		Yes. Yes. I'm on it. Got some ideas. So I'll let you know.
helen		Can't wait.
tv host		Wow, well I have never seen a transformation like this. This old tour bus is stunning.
steve		Unbelievable.  You got another package from your mom.
annie		Hey thanks for saving my butt today. Like I said I'll pay you back as soon as I can. She opens the package. And pulls out a red blazer.
steve		No problem. But you should always put gas in when it gets to a quarter tank. Especially cause you have such a shitty car.
annie		Thanks. Can I ask you a question? What do you think of Vegas?
steve		Ooo. Let me turn this off. Vegas is a black hole but I must have it in my life. Does that make sense?
annie		I'm just asking because some of the girls are talking about going for Lillia's bachelorette party and I've never been.
steve		Oh no. Now I don't know about weddings. When you go on a bachelorette, does the bride pay?
annie		No, everyone pays for themselves. And you pay for the bride.
steve		Ok, I'm gonna say no. You cannot afford that. Vegas is not cheap. Airfare, hotels, food, cars, drinks, clubs, show tickets. Remember this morning? You cannot afford Vegas.
annie		Well, I could save up for it.
steve		No, you need to win a contest to go to Vegas/You had gum for lunch yesterday. Ooh, Night Moves. Can I have this? A lightbulb goes off in Annie's head. Steve holds the blazer out and reads the tag.
annie		Told you I'd pay you back! Annie runs into her room. She sits down at the computer and begins typing feverishly. We see these words: Dear bridal party, great idea, bachelorette party, Florida, Sea World!, Free place to stay!. She presses send, and is very pleased. The phone immediately rings.
helen		Hi.
annie		Hi.
helen		Hiiiii.
annie		Hi Helen. Helen is dressed in cream under a cream blanket. All around her is a ridiculous amount of white glowing candles. There are too many flames.
helen		I just got your e-mail. Um...Sea World?
annie		Well it's not just Sea World. It's a weekend in Florida. See, when Lillian and I were kids we went there and she loved it and has always talked about going back. Ask Dougie. I think it would really mean a lot to her. We could stay at my Dad's house, he won't even be there. Then we could go out at night and got to the beach and then Sea World on one of the days.
helen		But a bachelorette at Sea World?
annie		Like I said, Sea World would just be a part of it.
helen		Well, I have been talking to the other girls, and I was thinking we should go to Las Vegas! Annie's other line rings.
annie		Oh, can you hold on? That's my other line. She clicks over.
becca		Hi, Annie. It's Becca. Becca, in her shabby-chic home office paints a front porch sign that says The Whitman's
annie		Oh well, Turkey's really far away.
becca		It's super old though! They have awesome restaurants. It's very exotic. Have you ever seen Aladdin? It totally looks like that.
annie		Hang on... Annie clicks back over to Helen.
helen		When?
annie		Just a few minutes. I'll call you back. Annie clicks over.
becca		Hi. You know, if you wanna go some place closer than Turkey. Helen JUST e-mailed me about going to Vegas.
annie		Oh, I don't know. Everybody always goes to Vegas. It seems just cliche to me.
becca		I never get sick of it. I love blackjack. I have a system. Annie's other line.
annie		Oh, my other line's ringing. Can I call you back?
becca		When?
annie		Soon. Annie clicks over.
dana		Annie, it's Dana!
annie		Of course it is.. Dana is on her porch swing drinking lemonade.
dana		I love your idea about Sea World.
annie		Really?
dana		Yeah, but then Helen just called me and said we should go to Vegas.
annie		But Vegas is so hot, don't you think? It's like, hot and dry. People get sick there all the time.
dana		I haven't had that experience. My skin always clears up there.
annie		Yeah, I just think it's probably not-- Hold on.  Hello?
megan		Annie, it's Megan. Megan is at work, in front of a wall of computer and television screens. It is a technical haven, looks like
annie		 No. Leslie in her Sopranos style living room on a treadmill. Her kids run around.
leslie		I gotta be honest. I've been married for nine years, this may be the last bachelorette party of my career and I want the sweaty nuggets of a gay man pounding me in the face at some point during this trip. I'll pay whatever I have to pay.  Tyler stop it, put that back! Paul!
becca		Vegas has these party busses that have flat screens in them and dance floors--
dana		Or we could take hummer limos around everywhere.
annie		That sounds really expensive.
helen		Oh but it's gonna be so much fun! Besides money shouldn't be a problem if Lillian's our friend.
annie		Oh no, no, I was just thinking about everyone else. That's all I'm saying.
megan		What I'm saying is, they drop you off in the middle of the desert. You have to kill your own food and find your way back. Not everyone makes it. Seriously.
leslie		Seriously. I want balls in my face.
becca		So I think Vegas is a good idea.
dana		I agree with Helen. Vegas.
megan		Oh, you know what else is in Nevada? Vegas!
leslie		Balls. Vegas.
helen		Vegas it is.
lillian		 Holy Shit Annie! We're goin' to Vegas!
sandy		 No can do, I need all my shifts. 'm trying to save up and take my lady to Maui.
annie		Please, one day a week, just for a little while. I've already asked everybody else. I really need the money.
sandy		Sorry. My hands are tied. Sharita's got my dick in a chip-clip.
annie		That's alright. I understand.
sandy		Mmm. Mm. These are the best peanut butter titties you ever made.
annie		They're called peanut butter kisses.
sandy		That's not what they look like.
megan		Here we are. The city of lust. Annie, do you know how many men are looking for trouble in this town right now? We are gonna nail it down. We should tell everybody we're twins cause guys looking up with twins!
annie		Yeah, I've heard that. Ok everybody! You guys, hey we're here, we're in Vegas! Woo! Lillian walks up.
lillian		Annie, come here. Why didn't you tell me you weren't sitting with us?
annie		Oh, it's no big deal. I didn't want to blow all my money on a first class ticket. I'm here though, right?!
lillian		I'm so excited!
annie		Ok, you guys, gather around. Welcome to Lillian's bachelorette party! We should probably get a bunch of cabs and head to our beautiful hotel, The New Marquis Royal Suites... As Annie's talking, a limo pulls up behind her. The New Marquis Royal Suites.
helen		Lillian, look what's happening.
lillian		Oh my God. You guys, is this for us?!
helen		I got a limo from the hotel. We're in Vegas! Yaaaay!! They all pile into the limo, excitedly talking.
annie		Ok, everyone just get in the car. Got a ride to the hotel. It's taken care of.
megan		 Sit by me, Annie!
lillian		This hotel is amazing! You guys!
helen		Come on Lillian, you're staying with me in the master suite. It's all set.
lillian		Oh! Okay! Then party in room 812 in one hour! 
annie		Uh! Shoot! I left my sunglasses downstairs. Ugh! Where's my head?
annie		Hi, I have a reservation for Walker. RICK, an East Indian man, stands behind the desk in front of a large portrait of himself, posed exactly as he is now, with the same outfit. He holds the pose, smiling.
rick		Okay, two nights?
annie		Yes. Rick waits for her to notice the painting, but she never does.
rick		Do you want towels?
annie		Yes.
rick		Do you need sheets?
annie		Yes.
rick		No pillow though, ok? Annie just stares at him.
annie		Oh my God.
megan		Oh my gosh, I can't believe this.
leslie		He-llo Vegas!
annie		Hello cat.
becca		Oooh, Annie's here!
bridesmaids		Wooooooh!
becca		Isn't this amazing? Lillian runs over and hugs Annie, wearing a condom veil and drinking out of a penis straw.
lillian		Annie! I wanna see a drink in your hand in one minute! Lillian pulls Annie into the room. Helen is getting off of the phone.
helen		Ok you guys, change of plans. The Velour Cobra had an opening at 9 so I got us a dinner reservation. Isn't that radical?
everyone		Woohooo/Ooooh/Alright!
annie		Oh. Yeah. Cool. Alright Everyone raises their glasses. The night has begun.
annie		Okay, mine was...great, got it. Becca scoots in next to her.
becca		Annie, I didn't get a chance to ask you, how was your date with Mike? Give me all the details.
annie		Oh, um, we had dinner.
becca		Do you think you'll go out with him again? He told Kevin he thought you were really great and hot.
leslie		 Hey wha's the damage down there?
annie		Oh, I got it right here, I figured out what I owe so, should I just pass it around?
annie		Yeah, it's probably just easier...just split it.
megan		Here, let me see it. Ok.. .It's a hundred each plus tip.
annie		 I had soup and ice water.
megan		Plus we're paying for Lillian...everyone
annie		 No alcohol...or any real food.
becca		It'll all even out by the end of the night.
annie		How does it even out? How does that happen? Everyone, including Annie, puts in their money. Helen moves over to Annie.
lillian		Thank you everybody!!
helen		Annie, don't tell Lillian, it's a surprise.
annie		Really?!
helen		I think it should be our first stop. H's reserving seats for us in the VIP section. It's a $150 cover and there's a one bottle champagne minimum of $750 per table, he said people from the Real World go in there all the time.
annie		I thought we were going to the Jungle Lounge after this.
helen		We are. After that.
annie		Oh...um...wow. Awesome. Here's the thing I was going to stop by the hotel, the Marquis Suites. I think I ate something weird on the plane probably, my stomac's not right.
helen		Oh, well we're only gonna be there for an hour or so, you can just meet up with us after.
annie		Okay. Perfect.
helen		I'll just text you when we're getting ready to leave. I hope you feel better. Lillian comes up already a little tipsy.
lillian		Ok, Leslie spilled the beans. Le's get our asses over to Sacrifice. What are we waiting for? Wooooooo! Lillian looks at Helen's legs.
helen		Don't tell Perry I bought them,I ordered them from New York. They're insanely expensive. But I gotta tell you guys the compliments I get on my ass make them worth every penny. She sticks her butt out. Lillian slaps it and all the girls laugh. She is the life of the party.
lillian		Oh my God, Annie our song! Wher's Annie?
dana		What?!
lillian		Where's Annie?!
megan		I don't know! Where's Annie!
helen		What?!!
dana		Where's Annie!
helen		She's meeting us later!!!
dana		 Oh. She's meeting us there!
lillian		Why!?
becca		I don't know! Why?
helen		Annie HAS DIARRHEA!!
lillian		Is she okay?! Should I call her!?
helen		She's fine! She's gonna meet us in an hour, it's all set! (to the other girls]
dave		No, no, no wait. Wait.  Hey, will you roll for me? Can she roll for me?
craps guy		Only if she's playing.
annie		Me? What do I have to roll?
dave		Anything but a seven or eleven, as many times as you can. What's your name?
annie		Annie.
dave		I'm Dave. This is Brian, Brian and Mark. Ok Annie, do your thing. Annie rolls a four. The guys all cheer.
guys		Yeah! Four! Annie rolls again, another four. She laughs.
annie		Four! Ahhhhhhhhh! 
guys		Annie! Annie! Annie! Annie gets a text message.
annie		Oh, hold on. You guys, my phone.
craps guy		No cell phones at the tables m'am. Its a casino rule.
annie		I'll go outside then.
craps guy		No, you gotta play the game out. You have to finish your roll. She continues to roll all fours. The guys scream.
annie		Ok, guys put me down, put me down. Whoa, that's my breast.
annie		It was nice meeting you guys. I gotta go.
dave		What do you mean? Where are you going?
annie		I'm here with a bunch of friends and 'm supposed to meet them at this club.
mark		We love clubs! We'll come with you.
dave		Come on, we'll get your cab.
annie		Oh, Ok. As the cab drives away, we hear:
annie		You guys almost done?
brian 2		Sorry we haven't eaten all day.
matt		I have NEVER seen a drive-thru line like that dude.
cab driver		It's because of the concert. They continue eating.
annie		How much further?
cab driver		Do you think I know? How do you think I know?
dave		Oh, shit. We can't go into this place. We got kicked out last night.
bouncer		Hey, what'd I tell you guys?!!!
guys		Whoa, it's ok, we're just goin next door!
dave		Oh, Annie, here's your cut of the craps money. Eight hundred bones.
annie		For me?
dave		You won big for us tonight. Buy your friends a round of drinks and come next door after.
brian 2		Yeah, bring your friends.
annie		Bye guys.
dave		The Roller!!!
guys		Woohoo/Yeah/ The Roller!/Annie! They all high five. Annie turns to bouncer.
annie		Hi. One please?
bouncer		60 bucks.
annie		Here ya go.
lillian		Annie!
annie		Hello!?
lillian		Are you ok?
annie		Yeah, I'm fine. I'm here! Where are you?!
lillian		What do you mean here, where?
annie		I'm at the Jungle Lounge, where are you guys? This place is huge!
lillian		You're where?
annie		The club!
lillian		Listen I can't hear you! We had to leave the Jungle Lounge, Becca--
annie		What?!
lillian		Meet us at the--
annie		Hello?!!
guys		Yeah, she's back/ the Roller!/ Yeah!
dave		What happened to you?
annie		I don't even know.
dave		Roller, I can't stand seeing you like this. (to bartender] Get this fine lady a shot!
annie		I'll have two lemon drops.
annie		That's what I'm saying. Some people have everything and others have just little bits of things. It's not fair. I don't get it.....I mean I think I hate Helen.
dave		I hate Helen.
annie		That is the sexiest think anyon's ever said.
dave		I hate Helen.
dave		Hey.
annie		Hi. Sorry I fell asleep while we were making out. I guess I was pretty tired.
dave		Its ok. Sorry I gave you a hickey.
annie		Oh shit. There's a knock at the door. Annie opens it to reveal NICOLE, , pretty and sweet.
nicole		Is Dave here?
dave		Nicole!? Hey, Nic.
nicole		This is a surprise.
brian 1		Dude, I'm sorry. She made us bring her here.
mark		She said you have her fake I.D..
nicole		Yeah and I couldn't go anywhere last night. I tried calling you fifty fucking times. And YOU? You were what, hooking up with this fossil?!
annie		First of all-
nicole		Shut the fuck up or I will kick your ass bitch.
annie		Ok, that is not nice.
nicole		And what are you forty?
annie		No, I'm in my low thirties... and you could never kick my ass.
nicole		What did you say?!
annie		 You heard me. Annie immediately gets punched in the face. Annie is shocked and swings back, hitting Nicole in the face. She's proud of herself. Nicole's two friends enter and jump on Annie. HUGE GIRL FIGHT.
nicole		Baker Community College bitch!
megan		Annie!
lillian		Whoa. What are you, going to a rodeo?
annie		That's hilarious.
megan		Annie, you missed it. I scammed all night last night. I met this guy named Darwin. He works for Cingular. He had a friend.
leslie		What happened to your face?
lillian		Yeah, why are you wearing all that makeup?
annie		It's covering up bruises, cuts and a hickey. I got into fight with a community college student and her friends because I spent the night with her boyfriend after spending the entire night trying to find you.
lillian		What?!
annie		Forget it.
lillian		I was trying to find YOU. I tried to call you all night!
annie		Well, I-(to Lil} Can I talk to you for a minute? Annie takes Lillian away.
lillian		What is going on? You told Helen you were sick.
annie		I wasn't sick. Helen told you that because... I couldn't afford to go with you guys.
lillian		Why didn't you say something?--
annie		Helen, can you just give us a minute?
helen		I'm just saying, we're gonna be late. I don't wanna be rude.
annie		That's funny. You know what? As the Maid of honor, which is what I am and what you are not, I am asking you to just give us a minute.
helen		Excuse me Annie.
annie		No, excuse me!
lillian		Annie take it easy.
annie		I need to take it easy?
dana		Annie, if it makes you feel any better (getting emotional] I got slapped last night.
leslie		Here we go...
dana		By this huge girl. She was a working in the bathroom. I just... I didn't cut in line. I didn't! She chased me!
becca		Becca it's over.
megan		Annie, she looked like Popeye.
becca		She lives here! She lives in Vegas.
helen		You're not going to run into her. Just shut-up about it.
lillian		Guys stop! Please! Annie, I'm so sorry about last night. I feel horrible. I want to hear everything that happened. Tonight, you're not leaving my side. We're hittin' the strip club all of us and we're going to put this shit behind us. Okay?! The girls agree. Dana rubs her arm.
leslie		Oh your arm does not still hurt.
cocktailer		What can I get you ladies?
annie		First of all , we're gonna need some ones over here. Here's a hundred. Keep twenty for yourself.
lillian		Oooh, Ann! A siren goes off.
megan		Leslie, your missing it.
leslie		Don't talk to me. Nobody talk to me. Leslie has her hands on the bare ass of a stripper who is dancing in her face. Stripper #2 appears.
lillian		 Get her! Get her!!
annie		I need some gum.
becca		That was disgusting! I'm so glad I'm married.
megan		It was awesome!
dana		I got a picture of the balls. I got it!
leslie		. You lucky bitch.
lillian		Only you Annie. Hands down, best moment of the weekend. Annie finally feels a part of the group.
lillian		Oh look, there's your boyfriend.
helen		Ew, he's like 65. Ok, look Lillian that's you.
lillian		Oh my God. You know who that actually looks like? Remember when we went to Miami and we had to rent towels--
helen		Ew, at that beach, that weird beach!
lillian		And that lady came up to us wearing that mesh top!
helen		She was crazy. Annie sinks. A flight attendant appears.
flight attendant		Excuse me. Hi.
annie		Hi.
flight attendant		I'm sorry, you can't be up here. You have to go back to coach.
annie		I was just stretching my legs.
flight attendant		That's not true. Annie stares at her. The flight attendant holds out her hand for Annie to grab.
attendant		Ok, that's going to be seventy -five dollars.
annie		What?
attendant		Twenty-five dollars a day. Three days. Seventy -five dollars.
annie		I thought it was seven.
attendant		Oh, hmm mm. That's for this lot, you parked in this lot. The lots are exactly the same, separated by a white line. Annie empties her wallet, her poker winnings are gone.
rhodes		Oh, I know what's going on. You're jealous of that Helen girl.
annie		Excuse me? No, I'm not.
rhodes		If you say so.
annie		I'm telling you I am not jealous of Helen, okay? She's tall and thin and rich and pretty. They both laugh.
rhodes		Oh come on, you know you got it goin' on...
annie		Oh yeah, I got it goin' on...
rhodes		You're right, you don't.
annie		 Thanks a lot. They nudge each other. He accidentally nudges her off the car.
rhodes		Sorry! Now Annie is back in her running car.
annie		Have a good rest of your shift.
rhodes		Actually, I'm heading home. Got my sister staying with me for a few days. Sh's been thinking of divorcing of her husband.
annie		Oh. Sorry.
rhodes		He had an affair and they've got kids so it's complicated.
annie		Hmm. Sounds familiar.
rhodes		My sister is a hell of a woman, you know? And her husband is- you know what I think cheating is? It's weak. It's a weak person that cheats. Something clicks with Annie, she sees him in a new light.
annie		No, no. Um, I feel the same way. Um, anyway um, maybe I'll drive by you next week. I have to make this drive again...so... She tries to flirt a little, pulls her hair back. He sees her hickey!!!! She starts itching her arm, still flirting and laughing.
rhodes		Yeah. I should go..now. Don't forget to call my friend about those tail lights. They're really starting to bug me.
annie		I promise. Ok, well, have a good weekend.
rhodes		You too. He abruptly walks back to his car. She drives away confused.
doctor		Well, I've got good news for you. You're going to live. Hahahah. It's not an allergic reaction though.
annie		Oh, that's good.
doctor		You've got body lice.
annie		Oh.
doctor		Have you recently come in contact with or slept anywhere that you think you might
annie		I know where I got it.
doctor		You're gonna have to wash every fabric in your apartment and I'll give you a topical cream that should knock it out pretty quick. I've got some samples.
lillian		I'm so sorry. I was at our travel agen's trying to figure out how to get my da's family out here, they all have to fly at different times, uggh. What's that on your arms? She sees some of Annie's lice medicine motion.
annie		Huh? Oh...I did a face mask. I must have gotten some on me and didn't rinse it.
lillian		Oh shit, I'm sorry, I have to check one thing really quick. When is my hair consultation? Lillian frantically looks through her calender.
annie		Listen, I want to talk to you about--
lillian		Oh no. 
annie		What's wrong?
lillian		I knew it. I'm going to have my period on my wedding day...and my honeymoon!
annie		It's ok. I mean it's not like it's your first time doing it.
lillian		It's our wedding night though!
annie		You can still have sex, just put a towel down in the bed.
lillian		I can't believe this. This sucks.  Oh, Annie I wanted to ask you. Do you think for the cocktail party before the reception we should have a string trio or a horn trio?
lillian		What?
annie		You just said a string trio or horn trio. I thought you didn't want anything fancy, you know, just keep it simple. Not a big deal.
lillian		I know but now that I'm planning everything it's just...I wanna do it right. It's once in a life time. It's my wedding. Lillian's phone rings.
annie		Helen.
helen		Annie? Where are you? Inside a truck?
annie		No, I'm doing laundry, what's up?
helen		Annie, the shower needs to happen soon. We haven't heard from you and everyone is-
annie		I know. I know. I'm trying to--
helen		Annie can I dialog openly with you? I know you're having some financial trouble and I think it would be best if I did the shower. Now before you say anything, let me say that showers can be very expensive and I think what's important here is what's best for Lillian.
annie		Wow.
helen		You don't have to give me an answer now
annie		You should have it. You should have it.
helen		Great. Well, I'll definitely need some help.
annie		Ok?
helen		Could you bring the cookies? Annie hangs up, looks at her laundry piles. Pissed.
girl		Excuse me!! A snotty thirteen year old, valley-type, rich girl stands at Annie's counter with an iced coffee chewing gum.
annie		Your best friend?
girl		Yeah.
annie		For now.
girl		(sip] What do you mean?
annie		Well, what's gonna happen when you get older? Did you ever think of that? What about when she makes new friends and they're more successful than you are? Girl stares annoyingly, chewing and sipping.
girl		Ummm....you're weird.
annie		You're stupid.
girl		You have no chin.
annie		You're gonna be a slut in high school.
girl		You are an old, single loser who has no friends, works in a jewelry store, colors her own hair, and will never know the feeling of owning a luxury car.
annie		(quietly] You. Little. Cunt. The girls eyes widen. The camera pans to show that the girl's dad and Donna have been there the whole time.
annie		Bye.
donna		You know, I knew a girl once. Karen Stippleton. She was really something. The life of the party, a concert pianist, she had naturally curly hair, and skin black as night. But one evening at a dinner party I walked in on her in the bathroom putting a vile of cocaine up her buttocks and last I heard, she was playing the saxophone outside of a drug store. And I'm gonna say something to you I should have told her. Don't waste your life. Find out what your gifts are and use them. Donna hugs Annie, then leaves her in the break room.
steve		Ooh, another package from your mom?
annie		Yep. It is a beautiful pink and white striped box with her name and address in calligraphy. When Annie opens the lid, Canon in D plays and a real butterfly flies out.
annie		You have got to be kidding me.
judy		Is there an animal over there?
annie		No, it's a C.D. She rolls over and turns it off.
judy		So, I'm flying straight to O'Hare the day of the shower cause I wanna get my hair done. Did you see that invitation? I didn't get the significance of the dead butterfly, but it looks like w're gonna have fun.
annie		I'm not.
judy		Oh, c'mon.
annie		I already know what it's gonna be like. It's gonna be uncomfortable and weird...I don't wanna go.
judy		Sweetie, listen to yourself. You ca't let her new friends get in the way of your being a part of one of the best days of Lil's life. NO way. You have a history with her that no one else has. So you walk into that party knowing that.
annie		Oh my God. She turns into the gates of Whitewater Estates. There is, a life-size sculpture of a bride and groom. As she gets closer, she sees they are real life models. They smile at Annie, wink at her and wave her by. At the next stop sign, a butler appears with a tray.
butler		Are you a guest of Helen Harris?
annie		Yes.
butler		The shower is one mile away. He hands her a pink lemonade.
annie		I don't have a cup-holder. As she's driving, little pink things start to fly beside her car.
valet		This will be placed in the gift room for you madame. He reaches for the cookies she made, and she stops him.
annie		I'll take those.
horseman		Would you like an assisted ride to the main house?
annie		Do I have to? An annoyed Annie arrives at the house on the horse with the man leading her on foot, holding the cookies. She dismounts. The front door is swung open by two attendants. As she enters the mansion, groups of girls pass by her...
shower girls		This is the most amazing shower 've ever been to/Can you believe this?/What a lucky bride/What a good friend... Helen's house is ALL cream and white with gold. Couches are puffy, etc. Annie walks to the backyard. We hear French standards. Beautiful tables are set. Swans and bunnies milling about. Attendants ready to serve. In the middle of everything stands an eight foot tall round sign that says Lillian and Dougie in puffy pink cursive. A waiter offers Annie champagne. She takes it.
leslie		Do you believe this shit? Annie is still staring at the sign.
becca		That's a big cookie huh.
annie		Where? They point to the sign. Annie walks closer to see it is indeed a huge cookie.
leslie		See. Sugar cookie.
lillian		Annieee!!! Lillian runs to her.
lillian		Coming Mom! I gotta go say hi to my aunts. She leaves and Helen appears out of nowhere again.
helen		Hi Annie!
annie		Beautiful party.
helen		Oh, it's nothing....so...Just make yourself at home. Enjoy!
annie		Thanks.  Asshole.
helen		What did you say?
annie		I said I love this shower, and i's amazing. I said all that. Annie leaves. Two hip hop dancers wearing pink berets approach Helen and jam out in her face.
helen		OK, not me, NOT ME! The GUESTS. Hip hop dance with the GUESTS!
annie		Mom. Hi! They hug.
judy		Thank you sweetheart.  I wish Barb could see me now.
annie		Not today Mom.
judy		You're right. Well I'm happy to see you! I'll see you out there. I need to wash the horse off my hands. Mom goes into the bathroom. Megan approaches.
megan		Annie, did you see the party favors?
annie		I'm sure they're perfect and amazing.
megan		They're dogs!
annie		What?
megan		Yeah. And they're wrapped up like presents. They said we have to wait until we leave but I cant stop thinking about them. I gotta go tell Lillian.
helen		Hello ladies. Bonjour. Yay! Welcome. I am your host Helen, a bridesmaid in Lillian's wedding. I want you all to have a wonderful time. Eat, drink, please have some cookie! She laughs and then becomes very serious.
judy		I don't know what's going on honey. The shower is a hit.
dana		Everyone it's game time! Please take your piece of paper, put it on top of your head, and with your other hand try to draw what Lillian and Dougie's first baby is going to look like!!! Ready? GO! Everyone draws, giggles, looks at their stupid drawings, laughing. Annie cheats and draws it on her lap.
annie		Yeah, that's mine. Thank you.
shower girls		One... two...three! Annie looks confused. They throw Ellie onto a huge pile of pillows. This is a terrible game.
helen		#9. What is Lillian's favorite ice cream flavor? Write it down...quickly.
annie		 Ew. Kinda smells funny in here. Doesn't it? Smells bad. This house has a weird smell.
helen		OK, last one. For the big prize. #10. What is the craziest place Lillian and Dougie....? Helen strongly hints with a weird smile instead of saying, ...had sex? Shower Girls Ooooh and Ahhhh.
annie		 Wow, looks like someone's a pervert. It's none of my business. She's gross.
girl 1		 I'm putting a blue bead on this advice necklace to represent the ocean. It may not always be smooth sailing but you can ride the waves together. Dana cries and takes a picture. Everyone applauds,
annie		 The ocean's are really polluted right now. Its not something to joke about.
lillian		Oh! My towels! Thank you Dana.
dana		I just wanted to get you something you could use everyday and something pretty. Dana takes a picture, Lillian grabs another box, giddy.
lillian		Annie.  Oh, our mugs! Thank you Annie.
annie		Well, you registered for 'em so thank yourself, you picked them out. I did't do anything...
helen		This one's from me. Helen hands Lillian her gift. Lil opens it and holds up beautiful lingerie.
shower girls		Oooo/Ahhhhh etc.
megan		Ooh, brothel gear...
annie		(sotto] It's disgusting. Here Mom's here.
lillian		Wait, what's this? Lillian pulls out an envelope.
annie		 Wow, cash. Kinda tacky. Lillian opens the envelope.
lillian		Oh my God. Helen. Lillian holds up the tickets.
laurie		Honey what are they?
lillian		Two first class tickets to Sea World. How did you--
annie		Are you fucking kidding me?
judy		Annie!
lillian		Annie! What is going on with you?
annie		Nothing have fun at Sea World.
helen		Why don't we go in the other room and--
annie		Shut up you ridiculous person, you a sneaky little cream and white cashmere--.
helen		Annie. Everyone I am so sorry, I really don't know what you mean.
annie		I think you do. And look at that cookie! Would you please everyone! Speaking of that cookie. I never got a piece! Annie marches into the back yard.
lillian		Annie stop! I don't know what's going on.
annie		Well let me fill you in. Ever since you got engaged, my life has turned to shit.
lillian		I'm sorry the the happiest time in my life has brought you so much misery. Do you know how selfish that sounds?
annie		I'm selfish? You're the one that's been so wrapped up in all this. Designer dressed, extravagant hotels, this shower, this is not you!
lillian		This is my wedding and you've made it all about you.
annie		Well at least my friendship's not for sale. This hangs in the air. Annie storms off. Lillian storms back inside.
helen		Do you think she still has body lice?
lillian		Anyone else?! Anyone else have something they wanna say to me?! Dana can't contain herself.
dana		I got my chin done! Becca stands up.
becca		Kevin smokes pot! Leslie stands up.
leslie		I'm pregnant! Megan stands up.
megan		I took two dogs already. There in the back of my van!
annie		Thank you! Her car won't start. Trying to keep it together, she grabs her running shoes from the back seat and storms down the highway, trying not to cry. A cop car pulls next to her. I's Rhodes.
rhodes		Well, I can't say I'm surprised.
annie		Yes. Taillights. I know!
rhodes		You should've taken it to my friend-
annie		I KNOW! Yes, you're friend! But I didn't ok?! I didn't get them fixed! I don't--
rhodes		Whoa. Don't take it out on me. This is your fault.
annie		HE hit ME!
rhodes		You had no taillights! You did't get them fixed! You don't get to blame anyoe else. It's your fault. Annie starts to walk away.
rhodes		I know that you not taking responsibility is why we're standing out here! YOU did not make an effort to fix that problem. This hits Annie. Rhodes is physically worked up.
annie		Why are you yelling at me?!
rhodes		It's dangerous! You're putting your life, and others in danger!
annie		I'm! Sorry! He calms down.
rhodes		Look, all I know, is that you're kinda crazy. You're always stressed out or late, complaining about something, and now you're yelling at me! And for some reason, all I've ever wanted to do is ask you on a date.
annie		Well save yourself the trouble, and don't.
rhodes		Yeah, I'm not much of a hickey guy anyway. Annie remembers her hickey. He saw it?!
annie		Well, I have said no anyway.
rhodes		Well, then you have yourself a good night ma'am. Annie regrets that. He drives away leaving her there. She is alone.
bill		Rhodes told me a while back you might be stopping in. I'm Bill Cozbi.
annie		Oh, hi.
bill		I was beginning to think we'd never see ya.
annie		Yeah, I know. I'm irresponsible.
bill		Nah, no one likes taking care of that stuff. But you are going to have to leave your car here for a week or so.
annie		A week?
steve		So you kind of had a bad time at the wedding shower?
annie		Yes I did. Everything's just... She starts crying. Steve hands her a tissue from the middle console.
steve		Yeah. Ok, don't get mad at me, but it seems like you have a lot of those.
annie		Yes I do! Right? Thank you.
steve		Have you considered the idea that maybe, possibly, perhaps, it's you that makes them shitty? Annie stares at him.
annie		This is not about attitude. It's just the facts! My life hasn't turned it out the way I expected. I don't have any of those things that gives a person points in the world.
steve		I think that might be your problem. I think you read too many of those magazines. You don't need things to be someone. Tyra said that. Tyra Banks.
woman		Is anyone sitting here?
annie		No. The lady sits next to Annie and smiles at her.
ted		Hey Annie.
annie		Oh, hey Ted. You're in town.
ted		Yeah, yeah. Listen I'm going out tonight but I should be home around 11, you wanna come over?
annie		Really? Ok, sure. Ted smiles at her. Annie stops herself.
tim		Well, I can't think of anything else to tell you. Did you have any questions?
annie		No, I think we've covered everything. I'm really excited and thank you. Annie gathers her things.
tim		Four a.m. Annie is a little surprised. Ti's smiling.
annie		I won't be late.
tim		Oh and I wanna try one of those moonpies.
annie		(smiling] Yeah. Ok.
annie		Hi, I'm here to inquire about financial aid. Her cell phone rings.
administration lady		Take these to the second window.
annie		I'm sorry? Annie's trying to find her phone.
administration lady		The second window.
annie		Thanks. It's too late, she looks at her phone. It was Lillian. No message. She doesn't call her back.
bill		Parts and labor, we're lookin' at eight hundred dollars. But with your discount...
annie		Discount?
rhodes		Yeah. Rhodes and I worked out a deal way back when, so, this one's on the house.
annie		Are you serious?
bill		Yep. I owe him big time. He runs background checks on all the guys my daughter dates. There's been a lot of 'em.
annie		You're kidding! If you see him, would you thank him for me and tell him that I'm crazy and I'm sorry. He'll know what you mean.
steve		Ok, you can take Women's Studies or Spanish...oooh The History of Wine. The phone rings.
annie		Hello?
megan		Annie. It's Megan, Becca Leslie, Dana and Helen.
annie		Oh. Hi--
megan		Lillian's missing!
annie		What do you mean she's missing?
megan		We were all supposed to get spray-tans today and she never showed up. No on's heard from her. She could be anywhere, doing anything! She could be ANYWHERE--
leslie		Jesus Christ, give me the God damn phone. Leslie grabs the phone from Megan.
annie		Um, gosh I..I don't know. Um, I'll come to you guys. I'll be there in an hour and 45 minutes. I wanna help. Annie hangs up, grabs her keys. She stops, comes back and grabs a small paper bag, and runs out the door.
steve		What about the Science of Jazz?
dana		Maybe she's at the park.
helen		The park? Don't be stupid Dana.
leslie		Jeez, take it easy.
helen		Well, it's closed is all I'm just saying.
megan		Maybe she flew somewhere. Everyone always hides in Mexico.
becca		I don't think she'd leave the country. Maybe she went to the reservoir.
helen		Why would she go to the reservoir? Its just a big tank of water.
dana		Ernie and I sometimes go for our morning walk there. It's the next best thing to a lake.
annie		Oh my God! I think I know where she is.
leslie		How much further?
annie		We're almost there.
becca		I'm think I'm getting carsick.
helen		Is that supposed to be a dig on my driving?
dana		Well you do speed up and slow down a lot.
helen		Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't take a stunt driving course in Renegade missions.
becca		Why do you always have to be so condescending?
leslie		Yeah, its getting really old.
helen		I was being funny!
dana		Well it came out a little mean Helen.
helen		Dana who's side are you on? All the girls start yelling. Helen loses control of the car for a split second and drives off the road hitting something. BOOM! The girls scream!!! She pulls over. All the girls are wide eyed and speechless.
becca		What was that?
dana		Did we hit something!?
helen		Was it a person?
annie		Guys it's just a flat. I've gotten tons of them. Annie goes to get out of the car.
leslie		You don't call 911 for a flat tire! A huge truck drives by moving their car a little bit. The girls SCREAM!
annie		Guys! We're fine. Helen, put the hazards on. Helen puts them on.
leslie		I'm calling AAA.
becca		I'm calling Kevin!
annie		Helen, do you have a jack?
helen		Probably?!
dana		What if we get hit just sitting here? Or kidnapped or chased by an animal?
annie		Dana calm down.
leslie		Shit! I don't have any service.
becca		Me neither!
dana		Oh my God! We're gonna die... Annie has had enough and gets out. The tire is definitely flat. She opens Hele's trunk, lifts the bottom (wherever the jack is in an Escalade] She goes up to the window.
annie		Everyone's gotta get out, if you want me to fix this. They complain that its dangerous, i's cold, but they do. Annie puts the jack under car.
leslie		So, how can I help?
annie		Hold the flashlight. Leslie and Megan watch as Annie pumps the jack. She really does know what she's doing! The car is raising.
dana		That's pretty cool she knows how to do change a tire.
becca		I know. I can't believe she's doing it. Dana and Becca move over to Annie. Helen waits alone.
helen		Just don't scratch anything. The girls are all crouched down to watch Annie in awe.
dana		So what are you doing now?
annie		I'm removing the lug nuts so we can take the tire off.
becca		How does that little thing lift the whole car?
megan		It uses hydraulic power. It gives a human being the lifting capacity of 1.5 to three tons.
leslie		How do you know this stuff?
megan		I like cars. There's a real artistry to them.
helen		Are you guys working or talking? We do't have all night.
dana		 Annie is doing the best she can Helen. So why don't you just stand over there and be quiet and wait.
helen		Excuse me?! Dana stands. She has had it with Helen.
dana		I said, will you, for once, shut the fuck up!!!?? Dana approaches Helen. The other girls are standing now.
helen		What!?
dana		You're so- bossy! You've been acting like you're in charge this whole time! Do't you realize how much pressure sh's under? You know, Lillian did not want to leave her reception in a unicorn-drawn carriage?! She said That's not me. And you ordered it anyway! You've been pushing her this whole time! Annie was right.
megan		Yeah! Helen glares at Megan.
helen		What are you talking about? The only reason you're even in this wedding is because you're the groom's sister. Weirdo.
megan		I'd rather be the groom's sister than have cameltoe from my $600 pants. We see that Helen has cameltoe. Megan has surprised them.
helen		Why is everyone attacking me? I wasn't the one who caused a huge scene at Lillian's bridal shower and made her cry.
leslie		I hate to interrupt this riveting discussion but a really creepy guy in a Trans Am just pulled over. The guy gets out of the car. He is thirty-ish, wears at- shirt with a cat on it and camouflage shorts.
annie		Just changing the tire.
annie		Nope I think we got it. But thank you. He doesn't leave, the girls worriedly look at each other.
megan		Hey! Are those snowflake rims? The guy looks at Megan.
megan		I bet you got a formula 4OO under there?
megan		I'm in the Firebird club.
megan		You ever make it up to the Trans Am Nationals in Dayton? Becca, Dana, Leslie and Helen are huddled together. They talk in a loud whisper.
becca		What's happening? What's happening?
dana		I can hear animals.
becca		Be quiet! The guy is moving closer to Megan.
megan		Remember Smokey and the Bandit?
megan		Why don't you show me what's under the hood? Back at Helen's car. Leslie sneaks over to Annie.
leslie		How's it comin'?
annie		Almost there. The guy has lifted up his hood and Mega's looking. He puts his hands on her ass.
megan		Uh... He is really getting aggressive, pushing against her.
dana		Oh my God!! Annie is frantically releasing the jack.
annie		OK, everybody in the car! Get in! Megan, Helen let's go! All the girls scramble in the car, Helen starts it. Annie is finishing.
helen		Annie get in!
annie		Back away! Or I will shove this Jack so far down your throat you will shit out...your fucking..face!
annie		Get out!
continuous		The girls still driving. Megan's eating chips.
leslie		Megan I was freaked out when he leaned up against you. That was a pretty gutsy move.
megan		Annie's the one who tried to make him eat a car jack.
annie		Helen hit him over the head with a tree. They all continue talking, Helen and Annie smile.
leslie		God I haven't been here in forever.
annie		The house is right up here. They pull up to a small cottage and get out of the car.
helen		Her car's not here.
dana		Doesn't look like any lights are on.
becca		She's not here. Annie is sitting on the front step, defeated.
annie		I thought she'd be here. I really thought she'd be here. I'm sorry.
dana		Annie, it's ok.
annie		No, it's not. I don't know what happened. I messed everything up. Lillia's not even talking to me. I think I'm so afraid to see what's really happening. Lillian's moving on to this great life and I feel left behind. And know matter how hard I try, I don't fit in to her life now. Everyone is silent.
helen		Annie, Lillian loves you. (beat] I know I haven't made things easy for you.. I don't have a life and I am bored. Perry is always away and I'm constantly alone and she's been there. And I've been a bridesmaid nine times and although I may have implied it, I....I've never been a Maid of Honor. I wanted to make everything special for Lillian because... I don't have a lot of friends. I wanted her to like me better and to impress her, and everyone else. And I'm just good at throwing parties. I always have been. In fact sometimes I think people only ask me to be in their wedding's because of that.
annie		Lillian wouldn't do that. If she asked you to be in her wedding it's because you are her friend. Trust me. Dana is crying and takes a picture. The're both startled by the flash.
helen		I'm sorry about the Sea World tickets.
annie		I'm sorry that when I left the shower I told your neighbors you were shooting a porn.
helen		Oh, I didn't know that you did that.
annie		Oh, well, sorry.
helen		I deserved it.
annie		I must say you do put on some pretty spectacular events.
helen		Well, I'm really rich. They smile.
annie		It is getting pretty late.
dana		What should we do about Lillian?
annie		She'll come home when she's ready.
annie		You okay?
lillian		Yeah. Didn't mean to make anyone worry.
annie		It's okay. I really am sorry.
lillian		I'm sorry too. I didnt want things to turn out like this. I got so caught up in the frenzy of everything, wanting this one day to be perfect.
annie		Well its easy to get caught up.
lillian		And it doesnt help that all my friends hate eachother.
annie		I'm sorry. But it's all good now. We all talked and everythings cool.
helen		Really?!
annie		Yup, Helen and I are best friends now. We're going shopping for cream sweaters tomorrow.
lillian		She's really not so bad.
annie		I know.
lillian		I just wish the wedding hadnt become about everything and everyone else but me and Dougie. And now, it's become this thing I never wanted. I did want simple. I wanted colored lanterns, twinkly lights and food everywhere. I wanted a DJ to play all those stupid wedding songs.
annie		It's not too late to have those things.
lillian		I'm sorry I didn't know all the stuff you were going through too. Annie is clearly sad.
annie		It's fine. I just feel really lost right
lillian		Nothing's going to change.
annie		Oh God dont say that.
lillian		I mean between you and me.
annie		You want to come in? Steve's home. This could be your last chance as a single woman.
lillian		Ooooo...
steve		Thanks a lot for bringing me.
annie		Thanks for coming with me. Megan appears on her other side.
megan		Yeah, thanks for bringing him.
lillian		So when does school start?
annie		A week. I'm scared. I'm gonna be the oldest one there.
lillian		So what? Now you can have an affair with your teacher and it won't be gross. They walk down the steps.
annie		Really?
lillian		 MMM. No. That's not true at all. You were pretty terrible. Today you were good. Annie sees the hotel shuttle.
annie		Oh, I want to catch this shuttle back to the hotel.
lillian		You're always gonna be my best friend. They hug goodbye. She runs down the stairs.
annie		I will see YOU in a couple weeks Mrs. Price!
annie		How did you know I was here?
rhodes		It was really complicated. I remembered the name of this place, I called them up, told them I was a cop calling on official police business, doing a very big investigation and uh, made them tell me all the weddings they had planned for the next two months with a bride named Lillian. [ALT: I'm a cop] Annie smiles.
annie		Wow. They're looking at each other, not knowing what to do.
rhodes		Yes I did.
annie		Did you like' em?
rhodes		Yeah. No. I couldn't eat them. They were completely covered in ants.
annie		Ooo, I didn't think about that.
rhodes		You probably should have put it in a plastic wrap or maybe a foil or something. Tupperware would've worked but then I'd have to get it back to you-I'm gonna kiss you right now so... He walks to her and takes her in his arms. They are about to kiss. Rhodes stops.
alt ending		Annie is walking back to her hotel. A cop car pulls up next to her.
annie		How did you know I was here?
rhodes		I'm a cop. They're looking at each other, not knowing what to do.
annie		So, did you get the moonpies?
rhodes		Yes I did.
annie		Did you like' em?
rhodes		Yeah. No. I couldn't eat them. They were completely covered in ants.
annie		Ooo, I didn't think about that.
rhodes		The real reason I came here today is that I have something that belongs to you. He opens his hand to reveal the ugly carrot. She smiles. He stops the car and unlocks the passenger door. She gets in. They drive off into the sunset.
****Dialogues from script :Bringing_Out_the_Dead.txt****

larry		 We're there.
old woman		Which apartment? Which apartment?
frank		Move back. Where's the stairs? 5A.
old woman		Oh Jesus, it's Mr. Burke.
john		We were just watching TV and Dad yelled out and started punching his chest, next thing he locked himself in the bathroom. I said we were gonna call you guys and he said not to. He was crying, I never heard him crying before, then he sorta stopped. We pulled him out and put him on the bed.
frank		How long ago did he stop breathing?
john		Maybe ten minutes. Woman on the phone tried to tell us how to do CPR. Please, you gotta do something.
frank		We'll do all we can.
mary		No more, please don't!
mary		What?
frank		Music. I think it helps if you play something he liked.
mary		John, play the Sinatra.
mary		Play the Sinatra.
larry		It's OK, Frank. We can call it. Eighty- three.
frank		No we can't. He's got a pulse.
larry		No shit.
mary		Is he going to be alright?
frank		 His heart's beating.
frank		Help your family. Ride with your mother and brother.  Help your family. They need you more. Help yourself.
griss		Hey partner. Your man does not look well. They're not gonna appreciate you inside.
frank		 Griss, let us in.
griss		Things are backing up.
nurse constance		Just keep moving. Don't even slow down.
noel		For God's sake, give me some water.
big feet		Shut up! Goddamn civilians.
noel		Give me some water!
nurse crupp		Don't take another step. We're on diversion. Can't accept any more patients. Your dispatcher should have told you.
frank		We got him at Eighteen and Second. You're closest.
nurse crupp		Where will I put him, Frank? Look. Tell me.
frank		He wanted to come here. Said the nurses at Misery were the best.
nurse crupp		 All right, give me a minute. I'll kick someone out of slot three.
noel		 Excuse me. You are a very kind man. I can see that. A man like you could not refuse a poor sick dying helpless man a small cup of water.
frank		I can't. I have to stay with my patient.
big feet		Shut the fuck up! If it wasn't for these dun feet I'd get up and kick your ass!
hazmat		Godammit, guys, what are you doing to me? We're all backed up in here. Christ, would you look at him? He's gonna need the works. What's wrong with him?
larry		You should know. You pronounced him.
hazmat		You told me he was dead. Flatline.
frank		He got better.
hazmat		I hate pronouncing people dead over the phone.  Better, huh? They're fixed and dilated. He's plant food.
nurse crupp		 We stole a stretcher from X-ray. No pad on it, but I don't think he'll mind. Put him in three, next to the overdose.
hazmat		He's our lowest priority now. He shouldn't even be here. All this technology. What a waste.
griss		Please folks, step back.  Don't make me take off my sunglasses.
hazmat		First-time heart attack, age 45. Should have gone to the CCU ten hours ago. There's three bodies up there Mike the one you just brought in. over there, two AIDS patients, one in twelve filling up with liquid. I'm gonna hafta intubate because the kid's mother won't sign the Do Not Resuscitate. Mercy killing doesn't translate well in Spanish. It's a sin to tube this kid. Three more ODs from some new killer junk. They call it Red Death.
noel		Water, water, water, doctor man, water.
hazmat		A mix of heroin and I don't know what else, some kind of amino acid maybe. Stuff so strong they're drinking it with grain alcohol. You have to use ten times the usual amount of Narcan and watch out when they wake up, liable to go nuts on you.
frank		 He one of them?
hazmat		No, that's Noel. Used to be a regular off and on, hasn't been in in a while. He seized and almost coded--I gave him a hypertonic solution. He drank so much the kidneys were taking out salt. One for the textbooks.
noel		Oh doctor, you are the greatest. You must help me.
big feet		For God's sake, give him a drink of water.
hazmat		I am helping you, Noel. You could die if you drink more water.
noel		Bless you sir, bless you.
big feet		Shut up.
nurse constance		... so you get drunk every day and you fall down. Tell me why we should help you when you're going to get drunk tomorrow and fall down again?
frank		 He's very very sick.
mary		I know him. That's Noel.
frank		We'd better go outside. Quickly.
mary		Is there any chance?
frank		 I guess there's always a chance.
mary		Noel, Noel, it's me, Mary. From 17th Street.
noel		Mary, Mary, Mary. I'm so thirsty. They won't give me anything to drink. Please, Mary.
mary		 I'll get you some.
frank		I wouldn't do that.  The doctor seems to think he's suffering from some rare disorder.
mary		It's not so rare. He grew up on our street. He's had a rough life and he's a little crazy from it, but that's no excuse for not giving someone a lousy cup of water.
noel		Oh Mary, Mary, Mary.
larry		The Chinese close in five minutes. Beef lo mein. It's  been on my mind since I woke. Whatjathink?
frank		I think the moment that food hits your mouth we'll get a job.
larry		Turn here. You missed it. The Chink is on 3rd.
larry		Some partner you are Frank. I coulda walked there faster. I'm starving and you stop to talk to hookers. You're making me nuts. Is that what you're trying to do, drag me down with you to nutsville?
frank		What?
larry		I'm so stupid. I had beef lo mein last night. I can't eat the same thing two nights in a row. It's almost two o'clock, what the hell am I gonna do? What you getting?
frank		I'm not hungry.
larry		Oh yeah, you don't eat food.
frank		I eat. I just haven't had coffee yet.
larry		Coffee and whiskey, lucky you ain't dead with that diet. Wait, I've got it. Half fried chicken with fries. Let's go, hurry up. Come on.
larry		Turn it off.
frank		What?
larry		You know what. The radio.
police dispatch		Ladder Four, respond to a 10-22 four flight residential, 317 East 32nd.
larry		Let's do it. It might be a good one.
frank		You wanted it turned off. There's no such thing as a good fire. People get burned up. They can't breathe.
larry		That's what we're here for. Come on, Frank.
frank		Don't push it, Larry.
larry		You're burned out.
radio dispatcher		One-three Zebra. Zebra three, I need you.
larry		You see, he's giving it to us anyway.
radio dispatcher		Zebra, are you there? I'm holding an unconscious at First and St. Marks.
larry		 No! It's three o'clock. That can only mean one thing.
frank		Mr. Oh.
larry		It's Mr. Oh. I'm not answering it.
radio dispatcher		Answer the radio Zebra. You know it's that time.
larry		Four times this week I've had him. Aren't there any other units out there?  Don't answer the radio. They'll give it to someone else.
radio dispatcher		Thirteen Zebra. One-Three Zebra. You're going out of service in two seconds.
larry		Look, Frank, when I say don't answer it, that means answer it.  Three Zebra.
radio dispatcher		Yes, Zebra. You'll be driving to the man who needs no introduction, chronic caller of the year three straight and shooting for number four. The duke of drunk, the king of stink, our most frequent flier, Mr. Oh.
larry		Ten-four.  Don't go. Not this time.
frank		 Relax, it's a street job, easy except for the smell. We'll just throw him in back and zip over to Mercy--no blood, no dying, that's how I look at it. He's just a drunk.
larry		It's not our job to taxi drunks around.
frank		They'll just keep calling.
larry		Someone's gonna die someday causa that bum, going to have a cardiac and the only medics will be taking care of Mr. Oh.
larry		 So what's different?
frank		Well why didn't you say so?
larry		He's drunk.
larry		He's fine. He can walk to the hospital.
larry		Don't start that. I've seen him walk. He walks better than me.
larry		That's him, Mr. Oh.  Get up.
crowd		Good luck! Get better!
larry		Faster! God!
frank		 Faster!
griss		Get that stinky-assed motherfucking bug-ridden skell out of my face.
nurse constance		I would have to register you to give you something to eat and my conscience just will not allow that. Griss, the gentleman wants to leave.  He looks pale. You're not eating enough. You need more fiber.
larry		 He's wasted. That's my diagnosis: shit-faced.
nurse constance		He just needs a bath and some food. Take him in back and see if you can find a stretcher.
larry		 She's nuts. That's why he comes here. She encourages him.
nurse crupp		Don't you dare! That's my last stretcher. This is not a homeless shelter. He'll have to wait in the lobby.
griss		No way man. Not even in the corner. Griss cannot abide the funk tonight.
mary		It's my first cigarette in over a year.
frank		The first is always the best.
mary		It's the waiting that's killing me, not knowing, you know? It's really hard on my mother. The doctor doesn't think my father'll make it. He says he was dead too long, after six minutes the brain starts to die and once that goes, close the door.
frank		You never know.
mary		I mean if he was dead, I could handle that.
frank		At least he's got people around him.
mary		I'm not so sure. My father and I haven't spoken in three years. When my brother called to say my father was having a heart attack, that he'd locked himself in the bathroom, all the way going over I was thinking how I was gonna tell him what a bastard he was. Then when I got up the stairs and we moved him onto the bed, I thought of all these other things I wanted to say.
frank		Even when you say the things, there's always more things.
mary		Right now, I'm more worried about my mother than anything. They won't let her see my father.
frank		Go home. Take her home. Get some rest. Not going to find anything out now.
mary		That's what I told her. If she could just see him a second, then I could take her home.
larry		Time to switch. I wheel, you heal.
radio dispatcher		12 David on the corner of Thirty- eight and Two you'll find a three- car accident, two taxis and a taxi. One-two Henry, 427 East Two-two, report of a very bad smell. No further information ...
frank		Larry, swing over on Eighth. We're gonna hafta run one of these calls.
larry		Relax, will you.
larry		You have no sick time, Frank. No time of any kind. Everyone knows that.
frank		Take me back, put me to bed; I surrender. We've done enough damage tonight.
larry		You take things too seriously. Look at us, we're cruising around, talking, taking some quiet time, getting paid for it. We've got a good job here.
frank		Yeah, you're right.
frank		Tell me, you ever think of doing anything else?
larry		Sure, I'm taking the captain's exam next year. After the kids are in school, Louise can go back to the post office and, I thought, what the hell, I'll start my own medic service. Out on the Island the volunteers are becoming salaried municipal. It's just a matter of time and who you know. Someday it's going to be Chief Larry calling the shots.
radio dispatcher		Zebra. One-three Zebra.  Zebra, answer the radio. Come on, I've got one for you. Pick up the radio and push the button on the side and speak into the front.
frank		 Zebra.
radio dispatcher		Male bleeding, corner of Houston and One. No further information.
frank		Ten-four.
noel		Kill me!
frank		Noel, don't!
larry		He's crazy.
frank		You really think so?
noel		See, I can't do it. I came out of the desert.
frank		You came out of the hospital. You were tied down and hallucinating. You got some bad chemicals in your head, Noel. There's some medicine at the hospital that will fix that.
noel		No, no medicine!
larry		He got you.
black punk		Do it! Man wants to die. Take him out! I know how to kill that mother.  Pop, pop.
frank		Noel, you didn't let me finish. We have rules against killing people on the street. Looks bad, but there's a special room at the hospital for terminating. A nice quiet room with a big bed.
noel		Oh man, do you mean that?  Thank you man, thank you. How?
frank		Well, you have your choice: pills, injection, gas.
noel		I think pills. Yes, pills, definitely.
larry		Jesus, Tom Walls, that crazy motherfucker.
frank		Used to be my partner.
walls		Frank, this the guy you called about? I know him.  You give my friend here any trouble and I'll kill you.
noel		Yes, at the hospital.
walls		This looks like a very bad man I took in a couple weeks ago, a man who'd been holding two priests hostage with a screwdriver. I told him if I ever caught him making trouble again I'd kick the murdering life outta him.
frank		It's not worth it, Tom. He's surrendering.
walls		No prisoners. Don't worry, Frank, just a little psychological first aid.
frank		Don't do it, Tom!
larry		There's a double shooting three blocks- up. First and Third. confirmed.
walls		 We'll do it.
noel		At the hospital. You told me at the hospital.
bystander		Man just walked up and shot 'em. Not a word. Man, that was cold.
frank		 Where you hit?
frank		Major Tom, I'm going to Misery. You take yours to Bellvue.
frank		You're gonna feel a stick in your arm. Don't move.
drug dealer		I don't want to die.
noel		I want to die. I'm the one.
drug dealer		Oh Jesus, I don't want to die.
frank		You're not going to die.
noel		What did you say?
frank		 Shut up. You're going to die and he's not. Got it.
drug dealer		 Hold my hand.
frank		I can't. I got to do the other arm.
drug dealer		Please.
frank		 Hold this--right there. If you let go, I swear, I won't kill you.
frank		It's all right. We're here.
larry		Noel, let's go.
frank		He's not breathing. Call a code.
mary		Hello again.
frank		It's okay. They're prescription.  Works better with a little whiskey.
mary		That's my brother's problem. He's passed out inside.
larry		That's it! I can't do it anymore!
mary		That boy you brought in, he was shot, wasn't he?
frank		Yes.
mary		He's dead, huh?
frank		Yes.
mary		 I think this place stinks.
frank		Our Lady of Misery.
mary		Did you see my father?
frank		No.
mary		It's crazy in there. What's wrong with that doctor? He keeps mumbling, poking himself in the eye when he talks to me.
frank		He's working a double shift.
mary		Thing is, I'm supposed to be the fuckup. The one on the stretcher in there--that's supposed to be me. With my parents crying out here. I got a lot of guilt, you know what I mean?
frank		She should go home.
mary		I'd take her, but then who would stay here?
frank		Here she is.
mary		You saw him?
frank		Mrs. Burke, please, they'll take care of him. You should go home now.
frank		Larry and I'll drop her back home. Help me get her to the ambulance.
mary		Thank you.
frank		Good morning, Captain.
frank		I'm sick. That's what I've been telling you.
frank		It's okay. I'll just get my things out of the locker.
frank		I'm sorry Captain. Don't take it too hard.
frank		You know they won't do it. It's up to you. You gotta be strong.
frank		You swore you'd fire me if I came in late again.
frank		I don't think a week's gonna do it.
marcus		My Lord mother man, you look like hell. What were you drinking?
frank		The captain almost fired me tonight. I'm on my way out. Anytime now.
marcus		Nobody gets fired. Look at me. Only thing they might do is transfer you to the Bronx. You look like you aged ten years since I rode with you last.
frank		The ghosts--
marcus		You ever notice people who see shit always, are crazy?
frank		I think the worst is over.
marcus		It can always get worse. You can't change what's out there, only where you're coming from. You got to let the Lord take over, in here. 
dispatcher love		Twelve Young.  Let's go, Twelve Young. Answer the radio.
frank		Hey, Marcus, it's Love. I haven't heard her in months.
marcus		She only works when I'm on. I make her wait and it drives her crazy.
frank		Is it true that you and Love went on a blind date?  She hit you with a bottle?
marcus		She loves me the way no woman ever has.
dispatcher love		Twelve Young, I don't have time for your games. Now answer me or do I have to come out there myself?
marcus		I usually don't do calls before coffee. But I think it might do you some good.  Twelve Young is here and I'm gonna take care of you, baby. Don't you worry about a thing, yahear, cause Marcus is alive and on arrival.
dispatcher love		I'm not your baby, Young, I'm not your mother either. You're going to a cardiac arrest, Avenue C and Ninth, northeast corner. It's a club. Take the side entrance.
marcus		Ten-four, hon.  This is for you.
marcus		 I hope we're not late from you guys holding us up here.
marcus		Okay, what happened?
drummer		He's going to be all right, right?
marcus		No. He's dead.
drummer		No way, man.
marcus		He's dead and there's nothing we can do. Come on, Frank, that's it.
frank		 He's not dead. It's a heroin overdose. Break out the Narcon.
marcus		 He's dead unless you folks want to stop bullshitting me and tell it straight. Then, Lord willing, we'll try to bring him back.
bystander		He broke up with his old lady.
girlfriend		We didn't break up. We were just seeing other people.
marcus		I'm still waiting and this young man is still dead.
bystander		She broke his heart.
drummer		All right, all right, he's been snorting that Red Death stuff. Been going for four days.
marcus		 What's his name?
drummer		IB Bangin.
marcus		What'd you mean IB Bangin? What kind of name is IB Bangin?
girlfriend		 It's Frederick. Frederick Smith.
marcus		 Okay, Freddy.
girlfriend		It's Frederick.
marcus		Okay, IB Bangin, we're gonna bring you back. Every person here grab the hand of the person next to you.
girlfriend		 Frederick!
bystander		Oh wow, man. Oh wow.
ib bangin		 What happened?
girlfriend		You died, you stupid bastard. I warned you.
drummer		You guys are awesome.
frank		 C'mon.
marcus		Not us. The first step is Love. The second is Mercy.
frank		That guy I brought in yesterday, post-cardiac arrest. He's gone.
hazmat		Burke. You won't believe it. He's showing cognitive signs. He started with spontaneous respiration, now he's fighting to pull out the tube. Had to sedate him. He's in a CAT scan. I'm giving him every test I can: thromboytics, steroids, nitrodrips, heparin.
frank		What do you think?
hazmat		Who knows? It's all lower-brain-stem- activity. The heart refuses to stabilize--he's coded eleven times since he got here. This guy's a fighter. Every time the Valium wears off he starts yanking those restraints.
frank		The family know?
hazmat		I wanted to bring them in, to see if he'd respond to voices, but they weren't in the waiting room. The guy's daughter was in my face all last night and when I finally have something positive to tell her, she's gone.
nurse constance		... you put poison in your veins and now that you're breathing again you can't wait to say thank you and go back to poison shopping. Well, since we saved your life, maybe you could do us a favor and stop breathing in another city next time ...
marcus		I ever tell you about the time years ago I was on this ledge uptown, trying to talk this psycho inside?
frank		Where the guy jumped and you almost fell. No, you never told me that story.
marcus		No, you never listened. I was going, man, if someone on high hadn't pulled me in. I had put all I had into saving this dumbass lowlife suicidal that when he went down, there was a part of me that wanted to go with him.
frank		Make a left here. I want to stop.
frank		I'll be right back.
frank		Hello, I'm Frank Pierce, from the ambulance last night. I brought your father into the hospital and I just learned some news.
frank		Well, the doctor says he's showing some movement. It's still early, it might mean nothing, but I thought you'd want to know.
mary		I knew. I sensed it when I heard your voice.
frank		You look so different.
mary		I know. It's awful, isn't it? Night of the Living Cheerleaders.
frank		I think it looks good.
mary		I was going nuts in that waiting room so I came back to check on my mom.
frank		How is she?
mary		Sleeping.
frank		I was just going to get some food. Pizza. Maybe we could.
mary		You can't kill my father that easy. He'll fight forever. Like with me: hasn't talked to me in three years. But it's okay. Sometimes you have to put things behind you.
frank		Be tough to get a taxi here. We can give you a ride if you like.
mary		 Okay.
marcus		Who's that?
frank		She's the daughter of a cardiac arrest I brought in last night. I told her we'd give her a ride back to Misery. Her father's showing signs of improving.
marcus		Oh, Frank, you've got it bad, so much worse than I thought.
frank		I'm hungry too. We gotta get some food after this.
marcus		God help us, he's hungry too.
mary		Dad, can you hear me?  Open your eyes if you can hear me.
hazmat		I'll be damned.  It's movement, but I'm not sure how voluntary.
mary		He hears me. Open your eyes, Dad.
hazmat		Nurse Crupp, I need ten milligrams of Valium.
frank		Why don't we go outside for a little while, wait until this passes.
frank		He wants to pull that tube out. It's pretty painful--that's why they keep him sedated--but it's a good sign.
mary		You sure? I know my father would hate to be tied down. He wouldn't even go to the dentist.
frank		That's how it's done. You have to keep the body going until the brain and heart recover enough to go on their own.
mary		He's better, though, right?
frank		 He's better.
mary		Look, I'm sorry, but it's important to me. I mean, a week ago I was wishing he was dead. And now I want hear his voice again, just once more-- you know what I mean?
marcus		Went over to Sal's got this. There must be some place in Hell for a guy who sells a dollar-fifty a slice. I call you if anything comes up.
frank		Thanks.
mary		I'm not really hungry.
frank		It's best not to ...  It's good pizza, huh?
mary		Not as good as Nino's.
frank		You remember that pizza place, Joe's on Tenth Street maybe fifteen years ago?  When you ordered a pie it came with a little plastic madonna in the middle?
mary		Yeah, or Saint Anthony. You from the neighborhood?
frank		I grew up on Elizabeth. I went to Blessed Sacrament.
mary		On yeah? I went to Holy Name. Where'd you go to high school?
frank		We moved out after that. Upstate.
mary		Like everybody else--except us. Always standing on the sidewalk waving goodbye to moving trucks. Your parents ... ?
frank		They're fine. My old man was a bus driver, mom a nurse--I was sort of born to it, I guess.
mary		You married?
frank		Ah, no. I was.  It's hard to explain. She had a hard time adjusting to, well, maybe it was my fault too.
mary		Is it always this bad in here? I mean, how does anyone survive?
frank		It's been bad lately, but it's always bad.
mary		How long you been doing this?
frank		Five years.
mary		Wow, you musta seen some things, huh? What's the worst thing you ever seen?
frank		You learn to sort of block it out, you know, like cops fence off a crime scene. But then something good will happen and everything will just glow.
mary		You must get a lot of overdoses. I bet you picked me up a couple of times.
frank		I think I'd remember that.
mary		Maybe not. I was a different person then. Does everybody you meet spill their problems on you like this?
frank		Mostly. It must be my face. My mother always said I looked like a priest.
mary		 I better go check on my father. Thanks for the pizza. I owe you one. Maybe when he gets better, you know, when we're done with all this.
frank		Sure.
marcus		Rule number one: Don't get involved with patients. Rule number two: Don't get involved with patient's daughters. You understand?
frank		What about rule number three: Don't get involved with dispatchers named Love.
marcus		You don't know the first thing about rule number three, cannot begin to understand the complexities of that rule. Come on, let's go look at some hookers. The Kit Kat will be letting out.  Don't ever call a junkie whore a crackhead. They get real mad.
marcus		... look at her. Leaves you no idea what's underneath, not even a suggestion. Could be a skeleton for all you know.
frank		She's no whore, Marcus.
marcus		We're all whores, Frank. You know what I'm talking about, the way she looked at me.
frank		She wasn't looking at you, man, she was looking at me.
frank		I didn't kill you.
marcus		No, you didn't, Frank, thank you. But there's still a couple hours left on the shift.
frank		I need a drink, that's all.
dispatcher love		Twelve Young, answer the radio. I have a call for you.
marcus		She said to me, I love the way you talk on the radio.
dispatcher love		I can't wait all night, Young. I'm holding a priority and if you don't answer I'm going to knock you out of service.
marcus		 Don't worry, hon. Young is here and he's gonna help out--just remember, you owe me.
dispatcher love		You're going to three-four Avenue C, 17 year-old female cardiac arrest, no further information.
marcus		Ten-four, hon.
marcus		Look at that. A fat junkie. That's a first.
frank		 What's wrong.
carlos		No English. She has terrible pain in her belly.
frank		 Pregnant.
carlos		No, no, that's impossible.
frank		Are you pregnant? Estas embarazada?
carlos		She say she in great pain.
frank		Thanks for the translation.  What's your name? Nombre?
maria		Maria.
frank		Let's have a look.
marcus		 You know each other a long time?
carlos		Two years. Ever since we left island.
marcus		In that time, you ever have sex?
carlos		Never. No cigarettes, no drugs, no booze.
marcus		No underwear?
carlos		We are virgins.
frank		 Oh Jesus, we'd better go. Call for backup.
marcus		What's that, Frank?
frank		Three legs.
marcus		That's too many.
frank		Backup?
marcus		It's coming.
carlos		Is she dying?
frank		She's having a baby. Twins.
carlos		Es impossible.
frank		You can trust me on this one.
carlos		It's a miracle.
frank		You take the first one.
frank		She had a pulse.
nurse constance		Code! Code Blue!
hazmat		Oh Jesus, put her on the monitor. Where's the pediatric code cart?  Odette give me that tube. All right, flatline--let's do CPR. step back, Frank. How many months?
frank		Can't tell. It was a breech, twins. The other one seems okay, though. Marcus is taking him and the mother to Maternity.
crackhead		I'm a mother! I got a daughter! I got rights!
hazmat		 10 mil Valium, stat.
mishra		Status.
nurse constance		I think there's a pulse. I think.
mishra		Fuck.
nurse constance		Nothing.
noel		Excuse me, sir, excuse me, I would please trouble you for one cup of water. The smallest thing in the world to ask for, water. A man is dying and that is me.
hazmat		Christ. Who the hell woke him up?
frank		Don't give me that look.
marcus		What look?
frank		You know what I'm talking about. It's all over your face. That I-just- saved-a-little-baby-boy look.
marcus		We just saved a little baby boy. Think of it that way.
frank		I don't want to hear about it, okay? That's three jobs for the night. It's over. Three jobs and time for a drink. Six am, the cocktail hour. Pass the bottle; I know you're holding.
marcus		The bar is now open.
frank		I hate vodka.
marcus		Please, a little decorum if you will. What I was going to say is, is that holding that baby in my arms, I felt like I was twenty-one again. A call like that makes me think of going back to three nights a week, not two, start running again, cut down on the drinking.
frank		 I'll drink to that.
marcus		 Here's to the greatest job in the world.
frank		 Greatest job in the world.
dispatcher love		Twelve Young, I have priorities holding. Pick up the radio.
frank		Don't do it, Marcus. Tell her the bus died, our radio's not working, our backs are out. Tell her we're too drunk to take any more calls.
marcus		Let's do it!  It's Marcus, Love, only for you.
dispatcher love		Male diff breather, approximately 30, Houston and A.
marcus		Ten-four.
frank		I quit! I'm through!
marcus		You can't leave me now.
frank		So long, Noel.
griss		Your friend there just untied the water beggar. Griss was coming out to thank her. Probably saved Griss a murder charge.  Having a tough time of it.
frank		Excuse me. You seemed like you were in trouble.
mary		 I'm all right. I just can't stand to see people tied up.  I'm in the waiting room for hours, listening to Noel screaming. The only reason he's screaming is 'cause he's tied up.
frank		Don't seem so bad to me.
mary		Don't say that. I wanted to cut my father loose too. They told me he almost died and five minutes later they say he's better and I go in. It's killing me seeing him fighting like that.  Look, since you're here, maybe you could do me a favor. I need you to wait for me outside this building, okay? I have to visit a friend who's sick.
frank		Okay.
mary		I'm only asking because it's a dangerous building. There's been some robberies, a woman was raped not long ago. This woman I'm seeing, she'll want to talk to me all day, but if I can point to you out the window and say you're waiting, I can be out quick. if anything happens, I'll be in apartment 16M.
frank		Maybe I should come up with you.
mary		If I'm not back in fifteen minutes, hit the buzzer. That way she'll let me go.
frank		Nothing's going to happen. I'll come with you.
mary		No, I'll be fine. I'm just visiting a sick friend.
mary		I shouldn't have asked you to come.
frank		You asked me not to come.
mary		Promise you won't go inside.
frank		Fifteen minutes.
mary		I just have to relax a little. Not feel so guilty all the time.
frank		We can still go back. I'll walk you home. You sleep a couple of hours, watch some TV, take a bath.
mary		Don't be a cop. If you have any doubts about this, it's my fault.
mary		You go on home, okay. I'm fine, really. I don't need you. Thanks.
kanita		Hey Cy, guess who's here?
kanita		Can I help you?
frank		Mary Burke. She's a friend.
kanita		She's not here.
coates		It's okay, Kanita. Come on in.
kanita		He looks like a cop.
coates		He's not a cop, he's a medic.  I'm CY Coates.
frank		Frank Pierce.
coates		Mary said you might be coming.
frank		Where is she?
coates		Sleeping in the back.
frank		She asked me to pick her up.
coates		I know, but she told me to tell you she wants to crash here a few hours. Terrible about her father, isn't it?
frank		I better just go in and see her.
coates		I call this the Oasis. Refuge from the world out there. Did you know two people were shot in this building last week?
frank		Mary. Mary, we've got to get going.
mary		 No, no.
coates		She wanted something to help her sleep.
frank		Mary, we really have to go.
coates		Frank, she's suffered enough. She's okay, I promise.  C'mon, Frank.
frank		 Got a beer?
coates		That shit is poison, Frank. We don't drink alcohol here. What you need is one of these.
frank		Did you give Mary something called Red Death?
coates		Red Death?  Tell me something, Frank--does killing your clients make good business sense to you? The kids selling that shit have no sense. They'll be taken care of, don't worry about that.
frank		I should be going. I just quit.
coates		Sleep is all stress reduction. Here.  Why do you think I'm telling you this, Frank--for my health?  You ought to look at yourself in the mirror, man. Kanita, get him a glass of water.
frank		Is this what you gave Mary?
coates		That's the stuff. I call it the Red Lion. Very king-of-the-jungle.
frank		I guess I'll be going.
coates		Just take it easy.
kanita		Take my pulse.  It's good, isn't it?
frank		Perfect.
kanita		I knew it. I was wrong about you. You're not so bad.
larry		You're in the stomach!
frank		You sure?
rose		Rose!
frank		Huh?
rose		My name. Rose.
larry		You're in the stomach, man.
frank		One more time!
larry		Stomach again.
frank		No way!
coates		Frank, take it easy. what happened?
kanita		He flipped out.
coates		Be cool, man. You're having a paradoxical reaction. It can happen.  Didn't I tell you this guy was stressed out?
kanita		Stressed? He's psycho.
coates		Frank, where you going?
mary		I can walk.
mary		Let go of me.  You shouldn't have come up. I told you not to. You could have gotten us both killed.
frank		Because you can barely walk.
mary		You remember Noel, from the other night, how Noel is now? He wasn't always like that. He was my brother's best friend. Cy or Tiger or one of those other goons put a bullet in Noel's head. He was in a coma three months. Crazy ever since.
mary		What is it? You want to help me, you feel sorry for me? Keep it to yourself.
frank		I need to sit down a minute.
mary		Or maybe you wanna fuck me? Everyone else has.
frank		Hello, I'm Frank. Mary's friend. A very close friend who loves animals.
frank		No ...
frank		What if there is no tomorrow?
walls		Frank, what do you know. It's you and me again tonight, the Rough Riders, tearing up the streets just like old times.  This old bus is a warrior, Frank, just like us. I have tried to kill him and he will not die. I have a great respect for that.
griss		Don't make me take off my sunglasses.
frank		Morning, Griss.
nurse constance		We're full up tonight, Frank.
burke's voice		Go to the bank, boy, take out everything you can.
frank		Mr. Burke?
burke's voice		I'm going. I've had enough.
frank		You do it.
milagros		Can't reach. You're taller.
burke's voice		Don't do it.
frank		I thought he was getting better.
milagros		Technically, yeah. I suppose. It doesn't matter.
frank		Why not?
milagros		Tha family wants us to do everything to save him--so, that's it. They want to keep him alive, they want to believe in miracles, we keep him alive. Shock him, Frank. He'll come back. He always comes back.
frank		 Clear!
burke's voice		Ow!
milagros		Should I increase the lidocaine?
walls		Frank, what you doing back there?
frank		I'm sick, Tom. I need a cure.  Vitamin B cocktail, followed by an amp of glucose and a drop of adrenaline. Not as good as beer, but all I got.
walls		Come on, Frank. There's blood spilling in the streets.
frank		 These are hard times, Tom.
walls		Yeah. Great, isn't it?
frank		Great to be drunk. Sobriety's killing me.
walls		Look up, Frank. Full moon. The blood's gonna run tonight. I can feel it. Our mission: to save lives.
frank		Our mission is coffee, Tom. A shot of the bull, Puerto Rican espresso.
walls		Ten-four. El Toro de Oro. Blast off.
frank		The cure's not working, Tom. Maybe we should go back to the hospital.
walls		Don't worry, kid. Tom'll take care of you. Put your head out the window, get some of that summer air. Listen to the music. El Toro de Oro. Andale. Pronto.
dispatcher		Okay, units, it's suicide hour. Fourteen Boy, I show you in the hospital sixty minutes but I know you're in the diner on 14th. Put down the burger, I got a call for you around the corner, 14 and 3rd, a man with a noose around his neck and nothing to hang it on. Sixteen XRay, don't even think about getting coffee, I have a call for you too.
walls		 Sixteen XTerminator here. We like our coffee bloody. Make it good--my partner's dying to help someone.
dispatcher		You're in luck, X: your patient awaits you with bleeding wrists on Avenue C and Fourth.
frank		Tom, where are the Band-aids? This is an ambulance, isn't it?
walls		 Look out!
walls		What the hell's going on?
walls		Hold it. I will not take anyone anywhere against his will. This is America. People have rights.
walls		You're lucky you didn't kill him.  We're going to hear it straight from the loony's mouth. Are you crazy? Did you try to bump yourself off?
cut wrists		 Yesssss.
walls		Why didn't you say so.
frank		This is the worst suicide attempt I've ever seen. You feel the pulse? Here. That's where you cut, and it's not across, it's down like so.  Here take it.
cut wrists		 I can't.
frank		With all the poor people of this city who wanted only to live and were viciously murdered, you have the nerve to sit here waiting to die and not go through with it. You make me sick. Take it.
walls		We cured him, Frank. When we work together there's nothing we can't fix.
walls		 Sounds like they're trying to clean up the bus terminal tonight,
frank		C'mon, Tom. The city's burning.
walls		Whatja doing?
frank		I feel the need, the need for speed. I'm driving out of myself.
walls		The brakes are shot.
frank		I've taken that into consideration.
walls		You okay?
frank		I never felt better in my life.
dispatcher		Sixteen XRay, XRay.
frank		 X.
dispatcher		First of all, I want you to know how sorry I am about this. I've always liked you two. A unit above none, a legend in its own lunchtime, so it hurts me deeply to do this but I have no choice. You must go to Second and St. Marks. In front of a liquor store you'll find a forty year-old male, unconscious, lying next to his wheelchair. Do I have to say more?
frank		 You've said too much already.
walls		Mr. Oh.
frank		It's early for him.
walls		That's all right, we're not meant to do Oh tonight. Something is going to happen. I can feel it.
police dispatch		A jumper. Stuyvesant Town.
walls		Ten-four.   One minute out.
dispatcher		Sixteen, Sixteen XRay. Level One Emergency.
walls		Whadda we bring?
frank		Better bring it all.
frank		The elevator's fucked. We'd never all fit anyway. Let's go.
fireman		That's thirteen flights.
walls		The news guys just pulled up.
police sergeant		The stairs, men, the stairs.
walls		This guy a jumper?
cop		We got a call for shots fired on the sixteenth floor. The jumper called right after.
frank		 I'm going to sixteen.
cop		That's it, nobody else home.
frank		I'm going to thirteen.
walls		Get this, Frank--we got two patients. Number one, the scarecrow outside. Number two misses the railing but breaks both legs on the balcony, then throws himself through a glass window, heads to the bedroom, where he's now passed out.
frank		 Well, he's the steakhead of the night, then.
walls		I don't think the fire people can touch him out there.
frank		How's he doing?
walls		I haven't had a chance to see him yet. I'm going to take care of sleeping beauty.
frank		Does that hurt?
coates		 No!
frank		I don't think you've hurt any major organs.  We got to get you off this thing without setting off bleeding.
coates		I can't hold up my head anymore.
frank		You're going to live.
coates		I've been thinking about things. Meditating on my financial future. You guys gave me plenty of time to meditate on the future. Whatja do, stop for Chinese on the way over? There's plenty of food in my place.
frank		I was tired. I needed a coffee.
coates		What about Kanita?
frank		Dead.
coates		That's too bad. Get some money, a nice looking girl on your arm, and everyone wants to take a piece. Some kid I wouldn't let wash my Mercedes is in my house, shooting at me. Damn, I thought I could make it onto the balcony like Tiger. He's fat, that's why, falls faster. I'm trying to watch my weight, and look what happens. Am I shot, Frank?
frank		No.
coates		Boy can't shoot for shit, either. Goddamn that's hot.
cop		 Good thing we buckled you in, huh?
coates		What about me? Who's supposed to buckle me?
cop		 I thought you did.
cop		 I'm so sorry, sir.
hazmat		Nurse Crupp, we're going to need some Valium here. He's waking up again.
burke's voice		Don't. Don't do it.
hazmat		Give me a hand, Frank. I've got to get something between those teeth.
frank		How many times have you shocked him tonight?
hazmat		Fourteen. We finally got him a room upstairs. Should be up there in a couple of hours.
frank		What do you do, just have someone follow him around with a defribilator?
hazmat		 That's good, Frank. No, but they might surgically implant one, about the size of my thumb. It goes near the shoulder here, with two electrodes connected to the heart. It sends a shock whenever it senses a drop in blood flow. Amazing, isn't it?
frank		A medical miracle.
mary		Everyone, this is the medic who brought my father in. Frank, these are some of my father's friends.
family friend		We live out an the Island now, but we used to live right down the block from Pat. He was like a saint to us. Came as soon as we heard.
frank		 I'm going out for a smoke.
mary		I heard CY Coates was brought in. He looked pretty bad.
frank		He'll be all right.
mary		Too bad. He called me up today, can you believe that? I don't know how he got my number. He asks me do I want to come over and see him, I tell him I'd rather go to a leper colony. He says there's a new gang that wants to kill him, take over the business. I told him I hope he's right. That they kill him. That's what I told him.
frank		It'll be a while before he's up and running again.
mary		OK, last night I was weak. it won't happen again. And all that shit I said--it was just because I was stoned. Forget it.
frank		No problem. Thanks for letting me crash. It was the best sleep I've had in months. I used some of your soap.
mary		I wish these people would leave already. I can't listen to another story. Did you see him?  That doctor says the brain is coming around. They're waiting for the heart to stabilize. I don't know who to believe. He says they still have to keep him tied up.
frank		Can I bring you something back to eat--a falafal, some pizza?
mary		No, we just ate. I only remember how tough my father was. Now I know he had to be like that, to make us tough. This city'll kill you if you aren't strong enough.
frank		No, the city doesn't discriminate. It gets everybody.
mary		This is not a good time.
frank		There's no time.
walls		Get ready, Frank. Missed a drug shooting while you were dicking around in there. There's gonna be trauma tonight!
frank		As long as we keep moving. No standing still.
walls		 C'mon, look at your screen. Give up some blood!
dispatcher		Sixteen XRay, a man at the bus terminal shot three years ago says his arm hurts.
frank		C'mon, Tom, pick up a job.
walls		You want some bum in the bus terminal? We'll wait for a real call.
frank		Let's get in a fight, then.
walls		Who with?
frank		That's your job. Just keep driving, keep moving. No stopping. We're sharks. We stop too long, we die.
walls		What do you want to break?
frank		 I don't know--let's break some windows.
walls		Why?
frank		Destruction, distraction. I feel the need.
walls		You need a reason, Frank. You don't just go around breaking people's windows. That's anarchy.
frank		What's the reason? Give me a reason, Tom.
walls		Let me think.
frank		He's crazy. He can't help it.
walls		 Well, why don't they put him away? Prisons don't want him. I took him to the hospital yesterday and here he is again.
frank		Okay, whatta I do?
walls		If he sees me, he'll run, so I'll get out here. You start talking to him about baseball or something while I sneak around behind and get down and you push him. When he falls we get him.
frank		That's ridiculous.
walls		Believe me, it always works. The simpler, the better.
frank		You learn that in the army?
noel		Strawberry ain't shit. Drug pussy.  Me.  I swing like Reggie. Mr. October. Number three, game six, World Series.
frank		No, I'd better not.
noel		Sure, sure, give go.
frank		Yeah?
noel		Oh man, Bucky.
frank		The pitch, high heater. Bucky knows what's coming. He steps in, smash, over the green monster.
walls		Frank, what the hell are you doing?
rose's voice		Why did you kill me, Frank?
frank		I didn't mean to.
rose's voice		You should have helped me.
frank		I tried to help. I wanted to.
rose's voice		Don't you love me?
walls		I got him, Frank!
frank		 Get the kit! We're gonna tube him!
walls		Frank!
frank		Do it!
walls		 Frank!
frank		 Do it, Tom! I'll call for fucking backup, I swear!
walls		You're crazy.
frank		You're going to make it! You're going to make it!
nurse constance		Take him straight through.
griss		Who got that funky motherfucker this time?
frank		 Last show of the night.
hazmat		 Anybody else hurt?
frank		No.
hazmat		Crazy fucker.
frank		Where's Burke?
hazmat		Upstairs. 212. Had to shock him twice more.
floor nurse		What happened?  Code!
hazmat		Christ, what a way to start the day. He's in V-fib. Shock him.
floor nurse		Clear!
hazmat		Zap him again.
walls		Die!
frank		Frank.
frank		He's dead, Rose. Your father passed.
frank		He coded. They shocked him one too many times. I'm sorry.
frank		I'm sorry.
frank		Yes.
****Dialogues from script :Broadcast_News.txt****

gerald		I don't know a recent Saturday I've sold more.  You didn't think I'd sell that health restaurant, did you?
tom		No.  Not even you.
gerald		Why so glum?
tom		I don't know.
gerald		 Go ahead.
tom		No, nothing.  I've got a problem, I guess.
gerald		Were you bothering by those waitresses making a fuss?
tom		No.  But, honest.  What are you supposed to say when they keep talking about your looks?  I don't even know what they mean -- "Beat them off with a stick."
gerald		You know, Tom, I feel a little proud when people comment on your looks.  Maybe you should feel that way.
tom		Proud?  I'm just embarrassed that I like when they say those things.
gerald		As long as that's your only problem you're...
tom		It's not.
tom		I got my report card.  Three Cs, two Ds and an incomplete.
gerald		Oh my.  I see you studying so hard, Tom.  What do you think the problem is?
tom		I'll just have to try harder.  I don't know.  I will.  I will.  I will.  I will.
tom		Thanks, Dad, this talk helped.  Will you sign it, please?
gerald		 Would it help if I got you a tutor?
tom		 It better help.  What can you do with yourself if all you do is look good?
aaron		...and finally to the teachers of Whitman High School, I don't have the words to express my gratitude which may have more to say about the quality of the English Department here than my own limitations...
aaron		...that was, of course, not meant to be taken seriously.  A personal note. I am frequently asked what the special difficulties are in being graduated from High School two months shy of my fifteenth birthday.  I sometimes think it was the difficulties themselves which enabled me to do it. If I'd been appreciated or even tolerated I wouldn't have been in such a hurry to graduate.  I hope the next student who comes along and is able to excel isn't made to feel so much an outcast.  But I'm looking forward to college; this is the happiest day I've had in a long time.  I thank you and I forgive you.
male teacher		I'm always so confused by Aaron. Is he brave and earnest or just a conceited little dick-head?
aaron		Go ahead, Stephen -- take your last licks.  But this will heal -- what I'm going to say to you will scar you forever.  Ready?  Here it is.
aaron		You'll never make more than nineteen thousand dollars a year. Ha ha ha.
aaron		Okay, take this:  You'll never leave South Boston and I'm going to see the whole damn world.  You'll never know the pleasure of writing a graceful sentence or having an original thought.  Think about it.
youth tough		Nineteen thousand dollars... Not bad.
jane		 Dear Felatzia, it's truly amazing to me that we live a world apart and yet have the same favorite music. I loved the picture you sent and have it up on my bulletin board. You're growing so much faster than I am that I...
jane		 ...am starting to get jealous. I read in the newspapers about the Italian strike and riots in Milan.  I hope you weren't...
father		 Honey?...
jane		Oh God -- Daddy -- don't...don't... don't ever scare me like that -- please.
father		Jane -- For God's sake...  Look, it's time for you to go to sleep.
jane		I just have two more pen pals and then I'm done.
father		You don't have to finish tonight.
jane		 Nooo.  This way the rotation stays the same.
father		Finish quickly.  I don't want you getting obsessive about these things.  Good night.
jane		Dad, you want me to choose my words so carefully and then you just throw a word like 'obsessive' at me.  Now, unless I'm wrong and...  ...please correct me if I am, 'obsession' is practically a psychiatric term... concerning people who don't have anything else but the object of their obsession -- who can't stop and do anything else.  Well, Here I am stopping to tell you this.  Okay? So would you please try and be a little more precise instead of calling a person something like 'obsessive.'
jane		 Hi...It's me...
jane's voice		 It's thirty minutes before you have to meet me in the lobby -- nudge your wife.
jane		There's probably no time to eat... but there's a cafeteria at the bus depot once we get down there.  I love working with you two...It saves me a call.
aaron		Hi.  Turn on your TV... Good Morning America, the Morning News and Today are all about to talk to Arnold Schwarzenegger and I think he's live on at least two of them.
jane		At six o'clock on the wake-up news they used the wrong missile graphic.
aaron		 Now listen, Arnold just said that he's been making three million a movie now.  But he's not ever gonna change.  He's still the same person when he was making two million dollars a movie.  He feels no different.  He also bought a brand- new condo with Maria, they gonna furnish tastefully.
jane		A half hour in the lobby.
aaron		 Okay, I'll see you in the lobbies [sic].
aaron		Ready.
cameraman		Your hair's a little funny.
aaron		It's an ethnic curl, I can't do anything about it.
cameraman		In front of a little -- it's a bit... You want a mirror?
aaron		No -- Don't worry about it.  Let's do this.
cameraman		Okay.
aaron		In other times, for other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war.  He...
jane		 I'm sorry.  But look at how wonderful his face is.
aaron		Oh, you mean use him...That's nice.  Okay.
cameraman		I'll put him in the low corner of the frame -- good.
aaron		In other times, with other purposes, there might be a band and bunting here at the bus depot for J.D. Singer's return from war.  Last week he was decorated by a president for heroism in a war.  But it was the civil war -- in Angola -- and he was in it for the money.
aaron		Thanks.
aaron		Just a few questions?
aaron		We came from Washington.
aaron		 How long has it been since you've been home.
aaron		It depends on how big a news day it is.
jane		J.D.  I'm Jane Craig.  I spoke to you in Angola.  I gave you some sugarless gum and Handi-Wipes.
aaron		Where's where I asked him about being scared?  You should work on your speech.
jane		No.  It makes me nervous to think about it.  Let's do this.
aaron		 All this business of war -- do you get scared?
jane		I love that turn away.
jane		 There's a point I'm trying to make about these pieces coming up.
woman		 I don't think any client of mine makes less than fifty thousand dollars a year which means they can afford the best and you're damn right I feel good that that includes me.
woman two		 No.  You'd be surprised at who a working girl meets.  I've been a working girl for what? -- over a year anyway and that must be a thousand men and I don't think there's an age or type that hasn't been in there.
interviewer's voice		 Policemen?  -- Doctor? -- Lawyer...?
woman two		 Oh, sure.  Television reporters.
woman three		 I'm seventeen now and I've been working the streets for two years and I guess to be honest -- I stopped thinking of it as temporary.
jane		Please don't applaud.
jane		Please.  Don't!!  I gathered these pieces as an example of what's WRONG with local television news.
jane		The excerpts from THREE SEPARATE SERIES on prostitution were SIMULTANEOUSLY broadcast by all stations in one city during sweeps week.  By what bend of either or suspension of duty is that broadcast news?
jane		The legacy of Edward R. Murrow, Eric Sevareid, William Shirer, David Brinkley and Walter Cronkite is being squandered in a desperate popularity contest.  Our profession is in danger:
jane		Yesterday's compliment has somehow managed to become today's kiss of death.  To be considered a serious journalist is no longer flattering. It presents the risk of being labeled ponderous, or worse yet, elitest, right?
jane		All of you know what I'm talking about. We're all trying to act together than we are.  But we care.  So, we're all secretly terrified, aren't we?
jane		We are being increasingly influenced by the star system.  The network anchormen are so powerful they compromise our last best hope.  The current group is clearly qualified, tied still to our best traditions, but who follows these men?
tom		Wow.
female colleague		Oh, I've known so many women like that.  They don't like their looks so they're angry.
jane		I was going to talk about other trends but...  ...the magazine shows, news at profit, influence of Entertainment Tonight, the danger, the hope, the dream, the question...Oh, I was going to show you a tape -- a story that was carried by all networks on the same night -- the same night -- not one network noted a major policy change in Salt Two nuclear disarmament talks... Here's what they ran instead...Go ahead. Show the tape.
jane		 Well, you're lucky you love it -- you're going to get a lot more just like it.
tom		Hello.
jane		Hi.
tom		I just wanted to tell you  how great you were.  My name's Tom Grunick.
jane		 They hated me.  I don't hate them.
tom		Well, they say if you can reach even one person, it means something... And you did that.
jane		Would you like to have dinner with me?
jane		Hi.  I was worried I was early.
tom		I was a lot earlier.
tom		I kept thinking what a great break it was for me to get to see you tonight.  More than a great break, maybe just what I needed...just when I needed it...Angel of mercy -- godsend...lifesaver...what?
jane		 I like "godsend."
tom		I haven't been in news that long. I've just been looking for the right person to talk to.  I have about two thousand questions for you.
tom		It's possible now's not the right time.
jane		If we could just eat first.
tom		Totally understood.  Totally wrong of me to talk shop after the day you've had.  Totally sorry.
jane		Nooo.  If I could just have a roll, I'd be okay.
jane		Thank you.
jane		Another thing I can't stand -- Is this dull?
tom		No, no, no, no...
jane		 Another thing I can't stand is ...when White House reporters bullshit with each other after a briefing and then one of them has a theory and the other quotes it in his story as "White House" sources say...
tom		That actually goes on...
jane		Yes.  My room is down here -- I'm not tired.  Do you want to keep talking?
tom		Yes, sure.
jane		Come on...Even I'm not that hard on myself.
tom		No, I really got this job on a fluke and wait till you hear where it ends up.
jane		I was doing sports at the station. The newspaper ran this untrue story that I was leaving and they got all these tons of protest mail.  So they made me anchor.
jane		So great -- right?
tom		Except I'm no good at what I'm being a success at.
jane		How are you at back rubs?
jane		It's sort of normal -- the way you feel.  In graduate school everyone thought the only mistake the admission committee made was letting them in.
tom		Listen to me.  You keep on thinking I'm somebody ho lacks...confidence. That's not it.  I know I can talk well enough and I'm not bad at making contact with people, but I don't like the feeling that I'm pretending to be a reporter.  And half the time I don't really get the news I'm talking about.  It isn't that I'm down on myself.  Trust me, I stink.
jane		 I trust you.
tom		I didn't even have the chance to get really good at sports.  I wasn't bad. I thought I was starting to do interesting features but hockey is big at the station and...
jane		 What about the obvious remedy? Reversing things.  Maybe getting a job on a newspaper.
tom		I don't write.
tom		But that didn't stop me from sending out audition tapes to bigger stations and the networks.
jane		Well, come on -- it is your life. Nobody is tying you to the fast track.  Did you go to college?
tom		One year...almost one year.
jane		So, you're not well educated and you have almost no experience and you can't write.
tom		And I'm making a fortune.
jane		It's hard for me to advise you since you personify something that I truly think is dangerous.
tom		Uh-huh.
jane		 'I don't write.  I'm not schooled. I don't understand the news I'm reading. But at least I'm upset about it, folks.'
tom		Whoa, this was a mistake.
jane		Just what do you want from me, anyway? Permission to be a fake?  Stop whining and do something about it.
jane		Well, you don't have to start right now.
tom		I hated the way you talked to me just now...and it wasn't just because you were right.
jane		 No.  It wasn't just the speech -- the same thing happened with this guy.  I have passed some line some place.  I am beginning to repel people I'm trying to seduce.
aaron		 He must have been great-looking, right?
jane		Why do you say that?
aaron		Because nobody invites a bad- looking idiot to their bedroom.
aaron		Okay.  Let's do me.
jane		Sure.
aaron		Okay.  I feel like I'm slipping but do people who are actually slipping feel that way or is it always the really good people who are moving up who invariably think they're slipping because their standards are so high?
jane		This conversation is not worthy of you.
aaron		I'd give anything if that were true.
jane		 Good night.
aaron		Wouldn't this be a great world if insecurity and desperation made us more attractive?  If needy were a turn-on?
jane		Call if you get weird.
jane		 I was just thinking it was the shortest phone conversation we ever had.
tom		I never told you the reason I was telling you everything for.
jane		 Hey?
tom		Those audition tapes I sent out... I've been hired by your network for the Washington bureau.  So I'll probably see you at work.  Sorry.
jane		What???
aaron		They didn't hire Peter Stiller from the Times and he had a great audition tape.
jane		You want to start going over who they could have gotten?  They can't take on people like this for network news.  For God's sake.  What's going on?
ernie		Any particular area you feel strongest in?
tom		To be honest, I was best at anchor.
ernie		Why don't you take a few days observing the system?  Then we'll put you on general assignment.
jane		 Go back to 316, Bobbie.  The sound bite in the cab -- it starts, 'I don't know how I'll feel...'
bobbie		We could...
jane		 Please, Bobbie, we're pushing.
tom		They said I should observe the...
tom		They said it would be okay if...
jane		 We're working here!!  You can stand over in the uh, uh, uh...
jane		Play back the last line...
bobbie		He said something about...
jane		 Let me hear it!
blair		We'll need it in ten minutes.  We're putting it directly into...
jane		 Let me hear it!
mercenary		 It's been a long time since I've seen my folks and all but...I don't expect any big-deal homecoming.
jane		Stop there.  I want to shoot a picture from a book I have in the office.
blair		You don't have time.  Not a chance.
jane		 I'll be right down.  It's right tight.
blair		I've got to tell Ernie...because there isn't enough time.
jane		Yes, there is.
tom		I'm Tom Grunick.  I started on General Assignment today.
bobbie		I don't think she's going to make it.
klein		Okay, what about this?  Here's a tough ethical one.  Would you tell a source that you loved them just to get some information?
aaron		Yes.
george		Yes.
ernie		Me too.
jennifer		Sure.
aaron		Jennifer didn't know there was an alternative.
aaron		Here's one.  They allow us to have cameras at an execution in Florida. Do you broadcast tape of the guy  in the chair when they turn on the voltage?
klein		Sure.
jennifer		Why not?
ernie		Absolutely.
george		You bet.
aaron		Nothing like wrestling with a moral dilemma is there?
blair		Excuse me, Ernie, we're several minutes to air and Jane's shooting an insert still for tonight's piece.
ernie		She knows how much time she has.
blair		Okay.  I just wanted you to know.
aaron		What is she shooting?
blair		Norman Rockwell's 'Homecoming.'
aaron		 We'll need some new lines.
jane		Okay, Bobbie, just a two-second dissolve to the Rockwell.
bobbie		Should I...
jane		 Just a two-second dissolve.
blair		 Oh, Jesus, we have three minutes... Why do you do this to me.  Is it because I won an award?
aaron		Norman Rockwell's enduring portrait of a Homecoming  The return of a fighting man has always been one of the more moving ceremonies of war... Tearful women, proud men, excited children.  But J.D. Singer was right -- his homecoming was no big deal.
blair		We have a minute and a half.  It's my responsibility to tell them we won't be ready.
jane		Uh-uh.  We're be ready.
blair		In 84 seconds?
jane		 Nine seconds.
aaron		Eleven and a half.
jane		Oh, God.  Back it, Bobbie -- Bobbie?
blair		You're saying 'Oh, God..."  They are going to go to up and the screen will be black -- they're going to go to black because we're not there.  How about careers, huh?  How about careers?
blair		We're not going to make it.
bobbie		Whoops.
blair		 Whoops?!?  Whoops?!?  No, please... no, ooh, ahhh, ohhh.
aaron		Shit, shit, shit...
tom		 You're almost there, you can do it -- can do -- can do.
bobbie		Ready.
blair		I was a little nervous there for a minute.
aaron		Oh, come on -- tell us another.
bill		 Bill Rorish...Thank you...Good night.
jennifer		Look at that smile.  Oh, that was good and oh my, Bill smiled -- he liked it.
aaron		He loved it.  Big smile.
blair		I haven't seen Bill smile like that in weeks.
blair		Ernie, you missed his close... He smiled.  Thank you...Good night.
ernie		I saw the smile -- good piece.
aaron		I'm gonna go look at it again.
tom		I'm sorry if I was in the way.  It was totally impressive.  Great piece.
jane		 You weren't.  Thanks.  How does it feel being here?
tom		I can't believe I'm really here.  No kidding.  If you're through work now --
jane		No.  Aaron and I go to Central America on Wednesday -- so I'm cramming.
tom		I thought you were incredible in there. I know how much I have to learn.  I'd really -- a lot -- appreciate it...if...
jane		'Really a lot appreciate it...'
tom		You  make me nervous.  Anyway if I can pick your brain --
jane		I can't help you, sorry.  I'm not here to teach remedial reporting.
tom		And it has nothing to do with the fact I left your room instead of staying there?
jane		Oh, please.  You're gonna have to understand something.  This isn't personal.
aaron		I didn't sleep.  They're giving me less and less air time.  They don't think I'm at all anchor material.
jane		If we don't get to their camp soon, we won't be able to tape the supplies coming in.
aaron		Last time Paul was sick they gave Connie the weekend news instead of me.
jane		You spend too much time -- much too much worrying about that crap...  Oh good.
cameraman		Put on the boot.
jane		Stop!  We are not here to stage the news. Wait and see what he does.
jane		 Okay.
tom		Okay, I'll meet the crew there then. Could you give me that address again? Great.  Yes, it's good to finally be getting to work.  Okay that's
concierge		It's only ten minutes if you prefer to walk...  I'll look for you on the news tonight.
aaron		Thanks, you speak English very well too.  Great news.  He says they've been engaging the Sandinistas pretty regularly and that he'd be really surprised if we didn't take fire tonight.
aaron		Look at her.  If anything happens to me tell every woman I've ever dated I was talking about them at the end.  That way they'll have to reevaluate me.
jane		Let's tape.
cameraman		 Much too dark.  Black.
jane		That's okay.
aaron		The first shots were fired not thirty seconds ago.  The Contras feel they must be outnumbered this is so small a unit:  that's a given.  Still they hold their ground despite the fact that their weapons have been acting up -- misfiring or jamming.  A new shipment of rifles is expected tomorrow -- all they got today were the shoes.
jane		 Great line at the end.
aaron		Did you shoot their boots?
jane		Of course.
aaron		We can cut back at the end.
jane		To the pan of the supplies boxes --
aaron		Can you believe it?  I just risked my life for a network that tests my face with focus groups.
reporter		I think he's coming out now.
tom		 They say he's coming out now.
tom		 Is that him?
tom's cameraman		Yes.
cameraman		 What's wrong?
tom		I had a lot of questions here.  I missed the story.
cameraman		Don't worry, it's okay.  I got a piece of his face.
jane		Are you all packed and ready?
cameraman		The stuff in the dark is not good. Nobody wants news lit like that.
jane		Will you just get packed?
blair		Great graphic, great graphic.
ernie		You finally got a piece in a few minutes early and I hear Bill loved it.
tom		Hi.
jane		How's it going?
tom		Can I buy you dinner sometime soon?
jane		 I just got back -- I don't know which end is up.
tom		Okay.
blair		Jane!  Bill Rorish wants to speak to you at the break.  I never heard of him handing over compliments in the middle of the show.
bill		 Jane?
jane		 Yes.
bill		 Well, darling, if it gets any better than that, I'm going to have to bring you up here to New York.
jane		 Thanks.  I just wish you'd kept the first twenty seconds.
jane		 But thanks.
bill		 Well, the visual with the boots at the end was just perfect.
jane		God, he loved the boots.
jane		 Aaron should be hearing this so I have an extra witness.
bill		 Well, you always want to give the credit away, do you?
jane		 No, I don't.  He happens to deserve the credit.  He's right here.
bill		 I'll speak to you soon
jane		 He had to read over some new copy.
tom		 Okay if I watch you tape that interview downstairs?
aaron		Yeah.
aaron		Please laugh so they think I'm not dying inside but have so much style I just said something funny.
blair		What did he say?
jane		 I'll never tell.
buddy		Could I see how I photograph?
camerawoman		Huh?  Sorry?
buddy		'Cause for the interview they're going to use a screen and disguise me to protect my anonymity so could I see myself before that?
camerawoman		Sure.
aaron		It's Mr. Buddy Felton?
buddy		Yes.
aaron		That's your full name?
buddy		Yes.
aaron		I might as well ask you the questions on tape.  Is that all right?
buddy		Yes.
aaron		You worked at one time as Foreign Service Trainee in the State Department.
buddy		I was there two years and was promoted on merit nine times.
aaron		Eventually rising to...
buddy		Office Bimbo.  No, I'm sorry.
aaron		You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
aaron		Eventually rising to?
aaron		You're saying the fact that you're gay had something directly to do with your promotions?
buddy		I don't like the word gay.
aaron		Which would you prefer?
buddy		Ravenous homosexual.
aaron		Stop the tape, okay.  Forget it, Ellen.  Let's call security and get him out.
buddy		 Great time to act out, Buddy.  You won't be happy until you turn the whole world off.
buddy		They're not really going to call security are they?
tom		No, I don't think so.
buddy		How do I get out of here?
tom		Follow me.
buddy		 You talked me into it.
guard		Oh, you're the gay guy.  I was just coming to find you.
buddy		I'm leaving.
tom		 It's okay.
buddy		Sir?
tom		Oh, sure.  Okay.
buddy		Is there a regular bar around here?
tom		I've been doing some morning show stuff, but mostly radio -- that doesn't bother me.  I'm in no rush for anything.  It's just the snotty attitude, even if I have it coming, it's still...
buddy		Bad manners.
tom		Yes.  That's right.
buddy		I know...I mean you didn't do anything special for me tonight.  You just had what I think are good manners, decency. And it really makes me want to be nice back and it has nothing to do with any homosexual thing.  Because I don't know if you've homosexual or not and -- you're not, are you?
tom		No...no.
buddy		One's enough.
tom		I really have to go.
buddy		Okay.  At least let me show my appreciation.  The Secretary of Labor is going to be indicted on Wednesday. For the graft thing he supposedly did before he was appointed.
tom		What?
buddy		Yes, it's true.  They're going to make it public Wednesday but isn't it a big deal for you to have it a day and a half early?
tom		Yes.  How do you know?
buddy		 My roommate's very social -- somebody from Justice was over and...I always hear things before they happen.  Hey, and from now on, so do you.
george		I'm virtually certain it's not true. He may be indicted eventually, but I don't think it will be this month.
ernie		 You want to be alone with me -- tell me your source?
tom		If I told you I'm not sure it would totally convince you, but I totally believe the guy.
george		 Labor is my Department -- I can't conform it and my contacts go very deep.
tom		So if it's true -- I'm terrific, right?
ernie		It's not even a close call.  Of course we can't go with it.
bobbie		Do you want him all the way to the car?
jane		No stop where he's all besieged.
bobbie		Because...
jane		 Right there, Bobbie.
tom		So he was indicted?
jane		Yes.
george		We were right not to go with it.
tom		But I was right -- just somebody give it to me.  I had a good story.
jane		 Give it to him -- so we can concentrate.
tom		Ah, I don't want any credit.  Bobbie and I serve anonymously.
bobbie		 You know, I like Tom, because hi...
jane		Bobbie, please.
buddy		...and the White House is hoping to keep a lid on it for a few days till they figure out what to do.
tom		Thanks a lot, Buddy.
buddy		 Oh, please.  So they were really impressed with you at work.
tom		Not impressed exactly -- but a break in the clouds.
buddy		I see the change in you -- I see it.
tom		 So he bought this Peugeot sedan at a greatly reduced price while he was there in charge of the White House Advance Team.
jennifer		How come you're not chasing it down yourself?
tom		Look, I'm junior man -- and it's your beat.
jennifer		Boy, that's nice...I wish we could all deal with each other like this. I'll check it.  Anything I can do for you?
tom		This is my first time at the White House. Is there any chance to look at where he works and the rest of it?
jennifer		I didn't have the guts to ask when I first came up.  I'll get you a great tour.
jennifer		 The President says it's not a violation but nonetheless White House sources say the full price will be paid for the Peugeot and new rules will put future bargain hunting off limits for Presidential Aides.  This is Jennifer Mack at the White House.
buddy		Forgive me, but it really is intoxicating being a news source.
tom		Nobody else had it.
buddy		I wish it were you giving the story.
tom		That's okay.
buddy		What if we just don't tell them anything anymore unless they let you do the story?
tom		No.  Really...don't worry about it.
buddy		Okay.  And look, in the future I can call you when I have news for you. Don't feel you have to spend time with me just to get the information.  Well, that wasn't as hard to say as you thought, was it, Buddy?
tom		What do you mean?  You're one of the few people in this town I can talk to.
buddy		Hoooo.
tom		Hey, Buddy, don't do that anymore.
buddy		 Okay.
jane		Hi, how are you?
tom		Wait -- I need you.
tom		I've got another story.
jane		Some public official skipped a week on his Christmas Club?
tom		The House Armed Service Committee has a secret report which says that the General Stillwell tank the Army has dumped a fortune into plain won't work.  I have it cold, confirmed.  They have five million dollars in this thing already.
jane		Billion.
tom		Okay, billion...right, of course. They told me I could have any producer I wanted -- and I want you.
tom		 One source referred to it as a five billion dollar metal sculpture to ugly to look at and too big to bury.
aaron		 You write this?
jane		I write for you sometimes.
aaron		Not because you have to.
tom		 General Elton McGuire is in charge of the weapon system.
general		I've been in the Army twenty-seven years -- so I'll let the Army ask the questions, not you.
tom		General, I don't want to bother you anymore or your family.  But tomorrow there will be a mob of me back here -- so, if you have anything to say, why not say it now, sir, the way you want?
blair		I think it's great of us to have left in what you said -- just great of us.
aaron		Yeah, let's never forget.  We're the real story.  Not them.
jane		Yeah, I know, I went back and forth on it.
blair		I liked it.  He's not afraid to be human.
ernie		My youngest wanted to meet you. This is Ellie.
tom		Hi, Ellie.
ernie		You should be honored -- she never cares about meeting anyone here.  But she liked you on television just now.
aaron		 Hi, Ellie -- remember me?
ellie		I'm sorry -- from where?
aaron		I've been to your house a lot...
ernie		 And Aaron went on that fourteen day raft trip with us last year.
ellie		 Oh yes -- hi.
tom		 Hey, Dad -- I just may be able to do this job...Well, I'm glad you were sure.
blair		I don't know why we have to feel defensive about it.  Newspapers are in business to make money -- why not us?
blair		They criticize us for supposedly pandering while they run WINGO Games.
blair		Goodbye, Paul.
aaron		Take care, Paul.  It takes a certain kind of courage for you to say that in front of the President of the News Division.
blair		You think anyone who's proud of the work we do is an ass kisser.
aaron		No.  I think anyone who puckers their lips and presses it against his boss' buttocks and then smooches is an ass kisser.
blair		My gosh, and for a while there, I was attracted to you.
aaron		Wait a minute -- that changes everything.
jennifer		This is very awkward.
jane		Go ahead -- what?
jennifer		Ummm -- it's dumb dorm stuff but I see Tom around you a lot and this is such a small office and I'd like to see him outside of work, unless there's some reason for you to mind... in which case I just won't do anything.
jane		God Almighty -- Whew.  Do I mind? Why do I mind?  I do mind.  What a shock -- I don't have a right to... I don't think I like him.  I know I don't respect him...So what am I talking about -- what am I saying to you?
jennifer		You're saying stay away from him.
jane		 I can't be.
jennifer		We don't have to settle this definitively right now.
george weln		Tell me one person who ever left television news to work on a newspaper.
ernie's wife		 I felt so proud when he turned down News Vice President so we could stay here.  Suddenly, after all these years, we have a life.
jane		 Hi, Tom.
tom		It's the firs time I've seen you dressed like this.  You look so clean and pretty.
jane		What do you mean clean?
tom		At work there's always this sort of film over you.
jane		Well, thumps like me leave appearance to guys like you.
tom		You're great at taking the edge off a good time.
tom		You okay?
jane		Yes.  Just don't say anything mean for a while.  Thanks.
jane		I've got to find someone.  It's important.  Excuse me.
ernie		I had the strangest thing happen yesterday.  Anne and I have been married what? -- Thirty-six years... Everything fine -- two days after the promotion came through, I was checking myself in the mirror and she was making a face at me behind my back. So yesterday I looked in the mirror and she was doing it again.
aaron		You didn't say anything to her?
ernie		My instincts tell me not to.
anne		The office is phoning, honey.
anne		I hope he moves that fast when it's me on the line.
jane		Jennifer.  Hey, Jennifer.
jane		Forget what I said -- you do whatever you want to with him.
jennifer		Well, there's nothing I'm going to do right this second.
jennifer		But it's a party, right?
ernie		This would be a good time to tap that source of yours.  He could have an angle or something.
ernie		 We want you to exec produce a Special Report...
jane		What?
ernie		A Libyan plane shot up one of our bases in Egypt.  It's all still happening.
jane		Let's figure out the field.
ernie		Unfortunately, since Paul's here, he's made out the assignments... Jennifer at the White House... George at the Pentagon...Martin at State...and we need an anchor since Rorish is in his boat, so we're gonna do the whole report this afternoon from here...with Tom.
aaron		That's it.  I resign as of now.
ernie		 Stop it.
aaron		I'll tell you what.  I'll stay if Tom knows how to spell Gaddafi.
jane		Ernie, as much as I like you, I think I have to tell Paul what I think, because this is really sort of obscenely stupid.
ernie		Jane, if you want to, go ahead.  I don't disagree with you.
tom		Hello, Buddy.  It's 1:35 -- and this is Tom.  You can reach me at the office.  It's important. I can use a little help.
jane		Tom isn't ready for the job you're about to hand him.  Not near ready.  Not by the longest shot.  Aaron's spent six weeks in Tripoli, he's interviewed Gaddafi -- he reported on the Eight-one story.  I think he's essential to do the job we're capable of and I think it's my responsibility to tell you that.
paul		Okay, that's your opinion.  I don't agree.
jane		It's not opinion.
paul		You're just absolutely right and I'm absolutely wrong?
paul		It must be nice to always believe you know better.  To think you're always the smartest person in the room.
jane		 No, it's awful.  Oh my, it's awful.
jane		 We'd better get moving.
aaron		What happened?
jane		I'll tell you later -- where you going to watch from?
aaron		Watch? --
jane		I'll come by your place, right after...drink, take pills... Love you.
aaron		Yeah, love you, too.
jane		Nervous?
tom		Excited.
jane		Tell George and Jessica to try and cover everything without Tom having to ask additional questions.
blair		And Bobbie says...
jane		Did you hear what I just said -- do you have that?  Take a breath.
blair		 Yes.
jane		And the most important thing make sure his earpiece works, have back-ups ready.  That's never been more vital.  He must be able to hear me at every second and clearly.
jane		We have twenty minutes -- you can wait in the studio.
jane		Put in the radar plane that spotted them to begin with.
graphic artist		We have no pictures on file.
jane		I can't draw -- but this is a rough idea.
guard		I have to check first.
buddy		 Well, then check -- but hurry -- There he is!!!
buddy		Is everything all right?
tom		Yes.  You didn't have to come here. It's just that I'm going to anchor this special report on this Libyan thing...
buddy		 Anchor?
tom		 What's wrong?
buddy		I broke up with my roommate -- He was really the magnet for everyone who knew anything.
tom		Oh.
buddy		Look, I can start up with him again if you really...
tom		No.  I'm doing fine...Look.
buddy		Good.  He's on the world's longest ego trip, let him take it alone.
tom		Hey, okay.  Look Buddy -- I've got to go to work.
buddy		 ...good-bye then.
tom		I'll speak to you.
buddy		Well, who knows.  Just let m tell you what my favorite teacher ever, told me -- 'Don't be afraid to be wonderful.'
blair		 Executive Producer -- wow.
jane		You hear me, Tom?  Tom?  Tom? Damn it...He can't hear me...  I told you if there was one thing...
tom		 I can hear you.  I was just teasing.
announcer's voice		 ...in Washington, Tom Grunick.
tom		Good afternoon.  A Libyan fighter plane attacked a United States Military Installation early this morning and was, itself, shot down by American F-14 Interceptors.
man one		Mr. Moore, I'm Marvin Usher and this is my brother, Stuart.
paul		Not now!!!  Look.
tom		The Libyan Missile destroyed an Army Warehouse which, just thirty minutes earlier, had been crowded with servicemen.  No one was injured.
aaron		 And I can read while I sing.
tom's voice		 The heat seeking missile virtually disintegrated the  plane on...
jane		George, you're ready.
george		 Should I cover everything or should I save something for Tom to ask about?
jane		Cover everything!
jane		 We're going to George.  Say 'the Joint Chiefs are meeting -- we have George Weln at the Pentagon'.
tom		George Weln is at the Pentagon where the attack launched by the lone Libyan pilot has resulted in a massive movement of military might.
aaron		A lot of alliteration from anxious anchors placed in powerful posts.
blair		It's Aaron.
jane		Yes?
aaron		I think the pilot that shot down the Libyan in 1981 is stationed right here.  Maybe you could get him -- and maybe Tom should say that our F-14 is one of the hardest planes to fly. They're nicknamed 'Tomcats'.
jane		Thanks.  Oh, you call them 'Tomcats' and in the 70's the first crop had a number of crashes.
tom		George, isn't the F-14 Tomcat one of the most difficult machines for a pilot to master?
george		I think you're right -- it's certainly one of our hottest planes.
aaron		I say it here -- it comes out there.
tom		 There was trouble with them in the early days -- back in the 70's.
aaron		 Me again.  Hi.  Listen Gaddafi doesn't foam at the mouth or anything.  When you speak to him he's not at all nuts. He seems like a leader -- very impressive, self-control...that's what's so strange.
jane		Right and we have the '81 pilot on the way in -- Nobody else will have him.
aaron		 You're welcome.  Sow how does it feel to...I know you gotta go -- Me too.  We're very busy here.
tom		 ...outlaw nation but strangely those who have interviewed Gaddafi find him, in a phrase we like to use in this country, very 'presidential'.
aaron		Nice, Jane.
jane		 Just a minute.
jane		 What?  No!
jane		We only have ten minutes left -- how can you talk to me about parking problems?  No, not you'll try...you'll do it -- do it or I'll fry your fat ass, Estelle.  Good-bye.
paul		 I had no idea she was this good.
jane		 Fill for a second.
tom		 In other words, I think we're okay.
tom		...So, Commander, it must have been a bit tougher today -- shooting down the French-made Mirage Jet.  The one
tom's voice		...Once again:  The Libyan Government has disavowed any prior knowledge of the flight.  This has been Tom Grunick reporting from Washington.
paul		He was brilliant.  I've never been as proud of one of my decisions.
ernie		 Great work, Jane, really -- You know? Really.
jane		Well, there were no major gaffs anyway.
jane		Thanks, everybody.
paul		 This was important for Tom -- there's that bonding thing that happens with the public and an anchorman during a crisis.  It's not the conventions anymore; it's this kind of moment.
paul		 What a baptismal.  Congratulations.
tom		Thanks.  With all the help you get, it's sure easier than local.
ernie		 Can I help you?
marvin		We're here to play the new news theme.
ernie		New theme?  You don't need me for this.
paul		Stay.  Why should I be the only one to feel silly?
man one		We need a synthesizer -- but this will give you an idea.
paul		Go ahead.  Wasn't he great?
ernie		It worked.
tom		You're an amazing woman.  What a feeling having you inside my head.
jane		 Yeah.  It was an unusual place to be.
tom		Indescribable -- you knew just when to feed me the next thing, just a split second before I needed it.  There was a rhythm we got into, like great sex.
tom		You have to celebrate with me, don't you?  Everybody's going to that bar on the corner, 'Caps.'
jane		I'm going over to Aaron's.  Maybe I'll hoop up with all of you later.  How long do you think you'll be there?
tom		It's tempting to ask you how you think I did.  No.  I'm enjoying myself.  Take it easy.
jane		 Maybe I'll see you over there.
tom		You'll never show up.
tom		Jane?
jane		Yeah?
tom		I'll wait for you till seven.
jane		 Okay.
jane		Really?  It was good.
jane		Your calling in that information -- you're the classiest guy I know.
aaron		It was strange to watch him.  What's the next step?  Lip synching?
aaron		I've been doing some of the most important thinking of my life.  I wonder if this is the right time to tell you about it.
jane		Well, whatever you think.
aaron		I figured out exactly why it is I'm so hung up on getting a chance at weekend anchor...It's because if I do that well, they'll pay me more, treat me great and my life will be better.  That's why.
jane		Sounds like you may be on to something.
aaron		Which means I'm at their mercy and who wants that?...I'm not going to tell you where this thought led me... Anyway, well, why not  tell you? -- it's a happy thing.  In the middle of all this I start to think about something that does nothing but make me feel good and makes immediate sense and that's you ...And I'll stop here but, Jane, I'd give anything if you were two people so I could call up the one who's my friend and tell her about the one I'm in I...I don't think I should go any further.  Come on -- I'll walk you to the corner.
jane		You know you've had a strange day... I'd sleep on all these things you've been thinking.
aaron		Absolutely...You go have a good time... You have some place to go?
jane		Yes.
aaron		Good.
aaron		Well, I felt something.
jane		We're going to Caps Bar at Seventeenth and Vermont; Connecticut is clear on Sunday... take that over to Fifteenth, then around Vermont and we'll bypass the circle that way...if you don't go over forty we should catch mostly green lights.
jane		Come on -- don't take it the wrong way.  I just know about things.
driver		Great route.  I never made anywhere near that fast before.
jane		Thanks -- good driving --
driver		Thanks.  Coming from you I appreciate it.
jane		Thanks.
tom		I didn't think you'd make it.
jane		Well, I thought I'd check if all of you were still here.  I'll just go in and join the gang and you two go on.
tom		There's no gang in there -- We were the last ones.
jane		Well, I'll go in and have a bite.
tom		 Jennifer, you want to have another drink?
jane		Hey, I know how to have a burger by myself.  I feel like a little solitude.
jennifer		 I sure know that feeling.  Terrific work today.
jane		 Right back to you.
tom		Thanks for getting me through.
jennifer		 Damn all you sons-of-bitches.  Oh shit, you bastards...
jennifer		Sorry.
tom		No, it's okay...People say different things.  They do...the plural threw me.
jennifer		The last time I was with someone we went through this awful mutual disease questionnaire but I guess it beats getting paranoid the next day.  Okay, I'll go first.  I haven't...
tom		 It would never occur to me to worry at all about you.
jennifer		You know something?  I'm deeply complimented.   Isn't it strange to be deeply complimented because the man you're with doesn't think you have a venereal disease?...
jennifer		Give me some of that.
tom		Where's the bathroom?
jennifer		Through the closet.
jennifer		I converted a bedroom -- this stuff builds up.  Wait till you've been doing this sixteen years.
tom		I'm not knocking it.  It's a great solution.  Not only the storage but you can see everything you have.
jennifer		Do you do bunny rabbits?
tom		Isn't this a great date?
jane		 God help me.
aaron		Jesus, Jane.  How long have you been here?
jane		A long time.  I was restless. Will you crack my neck?
jane		Aaah --  They want me to be at the management meeting.
aaron		They're not that dumb, after all.
blair		Do you know you're the second woman in network news history to produce?
jane		 No, I'm not.  I'm the fourth. Joan Richmond.  Pauline Fredericks got that credit once on a U.N. special and there's Susan Zirinsky.
paul		Anyway, they seem to be very serious about making me out eight million from the budget and that means massive firings. I'm doing everything I can... It's too early to make up a 'death list' but I just wanted you to be aware of the situation... We're also going to cover the Alaskan serial killer trial on a continuing basis.  I'd like it done out of Washington which means we've got to get somebody on a plane for Anchorage. We can't fool around anymore...Jane...
jane		 Jennifer.
jane		Come on, I'll buy you a drink. There's a big thing over at the Italian embassy.
tom		I'm not sure I'd be good company tonight.
jane		 I'll be the judge of that.
jane		It's much too soon for you to have this kind of buzz around you.
tom		Do I have to stand here in the middle and meet them all?
jane		I'll get you through.  Move and smile.  And smile and move...
egyptian businessman		Is it safe for me to fly home?
tom		Yes.  We're fine now.
jane		AND SMILE.
jane		AND MOVE.
martin klein		The Italians serve the second best things right after the Chinese...I could do an article comparing Embassy food...Gourmet free-loading...sell it anyplace.  I'm sure not getting the assignments.
aaron		Who the heck could that be?
aaron		Is God testing me or something?
martin klein		Paul loves him.  I heard him give him the most poetic compliment in his command.  'He's hot.'  Sometimes groups of executives get together just to say that work back and forth...'He's hot, oh, she's hot.  Oh, he's really hot.'  Hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot-hot...  And here we are.
aaron		Martin, you're not allowed to use the word 'we' or I'm moving.
martin klein		 Maybe Jane would like my food idea as a spot...Try the one in the middle.
tom		Hi, Aaron...What's doing?
aaron		Same old stuff.  I'm watching a man who won three Overseas Press Awards pitch an hors d'oeuvre idea.
tom		You want to go out there --  get out of this for a second?
aaron		Why don't you lead?  I'll just follow the flurry you cause.
tom		What did I do to you?
aaron		You've made my dreams silly.
tom		 Heavy hitters.
aaron		 How you doing?
tom		 Great.  Network news, Washington... I love it.  What do you do when your real life exceeds your dreams?
aaron		Keep it to yourself.
tom		You know the other day I really wanted your reaction to how we did with the Libyan report -- I was going to ask but I guess I feel a little intimidated with you.
aaron		Oh, stop it.
aaron		You can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world.  It's unseemly.
tom		I'm not buying into any of that.  I have a load to learn.  I'm not going to act as if...
aaron		 You have the job you have...
tom		Shut up a second...
aaron		 Okay.  Pretty petty party, isn't it, pal?
tom		 I made one rule for myself when this started and I realized I was going to take a lot from you people because of being from sports...
aaron		And the rule was...
tom		Never to pretend to know more than I did.
aaron		Can you name all the members of the Cabinet?
tom		 Okay, let's drop it.  I didn't mean I'd take a test for you -- I mean if that came up in conversation I'd...
aaron		We're conversing...Oh my, the names of the entire Cabinet has slipped my mind.  What are they?
aaron		 Don't name them.  Just tell me if you know.
tom		Yes, Aaron.  I know the names of the Cabinet.
aaron		Okay.
tom		Yes.
aaron		There are only ten.
tom		You're feeling good, aren't you?
aaron		 I'm starting to... We may do the capitols of the states.
tom		 Fifty, right?
tom		I'm so exhausted.  Punchy.  Sick tired.  I can't think and I can't move. I'm just a dead lump of poured out flesh.  Would you like to come up?
tom		Maybe we could just sit here -- talk a little?
jane		Okay.  You didn't like the party, huh?
tom		Too many smart people in one room -- it's not healthy...
tom		I'm going to have to do a story from beginning to end on my own.
jane		Eventually.  Does it have to be right now?
tom		 Believe me, I wouldn't be doing this unless it was absolutely necessary. I have an idea for something.
jane		What?
tom		I just read about it in a magazine and it affected me.
jane		Well, what is it?
tom		If I tell you, can you manage not to put it down or tell me why it won't work or is in bad journalistic taste or anything like that?
jane		 Yes, Tom -- I think I can manage.
tom		It's about women who are attacked by someone they know on a date... 'Date-rape,' that's the piece... Well?
tom		Okay -- good move.  Keep it there.
jane		Hello.
to		 Hello?
jane		Hello...Who is it?
tom		I'm not sure I dialed right -- Jane?
jane		Jane, yes.  Tom?  Tom, is that you? Is this Tom?
tom		Yes.
jane		I had to sleep fast so I took two allergy pills to help me...I'm sorry...Hey, you called me.
tom		It's not important.
jane		Says who?  Not important -- ha-ha-ha. I was dreaming -- Oh, no -- can't tell -- how embarrassing for me. Gosh.
tom		What pills did you take?  You sound more like someone on a general anesthetic.  Maybe I'd better speak to you tomorrow.
jane		Nooo.  Is it your story?
tom		No.  Are you going to the Correspondents' Dinner on Saturday?
jane		Why, you need me for the story?
tom		No.  Were you going to you?
jane		Uh-huh.
tom		Maybe I'll get off work.  I'd like to go.
jane		Oh, good.
tom		We can go together.
jane		So you like me, huh?
tom		I like you as much as I can like anyone who thinks I'm an asshole.
tom		 But cops on the street continue to view it as... Shit -- too long.  But street cops say...that fits.  That last cut work for you, Bobbie?
bobbie		Yes, and thanks for asking.
uniformed cop		What can you do?  If a woman invites a man in and he says they uh, had sex and she says he raped her and then you find out they've been out together two, three times...how can you prove a crime?
young woman		It will be a year next month since it happened...I never thought I'd talk about it outside of counseling...
aaron		Hi.
young woman		We'd gone out twice and I hadn't enjoyed myself that much but it gets to a point -- I don't know if you can appreciate this but where you don't want to sit home or be with your girlfriends and people had always been telling me that I was 'too picky.' I'm not.  It's just you want to meet a nice guy...So anyways, it was that 'give-him-a-chance' thing.  No, it wasn't.  I was lonely.  So we went to a movie and when he brought me home he said could he just come up and have one beer and then he'd go.  How do you say 'no', to that?  So first it was this wrestling match which was awful enough because it got to be really a fight...because I'm a modest person... then he ripped my clothes and he forced me to...make love.  He stayed in my apartment and forced me more times -- he didn't leave until...  ...I was so sure I wouldn't do this -- but the whole thing messed me up -- maybe more than it should...
aaron		Can I turn on the news for a second? ...Oh, wait a minute.  Sex -- Tears -- This must be the news.
public official		I don't think you can overestimate it -- on any given Saturday night tens of thousands of women are being attacked and there isn't much they or we can do about it...
tom		 The victims often remain too terrified to talk -- the police powerless and all the social welfare groups can finally do is monitor this epidemic of crime without punishment.  This is Tom Grunick in Annandale, Virginia.
aaron		I'm in a pissy mood.  I'm sorry.
tom		What's wrong with it?
aaron		Nothing.  I think you really blew the lid off nookie.
jane		 I've got to get a crew off the clock.
tom		So what did you think?
jane		It moved me.  I did relate to it -- I really did.  It was unusual for you to cut to yourself when you tear up -- and that might not have been my choice...but it's real and it got me...and I think a lot of the time I'm too conservative about that kind of stuff.  Okay?
tom		 Yeah.
jennifer		Tomorrow the jury returns to this site as each day brings more revelations of horror, four more bodies now taken from the frozen earth...This is Jennifer Mack in Wota Hamlet, Alaska.
blair		Ernie's been looking for you.
ernie		Oh, I was just writing you a note. What do you say we take a walk?
aaron		 Outside?
ernie		Yeah --
ernie		I don't know if we have any younger man more respected in our operation than you.
aaron		Just tell me what's really going on.  I think we know each other well enough for me to expect that.
ernie		 We know each other well enough for me to care how I put something to you which could wipe you out. So I will phrase things the way I think they should be phrased.  All right?
aaron		Wipe me out?
ernie		Anyway.  I want you to think of this as...
aaron		Just blunt talk, okay?  I'd really appreciate bluntness.
ernie		Upper management thinks you're dull.
ernie		Aaron, I've never seen them like this -- I think Paul's nervous about his own job and for some reason he thinks you only appeal to...
aaron		Wait.  Bullshit me a little...I'm beginning to appreciate it.
ernie		I'm no suggesting the worst will happen...but someone with your brilliance gets nibbles about other jobs and maybe, the next time that happens, down the road -- you should look into it.
aaron		 Ah, damn -- the fucking jerks -- My, God.  They want to fire me.
ernie		All I know is that they've got to fire a large number of people... and they're not going by seniority. There's a recklessness in the air. They...
aaron		 Do one thing to me?  Get me one shot at anchoring the Weekend News -- they've never seen me do it.  I think it could turn them around.
ernie		I could do it this Saturday -- everyone wants off for the Correspondents' Dinner.
aaron		Do it then.
ernie		Please prepare carefully.  This couldn't come at a better time.
aaron		Prepare what?  You have Saturday's news handy?
ernie		It's been a while since you read the news -- I'll have somebody work with you.  Just on superficial performance things.
aaron		Okay.  I think I'd better be alone for a while.
ernie		I understand.  I'll go with you.
aaron		Thanks.
aaron		This is uncomfortable for me -- because, well, I don't mean it as a knock, but we approach this differently.
tom		We sure do.  I don't mean it as a knock either.  Go ahead.  I'll just say what I think and you can disregard it if you want.
aaron		It just might not work for me because of our different approaches.
tom		Wait.
aaron		What?
tom		Your coat jacket is rising up in back.
tom		When you sit down -- sit on your jacket a little -- that gives you a good line.  Look at yourself in the monitor.
aaron		 I don't like being handled.
tom		Sit on it!  Now look.
aaron		Just don't physically...  Fantastic tip -- fantastic.
tom		No.  That's not going to tell us anything.  Let's get this prompter going.
aaron		It's not loaded.
tom		I'll find some copy.  Be right back.
tom		I got copy, I got Ellen to heat up the camera and I got Master Control taping so you can study it later.
aaron		Hey, Tom...
aaron		I'm very appreciative.
tom		No.  No.
aaron		No?
tom		Don't let your eyes go from the beginning of the sentence to the end like that.  You don't want to look shifty, do you?
aaron		Oh, God, no!
tom		And the left side of your face is the good one.  Go again.  And try to punch one word or phrase in every sentence -- punch one idea a story.  Punch -- come on --
tom		Good...very nice.
aaron		Thank you for the compliment, Tom.
tom		Try not to move your head or wrinkle your forehead...this is good, very good...
tom		You were smokin' toward the end there.
aaron		The pointers were great.  I'll study the tape.
tom		And remember -- you're not just reading the news or narrating.  Everybody has to sell a little.  You're selling them this idea of you.  You know, what you're sort of saying is, 'trust me.  I'm, uh, credible.'  So whenever you catch yourself just reading...stop and start selling a little.  So long.
aaron		I spilled some rum on the outfit you picked out.  Let me show you the alternates.
jane		 Tom...why don't I meet you there? I've got some last minute stuff I've got to take care of...Hey, how did you resolve your dilemma -- did you rent the tux or buy it...I knew it. How much?  Wow...Okay...See you there...
aaron		I didn't know you were going with him.
jane		Did you bring your grey suit?
aaron		Yes...I was thinking that way too... Which tie?
jane		 Thanks.  Try this one.
jane		I read about it -- that's how you can make sure you don't put on too much perfume...
aaron		Could you at least pretend that this is an awkward situation for you -- me showing up while you're getting ready for a date.
jane		 It's not a date.  It's co-workers going to a professional conclave.
jane		 How long will it tale you to send one?...
jane		You look terrific.
aaron		Really?
aaron		Because this is important -- so don't just be polite.  I'd really like to look...what's the word I'm looking for?...
jane		As good as humanly possible.
aaron		Yes.
jane		Well, the line of the jacket -- No really....just very nice...just right. I wish I could be there.
aaron		Me too...Hey...if it gets dull a little before 11:00, drop by the studio.
jane		I'm not sure I'll be able to...I...
aaron		If...if not, I'll have the tape...I'll wait for you at my apartment.
jane		Okay, great -- good luck.
aaron		Thanks, Jane.  Have a good time tonight.
jane		You too.
aaron		I'd hug you, but why risk mussing either of us?
man one		The L.A. times is a great outfit.  Best severance pay in the business.
man three		He was lecturing me and finally I just said -- I'm sorry, I refuse to look at it as a negative that I'm young and my news appeals to people my age.
woman		And it's not like he just didn't hire a twenty-six-year-old producer himself.
man		No kidding, twenty-six.
jane		 If he doesn't see me soon, we're not supposed to be together.
tom		 It's incredible who's here.
jane		Who?
tom		Me!
aaron		Want to look at this?
george		 What are you doing here?
aaron		 The weekend news...anchoring... anchoring the weekend news.
george		Way to go.
aaron		Thanks.  Oh, there's water on the set, isn't there, in case I get an attack of cotton mouth.
aaron		 I'll be fine!  Yes!!  I know!!!
tom		How you doing, Paul?
paul		So this is why you wouldn't do the Weekend New, you can't turn down a free meal.
tom		Yes, born to party.
paul		I'll see you two inside -- I think we're all at the same table.  You're finally learning to be flexible. Glad you changed your mind about Tom.
jane		I'm sorry.  I don't want to go in there and sit with everybody.  I can't...why don't you go?
tom		Suppose I go in for a little while and you wait in the lobby-bar.  How's that?
jane		Good.  That's it...See you.
tom		Jane.
tom		You're not going to take off on me, are you?
jane		Uh-uh.
tom		I just want you to know that my giving up the Correspondents' Dinner puts tremendous pressure on you.
floor manager		Twenty seconds.
floor manager		Ten seconds.
aaron		How many?
floor manager		Ten.
aaron		Okay.
aaron		 Good Evening...In mood and language better suited to an espionage novel than the delicate world of the Western Alliance, the British Foreign Secretary today pounced on what he termed, 'The nest of profession spies and amateur traitors who were turning NATO Headquarters into an instrument whose only true function is folly.'  We begin our coverage with Edward Towne in London.
makeup woman		Gee whiz.
floor manager		Five seconds.
aaron		...the sub-bases referred to are located in five countries...
aaron		France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain as...
aaron		We well as Great Britain...Our own State Department was rocked not only by the revelation but from the highly unusual persistence from the State Press Corps.  Martin Klein reports on the ruckus at Foggy Bottom.
aaron		Help me.
makeup woman		Someone finds me some big towels.
floor manager		Five seconds.
director		I'd go looser but we wouldn't see the graphic.
technician		 No -- this is more than Nixon ever sweated.
makeup woman		Can't you just die for him?
tom		You okay?
jane		Great.
tom		 Why can't I let go of this woman?
jane		Well...
jane		At least kiss me when you do that.
tom		 You just can't stop editing me. Huh?
jane		This is hysterical.
jane		I was half hoping I wouldn't have a good time tonight.  You know why?
tom		Because you're nuts.
jane		Right, right -- Isn't she fun to tease?
tom		More and more lately when I've watched you in action -- seen all your energy -- I've been wondering what it would be like to be inside all that energy.
jane		Right back at you.
tom		I don't remember saying anything like that -- exactly...I don't know why I just did.
jane		 Oh let's see -- wait a minute, well, I can think of two reasons.
tom		What?
jane		Three...I just thought of a third... If you talk about it, you don't have to do it.
tom		That's not it.
jane		Good...Another is you're trying to make it all about sex and heat and nothing else.
jane		Or it's that great feeling that you don't want to hold anything back. You know, intimacy.
jane		 Oh, shit.  I'm a creep.
jane		I forgot all about Aaron.  I promised to stop by and see how he did.
tom		I'd like to know.  I'll go along.
jane		No.  I'll see you at your apartment as soon as I can.
tom		JANE!
jane		What happened?
tom		Don't run off --  like everything's settled the minute you make up your mind.
jane		He might be weird -- he can talk more freely if I go alone -- why's that so hard to understand?
tom		It's not that it's hard.  I just want you to give me a minute to catch up.
jane		Okay.  Don't yell at me like that again, you scared the life out of me.
aaron		I was in the shower.
jane		How'd it go?
aaron		You didn't see it or speak to anybody?
jane		No.
aaron		Then it went well.
jane		Did it really go well?
aaron		Define your terms.
jane		Do you feel good about it?
aaron		No.
jane		Do others feel that you did well?
aaron		No.
jane		Then what was good about it?
aaron		I lost six pounds...
jane		Aaron, will you tell me?
aaron		It was great...writing my little first rate copy, sitting on my jacket, punching my one thought. But I had this historic attack of flop sweat so they'll never let me another again.  Oh, I lost one of your shoulder pads -- how was your evening anyway?
jane		What do you mean, flop sweat? -- you're making too much out of it...I'll bet you were the only one aware of it...
aaron		People phoned in.
jane		Stop kidding.  I want to know what happened.
aaron		I'm not kidding.
jane		There were complaining phone calls because you were sweating?
aaron		No, nice ones worried that I was having a heart attack.
jane		If all that happened, how come you're so chipper?
aaron		I don't know.  At a certain point it was so off the chart bad -- it got funny.  My central nervous system was telling me something. Jane -- sweat running down my face -- makeup falling into my eyes -- people turning this fusillade of blow dryers on me -- all so I could read introductions to other people who were covering stories which is what I like to do anyway.  And I'm chipper because you finally showed up.  I thought I'd cook for us. Tequila and eggs sound good?
jane		I have to be somewhere.
jane		I told what's his name -- Tom -- that I'd meet him.
aaron		Call him -- I mean it can wait, right?
jane		 I don't know.  I may be in love with him.
aaron		 No!!!!!
aaron		Don't go.
jane		This is important to me.
aaron		Yeah.  Well...I think it is important for you too.  Sit down.
jane		What?
aaron		 Let me think a second.  It's tough.
aaron		Aaach...Jane...  Let's take the part that has nothing to do with me.  Let's let me be your most trusted friend, the one that gets to say awful things to you.  You know?
jane		 Yes, I guess.  Yes.
aaron		You can't end up with Tom because it goes totally against everything you're about.
jane		Yeah -- being a basket case.
aaron		I know you care about him.  I've never seen you like this about anyone, so please don't take it wrong when I tell you that I believe that Tom, while a very nice guy, is the Devil.
jane		 This isn't friendship.
aaron		What do you think the Devil is going to look like if he's around?  Nobody is going to be taken in if he has a long, red, pointy tail.  No.  I'm semi-serious here.  He will look attractive and he will be nice and helpful and he will get a job where he influences a great God-fearing nation and he will never do an evil thing...he will just bit by little bit lower standards where they are important. Just coax along flash over substance... Just a tiny bit.  And he will talk about all of us really being salesmen.  And he'll get all the great women.
jane		I think you're the Devil.
aaron		No.  You know that I'm not.
jane		How?
aaron		Because we have the kind of relationship where if I were the Devil, you'd be the only one I told.
jane		You were quick enough to get Tom's help when...
aaron		Yes, yes.  I know.  Right.  And if it had gone well for me tonight, maybe I'd be keeping quiet about all this...I grant you everything but give me this...he does personify everything you've been fighting against...And I'm in love with you.  How do you like that? -- I buried the lead.
aaron		 I've got to not say that aloud; it takes too much out of me.
jane		 Sit down, stop.
aaron		I've never fought for anyone before. Does anybody win one of these things?
jane		Hi.  It's me.
tom		Where are you?
jane		I can't get away just yet.  I'm at Aaron's.
tom		Well, when?
jane		I'm not sure.  It seems like he had sort of a mishap on the news.
tom		I know.  I taped it.
jane		It wasn't as bad as he think, was it? -- it wasn't unprecedented or anything?
tom		Not if you count 'Singing in the Rain.'  Do him a favor and don't treat it like a tragedy.  You want me to talk to him?
jane		Uh-uh.  He says you could hardly notice it.
jane		Don't say anything about anything.
aaron		Hi.  Will I ever sing again?
tom		Everybody has one like that.  I thought it was great when you started to laugh at the end.
aaron		Yeah -- well, I'm sorry I'm tying up Jane, I didn't realize you two would be going this late.  Sorry.
tom		No.  Don't worry about it.
aaron		I'll put her on.
jane		Hi, again.  Sorry about...
tom		No.  That sounds more important. Let's forget about tonight.
jane		I don't know if that's absolutely necessary.
tom		I've got my father coming through tomorrow anyway.  I should get some sleep.
jane		 Uh-huh.
tom		I'll see you at the office.  Good night.
tom		 Hello?
jane		Yes.
tom		Okay.  Good night.
jane		 Good night??!
tom		Jane, I'm not some chore you have to finish so you can stay on schedule.
jane		Okay, great, Grunick -- Easy shots now -- huh?  Good night.
jane		He just cancelled.  He had a chance to think and he cancelled.
jane		I can't breathe.  But I can't -- I can't breathe. Damn it!
aaron		Well, Jane, it was nice of you to drop by.
jane		 Be fair.
wife		Ernie, they're calling from work.
ernie		Tell me I'm on the way in.
wife		It's Paul.
ernie		 Hello.  Yes...
ernie		Would there be any point to my going to New York and talking to them?  Would there be any point in going over it with you?  No, I'm still coming in.
wife		What?
ernie		They fired me.
wife		 How horrible.  We'll be fine.  You'll be fine.  Stay here with me -- we'll go for a drive, have some drinks, make happy plans.
ernie		No.  They're firing even more people than they said.  Some will want to talk.  It could help.
wife		 Sorry. Go ahead.
ernie		Bye, sweetie.
wife		Okay, sweetie.
blair		I've got four hours of French demonstrations --
blair		Some of it they use water cannons.
jane		What are you dressed up for?  Oh, that's right -- because the Evening News is here this week.
blair		I spent a fortune on this.
jane		 But when I'm a woman for a second, I get immediately fucked around by you.
tom		Jane, this is my Dad.
jane		 Sorry.
tom		You just light up a room and leave, huh?
dad		You want my opinion?
tom		The thing that's easy to miss about Jane is...
dad		You want my opinion?  And it's okay if you don't.
tom		Yes, I would.
dad		The way she just acted is not the way an affectionate person acts.
bill		Just when do you start, telling people?
paul		Almost immediately.
bill		I'd like to take everyone out after the show.
paul		Bill...This is hard on all of us and it's no time for compliments. But I think it's extraordinary of you to come down here for this.
bill		If we're not here for each other during the tough time, we're not a news organization.
blair		Welcome back to Washington.
bill		Thanks.
bill		I've forgotten.  Was she on the list?
bill		This is a brutal layoff...And all because they couldn't program Wednesdays.
paul		 You can make it a little less brutal by knocking a million dollars or so off your salary.
paul		Just a bad joke.  I'm sorry.  Awful. It's a miserable day and that was some kind of totally sick-joke defense mechanism which does not indicate any of my feelings -- not one -- but just shows the kind of stress this represents for all of us.
bill		Hi.  It's about time.
tom		Good to see you, Bill.
tom		This is my father.
bill		Good to meet you, sir.
jane		I feel terrible about what happened. What did he say?
tom		He -- uh -- said he liked you because you looked like you had -- fire and honesty.
jane		 No.  Did he really?
tom		Yes.  Then he said a really weird thing...
jane		 What?
tom		 That it would be a treat to make someone like you feel better... He gets like that sometimes.
jane		That's so perfectly...It really makes me feel a little faint...  Whooo.
blair		They canned me.  Well, my brother will feel great -- now he's not the only screw-up.
jane		It's started.
bobbie		Tom -- Paul wants to see you.
secretary		He'll just be a minute.
martin klein		You know I'm just old enough to be flattered by the term, 'early retirement.'
paul		That's wonderful...what a lovely line. If there's anything I can do.
martin klein		 I certainly hope you die soon.
paul		Tom.
paul		We're having a severe cutback, Tom -- 17 people in this bureau including technical personnel and we're going to reorganize at the same time. We're going to take you out of Washington for a while and assign you to London.
anonymous voice		No.  I won't keep my voice down. Those sons-of-bitches...They are worse than accountants -- they are bad accountants.
tom		Have you guys seen Jane?
ernie		She's in there becoming the first woman bureau chief we've had here.
aaron		What did they do with you?
tom		They booted me out of Washington.
aaron		Impossible.  There's no system that wouldn't value one of us.
tom		Why?  What did they do to you?
ernie		 It's what he did.  I'm proud of him.
aaron		They told me they'd keep me because they could plug me into any story and my salary was in line.
ernie		The cost-efficient reporter.
aaron		So I quit.
tom		You packing up tonight?
aaron		Yes.  And I'm sorry that they're sending you down for a while, but you'll make it back...Where they sending you?
tom		London.
aaron		 London.  That's a promotion!
tom		 I don't think so.
aaron		It is.  Yes -- that's where they had Rorish, for God's sake, before they made him anchor.  I can't stand it -- they're grooming you for it all and you don't even know it.
tom		Hold it down, okay?
aaron		Can I ask you something?  You only had one crew on the date rape piece, right?
tom		Yes.  You're not going to stick around for the farewell party?
aaron		No.  I don't know how much fun it will be when Martin Klein and Ernie have to drop off their credentials with the security guard.
aaron		This story they won't cover.  And if the network doesn't cover it -- it must not be important so why worry.
tom		 I'm going to miss you -- you're a prick in a great way...
tom		You know what I...
aaron		No, I liked the way it made me sound. Okay.  Be good.  So long.
older secretary		You know what I always wanted to tell you -- that...
jane		Shhh.  This isn't the last time we'll see each other.  It's not.
jane		We'll get them back -- it's going to change.
blair		Except for socially, you're my role model.
jane		These people -- it's all so awful. It just hurts physically, doesn't it?  Like something's wrong with your bones, like your organs are shifting inside your body.
tom		Maybe I haven't been here long enough.  But, hey, congratulations on the promotion.
jane		How can you say that to me?
tom		Sorry.  I can't stand here feeing bad that I don't feel worse.  This has happened at every station I ever worked for. Look, I think it's crazy for you to come in here tomorrow and start a new job.  I have a week to get to my job.  Let's get the hell away to some island fast and find out how we are together away from this.
jane		Well, I just think that' an extraordinary proposal.
tom		That's yes?
jane		That's more than 'yes' -- that's 'you bet.'
aaron		Hello.
jane		Bastard, sneak, quitter.
aaron		Speaking.
jane		I just found out.  You didn't say anything to me?  You just resign? Will you meet me now? -- No, now! I'm going away tomorrow.  Please.
jane		Why not try it for a few weeks?
aaron		Stop.  Ernie thought I was good too -- he couldn't help.  My agent has a hot prospect -- the number two station in Portland.  The general manager says he wants to be every bit as good as the networks.  Personally, I think he should aim higher.
jane		Tell me the God's honest truth -- are you leaving because of me? Because if you are...
aaron		Ernie told this story.  How he used to write obits and when the people in town called him up with death notices, he cried.  He was till that way when they promoted him out of obits.  He says you're lucky if you can get out while you could still cry.  I should have quit this place  three years ago.
jane		You're just trying to say all great stuff so I'll feel even worse that you're not around.
aaron		Let's go...
jane		I just want to sit here longer, I mean the feeling is powerful -- why's that?
aaron		Maybe the best part of your life is over and you don't want to get up and start the bad part.
jane		You are now required to sit here with me.  Come on...be smart for a second -- what do you think will happen to us?
aaron		Okay, that's very easy.  Five, six years from now I'll be in town to collect an award representing the surge in foreign coverage by local stations.
jane		 Yes.
aaron		I'll be walking with my wife and two children -- we'll bump into you on the street, my youngest son will say something and I'll tell him...  ...it's not nice to make fun of single, fat ladies.
jane		You won't be able to stay mad at me, right?
aaron		I hope so...  I'll miss you, we'll talk, we'll always be friends...we'll get hot for each other every few years at dinner and never act on it, okay?
aaron		Jane, you know how Tom had tears in the piece the other night?  Ask yourself how we were able to see them when he only had one camera and that was pointing at the girl during the interview.  I'm fairly sure I was right to tell you.
young woman		...but the whole thing messed me up more than it should.
tom's voice		Okay, that will do it.  You okay?
tom		That's enough.  That's enough.
young woman		I'm sorry.
tom		Are you okay?
young woman		Yes, I'm sorry.
tom		Don't be silly.  What are you sorry about?
young woman		The way you were looking at me, I just went.
tom		I just need you for another minute now, so we can shoot from behind towards me, and, um...
young woman		Uh-huh.
tom		...that way we have someplace to go when we cut.  And I just sit here, I nod my head and look nerdy.
soundwoman's voice		Tom
tom		Yeah.
soundwoman's voice		It kills me we didn't have a second camera. It was so powerful seeing your reaction.
tom		Really?
tom		 Then give me a minute...
jane		 You fucking...
tom		Look who's the organized one. I've got everything.
jane		I'm not going.
tom		Why?
jane		I saw the taped outtakes of the interview with the girl.  I know you 'acted' your reaction after the interview.
tom		I felt funny about it afterwards.  It's verboten, huh?  I thought since I did it for real the first time -- but I get you.  That's not the reason you're not coming?
jane		 Of course it's the reason.  It's terrible what you did.
tom		We disagree on how God-awful it was.  Why don't you come with me and we can disagree and get a tan at the same time?
jane		 Jesus, if you're glib about this I'm going to lose it.  I was up all night and...
tom		 Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane...
jane		It made me ill.  You could get fired for things like that.
tom		I got promoted for things like that.
jane		Working up tears for a new piece cutaway...You totally crossed the line between...
tom		It's hard not to cross it; they keep moving the little sucker, don't they?
jane		 It just proves that the difference we have are...
tom		This is a one-way argument.  We've got six days; if you go and we fight and we hate it -- we'll come home.  If you don't go?  Well, that's a much bigger deal.  I go to London right after that. So, it'd be very big deal if you stay here.  The plane's boarding.  You're good at deadline.  Here's your ticket.
jane		 It's amazing.  You commit this incredible breach of ethics and you act as if I'm nitpicking.  Try and get this.  When you edited that...
ticket agent		 This is the last one.
jane		That's not going to be the way we say good-bye.  Even though I think what you did was rotten -- it's not all impersonal.  You mean something to me.
tom		 You keep coming after me and looking down on me.  It's starting to make me batty.
jane		I don't wan to discuss work.
tom		Well, let's do a special report on that...I mean that's news.
jane		I knew what you meant.
tom		What I don't know, I can learn and what I know, nobody can teach. Excuse me for saying it about myself, but I think it's true.  Never mind what you think.
jane		You're lucky I came after you so you got that off your...
tom		Yes, I am.  Thanks.  I mean it.
jane		It's okay.
ticket agent		Sir?
jane		So you have an extra bathing suit, huh?
tom		 You want to come?
jane		 It's just that one of the few things I'm not confused about is what I was saying downstairs, that...
tom		 Then you should stay here.
jane		 It's better when you let me say it.
tom		Take it easy.
jane		Why did I have to do this to myself?  Watch you take off.  Call me if you need anything.
tom		Oh, honey.
cabbie		Good morning.
jane		Good morning.  Dupont Circle, please.
jane		Don't take the beltway, because at this time of day there's gonna be a lot...  ...Go any way you want.
jane		But New York Avenue's faster.
tom		... when they told me Bill had decided to retire and offered me the Evening News, I thought it was the same kind of joke we used to pull back at the station -- turning off somebody's prompter in the middle of a show.
tom		And now to something more important... I'd like to introduce my bride.  Lila?
tom		Holy shit, Aaron.
tom		Lila -- this is Aaron Altman.
lila		 Oh, yes -- you're one of Tom's 50 or so role models.
aaron		Hi.
tom		Well, this kid couldn't possibly belong to anyone else.  What's your name?
boy		Clifford...
aaron		 Do you know who this is, Cliff?
boy		The big joke?
aaron		I'm just bringing him over to give Jane a look at him --
tom		I thought she'd be here.  I'll go with you.
aaron		Okay.
tom		 I'll see you back at the hotel.
lila		 All right.
lila		Tom, the speech was magnificent.
aaron		Oh, I didn't say anything about your speech.
tom		I appreciate it.
jane		 Hey, what is this?  My life's rushing in front of my eyes.
tom		A picnic?
jane		I thought for ol' Cliff here -- Look at you?  You're more adorable than your pictures.  Look what I got for you.
aaron		What do you say, Cliff?
aaron		He excels at gratitude.
tom		 Are you any closer to a decision?
jane		I think so...They've been talking to me about being Tom's Managing Editor.
aaron		Really?
jane		 I'm going to take it.
tom		What a great surprise.  I didn't think we had a chance.  I heard you wanted to stay in Washington.
jane		Well, there's a guy, but he says he'll fly up a lot.
tom		Well, we should talk.  You going to have time for  dinner?  I'd like you to meet Lila.
jane		I'm sorry because I was looking forward to that, but I' m going back in a few hours.
tom		Okay...It's so good to see you.
tom		 It's nice to see you.
aaron		Congratulations on history's longest winning streak.
tom		If you ever get restless in Portland, let me know.
aaron		Why?
tom		 Bye...boss.
aaron		 Hey!  Cliff!  Cliff!
tom		 Go back to your daddy.
aaron		Come on, Cliff.  Come on.
aaron		 So who's the guy?
jane		Well, we met about three months ago. He works at the surgeon general office. He loves boating.  So, he's been getting me into water skiing.
jane		I like it!  So, doll, what about you lately?
aaron		Well -- my wife got this new job...
****Dialogues from script :Broken_Arrow.txt****

fourth draft		March 7, 1995
deakins		You know what happened there?
hale		Hell, I barely know what day it is.
deakins		I set you up. I fake right, go left three times in a row. You expect it again, I take the right in hard. That's what boxing's all about. Make your opponent think you're gonna do one thing, then do another. Like Ali in Zaire, using the rope-a-dope on Foreman.  Everyone thought Ali's arms were getting destroyed, when he was really just letting Foreman tire himself out. Eighth round, Ali starts hitting, George's got nothing left -- fight's over.
hale		The fact that I can't feel the left side of my face -- that's okay, right? Deakins laughs. Hale seizes the relaxed moment and suddenly launches into Deakins with a flurry of punches.
deakins		Several of Hale's punches land. Deakins staggers back, caught off guard. It looks like he might even go down.
hale		He cocks his arm back. He could finish Deakins off. But he doesn't. He drops his fist.
deakins		Seizes the opportunity and slugs back.
the crowd		Loves it.
deakins		Don't watch my hands -- watch my shoulders. That's where the punch starts. Ready? Deakins hits Hale hard in the face, sending him back.
the spectators		Are circling the ring, following the fighters, cheering.
deakins		You were looking at my hands. Let's try it again. Ready? Deakins hits Hale hard. He's got Hale on the run.
deakins		Come on. Focus. Ready?
hale		Lands, dazed, blood trickling out of the corner of his mouth.
deakins		He's in silhouette, the lights above him.
hale		Looks up at Deakins, catches his breath.
hale's locker		Is in sunlight. On the inside of his locker door are pictures of exotic planes -- the SR-71, a swept-wing fighter, an artist's rendition of the Aurora, etc.
deakins' locker		On the shady side of the room. Nothing on the inside of his locker door. The locker is spare, Zen-like in its neatness.
hale		Here.
hale's hand		Slams a twenty dollar bill down on the bench.
deakins		I can't take that.
hale		Oh, shut up.
deakins		Really. I feel bad. How many times have we fought and how many times have you won?
hale		Jerk.
deakins		Well, if you insist. Deakins grins, folds the bill and jams it into his flightsuit.
deakins		You know why I beat you?
hale		Because you've been boxing for twenty years and you're much better at it than I am?
deakins		You don't want it enough. You had me today. I was back on my heels. But you didn't close the door.
hale		We were just sparring.
deakins		Life isn't sparring, Hale.
hale		I think I saw that on a T-shirt. Deakins pulls out the twenty dollar bill; hands it back to Hale.
deakins		Here.
hale		No, that's yours.
deakins		If you weren't giving it everything you've got, then I don't want it.
hale		No, I mean -- that's yours, literally. I took it out of your wallet when you were in the shower. Deakins laughs, puts the money away.
boone		Gentlemen. (nods at NO SMOKING
deakins		Sorry.  What's the mission, General?
boone		Simulate a border penetration. Hug the ground. Scare some cows. See if anyone can spot you.
hale		The usual ...?
boone		No, actually, it's a little unusual. You're carrying a couple of nukes tonight, fellas.  Palmdale's afraid low-level gamma and x-ray diffusion might screw up the peripherals. They asked us to send a couple on a run, see if anything glows.
hale		'61s?
boone		 Big ones. '83s.
hale		Ooh. Crowpleasers.
deakins		 Ready for rollout.
the ghost		An enormous black flying wing.
hale		You know, these exercises are fantastic. I mean, when that day comes and we finally go to war against Utah, we are really going to kick ass.
a ranger		We don't see his face in the dark. He switches on a flashlight, walks over and taps on the tent.
ranger		Park Ranger. I'd like to talk to somebody about this fire.
jim		I know -- no wood fires in the Park. It's just -- Wanda's got a cold and I wanted her to stay warm.
ranger		Sir, you see any other hikers, campers anywhere around here?
jim		Not this time of year. What's the fine for something like this?
ranger		Your life. Jim grins. But the ranger pulls out a pistol and shoots Jim, who falls into the fire. He then puts three shots through the wall of the tent. Nothing moves. The Ranger -- call him BAKER -- pulls out a walkie-talkie, clicks on.
baker		Done.
headlights		Come on and two Humvees roll in and four men get out. Three of them -- JOHNSON, a tech-whiz; LETT, gangly, grim, and NOVACEK, a wiry guy in a baseball cap -- start setting up what looks to be a high-tech missile launcher. The fourth man is...
pritchett		(to Baker, re: Jim in
deakins		 Weren't you going to call Taylor today about the Aurora Project?
hale		Yeah. Turns out he wants people with more fighter hours.
deakins		What'd you say?
hale		What could I say?
deakins		Jesus. You are such a pussy. You never fight for anything. Hale is stung. Pissed, he goes on the offensive.
hale		Yeah, well you know what your problem is?
deakins		Because I said what your problem is, you're gonna--?
hale		You fight too much.  Right? You said it yourself -- you should be at least Wing Commander by now. Maybe you would be if you didn't insist on telling people what they're doing wrong all the time.
deakins		I'm usually right though, aren't I? Hale shakes his head, grins. Deakins clicks on his mike.
deakins		Ghost 7 to McMurran. Hey, Wilkins, you old bag of dirt, your boys in Utah still awake?
wilkins		Ready and waiting, Mr. Deakins. And tell our favorite hotshot, he's not gonna lose us tonight.
deakins		Wilkins says you won't lose them tonight.
hale		Tell Colonel Wilkins I could fly this puppy up his ass without him knowing.
deakins		(grins, shakes his head; into helmet
wilkins		Everyone get a fix! They're about to turn out the lights!
deakins		Ready, Major?
hale		On your word.
deakins		Go to war.
the cockpit		everything goes quiet.
wilkins		Lost 'em on active! Who's still got 'em?
ir crewman		Got their heat signature, sir. (points to computer
deakins		Descend to 400 feet AGL. River valley approach.
hale		Airspeed lock at point-seven Mach. Blue line descent on throttle to 400 feet AGL. Hale pulls back on the throttle. The plane descends.
hale		Time to limbo down. How low can we go.
terry carmichael		Pretty, late 20s. Her radio squawks.
terry		 No. Why?
terry		Oh, God. What is it this time? UFO abduction? Ritual human sacrifice?
terry		Yes, well, this is a woman who chopped off one of her own fingers because it'd "turned on her."
terry		 She was probably hallucinating, but I'll check it out.
ir crewman		Lost 'em.
wilkins		Stay on it. They're gonna have to come up for air sooner or later.
deakins		We're under the radar. Proceed to primary target. Hale hits a button, lets go of the stick -- they're on autopilot. It's a moment of peace. Hale looks out.
hale		I tell people I became a pilot because I wanted to fly cool planes. It's also for this. When we're up here, I feel... closer ... I don't know.
deakins		To God? Is that what you're going to say? That you feel closer to God up here?
deakins		Hale, take a look out your side. I think our terrain following is off. It's got us two klicks from the left flank ridge. Hale turns to look out the window on his side.
hale's pov		Looking out the window. There's some movement in the reflection in the glass. QUICK PULL FOCUS to see, distorted in the curve of the window, Deakins reaching inside his flight suit.
hale		Turns his head back toward Deakins.
hale		Deak, you can't smoke in here -- But then Hale sees it's not a cigarette that Deakins is pulling out of his flight suit. It's shiny, metal. It's...
a gun		And Deakins levels it right at Hale's head and his finger starts to squeeze the trigger.
hale		Grabs Deakins' hand, pushing up as...
deakins		Pulls the trigger and the gun FIRES.
hale		The bullet cuts a line through the top of his helmet, punching a hole in the window by his head.
the bullet		Tears through Hale's harness, blowing apart a shoulder strap.
the plane		Is banking towards a ridge-line cliff wall.
hale		Sees it, yanks on the stick.
the plane		Banks hard away from the cliff, just missing.
hale		No! He pulls at Deakins' arms.
terry		Clyde, tell Mrs. Parker that there's nothing weird going on. No truck, no UFOs, and, except for the odd human head on a stick, no sign of Satan. She feels it before she hears it or sees it.
the ghost		Rushes over Terry, no more than fifty feet above the ground. The jet-wash rocks the truck, almost knocks Terry down.
terry		Holy shit.
deakins' hand		AUTO to MANUAL. Deakins grabs Hale's EJECTION HANDLE.
deakins		Suddenly lets go of Hale's hand, then hits Hale hard under the chin with the fire extinguisher.
hale		His head snaps back as Deakins pulls.
hale's pov		As he rockets up out of the cockpit.
hale		When the chute opens, he almost spills out because of the severed shoulder harness. He grabs the straps, holds on.
terry		Somebody ejected!
wilkins		They're not due for another halfhour.
deakins		 This is Deakins! Hale lost it! I have to punch out! Deakins pulls his second handle. BLAM! WHOOSH! He's gone. He hear and feel the plane dropping, screaming toward the earth.
wilkins		That's not good.
the helicopter		And it lifts up and flies off.
rhodes		Hold it. Come back. The lights sweep back, find...
baird		Enters. Baird, 60s, is the White House Chief of Staff. His assistant stays in the b.g. as Baird walks in.
baird		So, do I wake the President?
chairman		Where is he -- Las Vegas?
chairman		Let him sleep for now.  We're going out with this. Rick's team prepared it. The chairman nods toward RICK. Baird reads, mumbling.
baird		"United States Air Force ... regrets to announce ... C-130 heavy-lift cargo plane ... down over the Utah desert ... status of crew not determined at this time ... yadda yadda ... Nice bullshit, Rick. Baird hands it to Rick, who starts for the door.
giles		Baird's intensely competent assistant.
baird		Giles ...?
giles		Aviation Week has been following this plane's development for years. They have stringers who spend their vacations sitting in lawnchairs all night long by the Whiteman perimeter fence just in case one of these things takes off. The boys in those lawnchairs know one took off tonight. They're going to know when it doesn't come back.
baird		 The truth? How the hell did you get this job? A few chuckles in the room. Baird looks at the Chairman -- well? The Chairman thinks for a second, nods. Baird turns to Rick.
baird		Rewrite it. What Giles just said. Rick grits his teeth and hurries out. Baird looks at Giles.
baird		I want you in Utah. Now. Giles nods, heads out. Baird grabs his arm.
baird		You scare me sometimes.
giles		Hell, sir. Sometimes I scare myself. And out Giles goes.
rhodes		 Cockpit's empty! We're checking the payload!
wilkins		Watch your needles!
rhodes		 We've got ourselves a Broken Arrow.
baird		Broken Arrow?
chairman		That's what we call it when we lose a nuclear weapon.
baird		Oh, Jesus.  I don't know what's scarier -- losing nuclear weapons or the fact that it happens so often that you people have a term for it.
wilkins		Find the nukes, Sam. But be careful. I know they say those eggs can't be cracked, but if your geigers pick up more rads than you'd get off a toaster, I want you out of there. Wilkins to the CORPORAL.
wilkins		Get the teams in. I want Colonel Rhodes and his men backed up.
baird		They dropped from a plane but they didn't go off...?
creeley		They have to be armed to detonate.
baird		Then they're destroyed?
creeley		 They're designed to survive crashes intact. They can lie in a pool of burning jet fuel for five hours without any problem.
baird		How did this happen?
creeley		In his last transmission, Colonel Deakins said Major Hale lost control. He probably hit weapons release by accident. Believe me, when a plane's auguring in, you start pushing every button you can. Baird stands, looks at a picture of a Ghost shakes his head.
baird		Hell, we should take the cost of the plane out of major Hale's salary. Although I guess at two billion dollars a pop, that could take a while.
hale		Spins, grabs the shirt of the figure and cocks his arm about to punch. He hesitates when he sees it's...
terry		She seizes Hale's hesitation and punches him hard.
his pov		Jarring, racing over rock and then...
hale		Pulls up fast, almost not fast enough.
hale's pov		He's stopped right at the edge of a fifty foot drop.
terry		Is walking slowly, calmy, up behind Hale, pistol out.
terry		Turn around.
terry		 Gimme your hands. Hale sticks his hands behind him. Terry handcuffs them.
hale		I'm going to tell you something I can't tell you. Terry puts away her gun, spins Hale around and starts marching him off.
hale		There were nuclear weapons on that plane. The guy I was flying with is trying to steal them. Terry reacts to that, but keeps Hale moving.
hale		I have to stop him, and I need your help.
hale		I only ran because you punched me.
terry		What, we're ten years old now? "You started it. No you started it."
hale		He has men on the ground. I --
terry		Save it. My dog's waiting for his breakfast. Terry starts to push Hale along again and...
hale		Jumps up and through the handcuffs.
terry		Reaches for her revolver, but...
hale		Grabs it from her, puts it to-her head, but not before...
terry		Whips a knife from her belt and puts it under Hale's chin.
hale		This isn't a stand-off, okay? I've got a gun.
terry		Yeah, well, I never keep my gun loaded. Terry taps her belt.
hale		Moves fast, grabs Terry's knife hand, then kicks her legs out from under her. Hale lands on top of her, still holding her knife hand, putting the knife to her throat.
hale		I'm telling you the truth.
terry		This is a good way to convince me.
hale		I could kill you now. Right? Terry nods, bewildered and more than a little scared. Hale lets go of Terry's hand holding the knife.
hale		I need your help. Terry looks at Hale for a long moment. She's still holding the knife. She exhales, then sticks the knife in the dirt.
rhodes		Got 'em!
terry		I've got a radio in the truck. We can call McMurran and get the Marines in here.
hale		 That's what I'd do.
terry		Who is this guy?
hale		(a flash of the horrible betrayal he
terry		Me? What are you going to do? (no answer, she
hale		I don't have any choice. The nukes are my responsibility. Besides... (pulls something from
terry		What's that? Hale sticks...
hale		The last thing in the world he expects is for me to come after him. Hale walks off into the light of the rising sun. Terry looks at the $20 bill.
rhodes		 Let's go find the other one. Rhodes starts off along the bottom of the crevice.
a humvee		climbs up the slope toward the helicopter.
mckellar		Grabs his rifle, hops out of the helicopter.
novacek		Hey, you guys need any help?
mckellar		It's an Air Force training exercise, sir. I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
novacek		Hey, no problem. We just --
lett		Whips out a silenced rifle and shoots.
mckellar		Barely has time to raise his rifle before he's hit. He drops.
another humvee		Drives up fast.
novacek		Picks up McKellar's half-eaten candy bar, takes a bite.
baker		 Any sign of Deakins? Novacek, mouth full, shakes his head.
pritchett		He better be dead.
deakins		Walk out of the shadows, smoking a cigarette. While soldierly with his men, Deakins is courteous and polite with Pritchett.
pritchett		You said nothing would go wrong!
deakins		Well, point of fact, nothing has.
pritchett		You didn't drop the nukes where you were supposed to!
deakins		Ah, but we always planned on the search and rescue team finding the weapons for us, and they have. Mr. Pritchett, I really have thought of everything. Johnson walks up, pointing to his radio headgear.
johnson		Newsflash. Two gunships just left from McMurran and they're headed this way.
pritchett		You thought of that?
deakins		That'll take care of itself.
pritchett		What about the other pilot? We saw him eject.
deakins		You don't have to worry about Major Hale. He's probably hiding behind a rock somewhere, praying I don't find him.
johnson		Someone else might find him.  A Ranger called her base, said she saw a pilot come down and was gonna go look for him. Deakins thinks it over, turns to Novacek.
deakins		Get ready. You'll go when the clean-up's done. Novacek nods, goes to the helicopter. Ext. Canyonlands - 4wd trail Hale and Terry are hurrying along a 4WD trail toward Terry's truck. Terry taken a look at Hale's ripped and torn flightsuit.
terry		Is that the new uniform?
hale		Yeah. Less constricting.
terry		The dayshift guy left some work clothes in the truck. You can have them if you want. Hale nods. His feet crunch on something.
terry		Don't walk there.
hale		Don't walk where?
terry		On that black stuff. That's cryptogamic soil. It's very fragile. One footprint takes centuries to repair.
hale		That's a new one. Endangered dirt. Terry gives Hale a look.
rhodes		Hello? McMurran? Come in. Suddenly, there's a soft popping sound and Reed drops.
rhodes		Reed? What the --? Rhodes looks down, sees blood on Reed. Before he can say another word, there's a fusillade of soft popping sounds as silenced bullets ricochet off the rock around them. Thomas goes down.
wilkins		Sam? Sam, are you there? Sam?
rhodes		Raises his pistol and shoots at the source of the laser.
rhodes		We'll open up the access panels, put in a couple grenades. The nukes won't go nuclear, but they will go dirty. I won't lie and say we'll be all right. We won't. But if we're gonna go, might as well take those bastards with us. Rhodes scrambles off.
kelly		Just one thing, sir.
kelly		This. Kelly opens fire with his rifle. Rhodes is thrown back, dead. Kelly yells up top.
kelly		Done! Kelly grabs the rope, climbs fast.
kelly		Climbs into view.
wilkins		Who is this?
wilkins		What happened, Kelly?
kelly		Colonel Rhodes is dead, sir! They're all dead!
kelly		It's the nuke, sir! It's open! Wide open! Oh, God, what am I going to do?! Deakins puts the shaver to the mike again -- more static. He reaches into the helicopter and flips off the COM LINK switch, then backs away, shaving. He nods to Novacek, who fires up the helicopter.
wilkins		Call back the teams and get me the Room. We're gonna need NEST in here.
deakins		Brought a tear to my eye.
kelly		I'd just like to thank the members of the Academy.
pritchett		 I hope you've got another surprise up your sleeve. If I'm not mistaken, there are two attack helicopters headed this way.
johnson		Not any longer. They look at him; he taps his radio headgear.
johnson		They've just been recalled.
deakins		You see, Mr. Pritchett, they think they've got an exposed core. They'll want to get a satellite to take a look, but it'll take ninety minutes minimum to shift the orbit. Until then? Well, people get a little weird when it comes to radiation. No one'll have the balls to come near here unless it's NEST -- the Nuclear Emergency Search Teams --and it'll take the nearest team at least two hours to get out here, and we only need an hour to reach our connection with the transport squad.
hale		What's your dog's name?
terry		Bear. I was going to call him Death, so I could say things like, "I walk with Death," and "Death chewed my boots," but I chickened out. You?
hale		No dog.
terry		Do you have a name, or is that classified? Before Hale can answer...
the truck		is riddled with bullets and explodes.
hale		We've gotta hide!
terry		Follow me! Terry leads Hale up a short slope. Hale scrambles over the top and is stunned. Terry runs out onto an open expanse -- no cover.
hale		Hide where?
hale		Looks at the helicopter as the bullets whistle in. When he turns back, Terry's gone.
hale		What the --?
novacek's pov		Aiming at Hale's back. But then Hale suddenly drops from view.
hale		Arms flailing, drops fifteen feet, to deep sand.
terry		This way. Terry runs. Hale follows.
hale		How do you --?
terry		(looks back, still
terry		Please don't tell anyone I did that.
the helicopter		Chases them, strafing them. BOOM! -- a grenade goes off in front of them. They run back. They're cornered. Hale looks around, looks up.
hale		Can you climb up?
terry		Yeah ...?
hale		Give me your gun.
novacek		Who sees her.
terry		Pull herself up, stands, hands up.
the helicopter		Novacek swivels the helicopter around.
terry		This has nothing to do with me.
novacek		Tell me where he is!
hale		Is down in the fissure, pointing the revolver straight up at the helicopter hovering right overhead, figuring out where to shoot.
hale		Blackhawk ... Moved pilot seat back a foot ... Puts him right about ... here. Hale hesitates -- he's never shot at someone before -- then takes a breath and starts shooting.
the helicopter		Starts to lean over sideways.
hale		Is surprised -- it worked!'
terry		Watches in horror as...
terry		Dives and rolls over the edge of the cliff as...
terry		Looks up.
pritchett		We don't have to worry about the other pilot? Deakins shakes his head.
pritchett		Then how come the helicopter crashed?
deakins		 Pilot error. Deakins turns and walks away, over to...
pritchett		Tell me again how I don't need to be here.
deakins		Mr. Pritchett, I understand your concerns. You and your associates gave me a lot of money to mount this operation. But they're getting ten times that back if we succeed.
pritchett		If we succeed?
deakins		All I can do is my part. We've got the weapons, we're ...  ... seventeen minutes ahead of schedule and everything will be in place within two hours. But I can't guarantee that the assholes in Washington won't do something stupid like not pay.
pritchett		What if they don't?
deakins		Then the next census for this region is going to show a very sudden drop in population.
giles		Colonel Wilkins? I'm Giles Prentice.  My word from your search and rescue team?
wilkins		No.
giles		I'm sorry. Picked up any radiation? Wilkins shakes his head.
giles		That's kind of strange -- if there's an exposed core out there.
wilkins		Point?
giles		Probably nothing. I asked for a transcript of the last cockpit transmission...? Wilkins nods to a CORPORAL who hands some papers to Giles. Giles reads them quickly.
wilkins		I don't know what you expect to find.
cu transcripts		We see COLONEL DEAKINS: "This is Deakins! Hale lost it! Oh, God! I have to punch out!"
giles		You know these guys? The pilots?
wilkins		Just on the radio. Never met 'em. Why?
giles		 What if this wasn't pilot error?
baird		No rhetorical questions, Giles. Spit it out.
giles		In the last transmission from the plane, Colonel Deakins said Major Hale lost it and made the plane crash. We all assumed that meant pilot error. But what if Deakins meant Hale made the plane crash. Murmurs of "That's insane" "No way" fill the room.
baird		Why would he do that?
giles		Two nuclear weapons would be worth a hell of a lot of money.
chairman		To whom? Son, there are easier ways for someone to buy nuclear weapons. You go to one of the old Soviet republics, you can get one for the price of a BMW.
giles		I meant they'd be worth a lot of money to us. How much would we pay to get them back? To make sure they weren't used in this country? A flurry of looks around the room.
baird		Hold on, hold on.  These nukes have codes or something that prevent people from using them.
creeley		Of course.
baird		No one has these codes -- outside of the President and you guys.
creeley		Access to the codes requires the highest security --
baird		I mean, not even the pilots have these codes, right?
chairman		 Where's that NEST team now?
assistant		They just took off.
hunt		Listen up, sportsfans. Word is, this particular broken arrow has broken open. Our ETA Utah is ninety-six minutes. I want everyone to take that time to triple-check the seams and seals on their E-suits. Let's go!
giles		You think I'm nuts. You don't think NEST or the satellite will find anything weird.
wilkins		That's right.
hale		How do they get out of here?
terry		Get out? I don't think that helicopter's going anywhere.
hale		Deak'd have a back-up. He'd be prepared.
terry		If they've got trucks they could take the four-wheel-drive trail we were on.
hale		He wouldn't want to go towards town.
terry		He could go to the river. Hale looks at Terry -- that's exactly what Deakins would do.
deakins		You a fan of boxing, Mr. Pritchett?
pritchett		I think it's barbaric.
deakins		Me, too! I love it! Two men trying to do as much damage to the other as he can. As basic as you can get, don't you think?
pritchett		I think it should be banned.
deakins		So do I! God, wouldn't that make it more exciting? Having to go into dark alleys and basements to see a fight? I bet we see eye-to- eye on a lot of things, Mr. Pritchett. Deakins grins; Mr. Pritchett steams.
their pov		The two Humvees make their way along the trail.
hale		See the one in front? It just has a driver? They wanted to keep the weight down. It has the nukes. Hale takes Terry's gun from her.
terry		You gonna shoot out the tires?
hale		Humvees can reseal and inflate with the flick of a switch. That's why Deak chose 'em. Terry looks at Hale -- then what is he going to do?
hale		I'm gonna steal it.  You get to a phone and call McMurran.
terry		The nearest phone is a two-hour walk.
hale		Then you better start walking.
terry		Look, I know my way around here. You're gonna need me.
hale		 I appreciate what you've done so far. But now it gets hairy. Go to the phone. He scrambles off over the rock.
the humvees		Come around a corner. The trail hugs the face of a ten-foot- high cliff. Suddenly, from off the cliff...
hale		Flying. He lands hard behind the Humvee.
deakins		Run him down.
hale		Sprints after the leading Humvee. Deakins' Humvee closes fast.
terry		Looks back, sees Hale's predicament.
terry		Here! She slides the pistol along the truck roof.
hale		Grabs the gun out of the air as...
baker		Slams on the brakes.
terry		Comes flying off the top, landing on the hood, barely holding on.
hale		Is going to be crushed between the Humvees. He jumps up, turning, as the bumpers come together. He lands on the tailgate facing backwards and fires into Deakins' windshield.
hale		Is behind him. Hale gets into the passenger seat.
hale		Gimme the gun and get out.
hale		No, we don't. Hale shoots Baker in the thigh. Baker howls.
terry		Reaches forward and grabs Baker's gun as...
hale		Kicks Baker out of the Humvee.
baker		Bad timing for him. He tumbles out, right in front of...
deakins' humvee		And is run over.
hale		Holds the steering wheel, yells to Terry.
hale		You drive!
terry		Climbs into the Humvee, takes the wheel from Hale. She jams Baker's gun into her belt.
hale		I'd yell at you for coming after me, but you did just save my life.
deakins		What're you doing, Hale?
a flare		Out of the tool kit.
kelly		Maybe he'll set off a nuke. That'd show us.
deakins		Stop! But it's too late and...
deakins		Coolly grabs a fire extinguisher and starts spraying.
hale		We need somewhere to hide.
terry		It was a copper mine, barely squeaking along for years. They shut it-down a few months ago when they hit an underground river. The hinges on the metal doors buckle and snap and the doors rip loose. Hale shuts down the winch, unhooks it from the doors. He motions for Terry to drive it in.
hale		They hardwired in their frequency. We can't call out.
terry		What are we gonna do? Hale goes to the back of the Humvee, pulls down the tailgate.
hale		I'm gonna take away Deakins' reason for being here. Hale grabs a screwdriver from the tool kit and pries open a panel on the side of one of the B-83s.
inside panel		There's an LCD DISPLAY, a NUMERIC KEYPAD and a CLOCK showing the current time. The keys are oversized and brightly colored.
terry		Fisher-Price makes nuclear weapons?
hale		They're designed to be used by guys wearing gloves in Alaska. He reaches in, hits a key and the LCD display lights up.
hale		These nukes have security codes. If you enter the wrong code three times, the nuke goes dead -- all the circuitry shorts out and shuts down. Kind of like the security systems with car radios.
terry		And people say the public doesn't benefit from defense spending.
hale		Pulls it out, looks at it.
ecu nametag		It's from "St. Judes Hospital, Radiology Department."
hale		Where's St. Judes Hospital?
deakins		Hey, there. What was that last part? There was some static. (clicks off mike; to
hale		I know you're stalling while you try to find the nukes with your scanner, but you're gonna be too late. Hear that? Hale holds the radio mike up to the keypad as he enters numbers.
hale		I'm entering the wrong code, you bastard. A couple more times and these are gonna be useless to you.
deakins		You really got me there. I sure didn't think of that. Hale slows down -- something's wrong -- Deakins doesn't cars.
deakins		All that time we spent in the cockpit together and you think I'm stupid? I got some new boards and circuits from a friend at Pantex. But nice try. Hale curses to himself. Terry looks at him. He shakes his head they're in trouble.
deakins		You know, Hale, I thought of asking you to join me on this. You wanna know why I didn't?
hale		Because I would've said no?
deakins		I would've just killed you if you said no. I was more afraid you'd say yes. Because I knew I couldn't count on you. You can pretend you've got guts, but when and if it comes down to it, you're gonna run off crying like a little girl.
hale		You better hope that's true, Doak. Because I've got the nukes, and there's nothing to stop me from entering the right code, if you know what I mean.
deakins		 You wouldn't do that.
hale		Nah. You're right. I wouldn't have the guts. END SPLIT-SCREEN. Hale drops the mike; looks at the elevator.
hale		How deep is this mine?
terry		I don't know. A couple thousand feet.
hale		That's deep enough. Hale opens the elevator gate.
terry		For what?
hale		A nuclear explosion. Terry's jaw drops.
johnson		Got it! They're --
deakins		In the mine.  I could tell he was inside something. There was an echo.
terry		We can still hide them!
hale		He's got a scanner. He'd find them.
terry		You're talking about setting off a nuclear weapon!
hale		They set them off underground in Nevada all through the fifties and sixties. There's no risk.
terry		Tell it to the two-headed cows. Hale grabs the straps around one of the nukes, pulls. He can barely move the thing. He turns to Terry.
terry		No! I am not helping you set off a nuclear weapon.
hale		We won't be down there when it goes off. This isn't a suicide mission.
terry		No!
hale		I need your help. Terry thinks, shakes her head, steps up and grabs the nuke.
hale		When we get to the bottom we'll have to get away from this shaft. It'll limit the amount of radiation released into-the atmosphere.
terry		We'll each drag one down a tunnel?
hale		No. I'm only going to set off one. We'll leave the other one here. It'll be buried under a billion tons of rock. They are startled when the elevator starts going up behind them
hale		We better hurry.  Let's try down there.
pritchett		I can't wait to see how this fits into your plan. Deakins' charm peels away for an instant and he fixes Pritchett with a stare. Pritchett shrinks back.
creeley		This is the KH-12 satellite's infrared view of the area. An exposed nuclear core would be relatively hot -- it'd show as a circle of bright white. As you can see, there's nothing. The only heat signatures we found were these. The image changes. There are four blotches, glowing a dull red.
baird		What's --?
creeley		We think it's Colonel Rhodes and his men. Their bodies. A look between Baird and the Chairman. The Chairman reaches for a phone.
wilkins		I understand, sir.
giles		Oh, shit.
wilkins		 I've got ten ships ready to go ... We should be hearing from NEST any minute now.
terry		How do you know how to do this?
hale		Pilots who fly with nuclear weapons have standing orders to ... (quoting from the
eyebolts		Screwed into the cross beaus on the ceiling.
hale		I'm gonna need your belt and one of your socks.
kelly		Send it up?
deakins		 Let's take care of Hale first. Spread out.
terry		Take your time. Really. Hale has pushed the open end of the sock through the eyebolt. He tightens a belt around the open end of the sock.
hale		Okay. Terry lets Hale down. Hale picks up a big rock and loops the free end of the belt around it. Then he picks up a smaller rock.
hale		We make a small hole in the sock, and when enough sand drains out -- and we're hopefully in New Mexico -- the sock is pulled through the eyebolt, the rock drops...  ... hitting the rock on this chip, closing the firing circuit and that's it. Hale finishes putting the small rock in position. He stands.
terry		How much time are we going to have?
hale		I don't know precisely. This isn't a Swiss sock. Ten minutes, maybe -- Hale is cut off by...
bullets		Flying in, ricocheting off the rock walls, fired by...
johnson		Thirty yards down the tunnel.
the sock		One of Johnson's bullets cuts through it.
hale		Feels sand hitting his face, looks up.
his pov		Sand is draining out of the sock very fast.
terry		Come on!
hale		The sock -- More bullets. Terry pulls Hale. They run down a side passage. Hale and Terry fire back at Johnson as they run out of sight.
johnson		Shoots after them, then runs up to the weapon. He reaches for the rock, stops -- maybe that'll set it off.
the sock		The last sand pours out; the sock is sucked through the eye-bolt.
the rock		Drops fast toward the nuke.
a hand		Grabs it, stopping it just in time. The hand belongs to...
deakins		He looks at Johnson in disgust, exhales, and tosses the rock. He pulls out a walkie-talkie, clicks on, talks into it.
deakins		We're at the end of tunnel three. (clicks off; to
terry		What do we do?
hale		Beat 'em back to the elevator. Stop 'em from getting out. Terry nods. They hurry off around a corner and are met by...
deakins		With his Uzi.
deakins		Slows down.
deakins		The bit with the sock was good. I like it. Still, I'm gonna use the the Field Expedient Tactical Timer. It's a little more precise.
deakins		I need a demonstration. Otherwise, some swinging dick in Washington is going to say I don't have the balls or the ability to set off a nuclear weapon. I'm gonna show these puppies I'm ready, willing and able. Hell, I'm eager. Deakins jams in his clip, walks into the dark part of the tunnel.
deakins		Opens fire -- but not at Hale and Terry -- at the cable along the ceiling connecting the lights. The cable snaps and electrical sparks shoot out, flooding the tunnel with light, showing...
deakins		The muzzle flashes from his Uzi give away his position and Hale and Terry's bullets scream in at him. He backs around a corner.
deakins		Well, Hale, I better be going. Look at it this way, partner. If you wanted to get closer to God, you are about to get your wish. Hale hears Deakins' footsteps start off.
hale		You're gonna ransom Salt Lake City, aren't you? The footsteps stop.
deakins		What makes you think that?
hale		That's where St. Judes Hospital is. You're gonna hide the nukes near the radiology department so they won't show up an any satellite radiation scans.
deakins		I'm impressed.
hale		How much are you gonna ask for?
deakins		Enough. I've got a broker in Stockholm. Monday morning he's going to buy me five percent of Volvo. For the rest of my days I'm going to live off the dividends, happy in the knowledge I'm helping to build the safest car in the world.
hale		So that's it? You're just doing 'this for the money? I'm kind of disappointed.
deakins		Why would you do it, Hale?
hale		That's the thing -- I wouldn't.
deakins		If you were me.
hale		If I were you...?  Because ... everyone's selling out and cashing in, so why not me?
deakins' face		Grim, evil -- fades into darkness as he turns and walks off.
the timer		Starts ticking down from ton minutes.
deakins		Mr. Pritchett!
the elevator		Comes down.
johnson		Is shot, drops.
kelly		Grabs Johnson's Uzi and, firing both guns, backs to the elevator, kicks open the gate with his foot and gets inside. He hits the UP button with the butt of one of the guns and the elevator starts to rise.
terry		We can go back, try to shut it down.
hale		We don't know the code, and Deak'd have it wired to blow if we so much as look at it funny.
terry		Then we're... Hale looks at her.
hale		I'm sorry. I shouldn't've let you come.
terry		Oh, God. Hale takes Terry in his arms, holds her.
terry		I ... I just hope someone remembers to feed my dog. Hale nods, hugs Terry. Terry starts to say something else, but Hale puts a finger to his lips -- he's heard something -- a distant rushing.
hale		Come on. Hale pulls Terry, running, down the far tunnel.
terry		What're you --?
hale		You said they shut down the mine when they hit an underground river.
hunt		Ten o'clock! In the clearing!
his pov		The blackened Humvee and Deakins by the mine entrance.
their pov		Dark water rushes by ten feet below them.
hale		Any idea where it goes?
terry		No. They look at each other. They don't have any choice. They flick on their flashlights and jump. They-hit the water and are swept from view.
deakins		Get in. We're leaving.
pritchett		(re: Kelly and
deakins		No time. And if they get out, they might talk. Fortunately, there's something wrong with the elevator. Deakins opens fire with his Uzi on the generator. Sparks fly and the thing shuts down.
kelly		Wrong person to screw with, Deak.
kelly		I know the goddamn code, asshole. He grabs the cable trailing off below the elevator and starts sliding down it into the darkness.
stalactites		Jutting down like knives, ready-to rip then open.
the ceiling		Is getting lower, getting closer to the surface of the water. They're running out of breathing room. Three feet, two feet, one foot. They take big breaths, maybe their last, and they're...
underwater		Tumbling along, pulled at by the eddies, flashlights showing their faces -- they are running out of air. And then, there's light above them in the water.
pritchett		Is holding on tight as Deakins drives wildly.
pritchett		I think I've finally figured out your plan. Those guys in the helicopter are going to kill us, but we're going to rise from the dead and
deakins		Very suddenly and very violently lashes out. The side of his hand hits Pritchett in the throat.
pritchett		Gags silently, suddenly unable to get any air. He pulls at his throat, even pounds himself in the back of the neck. No go. He slowly slumps, dying, skin turning blue.
deakins		Maybe now you'll shut up.
deakins		I just realized I've never killed anyone before. I mean, I dropped bombs on Baghdad, but never face to face.
kelly		Runs up, starts entering numbers into the timer keypad.
hunt		Let him know we're here!
deakins		Grins, steps on the brakes.
kelly		Punches in the last two numbers of the code then ENTER.
kelly		Sits back on the floor, takes a breath.
deakins' hand		He's holding a small black box. He presses a button and...
the timer		The red light goes out. The amber light comes on. A splitsecond later, the green light comes on.
kelly		Oh shit. The screen goes white.
deakins		Watching the helicopter, listening to Hunt over the loudspeaker.
the ground		Rises up beneath Deakins.
hunt		No...! They plummet.
giles		That's all we need. A goddamn earthquake.
wilkins		Son, I was at the Nevada Test site in the fifties. That wasn't an earthquake.
deakins		 At least I know they work.
wilkins		 Get me the Room.
giles		I have to get out of here.
wilkins		You're going to be fine. It was underground.  Colonel Wilkins for General Creeley.
giles		How do you know?
wilkins		For one thing, if it was above ground, it wouldn't have caused the same kind of ground tremor. For another, if it was above ground, we'd all be blind and dying.  Sir, we've just had a detonation.
baird		How'd that happen?
chairman		I don't know, but thank God it happened underground.
baird		What do we do now?
chairman		First thing we do is put a huge goddamn lid on this thing. With all due respect to your boy Giles and his belief in honesty as the best policy, from now on and until the end of time, what happened in Utah tonight was an earthquake. All right? Baird nods.
deakins		The helicopter? It was hit by EMP. Electromagnetic pulse. It's released in a nuclear detonation. It wipes out anything electronic for miles. That"s another reason I wanted to set off a nuke. I knew it'd bring down any helicopters coming for us. It'll also shut down all radio communications for a few hours, which will severely screw up their response.
butterflies		Hover and dance over the water in the early morning light.
hale		Hale has his shirt off and is wringing it out.
terry		Stupid buttons. I hate these shirts. They're ugly and stupid and -- Terry suddenly starts crying. It's not the shirt she's upset about. Hale holds her.
hale		It's okay.
terry		We just ... I mean, we almost...
hale		I know.
terry		A nuclear bomb went off.
hale		That it did.
terry		Are we...?
hale		Look. (points at
terry		Really?
hale		Absolutely. It says so in the manual. "If you see butterflies after a detonation, you are fine." Terry looks at Hale. She knows he's bullshitting her, but she appreciates it. They look at each other. They could kiss ... but they both shy away from it. Terry gets her shirt off.
hale		We better get moving. We might be able to reach Deakins when he gets to the river. They start off along a trail by the river.
hale		Something I've been meaning to ask.  How did someone like you end up with a gun?
terry		I hit a bankrobber with a frozen chicken.
hale		Excuse me?
terry		I came out here one summer during college. It was the campaign to stop the dam in the Grand Canyon. I loved it here. I came back, worked as a river guide and eventually stayed year-round. When a Park Ranger job came open, I applied.
hale		I'm still waiting for the chicken.
terry		The local Parks Department wasn't sure how I'd do with the law enforcement part of the job. Well, one night I was coming home from the store and Tommy Drewson part of the local brain trust was robbing old Bob Kearney in front of the ATM. I bear old Bob yelling and I see Tommy heading for his car, so I tossed a bag of groceries at him at thirty miles an hour. A frozen chicken in the bag hit him in the forehead and he dropped like a rock. Next thing I know, I'm a Ranger. Hale looks at Terry with a new appreciation.
their pov		A zodiac raft has been pulled up on the river bank. A man with an Uzi -- SHEPPARD -- waits, duffel bag by his feet.
terry		Get me a frozen Zacky's fryer and he's a dead man. There's the sound of an approaching engine. Sheppard stands, gun ready. The engine stops. A few seconds later...
deakins		Appears, walking down a footpath toward Sheppard.
sheppard		Where is everyone?
deakins		I am everyone. Let's go. Sheppard hurries to Deakins. They disappear up the footpath.
hale		Shit.
terry		What?
hale		We're the only ones who know what's going on, and I don't have the faintest idea how we're gonna stop them.
terry		You'll think of something.
hale		Why do you say that?
terry		You have so far. Hale looks at Terry -- she's right. But it almost pisses him off more than it gives him confidence. He grumbles to himself and starts off down toward the raft.
terry		Sink it?
hale		Steal it. They get down to the raft. They climb in. Hale grabs the engine throttle, slumps.
hale		Keys. Hale looks around, spots Sheppard's duffel bag lying on the riverbank. He hops out and starts rummaging through it when they hear grunting and feet approaching. Hale looks around for a place to hide. There isn't any. Terry tries to get out of the raft, but she trips on a tarpaulin bunched on the bottom of the raft. she drops.
their pov		Of the raft. Hale and Terry are nowhere to be seen.
hale		Is alone, in the water, on the far side of the raft, very silent. He hears Deakins and Sheppard load the nuke into the raft.
a tarp		Is lying on the deck of the raft along one side, all bunched up. It'd be the kind of thing you'd hide under.
deakins		Grabs the tarp and pulls.
deakins		Throws the tarp over the nuke. As he does, we PAN OVER to...
max		Your friends in Washington should be getting the package about now.
deakins		I wish I could see their faces.
deakins		... two-hundred-and-fifty million dollars, by nine a.m. Utah time. The depositing instructions are in the envelope that came with this tape. This deadline is not negotiable, and there is no grace period. The device is on a timer. Shortly after you receive this, the timer will be activated. At nine a.m., I will make a call. If I find out you've done as you've been told, I will stop the timer. If you have not complied -- The screen suddenly cuts to a flurry of images of nuclear destruction -- buildings being knocked sideways, mushroom clouds, shockwaves, fires.
chairman		Turn that off!
a marina		Where houseboats are rented out. Hale's eyes focus on a sign with a picture of a phone on it.
terry		Jumps up from the raft and runs after the truck, staying right behind. She grabs a handhold and pulls herself up. She holds on tight as the truck bounces off down the dirt road.
baird		Yes, sir. Creeley's phone rings. He answers it.
creeley		Creeley.
baird		(covers phone; to
chairman		If Deakins had a plane waiting, it could be anywhere. We just don't know.
creeley		I do.  Major Hale is alive. According to him, Colonel Deakins is headed for Salt Lake City.
wilkins		We found the raft on the other side of the lake. Tracks from a heavy truck ran out when they hit the paved road.
hale		If we get a rad scanner we can track them. A brief look between Wilkins and Giles.
wilkins		Actually, Major, we're going back to McMurran.
hale		What?
giles		We'd just like to ask you a few questions.
hale		I'm not wasting time answering questions. We've got --
wilkins		No debate, Major. I was given orders. Now, you can come with us, or you can go with them. Wilkins nods over at the other helicopter. The troops standing in front of it are MPs. Hale looks at Wilkins, astounded.
hale		Deakins thinks I'm dead. He thinks it's over. You've got to let me go after him. I can help. I know how his mind works.
wilkins		Major, I know this is personal for you, but I think we can handle it. We're putting a wall of men and machines around Salt Lake City as we speak. That truck is not getting through.
hale		What about the Ranger?
giles		What about her?
hale		When you find that truck, you'll hit it hard. Chances are she'll be killed in the crossfire. "Regrettable but unavoidable."
hale		Look, she's not supposed to be there. She should be checking camping permits, finding lost kids. She...
wilkins		We were ordered to take you back to McMurran. You understand what orders are, don't you, Major? Wilkins turns away. Hale sits back, mind racing, not knowing what to do. He quickly grabs a pistol from the helicopter's weapons rack and puts it to Wilkin's neck.
wilkins		Major, put that away or say goodbye to your career and hello to twenty years in Leavenworth.
hale		If that's what it takes.
wilkins		You'll have to shoot me. Hale thinks, but there's no way he can do that. He lowers the gun, sits back. Giles gets Hale's attention, then points to his own head. Hale doesn't understand, so Giles grabs Hale's gunhand and puts the gun up to his head.
giles		Colonel! How about this? Wilkins looks back, sees Hale holding the gun to Giles' head.
hale		 I swear to God I'll shoot. Wilkins grins.
max		Ready when you are.
deakins		Wait until I get back. I'm going to check on Sheppard. Deakins goes to a ladder that leads up to the ceiling.
wilkins		I don't know what you're looking for, Major. Every road between here and salt Lake has already been sealed.
hale		Deak would know that. Maybe he's not on the road. Wilkins doesn't understand.
hale		They were using maps like these to set up the roadblocks?
wilkins		Yes...?
hale		Then that's the answer. Wilkins doesn't understand. Hale points outside, down at...
train tracks		On the ground. Old ones, half-covered by weeds.
hale		It's an old spur. Probably hasn't been used in twenty years. Nobody bothered to put it on the new maps.
wilkins		What are you --?
hale		The nuke isn't in a truck, Colonel. It's on a train.
deakins		Climbs out and we discover that indeed they are not in a truck, they're in a train. The "nuke boxcar" has a small satellite dish mounted on the roof.
wilkins		Radio's still down. We'll head north, look for a phone, then look for a train. Giles nods. Hale is thinking. Wilkins starts to tell the pilot.
hale		No. Go south.
giles		Salt Lake is north.
hale		He's not going to Salt Lake.
giles		But you said it would be Salt Lake. You found that hospital tag.
hale		He planted that. He wanted whoever found it to think that's where he was going.  He's been doing a rope-a-dope. Giles and Wilkins look at him like he's nuts.
hale		It's a boxing term. When Ali -- Look, I know this guy. If everything has been saying he's heading north, then he's heading south. They look at him, then Wilkins grabs the map.
wilkins		What's south of here?
ecu map		Wilkins' finger follows the train line on the map. It goes right into Las Vegas.
hale		No. Not Vegas. What the hell is there to blow up in Vegas? Wilkins' finger keeps moving on the map.
giles		The President. Wilkins' finger stops.
terry		Crouching down between the two cars.
deakins		How much longer?
sheppard		Almost done.
terry		Creeps-up to one of the doors that lead into the driver's compartment. She hears...
deakins		Five minutes. We'll leave from the boxcar roof.
terry		Is hiding on the other side of the engine, very quiet and still. As Deakins goes out the back door of the engine, Terry follows.
deakins		As he puts a gun to the back of Terry's head.
wilkins' helicopter		Comes in, gets about three feet off the ground and Giles jumps out. As Giles runs to a payphone, the helicopter pulls up and flies away, leaving the Rancher agog.
deakins		Terry, Max. Max, Terry.
max		 What the hell is a "Terry" and why is it still live?
deakins		She asked me how I thought I was going to get away with this and I thought I'd tell her.  We're going to a cabin in the mountains, not far from here. When we get there I'm gonna make two phone calls.
terry		You said two phone calls.
deakins		The second will be to my bank in Geneva. If the money's in my account, I use this... (pulls out what looks like a modified cell-
terry		But -- radio isn't working.
deakins		You saw the dish on the roof? Microwave. It's not affected by EMP. See? I really have thought of everything.
max		You kept her alive just so you can impress her with how smart you are?
deakins		 No, I kept her alive because I want her to do me a favor. See, if something goes wrong and this thing goes off, a half a million people are going to be vaporized. I don't want that on my conscience. So I'm not going to arm the nuke.
chairman		 Son?
baird		 Good God.
deakins		Nine ... Then pound ... Good. Now six ...
quick cuts		Terry has visions of RETIREES in Vegas, watering potted plants outside their motor home, of TEENAGERS ragging on each other as they walk to school, of CHILDREN in a playground.
deakins		Seven ... Star ... One...
deakins		Then ENTER and it's done.
terry		Her finger hovers over the ENTER button, almost pushes it, then shifts to CANCEL and pushes that.
deakins		Stunned. He shakes his head.
deakins		Ooh. You really shouldn't have done that. I said I would kill you, and I will.
terry		I'm gonna be dead either way. I don't want any part of this. Deakins shrugs -- he sees her logic. He puts his gun to Terry's head. Terry shuts her eyes.
deakins		Night-night. Deakins is about to pull the trigger when Max stops him. Max gestures -- listen. They hear a helicopter approaching. Max checks his watch.
deakins		They're early. Just then, they hear gunfire. Max gives Deakins a look.
deakins		It's not a problem. Set the timer, then kill her. Have fun with it. Deakins starts climbing up the ladder to the hatch.
terry's hand		Rests on Max's tool tray. Her fingers creep over to a vrench.
max		Presses ENTER and finishes setting the timer.
max		There.
max		Thought I was just friendly old Max, huh? Lady, I was a Navy SEAL. You should see what I can do with just my thumb. Max goes for his gun.
terry's hand		Grabs onto something. It's the wrench.
terry		Yeah? Well, you should see what I can do with just a chicken.
hale		That's him!
wilkins		 Get him!
pilot		They've got guns!
wilkins		You've got a helicopter. Use it!
the helicopter		Comes swooping in.
deakins		Sees what's going to happen and turns and runs as...
the helicopter		Drops down beside the train. The rotor blades whip about three feet over the train roof and the pilot starts forward.
the helicopter		Closes fast.
deakins		Jumps down between two boxcars and the rotor blades go right over his head. Deakins hears an awful sound and a scream cut short.
helicopter pov		Swooping fast over the train when suddenly...
terry		Pops up out of the hatch, her back to the helicopter.
the helicopter		Pulls up fast.
terry		Watches the helicopter bank away. Bullets-start whizzing by her.
deakins		Has climbed up and is shooting at her.
terry		Runs away from Deakins, shooting Max's pistol behind her blindly.
two gunmen		Appear two cars ahead of Terry and start toward her, shooting.
terry		Is caught between Deakins and the gunmen with no way out when...
the helicopter		Comes along the length of the train, flying low. It rises up and there's...
hale		Hanging from the helicopter on a cable hooked to a harness and he's firing a pistol, shooting right over Terry at...
terry		The bullets rip up the boxcar roof around her. She jumps up and grabs onto...
hale		As he swings in on the cable, shooting his pistol.
sheppard		Appears, firing an Uzi at Hale, Terry and the helicopter.
sheppard		Is hit and drops.
the helicopter		Banks away fast, making ugly sounds, smoke billowing out. The engine cuts out and the helicopter drops to a hard landing beside the tracks.
terry		You stop the nuke. I'll stop the train. Hale nods. Terry starts forward, then turns.
terry		I'd yell at you for coming after me, but you did just save my life. Hale grins. They hear a helicopter in the distance. They look over to see...
a man		Standing in the doorway of the Red Cross helicopter, holding a gun.
terry		That's Deakins' escape route.
hale		Not any more. Terry nods. They share a last look, then Terry heads off. Male coils up the winch cable, slings it over his shoulder and heads for the nuke boxcar and his old friend Deakins. He picks up...
hale		Standing, tugging on the cable, still attached to the harness. Hale racks a load in the shotgun and jumps back off the side of the train.
hale		Swings into the boxcar on the cable, firing the shotgun.
the gunman		Is picked up by the blast and smashed back through the wood slat wall of the boxcar and out of the train.
deakins		Climbs up fast through the hatch to the roof.
hale		Shoots at Deakins, misses. The shotgun clicks empty. Hale tosses the gun then unhooks the cable from the harness. He drops to the floor-of the boxcar and runs to the ladder.
deakins		Is reaching for the man's hand and grabs it when...
hale		Reaches out of the hatch and grabs onto Deakins' foot.
the helicopter		Moves sideways over the train.
the helicopter		Moves back sideways over the train.
deakins' pov		No sign of Hale on the train roof.
deakins		Get us out of here!
the pilot		Nods and starts to lift and bank. Then he gets an odd expression. The helicopter isn't doing what he wants.
the helicopter		Is hovering over the train, but it can't fly away because...
hale		Is hanging onto the skids and he's hooked the cable to the skid. The other end of the cable is still attached to the hatch.
the helicopter		Strains against the cable, but it doesn't snap.
deakins		Hurry!
power lines		Cross the track, a quarter-mile ahead.
deakins		Leans out of the helicopter with his Uzi, shooting down at...
hale		Who grabs onto the cable and slides down it to the roof of the train, bullets plugging in all around his. He jumps down through the hatch as...
deakins		Sees what's coming and jumps.
the helicopter		Hits...
the helicopter		Breaks up and flies apart as the train rolls on.
the toyota		Explodes.
hale		Looks at it, trying to figure out how to disarm it. He hears the whoosh-thump of someone jumping down into the boxcar. He turns.
deakins		Stands there, trying to smile, trying to be cool, but...
deakins		They would've paid and I would've stopped it. You've made a very, very big mistake.
hale		It's over, Deak. I beat you. Disarm it.
deakins		If it's over and you beat me, you disarm it.
hale		Deak...
deakins		Course you are going to need this. (holds cell-phone
deakins		Ready? Hale puts up his fists.
terry's pov		The train car axle is smoking, grinding, glowing red in the heat from the flaming Toyotas.
deakins		Modern boxing is a pussy sport. They want to make it about scoring points. It's not about scoring points! It's about this!
deakins		Okay. You're bleeding. Good. In the old fights, there'd be so much blood, guys would slip and fall. Let's see if we can't get a little more of that red goo out of you. Ready? Again Deakins fakes right, jabs left. Hale half blocks it, but is sent back.
terry		Is between the car carrier and a boxcar, looking down at the axle, not knowing what the hell she's going to do when she hears a horn honking. She turns.
deakins		Used to be, every fight was to a knockout. You know what happens when you get knocked out? It's your brain slapping against the inside of your skull. Here. I'll let you see what it's like. Ready? Deakins steps toward Hale, about to finish him off. Deakins swings. Hale ducks, comes up hard with all he's got, gets Deakins under the chin and Deakins sails up and back, landing prone, seeing stars.
hale		Stands over Deakins, in silhouette, the light of the hatch above him. And then...
the train		Jumps the tracks.
the straps		Securing the webbing to the walls of the car start to snap.
flaming toyotas		Fly, tumble, explode.
the train		The sounds of the crash cease. Dust and smoke. Burning Toyotas.
deakins		Is lying at the bottom  of the car, directly under the nuke, not moving.
hale		Looks around for something. He sees it --
deakins' eyes		Flicker open. He sees...
a pistol		Lying a few feet away.
deakins		Pointing a gun at him.
hale		The nuke is armed, Deak. If it falls, the impact trigger will set it off.
deakins		I know.
hale		Half a million people will die.
deakins		 Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
hale		His finger hovers over the amber button.
deakins		Do it and I shoot. Hale looks at Deakins.
hale		I guess you really don't know me that well after all. Hale presses the amber button.
deakins		Shoots.
hale		Spins back, blood spraying from his shoulder.
the remote		Falls from his hand.
deakins		Is about to shoot again, then hears a tearing and looks up as...
the nuke		Drops toward him, point first.
deakins		His eyes fill with true terror as...
hale		Gets to his feet and stands over Deakins. He reaches down, opens Deakins' pocket and pulls out the twenty-dollar bill.
hale		Ready. He heads out of the boxcar.
hale		Keeps running through the wreckage. He stops, unable to breathe when he sees...
a foot		In a boot, sticking out from under a burning Toyota.
hale		Runs to the car, pulls at the foot, tries to push the car off the body underneath. O.S. another vehicle drives up.
hale		Come on! Oh, God. Oh, no. Hale is pulling hard on the foot when...
terry		Walkins over from the Rancher's pickup truck.
reporter		What happened here? Hale and Wilkins and Giles share a look.
hale		Uh... (looks at flaming
hale		Rawley Hale.
terry		Terry Carmichael. They shake hands and walk on as we...
****Dialogues from script :Broken_Embraces.txt****

judit		The Door of Alcala has also darkened.
judit		Mateo, say something!
judit		 Don't say that!
off harry		I always wanted to be another person, to be someone beside myself. To dispose of a single identity didn't seem enough. Living a single life wasn't enough for me. And half-joking, I came up with a pseudonym for myself, Harry Caine, an adventurer who, as fate would have it, became a writer. At that time, I had him author all the scripts and stories that I wrote. I came up with a standard biography to fill the back flap of his books. He had been a sailor, an industrial spy, the doorman at a Parisian cabaret, a boxer, a waiter and an advertisement hand-double. A self-made man, active and attractive like an English spy, vital, skeptical and sarcastic. For many years, Mateo Blanco and Harry Caine shared the same person, me, but a time came when, all of a sudden, I couldn't be anyone other than Harry Caine. I became my pseudonym. . Just as I had planned, a heterodox writer and, never better stated, a self-made man, one might even say, "self-written man". There was only one detail I had not foreseen, Harry would be a blind writer.
waiter friend		Do you want me to read you something from the newspaper?
harry		No, thanks. I am off on a stroll.
girl		 Watch out! You can't cross!
harry		Sorry . . .
girl		I'll tell you when!
harry		Thank you very much.
harry		I live nearby, two blocks up, would you mind coming along with me?
harry		You will only have to browse.
girl		Do you mind if I turn on the light? So that I can read... It's too dark in here.
harry		Oh, yes... Turn the light on...
girl		Ernesto Martel is dead!
harry		Who?
girl		Ernesto Martel. I know one of his granddaughters...
harry		So he's dead.
girl		You knew him?
harry		No...
girl		What are you interested in, politics, economy... culture?
harry		I am interested in you. What are you like? Do you mind describing yourself?
judit		What are you laughing at?
harry		I am only smiling, because of the way you're looking at me.
girl		 I must go.
harry		Thanks for helping me cross.
judit		 I'm sorry, I thought you were alone.
harry		She helped me cross the street and I invited her in to read me the newspaper . . .
judit		Harry, you can't bring into your house the first person who helps you across the street. One of these days something awful will happen to you!
harry		 Everything awful that's had to happen to me has. Now, all that's left is for me to enjoy life . . .
judit		Diego told me yesterday that you finished the script.
harry		I would like to add a final epilogue. It may not be necessary, but I'd like to write it.
judit		I agreed to deliver the definitive version to the producer and director today.
harry		You will have it by tomorrow, don't worry.
harry		Ernesto Martel has died.
judit		I think he was very ill...
harry		It's been so long since we've spoken of him!
judit		You look awful ...!
diego		I ran here.
harry		And it's Monday! Diego, you don't have to run for me. We are not in a hurry.
judit		I am, I've committed ...
harry		You'll have it by tonight, don't worry.
judit		Start thinking of the next script. Some kind of horror or fantasy story for bratty teenagers. It's what sells best ...
harry		I don't know if I'll know how to. I was thinking of developing a story inspired by Arthur Miller's son...
judit		 The writer who married Marilyn?
judit		And Miller never saw him? ...
harry		 One day, Miller was giving a conference in defense of a mentally retarded man, who had been condemned to death, after what was believed to be a forced confession. Among those present was his mentally handicapped son, who was integrally involved with organizations that aided all sorts of disabled people. The son was very proud to finally be sharing something with his father. At the end of the conference, he approached the stage and held him in an embrace that must have seemed endless to Arthur Miller, who did not know how to extract himself from this mentally handicapped man; imagine, it would not have been politically correct, least of all given the situation in which Miller found himself. Then the stranger let go of him and told him: "I am
judit		 It's very moving, but I don't think we can write a script about Arthur Miller without procuring rights from the family.
harry		We change the names, the story is not about the writer's miserliness, but about the strength of the son who survives without the least bit of rancor toward the father who has ignored him his entire life. It is a story of troubles overcome and of inherent goodness. There aren't those many good men that one can write about.
judit		It's a beautiful story. But years ago, when you began writing again and I began selling your scripts, you told me you'd never write remakes, sequels, nor biopics. Nor stories whose protagonists were film  19
harry		I can't bear them...  It's true, it's true I said all that, but this wouldn't exactly be a biopic...
judit		I'll get it.
harry		Diego, go to the end of the document.
diego		Did you bring me the session?
alex		It's still warm. Just downloaded from the eMule.
diego		Dude. I'll throw it in now. You want something to drink?
alex		Yes. And you, would you like a tip of "crystal"?
diego		I pass. I do need to sleep once in a while.
judit		You need anything?
mateo		No, thanks.
judit		What are you up to?
judit		Then I'll leave you. I'll stop by tomorrow, when I can. I have to finish the budget for the Americans as soon as possible, so that I can decide what to do ... . Ok, we can continue tommorow...
off		Ernesto Martel has passed away at his residence in the countryside, "La Berzosa." Financier, of Chilean origin, who achieved great success and notoriety due to his involvement in the financing of crucial public infrastructures in different Latin American countries.
off		Recently he had been involved in various financial scandals. He was implicated for fraud in the infamous "case of Bank Banelco". He was married three times, and had two children...
ernesto		... I just spoke to the Transportation Minister. Things are in full swing. Yes, we are doing the Caracas
ernesto		I will dictate a letter for the Minister of Industry...
ernesto		Are you alright?
magdalena		 Yes, thank you.
ernesto		Why don't you tell me what's wrong? I'm sure I could help you.
magdalena		My father is very ill. This afternoon they are releasing him and I wanted to ask you if I could leave an hour early to go pick him and my mother up.
ernesto		Of course. What's wrong with him?
magdalena		Stomach cancer, metastasized.
ernesto		I am really sorry.
lena		I can't believe they have thrown you out of the hospital, like dogs...
mother		 Yes, honey, yes...
lena		 Does Dr. Alvaro de la Torre know this?
mother		He's been the one...
lena		But how? If he was going to operate him this week, and last week, and the other week...
lena		 It cannot be! They can't keep him for twenty days, torturing him with tests in preparation for an operation and now leave him like this, just because the doctor is leaving on vacation!
lena		Have you protested?...
mother		To who? Dr. De la Torre is the head surgeon. There is no one over him.
father		Did you forget about me?
lena		 How could you think that Dad!
father		You know what Dr. De la Torre told me before he broke the news?
father		 You tell her, Paca.
mother		He said: I am glad you are not still in the service, Emilio.
lena		Why?
mother		"Because if you were still in the service, after what I am going to tell you, you'd shoot me..."
lena		He really said that?
father		Yes... and he was smiling, he thought it was funny...
lena		Call me any time, no matter what it is!
lena		Madame Mylene? Hello, it's Severine.
madame mylene		Severine! It's been so long! I'm so happy to hear from you.
lena		I need money.
madame severine		How soon?
lena		Now! My weekend's free. I am busy during the week.
madame mylene		I'll see what I can do. May I call tonight if I find something?
lena		Yes. I'll wait for your call.
lena		Yes?
lena		 Who is it?
ernesto martel		I am calling on Madame Mylene's behalf.
lena		 You've made a mistake, sir. No Severine lives here.
ernesto martel		I must have dialed wrong. Excuse me.
madame		Hi! Has he already called?
lena		Who?
madame		The client! You will not complain about my speediness!
madame		I couldn't say no.
lena		Things aren't done like that! Have you gone mad!?
madame		He knows everything. And I haven't been the one to tell him, he found out on his own account, he knows about your foray into acting, and that you sometimes "acted" for me...
madame		Months ago he made me promise him that if you got back in contact with me I would call him. I couldn't say no, he is one of my best clients.
lena		You bitch!
madame		 Look on the bright side. He must really like you to go to the lengths he has... Perhaps you've found your Sugar Daddy.
madame		What have you agreed on? Remember I am part of the business.
lena		 How is Dad?
mother		 Not well at all, my dear. We've been through a hellish night. He has not eaten anything. But he won't stop bleeding... and everything is coming up... it's as if he has burst inside.
lena		I will be there with an ambulance immediately. Be ready to leave!
lena		Mr. Martel? It's Lena.
ernesto		 Good morning, Lena.
lena		I am sorry to bother you...
ernesto		 You are never a bother.
lena		My father is dying. We must admit him urgently, but I don't know where. As I told you, they released him from Puerta de Hierro yesterday.
ernesto		Don't worry. We will take him to the Emergency Room at a private clinic.  You told me that he has stomach cancer...
lena		Yes.
ernesto		 The best digestive surgeon in Europe is at the Clinica de la Luz. I will take care of the admittance issue. Call an ambulance and tell them to pick up your parents. I'll meet you at the Clinica de la Luz in an hour...
lena		 Thank you very much.
ernesto		How's the patient?
surgeon		You have brought him in terrible conditions... Which I suppose you know.
ernesto		 Will you be able to save him?
surgeon		We will do everything possible... at this very moment it is impossible to operate...
surgeon		Perhaps tomorrow. We are providing parenteral nutrition... He will need a blood transfusion...  Do you have any relatives who can donate?
lena		Well, here... I don't know...
ernesto		Give him the best blood you've got!
surgeon		I will keep you updated on his condition in the next hours... 
mother		May I stay?
surgeon		Yes, of course. You can stay in his room as long as you wish.
lena		I'll stay here, Mom. You have to rest...
mother		 No, you rest... You've already done enough... Thank you very much, Mr. Ernesto. If my husband survives, it will be thanks to you.
ernesto		He will survive, ma'am.
lena		Really, you don't want me to stay? Or that I bring you something?
mother		No, go. You both must have things to do...
harry		 Who is it?
harry		Ray X? There's no such a name.
harry		What do you want?
harry		It's your first film?
harry		It's none of your business.
harry		Will you stand there all day?
harry		Find it out. She is a well-known Production Director.
off judit		Hi Harry. It's me.
harry		Tell me.
off judit		A young director has been in contact with me. His name is Ray X and he wants to write a script with you... Does this ring a bell?
harry		Yes... .
judit		 Well, he wants to see you this afternoon, or tomorrow, if you can. I have asked him for an advance and he has accepted, but I cannot accompany you either today or tomorrow...
harry		I will speak to him... and let you know.
judit		Good, I hope you like him, he seems to be loaded.
harry		Have you seen him?
judit		No, just judging from his voice. And from the check I am about to ask him for. I will send Diego over so that you're not alone.
harry		Hello Mr. X. Please, have a seat...  RAY X Please, don't address me formally.
ray		I love your work, I know it from the start.
harry		Thank you.
ray		I have seen all of Mateo Blanco's films, including the last one, "Girls and Suitcases".
harry		Is that so? You must be the only one.
ray		What happened to Mateo Blanco?
ray		Because he vanished from public life...
harry		It would seem that way.
ray		Almost as if he'd died.
harry		Yes . . .  I lost track of him some time ago.
ray		I've always been intrigued by the case of his last film.
harry		Whose?
ray		Mateo Blanco's. The first five are stupendous. You were the screenwriter for all of them, how do you explain that the last one was a disaster?
harry		. But tell me about the story you want to write.
ray		... I would like to write a story about a son's revenge, one against the memory of his father.
harry		Why does the son desire revenge?
ray		 Because the father ruined his life, practically nullifying him while he lived. The father is a successful financier, violent, homophobic, very powerful and unscrupulous. He thinks everyone has a price and that's how he behaves with people. I don't know if you've had the misfortune of meeting someone like this...
harry		When you say he is powerful, what kind of power are you referring to?  RAY X Economic, with everything that entails. He is a broker, of the generation of speculators that made quick, high-profit gains in the 80s; he amassed a great fortune during the oil crisis. The son is sensitive, with complexes and artistic preoccupations, and lives under his shadow, trying to please the father in everything. Despite being a bit... homosexual, the son marries twice, just like the father, and, just like him, he separates. He has a  49
harry		I get it. I am afraid I am not the writer you are looking for.  RAY X You are, you don't know how much!
harry		It's too personal.
harry		Thanks, but no.  And now, if you don't mind...
harry		In my case, that would be a miracle.
harry		Did you overhear that?
diego		Yes... I'm flipping out! Why did he ask you if Mateo had died?
harry		Look through the pictures of the `94 shoot. Some of the photographs must have the date on it.
diego		I think this is him...
harry		Who?
diego		The man who just left.
diego		It's from the shoot. . He is carrying a small camera, like a
harry		It's a 16mm. Are you sure it's him?
diego		He is now thinner and wears a beard, but it's him. He is talking to you.
harry		What am I saying?
diego		I don't know. He is handing you something, it looks like a pack of cigarettes.
harry		It's a radio microphone. He is asking me to wear it and I am refusing it.
diego		Who is he?
harry		Ernesto Martel's son.
harry		 You can put them away now...
off		It's about your son. I have caught him trying on my dresses. And it's not the first time...
off		That's not the problem, the boy is very depressed, I've had to take him to a psychiatrist.
off		The doctor has told me he is in need of a father figure... I think I am going to send him your way so that he can spend some time with you, after all you are his father.
ernesto		If I haven't been a good father in eighteen years, I don't think I can learn to be one precisely now.
off		How can you speak like that! Have you no feelings?
ernesto		 I have them. Very deep feelings, they just don't include either of you.
off		If anything happens to him, you'll know who's at fault.
ernesto		Stop blackmailing me, Rosanna. Tell Ernesto that if he wants to talk to me he should call me himself.
lena		 Don't be so harsh with them, Ernesto!
ernesto		Blackmailers!
lena		Why don't you invite your son to spend a few days here?
ernesto		It'd be better if you didn't get involved with them, Lena.
lena		He can keep me company... Does he like movies or theater?
ernesto		I don't know. But the mother has told me he is a bit faggot. If I ask him to come I would like for you to tell me if that's true... and whether you think there's any remedy...
lena		And how would I know?! What an idea!
ernesto		I am not asking you to fuck him, but you good-looking girls can tell these things.
lena		Call him, but you can't count on me for the rest.
ernesto junior		 and that he has very good taste. If they love me and you don't set them against me, they will accept it.
ernesto junior		If you hadn't been so exclusively concerned with my father's fortune you might have noticed it yourself.
ernesto junior		I have to go, I have another call.
ernesto junior		I hope not.  Yes?
judit		 It's Judit Garcia.
ernesto junior		Oh, hello, Judit.  Did you get the money?
judit		I don't want it! I just sent it back, Ernesto!
ernesto junior		You won't call me Ray? It's my artistic name...
judit		Artistic? What are you up to?
ernesto junior		Hoping to erase my father's name.
judit		And what does that have to do with Harry?
ernesto junior		I've been wanting to see him for a long time. And it's true that I want to shoot a movie and that I want him to write the script.  I've got the protagonist.
judit		You are not a director!
ernesto junior		You should take a look at my documentary, you'd change your mind.
judit		Ernesto, forget about us!
ernesto junior		Don't be afraid of me. I am not my father.
judit		Do not come near Harry again. If you ever stop by his house again I will report you for harassment.
judit		I am not at all pleased with having to scout outside Madrid, but the Americans pay a bundle and we need money.
diego		You can leave without concerns. Don't worry about me.
judit		I am also worried for Harry.  Please, look after him during my absence...
diego		 I have things to do, mom. I can't look after him all day.
judit		It's only two weeks!
diego		Harry manages perfectly on his own and right now we are not writing anything.
judit		I am worried about Ernesto Junior's visit. I would like for you to be on guard in case he appears or calls and then let me know immediately!
diego		Why are you so worried?
judit		He's crazy. I don't trust him.
diego		Why?
diego		 Summarize it!
judit		Diego, please, this is not the moment.
diego		It never is for you!
judit		 Hey, if it bothers you so much to look after Harry, I'll quit the job and stay in Madrid! Or I'll hire someone.
diego		It doesn't bother me to look after Harry! But I am tired of so much secrecy!
diego		Don't go so fast!
diego		I'm not. I'm just keeping you company. How can you walk so fast?
harry		I am training and I don't work at night, nor do I drug myself.
diego		 What do you mean by that?
harry		That I take care of myself, with the fanaticism of an older, handicapped person.
diego		You are no fanatic.
harry		Yes, I am. All of us who survive a critical physical injury are. There is no other way.
diego		A billboard.
harry		Why so?
diego		In huge letters it says "Donate Blood", it includes where one has to go.
harry		You want to donate blood?
diego		No, no... I was thinking that "Donate Blood" is a good title for a movie...
harry		Yes. It has a good ring.
diego		For a vampire flick.
harry		It's true.
diego		 Imagine that behind the billboard a whole group of vampires that work in ambulatory care are hiding... and they actually keep the blood they get from donors for their own consumption, of course...
harry		Your mother would like that story.
diego		The vampires would be like a type of ethnic group, completely assimilated into Spanish society, they don't stand out. There are vampires who occupy important positions, keeping it a secret . But even though they live in the shadows, they have amassed great social and economic power...
harry		They control various industries. For example, the one responsible for dark sunglasses...
diego		 And those that provide nightly entertainment: bars, discos, after-hours... Since they don't need drugs to stay awake, they are the most apt for working at night. They don't burn out...
diego		 And those which sell best... This is all great...
harry		Protected by the sunscreen, they can function all day... The lotion must be as dense as armour.
diego		 A gorgeous woman, totally naked, rubbing her body with a super-dense lotion, before heading to work at an ambulatory hospital. Her body is a velvety pale, beautiful...
harry		 What a great opening! We also need a love story...
diego		A hybrid love story, between the female vampire and a normal guy.
harry		Like in "Cat People", a love story between beings of different species...
diego		She works at one of those labs where blood is donated and where they snatch it for themselves. The guy has gone to donate his, or to get some tests. They like
harry		But they must like sex, right?
diego		Of course. That's one of the problems, the couple desire each other desperately. But when it comes to fucking, she becomes prudish...
harry		Why?
diego		Because she is afraid of losing control in her excitement and taking a bite into his jugular...
harry		Aha.
diego		When they're horny, she lets him do everything, front, back, whatever he wants, except ravaging her mouth.
harry		And her breasts?
diego		Also... But that gets into high-risk territory. When he sucks on her breasts, she has to cover her mouth with a pillow, which she ends up shredding with her fangs...
harry		And when she sucks his dick?
harry		And how does he react? A man may do without kissing, but it's very rough not to have your cock sucked.
diego		Since he is deeply in love, he accepts the situation . Once they are more comfortable with each other, she wears a muzzle, as security for both. Because when she's turned on, she has a type of dental erection, her face grows into something like that of a she-wolf...
harry		I like your story very much, Diego.
diego		Our story.
harry		No. This one was your idea, and you'll author it. I'll be your sparring partner, for all the times you've done the same for me...
diego		 Stop fondling me... damn it!
alex		It's the GHB. It kicks your ass.
alex		Do you want a little bit of "X"? 
diego		Just a tip.  Tomorrow I have to work, we are writing a vampire script that's going to be the shit!
diego		Stop already, you are going to go through the roof.
alex		Holy shit, he's taken a drink from your glass! Why in the world did you get Coca-cola! Didn't you notice he was drinking a jack and coke?
alex		 He's unconscious!
alex		No. I'm a friend. Diego just... he's not well. We are taking him into the emergency room...
alex		No... because...
harry		What hospital are you taking him to?
alex		Who are you?
harry		 ...His uncle. I am on my way.
harry		 I am here to see Diego Garcia. He's just been admitted.
harry		I am here to see Diego Garcia.
doctor		Are you immediate family?
harry		 Yes... I'm his uncle, and his godfather.
doctor		Your nephew is at the ICU, he arrived in a coma...
harry		In a coma?
doctor		Yes...
harry		But, what has happened?!
doctor		He ingested liquid ecstasy and alcohol... it is a lethal combination. His friend informed us it was a mistake... 
harry		My God! But Diego is a very healthy boy...
doctor		Barring any complications, he will recover in six to twelve hours.
harry		If that's the case, I'll wait...
doctor		Go home, we will call you...
harry		I'd rather wait.
doctor		Are you certain?
harry		Yes. Guide me to a place where I can sit, please...
doctor		Would you mind providing us with his parents' phone number?
harry		He only has a mother and, at the moment, she is working outside Madrid... I would prefer to call her myself... I don't want to alarm her, unless he is truly in a grave condition...
doctor		Normally, he should recuperate in a few hours... but, in any case, you should have a talk with him, once he's better...
harry		Yes, of course...
harry		How are you?
diego		I don't know... dazed. Did you speak with my mother?
diego		And she believed it?
harry		I don't know. She wanted to hurry back, but I convinced her to continue with the location scouting. At some point you'll have to call her.
harry		Are you asleep?
diego		I'm not sleepy anymore.
harry		Do you want to talk?
diego		No...
harry		Would you like me to speak?
diego		I don't know. If you'd like...
harry		I say so in order to distract you. When I was young, before I got into making movies, I was very good at telling stories.
diego		 Well, then... would you mind telling me why my mother is so afraid of Ernesto Junior?
harry		She's afraid of him?
diego		Before she left, she made me promise that I would remain alert, in case he reappeared...
harry		She didn't explain why?
diego		She never explains anything.
harry		It's a long story...
diego		Judit says the same thing. How did you meet him?
harry		We met him... In an office we had rented in preparation for my new film, about fourteen years ago.
off harry		...After having written five dramas, I had finally managed to write a script for a comedy, or that's what I thought. I wanted to change genres... to take a risk  And I swear I accomplished that, the part about taking a risk.
judit		 77
mateo		 What's she like?
judit		Too beautiful to be funny.
mateo		 Really?
judit		She is Ernesto Martel's lover, the tycoon. She is here with his son.
mateo		And she's an actress?
judit		 Her? If she's been with him for three years, she must be. In any case, go out and say hello, to be polite. One must get along well with important men. You never know.
lena		I am sorry we showed up like this, but I've heard you are running auditions... and I would like for you to give me a try out.
lena		I can come whatever day is convenient.
mateo		You're already here. Let's read something.
off harry		The reading didn't work out. We were both too nervous. The first meeting and the reading we did only served to make me realize that woman's very presence perturbed me.
ernesto senior		Where have you been this morning?
lena		Ernesto hasn't told you?
ernesto senior		I haven't asked him.
lena		 I went to see a film director.
lena		 For an audition.
lena		 I want to work.
lena		Call a decorator... I want to be an actress. I've always wanted to.
lena		 I am sorry, forgive me.
lena		 82
lena		In any case, don't worry. It didn't turn out well. I was too nervous.
lena		 Come in!
lena		 That's the film director. He says the reading was not sufficient and he wants to see me once more!
lena		Go see him, no?!
lena		Please, Ernesto. I need to do something! And I've always wanted to be an actress!
lena		They have not given me the role yet.
lena		Well, if I were to get it, we would still see each other every day, as it has been, in the mornings and evenings. Nothing will change, except that during the day I would work, just like you.
lena		 What?
lena		Don't you think you've married and divorced enough times already?
lena		We've been living together for three years, aren't we fine like this?
harry		Ernesto Martel offered to produce the movie. Your mother didn't want him to. She was waiting for a subsidy from the Ministry and an advance sale to television, but that would take months and I was suddenly in a great hurry to begin shooting.
off harry		I enjoyed making her up, styling her and dressing her. Lena could be the Shirley McLaine of "The Apartment" and the Audrey Hepburn of "Breakfast at Tiffany's", or even Goldie Hawn...
off harry		Your mother didn't like Lena.
off harry		I, on the other hand, liked her a lot, and she liked me.
off harry		Ernesto Junior also liked me...
off harry		I was hoping to use him for my own ends. His father had asked him to make a documentary about the shooting...
ernesto junior		Are you going to work on something?
mateo		No. You may go.
mateo		It's best if you leave. I am going to try out some wigs.
mateo		 No! You don't love them! You already have many hours shot of wigs. This is more of the same.
mateo		After she tries on the new wigs, she's asked for a massage therapist, she has a spasm...
mateo		Ernesto, stop being a pest and leave already! See you tomorrow!
mateo		 I am going to speak to Magdalena... Do you mind being on the lookout? Don't let anyone interrupt us.
lena		Is Junior around?
mateo		No. I sent him home. There's only Edurne, on watch...
lena		This is madness, Mateo. I am no good for you.
mateo		You should have warned me sooner.
lena		 Well, yes, especially if you're a girl.
lena		Because you must put on makeup , dress up, do your hair. Get dressed again, do your hair again. And that takes hours.
lena		At the end of the week, sure, but I'm happy...
lena		I can't travel until the shoot is over...
lena		We rehearse on weekends.
lena		Yes.
lena		.
lena		The movie is boss.
mateo		You look awful...
judit		Little Diego... he could hardly breathe all night... neither of us has slept a wink.
mateo		 You still don't know what it is?
mateo		Take all the time you need... Even if we're shooting, your son is more important.
judit		Thanks.  One more thing, I've talked to the producer.
mateo		And?
judit		He complains that the shooting is monopolizing Lena.
mateo		 And how does he think one makes movies?
judit		Ernesto is a businessman, not an artist.
mateo		Then he shouldn't have signed up as a producer, no one asked him...
judit		I warned you! Ernesto Martel doesn't give a crap about this movie and those of us making it, except for one person! This weekend he is taking her to Ibiza with him, so you won't be able to rehearse.
mateo		Son of a bitch!
lena		 I want you to find me pretty.
lena		Would you like a cigarette?
lena		Do you know how many fucks we've had since we arrived yesterday?
lena		 Ten.
lena		Yes, I suppose so.
pina		They are gifts from Mr. Ivan and I tossed them out. He told me to keep them, but I don't want them!
chus		But you can't do that, Ms. Pina. You could have killed somebody... You can't just throw things off the terrace, much less if they are metal...
pina		In Naples, on New Year's Eve, they even throw out furniture, my grandfather was Neapolitan... I carry it in my blood.
chus		But this is not Naples, nor is today New Year's Eve...
pina		I was anxious and throwing things relaxes me... Keep them if you like.
chus		Thanks so much, Ms. Pina. But that's not right...
chus		It's not alright, Ms. Pina.
mateo		 Your tone is off, Magdalena.
lena		 I know.
mateo		 What's wrong?
lena		 I'll tell you later.
assistant		We break for thirty minutes, it's snack time!
mateo		 What's happened?
lena		I've had a horrible weekend...
mateo		But... we haven't rehearsed, so that you could rest!
lena		Rest? I haven't slept a wink all weekend...  It's been a nightmare!
lena		I have literally had Ernesto on top of me, all those forty-eight hours, like a leech!  He has not given me a second to breathe, the asshole!
lena		Well, you tell him that I am a grown-up now, and free, and that I've forbidden you to follow me.
ernesto junior		You know I can't tell him that.
lena		Try it. It would do you good.
ernesto junior		I can't.
lena		Do as you wish, but you're not coming with me.
lower level		At the same time that the former is taking place, Lena arrives to Martel's mansion. She finds Ernesto Senior with a drink in his hand, in one of the living areas , she approaches him and gives him a slight kiss on the lips, in a gesture of hello.
ernesto senior		 How are you?
lena		Good, tired.
ernesto senior		And relaxed.
lena		 Yes...
ernesto senior		The yoga is doing you good, isn't it?
lena		Yes, especially after work...
ernesto senior		I am going to snack on something. Will you join me?
lena		I am not hungry, I'd rather go to bed right now. I'll only have a yogurt.
lena		Ernesto, what are you doing here?
ernesto junior		Working.
lena		Turn that off, you idiot! Hasn't Mateo forbidden you to tape us outside the shooting?
ernesto junior		My father has told me not to listen to him... he wants to see everything.
lena		You both have no scruples!
ernesto junior		Remember I am taping you.
lena		 And listen carefully, Ernesto! I will let  108
lena		I was just with the man I love and I am the happiest that I've been all my life because he loves me too! And listen carefully, Ernesto! I will let you be very soon! There is no need to spy on me. I don't have anything left to hide!
lena		 I am leaving, Ernesto. I am leaving you.
ernesto senior		 You are not going anywhere.
lena		And how will you stop me?
ernesto senior		We have to get to the hospital. My wife is badly hurt...
policeman		What's happened?
ernesto		I was in the living room and, since we weren't planning to go out, I started drinking early. I am pretty drunk, as you may notice. Suddenly, I heard a thump, I ran to the stairs and there she was. She tripped and fell down the stairs...
policeman		Is this true, Madam?
lena		Yes... Can't you leave the paperwork for later?
policeman		Your husband can't drive in this condition!
ernesto senior		What do you mean?
policeman		You're crazy!
lena		Please!
policeman		Get out of there! I will drive!
policeman		You either let me drive or we all stay here until the ambulance arrives!
lena		 Stop it, Ernesto! Let him drive!
policeman		 Get down and sit in the back, with your wife!
lena		 going?!
ernesto		You really can't wait?
lena		 No.
lena		Hello, Mateo?
lena		Not tonight.
off mateo		Has something happened?
lena		Something unexpected has happened, but don't worry, everything's OK.
off mateo		Tomorrow the shooting begins in the afternoon, will I see you before then?
lena		I won't be able to. I will see you directly at the studio. I have something to do.
off mateo		 You're acting strange, Magdalena. Are you sure nothing's wrong?
lena		Yes. I'll see you tomorrow.
ernesto senior		 What would you like me to do? What can I do so that you will forgive me?
lena		 Take me to the studio.
ernesto senior		You shouldn't move.
lena		If you don't take me, I'll go there myself, even if I have to drag myself.
ernesto senior		And what will you say? how will you explain the cast on your leg and the bruises?
lena		It's up to you.
ernesto senior		To me? I will do whatever you ask, as long as you promise you'll stay with me.
lena		I will stay, under the condition that you let Mateo finish the shooting, according to what he decides.
ernesto senior		He will barrage you with questions, that guy's not stupid.
lena		I will tell him I tripped.
ernesto senior		And how will you shoot, if you can't walk?
lena		I don't know. Whatever Mateo decides, but I want to rest assured that you will respect his decision, no matter the cost nor the time that it will take. Is that clear?
lena		... And that's it.
lena		Ernesto is prepared to support whatever you decide.
mateo		 Decide, what?! I can't move from one shot where you are walking normally to another one where you are wearing a cast! How long must you wear the cast?
lena		Three weeks.
judit		 Can we stop for those three weeks? With pay for the team, of course.
mateo		 I hate stopping! Movies, when you pick them back up, are no longer the same!
mateo		 Do you mind if I speak to Lena alone for a moment?
lena		Be careful, he may walk in.
mateo		Let him walk in!
mateo		Tell me the truth! People don't fall down the stairs, that only happens in movies.
lena		Mateo, we must finish the shooting as soon as possible! Until then, I cannot leave Ernesto.
mateo		Why not? He's a psychopath! What more proof do you need?
lena		I cannot leave, I've made a deal with him.
mateo		A deal? What deal?
mateo		But I cannot ask you for such a sacrifice.
lena		You have not asked me...
mateo		I can't accept it either.
lena		 Mateo, please!
mateo		There must be another answer.
lena		What else? The only solution is that I continue to live with him until you finish the film.
mateo		Can you take it?
lena		You don't have to think about that... What's important is that you finish shooting.
mateo		Exactly what have you agreed to?
lena		I've told you, to live under the same roof, with him in his room and me in mine. He doesn't have the right to anything more.
mateo		And you think he will be content with that?
mateo		 We would have to repeat part of the stairway scene...
pina		 Leave that note there! It's not for you. How dare you take it and crumple it?
julieta		What do you have to speak to Ivan about, you whore!
pina		It's none of your business.
julieta		I am his wife.
pina		His wife has been admitted at a psychiatric hospital for twenty years now.
julieta		Not anymore.
julieta		 I am no longer committed. I am now here with you. Walking down the stairs.
julieta		You are in a hurry to see him, aren't you?
pina		Yes...
julieta		Well, what are you waiting for!
pina		 Oh, it's you?
chon		 I've left you a thousand messages!
pina		Yes...
chon		And this suitcase?!
pina		 It's Ivan's. He's leaving me.  130
chon		And that broken leg?
pina		His ex-wife, the crazy one. She pushed me down the stairs . . .
chon		I see, we're in great shape...
mateo		 Cut!
lena		 I am sorry...
mateo		Don't worry, it will turn out.  But I don't know what more direction to give you.
lena		 You have told me everything, in every way possible...
mateo		 Ernesto is getting just what he hoped. That we make a piece of crap of a movie! I told you not to agree to that deal...
lena		We can't let him have his way!  Every day I arrive worn out and every day I recover, right?
mateo		 Yes...
lena		I ask you only for a bit more patience... And a kiss!
chon		Listen, if that's how you'll greet me, I'll leave.
pina		No, c'mon! Come inside!
mateo		She's so much better! Grab this one!
luis		Yes.
mateo		Let's look at fourteen, it's even better!
off harry		When we finished shooting, I quickly selected all the takes for the film so that I could rescue Lena as soon as possible from the Martel house. The situation had
off		It's Magdalena.
mateo		Is there something wrong?
off		No. I'm downstairs. I've forgotten my money. I have to pay the cab . . .
mateo		I'll be right down.
mateo		 But . . . what has happened?!
lena		We have had a brutal fight... At the end, he ripped my clothes off and my shoes and he threw me out naked onto the highway. The jacket belongs to the cab driver. You must give him a good tip, if it weren't for him I don't know how I would have made it here...
mateo		 Take us to the nearest police station...
lena		No, please...
mateo		We must denounce him, Magdalena!
lena		He will turn against you!
lena		No, not your house.
mateo		We have to look after you. Let's go to a hotel...
lena		 Let's leave Madrid.
mateo		Look. It's us. 
harry		Do you want to go back home and return to the "Donate Blood" story?
diego		I am hoping to get back to it, but first tell me what happened in Lanzarote. You can't leave me hanging!
harry		Without realizing, a month had elapsed... I knew that sooner or later we would have to return, but we kept postponing it. I was only worried about you and your mother. I had not even said goodbye and you were still suffering from your allergy problem when we left... I can imagine Judit was furious with me.
diego		You can't imagine how much.
harry		I was planning to return soon to finish the editing... and to explain things to your mother. But Magdalena decided she'd wait for me on the island. She couldn't stand the thought of seeing Ernesto again.
lena		Sorry to interrupt... I wanted to ask if there are any employment opportunities available here, with you... You always look so busy... I have a lot of free time...
employee		We could use the help, especially now that the high season is about to start... Do you have experience?
lena		I have worked as a secretary at M. Capital, a very important finance company.
employee		 You could first work during the afternoons and, then, we could see...
employee		We were just saying that the girl in the ad looks like you.
lena		 No. It's not me.
mateo		I was wondering how long it would take him to emerge!
lena		 But they can't release the film so soon, right?
mateo		No. It's a scheme to annoy us, and a trap to get you to return. The ad is only lacking the words "Missing."
lena		What are we going to do?
mateo		Nothing. Fuck them!
mateo		 What does it say?
lena		That the only intelligent thing we have done has been not to attend the premier, that my acting is pathetic, that you seem like a first-time director and that you lack talent. At the end, it wonders who might have made your first films. Never before has such a resounding downfall been witnessed... How horrible!
lena		What are you going to do?
mateo		 I will be waiting for your call!
mateo		Luis, I just read in the newspaper that the film has opened and I am beside myself!! I don't know what the fuck is going on there, but I would like to know! OK, I'll ring back!
diego		And mom, did she call you back?
harry		No.
diego		 Why?
harry		She was pissed, I suppose.
diego		I remember that time, it was while I was undergoing treatment for pulmonary aspergillosis. It was a horrible time for me... Not just because of the illness, my mother was like a crazy woman... I had just seen "The Exorcist" and, for some time, I believed she was possessed...
harry		 I was the demon, Diego. And I am sorry. I suppose I behaved selfishly, but I am not sure I had a choice...
diego		 149
harry		The fact is she never did, and we've never spoken of it. Neither one of us has broached the topic.
diego		 And you weren't curious?...
harry		, but neither of them answered! So I decided to return to Madrid the next day so that I could witness what was happening for myself!
mateo		How did you meet Ernesto Senior?
mateo		And... how did you end up with him? You fell in love?
lena		He was very generous with me and my family. My father was dying, I needed to take him to a private Hospital and Ernesto took care of everything... He paid for everything... And he made sure that my parents could return to their home town and that they lacked nothing...
mateo		 Pardon me, I have no right to ask you about that time in your life.
lena		It's only natural that you would want to know. And I don't want any skeletons between us.  I would like to be able to forget all that, but you have the right to ask.
mateo		 No. I do not have any right. For me, you were born the day you came for the audition. You looked at me, I saw your face and... I was left hypnotized.
lena		I remember your face perfectly. I think I fell in love with the way you looked at me. I thought: this man will be my salvation.
lena		 It's the first time we part...
mateo		 Either way, I will return next weekend. But if you are going to be worried, you should come with me.
lena		No... I will be better off here.
mateo		 And did I manage to save you from anything?
lena		 Yes!
judit		Mateo, say something!
harry		Mateo is dead, Judit.
judit		 Don't say that!
psychiatrist		We call him by his name, but he doesn't respond to it. He insists Mateo has died.
judit		Images are the source of his work... and to live in the dark, I suppose that's death to him... Is there any chance he will see?
doctor		None. His is what we refer to as a cortical blindness, and it's irreversible. It's the result of a lesion to the occipital lobe, the intelligent part of the brain, which has the role of processing all visual information. In other words, the neurons have died... and that's permanent...
off harry		I felt as though I had died with Lena. The Mateo- film-director who had left Madrid would never return.
mateo		Did you visit Lena's mother at her hometown?
judit		Yes.
mateo		What did she say?
judit		She was very thankful to Ernesto for having taken care of everything...
judit		Yes, they buried her next to her father.
mateo		Did you visit the grave?
judit		Yes.
judit		What's wrong?
dieguito		I also want to go to the beach!
mateo		Do whatever you need to do. We'll wait for you there.
judit		Bundle up! And don't get too close to the water.  Don't let go of his hand!
judit		I am here to pay Mateo Blanco's bill.
employee		We don't have anyone here registered by that name.
judit		It's the man who had the accident. He was in bungalow number two.
employee		Oh, you mean Harry Caine.
judit		Yes, of course.
employee		Poor souls! They are not the first to have an accident on that traffic circle! Awful!
dieguito		Look... There are kites!
judit		Harry! Harry Caine!
harry		We're here, Judit! 
judit		We have to go, Harry.
harry		 Let's go, Dieguito. Give me your hand.
dieguito		 Can't we stay a little longer?
harry		No. We must obey your mother... You've had enough wind for one day...
dieguito		But I'm already all better!
harry		Play "Elevator to the Gallows" and take a look at the ending...
diego		Do you always watch the same movies?
harry		Yes. Since I know them by heart, I can visualize the action.
diego		Is there any new movie you'd want to see...?
harry		Yes. But you'd have to describe the action. Your mother used to describe some to me, some time ago.
diego		I wouldn't mind doing so.
harry		I would like to "watch" one by Tarantino or Scorsese, and also some Asian cinema...
diego		Done.
pina		What a drag!  Oh, it's you?
harry		That's "Girls and Suitcases"!
harry		Turn up the volume!
chon		 I've left you a thousand messages.
pina		Yes. A thousand from you, and none from Ivan.
chon		 And this suitcase?
pina		It's Ivan's. He's leaving me.
chon		And the cast on your leg?
pina		His ex-wife, the crazy one. She pushed me down the stairs and I broke my leg...
chon		Wow! Well, we're in good shape... I also broke up with my husband...
harry		 They're terrible!
harry		How could I have thought these takes were the good ones! What was I thinking!
harry		May I come in?
diego		 Yes, come in!
harry		Luis, the editor, sent it to me six years ago. At that time I didn't even bother to open it, I didn't want to know anything about him. I am now thinking
diego		At the end he says this is my new number, a number's written down.
harry		Call him, please!
diego		Right now? It's too early.
harry		It doesn't matter.
diego		May I get dressed? I'm naked...
harry		Oh, I'm sorry.
harry		 Could I speak to Luis, please?
woman's voice		 Luis died six years ago!
harry		Oh, I am so sorry... I had no idea!
voice		It was cancer. I'm his widow. Who are you?
harry		Mateo Blanco. Luis edited all my films...
voice		 Mateo Blanco! Luis spoke to me about you. I am his second wife...
harry		The one I know is Nieves, the first one.
voice		We married twelve years ago.
harry		 I am sorry to hear about Luis' death. I would have liked to speak to him...
voice		He would have liked so too! Once he was quite ill and didn't want to speak to anyone, he would always tell me that, if it was you, I should hand him the phone...
harry		You have no idea how sorry I am!
diego		What's going on?
harry		My editor. I just found out he died six years ago...
harry		Not long before he died he sent me this notebook. But I didn't want to know anything about him, I also didn't know he was dying... and I put it away... until today... His wife just told me he would have liked to speak to me, that was the purpose of sending me the notebook... but I didn't give him the chance.
diego		Had you spoken since the accident?
harry		No. Never.
diego		The coffee is in front of you...
diego		Are you OK? Would you like me to stay here?
harry		No, no... You're heading out?
diego		My mother arrives today. I would like to be home when she arrives.
harry		I didn't know she was arriving...
diego		I didn't either, she left me a message this morning. She's coming to celebrate your birthday, with us...
harry		It's my birthday?
diego		It seems so. Today's the , does that sound right?
harry		Yes. A day like today, fifty-one years ago, I entered the world.
judit		I was dying to see you! Are you OK, my son?
diego		Yes.
judit		I was very worried about you!
diego		Mateo has looked after me day and night...
judit		Mateo? You're not calling him Harry...?
diego		Yes...
diego		Nothing... Watching movies... and talking...
judit		 Talking?
diego		Yes...
judit		What about?
diego		Mom, please!
judit		OK. So what happened to you?  I don't know if I should believe the thing about the stomach flu, you two used that as an excuse in a script...
diego		 ... an accident. But I would rather not speak of that right now...
judit		 What kind of accident?
diego		It's hard to explain.
judit		 Try to! I am not that stupid!
judit		What's wrong with you, Diego?
diego		Nothing. I'm doing just fine. I'm going to buy a present for Mateo.
judit		 For Mateo...
diego		Alright, Harry.
judit		Call him however you wish. That's the advantage of having two names.
judit		Wait, my arms are full...
mateo		Are those flowers?
judit		Yes! Happy Birthday!
judit		Thank you for looking after Diego... I don't know how to thank you!
mateo		You've been looking after me for fourteen years now...
mateo		I don't know. It should be your son to tell you.
judit		What is wrong with the two of you? Why is it that he suddenly is not calling you Harry but Mateo?
mateo		 Two weeks ago, at the place where he D.J.'s, by mistake, he grabbed a friend's drink that had been spiked with G.H.B., liquid ecstasy. He thought it was his drink, both drinks had Coca-cola.
judit		Liquid ecstasy?
mateo		Yes. It's a very dangerous drug when it's mixed with alcohol and Diego had already had two Cuba Libres before he drank from his friend's glass...
judit		And... what happened... exactly?
mateo		 He was badly affected. He spent two days in urgent care, after that, I brought him here.
judit		Diego's a drug addict?
mateo		No. I've told you, he drank from the glass containing liquid ecstasy by mistake...
judit		But how can one make a mistake with something like that?
mateo		At first glace one cannot tell the difference. Both glasses contained Coca-cola... It's not the first time it happens...
mateo		Diego has not told you so that you wouldn't be alarmed...
judit		 Well, he hasn't succeeded. At some point he will have to speak to me, no?
mateo		He is wanting to do so!
judit		Is that so? Because I ask him and he doesn't answer!
mateo		Then you should try answering him, when he asks you.
judit		The two of you are acting very differently. Both of you. You both have changed.
mateo		You smell good...
judit		 I have put on some makeup and I am dressed as a woman.
mateo		What's the dress like?
judit		I haven't changed much, Harry. I am wearing my hair short.
mateo		Short like Jean Seberg in "Breathless"? Like Joan of Arc on the bonfire? Like Liza Minnelli in "Cabaret"? Or like Yul Brynner?
judit		Short, or rather, very short, like that of all fortysomethings who want to appear younger.
mateo		I am sure it looks good on you. Thanks for dressing up for me, Judit...
javier		My name is Javier. How many are you?
mateo		Three.
javier		Please, grab onto each other's shoulders and follow me in Indian-file. I will guide you to your table. It's number eight.
judit		What is the idea here, Harry?
mateo		We are dinning in darkness.
javier		You didn't know this, ma'am?
judit		 No...
javier		You should have been warned, but don't worry. People get used to it after a few minutes.
javier		Imagine that your plate is the face of a watch. Your silverware is at 9h and at 3h. Your glass at 1h. Bread at 11h.
judit		Harry, what is all this about?
javier		We want our clients to discover that the lack of sight harnesses the other senses. Touch, taste, smell and sound will acquire a special intensity tonight, ma'am. I hope you'll enjoy them.
javier		Will the gentlemen be drinking something?
mateo		Bring us a bottle of wine, to toast.
mateo		I found out about this place in the newspaper and I wanted to check it out.
diego		It's a German idea, there are various restaurant like this one, they're totally in fashion.
judit		 Darkness, in fashion? I don't understand.
diego		Let's toast!
judit		Yes. Let's toast.
diego		Happy Birthday!
judit		Happy Birthday! We must look into each other's eyes. 
diego		Well, we're kind of screwed...
judit		Oh, sorry... It slipped.
mateo		Joy! Joy!  Bring your ear to me so that I can sprinkle some wine behind it. It's for good luck!
judit		I don't know what you've been talking about these past days...
judit		But I do know what I haven't talked to you about all these years...
mateo		I've never asked you...
judit		But you must have asked yourself a thousand times. This is my birthday gift, Mateo.  The gift is also for you, Diego.
judit		. I opted to stay in Madrid and have Diego undergo his cure here. I wanted to witness everything. If I was going to betray you, I wanted to pay the full price...
mateo		What a living hell! For both of you!
diego		You said it!
judit		Yes. It was torture to watch Ernesto select the worst takes of each shot and Luis edit them together, turning your film into a monster . The only way of withstanding that was to suffer more.  189
mateo		 Don't continue, Judit! It's not necessary.
judit		Yes. Now that you once again call yourself Mateo, I have no excuse.
mateo		 That's why I never called you, but even if you don't believe it, I was very worried for you and the boy.
judit		I believe you...
judit		Ernesto hired various detectives to search for you, but before they found you, you called me, two days after the premier.  I was too embarrassed to answer, and... too stunned. I still am. When Ernesto Senior asked me again about you, I don't know why, I gave him the phone number for Famara...
judit		 191
judit		He was the one who found you after the accident and called the hospital...
diego		Did he have something to do with the accident?
judit		No! But I can't stop thinking that had I not given his father the phone number, perhaps nothing would have happened...
mateo		 Why do you think that?
judit		I don't know...
mateo		 If you don't know, then stop torturing yourself.
mateo		Good night.
judit		 Good night. Call me if you need anything...
diego		 You are sweating...
judit		It's a panic attack...  Hand me the purse!
judit		I will sleep well with this...
diego		Do you want me to stay here?
judit		 Here? What for?
diego		In case the panic returns, so that you don't feel alone.
judit		Thank you. I am feeling better... and I'll fall asleep soon.
diego		Call me, if you are not feeling well...
waiter friend		Why here so early?
mateo		I couldn't sleep. Would you mind dialing this number?
judit		How impressive!
diego		I am specializing in breakfasts. I would do the same for Mateo...
diego		Are you OK?
judit		Yes,  don't worry about last night. It's horrible, but it only happens occasionally and I know how to stop it...
diego		It scared me, it seemed as though an alien would pop out of your stomach.
diego		About Mateo?
judit		Yes.
diego		You can tell me some other time. Now it's time for breakfast.
judit		If I don't tell you now, I may never do so... At the end of the eighties, in `77, to be exact.
diego		The year of punk.
judit		Yes, in the year of punk, Mateo and I became involved...
diego		In a love affair?
judit		Yes... We were just getting started in film, and we are still at it, but our love affair ended, at least on his side... That didn't keep us from working together... until now...
diego		I knew all that, or I imagined it...
judit		There's one more thing... Mateo is your father...
diego		And that fleeting lover, my supposed biological father? You made him up?
judit		No... I... can hide things... but I never make things up... I don't know how to make up... The fleeting lover existed, he was gay and our affair was short-lived. His name was Vicente and it was while I was with him that you were conceived, but your biological father was Mateo, not Vicente.
diego		 Does Mateo know?
judit		No. At that time, he asked me and I denied it, of course. I didn't want to put pressure on him, I didn't want our relationship to change because of it. After all, I had never asked him if he wanted to become a father.
diego		I see...
diego		I will not recriminate you... I think I like being Mateo's son  ... Speaking of, he called early this morning...
judit		Who?
diego		Mateo. At 8h.
judit		What did he want?
diego		For you to call him as soon as you could.
judit		 That I call him? Why in the world have you not awakened me?!
diego		Because, after what happened last night, you needed to sleep. He didn't say it was urgent. You can call him now.
mateo		 I am not alright, Judit. And yes, I do need something... The forty thousand meters of negative we shot during my last film in order to edit it... I am at the home of Ernesto Junior and I just found out the material was destroyed in '94. I imagined something like this, I just didn't think it would have happened that soon...
judit		 Let me explain...
mateo		 No. I am in a hideous mood, Judit, and I don't want to take it out on you!
judit		 What are you doing at Ernesto's house?
mateo		I think I am going to bribe him. We need money, I don't want Diego back at that damn bar. I want to pay Diego a salary, we need money and he has money to throw...
judit		Mateo, stop talking crazy!
mateo		It is not craziness. I can't think of anyone else to blame for Magdalena's death.
judit		My God!  Wait a second... I have something to tell you.
mateo		Let it be, you already said enough last night.
mateo		Since you insist, I will ask you. What do you have to tell me?
judit		In effect, Ernesto Senior asked for it to be destroyed.
mateo		In '94! Very shortly after the release of that aberration.
judit		Yes. In any case, sooner or later the lab disposes of all the material... and that was many years ago.
mateo		That's not anything that I don't already know.
judit		As the film's producer I was the only one who had access to the lab... to all the material. After I gave the order to have everything destroyed, I intercepted it. And I kept it. I have all of it at home.
mateo		You are lying to me.
judit		I didn't tell you this last night because I didn't realize you wanted to edit it. I took everything, all the double takes, the internegative, the sound tapes... Everything! You can have it whenever you want!
mateo		That changes everything.
judit		 Please, get out of that place, leave Ernesto alone. He had nothing to do with this.
mateo		I am not so sure. He has yet to explain what he was doing in Lanzarote. I'll let you go, it seems he wants to talk... 
mateo		And why would I want that? I can't watch it! Plus, I'm not interested.
mateo		Is there something new I should know about?
diego		 It's a very interesting documentary... And, yes, in effect, Ernesto followed you to Lanzarote, until the last moment.
mateo		The images are there?
mateo		Those of the last night?
diego		Yes. He recorded you at a safe distance, while you were on you way back after dinner. The scene is lit by the light of his headlights. It's not a lot, but enough to see what happened. Not only did he not have anything to do with the accident, he saved your life.
diego		And one more e thing: When you were at the traffic circle, before the SUV crashed into to you, you and Lena kiss...
mateo		A kiss? I don't remember it...
diego		It was an ordinary kiss, just one more of the many kisses a couple gives each other, almost without thinking...
mateo		 The last kiss...
pina		 Oh, it's you?
chon		 I have left you a thousand messages!
pina		Yes. A thousand from you and none from Ivan.
chon		 What about this suitcase!
pina		It's Ivan's. He's leaving me.
chon		And that cast on your leg?
pina		His ex-wife, the crazy one. She pushed me down the stairs...
chon		Well, we're in good shape! I've also broken up with my husband...
pina		Oh, sorry to hear it! I will make some coffee, I have spent my entire night looking for Ivan and I haven't gone to bed.
chon		Neither have I.
pina		When did you leave him?
chon		Four days ago. I could see it coming. The thing is that after breaking up, I go out onto the street and I notice there is this "guy" looking at me.
chon		 Oh my, gazpacho! Can I have a bowl?
chon		How so?
pina		In case Ivan arrived, he loves gazpacho.
chon		 Pina, my God!
pina		And that's not all! Since he wasn't calling, I've torn the phone from the wall, in a moment of rage...
chon		I've tripped on the thing, but I didn't want to pry... And the bed? I think I noticed it smoking a bit...
pina		I dropped a lit match and it began to burn, and I didn't want to squelch it. Fire purifies. I will have to change the mattress, but all for the best! A whole lot of less memories!
pina		But excuse me, I've interrupted you. You were telling me...
pina		 211
chon		 Yes. I was telling you that I also have a suitcase at home.
pina		Your husband's?
chon		No. It's a suitcase with fifteen kilos of cocaine, uncut.
pina		You've become a dealer, Chon?
chon		No! How could you think that! I am still a Counselor for Social Affairs in the City Hall! The suitcase appeared in my closet. Imagine the scandal if the police find out. They could put me in jail!
chon		I have to get rid of those fifteen kilos as soon as possible.  Because of the hours we keep, politicians consume a lot of drugs. So, between my party cohorts and city hall, I could distribute two kilos, but what do I do with the rest!
pina		Throw it out!
chon		Are you crazy? How could I throw it out?! I have to keep the police from finding it in my house... I have to take it some other place, immediately!
pina		But I don't understand...
chon		 Well, it's clear, honey!
pina		 How is it that the suitcase appeared in your closet?
pina		An how was he?
chon		In bed? Divine. Look at my arm hair? I've got goose-bumps! (She shows her the hair on her arm,
pina		So you lost your mind...
chon		What else could I do?! So he asked me if he could stay at my place for a few days and I said OK, but I couldn't promise anything. I didn't want him thinking that I was that easy. So  By pure chance, I am watching TV last night and I find out that the police have nabbed him in the course of a drug sting operation and that he is one of the most wanted traffickers! I open the suitcase and I discover that it is filled with little bags of cocaine. I ran out of the house and I haven't returned since...
pina		What a story, my God!
chon		 Look, the goose-bumps!
pina		I've seen them already... They comes easy for you...  And the suitcase?
chon		 I was going to ask you... if you didn't mind that I brought it here. If they find it in my house, well, it's not about what could happen to me, but that it's just not an ideal situation for the Counselor of Social Affairs. Imagine how upset the mayor would be, and my party! My party can't take one more scandal!
chon		The police!
pina		Shush, how could it be the police?! No one knows you're here!
chon		I am a woman who attracts attention, Pina. Since I was a little girl...
pina		Just pretend you're here for coffee...
diego		This is hilarious!
mateo		 It doesn't sound like what we watched on TV, right?
diego		Not at all! This is a whole different thing!
judit		It's wonderful, Mateo. We should re-release it.
mateo		The important thing is to finish it. Films must be finished.
****Dialogues from script :Brothers_Bloom.txt****

narrator		As far as con man stories go, I think I've heard them all. Of grifters, ropers, faro fixers, tales drawn long and tall. But if one bears a bookmark in the confidence man's tome, twould be that of Penelope, and of the brothers Bloom.
narrator		At ten and thirteen Bloom and Stephen 
narrator		had been through several foster families.
2		 4   CONTINUED:                                                  4
narrator		Mischief moved them on in life, and moving kept them close.
narrator		For Bloom had Stephen, Stephen Bloom, and both had more than most.
narrator		Another home, another main street. Stephen looked around, then summed the burgh up thusly:
stephen		Bloom, we've hit a one hat town.
narrator		One theater. One car wash. One cafe. One park. One cat. Which, through some mishap, had one leg.
stephen		Sweet Jesus. Look at that.
narrator		One school, which meant one tight- knit group of local well-off kids.
narrator		Their pocket-change bought rocket pops,
narrator		The brothers,
stephen		Pixie Stix.
narrator		They were the `they'. All well loved, rooted, happy as you please.
stephen		The playground bourgeoisies.
narrator		Could he simply
narrator		Just drop his fears and go? Leave his brother in the woods, and join the children?
bloom		What's doing?
stephen		What?
bloom		You shuffle when you're thinking something through. So whatcha thinking?
stephen		Not a thing.
narrator		This wasn't really true. Cause in the root of Stephen's psyche, something now began. A seed of grand epiphany. A hook. A tale.
stephen		A plan.
narrator		A fiction made for profit, in which both boys played a part. A simple con in fifteen steps.
stephen		And this is where we start.
narrator		And then, as if a curtain had been pulled back from the sky... Some barrier within the younger Bloom was broken.
bloom		Hi.
narrator		So Bloom performed his role in Stephen's story to a T.
narrator		And being who he wasn't, could be as he wished to be.
stephen		Oh - kay. How's it going on the playground front?
bloom		It's great.
stephen		So, on to step eleven, then.   The Tale. You tell them -
bloom		Wait...
narrator		Must the numbers rattle on?    Must the fiction end?
bloom		I think I need more time to win their-
stephen		Bloom. They're not your friends. They're part of this, and this aint real. Remember, it's a con. And when it's done, we've just got us. And we'll be moving on.  So, the tale. You tell them there's a
bloom		hermit in the woods. A one eyed, steel toothed vagabond...
bloom		...with blood red eyes?
stephen		 That's good. He stopped you coming home from school...
bloom		...and told me of a cave.
girl		What kind of cave?
bloom		A cave of wonders.
boy		Pffft ha.
girl		Shut up, Dave.
bloom		At noon on every Sunday, there appears a ball of light, which flutters like a butterfly...
girl		A will-o-whisp?
bloom		That's right. It guides you
stephen		...if you can keep up...
bloom		...to where the treasures lay.
boy		So where's this cave?
girl		Yeah, where?
stephen		Ah-hah. The hermit didn't say. He got this greedy glinting look, the filthy red-eyed leech... and said he'd tell for thirty bucks.
excited boy		Well that's just two bucks each!
narrator		So Sunday came...
narrator		...and straight from church, into the woods Bloom led.
narrator		They stopped. Their hearts leapt. There it was.
girl		Just like the hermit said!
narrator		For just one moment, Bloom forgot himself and ran too fast.  He puts on a burst of speed, gets ahead of the crowd.  NARRATOR  But the moment passed.  The other kids and the girl pass him, but Bloom stands dead still, a strange expression on his face.  The girl turns back towards him, still running, and holds out her hand for him to follow.  But he doesn't.    He stays behind, and is soon left alone.
narrator		They didn't catch the will-o-wisp, but didn't really care.
stephen		It seems to me that in the end, the perfect con is where each one involved gets just the thing they wanted.
bloom		Yeah I guess so.
narrator		Our fledgling thieves were satisfied.
narrator		The children's parents, less so.
narrator		A bitter ending? Maybe. But there's sweetness in the mix.
narrator		`O'Henry's' was the town's one dry clean shop.
stephen		So how's it feel?
narrator		In truth, young Bloom won't know for twenty years just how he felt.
stephen		Let `em melt.
young man		He gets the scarab, you get the money, I get the girl... so in the end, everyone gets everything he wants.
charleston		Cause the Turk was right. After seeing her, after that night on the airstrip, after Cairo everything changed, and he couldn't see the play through that one milky eye, but the Turk was right about one thing, that there's nothing beautiful about money. She's beautiful.
mcguire		This isn't happening...
charleston		He'll never have her now. She's free. And I'll never see her in scarlet again, her chestnut hair, but it's worth the money and my job and his life and the rest of my life that she's free.
mcguire		Charleston. I can't be here...
charleston		You're not here. Neither of us are. It's Mowcher's gun.
mcguire		Mowcher is at the bottom of the Spree with a cowl in his neck!
charleston		They won't find him for a week, and the Albino will chalk it up to Davey, he won't talk. We're clean.
mcguire		Listen to you - four months ago you were an investment banker! Now you're nothing. The Scarab's lost. The money's gone. It'll rot in the Peruvian earth. It's gone.
16		 40   CONTINUED:                                             40
charleston		The man named Charleston you met nine months and a thousand years ago at the hotel bar in Jodhpur is dead. If we see each other again it'll be as strangers. As for the money... let it rot.
mcguire		Wow.
victor		 You're a genius, Stephen.
stephen		We're a genius, Bloom.
bloom		Tastes like tin foil.
stephen		So does real blood. Buy you a drink.
stephen		"Four months and a thousand years ago." That's Kipling, isn't it? He stole that from Kipling.
bloom		No.
the turk		Make way, make room for the brothers Bloom!
the turk		Nine months, six countries, three faked deaths, for one mark. You're a beautiful antique, my friend.
all		Proust.
the turk		One thing baffles me. The entire con would have fallen apart if Charleston had walked away. How did you know he'd pull the trigger?
stephen		Just think of any card.    Got one?
the turk		No.
stephen		But if I do it enough, eventually it'll work on someone. And then it'll be the best card trick in the world.
the turk		It's true you never work with the same crew twice?
stephen		That's true.
the turk		Well shit.     Except for the uh, for her?
stephen		La Chinoise?
the turk		Yeah.
romanian		Yeah, I'm pretty big into anime.
stephen		Our fifth Beatle. She knows the ins and the outs, and so far as I can tell, speaks three words of English.
the chink		Jameson.
bartender		Ice?
the albino		So she's with you and Bloom till the end.
stephen		Just till the wind changes.
the turk		Where is Bloom?
rose		There you are. Hiding?
bloom		Yeah.
rose		I've been learning.      Stephen likes to talk about you.
bloom		Did he tell you the cave story?
20		 44   CONTINUED:                                             44
rose		Is it true?
bloom		What else did he tell you?
rose		I'm not going to tell it as good as Stephen. You two kicked around till your early teens, then stowed away on a merchant marine freighter and ended up in St. Petersburg, where you spent five years under the tutelage of a shadowy old swindler named the Diamond Dog. And he was your Fagin and Stephen was his Artful Dodger, but it ended suddenly and badly.
bloom		Stephen took his eye out with an antique rapier.
rose		Why did he do that?
bloom		And then the Brothers Bloom lit out on their own to make their fortune as gentleman thieves. Sounds romantic.
rose		It does.
bloom		You want to know how Stephen did it? With Charleston?
rose		It's not the first thing on my mind.
wife		This is the end. Charelston, you've always been a dunce.
bloom		That's what he does, he writes his cons the way dead Russians write novels, with thematic arcs and imbedded symbolism and shit. And he wrote me as a vulnerable anti- hero. And that's why you think you want to kiss me. It's a con.
stephen		Who doesn't? 
stephen		We missed the sunrise.    That would've been nice.
stephen		 Back to the swamps!
bloom		`Do we have to go through this again.'
stephen		Then you make a show of putting on your jacket and say `no I mean it this time Stephen, this time I'm really out.'
bloom		Then you say `let's have a drink, and in the morning Bloom you'll have come to your senses'
stephen		 That's a major design flaw in fake blood, by the way.
bloom		`and we'll be moving on.'
stephen		Real blood turns brown after a half hour.
bloom		Listen to me, Stephen.
stephen		This scotch costs more than your suit.
24		26/11/06. 48   CONTINUED:                                            48
bloom		Listen to me.
stephen		And the flask stopped a bullet from a black powder rifle at Appomattox.
bloom		Listen.
stephen		That's my new favorite camel.
bloom		I hate you. I hate this life, I hate it, I hate that you won't fucking listen to me for one goddamn second. Just listen.
stephen		Tell me what you want.
bloom		Why? So you can write me a role in a story where I get it? You're not listening to me. I want a real... thing, I wanna do things how I don't know are gonna work out, a, I, want, a...
stephen		 You want an unwritten life.
bloom		I want an unwritten life!  Aauuugghh god!
stephen		Sorry bud.     I'm dry.
stephen		She's right, you know.
bloom		Why are you here, Stephen?
stephen		Put on your face, let's eat.
bloom		How'd you find me?
stephen		The Chink.
bloom		How'd the Chink find me?
stephen		How've you been?
bloom		Great.
stephen		I've done a lot of thinking the past three months. You don't want out. You think you do but you don't. Here, c'mere. I want to show you something.
bloom		I'm quits, Stephen.
stephen		New Jersey.
bloom		 Well lemme get my jacket.
bloom		Looks like an etching from a Bronte novel.
stephen		Big money. Inheritance. Dad died early, Mom died two years ago after ten years fighting an illness that I can't pronounce.
bloom		How much?
stephen		Look out.
bloom		What am I doing here, Stephen? I have one rule, and you've never even tested it.
stephen		Stick with me.
bloom		No women. One rule. You know we don't do women, I don't, and it's not a morality thing or- a thing- it's, whatever it is it doesn't matter what it is, that's just our rule. So what are we,  Did you rent a `78 Caddy?
stephen		Penelope Stamp. Thirty three. Lived at home her whole life.
bloom		An eccentric shut-in rich bitch. You're not helping your case.
stephen		She's bored, a seed in the snow. We're going to put her through a grand adventure, bring her to life.
bloom		So this is the big plan. Lure me back into things with some beautiful intriguing elusive girl, stir up old memories with the prospect of redemption and rebirth. Seriously Stephen. Amateur night.
30		 56   CONTINUED:                                             56
stephen		It's actually pretty simple. We're brothers, antique dealers, perusing the Americas for antiquities en route to someplace exciting via luxury steamer, say Greece. You tie into her and work your magic...
stephen		...and so that's how it ends, in Mexico, a burst of violence then a moment of truth on the beach. What do you think?
bloom		You've got something up your sleeve. This is about me, right? Somehow.
stephen		This might not be something you know, but they've all been about you. Maybe that's why they've none of them been perfect, I've never been able to give you what you really want.
bloom		I want to be outta all this. So by definition, this is not going to give me what I want.
stephen		I will never approach you to do another con again.  Let's make it a red Schwinn.
bloom		There are less painful ways to cut into a mark.
stephen		Wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk wahk. Score to beat is 7.9. Keep your head in the game, the Chinese judge is tough.
bloom		This is a banana seat, man!
penelope		Are you alright?
stephen		The Chink had it - I'm telling him, I know, thank you - in her report, I missed it. This is actually kind of great, I'll tell you why.
bloom		You missed it?
stephen		Dostoevsky was an epileptic.
bloom		I know.
stephen		His seizures were preceded by an enlightened euphoria, a sort of opening of his spiritual eye. 
penelope		I think they took my car.     Could you drive me home?
bloom		Uh.   Yeah.
penelope		I'm Penelope Stamp.
bloom		Bloom.
penelope		S' ok.
bloom		Nice area.  Jersey.
penelope		This car is like riding in a huge marshmallow.
penelope		For the bike, and the whole, thing. This was a big shit sandwich. Ok. Bye.
penelope		I realized... I should have... invited you in... for coffee... right?
bloom		...didn't really have anyone except each other growing up, and our father was in the antique business, he had a shop in Charleston. So we stuck together, my brother Stephen and me, we and just took over the shop when dad died. Then we realized one day, we saw the dealers who were finding and selling us the antiques coming from exotic countries all over the world, and there was a, almost a scent they had, when they'd come in the dusty shop we worked nine to five in since we were nineteen, the air would, like before a rain, the ions would line up, and you could just smell midnight trains to Paris and steamer ships and Calcutta bazaars, and we made the decision, we just did it, that we want to have that sort of life. So we did, and we've been travelling and treasure hunting the world ever since, and could you, I'm sorry, stop doing - that, you're, I'm, ok. Alright, look.
penelope		I'm really bad at talking to people.
bloom		I told you, that's alright. You want me to go?
penelope		No!   I want to talk to you.   Fuck.
bloom		So what kind of stuff do you do?
penelope		Nothing.   Maybe you should go.
bloom		Alright. I'm just gonna finish my coffee first.
penelope		I collect hobbies. I see someone doing something I like, and I get books and learn how to do it.
bloom		Hm.   Anything interesting?
penelope		Not really.
bloom		Is that it?
penelope		No.   I know a lot of stuff.
bloom		You just learned this stuff, here by yourself?
penelope		Kinda sad.
bloom		No. So you just thought, `so I want to learn this and this,' and you just did it? How do you plan to use all these skills?
penelope		I dunno. I'm not a planner. I just do stuff. Here, look at this watermelon. It's a camera. You can make a pinhole camera out of anything hollowish and dark.
bloom		It's gotta warp the image though, right?
39		 66   CONTINUED:                                             66
penelope		No, yeah it does. That's what - the Taj Majal taken by a fat tourist with diarrhea and a point- and-shoot camera can be the flattest, dullest, "here's us at the Taj Majal," "Oh lovely lets go stick our thumbs up our asses" picture. But you can look at the most menial everyday thing, and depending on how your pinhole camera eats the light, it's warped and peculiar and imperfect. It's not reproduction, it's storytelling.
bloom		It's a lie that tells the truth.
penelope		I dunno about truth. A photograph is a secret about a secret. The more it tells you, the less you know.
bloom		What's changed between now and twenty minutes ago? Cause this is kinda like a conversation.
penelope		Huh.    Well shit.
bloom		Well, I should, uh, it's late. So. I meet a lot of people in my job I have to professionally act interested in. It's a good feeling to be genuinely interested in someone.
penelope		Are you leaving?
bloom		Yeah.
penelope		Are you coming back?
bloom		Well next time I'm in town. We're taking a steamer at noon tomorrow off the docks, to the continent for a few months.
penelope		Goodbye Bloom.
bloom		I need another day with her.
stephen		You'll have two weeks on the boat.
bloom		I need another day to get her on the boat, she isn't hooked. That bit I skipped where we were talking in the backyard, it was ten minutes on the optics of lensless photography, we didn't really talk.
stephen		It isn't the talking that hooked her.
bloom		I think you're wrong.
penelope		Hey.
bloom		Hi.    What are you doing here?
penelope		You left this money in my kitchen.
bloom		Yeah, I didn't want it, but thanks.
penelope		Oh.  Hey, where's this boat going?
bloom		Why did you decide to come?
penelope		Well I'd never been to Greece. Or Europe. Or outside New Jersey.
bloom		It just seems like a big leap. From where you were at yesterday to being a world traveler.
penelope		It looked like fun.   I wanted to do it.
bloom		A new hobby.
bloom		Penelope, this is my brother Stephen.
stephen		Pleased to make your acquaintance. Bloom's told me about you, you're the epileptic photographer?
penelope		Sort of.
stephen		This is my personal secretary and masseuse, Mrs. Yuengling.
penelope		Yuengling like the beer?
43		 71   CONTINUED:                                                71
stephen		Heh. No. So what are your plans in Greece?
penelope		I don't plan.
stephen		Good for you.
bloom		You named the Chink `Yuengling?'
stephen		I was writing in a bar. And she doesn't drink, how does she know a Philly beer?
bloom		She knows a lot of stuff.  Was that who I thought it was on the East deck this morning?
stephen		Yes it was. Did he spot you?
bloom		Not yet.
bloom		You look very nice.
penelope		I make cameras out of watermelons.
bloom		Lonely.
penelope		Lucky guess.
bloom		How was it lonely?
penelope		Fishing for an entertaining childhood anecdote that encapsulates my adult issues?
bloom		Well it's funny how everyone's usually got one.
penelope		When I turned six I started getting allergies, hayfever, rashes, really bad. So my mom took me into the doctor, and he did that test where they use needles to prick a grid on your back with all the different toxins, to see which ones you're allergic to. The next day I came in, the doctor lifted up my shirt, and my back looked like a patch of oily, moldy, blackish green double- puff marshmallows. I was allergic to everything. So they sealed the house with plastic and a special ventilation system, and I spent my entire childhood and adolescence indoors. Mostly alone. Lonely.
45		 73   CONTINUED:                                             73
bloom		Wow.
penelope		It wasn't `til I was nineteen they discovered what I was actually allergic to was the aluminum alloy the hypodermic needle was made out of. Then I was going to leave, but my mom got sick. So I stayed. And she stayed sick, a long time.
bloom		Do you feel cheated?
penelope		The trick to not feeling cheated is to learn how to cheat. So I decided this wasn't a story about a miserable girl trapped in a house that smelled like medical supplies wasting her life on a dying person she sometimes hated. It was about a girl who could find infinite beauty in anything, any little thing. And do anything she decided to do. And love the person she was trapped with. So I told myself that story until it became true. Now did doing that let me escape a wasted life, or did it just blind me so I wouldn't want to escape it? I don't know. But either way, I was the one telling my own story. So I don't feel cheated.
the curator		And a magician is just an actor playing the part of a magician.   My compliments.
penelope		Who is that man? You avoided him earlier on the deck.
bloom		I don't know, but he's carrying a knife up his sleeve and wearing a cape. Do me a favor and steer clear of him.
penelope		I went through a phase when I was mildly obsessed with the Bolero.
bloom		Give me a minute.
the curator		Mademoiselle.
penelope		Monsieur.
the curator		 I didn't mean to startle you.
penelope		 Yes you did.
the curator		 It's been such a time since I've encountered the Brothers Bloom.
penelope		You're in antiques?
the curator		 Antiques. I wonder, my dear, if you know the true nature of the men you travel with?
bloom		It isn't a Spanish band, but they'll do their best.
48		 75   CONTINUED:                                                75
penelope		How'd you find her?
bloom		The Chi-nese, uh, Yeungling?   She found us.
penelope		I like her.
bloom		Good.
stephen		I invited him, sit down. This ship's too small to dance around each other for a week, we might as well have it out now. Bloom. Sit. Penelope, do you know our friend?
penelope		Only as the creepy Frenchman.
the curator		Book-learned. You know languages but not accents, my dear. I am Belgian. Maxmillion Melville, at your service.
bloom		Also known in certain professional circles as the Curator.
penelope		Pleased to make your acquaintance. What do you do?
the curator		I'm a curator, presently for the National Museum in Prague. And yourself?
penelope		I'm an epileptic photographer.
the curator		Good for you. Boys? What do you do?
stephen		We have a legitimate antique reselling business.
the curator		Baissez le rideau, la farce est jouee.
stephen		We've gone straight, Max.
the curator		Pardon, but you do not ascend to the grand heights of the Brothers Bloom only to toss it all and sell terra cotta to blue haired weekend antiquers.
stephen		We did.   Eat your waffles.
the curator		But Mademoiselle appears... confused. Perhaps she is unawares?
bloom		Eat your waffles, fat man.
the curator		Unaware that the Brothers Bloom are in fact the two most highly respected art smugglers in the western world?
stephen		Were. We've been on the straight for three years. So that's that.
the curator		Well, if that is that, then that is indeed that. As you say.
penelope		Your name's Melville?
the curator		Maxmillion Melville, Esquire.
51		 79   CONTINUED:                                             79
penelope		Sorry, no, cause I noticed but I couldn't place it, this ship is the Fidele, which was the ship in Melville's novel "The Confidence Man." So that's weird.
stephen		Huh.
bloom		I know you like to throw those clever little details in, but you've gotta watch that shit with her Stephen. She had a lot of time alone in that house, and she used it. She did the best Double Dutch Queens I've ever seen up on the deck last night.
stephen		Double Dutch Queens uses gaffed cards.
bloom		She had them in her purse and cut them in while I was folding my napkin.
stephen		Jesus.
bloom		That's what I'm saying. She's different, she knows, sometimes it feels like she knows everything. Doesn't that worry you?
stephen		No. But something about her is worrying you plenty.
bloom		She feels like one of your characters.
stephen		The day I con you is the day I die, Bloom.
bloom		I know that.  How did you get the Belgian, on our budget?
stephen		He's beautiful, right?
bloom		I didn't expect him to actually be Belgian.
stephen		I'm not sure he is.   I'm to bed.
stephen		Shut up.   I know what I'm doing.
penelope		Smugglers. It's like an adventure story. Whose idea was it to go straight?
bloom		Mine. Stephen always loved the life. Then he was almost killed on a run to Jakarta, two thugs with heads like canned hams worked him beyond all reason.
stephen		Have at thee, you ham headed bastards!
bloom		And I called it, that was it.
penelope		Scary.
bloom		For me. Stephen enjoyed it. He loved the idea that we were internationally infamous art smugglers, but I think deep down, same as me, he felt like we were putting on a persona, faking it.
penelope		Telling a story.
bloom		He'd love to die on a job. Cornered at midnight on a run to Jakarta. That's his dream, to tell his story so well it fulfills itself. It somehow would make it finally real for him.
penelope		That's kinda the thing we all want, right?
bloom		Trying to get something real by telling yourself stories is a trap. Trust me on that one.
the curator		Best of luck with the antiquing, boys. Au revoir, Chinois. 
bloom		My French is a little rusty, but I believe he just told you `my offer stands.'
penelope		He came out of nowhere last night.
bloom		Oh lord.   What has he got?
penelope		An 8th century prayer book.
56		 90   CONTINUED:                                                90
bloom		That's what he does.
stephen		Wonder who's his fence?
bloom		Probably his Spanish guy, right?  Did he say who's buying?
penelope		An Argentinian. Argentine? Argentinian?
the curator		A gentleman from Argentina. He's quite sick, cancer in his bones, and desperate for sentimental reasons to own this piece while he may.
penelope		He'll sell it to a middleman for one million, US. The Argentin...a guy will pay two point five.
stephen		Not bad.
penelope		Is he legit?
stephen		The Curator? That's a relative term. He's telling the truth.
bloom		I'm sorry you had to deal with that guy.
penelope		The train station.
bloom		Where's the train going?
penelope		Prague.
bloom		No.
penelope		Why not?
bloom		Well first off, we don't have a million dollars.
penelope		I do, I've got, that's whatever.   I mean a real reason.
bloom		This is real, it's dangerous, it could go very bad.
penelope		I think a little real danger might suit me. I'm gonna do it. 
bloom		This is not an adventure story.
penelope		What are you talking about?    It totally is.
stephen		Take it easy. She's having fun, that's the point of this.
bloom		She's making a flag for our "smugglers gang," man. She made me learn a secret smugglers handshake. Unhealthy. This afternoon, when she was writing, in the observation car? A letter? A journal? No. She is getting way too into this.
stephen		What Smugglers Song?
bloom		You know, the one from whatsit, the Disney thing, that Smuggler Song, the `We're a band of smugglers hey, la la la la la, we smuggle by night and drink by day, smugglers ho, ho ho, smugglers...' there, this isn't... there isn't a Smuggler Song, is there? Ok. She made up a Smuggler Song. With hand motions.
stephen		The whole point of this was to sweep her off her feet. Let her enjoy it.
bloom		While it lasts.
stephen		Nothing lasts.
penelope		Smuggling.     From the snack car.
bloom		Fourteen gins? Are you kidding me?
the chink		Jameson.
bloom		I'm not paying for that.
attendant		Ice?
bloom		She made up the Smuggler Song.
penelope		Gin is fuckin fruity. Have you taken this train before?
bloom		Yeah.
penelope		So this is all like fuckin `whatever' to you.
bloom		I usually drink with the Chink in the snack car, play cards.
penelope		With the who?
bloom		Mrs. Yeungling. That's her smuggler nickname.
penelope		That's offensive.
bloom		I think if it were offensive to her, she'd let us know.
penelope		Do I get a smuggler nickname?
bloom		No.
penelope		I think you're constipated.   In your fuckin soul.
bloom		What?
penelope		You've got a big load of grumpy petrified poop up your ass, I'm just calling you out on it. Yeah I'm pretending I'm a smuggler, so you know what? I'm a fuckin smuggler. If that's your thing, fuckin tell it like you own it. When you've got a spotlight in front of your feet, man, fuckin jump into it and dance the shit out of it. Stop fuckin thinking so much. Enjoy the fuckin ride. Fuck.
bloom		Look, I'm not-
penelope		Shh.    I love thunderstorms.
bloom		Nite.
stephen		The last time I was in Prague, I was in love.
penelope		What was she like?
stephen		Pale skin.     Long feet.   So.
stephen		You will go to the bank, that wire should have cleared if you put it in at Athens.
penelope		Cash?
stephen		Candy-Gram. It's us, Max.
the curator		Here, off the Basilica, are offices of administration, and beneath those, an otherwise inaccessible section of catacombs. And the book.
bloom		Administrative offices.    So how do you steal the book?
the curator		The book is already stolen. The stealing is in the bureaucracy, in the filing, red tape. As far as the museum is concerned, the book does not exist. I am the curator, I walk in, pinch the copy girl's baboosh, put the book in a briefcase and walk out. Tomorrow, say, at two.
stephen		Today.
the curator		Today is not a good day.
stephen		Tomorrow. Now what about this Argentinian.
the curator		 Ah, the Argentine? Senor Luise Belguta Rioso. I get his file.
penelope		Gin is slow death, man.
stephen		We'll see you back at the hotel.  Soon.
the curator		From a private collection on the island of Ikaria. That one.
bloom		Who painted it?
the curator		I don't know.
penelope		Why is it the last thing you see every night, and the first thing you see every morning?
the curator		That's a story. You have a minute?
the curator		Mademoiselle.
penelope		Right.   Oh, right.
the curator		Au revoir.
penelope		You aren't constipated. You're scared. What are you scared of?
bloom		Diamond Dog, carrying a cup and a cane.
diamond dog		Bloom. How long has it been?  Can you believe that? Tea? Been a long while.
bloom		If I call Stephen down he'll kill you.
diamond dog		Well then please don't call Stephen down. Look at you, you're terrified. C'mon now, look. Take a look. I'm an old man with no depth perception. You don't have to be scared of me.
bloom		Is this profundity?   Cause you can skip it.
diamond dog		Ha!   Ha ha. Piss and vinegar.
bloom		Don't touch me.
diamond dog		You probably won't believe I loved you boys very much.
bloom		You're going to take your hand away or I'm going to break your arm, there's nothing between.
diamond dog		But love, you know. We know, folks like us, you can always blink and realize that it's a fiction, and like Peter walking on water or Wiley Coyote running off a cliff, if you look down in doubt you'll fall. That's the price of our lives, the wax in our wings. One day Stephen's going to fall. It may be glorious, but he's going to fall hard and he won't be there to tell you what to do and protect you. When he's gone, remember me.
stephen		I'm sorry I wasn't there.
bloom		You can't always be there.
stephen		No, I guess can't.
bloom		That was a real tonal shift.    The Curator's tale.
stephen		I'm a big fan of tonal shifts. I didn't write it for him, though.
bloom		He made it up on the spot?
stephen		I don't know.
stephen		Max?
bloom		We're a little early...
penelope		The Golem came for him. In my dream. Crawled out of the painting and killed him in a horrible way.
bloom		Well at least he had the decency to just skip out on us, not do something tacky like fake his own death.
the curator		 You're a little early.
stephen		I don't get it. If he was hightailing it he could have waited eight hours till we traded the million for the book, and had some traveling money. Well. Back to antiquing. Nothing gained, nothing lost.  And you got to see Prague, which is nice.
penelope		Oh.
bloom		You should stay in the city for awhile, they have these amazing puppet show opera things-
stephen		Oh?
penelope		Oh.
bloom		It's my fault. I can't believe I left you alone with him.
stephen		The check was cashed yesterday afternoon, he'd have deposited it in a Swiss account. I'm sorry Pen.
penelope		What a waste.
bloom		No. No no. Can't you see what happened here, there is no book, we've been swindled -
penelope		But maybe there is, maybe it's real, we don't know!
bloom		It's not real, it's a con.
penelope		It's my money, I'm going to find out for sure. He gave us every piece of information we need.
stephen		We'd need to clear the administrative offices.   Some sort of disruption.
penelope		 C'mon. Help me break into this castle. It'll be fun.
stephen		She's an artist with nitroglycerin. It's kind of her thing.
penelope		I feel like I want to know more about her.
stephen		Check the tat.
penelope		What's it say?
bloom		The literal translation is something about water cranes, but essentially it means "When you're done with something, blow it up."
stephen		There's a smoke detector in these empty rooms in the east tower. So we plant and set off a tiny -  TINY tiny, tiny charge.
bloom		So straight down the corridor, again, tell me where.
penelope		Second left, third right, access hatch behind the copier, I need to sleeeeeeep...
bloom		The abort code if we need to abort is "corned beef." For some reason.
penelope		Bloom, I need to sleep.
bloom		Yeah.
penelope		You know what I feel?
bloom		Horny?
penelope		Scared. All my big talk.       But this isn't a story, it's real.      Fuckin scary.
stephen		Ready?
stephen		Ok.
bloom		Alright?
penelope		Ok.
bloom		For the record, I'm still against this. Why send her in alone?
stephen		Because going in alone is a very important thing to do. She's walking into a zero security tourism office during a fire drill and taking a five hundred dollar manuscript replica from a utility crawlspace. Worst case scenario, a file clerk asks if she's lost. Which isn't even going to happen.  She's in position.
bloom		Uh-
the chink		Fuck me.
bloom		Don't do it don't do it Penelope don't-
stephen		They're locking down the castle, she won't get in.
security guard		To ze back, no panic, to ze back...
bloom		Pen! Don't - abort!   Corned beef! Corned beef!
penelope		I'm in Prague. I burned a man's lips off to break into a castle in Prague.
bloom		Wait. Wait, we're fine. She's fine. If the soldiers find her wandering the halls they'll assume she's a clerk, they'll just shoo her out. So as long as she doesn't do anything suspicious, she's fine.
bloom		The Chief of Police.
penelope		 Thank you sir, I will not soon forget your kindness.
stephen		Let her sleep. Train doesn't leave till eight.
bloom		That was real.
stephen		Yeah, I know.
bloom		Fuckin scary.
stephen		An apple?
bloom		Yeah, but it was part of an epiphany.
stephen		Mexico.
stephen		Oh-kay. We're rendezvousing with Senor Rioso's guys here, on an isolated beach just south of the Mexican port town Tampico. A simple handoff. Penelope and Yeungling will stay with the car, Bloom and I will do the handing.
penelope		You guys seem a little tense.
stephen		Well I'm not thrilled they set this in Mexico. There could be legitimate reasons, but Mexico's - and I don't want to simplistically vilify an entire country, but Mexico's a horrible place. So we'll be careful.
penelope		Is this going to be more dangerous than I think, tomorrow?
bloom		Yeah. You should sleep at the hotel tonight, I'll stay with Stephen at the beach house. You'll need sleep.
penelope		I'm really happy right now.   Are you?
bloom		Right now I am.
stephen		The last box in our last con. Let them begin the beguine. How's it feel?
bloom		She's something special, Stephen.
stephen		Uh huh.
bloom		Can I...
stephen		Be angry at me, you son of a bitch. Don't be pathetic. Make you? Jesus. I told you not to fall for her-
bloom		I'm not gonna do this.
stephen		I don't believe you.
penelope		Hey.
bloom		I know what I've gotta do. I've gotta talk to you. Are you wearing shoes?
penelope		What's up?
penelope		Bloom.   What?
bloom		My brother and I are con men. All things considered, we might be the most respected con man team working today. And everything since you hit me with your Lamborghini, all of this, it's all fake. It's all a con.
bloom		No, we were going to blow you off tomorrow using the cackle bladder, it's a, term, we have actors playing the Argentina guy's men, when we showed up the deal would go bad, they would open fire on us, Stephen and I would pretend to be shot using blood packets, squibs. That's - cackle bladder, in the old days they put fake blood in chicken bladders, so... So you'd escape with the Chink, she'd send you off with a little travelling money and that would be that.
penelope		Wow.
bloom		But that's not how this one's going to end. I love you now, and I want to get you out of this. I'm going to do what I have to do to get you out of this, away from all this for good. Are you ready?
bloom		Stephen's gone into town to prep the Argentina actors. Your money's at his place.
penelope		Money? I don't want the money, let's just leave.
bloom		C'mon.
bloom		So I've told her our whole play. And I'm here. To take her money back. How's that make you feel?
stephen		Disappointed.
bloom		This isn't the ending you wanted?
stephen		It doesn't matter now. This is the way it ends. So let's get it over with.
bloom		Where's the money?
stephen		I ate it.
bloom		Give me the money, Stephen.
stephen		No.
penelope		I don't want the money.
bloom		He's not going to keep a single piece of you.
stephen		I'm sorry you fell in love with her. But she's a mark. And all of this, all of it is a con. Every moment you shared with her, you were just playing the part of a man falling in love. That's what you're afraid of, right? That you don't know the difference? Or maybe that there is no difference. That that's what love is.
penelope		We're leaving.
stephen		 No. You're too scared to leave. You're scared to ride off into a sunset that isn't painted tarpaulin, cause real sunsets are beautiful but they turn into dark uncertain nights. If you were ready for that, you wouldn't be here. The money is in my bedroom. Right behind me. But in my story you don't get the money or the sunset or the girl.
penelope		Bloom.    Let's just go.   Please.
stephen		Tastes like tin foil.
bloom		I'm sorry.
penelope		Bloom...
stephen		Hey.  You actually connected on a few of those punches.
bloom		Did you expect me to do it? To come here tonight, end it the way you wrote it? Or were you really disappointed I didn't run off with her?
stephen		I was disappointed.    But I wasn't surprised.
bloom		I let you do your monologue, but you wanna know why I did it? I did it so she'd never want to see me again. To get her away from all this for good.
penelope		Hello.
bloom		Hey.  The Grandmother keeps up her barrage as she takes the groceries from Bloom, but as soon as she's behind Penelope's back she gives Bloom a wink, points to her and gives a thumbs- up of approval.
bloom		How did you find me?
penelope		The Chink.
bloom		How did you find the Chink?
penelope		She gave me her cell when we got to Mexico.
bloom		I didn't even know she had one.
penelope		I think she's kind of selective in who she gives the number to.
bloom		Why are you here, Penelope?
penelope		Why did you decide to stay with your brother instead of coming with me in Mexico?
bloom		Everything Stephen said that night was true.
penelope		I've been doing a lot of thinking the past three months. I want you to consider something.
bloom		Go away. Everything Stephen said was true. I was just playing you as a mark. Everything between us, none of it was real.
penelope		I don't believe you.
bloom		Pick up... c'mon...
stephen		Hello?
bloom		How quickly can you get to Ferentino?
bloom		Alright.
stephen		So she comes back wanting to work with us. Honestly? I think we'd be lucky to have her. If you called me to hear my opinion on the matter. Which I'm getting the feeling you didn't.
bloom		I did what I did in Mexico to get her out of all this. I would rather die than bring her into the con.
stephen		So maybe you want to tell me what I'm doing in Ferentino.
bloom		You knew she'd come back. What did you figure she was good for, another million?
stephen		One point seven five.
bloom		We will play her again, one last con, but not for money. I'm gonna tell you how this one's gonna end. You built us into this, you're gonna fly us out, end it so she's done with all of us. End it all so it can't start up again.
stephen		You want me to plan a con whose sole purpose is to blow her off for good?
bloom		I love her. You owe me this. I don't want to turn her into me.
penelope		So what's the next job?
stephen		Before we do the next job, we need to liquidate our assets from the last job.
penelope		But you've got-
stephen		Your money from the last job, well that's profit, not capital, the three of us have already split it up. So step one: sell the book of hours.
penelope		I thought it was fake.
stephen		With all your random expertise we couldn't risk a flat out fake. It isn't worth two point five million, we could maybe catch four hundred grand for it, but it's real. Who'd we buy it from?
bloom		Minskie.
stephen		Perfect, we'll sell it right back to him.
bloom		Well there's Demarco or Boyer. Or Roche, if we want to go state-side.
stephen		All traceable. With Minskie out we'd have to go deep black market if we wanted to be a hundred percent clear. There's only one place that's deep enough for that.
penelope		Where?
bloom		Russia. It's like `cancer', I don't even like saying the word.
stephen		We're obviously not going to deal with real Russians. They'll be our guys in a phony set up, they'll take our phony book and give her phony cash, a closed loop. Safe and simple.
stephen		Our "Russians" have arrived.
bloom		Who'd you get, anyway?
stephen		Hm?
bloom		To play the "Russians?"
diamond dog		My boys.
bloom		I don't understand. Tell me so I understand. Three months ago you were ready to blind the old bastard-
stephen		We need someone who can pass for the Russian mob to buy our fake book. The Dog's got his big store right here in St. Petersburg.
bloom		Alright, fuckin stop. You want this to finish in St. Petersburg, you want this to end with the Dog for some what thematic something? Fine but don't tell it like a story, let's say it. Twenty three years ago and I can still smell, that blood red apartment of his, the smell of that place. I hate him Stephen but this isn't that, this is I don't trust him.
stephen		What's he gonna do? Steal our fake money?  I've thought this one out, believe me. And we can't end it without him. Trust me. It's gonna be ok.
diamond dog		Stephen, still the grand architect with your symbols. Red for temptation, white for salvation.
bloom		It's trash. There's visible cross hatching in Franklin's eye.
diamond dog		Hm.  I'll be damned.  Ruskies wouldn't be caught dead handing over a rag bag like this, it should be a steel attache.
stephen		This'll   do. We'll do the drop off at your   store. Make it scary, think a   movie version of the Russian   mafia, but don't hassle her.
diamond dog		Alright.
stephen		So. Our fake Russian attack. One small charge will simulate a bullet hit, and blow out the back window.
bloom		Ok.
bloom		You've been awful quiet.
penelope		Tomorrow it all starts.
bloom		She gives the Dog the book, he gives her the fake money. This is taking too long.
penelope		He hassled me. Took forever looking the book over, haggled the price. Wanted to pay me in Rubles.
stephen		Alright.   Let's get the hell out of Russia.
stephen		OUT!  They all four dive out of the car, Bloom shoving Penelope, tumbling into the thick forest an instant before the car becomes a roiling ball of flame.  Bloom lies shell-shocked, his vision blurry. He vaguely sees Penelope passed out beside him, Stephen on the other side of the car.  A DARK FIGURE comes trotting into the woods, shining a flashlight on the charred car. Goes to Stephen. Reaches down to him...  Bloom's mind flutters away into darkness.
bloom		What happened?
penelope		Are you alright?
bloom		What happened?
penelope		Yeungling went to get another car.
bloom		Where's Stephen?
penelope		We don't know. He was gone.
bloom		Who's got him?
penelope		The Russians.
bloom		Stephen, god please what's happening. I don't know what to do. I don't know Stephen please. Please. What's happening. Please.
penelope		Where does she get all these cars?
bloom		If you know what's happening, now would be a really good time to speak up.
chef		Ah, ah yes, Mr. Bloom.      Yes, ok.
bloom		Uh huh. Assholes. Ok. Um, ok. So I've got "We are all assholes in our own theatrical enterprises." You sure?
chef		And then it end with "Goodbye shit head."
bloom		Shit head?
chef		But it is different meaning in Mandarin, uh, endearing. "Shit head" if you have affection for shit.
penelope		What did it mean?
bloom		I don't know.
penelope		What did it say?
bloom		"We're all of us marks in our own cons." And she said goodbye.
penelope		I still can't believe it.
bloom		That the Chink fell for a car bomb? Neither can I.
penelope		 What? Oh, oh god do you think she faked it? So the Russians would think she was dead?
bloom		Ok.
penelope		Where are you going?
bloom		This wasn't Russians. This was done by an old mentor of ours who wants us off the map. He has an apartment in St. Petersburg. So this is, yeah. I've gotta go back to that apartment to face the Dog and get my brother back. That's how I'm gonna end this.
penelope		We can skip the whole you-sending- me-nobly-away-and-me-refusing-to- leave-your-side-thing.
bloom		Thank Christ.
bloom		If there are shots you run to the car and drive, with or without me.
penelope		What's in there? Tell me who this guy is.
bloom		He's just an old man.
bloom		Dog!   I came back.
penelope		Moth balls.
bloom		Is that what that smell is?
penelope		 It's okay. Honey, it's alright.
bloom		Ask him if anyone else is here.
boy		Nyet.
bloom		Ask him where the Diamond Dog is.
penelope		Diamond Dog?  Where is the Diamond Dog?
boy		 The Dog of Diamonds is gone.
bloom		Get the car started.
penelope		What about him?
bloom		It's alright.
bloom		Get out!   Get out of the car!!
penelope		It's a ransom note. It says they have Stephen, it says they want the money wired to a specific account, they give a bank to do it at and a manager to ask for. 
bloom		I'll wire the money from my account, and we'll go get Stephen.
penelope		It's a lot.
bloom		How much?
penelope		I'll do it, I want to, I've got plenty-
bloom		How much are they asking for?
penelope		One point seven five million.
bloom		Oh.   Oh oh. No no NO.
penelope		What are you talking about?
bloom		There's another possibility that I should of, I'm a fucking idiot. This might all be a con. By my brother. To get me - oh god - he wanted me to face the Dog, to end it, and he gets your money. Oh god. I'm going to be sick.
penelope		Would he do that? To you?
bloom		I don't know. Yes.   Yes of course he would. 
penelope		But you don't know. Let's transfer the money. You don't know.
bloom		Son of a bitch.
penelope		You don't know. This is your brother's life. I'm gonna wire the money.
penelope		Ok.
bloom		I'm so scared. Anything I can imagine finding in there, I'm scared of.
penelope		I'm going to be here when you come out.
bloom		Stephen!
bloom		Stephen!
bloom		 Stephen. Game's up. Come on out. Let's blow this one hat town.
stephen		No!   No Bloom, freeze.
bloom		Stephen, who is it?   Is it the Dog?
stephen		Did Penelope wire the money?
bloom		Yeah.
stephen		They're calling to check right now. Don't move. I'm alright.
bloom		No!
stephen		Stay back!
bloom		Please tell me this is all gonna be ok. Tell me that's a squib, and that's makeup, and that you just gave me what I always wanted and pulled off the perfect con.
stephen		You said it, not me.
bloom		You son of a bitch.
stephen		Tastes like tin foil. Alright here's what I want you to do. The Chink split?
bloom		Yeah.   Clean exit.
stephen		How?
bloom		Car bomb.
stephen		Good. Here's what. Take Penelope back to Helsinki, take that flight to Rio. Lay low like we said. Play out the on-the-run-from- vengeful-Russians thing, that'll be fun for her. Play it like I'm dead, actually - that'll add some gravity to everything, that'll be nice. And I'll see you when I see you.
bloom		Soon?
stephen		I hope not. Last thing you need is me hanging around. Anyway, how could I top this?
bloom		I love you. Bye.
stephen		Hey.    Think of any card.
bloom		Alright.
stephen		You're the only audience I've ever needed.
penelope		Hey. Hey, it's ok. The bridge is coming up, we're almost at the border. Were you dreaming about Stephen?
bloom		Pull over.     Pull over!!
penelope		What is it? You're scaring me-
bloom		What did you ask the Russian kid, in the Dog's apartment? He said the Dog isn't here, then what did you ask?
penelope		How long had he been alone.
bloom		And what did he say?
penelope		Since yesterday morning.
bloom		This is real. They hassled you.
penelope		Bloom-
bloom		The Dog was gone before we got there. They hadn't cleared out of their apartment, they had been cleared out.
bloom		Real Russians. Took his store. They didn't know about his deal with us, but you haggled with them. You really sold the book to real Russians. The Diamond Dog was gone.
stephen		Let's get the hell out of Russia.
bloom		And they came after us.   And Stephen...
penelope		I know.
bloom		Stephen saved my life.
penelope		I know.
bloom		He's gone.
penelope		And he did it so you could live. Your brother loved you. He loved you so much. Look at me. Stephen said something once, I got the feeling he'd rather be telling it to you. He said there's no such thing as an unwritten life. Just badly written ones. I love you. 
****Dialogues from script :Bruce_Almighty.txt****

ally		You're a thing of beauty.     In three, two, one. . . Bruce SNAPS from pissed to instant charismatic TV newsman.  BRUCE For three decades the Kowolski Family Bakery has been a mainstay in downtown Buffalo. Known for their sinfully rich, cream filled, deep fried polski pierogis. And the occasional sugar induced coma that follows. Today, in honor of their 30 year anniversary, Momma Kowolski and her sons Gustov and Vol, decided to do something, a little bit different. Tell me guys, how did this idea come about?
gustov		Well,    Vol said to me, 'Gustov, why don't    we make the biggest chocolate chip    cookie in Buffalo?' And I said,    'Yeah, sure.' BRUCE Wow. Fascinating. Bruce steps up to the HUGE COOKIE. BRUCE The previous Buffalo cookie record was 3 feet, 17 inches baked by Gladys Pelsnick. But this behemoth cookie clearly proving that Gustov and Vol have much more free time. The Kowolski brothers and all celebrate in the background, toasting with big mugs of milk. Bruce steps forward, looks dramatically at camera, slow zoom in as he speaks. BRUCE 
bruce		What? I'm cutting that. They made me wear that stupid thing. I don't even look like myself. The hair is one of the most important parts of an on camera persona. Right out of the gate, I lost the hair advantage. Grace looks at a photo, GRACE Oh, my gosh, look at this one. My sister is so drunk. She places it in the album. BRUCE Grace. Try to stay focused here. I need your help. GRACE Aren't you taking this a little too seriously? BRUCE It's sweeps Grace. It is serious. There's an anchor job open. This is important. This is our future! Bruce points to the TV as he says "future," not realizing he's pointing at the ridiculous image of himself with the hair net bun. Grace can't help but giggle. GRACE I'm sorry. Bruce collapses into Grace's arms like a child. He clearly has a fragile temperament. BRUCE  I'm never going to get anchor doing these kind of assignments. I want my work to matter. GRACE It does matter. You're funny. You make people smile. Come on, take a break, help me put this album together.
bruce		 Yeah, so full of hopes and dreams. GRACE Oh, here's me at my sister's wedding. I caught the bouquet. It's a picture of Grace overpowering the other bridesmaids for the bouquet. BRUCE You look pretty intense, hun. GRACE Well, I was thinking about you. Grace cuddles into Bruce. BRUCE So, you're attracted to me in some way, is that what you're trying to say? Grace rolls over onto Bruce. GRACE You have no idea. BRUCE I was saving myself for the wedding night, but if you keep this up, I may lose my resolve. Grace stands, pulling Bruce up. GRACE Well, that's the way the cookie crumbles. They kiss, stumbling toward the bedroom.
bruce		Hey, that's a good line, but you need more resonance. From the diaphragm.  Well then, let me take these clothes off and slip into my hair net. Grace laughs, Bruce joins in as they disappear into the bedroom. CUT TO: A TELEVISION SCREEN
news clip		I'm Ed Bradley, I'm Merely Safer, an d I ' m -- LESLIE STAHL is HIT IN THE NECK WITH A TRANQUILIZER DART. Her head wavers, then DROPS on the desk. The camera PANS to BRUCE, who lowers a bamboo blow gun, cooly addresses camera. BRUCE ...Bruce Nolan. And this is Sixty Minutes. THE SIXTY MINUTES TICKING CLOCK
bruce		Oh no!   Grace, the dog! GRACE  I'm in the shower! BRUCE Ah! INT. APARTMENT STAIRCASE Bruce runs along carrying the peeing Sam with extended arms dodges a man ascending the stares, who gets sprinkled. BRUCE Whoops, sorry. EXT. APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS Bruce makes it outside, sets Sam down on the grass. Sam looks up innocently at Bruce, finished. BRUCE Oh, you're all done, huh? B-e-a-utiful. EXT. SMALL WONDERS DAY CARE - MORNING Bruce pulls up in his Ford Tauras to a cluster of cars unloading kids. A 2003 MERCEDES SRL passes by. GRACE Wow, nice car, huh? BRUCE Yeah, if you want to rub your success in people's faces. Then Bruce notices a big medical van in front of the school with a BLOOD DRIVE SIGN. BRUCE What's with the hubbub? GRACE We're having a blood drive. BRUCE Creepy. Needles, yech... GRACE Oh, that's a nice response. 
bruce		I mean, it's just s o . . . GRACE Helpful and life saving? BRUCE C'mon, that's your...blood. It's in your body and I don't think it's supposed to come out. Besides, they stockpile that stuff. They have an endless supply frozen in a warehouse somewhere then tell everyone there's a shortage.
grace		They do not. Now stop it. I'm                        * giving. I have a very rare blood                     * type, AB positive. BRUCE Well, I'm IB positive. IB positive they aint touchin' me with no needle. Grace sighs in exasperation, starts out when... GRACE  O. . . h She places a STRING OF PRAYER BEADS on the rearview mirror. BRUCE What's that? GRACE Prayer beads. The kids made 'em. Keep you safe. BRUCE Well, I hope they work, cause it's going take a miracle to get me to work on time. EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY Bruce is stuck in bumper to bumper traffic. He stares at the prayer beads with a "thanks alot" look.
1.		1
bobby		Bruce the goose! Morning, Buddy. Don't even move, I got somethin' special today. My mom made it just for you. BRUCE Well, that's- Bobby, I gotta go- I'm late... BOBBY  Oh, two o'clock, two o'clock, two-o- five, two-ten...
bruce		Really?
bobby		They must have gotten high or something, cause they was orderin' everything, I had. Hey, how long have you been interested in pastry? 'Cause I've got an aunt who makes baklava twenty layers deep.
bruce		 I'll give her a call, we'll talk about it later! INT. STAFF MEETING ROOM - DAY
evan		Is something killing your kids? Find out tonight at eleven. Bruce looks at the sign quizzically for a beat, then continues on.
jack		Okay, promos are approved, let's-- ALLY Ah, isn't that last one a little misleading? I mean, the story's about flu shots. Do we have to scare people to death? EVAN No, just into watching. Or I could change it to: "Slow news day, come yawn with us. At eleven." FRED Sniffles at eleven is nice. DALLAS Attack of the killer sniffles? ALLY  The tanning booth is starting to zap your brain, you know that? DALLAS I don't use a tanning booth. A beat and they all crack up. FRED                                        * Come on. You're turning orange.                       * EVAN                                        * He looks Florida ripe to me.         .                * More laughs.                                                    *
jack		I would have swore I already said this, but promos are approved. Now                  * can we move on?                                     * ALLY Jack, shouldn't the promos be                       * focusing on Pete's retirement. This is his last week. EVAN 
jack		You don't want to be like Evan. Evan's an asshole. BRUCE I can be an asshole.
jack		No, Bruce.     You can't. Bruce thinks, then flips Jack's sandwich plate over. It scatters on the floor. Jack and Bruce stare at each other for a beat. JACK Are you going to pick that up? BRUCE Yeah, I'm sorry. Bruce bends down, starts picking up Jack's food. BRUCE It's just- this anchor position looming, it's gotten me nuts... He hands the plate to Jack, as sexy anchorwoman SUSAN ORTEGA saunters by. JACK                               BRUCE Hi, Susan.                           Hi, Susan. SUSAN ORTEGA Hi, Jack. Bruce blanches at this obvious snubbing. JACK Look, Bruce. You're a good reporter. You make people laugh. God knows today we can use it. Bruce slumps, he's heard this a thousand times before.              * JACK                                    *  Alright, tell you what. It's the                   * 23rd anniversary of the Maid of the Mist. I want you at Niagara Falls in an hour. BRUCE Maid of the Mist. That's always live. JACK Yep. BRUCE Evan gets the live feeds. 
jack		Well now you and Evan get the live feeds. BRUCE I'm going live. In sweeps. JACK Yes, but watch yourself, Bruce. I've seen your outtakes. Bruce hugs Jack, pressing the sandwich against his chest. BRUCE Yes 1 You will not regret this, Jack.  I will not forget you when I go national. Bruce takes off, Jack looks down, peels the sandwich off his chest. We hear children's joyous SHRIEKS... INT. SMALL WONDERS DAY CARE - DAY
grace		Martin. Open your mouth. Abra su boca. He does. His tongue sparkles with glitter. GRACE Oh, you're not huh? Well, then you've got a bad case of Liberace. Grace's sister, Debbie, enters. She's wearing a nurse's outfit. Her youngest, ZOE, 3, runs over to greet her. ZOE Mommy1
grace		They didn't teach you Spanish in nursing school, did they? DEBBIE Well, it seemed like they were speaking a foreign language sometimes, but no. Problemo? GRACE Martin has decided to explore new food groups.  You're good with them, you know. You should have some of your own. GRACE Don't start... DEBBIE Free milk cow. GRACE Debbie, don't call me that. DEBBIE If the moo fits. The phone RINGS. 
grace		Saved by the bell.    Grab that for me, will you? Debbie does. DEBBIE Small Wonders Day Care. EXT. NIAGARA FALLS - DAY Bruce is on his cell phone, while the NEWS CREW races around, setting up for the report. The FALLS ROAR behind him and the Mate of the Mist sightseeing boat is in the b.g. BRUCE Grace? INTERCUT DAY CARE AND FALLS
debbie		 No, it's Debbie. The sister who's life you're not wasting. GRACE Hey. Grace GRABS THE PHONE.
bruce		90 seconds, going live. Think anchor, think dignity,  Ignore umbrella. Just have fun. CUT TO:
susan		Congratulations, Evan. Looks like we'll be sitting side by side from now on. EVAN Thanks, Susan. I ' m thrilled and honored. Like you said, no one can replace the great Pete Fineman, but I'll do my best. I have to say I am so proud to be a part of our local community. Of Buffalo. I think a great city is a lot like a great recipe really. Put in some hard working citizens, add some care givers, maybe a few nuts... The other news anchors and Evan himself chuckle at "his" joke. Bruce listens on the feed, beyond stunned. EVAN  Wow. That was amazing. And now let's go live to wacky Bruce Nolan out at Niagara Falls. EXT. NIAGARA FALLS - CONTINUOUS Bruce stands like a deer in headlights, drenched, holding the ridiculous umbrella. Ally sig nals Bruce he's on. He stares into camera, numb. INT. SMALL WONDER DAY CARE - SAME TIME The kids are gone. Grace watches the TV with a few other teachers. She's concerned. GRACE Talk honey, talk. INT. STUDIO CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS Jack rushes in, looking at Bruce on the monitor. JACK What's going on? 
director		We've got a Walt Disney.
console operator		Frozen solid.
jack		He may not have audio. Check his feed, have Susan cover. INT. STUDIO CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
susan		We may be having a bit of technical difficulty...
console operator		Feed's good, Jack.
jack		Come on, Bruce, talk damn-it... Okay, get ready to pull the plug. INT. SMALL WONDERS CARE - DAY GRACE Please baby, say something...
grace		Thank you, God.
jack		Did I just hear..? BRUCE Well, I guess that's the way life works, isn't it? Some people are drenched, freezing to death, on a stupid boat, with a stupid umbrella...  while others who aren't fit to kiss my willy, are sitting in a nice, comfy news room, sucking up all the glory111
grace		This isn't happening. This isn't happening... EXT. NIAGARA FALLS - CONTINUOUS Bruce takes off walking, the camera follows. BRUCE Now, lets speak to the owner. Come on in here, Bill. Bill shakes his head "NO" as Bruce pulls him into frame. BRUCE Bill, you.'ve been running the Maid of the Mist for 23 years. Tell me, why do you think I didn't get the anchor job? BILL Hey, man, I don't want any-- BRUCE Do you think it's my hair?  Erroding. Erroooding. Errodiiiing... INT. NEWS ROOM - DAY All work has stopped. Stunned staffers stare at the monitor. INT. STUDIO CONTROL ROOM - CONTINUOUS Jack stands with his jaw dropped, snaps out of it. JACK Alright, cut the feed! Cut to black if you have to. CONTROL BOOTH OPERATOR I'm on it.
bruce		Oh, Perfect!  It's part of the mysterious plan. Grace puts Sam outside. Returns, trying to calm Bruce. GRACE Honey, you're mad right now. It's understandable. And what Evan did was slimy and wrong. But your job doesn't matter to me. You matter to me. You could've really been hurt. I'm just glad you're okay.
bruce		Okay? News flash: I'm not okayi And I'm not okay with the fact that you think everything is okay. I'm not okay with a mediocre job. I'm not okay with a mediocre apartment. I'm not okay with a mediocre LIFE! Bruce angrily swipes at the table knocking the photos and the photo albums to floor. GRACE Is that what you have, Bruce? A mediocre life? Well, I'm sorry for being a piece in your mediocre puzzle. BRUCE Terrific. I'm drowning and you throw me a brick! Grace starts to cry.
bruce		Perfect! I'll have the worst day of my life with a side order of guilt, please. I-- I don't need this. Bruce grabs his keys and heads out.
bruce		Oh well, I guess you don't care. Bruce spots the PRAYER BEADS hanging on the rearview mirror. BRUCE Okay, we'll do it your way.  Lord, I need a miracle. Please help me.
bruce		Well, hello again 772-5623, don't hold your breath. Bruce tosses the pager on the bed, heads for the bathroom. The beeper BEEPS. Bruce stops in his tracks, turns, opens the window, grabs the beeper and FIRES IT OUT. It SHATTERS against a telephone pole. He calmly continues to the bathroom. INT. BATHROOM  A note is stuck in the bathroom mirror, with an old picture of he and Grace in happier times. The note simply says: "I LOVE YOU.    WE NEED TO TALK. Grace"  Peering over top of the note, Bruce sees Sam circling on the rug. BRUCE Oh, no. EXT. STAIR WELL - CONTINUOUS Bruce runs down the stairs carrying the trickling, Sam. EXT. APARTMENT - DAY  Bruce sets Sam on the grass. Sam looks up, finished. BRUCE What's the point? BEEP, BEEP, BEEP...  Bruce walks over to the shattered beeper. He picks up a small piece of it containing the LED read out: 772-5623 ON BRUCE - AMAZED  CUT TO:  INT. BRUCE AND GRACE'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER  A PHONE - BRUCE DIALS THE NUMBER  A PRERECORDED VOICE ANSWERS 
computerized voice		Denied that promotion at work? Is life unfair? Everywhere you turn is there someone less talented than you reaping all the benefits ? Is your name Bruce? Then do we have the job for you. We're located at 77256 23rd Street... Bruce reaches for a pen, begins jotting down the address. COMPUTERIZED VOICE So come on down, or we'll just keep beepin' ya. EXT. WAREHOUSE - DAY An old building on the outskirts of town. A faded sign painted on the wall reads, OMNI PRESENTS. Bruce's demolished car enters frame.      He studies the area and building suspiciously. Bruce cautiously moves towards the structure and then, STEPS IN A PUDDLE. He SINKS UP TO HIS KNEE. BRUCE Perfect. He gets out, shakes off his sopping leg, and heads inside. INT. OMNI PRESENTS - DAY Bruce enters and checks the BUILDING DIRECTORY.      It reads: OMNI PRESENTS UNLTD.  Pers onnel    Rm. 7 Ac coun ting Rm. 7 Security      Rm . 7 Creativ e     Rm. 7 VOICE  You're looking for room 7. Bruce turns to see a JANITOR mopping the floor.     He looks at Bruce's wet leg, offers the mop. JANITOR Want me to even those up for you? 
bruce		 How would I get to room 7? JANITOR That'd be on the seventh floor. Stairs are right over there. BRUCE What about the elevator? He points to an elevator bank a couple of steps away. JANITOR Out of order. Bruce heads for the stairs. JANITOR You mind giving me a hand with this floor? BRUCE What? Yeah, I mind. He continues on.
bruce		Yep, seems to be.  Kinda bright, though.
janitor		Nothin' wrong with rollin' up your sleeves, son. People underestimate the benefits of good 'ol manual labor. There's freedom in it. Happiest people in the world stink like hell at the end of the day. He strolls down the room, takes a seat behind the big desk. JANITOR Your father knew that. He was a damn good welder. Bruce approaches the desk. BRUCE How do you know my father? And how did you get my pager number? JANITOR Oh, I know a lot about you Bruce. Pretty much everything there is to know. Everything you've ever said, done or thought about doin', is right there in that file cabinet. He points out a single drawer file cabinet. BRUCE 
bruce		AAAHHHl
bruce		No.  He races on.  INT. BRUCE'S CAR  Bruce jumps in, turns the key, the car turns over but doesn't start. BRUCE I'm having a breakdown. That's what it is. Just a normal, everyday psychotic episode, brought on by tumor or brain lesion... We hear the car wind down to nothing. Bruce releases the key pounds the steering wheel in frustration. BRUCE  If that was God, then I'm Mario Andretti. Instantly, Bruce's car PEELS OUT, races through traffic, dodging and passing cars right and left. BRUCE AAAHHHHHHHH!J! 
waitress		We've got a special on soup today.
bruce		No, that's okay. WAITRESS It's tomato. BRUCE Alright, okay. She heads off.    Bruce sits thinking.   Could it be real? He looks at the SUGAR down at the end of the table, holds out his hand and the SUGAR SLIDES ACROSS THE TABLE RIGHT INTO HIS HAND. The CREAMER slides into his other hand. Bruce is half scared, half thrilled. He pours some cream and sugar into his cup, looks around the table. BRUCE Excuse me I need a spoooo... Bruce chokes up a spoon into his hands, wipes it off with his napkin. BRUCE That's alright, I found one. The Old Man eyes Bruce suspiciously, gets up and moves further down the counter. The Waitress sets down the soup, heads off, then turns back. WAITRESS I lie to my sister. BRUCE What? WAITRESS  And I'm sleeping with my best friend's husband. I know he's just using me but.. I'm just so tired of being alone. I don't know why I'm telling you all this. Just seems like you'd understand. BRUCE Okay.
waitress		 Oh, this is a bit over your head, isn't it? Off Bruce's look. 
god		Okay, let me explain the rules. BRUCE Rules ? GOD Yeah, you left in such a rush I didn't get a chance to explain. BRUCE Well the two extra fingers freaked me out a little bit. GOD  Yes you can. That's the beauty it. Suddenly a LARGE SAILBOAT SAIL PASSES RIGHT BY THEM.   Bruce looks to the sail, oddly, then... WIDE ANGLE - REVEAL God and Bruce are now walking ON THE LAKE about 100 feet from the shore. They watch the sailboat pass. Bruce is awestruck. BRUCE This is amazing. GOD Oh, speaking of amazing... God dips his hand in the Lake and pulls out THE PRAYER BEADS. He pockets them as he talks. 
god		Since you're finished with these, I think I'll hang to 'em. Might come in handy someday. WIDE MASTER - BUFFALO CITY-SCAPE  God and Bruce are tiny figures on the river, as God begins to walk away. GOD I'll be seein' ya. BRUCE Where are you going? GOD I'm taking a vacation. BRUCE God can't take a vacation. Can he? Can you? GOD Ever hear of the Dark Ages? Besides, I'm covered. You can fix everything in five minutes if you want to, right? ON BRUCE BRUCE ...Right. Left alone, Bruce begins to carefully tip toe back to shore, progresses to a full sprint. INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY  Grace and Debbie stand at the check-out stand. Grace flips through a celeb magazine, as Debbie places the last few items from the cart to the conveyor belt. In the background, throughout, Debbie's daughter, Zoe is grabbing random items off the shelves and placing them on the belt. GRACE  Gosh, this girl is so talented and all they ever talk about is her hair. 
debbie		Yeah, she should marry somebody famous, take the focus off. Grace checks her cell phone screen. DEBBIE We would have heard it ring. GRACE I know. It's just that he usually calls during the day. DEBBIE He just needs to blow off some steam, he'll be fine. GRACE I hope so. I've never seen him                        * that mad. An d I lashed back--                        * DEBBIE Wow, you lashed? You never lash. I'm impressed. GRACE I feel bad for him.   He's wanted anchor for so long. Zoe begins pulling groups of items onto the belt. DEBBIE Well, I've been praying to win the lottery for fifteen years, but it's not going to happen. You know, it's not all about money. The CLERK finishes ringing the last item. CLERK That'll be four hundred and twenty- seven, eighty.- DEBBIE What?! Debbie looks in a bag, pulls out a handful of various counter items. Zoe giggles and proudly holds up one of the hundred or so Tic-Tac mint containers. DEBBIE Zoe.  Hey, everybody back-off i Zoe laughs, enjoying the commotion. GRACE Listen, I better get back. I want to be there for him. DEBBIE You're a saint, Grace. GRACE What can I say, I love him. And if I know Bruce, he's out there wandering around with the weight of the world on his shoulders.  CUT T0:  EXT. CITY STREETS - DUSK Bruce struts down the street the embodiment of confidence. He turns shooting a finger at a fire hydrant, it BLASTS WATER. KIDS run off their front steps, start playing. A PRETTY GIRL IN A DRESS, comes' walking toward him. As she passes he BLOWS A LITTLE AIR OUT OF THE CORNER OF HIS MOUTH and turns to watch her SKIRT FLY UP. BRUCE And he saw that it was good. He spots a    mannequin in a store window display, wearing a cool, casu   al outfit. He closes his eyes. When he opens them, HE'S   WEARING THE COOL NEW OUTFIT and the mannequin is dressed in   his clothes. He checks his reflection. . . better. Bruce rounds the corner, sees the SAME GANG that beat him up, hanging out in the alley. BRUCE B-e-a-utifull 
bruce		What if God was one of us. . . Just a slob like one of us... Just a stranger on a bus... Trying to make his way. . . Grace reacts a bit surprised by Bruce's happy tone, she gets up, opens the door and there stands BRUCE, beaming smile, holding a very unique BOUQUET OF FLOWERS. BRUCE  For you. Grace takes the flowers, gives Bruce a kiss, still sizing up his mood. GRACE These are amazing. What are they? BRUCE It's a totally new breed. A cross pollination between tulips and Daisies. I call them Todayzees. GRACE Todayzees? Okay... Grace goes to put them in water. INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS GRACE Bruce, is there something you're not telling me? 
bruce		Nothing of this world. Why? GRACE What do you mean, why? Last night you weren't exactly happy with life. BRUCE Last night, I was only human. Bruce backs out of the kitchen seductively. INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS Bruce breezes through, casually instructs the stereo as he passes. BRUCE CD 4, Track 7. The Stereo illuminates and Barry White music plays. EXT. BALCONY - CONTINUOUS Bruce opens the doors, steps onto the balcony. He surveys the cloudy sky, reaches up with his hand and ERASES THE CLOUDS, LIKE ON A CHALKBOARD. Still not completely satisfied he reaches up toward the moon and makes a LASSOING MOTION, THEN BEGINS TO PULL. CUT TO: OUTER SPACE - BEHIND THE MOON Earth far off in the distance - And with a THUNDEROUS RUMBLE the MOON starts MOVING CLOSER TO EARTH. BACK TO SCENE Bruce adds a finishing touch by adding several stars with points of his finger. Grace joins Bruce on the balcony and is taken aback by the perfectly orchestrated sky. GRACE Wow, it really cleared up. I've never seen the moon that big. Bruce puts his arms around Grace from behind. 
bruce		We shouldn't waste it. Bruce starts kissing her neck. Grace turns, .they kiss and a METEOR SHOWER lights the sky behind them. The kiss ends. BRUCE Bedroom. GRACE Five minutes. INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT  Grace grabs a neglige from the drawer, heads into the bathroom. Bruce enters, adjusts the ambience of the room, BLOWS THE LIGHTS OUT with a quick puff of air, LIGHTS CANDLES with a gesture. His clothes magically fall away. INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS  Grace slips her neglige on, begins brushing her hair. GRACE I'11 be out in a minute. BRUCE                                   * Oh, oh. Oh my...                                      * CUT TO:            * 
bruce		Standing at the door with both arms extended toward the bathroom like an WARLOCK CASTING A SPELL. Suddenly the light hits him from the open bathroom door and he quickly strikes a casual pose. Grace stands in the open doorway, panting like an animal. She dives on Bruce, attacking him. INT. KITCHEN - MORNING ON TV - THE MORNING NEWS MORNING REPORTER In international news, Japanese relief workers are staging a desperate effort to rescue hundreds of people stranded by a freak tidal wave that hit Kitamoto City... We see remote footage of Japanese families being airlifted from root tops. MORNING REPORTER Scientists say the tsunami may have been caused by what they're describing as "unusual lunar activity." More on this, as it develops. . . Grace half watches the newscast as she finishes breakfast. INT. BEDROOM - MORNING Bruce lies blissfully asleep. Big smile, life is good. Then, we hear WHISPERING - Like distant voices MURMURING all at once. Bruce wakes with a start. He looks around puzzled, sticks his finger in his ear checking his hearing as the voices fade away. ANGLE - SAM Circling, getting ready to go on the carpet. Bruce casually warns. BRUCE Sam. Uh uh uh. 
bruce		Good boy.
bruce		I don't know. My instinct tells me there's something more. PHIL Well, go with that. It's served you well in the past, right? Phil and a couple of his crew laugh, as they load the last of their equipment into the van and shut the doors.
policeman		We got a bodyI
phil		 Shit. Get the camera, now!
cameraman		It's locked and the keys are inside I Bruce casually turns his camera on, gives Phil a "tough break" look, heads for the scene, as Phil and his crew scramble around the van. CUT TO: ON A TV
dan rather		The body of Jimmy Hoffa was uncovered in a field today outside of a canine training center in Buffalo New York. Local Buffalo freelance field reporter Bruce Nolan was the first on the scene...
bruce		 I hear Jack wants to see you. BRUCE That's the word. BOBBY You're going to need your energy in there. Can I interest you in a donut? BRUCE No, thank you, I'm not hungry. BOBBY Coffee? BRUCE No. BOBBY Fiber grain bar with bee pollen and Spiralina? BRUCE I'm really not interested.
bobby		Yeah, I don't blame 'ya, they taste like grass. Bobby CUTS BRUCE OFF WITH HIS CART.    Bruce is forced to stop.
bobby		Tell you    what? I wasn't going to break it    open until lunch time, but I made a    batch of rhubarb that you have got    to try. BRUCE Bobby, I-- BOBBY Come on, it's my mother's recipe she's practically cripple... Bobby forces a ladle of rhubarb out at Bruce. BRUCE No, I really- no... BOBBY Open up, that's it, here comes the news chopper...  Damn you... Bruce continues    off, as Bobby stops cold, adopts an odd expression, then    his EYES ROLL UP IN THEIR SOCKETS, SPIN ALL THE WAR AROUND,    THEN GLOW RED. LITTLE HORN BUMPS PUSH UP FROM HIS SKULL.     He turns instantly demonic.
jack		Yeah, I gotcha. It feels good to get that out. Thank you. Jack gives Bruce a big hug. JACK Look,    it's not in my power to give you a   nchor, but as far as field repor   ting goes, if you're looking for a    bump. BRUCE Jack, don't worry about that. Just give me a camera and a crew and I'll give you the news. Bruce exits.    Jack likes the new Bruce. INT. NEWSROOM Bruce heads out as The Eyewitness News opening plays on several monitors. Susan Ortega opens. SUSAN Good evening and welcome to Eyewitness News at six. I'm Susan Ortega. EVAN And I'm Evan Baxter. And here's what's making news... This stops Bruc e. He watc hes Evan on a newsr oom monit or. A devilish smile forms on Bruce's face. EVAN A potential scandal with the Buffalo P.D. surfaced today when... Evan's voice suddenly becomes HIGH PITCHED, like a girls. EVAN  ...Uh-hum, that the Chief of Police... Evan tries to clear his throat again, but his voice remains HIGH PITCHED.  64,
jack		What the hell is that? Evan is starting to visibly sweat. EVAN  I'm sorry. There seems to be something. Evan shoots Susan a look to cover for him.        Susan tries to cover with a joke. SUSAN Looks like my new co-anchor may need a glass of water. She laughs, Evan laughs in a RIDICULOUS HIGH PITCHED GIRLY L AU GH tha t m ak es it ev en w or se . H e s ip s th e w at er a nd hi s /" "" N VJ         voice      returns. EVAN Ah, there we go. Sorry about that. The Prime Minister of Sweden visited Washington today as my little tiny nipples moved to France- Evan stops cold, staring at the teleprompter. INT. TV STUDIO - CONTINUOUS The Director in the booth reacts. DIRECTOR What did he just say? Check the prompter. The Console Operator checks the text being fed to Evan. CONSOLE OPERATOR It's fine. DIRECTOR Well, signal for him to keep going.
evan		The White House reception committee greeted the Prime Rib Roast Minister and I do the cha cha like a sissy girl...  I mean, I'm not really qualified. Evan's hair IGNITES.
susan		His hair's on fire! Dallas runs off.
bruce		 You know, he does have a certain pizazz about him.
bruce		This is a very unfortunate turn of events. I'm heading toward the earth at a very precarious speed... The cameraman pops his shoot and we see Bruce continue to stream toward the ground below. He falls into a wooded area. A CAMERA ON THE GROUND picks up the coverage, runs through the brush with other BYSTANDERS to find Bruce laying on top of a BIG, HAIRY CREATURE. BYSTANDERS  Oh, honey, would you hand me the scissors? Bruce diverts his attention, when the Sabers screw up and the crowd GROANS. Bruce immediately turns, looks intently at the puck and GOAL, SABERS! THE CROWD ROARS! INT. BRUCE AND GRACE'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - MORNING  CLOSE ON - BRA CLASP  Grace's BOOBS ARE EVEN BIGGER. Bruce is trying to help her fasten her bra, but it's a good three inches from touching. Bruce shrugs "got me." 
newscaster		His stories are all over town... NEWSCASTER #2 ...from unearthing Jimmy Hoffa... NEWSCASTER #3 ...to an asteroid crashing to earth. Bruce Nolan is rapidly becoming known as. . . EXT. BUFFALO - DAY A BILLBOARD being put up with a big smiling Bruce with arms extended. It reads: "Mr. Exclusive". INT. HOCKEY ARENA - NIGHT                                       * A close up of Bruce on the Jumbotron.                           * ANNOUNCER                                  * Ladies and Gentlemen,    please                       * welcome Mr. Exlusive,    Bu ffal o's                  * own, Bruce Nolan.                                     * Bruce starts SINGING THE MOST AMAZING GOSPEL SINGER/JAZZ            * VERSION OF THE NATIONAL ANTHEM ANYONE HAS EVER HEARD.           * BRUCE                                      * Oh, say can you                                       * seeeEEEEeeeeeEEEEeeeee...                             *
grace		Afraid so. Debbie eyes Margarita. GRACE  Careful, you missed a spot of free flowing circulation. Margarita senses the attitude and pulls tighter. Debbie reacts. 
debbie		That'd do it. Margarita motions for Debbie to lay down and leaves.    Debbie struggles to lay down. DEBBIE Let's see, how do I-- Debbie slides to the ground, Grace cracks up, gets up to help, but also in mummy wrap, topples on top of her. They both laugh and struggling to get up. Hearing the ruckus, Margarita enters and gasps. MARGARITA Lesbianas1 Grace and Debbie crack up harder. DEBBIE Hey, I'll take that over fat... Margarita tries to pull them up, but falls too. MARGARITA No sexo, no sexol Grace and Debbie can't stop laughing. INT. CHEZ L'AMOUR - NIGHT A waiter pours the first trickle of wine into Bruce's glass. Bruce whiffs it, tastes it. BRUCE Very good. If you run out just bring me some water, I'll take it from there. Grace looks over the menu as Bruce notices people at various tables eyeing him. He glances up to a ceiling light and REDIRECTS IT with his mind, so it SPOTLIGHTS HIM in golden light. TWO CUTE GIRLS with dates SMILE and wave.     He waves back. GRACE Should we ask for a more private table?  73,
bruce		Huh? Oh, no this is fine right here. Bruce looks at Grace lovingly.      He takes her hand. BRUCE I was going to wait until after the meal, but I think it's going to just bust out of me if I don't do it now. Grace beams, looks at Bruce with total love. BRUCE You ready? GRACE  What's the matter? GRACE Well, to be honest, I thought that maybe tonight, you-- The TWO CUTE GIRLS interrupt, approach Bruce. 
bruce		Geez...  Really something isn't it? God sits down next to Bruce. BRUCE Is this heaven? God laughs at this one. GOD It's Everest. You should try flipping on the Discovery Channel every now and then. Well, I guess you can't now, being dead and all. BRUCE I'm dead?I God laughs. 
god		No, I'm just messing with you. BRUCE Those voices... GOD They're prayers, Bruce. You keep ignoring them and they're going to build up on. you like that. You didn't think being God was going to be all fun and games did you? BRUCE Prayers? Those are prayers? Why can't I understand them? God forms a snowball in his hands as he talks. GOD You aren't listening, son. Let's see, you've had my powers for over a week now and how many people have you helped? BRUCE Okay, so maybe I've righted a couple of the wrongs in my own life. I was going to get around to others. I can do both. I can help the world. GOD The world? That wasn't the world, Bruce. That was just Buffalo, between Commonwealth and 57th. Didn't want to start you out with more than you can handle. Now how you doing otherwise? Personal life in good shape? BRUCE Yeah. Everything is great. A DOORWAY OPENS like a crack in space. Grace steps out, sees Bruce. GRACE Bruce? What are you doing out here? With that, the terrain TRANSFORMS back into the alley where Grace has been standing all along. She can not see .God.  77,
bruce		Oh, ah,  Look hun, I want to talk about this. This just isn't a good time. Okay? 
grace		When is it a good time? It's never a good time. GOD She's got a point. BRUCE  Stay out of this. Grace looks at him like he's nuts. *
grace		Who are you talking to?! Just then, the WHISPERS start in again.        Bruce reacts. BRUCE Oh, not now. Bruce puts his hands to his ears.       Grace takes this as him not wanting to listen to her. GOD You're going to have to answer those things, y'know. GRACE Fin e. Yo u kn ow wh at? I 'm go in g t o go home and if by some miracle it                          * suddenly becomes a 'good time', you                        * know where to find me.                                     *  Thank you. GOD You want some friendly advice? BRUCE No. God smiles.
god		You wanted the job, Bruce.     I                        * suggest you get to it.                                  * INT. BRUCE AND GRACE'S APARTMENT - DAY                            *  Grace is asleep in the bedroom while Bruce paces in the           * living room.                                                      * BRUCE                                         * Okay...Prayers.                                         * He concentrates for a second and in an instant, the WHISPERS      * start in. BRUCE Okay, first off, this creepy whisper thing has got to go.                                          * Ah!                                                     * CUT TO:              *  Bruce sits before a High Tech computer sitting on a    desktop.   * We HEAR the famous "You've Got Mail" sound bite.                  * 
bruce		Welcome to the information super highway. No mess, full bless. A COMPUTER PROGRESS BAR titled "Downloading Prayers" appears on screen, there's a long, long way to go. Bruce watches and waits, bored - looks at his watch.               * DISSOLVE TO:          * BRUCE - MORNING                                                    *  He's fallen asleep by the computer. As he wakes he sees:           * "1,567,432 unread messages"                                        * BRUCE                                       * Whoa.                                                    * Suddenly, Grace bounds out of the bathroom.                        * GRACE Okay, this is getting ridiculous I Grace's boobs are enormous! A healthy D-cup. GRACE I have to see a doctor. There's definitely something wrong with me. * Bruce jumps up from the computer, hides what he's doing... BRUCE No.     You look great. GRACE I look like a hooker I My whole body is changing. She turns profile, her back sways causing her ass to stick out. GRACE My back didn't used to arch like this. Bruce gets up, walks to Grace. BRUCE I think you look amazing.                                * 
grace		Bruce, I feel like our relationship is becoming all about sex. BRUCE No it's not. Come on, give me a * hug. GRACE No, Bruce. Come on.                                   * She breaks away and sees the computer is on.                    * GRACE                                     * What's that? What are you doing?                     * Bruce tries to cover.                                           * BRUCE                                      * Oh, ah. Nothing. Surfing the                          * * internet...for stories... GRACE                                      * Is this why you didn't come to bed?                   * BRUCE                                      * No, ah...Honey, you're going to be                    * late. GRACE No, I'm not. Bruce looks over Grace's shoulder and ADJUSTS THE CLOCK FORTY MINUTES FORWARD. Grace turns and is surprised. GRACE Oh my goshI How did I sleep this late? I've got to run. Are you giving me a ride? BRUCE Don't need to. Bruce motions to the window. Grace walks over, looks out and s es . . e. A NEW SPORTY RED CONVERTIBLE wrapped in a WHITE BOW. BRUCE Happy two months and four days before your birthday. 
grace		 And your goalie has turrets. Bruce smiles, this is fun. MUSIC UP: MIC JAGGER "GOD GIVE ME EVERYTHING I WANT" MONTAGE - BRUCE ANSWERS PRAYERS CLOSE ON COMPUTER SCREEN Emails scroll, stop at: Filbert Davidson RE: GYM CLASS 
martin		Gracias, dios.  He shovels a scoop of paste in his mouth. CLOSE ON: COMPUTER KEYBOARD Bruce's hands typing responses. His fingers move faster and faster. FRAGMENT MONTAGE OF OVERLAPPING IMAGERY - TEXT AND VISUALS: "I want to be bigger" text and dissolve to a young man growing six inches. He smiles wide -- Close up computer text snippets dissolve over one another: "Please help my stock go up" "..my stock..." "...make a killing in the market..." Then another "I want to be bigger" this time dissolve to a grown man, peeks down his pants, smiles wide --
jack's pov		Bobby's demon-looking head, slowly ROTATES 360 DEGREES ON HIS NECK. JACK  Really? 
grace		What? BRUCE  This is our new home.    Come on... Bruce pulls Grace up the stairs. GRACE This had to cost-- I can't even imagine how much this had to cost. BRUCE 7 million. That was the asking, but I got a deal. GRACE Wh-What am I missing here? You can't afford this. You're a reporter. Buying cars is one t hing, but this-- Bruce grabs a hold of Grace. BRUCE We'll have the money. Listen to me closely. I'm getting anchor. Then, I'm going to get spotted, offers will come flooding in to go national, and then you and I are moving to New York City to a place that will put this to shame. This has been my exact dream my whole life and it's finally going to happen. Every step just how I pictured it.  Grace just stares at Bruce. GRACE There's only one problem. BRUCE What? GRACE I hate it. Bruce is surprised. 
grace		What were you thinking? Why didn't              * you talk to me about this?                      * BRUCE                                 * I wanted to surprise you.                       * GRACE                                 * Mission accomplished.                           * BRUCE Honestly, I thought you'd be a little more appreciative. GRACE Appreciative of what? The fact that you didn't include me on a major life decision or that we now live in the Sultan of Bernai's                  * house?                                          * BRUCE  Like pearls to swine. GRACE What is that supposed to mean? BRUCE Let those with ears hear. GRACE What is happening to you? You're changing.
bruce		Exa ct ly. F or th e bet te r. I' m not poor and s truggling . And mayb e that threatens you. I'm telling you, there are plenty of women who would love this place. GRACE Yeah, and so would their pimps.                 * BRUCE                                * I can't believe this. I did all                 * this for us.                                    * GRACE                               * Us ? W hat us? Yo u a lwa ys said wh en         * your career takes off we'd get                  * married. What happened to that us?              *
bruce		I want that. GRACE                                       * 'That'. You can't even say the                       * word.                                                 * BRUCE                                      * Marriage, I want marriage, okay.                      * It's just not a great time right now. GRACE Not a great time. What is that, your mantra? This is never going to change. . . Grace heads down the stairs.                                    * BRUCE Come on Grace, lighten up.                            .* Tomorrow's Saturday. The office is                    * throwing me a party here, for getting anchor. Let's enjoy the ride for a whi le. We're just starting to have some fun. GRACE No, you're just starting to have fun. Suddenly, the TOILET FLUSHES off camera. Grace sees Sam in the bathroom spraying some deodorizer before he exits. GRACE And what in God's name is going on with that dogI? Grace pulls her cell phone .out of her purse, heads for the door. GRACE I'm going to have Debbie pick me up. BRUCE Grace. GRACE I'm sorry, but    I won't be attending your little pa   rty tomorrow. And if                 * you would like    to see me after I will be at our   home.                                * 
french waiter		Ah, Mr. Nolan, we're running out of hors doerves. I'm afraid we under- ordered, sir. And the people are hungry. BRUCE What do you have left? The Waiter holds up a small basket. FRENCH WAITER Only three chips and two shrimp. BRUCE  Just take it around. The Waiter gets a confused look. CUT TO: CHIPS OVERFLOWING, SHRIMP SPILLING OUT OF BASKETS, HANDS REACHING GLUTTONOUSLY FOR THE BOUNTY.
crowd		Speech!   Speech!!   Speech!
bruce		And now let me tell you a story. There was a man who had two sons. The younger son took his inheritance and squandered his money on a life of lust and debauchery. I LOVE THAT GUY!!
susan		Yeah, I didn't see her in there. I love the new place, by the way. So how are you and Grace doing? BRUCE I don't know, we had a fight earlier. Ever since I . . Well, things are different now and...
susan		You're on fire Bruce. Some women can't handle fire. Some can. Susan smooths close to Bruce. SUSAN You know, I always had an instinct about you. I knew you were going to make something of yourself. BRUCE Really? SUSAN There's something special about you Bruce. I like special... BRUCE Look Susan, I don't know, I-- Susan grabs Bruce, kisses him passionately. Bruce doesn't join in, but doesn't fight it either. ANGLE - THE FRONT DOOR
debbie		So this is your new place, huh? GRACE Cozy, don't you think? Come on help me find him. They head into the room. DEBBIE You sure you want to do this? GRACE I don't know. It's his big night.                      * I don't want to spoil it. I know                  .    * how much this means to him.                            * DEBBIE                                      * * So much for lashing back... Grace stops dead in her tracks. Her face drops. GRACE'S POV - BRUCE, still lip-locked with Susan Ortega.
debbie		Oh, boy.
bruce		Grace, wait. Grace follows Debbie out. EXT. UPSCALE HOME - NIGHT Bruce follows Grace outside. BRUCE Grace, come on. Grace stops, opens her purse, tosses the keys to her new car in Bruce's chest. GRACE Here. I do n't w ant your car. I don't want your things. . . I don't want you. BRUCE Come on, don't say that. I was just calling y ou-- GRACE And you thought Susan's mouth was the phone? BRUCE I didn't think you were coming-- I mean, I . . . I screwed up, okay. Let me make it up to you. GRACE How about a boat, Bruce?
bruce		If that's what you want.
grace		Yeah, a big boat and oh, maybe two bags of cash, you know, the ones with the big cartoon dollar signs on the front. Then I'll be happy. Because I'm just hollow inside. Debbie's been right. All this time. I defended you, told her there was good in you. Another side to you. Well, I just saw that other side and I don't want anything to do with it. Debbie pulls up, Grace storms off to the car. Bruce follows, BRUCE Grace, come on, don't do this. GRACE Go back to your little co-anchor. Or is that ho-anchor?  I have EVERYTHING! 
grace		Hi.. BRUCE I, ah, have my first anchor tonight. GRACE That's great. I hope it goes well for you. He's hit in the head by a ball.    Grace can't help but smiles Bruce leaps at the opportunity. BRUCE I miss you.  Would it help if I told you I acted like an ass? Martin is standing nearby. MARTIN Hey, you said ass. BRUCE It's okay as long as you mean a donkey. I didn't add "hole." It's only bad when you say "ass-ho-- 
grace		Alright, inside, Martin.  drive off with it. 
bruce		Hey11   That's my car!! INT. BRUCE'S CAR - CONTINUOUS The PRISONERS drive off laughing. PRISONER #1 Ha, nice wheels, huh? BRUCE sits up in the back seat. BRUCE Thou shalt not steal. The prisoners JUMP. BRUCE Car, show them the way out. Instantly, the car doors fly open and the seats tilt sideways dumping the prisoners. BRUCE What is wrong with the world? INT. EYEWITNESS NEWS STATION - TV STUDIO ON A TV MONITOR NEWS ANCHOR #1 The Dow skyrocketed again today and with a new influx of paper millionaires, analysts are warning of a potential run on banks... We see a stock graph superimposed on the screen with a ludicrous jump straight up off the charts. CHANNEL CHANGES TO: NEWSANCHOR #2 The scene nearly turned violent when hundreds of disgruntled Buffalo residents protested the results of lasts weeks fluke lottery results... CHANNEL CHANGES TO: 
susan		We apologize for the interruption, and now back to the news. Bruce. . . BRUCE Thank you, Susan-- Susan gets a feed in her earpiece.
susan		I'm sorry, we're going live to Rupp arena where the Buffalo Sabers have won the Stanley cup. Fred... Bruce is noticeably bothered. CUT TO:  INT. SABERS LOCKEROOM.  Fred is with the coach. The team is celebrating, champagne rains down. FRED Thank's Susan. I'm here with coach Tucker who has lead the Sabers to their first championship in 22 years... ON BRUCE'S mounting frustration. He gives a look. FRED Tell me coach... Fred's face registers A PAINED LOOK. He tries to keep it together. A beat of silence... FRED '  I have to use the restroom. He drops the mic and runs out. Off the coach's puzzled look... INT. NEWS STATION JACK What the hell? Bruce covers. BRUCE We'll get back to the Saber victory in just a moment. In other news-- Again, STATIC... Jack tosses his headset. JACK Oh, for the love of Godl What is it now? The Stage Manager again listens to his wire. 
stage manager		The whole booth is down. CRASH! A BRICK flies through a front window.       Bruce turns to see... EXT. DOWNTOWN - NIGHT
bruce		Where are the other officers?
police office		What other    officers? Half the force just    retired. Said their "ship came    in." You better get home pal. I   t's dangerous out here. The Officer heads out. Bruce stands, then quickly DUCKS, as a bottle is tossed through a window that has a lotto sticker on it.
bruce		Hear, O' Buffalo, you have awakened my wrath. Vengeance is mine! A BOLT OF LIGHTENING shoots right into the middle of the rioters, scattering them. People flee in every direction as THUNDER CRASHES and lightning bolts continue to strike. Bruce stands alone in the street, surveys the smoldering mayhem, then reaches into his pocket and pulls out the key God gave him. He grips it tightly and... INT. OMNI PRESENTS - NIGHT                                       *
god		See Bruce, that's your problem. That's everybody's problem. You keep looking up. . . He smiles and disappears into the light, leaves Bruce thinking. INT. BRUCE AND GRACE'S APARTMENT - DAY Bruce stands in the apartment, Sam at his side. No signs of Grace. The bed is made. Empty. Then, he notices the BOX OF PHOTOS, the incomplete albums. He picks up a photo of he and Grace in an even tinier apartment, Sam is a puppy, they have little money, and despite it all look very happy. Bruce smiles at the memory. Reaches for a stack of photos... EXT. CITY STREETS - MORNING Bruce sits in bumper to bumper traffic. A man's car is broken down in the middle of the street causing the bottleneck. Bruce sees THE SIGN GUY by the side of the road.   His sign reads: ALL FOR WON. Bruce looks out at the other drivers honking and shouting at the frustrated man. CUT TO - the stalled car is now rolling to the shoulder and we REVEAL that Bruce is doing the pushing. INT. BRUCE AND GRACE'S APARTMENT THE COMPUTER The auto-function is answering "YES" to the prayer emails. Bruce clicks cancel, turns off the computer. INT. SCHOOL YARD Filbert Davis is beating up another kid. Bruce watches at a. distance. BRUCE Bruce giveth and Bruce taketh away. Suddenly, Filbert goes to throw a punch but his punch has no sting. The bigger boy looks down and grins. CLOSE ON FILBERT - SUDDEN FEAR IN HIS EYES
bruce		Come on, Sam. Let's do this the right way... Oh, alright... Bruce pulls out a SWATCH OF CARPET, lays it on the grass. Sam happily goes. They walk off together. BRUCE That's not normal you know. INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY Bobby places three blue home address number tiles on the counter - all number 6. BOBBY  Do you have these in red? Bruce walks up behind Bobby. BRUCE Okay Bobby, it's time to come back. Bobby HISSES at Bruce, turns INSANELY DEMONIC.
bobby		LEAVE ME HOLY MAN OR I WILL FEED ON YOUR SOUL!It
bruce		 Un-damn you, Bobby. Bobby instantly transforms to normal.
bobby		Hey thanks, Bruce.  Biscotti? INT. NEWSROOM - DAY Evan is packing his things at his desk, still looking much worse for the wear. Bruce walks up to him. EVAN You're probably here to gloat over the anchor position. Go ahead, I'm sure I deserve it. BRUCE You know, Evan.    I've been a real prick. Evan stops, looks up at Bruce, confused. BRUCE You were born to anchor. I'm not taking the position. Oh, and I never really congratulated you on getting the job in the first place. Congratulations, Evan. Bruce offers his hand, Evan takes it. When their hands meet, there is a kind of ELECTRICAL CHARGE that passes between them. Bruce walks off, Evan is confused when he catches his reflection in the mirror. HE'S BACK TO NORMAL! INT. JACK'S OFFICE - LATER ON TV  Evan is manning the anchor desk and looking good doing it. Jack is relieved. EVAN BAXTER In the financial world, things are settling back to normal in what analysts are calling a fluke market fluctuation... Bruce enters. BRUCE You made the right choice, Jack. 
jack		So what about you? What will you do? BRUCE With your permission, I think I'll go out there and make the people laugh. To quote a friend, "God knows we could use it." Jack smiles. JACK Permission granted. Bruce turns to go, then turns back. BRUCE Oh, are you hungry? I know a place that makes a mean tomato soup. EXT. STREET - NIGHT Bruce walks along side Jack. Jack talks and talks, happy to have the company. Bruce opens a door for Jack, leading to.. INT. DINER Bruce and Jack take a seat at the counter. WAITRESS  Hi.                                   Hi. EXT. EYEWITNESS NEWS STATION - DAY ON THE HOMELESS SIGN GUY His sign reads: "GOD BEE GOOD HONEY" 
god		Sorry, go. BRUCE If I could have just one thing in the world. It would be for Grace to live a happy, joyful life. And that she finds someone...  We almost lost you there. WIDER ANGLE - The WHITE ROOM is a HOSPITAL ROOM - Bruce is heavily bruised and bandaged. DOCTOR #1 You lost a lot of blood. It wasn't easy to find a match - you're a very rare blood type. 
bruce		 You should thank God for donors. We don't have a lot of that type on hand. NURSE There's your angel now. Bruce turns toward the hospital door and sees... GRACE
bruce		In honor of this event, the Kowolski brothers have baked a one- of-a-kind, creation. The brothers proudly unveil the special cookie and we see that it's a HUGE SYRINGE SHAPED CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE. BRUCE Sure, a little creepy and a shameless plug, but we love 'em.  Mmm, good needle. Remember, that's Kowolski's bakery. The bakery that gets more air time than a high speed chase. Everyone laughs.   The Kowolski brothers beam. Bruce takes a seat as a VOLUNTEER NURSE pulls up his sleeve, revealing the prayer beads worn around his wrist. She ties off his arm, starts to probe for a vein.
bruce		To be honest, I've never been a big fan of shots. . . The volunteer now is swabbing Bruce's arm and Bruce is starting to sweat. BRUCE  Okay, we're good to go...They just stick it into my arm. Breaking through the skin, of course... The volunteer pulls out the needle and Bruce PASSES OUT COLD. Gasps, the Nurse leans close, total silence, then: BRUCE BLLLAAAA!
bruce		Had you going, didn't IIIIII1
bruce		No, this is nothing. In fact, this is the second time I've given blood this week. For those of you who haven't heard, I ' d like you to meet the soon to be Mrs. Exclusive. He throws a look to Grace who smiles in return.    The crowd applauds. BRUCE This is Bruce Nolan reporting for Eyewitness News. The camera cuts.   Bruce lowers his mic, turns to Grace. BRUCE So, what'd you think? GRACE                                      * I don't know, I thought it was very                   * pleasurable.                                          * Bruce smiles, they kiss... As the blood drive continues, we push through the crowd, heading somewhere. Bodies clear frame and we see the HOMELESS MAN sitting on a park bench. His sign reads: THEE END The Homeless Man smiles into camera. We continue forward and in a slow, mysterious, subtle fashion his face slowly transforms into the very pleased, FACE OF GOD, who winks and w. . . e CUT TO BLACK: ROLL CREDITS BRUCE ASKS GOD 20 QUESTIONS
****Dialogues from script :Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer.txt****

knight		A tankard of ale, wench.
knight		 Some plague we're having, huh?
knight		Oh, my god...
amilyn		 ... All fall down
lothos		You must forgive Amilyn.  He tends to drool before supper.
slayer		Lothos...
lothos		You people will never learn.
lothos		 We can't be stopped.  This is our world now.
girl		I can't!
man		You know you must.  There is only one.  Now you are that one.  It is time.
girl		Why?  Why me?
man		She has died.  You are the next to be called.  Why do you think you were sent to me?  Trained as you were?  You bear the mark.
man		 The mark of the Coven.
girl		I don't understand.
man		Ever since Adam and Eve first left the garden, he followed: the serpent. Satan.  He sends his legion in the shape of men, to feed on us, to breed his Hell on our earth.  They are a plague upon us.
man		 But as long as there have been vampire, there has been the Coven; the line of Slayers.  Ones with the strength and the skill to kill them, to find them where they gather and stop the swell of their numbers. One dies, the next is called.
girl		I'm just a girl.
man		You are much more.
man		 One dies, the next is called...
coach		Come on, do the play!  The one where...  the one from the book! Where you make it go forward!
andy		All right, guys, come on!
andy		 Grueller!  Fill that hole!  They were all over me!  Okay.  Let's run twenty-two.  Grueller, close the pocket, watch out for thirty-five. Thompson, run the post, right, wide out.  Jeffrey, go up the middle and run around like a chicken.
coach		 Is that good?  Was that a good thing?
buffy		Mr. Howard is so heinous.  He's always giving me a hard time.  I get a C-plus on the test and he tells me, 'You have no sense of history.'  I have no sense of history?  He wears a brown tie.
nicole		You got a C-plus?  I can't believe I cheated off you.
buffy		Excuse me for not knowing about El Salvador.  Like I'm ever going to Spain anyway.  Ooh!
buffy		 Mmmm.  Wouldn't I look just edible and nutritious in this?
kimberly		Guys, what's the sitch?  I'm bored.
buffy		 What do you think?
girl		Oh.
kimberly		What are we doing?
buffy		Why don't we see a movie?
kimberly		Well, where?
jennifer		Omniplex?
nicole		Nee sitch.  No way.
buffy		No THX.
nicole		They don't even have Dolby.
kimberly		Beverly Center.
buffy		Please.  They show previews for foreign movies.
nicole		AMC?
kimberly		Totally stale.  And the ushers are like, the acne patrol.  We're thinking Pavilion.  Sitch?
buffy		Sounds toasty.  We're going Pavilion.
jennifer		Excellent.
buffy		What's playing there?
buffy		 Excuse much!  Not rude or anything.
kimberly		 Nice ensemble!
nicole		What a homeless.
nicole		 So, is Jeffrey really spending the night at your house?
buffy		That's the plan.
nicole		Good enough!
jennifer		Your parents are always going away for the weekend.  You're so lucky.
buffy		 Yeah, I guess.
jennifer		My mom doesn't go anywhere.  She even does the shopping network. I'm gonna die a virgin.
kimberly		What did Jeffrey's dad say?
buffy		'Just remember you're in training, son'
nicole		Oh, God.
kimberly		He is so bald.
pike		Will you guys shut up, please?
buffy		It could happen.
pike		Booo!
benny		Suck!
pike		Wrong answer!  No prize.
nicole		God!  Take a chill lozenge.
kimberly		Like we don't have rights too?
buffy		Ignore them.
benny		I can't believe these people.  We paid money to see this.
pike		No, we didn't.
benny		Oh, yeah.  But I still want to know what happens.
buffy		Everyone get horribly killed except the blonde girl in the nightie, who finally kills the monster with a machete but it's not really dead.
jennifer		Oh, my God.  Is that true?
buffy		Probably.  What movie is this?
grueller		Look at that moon!  It's huge! Come on, guys, we gotta do something tonight.  Party.
andy		You know, if you would spend more time at home sleeping, you would spend less time on the field, sucking.
jeffrey		You were a bone out there today. Anyway, I'm booked.  Gonna spend some quality time with the little woman.
jeffrey		You guys are pathetic.
grueller		Later for you, then.  I'm blowing. Andy, you coming?
andy		No, I'll hitch a ride with Jeffrey.
grueller		Okay.  Later.
andy		Headbutt!
andy		 Later.
buffy		Nice game.
andy		Jeffrey, I don't mean to sound sexist or anything, but can I borrow her?
buffy		Andy!
jeffrey		No way.  You'd get her dirty.  He would, honey.  He's an animal.
grueller		Yo!  Who is that?  Don't mess with me man, I'll rip your head off.
grueller		 Come on, come out here.  Let's see what you got.
grueller		 Forget this.
grueller		 Bessel!  What are you doing here?
wally		Hi, Grueller.
grueller		What are you grinning at?  You think I was scared?
wally		Could be.
grueller		You think so?
wally		Could be.
grueller		Listen, you little worm.  I could beat your head to a pulp for you, just like I did last year, you got that?  You got that?
wally		 Got that.
grueller		Good.
grueller		 What the...
andy		It's um... you had to be there.
jeffrey		You okay?
buffy		I... yeah, I'm okay.  I'm fine.
newscaster		-- The fourth such disappearance in less than two months.  The sheriff was not available for comment, but a police spokesman issued a statement, saying that the situation is not out of hand...
buffy's dad		We're gonna be late.  I knew it.
buffy's mom		 Now, we'll be back on Sunday, number's on the fridge, don't drive the Jaguar and tell Consuela my underwear does not go in the dishwasher.
buffy's dad		Have fun be good stay away from the Jag.
buffy		I know.
buffy's mom		Well, that's everything.  Kiss noise.
buffy		'Bye.
buffy's mom		 Bye-bye, Bobby!
jeffrey		Bye!  They think my name's Bobby?
buffy		Well... it's possible they think my name's Bobby.
jeffrey		Real 'quality-timers,' Hugh.
buffy		Something like that.
jeffrey		Hey, it works for me.  If they want to leave you alone in the house, all helpless and vulnerable...
buffy		What show is this?
jeffrey		It's the news, Buffy.
buffy		Oh.  Who's in it?  I know what it is.  It's what's on instead of the movie.
jeffrey		I just want to see the basketball scores.  It's important.
buffy		 Mmmnkay.
jeffrey		Of course, there are... other considerations...
sailor		You never touched my heart.
lothos		Soon.
jeffrey		Buffy!  Hey, what's the sitch?!? Wake up!
buffy		Oh, wow.  Oh, wow.  Oh, wow.
jeffrey		You were having a nightmare.
jeffrey		 What'd you dream about?
buffy		Nothing.
jeffrey		Come on, what was it?
buffy		Nothing.  It was just a dream.
amilyn		You have brought us here, and we thrive.  We thrive.  You will awake in a new world.  Just as I promised, untold splendor, rubies dripping from our lips.  Just as we said.
amilyn		 Soon...
buffy		The environment.
nicole		The homelesses?
kimberly		Oh, please.
jennifer		Are there any good sicknesses that aren't too depressing?
buffy		Guys.  The environment.  I'm telling you, it's totally key.  The earth is in terrible shape, we could al die, and besides, Sting's doing it.
kimberly		I thought he was doing Indians.
jeffrey		Hey there.
buffy		Hi.
jennifer		 Hi, Jeffrey.
andy		Whatchya guys doing?
nicole		The winter dance.  We need to come up with a theme.
jeffrey		The senior dance?  How about... 'Our Friend, the Beer?'
andy		'Putting Out for Fun and Profit'... possible thought...
kimberly		Try new Clue-flakes.
buffy		It has to be, like a socially conscious theme.
cassandra		 'One that reflects the students' growing awareness of and involvement in the world around them.'
buffy		I still say the environment.  That's my suggestion.
cassandra		It is a pretty crucial subject.
buffy		See, Cassandra likes it.  Cassandra's my friend.
andy		I like it.  Can I be your friend?
jeffrey		Stay away from my thang.  Sorry, honey.  'Thing.'
nicole		Environment.  That's cool with me.
kimberly		Okay.
cassandra		So, what are the most immediate threats to the world environment right now?
jeffrey		Well, um... litter?
andy		Litter, yeah!
jeffrey		 Write that down.
jennifer		Okay, what else?
nicole		Forest fires?
andy		Communism?
buffy		Bugs.
cassandra		 Okay, guys, how about the ozone layer?
kimberly		Oh, yeah!
nicole		Right!
buffy		We gotta get rid of that!  That's right.
gary murray		I don't suppose you kids heard the first bell, did you?  The first bell was saying, 'Start going to class, it's time to go to class.' In about thirty seconds the second bell is going to be saying, 'Already be in class.'
jeffrey		We're having a very important discussion here.
gary murray		Why do I have trouble believing you?
jeffrey		Something from your childhood, maybe?
gary murray		Button it, Kramer.  Classes are starting.  Be there or beware.
andy		Man has a complex.
buffy		He's got a...  What do you call it? A Napoleonic Code.
jennifer		It's 'cause he's so tiny.
andy		Yes, but what he lacks in height he makes up in shortness.
kimberly		Let's meet tonight, okay?
buffy		Where?
kimberly		Cafe Blase.
nicole		Cool.  We can figure decorations and stuff.
buffy		Cassandra, you gotta come, too.
cassandra		Can't.  History report.  The Normans and the Saxons.
buffy		Bogutude.  Blow it off.
cassandra		I really can't.  Besides, it's pretty interesting.
buffy		 You're weird and I'm afraid of you. Seriously, Cassandra, there's a lot cooler things you could be doing than your homework.
cassandra		Like what?
buffy		Like my homework.
kimberly		I don't see why we have to invite everyone.
buffy		Kimberly, it's the senior dance.
nicole		If we don't invite all the seniors we can't use the school funds, you know that.
kimberly		Can't they make exceptions?  Maryanne Heinel?  She's such a scud.  Can't we have a Maryanne clause?
nicole		Well, look who's here.
waitress		Hey!
benny		The Fifties are over.
pike		 We have to learn to let go.
waitress		Don't give me any trouble, okay?
pike		No trouble.  We just want to eat.
pike		 Come on, come on, fork up the scub.
benny		That's it, man.  That's the whole story.
pike		We're looking at a dog, possible coffee...
pike		 It's coffee.
benny		Amazing!
kimberly		 Smell of booze much.
nicole		Nice much.
pike		 Can we have a hot dog, please, medium rare, and a cup of joe?
buffy		You guys are thrashed.
jennifer		 What are you talking to them for?
benny		 What did you say?
pike		Yeah, we're drunk.  We're the Drunks. What's your name?
buffy		Buffy.
benny		Figures.
pike		Do people ever call you 'Buffy the Buffalo?'  I'm just wondering.
pike		 The don't.  You kind of wish they would, though.
kimberly		Wit-tay.
pike		I'm sorry.  I'm Pike.  This is Benny.
kimberly		Pike isn't a name.  It's a fish.
pike		Hey, wait a minute...
benny		You're the guys from the movie!
pike		 We hate you guys!
pike		 You guys were way rude.  It was shocking.
nicole		You just snuck in anyway.
pike		So you have to ruin the movie for us?  You know, other people have feelings, too.
kimberly		I am so sure.
benny		Hey, Buffy, you hungry?  I got something for you...
benny		 Hey!  She wasted my dog!
pike		 Bummer metaphor.
benny		Rich bitches.  They're a plague. They've gotta be stopped.
pike		You didn't like them.
benny		They're all the same!  They're so stuck up, they're just... they're not even human.  I hate them.
pike		Would you sleep with them?
benny		Yes.  Definitely.  Definitely. Please, God.
pike		Well, there it is, isn't it?  You don't even like them, and you'd sleep with them.  What's that all about?
benny		I got a news flash, man, another shot of this and I'll have sex with you.
pike		Oh, yeah, and then you'll never call me.
nicole		Come one, that was so weird.
buffy		 What, it's not weird.  I just cut the stupid hot dog in half.
kimberly		I can't believe they still ate it.
jennifer		 Where'd you learn how to do that?
buffy		I didn't learn... I just... it's not a big deal.
kimberly		Buffy, I'm gonna tell Jeffrey you were playing with another man's Hebrew National.
buffy		 Get a boob job.
nicole		It's like when we took gymnastics in eighth grade.
jennifer		What happened?
nicole		Buffy was on the uneven parallels -- she was really good; coach said she could have been in the Olympics -- but she was doing a routine, spinning, and the beam broke.
jennifer		You're kidding.
nicole		Snapped.  Buffy was, you know, on the upswing, and I swear to God she went across the room.  Perm over heels.
jennifer		Oh, my God!  Ouch!  No wonder you quit.
nicole		Well, that's the thing.  She landed on her feet.  Didn't even sprain a toe.  And I go up to her and she turns and looks at me and she's like this --
nicole		 -- like she's gonna kill me.
buffy		I was just scared is all.
nicole		No.  It was mondo bizarro.
kimberly		Buffy, the ape-woman.
nicole		Seriously, Buffy.  That look was way twisted.  What were you thinking about?
pike		I'll have it running in a week. It's be beauty.  It just needs new shocks, you know, break pads, an engine, and some wheels.  It'll be totally cherry.
benny		When you get your car together, man, let's bail.
pike		You think?  Split?
benny		Utterly.  Let's bail this town. It's getting... I don't know.  Let's go somewhere where there aren't any rich bitches.
pike		Our own world, where we could live and grow beans.  Hundreds of beans.
benny		I think I'm gonna ralf.
pike		Don't worry, Benny.  I'm here for you.
pike		 I'm here for you, Ralf.
amilyn		You wanna go for a ride?
jennifer		What was the step after...  The one from Thursday.  I never learned it right, I don't think.
buffy		That is so cool.
nicole		Thank you very much.
buffy		Nobody is even gonna look at the game.
jennifer		Hey, I was thinking, for the dance, what about a big sign that says 'Don't Tread On Me'.  You know, and a picture of the earth.
buffy		Don't tread on the earth?
nicole		I don't get it.
buffy		How do you not tread on the earth? I mean, you kind of have to.
jennifer		I never thought of that.
nicole		I gotta bail.  You coming?
buffy		You guys blow.  I'm waiting on Cassandra.  She's gonna help me with my history.
nicole		Cassandra's really smart.
buffy		Yeah... She's okay, though.
nicole		I guess.
jeffrey		Are you going out with Jeffrey tonight?
buffy		Jealous?
buffy		 Don't worry, Jennifer.  Someday your prince will come.
nicole		Yeah, just make sure you do first. Let's go, guys.
buffy		B'bye.
buffy		 God, where the hell did you come from?  You scared me to death.
merrick		I'm sorry.  That was impressive. The...  tumbling.
buffy		What?  Oh.  I used to do gymnastics. Are you looking for someone?
merrick		I'm looking for you, actually.
buffy		Am I in trouble or something?
merrick		Not at all.  My name is Merrick.  I was sent to find you some time ago. I should have found you much sooner but there were...  complications. You should have been taught, prepared.
buffy		What are you talking about?
merrick		I've searched the entire world for you, Buffy.
buffy		Why?
merrick		To bring you... your birthright.
buffy		My birthright?  You mean, like a trust fund?
buffy		 I had a trust fund my great- grandfather, or maybe it was an inheritance, 'cause he's dead, and I spent it on shoes.
merrick		You must come with me.  It's much too late already.  You must come with me to the graveyard.
buffy		Wait a minute.  My birthright is in the graveyard?  Later not.
merrick		Wait!
buffy		You're one of those skanky old men that, like, attack girls and stuff. Forget you.  My, um, my boyfriend is gonna be here in about thirty seconds, and he's way testy.
merrick		You don't understand.  You have been chosen.
buffy		Chosen to go to the graveyard?  Why don't you just take the first runner up, okay?
merrick		You must believe me.  You must come with me while there's still time.
buffy		Time to do what?
merrick		To stop the killing.  To stop the vampires.
buffy		Let me get this straight.  You're like, this greasy bum, and I have to go to the graveyard with you 'cause I'm chosen, and there's vampires.
merrick		Yes.
buffy		Does Elvis talk to you?  Tell you to do things?  Do you see spots?
merrick		I don't have time for your prattling. I have proof.  You bear the mark.
merrick		 The mark of the Coven!  The -- where's the mark?
merrick		 The mark of the -- wait a minute.
buffy		You mean that big hairy mole?  Excuse me:  eeyuu.  I had it removed. And, like, knowing about my big old mole isn't proof of anything except that it's way past medication time.
buffy		 Just stay away from me, okay?
merrick		Did you ever dream that you were someone else?
buffy		Everybody does.
merrick		In the past.  A girl.  Maybe... A Magyar peasant.  An Indian princess. A slave.
buffy		I was a slave.
merrick		In Virginia.
buffy		I don't know.  It was...  There was a big gram or something.  And there's one, I'm like a prostitute...
merrick		China.
buffy		Oh, my God.  I never told anybody about this.  I remember the one about the peasant, too.  God, there's a bunch.  Is this, like channeling or something.
buffy		 I had a dream once where I was... There was like, knights in it, and I worked in this bar.  And I... was fighting.  I'm always fighting. And there's a guy...  He's not always there, but he's horrible, all white, and he's always... trying to kill me.
merrick		Lothos.
buffy		How do you know all this?
merrick		I have to show you.
buffy		I can't believe I'm doing this.  I can't believe I'm in a graveyard with a strange man hunting for vampires on a school night.
merrick		Why didn't you ever tell anybody about your dreams?
buffy		Oh, yeah, tell everyone I'm crazy. Beauty ida.
buffy		 Ow.
merrick		Cramps?
buffy		None of your business.  God.
merrick		This is it.
merrick		 Robert Berman was killed three days ago.  The body was found in the bushes out by the canal.  Extensive tissue damage -- tearing -- at the neck and shoulders.  Coroner thinks it's a dog.  You sit her.
buffy		Wait a minute.
merrick		Just for protection.  You won't have to do anything.  I just need you to watch.
buffy		All right.  What do we do now?
merrick		We wait for Robert to wake up.
buffy		Do you have any gum?
buffy		'Bye now.
merrick		Where's the other one?
buffy		She --
merrick		Go to school tomorrow.  Try to act normal.  Don't let anyone know what's happening.  This is important. When the vampires find out who you are... you won't be hunting them anymore.
buffy		All right.
merrick		Meet me at this address after school.
buffy		I have cheerleading squad.
merrick		Skip it.
buffy		Merrick.
buffy		 They can't come in, right?  Unless you invite them.  Is that true?
merrick		It's true.
buffy's mom		Do you know what time it is?
buffy		Uum... around ten?
buffy's mom		I knew this thing was slow.
buffy's mom		 Honey, come on, we're gonna be late.
jeffrey		Hey, baby, how ya doing?  You look beat.
buffy		I do?  I guess I do.
jeffrey		Where were you last night?  I called your house like four times.
buffy		I went to sleep.  I think I have the flu or something.
jeffrey		I can't get sick.  You know -- training and all.  I'm gonna be late.
buffy		'Bye.
nicole		Hey, Buffers.  You look thrashed.
buffy		Thanks.
nicole		You and Cassandra get anything done last night?
buffy		Oh.  No.  She never showed.
lothos		I find it restorative, sleeping in the life-blood of so many.  To feel their souls coursing about me.
cassandra		What's happening?  What do you want?
lothos		 So very much.
cassandra		My parents have money...
lothos		Yes, I'm sure they do.  This place is everything you said it was, Amilyn.
cassandra		What... are you?
lothos		Are we so strange?  So alien to you?  I've seen this culture, the wealth, the greed, the waste... it's truly heartwarming.  The perfect place to spread my empire.  Honestly, Eastern Europe was so dead, the Communists just drained the blood out of the place.  It's livened up a bit in the past few years, but it's nothing compared to this.... this Mecca of consumption.  The city of Angels.
lothos		 What are we?  We are man, perfected. We exist to consume.
amilyn		So?  Do we change this one, or do we just drain her?
cassandra		Here, look.  My gold card.  It's your.  I'll never report it.
lothos		She has a certain quality, this one...
amilyn		I don't think this is gold.
lothos		Not as single-minded as the others, not as sybaritic.  Almost thoughtful. She's useless.
cassandra		No, wait.  I can be dumb.  Really. Or mean, or whatever.  I can learn. I'm useful.
lothos		Really?
cassandra		Swear to God.
lothos		I wish you wouldn't mention him...
buffy		Fire the help.  No kidding.
merrick		It's not pretty, but it does suit our purposes.
buffy		Our purposes.
buffy		 What, um...  What do we do?
merrick		There's a great deal I have to show you, I'm not even sure where to start  There's so little time.
buffy		Why do you keep saying that?
merrick		Do you know what a Vampire-King is?
buffy		A Vampire-King?  You mean like Dracula?
merrick		Oh, yes.  And the man from your dreams.  Lothos.
buffy		Oh, him.
merrick		Yes.  They travel about, usually with one or two of their followers to lay the groundwork.  The vampires find a community and they feed on it, make it their own.  You were difficult to trace, and I think the process has gone a lot further than I'd anticipated.  Usually this goads a community into some kind of paranoid frenzy.  But for some reason, nobody here seems to be paying any attention.
buffy		 What?
merrick		 We'll cover it later.
buffy		I still don't get how they happened to come to my town.  I mean, was I born here because... because they were coming here?  That Lothos guy, and his buddies?
merrick		In a way, yes.  Your fate is inexorably connected to them.
buffy		Great.  First I have a birthright, now I've got a fate.  Hey, do I have to take notes on this?
merrick		 We're going to have the work hard. You'll need some excuse for staying out.  For your parents.
buffy		Not a pressing issue.
merrick		I tell you, the best thing I can do right now is find out more about you.  What your strengths are, your likes...  Everything.  What's your best subject?
buffy		Uh... gym.
merrick		Yes, you used to do gymnastics. But you stopped.  Why?
buffy		Well, everybody says... it's just kind of dorky.  I mean, have you ever seen a gymnast's legs?  They're like --  -- the mighty oak.  It's not a look.
merrick		But you enjoyed it, yes?
buffy		Well... I do cheerleading now. It's way cooler.
merrick		Cheerleading.  For... sporting events, yes?
buffy		Sporting events, yeah.
merrick		All right.  Why don't you show me a cheer?
buffy		Here?
merrick		Yes, yes.  It would be interesting. A nice cheer.
buffy		Okay.
buffy		 Who we gonna beat?
merrick		 Who we gonna beat?
buffy		 No -- you don't have to --
merrick		Oh.  I thought... you lead me --
buffy		No.  You don't do anything.  I do it.
merrick		Oh.  Good.
buffy		Who we gonna beat? Who do we defeat? Who will we be pulverizing Into cream of wheat?
buffy		Oh, what the hell is wrong with you?  You threw a knife at my head!
merrick		I had to test you.
buffy		But you threw a knife at my head!
merrick		And you caught it!  Only the chosen one could have done that.
buffy		I don't want to be the chosen one, okay?  I don't want to spend the rest of my life chasing after vampires!  I just want to graduate from high school, go to Europe, marry Charlie Sheen and die.  It may not sound too exciting to a sconehead like you, but I think it's swell.  And then you come along...  and... and then I'm a member of the hairy mole club, so you throw things at me!
merrick		It was necessary.
buffy		 Last night.  You knew I was sitting on a fresh grave, didn't you?
merrick		I don't think you understand the full implications of --
buffy		Oh.  Sorry.
merrick		 God, this hurts.  I've administered a few shocks to your system to start the adrenaline working.  I'm sorry I have to take so many shortcuts in the training process.
buffy		Put your head back.
merrick		Two days ago, would you have even hit me?  Let alone so powerfully?
buffy		No... I guess I would have gotten Jeffrey to hit you.
merrick		Exactly.  You're changing.  You're becoming something extraordinarily powerful.
buffy		 Ooh, another embarrassment for the teabag, while the chosen one is still well under par.
merrick		Your turn.
buffy		What about bats?  Do they turn into bats?
merrick		No.  No bats, no flying.  They... float, occasionally.  Not really flying.
buffy		Toasty.  Were there ever any, like, famous vampires?
merrick		Oh, several.  Lucretia Borgia, Joseph Mengele, Franklin Pangborn... are any of those names familiar?
buffy		If I say 'no' does that make me a bad person?
merrick		Good Lord.  What do you study in history?
buffy		My nails.
merrick		All right.  You've heard of the emperor Caligula, perhaps?  Or Jack the Ripper?
buffy		They were vampires?
merrick		Same one.
buffy		Oh.
buffy		Excuse me...
priest		Yes, my child?  Is something troubling you?
buffy		Well, sort of.
priest		Well, maybe I can help.
buffy		Yeah.  Um... Could you bless these?
merrick		... Lothos was probably born in the eleventh or twelfth century; he's been difficult to trace.  His power has increased with age.  It will be a long while before you are ready to face him.  We'll be lucky if we can get him to leave the area, to lie low for awhile.  That will scatter the rest of them.  Lothos is...
merrick		 ... is extremely powerful, but he is still a vampire, and vulnerable to the same...
merrick		 Daylight is still his enemy.  The stake can still find his heart.
merrick		 I have huge antlers growing out of my buttocks.
buffy		 What!?!
merrick		Try to pay attention.
gary murray		Well, I think we can safely say that something's going on with you, Buffy.  Now, there's nothing to be nervous about; you're not in any trouble.  I just hoped maybe we could talk.  Don't think of me as Gary Murray, administrator.  Think of me as Gary Murray, party guy! Happening dude who can talk to the young.  Me and you.  It's open... Tell me.  It's drugs, isn't it?
gary murray		Hey, there's nothing to be afraid of!  I know where you're coming from.  Believe me.  I'll tell you the truth.  I've had my drug experiences, too.  I did a lot -- I did some acid in the Sixties.  Well, the late Seventies, actually.  It was at a Doobie Brother's concert.
gary murray		... and I could see the music flowing into me, it was bright red and electric, and I felt like a big toaster, and I thought, maybe I am a toaster, we're all molecules, and my friend Melissa, her head looked like a big party balloon, and that scared me, I started to freak out...
gary murray		I guess you're surprised.  Well, you know, there's more to most people than meets the eye.  Everybody's got a secret.  I just want you to know that you can always share your secrets with me.  What you say in this office, it will stay in this office.  I'm your pal.
benny		Pike...
pike		Benny, man, where you been?  You bailed on me, I passed out, man, I almost did a Jimi Hendrix!
benny		Let me in.
pike		Hey, I'm trying, but this window is burnt --
benny		Invite me in, Pike.
pike		Wait a minute.  What's wrong with you, man?
benny		I'm fine.
pike		You look like shit, Benny.
benny		I... feel.... pretty.
pike		No offense, man, but I think you're on something nasty.  Why don't you just go and cool out and I'll see you in the morning or something.
benny		The sun!  It burns!  It burns!
benny		 Let me in, Pike!  I'm hungry!
pike		Get away from here.
benny		I'm hungry.
pike		I mean it.
benny		I'm hungry!  I'm hungry!  I'm hungry!
buffy		Sure is cold.  What a dark night. Nice night for a walk.
buffy		 'Feelings, la la la la feelings'... Boy, I'm helpless.
buffy		 Yeucch.
buffy		 Hello...
buffy		 What do you want?
buffy		 Toaster-caked him!
merrick		He was slow.  Very simple.  They won't all be that easy.
buffy		Fine.
merrick		And the alley was a mistake.  Never corner yourself like that.  If they'd come at you in force you'd be dead now.  One vampire is a lot easier to kill then ten.
buffy		Does the world 'Duhh' mean anything to you?
merrick		You felt a little sick, didn't you? The cramps.
buffy		Nice conversationalist!  Yeah, I felt 'em a little, but I ain't due for two weeks since you're so excited about the subject.
merrick		It's natural.  A reaction to their presence, to the... unnaturalness of it.  It's part of how you are able to track them.
buffy		Oh, wonderful.  My secret weapon is - PMS.  That's just great.  Thanks for telling me.
merrick		You'll get used to it.  I'm more worried about your tactical mistakes.
buffy		You are such a wet.
merrick		A what?
buffy		A wet!  Didn't I just kill that vampire?  I think I did.  I didn't see you killing any vampires.  You were too busy playing 'Beat the Clock'.
merrick		Don't start with me again.
buffy		Aren't I, like the chosen one?  The one and only?  The Grand High Poobah and doesn't that mean you have to be nice to me?  Like, ever?
merrick		Buffy...
buffy		And why are you always wearing black? It's so down.  It's totally not your color.  I don't think you have a color.
merrick		What do you want?  Encouragement?  'Gosh, Buffy, you're so special, I just want to give you a great big hug, oh I'm just having a warm fuzzy.'
buffy		Oh, fuck you!
merrick		Do you know how many girls I've trained to be Slayers?  Five.  Five properly prepared girls, girls who faced their responsibilities, who worked hard to become women overnight -- harder than you've ever worked in your life -- and I saw them ripped apart.  Do you want to live?  Do you?
buffy		I...
merrick		What did you think, that being able to jump about and hit people makes you a Slayer?
buffy		Five?
merrick		Five.
buffy		So, basically, I've got the life expectancy of a zit, right?
merrick		Not if you're careful.
buffy		How can you keep doing this?
merrick		It's what I was raised to do.  There aren't many of us left, the Watchers.
buffy		Watchers?
merrick		There's a small village in Hampshire, near Stonehenge...  I'm sorry.  I'm not supposed to... I shouldn't go on like this.
buffy		I wish you would.
merrick		It isn't important.
buffy		I'm curious, is all.
merrick		Buffy, don't... don't start thinking of me as your friend.  It interferes with the work, and it...
buffy		And it makes it worse when I die, right?
buffy		 Well, you know, I'm not gonna kick so easy.  I've got a few things the other girls didn't have.
merrick		As for example, what?
buffy		Well... there's my keen fashion sense, for one.
merrick		Vampires of the world, beware.
buffy		 Merrick.  You made a joke.  Are you okay, I mean, do you want to lie down?  I know it hurts the first time.
jennifer		So they found Cassandra's body out by the railway tunnels.  Nobody's saying anything, but they think she was involved in something, like, illegal or something.  Like dealing.
kimberly		Well, I hope so.
jennifer		Probably was.  What do you suppose she was doing out there.
buffy		Dying.
jennifer		Eeyuu.
andy		... And they're having some memorial service or something tomorrow.  You going?
jeffrey		I don't know.  Coach said I had to work on my 'ab's.'
andy		Coach knows what abs are?
andy		 Got to get some!
andy		 Whoa!  Whoa!  I'm sorry.  I'm sorry. I don't actually need any right now.
jeffrey		 What's with you?
buffy		Don't grab me, okay?
andy		Absolutely.  I see now the error of my mistake.
jeffrey		Yeah, keep your mitts off my thang. I'll pop you one.  Did he scare you?
buffy		I can take care of myself, Jeffrey.
jeffrey		So I noticed.
jeffrey		 Nice to feel needed.
andy		Let's move out!
jeffrey		 Yes!
buffy		I mean, most of the time Jeffrey's really sweet, but sometimes he gets kind of... 'Me-Tarzan'ish, you know what I mean?  Lately it bugs me, I guess.  Merrick?  Are you still breathing?
buffy		We call them zippers.  They're not supposed to be a challenge.
merrick		But it's in the back.  Why are we wasting time with this, anyway?
buffy		Because you clash, Merrick.  You clash with everything.  I mean you might as well go around with a sign, 'Slayers trained her.'  Honestly, you look like something out of... Pasadena.
merrick		My clothes have always been perfectly serviceable.
buffy		Well, you're on my turf now.  You're just gonna have to trust me.
merrick		I want to die.
buffy		 Okay.  The important thing is not to panic.
pike		You said you'd have the part by two!  Christ, it's almost dark.
zeph		What nasty bug crawled up your bungus and where the hell are you going?
pike		I'm leaving, man.  I'm bailing town. This place has gotten way too hairy.
zeph		Where am I gonna find another mechanic stupid enough to work for my money?
pike		Hey, have you seen Benny lately?
zeph		No...  You want me to give him a message?
pike		You should think about leaving, too, man.  Sell this place... Something's going on here.  I don't know.  Something real weird.
zeph		Ah, you'll be coming back.
pike		I don't think so.
zeph		All right.  Take care of yourself.
pike		I am.
zeph		Hey.  What should I do if I see Benny?
pike		Run.
zeph		That's my guitar...
pike		Come on, come on.  Don't leave me, baby.  Come on, breathe.
pike		 This is for the money, baby.  Make me proud.
pike		Oh, give me a break.
buffy		 I'm on the east side, near the playground...  all right.
buffy		 Hi.
pike		Hi there.
buffy		Is that your car?
pike		It was.  I think it's pretty much ready for the --
merrick		Interesting.
buffy		I kind of had to improvise.  Sorry about your guitar.
pike		That's okay.  Umm, listen, I'm not.... I have to fall down now.
lothos		What's wrong with you!?!
amilyn		My arm!  He took my fucking arm!
lothos		Shut up!  You let him have it!
lothos		 You reckless imbecile.  This place is ours for the taking and you let yourself... twelve hundred years old and you act like a child.
amilyn		I had him in my grasp.
lothos		Cheer up.  You may still.
amilyn		 I look horrible.
lothos		The other two -- the new ones. Where are they?
amilyn		I don't know.  But the boy, he couldn't kill them.
lothos		 Find out if they're dead.  And do something about that arm.  Honestly, I don't know how you made it through the Crusades.
lothos		 Let me know about our little recruits.  I'll be in my chamber...
lothos		 ... having a snack.
buffy		How are you doing?
pike		Oh, I'm good.  I'm good.  Kind of miss my knees, though.
buffy		You want some water or something?
pike		Water.  Okay.
pike		 Do you do this kind of thing a lot? I mean, is this like a hobby?
buffy		Not exactly.
pike		They were vampires, weren't they?
buffy		Yeah.
pike		God!  Unbelievable.  Vampires.
buffy		You had a car full of stuff.  Were you leaving?
pike		Yeah, I was bailing.  I have a friend, and he's really... well, he's really vampire, I guess.  Bad scene.
buffy		Well, stay here tonight.
pike		Thanks.  Tomorrow morning, I'm on a bus.  I'm gone.
buffy		Where are you gonna go?
pike		Well, I've always wanted to see Oxnard.
pike		 Hey, jeez are you okay?  You need a hand?
buffy		It's nothing.  It doesn't hurt.
pike		 Who are you?
pike		 I'm sorry, I just mean... well you seemed like such a flake.  But, in a good way!  I can just keep talking till you strike me dead, or...
buffy		Things are kind of confusing.
pike		I'll back that up.
buffy		Three weeks ago all I thought about was... well, I didn't actually think about anything.  I definitely didn't expect this.
pike		I know.  My guidance counselor never mentioned anything about vampires. 'Prison' came up a few times, but nothing about undead.
buffy		It's weird.  I went back to my old grade school once, to the playground -- I used to hang out there all the time, playing on the swings and stuff... I went back and it was so tiny, the whole place.  I couldn't even fit on the swings.  Everything just looked so small.  I'm sorry.  I'm babbling.
pike		No, you're not.
buffy		I'm kinda beat.  You can stay in my mom's room if you want.
pike		I think I'll just hang out here. Make sure the sun comes up and everything.
buffy		You sure?
pike		Oh, I'll be fine.  Got my chair, got my window, I'm great.
buffy		Mmkay.
pike		Hey, Buffy...
buffy		Yeah?
pike		You know, you saved my life.  And I just wanted to say... I forgive you for talking during the movie. Almost.
merrick		There isn't time.
buffy		Make time, okay?  You're the one who told me to act normal.  I've missed three practices already.  If I'm not there for the Barber game tomorrow everyone's gonna talk.
merrick		Another distraction.  It's not right.
buffy		Why because it's not my fate?  It's not in the Book-of-All- Knowledgefullness that I'm gonna be cheerleading at the Barber game?
merrick		Sooner or later you're going to have to accept it.  Your fate.
buffy		I'm pretty much learning not to accept anything anymore.  Come on, Merrick.  Football.  Afterwards we can kill and kill until there is nothing left.
merrick		All right.
buffy		Toasty.  You should come; it's gonna be a great game.
merrick		Oh, I'll be there all right.  I'm not letting you out of my sight. Not till you're ready.
buffy		Try and be inconspicuous, okay? Act like a fan.
merrick		 Football is my life.
buffy		You're learning.  Slowly, incredibly slowly, but you're learning.
merrick		None of the other girls ever gave me this much trouble.
buffy		And where are they now?
jeffrey		So that's your tutor, huh?  What is he, like, your boyfriend now?
buffy		Jeffrey.  Projectile vomit.
coach		Some people say winning is a state of mind.  Can't win out there if you don't win --  -- in here.  I say, winning isn't a state of mind.  I say winning is having more points.  And how do we get point?  By putting the thing, the ball over the.. in the place.
amilyn		End zone.
coach		Right.  So I don't care about your minds.  Maybe you're tired.  Maybe you're worried about your grades. Maybe you dog just died or you've suddenly found that you're attracted to other men.  I don't care!  'Cause we're a team.  And there only on thing that matters to a team.  What that?
team		Winning!
coach		And how do we win?
team		By putting the thing in the place!!
coach		So let's go!!
team		Yeahh!!!!
coach		There you are!  You missed practice again.  You're benched till the fourth, um, the fourth part.  Now get out there.
grueller		Go team.  Rah.  Go team go.
cheerleaders		Two!  Four!  Six!  Eight! Who do we emasculate! Barber!  Barber!  Yay!!
nicole		Buffy, Jesus!  You know these steps.
buffy		Sorry.
teen		Hey, can I borrow your binoculars, man?
merrick		 No.
teen		You're checking out the cheerleaders. All right.  Buffy, man.
merrick		What about her?
teen		Everybody knows about her, man.
merrick		Knows what about her?
teen		She's had sex.
merrick		I'm on the wrong bloody side.
andy		Twenty-three!  Thirty-two!  Hike!
coach		Come on!  Do the thing!  Where you... go towards the guy!  Come one! Throw the thing!
kimberly		What are they doing?  The clock's running out!  Throw the ball!
kimberly		Are they so brain-dead?
vampire fan		Rah.
buffy		Jeffrey...
nicole		Buffy!
jennifer		What is she...
kimberly		Oh, wow.  She's really lost it.
vampire fan		Party hearty.
merrick		Wait!
buffy		 He knows who I am!
biker		Hey, babe.  You want to get some real power between your legs?
biker		Dyke!  You're a dyke!  I'm telling the world!
grueller		Fall down go boom have to see the nurse.
grueller		They killed me.
buffy		No kidding.
grueller		The Master walks tonight.  This is his kingdom, now.
grueller		 You know, Buffy, I've always wanted you.
pike		I didn't mean it!  I didn't mean it!
buffy		I didn't expect to see you.
pike		I know.
buffy		Why'd you come back?
pike		I don't know.  I kind of thought I ought to be here.  You know, this isn't exactly the kind of thing you can run away from.
buffy		Thanks.
pike		Besides, Oxnard sucks.
pike		 Listen, I... I really do want to help.  I mean, these guys are dag nasty, and somewhere my best friend is out there, and I'd like to, I don't know.  Even the score.  Do some damage.  I'm good with damage.
buffy		Pike, I don't think you're up to this.
pike		I think I could help.  You gonna tell me you don't need help?
merrick		Did you see a girl come by here?
biker		You don't mean, like, a cheerleader?
merrick		Yes.
biker		Yeah, I saw her.  Bitch took my wheels.
merrick		Wheels?
biker		My bike!  She's a lesbian, too. She told me.
merrick		Which way did she go?
biker		Down there.
merrick		Idiot girl.  Can't watch over her. How long ago did --
merrick		Oh, my God.
lothos		It's a beautiful night.  I have never understood the human tendency to equate darkness with emptiness. To me the black is so thick with life, like soil...  like blood. Darkness writhes under my eye.
lothos		 I know who you are.  She's out her, as well, isn't she?  Another Slayer. Who is it this time?  What offering have you brought me?
pike		Buffy?  What's wrong?
buffy		Oh, God.  It's him.  I think it's him.
pike		Who?
buffy		 Merrick...
buffy		 Stay here.
lothos		It doesn't really matter.  The names, the faces, they all melt together. After a time, there really is no difference.  One more pathetic bitch, begging for me to suck on her clotted heart.
merrick		This one may surprise you.
lothos		I rather doubt it, if she was raised here.
lothos		 Where is she?  I can't wait to meet her.  Do you think she's ready to face me?  Or perhaps you can stop me with that gun.
merrick		Perhaps.
lothos		Look at you.  You pathetic thing. So small, so full of fury.  After you've served me for a hundred years, I think you'll have a little more perspective.
merrick		I don't think so.
lothos		Fool.
buffy		Ummm, our Father, Who art in Heaven, duhmm... hallowed be Thy name. Uhh, kingdom come, daily break, I don't know.  I don't even know if you're religious.  You probably are.  But you're dead, you know. You're just totally dead.  and...
buffy		 ... and I don't know what to do. You were the one who... I don't know if the training was over.  I don't even know if I passed.  You're so stupid!  How could you be so stupid?  What am I supposed to do without you?  You son of a bitch!
buffy		 Amen.
zeph		Hah, I'd knew you'd be back.  Didn't I say you'd be back?  Ha, ha, ha! You're sitting in your old car saying 'Nope, I'm never coming back.' Hee, Hee!  Like you got anywhere to go.  'I'm never coming back'  But I knew you would.  Birds got to return to the nest sooner or later.  That's what I said.  Just like I told you...
zeph		 Hah!  Shot the damn tire, dumbass, didn't even look, just going around shooting things, popped it flat, ya bonehead.
jennifer		I got all the plastic stuff.  What should I do with it?
kimberly		 Throw it out.
nicole		I really was way way too too.
kimberly		Oh, please!  When she ran onto the field in the middle of the game? Was that the most out-of-it thing ever, or did I blink?
nicole		I'm, like, yelling at her, 'What are you doing?'  And she's going 'Jeffrey, Jeffrey!'  Way mental.
jennifer		Hi, Buffy.
buffy		Hi, guys.
kimberly		You were supposed to be here at three.
buffy		I forgot.
kimberly		Buffy, what is your sitch?  You're acting like The Thing From Another Tax-Bracket; it's too weird.
buffy		Look, a lot's been going on.  That's what I wanted to tell you guys about. I need to tell you.  You see... a while ago, I met this guy --
kimberly		Oh my God you're having an affair.
nicole		Cool!
jennifer		Does Jeffrey know?
buffy		It's not that at all.  This is an old guy, he's like fifty.
buffy		No, no.  Listen.  Haven't you guys noticed how weird things have gotten around here?  Like, people disappearing, people turning up dead...
nicole		What are you talking about?
kimberly		Weird?  You mean like you hanging out with that homeless, Poke?  I saw you last night after the game.
buffy		Pike.
nicole		You're having a fling with him?
jennifer		He doesn't look fifty.
buffy		Guys.  Guys!  Reality pulled out of her five minutes ago.
kimberly		Oh, thank you very much.
nicole		Like you've got a grip.
kimberly		You're so out of it.  You've blown off cheerleading, you've blown off dance committee --
buffy		Excuse me for having something important to do.
kimberly		This isn't important?  The earth is our home.
buffy		Kimberly, it's a dance.  It's a stupid dance with a bunch of stupid kids that I see every stupid day.
nicole		So, we're stupid now?
kimberly		You know, just because you're having full-on wiggans doesn't mean you have to drag us into it.  This isn't just any dance.  It happens ot be the last dance of our last year.
nicole		Except for Prom.
kimberly		Right.
jennifer		And Spring Fling.
kimberly		Okay.
nicole		And the January Semi-formal --
kimberly		Okay!  Look, Buffy.  You want to play house with the unwashed masses, that's fine.  But personally, I think you ought to spend a little time prioritizing.  I really do.
buffy		Listen to you.  What language are you speaking?
kimberly		Get out of my facial.
nicole		Well, I guess you got what you came for.
buffy		Nicole...
nicole		Later for it.
buffy's mom		Dinner's in the fridge, stay away from the Jag, we'll be back by twelve.
buffy's mom		 Buffy, honey?
buffy		 Yeah?
buffy's mom		Have you gained a few pounds?  Maybe it's that outfit...
buffy		Maybe.
buffy's mom		What's Bobby gonna say?
buffy		I don't know, Mom; I've never met Bobby.
buffy's mom		 Aren't we the chatty ones.  Kiss noise.
pike		Buffy, hey, I've been looking all over for you.
pike		 I been working on some stuff for you.  What'cha doing?
buffy		I'm going shopping.  Don't try to stop me.
pike		Cool.  I could actually use a couple of Allen wrenches.  What do you need?
buffy		A dress.
pike		Dress, huh?  What for?
buffy		For the dance.
pike		Come again?
buffy		I'm going to the senior dance.
pike		 Second word... sound like 'dance'.
buffy		I'm going to the dance.
pike		What for?
buffy		In order to dance and to drink punch and to be with my friends. Comprende?
pike		I don't believe this.  The world's under attack by the legions of the undead and you're going to a mixer?
buffy		It's not a mixer.  It's the senior dance.  And it's important.  You wouldn't understand.
pike		You got that right.  I thought you wanted to kill vampires.
buffy		I don't want to kill anybody, and I don't want to talk about it anymore.
pike		Listen, I know you're bummed about your friend, and I'm really sorry...
buffy		 He did what he was supposed to.
pike		But, Buffy, you're the guy, the chosen guy.
buffy		Right.  I'm the chosen one.  And I choose to be shopping.
pike		I should have known.
buffy		Leave me alone.
pike		Benny was right.  You guys are all exactly the same.
pike		 I'm not disappointed, I'm just angry.
buffy		Buffy?  Buffy?
lothos		Buffy...
andy		Well, it came with the tux.
andy		Buffy!  Looking tasty.
buffy		Thanks.  Have you seen Jeffrey?
buffy		 Hi, guys.
nicole		Hi.
buffy		Have you guys seen Jeffrey?  The limo never showed, I thought he might be here.
nicole		I haven't seen him tonight.
buffy		Oh.
buffy		 I'm glad you guys are here.  It's good to see you.
kimberly		 Yeah, whoops I came.
buffy		 You look way pretty, Kim.
kimberly		I know.  I like your little outfit.
nicole		It's amazing what you can do with a parachute and some starch.
kimberly		As long as there's room for three in it.  What, didn't you bring your new friends?
buffy		I guess you guys are mad at me. I'm sorry.  I've been really --
buffy		 Jeffrey!  There you are.  I --
jeffrey		Buffy, what are you doing here?
buffy		I thought we were meeting here.
jeffrey		I'm here with Jenny.
buffy		I don't understand.
jeffrey		Oh, come on, Buffy.  You know what's going on.  It's not working out at all.  I've got to move on.  I mean, I've got needs, too.  I told you about all this.
buffy		No, you didn't.  When?
jeffrey		Didn't you get my message?
buffy		You broke up with my machine?
jeffrey		You weren't home.  Like always.
buffy		You left me a message?
jeffrey		I'm out of here.  Jenny.
pike		I crashed your party.
buffy		Pretty shallow of you.
pike		That's me.
buffy		I'm glad you came.
pike		Yeah, you look like you're having a swell time.
pike		 Will I get the shit kicked out of me if I ask you to dance?
buffy		I don't actually think Jeffrey's gonna notice.
pike		Yeah, well, you're the one I'm afraid of.
pike		 You know, you're not like the other girls.
buffy		Yes, I am.
kimberly		I can't believe it.
bloody student		They're out there!  They're vampires! God, help me!
buffy		Don't go near the door.
buffy		Don't worry!  They can't come in here.  They can't come in unless they're invited.
kimberly		I already invited them.
kimberly		 They're seniors!
buffy		The first thing we should --
pike		 Looks like you're busted.
gary murray		All right, everybody stay calm.  What's going on?
pike		Looks bad, Buffy.
senior girl		Send her out.
buffy		What?
kimberly		They'll kill us!  She's the one they're mad at.
senior boy		Yeah!  Send her out!
gary murray		Everybody be quiet!
andy		What, are you kidding?  They'll kill her!
kimberly		They'll kill us!
pike		 You want some punch?
gary murray		I got detention slips here, I'm not afraid to use them...
pike		There's gotta be a back way out of here, or something.
buffy		I'm going out the front.
pike		Are you nuts, Buffy?  There's a hundred of them out there.  They'll rip us apart.
buffy		You're staying here.  Some of them might not come after me.  If they don't this place is gonna turn into a total stain.
pike		You say that like it's a bad thing.
andy		Buffy, this is crazy.  What do these guys want?
buffy		Andy, start breaking up some chairs. You'll need weapons.
buffy		 Good thing one of us was prepared.
pike		Buffy, there's no way you're going out there alone.
buffy		Don't piss me off.
pike		 Come on, move.
pike		Yes!
kimberly		It's okay!  I think they're going after her!
pike		 I'll bet you feel stupid.
gary murray		Let's get away from these windows! Find something to cover them with.
pike		Bring round the table.
nicole		There's nails and stuff we used to put everything up.
pike		Get 'em.
jennifer		Oh, yes!  Yes!
jeffrey		Oh, baby!
jennifer		Make me a woman!  Yes!  Make me a woman!
buffy		 Oops!
jeffrey		Buffy?
jennifer		 Jeffrey!
jeffrey		 Well, I'm done.  Are you done?
jennifer		No --
jeffrey		Okay, let's go.
jennifer		But --
pike		The heart!  Stab them in the heart!
benny		Isn't this great, Pike?  Isn't it great?  Finally got those bitches on the run.
benny		 Of course I'm angry!  I leave you alone for five minutes, and look who you're hanging out with!
benny		 I don't want girls with good taste; I want a girl that tastes good!
benny		 I was gonna change you, man.  I was gonna give you life!  Do you know what that means?
benny		Never die.  Never get kicked around, never get busted.
benny		 It means never having to say you're sorry!  And you blow it all off for that slut?!  What about my needs?!
benny		 'Ooh, make me a woman, Jeffrey... oh, Jeffrey, you're so atheletical... I love you...'
amilyn		All clear?
amilyn		Pleased to meet you!  Won't you guess my --  -- name?
buffy		 It wouldn't be 'Dick,' would it?
buffy		 'Lefty'?
amilyn		You're a fool, bloodbag.  Die a fool and go to hell!
amilyn		 The chosen one.  You're just another bloodbag -- not even fit to die for the Master.  When will you ever learn?
buffy		 I do know... one thing...
amilyn		What?
buffy		I know... what time sunrise is.
amilyn		No!
buffy		It's in about four hours, Dick.
buffy		Oh, god, no... not yet...
lothos		I knew you'd come.
lothos		 You knew it, too, didn't you?  All your life, dreaming... waiting to feed me.
lothos		 Don't you understand?  I've killed you a dozen times.  Your life is not a blink of my eye, not a single breath.  I have lived in the shadows, in the pulsing filth behind men's eyes.  A thousand years, and more. I have conversed with the worms that fed on my corpse and I have bathed in the blood of emperors.
buffy		 Have you ever thrown up in the front row of a Richard Marx concert?
lothos		What?
lothos		You waste time.  That is a sin.
lothos		 You're even weaker than the others.
buffy		I think you've forgotten something.
lothos		This?  This is you only weapon? Your puny faith?
buffy		No...
buffy		 ... my keen fashion sense.
buffy		This is the suckiest party I have ever been to.  It's not even a contest.
buffy		Oops.
kimberly		Don't let her in!  Don't let her in!
kimberly		 They'll kill us!  Get her out!
pike		Are you okay?
buffy		Get away from me!
lothos		You bitch!
lothos		 You would challenge me?
lothos		 I'll rip the flesh from your stinking bones!
lothos		 I am a God!  A God!
buffy		I am so sure.
lothos		It doesn't... hurt... as much as I had imagined.
gary murray		Just a minute, you!  I'm not finished with you!
jennifer		She was even crazier after that.  I mean it, you wouldn't even have recognized her.
kimberly		Buffy?
jennifer		She didn't even hardly talk to anyone in school.  All year.  She didn't even go to the prom.
jeffrey		I heard she got straight A's.
jeffrey		 That's what I heard.
kimberly		The worst is, her parents -- this is true -- her parents were gonna send her to the Bahamas for graduation, and she refused.  True story.  She said she didn't want to go.  It is to vomit.
boy		Well, where is she now?
pike		I didn't say it was a bad idea, I just said the timing was off.  We could maybe wait till later.
buffy		Don't be such a fraidy-cat.
pike		Who's afraid?  Besides me, I mean.
buffy		We've come all this way.  We just have to check it out.  I got a hunch.
pike		You're the boss, boss.  I just thought maybe we should wait.
buffy		Trust me.
****Dialogues from script :Bull_Durham.txt****

annie		Which makes it like sex.  Making love is like hitting a baseball -- you just got to relax and concentrate.
annie		Besides, I'd never sleep with a player hitting under .250 unless he had a lot of R.B.I.'s or was a great glove man up the middle.  A woman's got to have standards.
annie		The young players start off full of enthusiasm and energy but they don't realize that come July and August when the weather is hot it's hard to perform at your peak level.  While I don't believe a woman needs a man to be fulfilled, I do confess an interest in finding the ultimate guy -- he'd have that youthful exuberance but the veteran's sense of timing...
annie		Y'see there's a certain amount of "life-wisdom" I give these boys.  Of course a guy will listen to anything if he thinks it's foreplay.
annie		I make then feel confident. They make me feel safe. And pretty.
annie		What I give them lasts a life-time. What they give me lasts 142 games. Sometimes it seems like a bad trade.  It's a long season and you got to trust it.
annie		I've tried them all -- I really have --  and the only church that truly feeds the soul -- day in, day out -- is the Church of Baseball.
skip		Where's Ebby?
larry		Ain't he warning up?
skip		 No. The guy's professional debut and he forgets about it.
larry		Better find our bonus baby, eh?
skip		Seen Ebby?
deke		 Nope.
skip		Ebby?!
skip		Jesus. Game starts in four minutes!  Why ain't you warm?!
ebby		I am warm.
skip		I'm fining you a hundred dollars. Jesus, Ebby, this is your professional debut tonight -- you know how many guys out there'd give blood to be in your shoes an' you're leavin' your fastball in the locker room for some piece of ass!
millie		Skip, It's me! I'm not some quote piece of ass unquote.
skip		Oh, Millie, jeez, sorry -- I didn't recognize ya. Don't take it personal but if I catch you in here again you're banned from the ballpark.
millie		You can't ban me from the ballpark 'cause Daddy donated the scoreboard and if you banned me he might take the scoreboard away.
skip		Whatta we need a scoreboard for? We haven't scored any runs all year  Get your ass out there.
ebby		Hey Boss, I got a question.
skip		 What?!
ebby		You think I need a nickname? I think I need a nickname. The great ones have nicknames -- somethin' like Oil Can or Catfish...
skip		Ya got three minutes.
ebby		Got time for another quickie?
millie		Jesus, you got a game to pitch!
ebby		But we got three minutes.
recording		When the clock strikes two, three, and four and the band slows down we'll yell for more, gonna rock around the clock tonight.
annie		Number twenty-two's thighs are just great. Who's he?
jackson		 Jose Galindo. He hit .314 at Lynchburg last year.
annie		Three-fourteen? Hmmm...  Look't those thighs, Jackson.
announcer		Let's hear it for Max Patkin --
announcer		"The Greatest Show on Dirt" -- your own Durham Bulls!
ebby		I'm there, Skip, I'm ready.
whitey		Is this guy LaLoosh worth a hundred grand? I hear he's a quart low?
annie		-- Millie, you've got to stay out of the clubhouse. It'll just get everybody in trouble.
millie		I got lured.
annie		You didn't get "lured". Women never get lured. They're too strong and powerful for that. Now say it -- "I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
millie		"I didn't get lured and I will take responsibility for my actions".
annie		That's better.  Got the radar ready?
jackson		Ready.
skip		Little high.
larry		 C'mon big 'un, you're okay...
jackson		Ninety-five miles an hour.
annie		He looks great, just great!
catcher		What the hell was that?! Lighten up a little. Awright?
ebby		 Hey -- what's your name again -- I'm bad with names --
catcher		Ed. You want me to write it on my chest? Jesus ...
ebby		Sorry. Hey, Ed, I got a question.
catcher		What?
ebby		Who's the beef sitting behind the third base dugout?
catcher		 That's Annie Savoy. Nice eh? But that's more woman than you ever dreamed of, Rook. She could kick your ass and have you for breakfast.
teddy		One ball and no strikes to Willie Foster...
annie		Take this to Ebby in the dugout between innings.
jackson		What's it say?
annie		It says he's not bending his back on his follow-through.
annie		Well let's get down to it, honey -- how was he?
millie		Well, he fucks like he pitches. Sorta all over the place
jose		Hey Lefty, hold 'em to 12 runs every night, you'll win 20 --
ebby		 Had 'em all the way.
jimmy		Dear Lord, thank you for being with us tonight, thank you for protecting us from injury and --
deke		Wake up, wake up --
mickey		This league is racist, man.
tony		Every time you go 0 for 4 you think the league is racist -- face it, Mick, you're an equal opportunity "out".
skip		He walked eighteen?!
larry		It's a league record.
skip		Struck out eighteen...
larry		League record.  Joe, the guy's got some serious shit.
larry		Who're you?
crash		I am the player to be named later.
skip		Crash Davis?
crash		The Crash Davis.  And you, Larry Hockett, should recognize me 'cause five years ago in the Texas League when you were pitching for El Paso and I was hitting cleanup for Shreveport, you hung a curve on an 0-2 pitch of a 3-2 game in bottom of the 8th and I tattooed it over the Goodyear Tire sign, beat you 4-3 -- and I got a free wheel alignment from Goodyear.
larry		 Oh yeah. I shoulda throwed a slider. Damn, Crash, how're ya?
skip		I'm Joe Riggins. Sit down
crash		I'm too old for this shit. Why the hell am I back in "A" ball?
skip		'Cause of Ebby Calvin LaLoosh.  The Big Club's got a hundred grand in him --
larry		He's got a million dollar arm and a five cent head.
skip		-- we had the gun on him tonight -- the last five pitches he threw were faster than the first five. 96 miles an hour, 98, 97, 97. 97.  He's got the best young arm I've seen in 30 years.
larry		But he ain't quite sure which plane he's on, y'know what I mean...
skip		You been around, you're smart, you're professional, you know what it takes --  We want you to mature the kid.
crash		"Mature" ain't a fuckin' verb.
larry		You go to college or what?
skip		We want you to room with him on the road and stay on his case all year.  He can go all the way.
crash		And where can I go?
skip		You can keep going to the ballpark and keep gettin' paid to do it.  Beats hell outta working at Sears.
larry		Sears sucks, Crash, I tried it once. Sold Lady Kenmores -- it's nasty, nasty work.
skip		Even if it's the Carolina League -- this is a chance to play everyday.
crash		 Fuck this fucking game... I fuckin' quit.
crash		Who we play tomorrow?
skip		Winston-Salem. Batting practice at
ed		You wanted to see me?
skip		Yeah, Ed, shut the door...
skip		This is the toughest job a manager has, Ed...  But the organization has decided to make a change -- we're releasing you from your contract...
whitey		How's it feel to get your first professional win?
ebby		It feels "out there". A major rush. I mean it doesn't just feel "out there" but it feels out there.
crash		Hopeless. Utterly fucking hopeless.
millie		Hi, I'm Millie.
tony		I'm Tony. I play left field.
millie		I know.
max		Love the game, Annie, love it  -- and I'll have a few ashes saved for the rosin bag so I'll still be in the game after I'm gone.
annie		What a sweet idea --
annie		We didn't order this, honey...
waitress		 He did.
annie		 Who's that?
max		Hey -- that's Crash Davis. He's played in more towns than I have. Helluva guy -- real different... I actually saw him read a book without pictures once
annie		Really? Kinda cute...
crash		I'm Crash Davis.
annie		Annie Savoy. Wanta dance?
crash		I don't dance.
annie		I don't trust a man who don't dance. It ain't natural.
max		Who's he dancing with?
annie		All of 'em, I think...
ebby		Thanks for the note -- you're right, I wasn't bending my back.
annie		You got a live arm there.
ebby		Ebby Calvin LaLoosh.
annie		You need a nickname.
ebby		That's what I been telling everybody! Wanta dance?
crash		She's dancing with me.
annie		Crash, I didn't think you --
crash		I'll learn. C'mon --
ebby		Just a minute, pal...
annie		You boys gonna fight over little me?
ebby		Step outside, pal.
crash		Love to --
annie		Oh don't be such guys --
annie		Hell, Max, wanta dance?
crash		I don't believe in fighting.
ebby		Pussy.
crash		Take the first shot at me.
ebby		I ain't hitting a man first.
crash		Hit me in the chest with this...
ebby		I'd kill ya.
crash		From what I hear you couldn't hit a bull in the ass with a slingshot
ebby		Don't try me.
crash		Throw it. C'mon, right in the chest.
ebby		No way.
crash		C'mon, Meat. You can't hit me 'cause you're starting to think about it already, you're starting to think how embarrassing it'll be to miss, how all these people would laugh.  C'mon, Rook -- show me that million dollar arm 'cause I'm getting a good idea about the five cent head --
crash		Ball four.
ebby		Who the fuck are you?!
crash		I'm Crash Davis. Your new catcher. And you just got Lesson Number One -- "Don't think -- it can only hurt the ballclub".  Buy ya a drink?
eckstein		 April in Paris, chestnuts in blossom, Holiday tables under the tree...
ebby		We fight, she gets the clown -- how's that happen?
crash		Shut up -- I like this song...  April in Paris, this is a feeling, No one can ever reprieve...
ebby		She's playing with my mind.
crash		It's a damn easy thing to play with.
annie		Well -- you boys stopped fighting yet? Are you pals now? Good. I love a little macho male bonding -- I think it's sweet even if it's probably latent homosexuality being "re- channeled" but I believe in "re- channeling" so who cares, right?  Shall we go to my place?
ebby		Which one of us?
annie		Oh both of you, of course...
annie		These are the ground rules.  So... I thought we should get to know each other.
crash		Why do you get to choose? Why don't I get to choose?
annie		Actually none of us on this planet ever really choose each other. It's all Quantum Physics and molecular attraction. There are laws we don't understand that bring us together and break us apart.
ebby		Is somebody gonna go to bed with somebody or what?
annie		You're a regular nuclear meltdown, honey -- slow down.
crash		After 12 years in the minor leagues, I don't tryout. Besides -- I don't believe in, Quantum Physics when it comes to matters of the heart... or loins.
annie		 What do you believe in?
crash		I believe in the soul, the cock, the pussy, the small of a woman's back, the hanging curve ball, high fiber, good scotch, long foreplay, show tunes, and that the novels of Thomas Pynchon are self-indulgent, overrated crap.  I believe that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, I believe that there oughtta be a constitutional amendment outlawing astro-turf and the designated hitter, I believe in the "sweet spot", voting every election, soft core pornography, chocolate chip cookies, opening your presents on Christmas morning rather than Christmas eve, and I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last for 7 days.
annie		 Don't leave...
crash		G'night.
ebby		Hey -- what's all this molecule stuff?
annie		Wait, Crash -- don't go -- all I want is a date. I'm not gonna fall in love with you or nothin'.
crash		I'm not interested in a woman who's interested in that boy.
annie		I'm not interested yet.
ebby		Who you calling a "boy"?
crash		See ya at the yard, Meat.
annie		No ballplayer ever said "no" to a date with me.
ebby		Well shit, then, let's fuck.
annie		Wait, honey, slow down -- I want to watch.
annie		No, no, no. Put it back on and take it off slowly.
ebby		Jesus, what kinda broad are you?
annie		When you know how to make love, you'll know how to pitch.  Shh. I love this part.
annie		Oh my -- what a nice back.
annie		No, no, honey... first the shoes and socks.
ebby		The socks? It's cold in here.
annie		 You think Dwight Gooden leaves his socks on?
annie		Ebby honey have you ever been handcuffed in bed?
ebby		Awright! I read about stuff like this. Bring it on!
annie		Sweetie, have you ever heard of Walt Whitman?
ebby		Who's he play for?
annie		Well, he sort of pitches for the Cosmic All-Stars.
ebby		Never heard of 'em.
annie		Good -- then listen.  "I sing the body electric. The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them -- "
ebby		We gonna fuck or what?
annie		Shh, shh...  "They will not let me off till I go with them, respond to them, and discorrupt them and charge them"
annie		"Limitless limpid jets of love hot and enormous -- quivering jelly of love, white blow and delirious juice --
jimmy		Listen up, guys, could I have your attention a minute?  I'm going to be leading a daily chapel service at three in the afternoons here in the locker room and you're all invited to drop by and worship before batting practice.
bobby		Jimmy, God damn it -- loosen up and get laid.
jimmy		I don't care If you think I'm square but I believe what I believe.
bobby		Jesus, Ebby, what truck ran over you?
ebby		 Call me "Nuke". Annie said it's my new nickname.
deke		Annie nailed you? That's great, means you're gonna have a helluva year. Does she fuck as good as they say?
ebby		We didn't do it, man -- she read poetry to me all night, I swear. It's more tiring than fucking.
ebby		-- of love"... hey, Crash, does that mean what I think it means? What's the deal here?
crash		Your shower shoes have fungus on 'em. You'll never get to the Bigs with fungus on your shower shoes.  Until you win twenty in the Show, however, it means you're a slob.
deke		This guy's bringing some serious smoke out there.
crash		He ain't got shit.
crash		You ain't getting that cheese by me, meat.
crash		Throw that shit again, meat. Throw that weak ass shit.  Now he's gotta try to slip the cheese by me. One and one. You're on top. Now bring me the gas --
crash		This son of a bitch throws hard.  Jesus, get outta the box you idiot, where's your head? Get the broad outta your head.
crash		Time out.
ump		Time out!
bat boy		Get a hit, Crash.
crash		Shut up.
crash		Awright, awright. You've seen all his pitches. Two and one. Relax. Wait. Quick bat. You can hit this shit --
crash		Shorten up. Bring the gas... Be quick -- be quick -- yeah, yeah...
deke		Serious heat, eh?
crash		He ain't got shit.
bat boy		From Annie.
crash		Read it.
bat boy		Dear Crash. You have a lovely swing but you're pulling your hips out too early. I'd be happy to meet you at the Batting Cage tomorrow to discuss it. Signed, Annie.
deke		Well if there's one chick'd know when you're pulling your hips out early, Annie's the one.
annie		 What'd he say?
jackson		It says... "I want to -- make... love to you. Crash".
annie		Oh my...
annie		See my hips?
crash		Yep.
annie		I think Thomas Pynchon's a genius.
crash		When you're hitting you shouldn't think about anything but hitting.  But you shouldn't think about it too much. The trick is to use your brain to not use your brain.
annie		But you were pulling your hips last night.
crash		So... Wanta make love?
annie		I'm committed to Nuke for the season. You had your chance the other night.
crash		What'you see in that guy -- he's dim, pretty boy. A young, wild...
annie		Young men are uncomplicated.  And he's not "dim". He's just inexperienced. My job is to give him "life-wisdom" and help him make it to the major leagues.
crash		That's my job too.
annie		Damn.
crash		You're pulling your hips out.
annie		But they're nice hips.  I looked up your records -- You've hit 227 home runs in the minors. That's great!
crash		Don't tell anybody.
annie		Why not? If you hit twenty homers this year you'll be the all time minor league champ! The record's...
crash		247 home runs in the minors would be a dubious honor, if ya think about it.
annie		Oh no, I think it'd be great! The Sporting News should know about it.
crash		No. Please.
annie		Damn.
crash		Let me.
crash		Your place or mine?
annie		Despite my love of weird metaphysics and my rejection of most Judao- Christian ethics, I am, within the framework of a baseball season, monogamous.
crash		Fact is you're afraid of meeting a guy like me 'cause it might be real so you sabotage it with some bullshit about commitment to a young boy you can boss around --  Or do you want a guy?
annie		Oh Crash... you do make speeches...
crash		 Well, Annie, your place or mine?
annie		You got me all confused.
crash		A batter has two tenths of a second to decide whether to swing --
annie		I'm not a real batter. I'm a woman.
little leaguer		Hey, when are you guys gonna start winning? You're terrible!
annie		It's a long season, boys.
nuke		Hey!  What're you guys doing here -- stealing my girl?
crash		Now, Nuke, would I do a thing like that?  Hey kids, this is the great Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh.
little leaguers		It's Nuke, it's Nuke! Can I have your autograph?! Etc.
nuke		No prob, kids --
crash		See you guys at the ballpark.
annie		Yes, yes, yesnmmmmyes...  Oh, that was just fabulous, Crash.
nuke		Crash?
nuke		You mean Nuke. You said "Crash".
annie		I didn't say "Crash". I said Nuke.
nuke		You said "Crash".
annie		Honey, don't ever listen to a woman when she's making love. They'll say the strangest things.
nuke		You said "Crash".
annie		Would you rather me be making love to him, using your name, or making love to you, using his name?
nuke		Yeah maybe you're right.
annie		You see how nice things are when we go slow?
nuke		Mmm, hmmm.  He likes baseball more than I do...
annie		You can learn to like it.
nuke		I wanted to be the host of Dance Fever, somethin' like that...
annie		Y'know if you make it to the Bigs you could still become the host of Dance Fever. Baseball's a good stepping stone for things like that.
nuke		God, I never thought of that.
annie		 There is a lot of things you never thought of, sweetie -- now get some rest for tonight's game.
nuke		Hello? Dad? This is Ebby.  Can I talk to Mom?
mayor		Welcome to the "Atlantic Seaboard Tobacco Growers City Council Little League Cash Drop Night"!
crash		Drive off your back leg. You pitch with your legs as much as your arms --
nuke		I thought I was --
crash		Don't think.
millie		Hi, I'm Millie.
bobby		I'm married.
bobby		What's that?
jose		Chicken bone cross take the curse off this bat and bring me hits.
bobby		You a God damn witch?
jose		Yes. A switch hitting witch. Very common in Puerto Rico.
bobby		Will that work for me?
jose		If you believe in Voodoo.
bobby		I'm 0 for 16! Gimme some of that shit.
jose		No, that is not belief. That is desperation.
bobby		C'mon, God damn it, gimme some!
mayor		...five, four, three, two, one... let 'er go! One thousand big ones!
crash		Don't try to strike everybody out.  Strikeouts are boring. They're Fascist. Throw some ground balls, it's more Democratic.
crash		And listen, meat. You don't know shit. If you want to get to the Show, you'll listen to me. She only wants you 'cause she can boss you around, got it?  And don't squeeze the ball so tight. It's an egg. Hold it like an egg.
nuke		Fun? What's he know about fun?  Why's he calling for a curveball? I wanta bring heat.
crash		Shake off the pitch. Throw what you wanta.
crash		Why you shaking me off?
nuke		I wanta throw the heater to announce my presence with authority.
crash		"To announce your fucking presence with authority"? This guy's a first ball fastball hitter. He's looking for heat.
nuke		But he ain't seen my heat --
crash		Awright, meat, give him your heat.
crash		Fastball.
nuke		Why's he always call me "Meat"? I'm the guy driving a Porsche.
crash		What're you lookin' at?! You're showing up my pitcher, bush -- get your ass in gear!
crash		Guy hit the shit outta that one, eh?
nuke		Well, I held it like an egg.
crash		An' he scrambled the son of a bitch.  Having fun yet?
nuke		I'm having a blast.  God, that sucker teed off on it just like he knew I was gonna throw a fastball.
crash		He did know.
nuke		How?
crash		I told him.
nuke		Don't think. Just throw. Don't think. Just throw.
nuke		God, that was beautiful. What'd I do?
annie		Oh dear... easy honey...
jackson		Ninety-five miles an hour...
nuke		Christ, Skip and Larry are talking about me. Don't get anybody warm in the pen yet. I'm okay. I'm having fun.
nuke		Don't yank me in the first, man.
nuke		Aw, shit.
skip		Relax.
nuke		Don't pull me, Skip. I'll settle down. I'm okay!
skip		 What kinda stuff's he got?
crash		I don't know. I haven't caught anything yet.
skip		What're you thinking about out here, Nuke?
nuke		I'm trying not to think.
skip		Good. But just 'cause you ain't s'posed to think don't mean you ain't s'posed to use your head.
crash		Have some fun, God damn it.
annie		Here we go again, Jackson, hold on tight...
skip		Anybody not outta the shower in ten seconds gonna get fined a hundred bucks. One, two...
skip		No press for five minutes, Whitey.
whitey		I'm doing a column on the Myth of Sisyphus as manifest in a minor league losing streak, Joe, and I thought...
skip		If I ever need a brain transplant I'll choose a sportswriter 'cause that way I'd be getting a brain that's never been used.
skip		What're you laughing at?!
skip		You guys lollygag the ball around the infield, ya lollygag you're way to first, ya lollygag in an' outta the dugout. You know what that makes ya  Lollygaggers. What's our record, Larry?
larry		We're eight and sixteen.
skip		Eight and sixteen?! How'd we ever win eight?  Jose, what's this sign?
jose		That's the steal.
skip		Wrong. That's the bunt. This is the steal.
skip		Face is "skin to skin". Skin starts with "S". "S" stands for steal if it follows the indicator which is hand to eye 'cause the word "indicator" starts with an "I" so I figure "eye" --  ya throw the ball, ya hit the ball, ya catch the ball.
bobby's wife		Bobby went hitless again. He's gonna be in a terrible mood... terrible. How'd Mickey do?
mickey's wife		He got two hits.
bobby's wife		Lucky you.
skip		We can't win at home -- how we gonna win on the road? We got a twelve day road trip starting tomorrow.  Bus leaves at six in the morning.
bobby		You wanted to see me?
skip		Yeah, Bobby, shut the door.  But the organization has decided to make a change --
bobby		Skip, I know I'm in a slump but I hit the ball hard tonight, right at 'em. A couple flares drop in, and I'm back in the groove!
bobby's wife		 There's Daddy! Wave to Daddy!
bobby's wife		Oh God...
annie		I want you to wear these on the road trip when you pitch.
nuke		What?
annie		They'll fit snugly against your balls in such a wonderful way that you'll start seeing things differently -- plus they'll remind you of me which is better than thinking about those nasty hitters.
nuke		Jesus, Annie, I don't know --
annie		You've been pitching out of the wrong side of your brain. These'll help move things to the right side.
nuke		Big League pitchers don't use these.
annie		They did when they were in the Carolina League.
annie		Men don't realize that women always know when they've been unfaithful.  The fact is, upon exact moment of penetration -- the woman knows.
annie		This sort of spiritual awareness can be a mixed blessing, especially if you're dating a ballplayer. I believe a woman oughta take care of her man so thoroughly that he can go on the road for a few days without having the desire to search out another pair of panties  I just hope the boys start winning soon. In some profound way I fear that a last place team is a reflection on its women...
skip		I got one word to say to you -- Shut up!
nuke		 Oh she may get wooly, women do get wooly, because of all the stress...
crash		 Gimme that.
crash		I hate people who get the words wrong. It ain't "woolly" it's "weary" and it nobody's got stress, they're wearing a dress.  Listen.
crash		 Oh she may be weary, Young girls do get weary, Wearing the same old dress...
nuke		How come you don't like me?
crash		'Cause you don't respect yourself, which is your problem, but you don't respect the game -- and that's my problem.  You got a gift.
nuke		What do I got?
crash		A gift. When you were a baby the gods reached down and turned your left arm into a thunderbolt.
crash		You got a Hall of Fame arm but you're pissing it away.
nuke		I ain't pissing nothing away -- I got a Porsche already. A 944 with A.C. and a quadraphonic Blaupunkt.
crash		You don't need a quadraphonic Blaupunkt -- you need a curve ball.  In the Show, everybody can hit the fastball.
nuke		You been in the Majors?
crash		Yep.
crash		I was in the Show for 21 days, once.  The ballparks are like cathedrals, the hotels all have room service, the women have long legs and brains -- it's a smorgasbord.
deke		The women are hot, eh?
crash		Yeah -- and so are the pitchers. They throw ungodly breaking stuff in the Show -- exploding sliders.
crash		You could be one of those guys -- but you don't give a fuck, Meat.
nuke		God damn it I'm sick of you calling me "Meat"! You wanta step outside!
crash		Yeah, let's go.
nuke		No. Wait a minute. Calm down, Crash...
nuke		Teach me how to throw a breaking ball.
crash		As I was saying ya hold it like an egg.
teddy		 ...double off the wall by Higgins, and once again the Durham pitchers are unable to get the first out of the inning...
teddy		 Line drive to center -- a diving stab by McFee -- ohhhh!  Ball gets by his glove, another run in and the crowd loves it --
teddy		 Base hit centerfield off LaLoosh...
teddy		 That closes the book on LaLoosh today, 5 earned runs, 5 hits, 5 strikeouts, 5 walks, 5 wild pitches...
teddy		 Where are the great Bull players of yesteryear? Where are the Footsie Blakes, the Digger O'Dells, the Gus Palowitzes?
teddy		 Is the modern athlete a pale imitation of the great old warriors? Only Crash Davis stands out this year, begging the question, "What are these boys thinking about, 'cause it sure ain't baseball".
tony		Ice skaters. God. Look't em. that's what we need, y'know -- one night with some skaters and we can get back on track...
deke		We need a night off just to stop our losing streak. We need a rainout.
crash		I can get us a rainout.
mickey		It's 90 degrees, there ain't been a cloud in the sky in weeks.
crash		Hundred bucks says I can get us a rainout tomorrow.
tony		You're on.
deke		Par--ty! I blew a whole day's meal money for this champagne seven dollars, man, it better be good.
mickey		For seven bucks it better be some serious shit.
tommy		What time is it, eh? When are they coming?
nuke		This is from Tony for the rainout. C'mon, man, let's go to the party.
crash		Naw...
nuke		"Naw"? There's ice skaters coming! You ever made love to an ice skater?
crash		By the dozen. Holiday on Ice, Ice Capades, Ice Follies --  I'm through with one night stands.
nuke		You're through with one night stands?! What do you want?
crash		I just wanta play everyday despite small nagging injuries -- and go home to a woman who appreciates how full of crap I truly am.
nuke		You're weird, man -- I want a ice skater real bad.
crash		Go for it.
nuke		If I get laid, you won't tell Annie?
crash		I won't have to.
deke		It's them, it's them! Be casual.  Come in!
nuke		Hey, guys, pa--rty!
tommy		Shut up and be cool, man. Like Mickey there...
mickey		You wanta make it to the Show, Rock, you gotta learn how to "lounge".
nuke		How's this?
mickey		You got it.
tommy		Entre.
mickey's wife		Do you think your husband plays around on the road trips?
deke's wife		No way. Well... God... do we have to talk about that?
mickey's wife		I guess not... it's just that once I asked Mickey if he was faithful to me on the road trips and he said "in his heart he was faithful".  What the hell does that mean?
deke's wife		It means he's unfaithful -- but only a man would put it in those words.
skip		I just got one word to say to everybody -- shut up!
skip		Nuke -- get everybody in here. Hundred dollar fine anybody's not here in five.
nuke		Hundred dollar fine if you're not in #401 in five.
jose		Hundred dollars?!
tony		Christ. Sorry ladies...
naked lady		Go to hell! You're in last place anyway!
nuke		Crash! Skip wants everybody in #401 for a team meeting. Hundred buck fine if ya don't show!
crash		Party without me.
nuke		God -- what a Big League move.
skip		Who are you?
skip		No. I want you to hear my philosophy. It'll do you some good  Here it is. This is a simple game. You throw the ball, you hit the ball, you catch the ball. You got that?!
skip		Are you lovely creatures aware that you are about to compromise yourselves with a buncha bums who are --  -- what are we?
larry		Eight and twenty-four.
skip		Eight and twenty-four! How'd we ever win 8 games?
larry		It's a miracle.
skip		Look, guys -- I'm a man, I got needs too.  I understand this party -- but...  Where's Crash?
nuke		He can't make it. Here's his fine.
skip		Aw Christ, he don't have to come.
tommy		Don't you think that's a double standard -- we're here and he ain't?
skip		I believe in a double standard for guys hitting .350.  But... if this club don't start winning soon, there's gonna be changes made!
deke's wife		 Pass the Pampers, please.
crash		Helluva guy --
nuke		Can I ask you something?
crash		What?
nuke		What would you think of a pitcher who wore women's panties?
crash		If he had a good breaking ball, I'd respect the shit outta him.
nuke		No!
crash		Wake up, it's okay... you're dreaming...
nuke		I was playing naked.
crash		I know, I know -- I have that dream all the time. We're almost home.
nuke		God I'm tired. What a trip I was lousy. I was worse than lousy. Everytime I pitched -- it was like throwing gasoline on a fire. Kaboom. I --
annie		What is this "I, I, I" stuff? You only talk about yourself? Aren't you glad to see me? Don't I look nice?
nuke		Sorry. You look great. I'm totally exhausted.
annie		Good. Total exhaustion can be spiritually fabulous.  Let's play catch.
nuke		Catch?
jackson		Hum, babe, hum, babe, fire it in here, hum babe--
annie		That's not necessary, Jackson --  Okay, Nuke, now lean in for the sign.
nuke		This in ridiculous. I'm a pro.
annie		Just do what I say. Now, which nostril are you breathing through?
nuke		Which nostril am I breathing through?
annie		The right nostril. Good.
nuke		My right nostril?
annie		There are two important psychic conduits called the "pingala" and the "ida". The pingala starts with the left testicle  and ends at the right nostril.
annie		The ida originates at the right testicle  and terminates at the left nostril.
nuke		I'm really beat. I need some serious "z's" --
annie		The pingala is the nostril used for throwing a baseball.  And if you discover before a game you're in the wrong nostril, it's easy to switch.
nuke		Switch nostrils?
annie		Right. Okay, fire a couple in there.
annie		You're patronizing me! I will not be patronized --
nuke		If I throw too hard I'll hurt the kid.
annie		He's handled a lotta pitchers whose records were better than one and six.
nuke		 How was that?
annie		A little better.
nuke		Gimme the God damn ball!
nuke		 How ya like that?
annie		Much better. Your delivery was fully integrated because you weren't thinking about it 'cause you were pissed off at me.  This is progress.
nuke		I give up. Let's go inside, make love, and fall asleep till it's time to go to the ballpark.
annie		Or...  C'mon, Jackson, I've got some lemonade!
nuke		I can't keep up with you. First you say sex is gonna make me a better pitcher -- now no sex is gonna do it?!
annie		It's all the same thing.
nuke		What's that?!
annie		 That's Max. His ashes anyway. He left no kin...
nuke		God... I think I'm gonna be sick --
annie		Oh don't be silly. Death is nothing to be scared of. It's just another way of living. It's just a fresh start -- kinda like spring training.
nuke		Death is like spring training?
annie		Yes. And so is birth. Now look me in the eyes, Nuke --  You haven't been wearing my panties, have you?
crash		Hot. Very hot...
nuke		Annie says her panties will keep one side of my brain occupied while I'm on the mound, thus keeping my brain slightly off center, which is where it should be for artists and pitchers. She also said I should throw whatever pitches you call for.
crash		Annie's a smart lady.
deke		Hey, fruit alert! Check out the Rook.
nuke		Annie says there's no such thing as straight and gay. We're all sexual creatures to start with, and we get formed into certain roles.
tommy		You believe that?
nuke		When I'm one and six I'll believe anything.  Annie also says that God is a woman. You believe that, Crash, you think God's a lady?
crash		God's definitely a woman -- but she's no lady.
tommy		This is all Commie bullshit.  God has a dick, man.
tony		God damn it, Jimmy, you're an expert -- does God have a dick or a pussy?
jimmy		The Lord God is tri-une -- Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
tommy		Father and Son. Awright!
mickey		 Yeah, but He is a brother.
tommy		Bullshit! God ain't no brother!
deke		If there is a God, why am I hitting .200?
skip		Shut up! This is a damn noisy clubhouse for a team that's lost 15 straight.
skip		Patkin was a tribute to baseball...
larry		...and one helluva guy.
gospel singer		 I come to the garden alone, When the dew is still on the roses, And the voice I hear, whispering in my ear,. The Son of God discloses --
nuke		God, these panties feel great. That don't make me queer, right? Right. Whoo.  Breaking ball.
nuke		I ain't queer. I know I ain't...  Fastball.
jackson		Ninety-three miles an hour.
annie		He looks wonderful, Jackson...
nuke		Fastball again? Why's he want the heat -- I just threw heat. Don't think, Meat -- give 'em the gas.
skip		Jesus -- what's got into Nuke?
larry		I heard he's wearing women's underwear -- and he's breathing through his pingala nostril.
skip		 I'm getting too old for this game.
nuke		God, Annie's got a great ass... How come her panties fit me? That's one of the mysteries of sex I guess...
nuke		I was great, eh?
crash		Your fastball was up and your curveball was hanging -- in the Show they woulda ripped you.
nuke		Can't you let me enjoy the moment?
crash		The moment's over.  If this guy starts me off with a breaking ball, I'm going downtown --
crash		I dare you to throw me the hammer -- you ain't that stupid...
crash		Breaking ball -- you fool!
annie		Oh my...
nuke		Hey, I'm cruisin', man -- what're you doing out here?!
crash		I want you to throw this one at the bat rack.
nuke		Why?! I'm finally throwin' the damn thing where I want to.
crash		It'll keep the fear of God in the hitters. Trust me.
nuke		You're the boss.
batter		This guy's crazy.
crash		Yep. Next one might be at your head. Hell if I know where the damn thing's going...
nuke		Bear down, Meat, don't let up. You own these guys. Dad'll love a shutout...
nuke		No, no -- this guy's looking for heat -- lemme give him the deuce --
annie		Oh no -- he's shaking off the sign, Jackson. Big mistake...
jackson		He'll learn.
crash		This son of a bitch is throwing a two hit shutout and he's shaking me off?!  Hey Charlie, here comes the deuce.
nuke		You told him I was throwing a deuce, right?
crash		Yep. He really crushed that dinger, didn't he. Musta gone 450 feet... damn...
annie		I'm yours.
nuke		Y'know, Annie, I been thinking if it works for one game, maybe it'll work for a whole buncha games.
annie		Breathing through your pingala always works, honey --
nuke		Not that. I mean the re-channeling of my sexual energy.  Maybe we shouldn't make love for awhile.
annie		Now don't go overboard, I look incredibly hot, right?
nuke		You know what it feels like to throw a three hitter?  We better not fuck.
annie		Nuke?!
nuke		Just till I lose.
annie		Get over here.
nuke		No.
annie		Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh --
nuke		I love winning, Crash, you hear me? I love it. Teach me everything.
crash		It's time you started working on your interviews.
nuke		What do I gotta do?
crash		Learn your clichs. Study them. Know them. They're your friends.
crash		Write this down.  "We gotta play 'em one day at a time."
nuke		Boring.
crash		Of course. That's the point.  "I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub."
nuke		Jesus.
crash		Write, write -- "I just wanta give It my best shot and, Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
nuke		"...Good Lord willing, things'll work out."
crash		Yep. So how's Annie?
nuke		She's getting steamed 'cause I'm still re-channeling my sexual energy -- maybe I should cave in and sleep with her once just to calm her down. What'ya think?
crash		You outta your mind? If you give in now you might start losing.  Never fuck with a winning streak.
millie		Hi, Jimmy. Want a ride?
jimmy		 Have you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal savior?
millie		No.
jimmy		Can I give you my testimony?
millie		You can do anything you want.  Hop in.
annie		I'm so proud of you and all the guys. Want some more soup?
nuke		No, no, it was great.
annie		How 'bout a back rub?
nuke		No, that's okay. All I need's a little nap.
annie		I'll tuck you in.
nuke		 You can't seduce me.
annie		I'm not gonna try to seduce you, sweetie...
nuke		What's that?
annie		That's my leg.
nuke		I know what it is.
annie		I figure we could work on some fundamentals even if we don't make love.
nuke		Fundamentals?
annie		Sure.  Unsnap my stockings.
nuke		Crash once called a woman's, uh -- pussy -- y'know how the hair kinda makes a "V" shape? --
annie		Yes I do...
nuke		Well -- he calls it the Bermuda Triangle. He said a man can get lost in there and never be heard from again.
annie		What a nasty thing to say.
nuke		He didn't mean it nasty. He said that gettin' lost and disappearing from the face of the earth was sometimes a good thing to do -- especially like that.
annie		Oh...  Crash is a very smart man. Now c'mon, honey, give it a try.
annie		Watch... one hand --
nuke		oh.
annie		Now you try.
annie		 Mmmmmmm... oh yes...
nuke		No! You're playing with my mind!
annie		I'm trying to play with your body!
nuke		I knew it -- you're seducing me!
annie		Of course I'm seducing you for Godsakes, and I'm doing a damn poor job of it --  Aren't I pretty?
nuke		I think you're real cute.
annie		Cute?! I hate cute! Baby ducks are cute! I wanta be exotic and mysterious!
nuke		You're exotic and mysterious and cute -- that's why I better leave.
annie		Nuke! You got things all wrong! There's no relation between sex and baseball. Ask Crash.
nuke		I did.
annie		What'd he say?
nuke		He said if I gave in to you I'd start losing again.
annie		He did?
nuke		I'll be back when we lose.
crash		Come in.
annie		Crash... I want you.
crash		Nuke won't go to bed with you, eh?
annie		He's confused --
crash		Aren't we all?
annie		Don't you think I'm pretty?
crash		You're gorgeous, God damn it! From the moment I first saw you I knew I had to have you. I had to have you!
annie		I want to be had.
crash		I think of you and the "boy" all the time.
annie		He won't make love to me anymore.
crash		And he's right! A ballplayer on a streak has to respect the streak. They don't happen very often.  And I still think Thomas Pynchon is full of shit.
annie		I want you desperately!
crash		Who are you? Do you have a job?
annie		I teach part time at the Junior College. What if I told you I was through with Nuke? He learned his lessons quickly and left me.
crash		And now you wanta teach me?
annie		I don't imagine there's much I could teach you.
crash		I doubt that.
annie		Crash, I get wet just thinking about you.
crash		I thought you wanted an "uncomplicated" boy?
annie		I'm ready for a complicated man.
crash		-- and as soon as we lose a game, he'll be back in your arms.
annie		I said when I think about you, I get wet.
crash		Annie, I think you should leave.
annie		God damn you -- what is happening? Is there no man who'll have me?  This is the weirdest season I ever saw -- the Durham Bulls can't lose and I can't get laid!
crash		 You okay?
annie		 I need a drink.
crash		Why baseball?
annie		 I was raised in a Baptist church got dipped in the water when I was 5 -- born again before kindergarten... by the time I was 10 I knew it was bullshit and at 15 I ran away from home...
annie		pregnant, had an abortion, got pregnant again, had an abortion again... gave up men. Tried women. Missed men. My mother died.  And after we'd sung some hymns in some wretched Florida funeral home, I went outside and something happened --
annie		The smell of cut grass in the warm March air overwhelmed me and I heard a noise --  -- tok, tok, tok -- and some men shouting... then tok, tok, tok.
annie		I crossed the street -- it was the New York Yankees spring training field -- tok, tok, tok, was the sound of a ball hitting a bat -- and I sat in the warm bleachers to think about my mother...  And I saw him.
crash		Who?
annie		Thurman Munson.  So I stayed in the bleachers all spring and gradually came to understand what's so great about baseball.
crash		What's so great about baseball?
annie		If you know where home plate is, then you know where 1st base is, and 2nd, and everything else -- 'cause they're always in the same place in relation to home.  Don't you see? If you know where home plate is, then you know where everything else in the universe is!
crash		I don't know if I'd go that far.
annie		It's true, It's true!  Least it used to be true. It ain't possible that baseball's not enough anymore, is it, Crash?
crash		It's possible.
annie		No.
crash		Are you gonna be waking up next to 20 year old ballplayers when you're 60?
annie		Well... I used to think that wasn't the worst thing in the world to look forward to. Lately I'm not so sure.
crash		Why not?
annie		 Whatta you mean "why not"? Are you gonna play forever?!
millie		Annie, Annie! There she is -- we've been looking all over for ya. Hi Crash.
millie		Well tell 'em, honey.
jimmy		 We're getting married.
annie		Omigawd, honey, I'm so happy for you.
millie		He's a virgin.
jimmy		Well, yeah...  I guess that probably seems pretty corny to people like you.
annie		Oh Jimmy, honey, I think it sounds wonderful!
millie		Annie, will you be the bride's maid?
skip		Nuke's overthrowing tonight, he don't look loose. Anything bothering him?
larry		He said his chakras were jammed and he was breathing out of the wrong nostril.
skip		 Okay...
crash		What's wrong?
nuke		I'm nervous -- my old man's here.
crash		Hey, he's just your father, man -- he's as full of shit as anybody.
deke		What the hell's going on?
tommy		You breathing through the wrong fucking nostril again?
deke		Hey, you guys hear Jimmy and Millie are engaged?! Wait'll I tell him she's gone down on half the Carolina League --
crash		 Anybody says anything bad about Millie, I'll break his neck.
nuke		Hey, guys, I got a game to pitch.
jose		Don't throw anything to me -- my girlfriend put a curse on my glove.
nuke		I'll take the curse off the son of a bitch!
jose		Then you got to cut the head off a live rooster.
nuke		Shit.
mickey		Don't worry, man, this umpire's a God damn racist.
skip		What the hell's going on out there?
larry		It's a damn convention.
skip		Check it out.
larry		What the hell's going on out here?
crash		Nuke's scared cause his nostrils are jammed and his old man's here, we need a live rooster to take the curse off Jose's glove, and nobody knows what to get Jimmy and Millie for their wedding present -- there's a whole lotta shit we're trying to deal with --
larry		Oh. I thought there was a problem.
millie		You should be at the game.
annie		No, no -- I'm fine. Millie, how much time did you and Jimmy spend together before he proposed?
millie		Five hours. We both just know.  Do you think I deserve to wear white?
annie		We all deserve to wear white.
crash		I got him on the knee!
umpire		You missed him!
crash		God damn It, Jack, he still ain't touched the plate.
umpire		Don't bump me.
crash		It was a cocksucking call!
umpire		Did you call me a cocksucker?
crash		No! I said It was a cock-sucking call and you can't run me for that!
umpire		You missed the tag!
crash		You spit on me!
umpire		I didn't spit on you!
crash		You're in the wrong business, Jack -- you're Sears-Roebuck material!
umpire		You're close, Crash, you want me to run you? I'll run you!
crash		You want me to call you a cocksucker?!
umpire		Try it! Go ahead. Call me a cocksucker!
crash		Beg me!
umpire		Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
crash		Beg me again!
umpire		Call me a cocksucker and you're outta here!
crash		You're a cocksucker!
umpire		You're outta here!
millie		Crash musta called the guy a cocksucker
annie		God, he's so romantic...
annie		When Crash got throwed out, the game got out of hand...  ...Jose made three errors with his cursed mitt...
annie		Nuke never quite got in the groove though he didn't pitch bad...
annie		...and the winning streak came to an end with a 3-2 loss...  The good news was that a man was about to come calling... the bad news was -- it was the wrong guy.
nuke's voice		Annie! You gotta be in there -- I can hear that crazy Mexican singer!
nuke		We lost.
annie		It's okay...
nuke		I'd like you to meet my father.
annie		 Oh -- won't YOU come in?
nuke's father		Ebby's told me a lot about you.
annie		Uh oh...  Can I offer you some coffee?
nuke's father		Yeah... Ebby tells me you're a very spiritual woman. He tells me you've taught him a lot about discipline and self-control.
annie		He's a good student.
nuke's father		We were worried that Ebby might get involved with the wrong crowd in professional baseball -- we're so pleased, he met a Christian woman.
annie		Praise the Lord, eh?
annie		Oh my -- I better fix that. Ebby will you help me? I'm no good with mechanical things
nuke		I couldn't dump my old man but maybe later I can sneak away from him...
annie		You don't have to...
nuke		I'm starting to understand what you're teaching me. I mean the panties and the nostrils and all that shit... I mean I'm getting it --
annie		So am I. Nuke, honey, we need to talk --
nuke		Aw hell, let's have a quickie right here --
annie		-- but you're father's in there!
nuke		Crash says I gotta quit worrying about him -- c'mon, honey, we got a lotta catching up to do --
annie		Nuke -- we do need to talk!
annie		 Hello? Skip? Yeah, as a matter of fact, he is here.
annie		It's Skip, for you.
nuke		I'm going to the Show.  They're sending me up to finish out the season with the Big Club. I'm going to the Show!
nuke's father		Let's have a quick word of prayer, right here, to thank the Lord for all this --
annie		Oh let's not...
nuke		I gotta leave first thing in the morning.
annie		That's great!
nuke		How can I possibly thank you?
annie		Just pitch well and do good.
nuke		I will, I will -- C'mon, Dad, I'll dump you off. I gotta find Crash.
nuke's father		God bless you.
annie		 She will, Mr. LaLoosh, she will...
tony		Crash ain't there. He never gets back till four or five --
nuke		Where does he go?
tony		Well, I'd rather not say.
nuke		They called me up to the Show and I wanta tell Crash goodbye.
tony		Goddamn, that's great! Jesus!  Most nights he goes down to, you know, down to Niggertown. To Sandy's... the whorehouse.
nuke		He goes to a whorehouse every night?
tony		Don't tell him I told you -- he'd break my neck.
black cabbie		That's Sandy's. Keep your extra cash In your shoes.
sandy		What'you want, kid?
nuke		I'm looking for somebody.
sandy		Who ain't?
nuke		Looking for Crash Davis.
sandy		Ain't here.
nuke		I'm Nuke LaLoosh. With the Bulls.
sandy		 Your breaking ball's getting better but ya need a change up.
crash		 But when she does get weary -- Try a little tenderness...
crash		 While she's there waiting -- Try a little tenderness...
nuke		Crash. I'm going to the Show.
nuke		Club's expanding its roster to finish the season --
crash		Shut up. I'm playing.  But it's all so easy -- Just try a little tenderness...
nuke		I'm going to the Show.
crash		Then go.
nuke		I'm trying to thank you.
crash		Let go of me!
sandy		He makin' trouble for you, Mr. Davis?
crash		No, no, Sandy, put it down.  Nuke, you know Sandy Grimes? Hit
crash		He hit .371 -- C'mon, Nuke -- you and me, let's step outside and settle this.
nuke		Settle what?
crash		C'mon!
nuke		I don't wanta fight you, I wanta thank you. Let's have a drink and forget this --
crash		God damn it, you fucking virgin prick -- step outside.
nuke		C'mon, we got nothin' to fight about.
crash		You fuck!
nuke		Why am I a fuck?
crash		Why are you a fuck?  All my limbs put together are worth 7 cents a pound -- and that's for science and dog meat.
nuke		You're a great catcher.
crash		Come over here into the light so I can kick your ass.
nuke		No.
crash		Okay, I'll kick your ass there.
crash		...God damn... I forgot my fucking shoes. Honey, go get my shoes.
nuke		I'll take you back to the hotel.
crash		 Twenty-five hits a year in 500 at bats is 50 points. Okay? There's 6 months in a season, that's about 25 weeks -- you get one extra flare a week -- just one -- a gork, a ground ball with eyes, a dying quail -- just one more dying quail a week and you're in Yankee Stadium!
nuke		Forget it. You ain't worth thanking --
crash		Come on, Meat...
crash		Nuke... tell me something. Did you hit me with your right or your left?
nuke		My right.
crash		Good. Good. That's terrific...
nuke		What?
crash		If ya get in a fight with some asshole, never hit his with your pitching hand. Ya might get injured.  That's another lesson for ya -- now quit fucking around and help me up.
nuke		Ya look like shit.
crash		Sorry about last night.
nuke		Forget it.
crash		I have been known, on occasion, to howl at the moon. D'you understand that?
nuke		No.
crash		You will.  You gotta play this game with fear and arrogance.
nuke		Fear and ignorance.
crash		 No. Fear and arrogance, you, hayseed, not ignorance!
nuke		 I know. I just like to see you get all worked up.
nuke		 She's just waiting for you to show up, y'know...
crash		I don't need a crazy woman in my life.
nuke		Maybe you do.  Y'know I'm starting to like this game -- baseball's a helluva good way to make a living.
crash		It's the best, Nuke... the absolute fucking best.
nuke		Yeah, thanks for everything.
crash		Nuke --  Good luck.
nuke		You too... Meat.
annie		Well I guess this is it.
nuke		 I won't be needing these anymore.
annie		Neither will I.
nuke		I think I'm ready for the Show.
annie		Ebby Calvin Nuke LaLoosh -- don't think too much.
nuke		Don't worry.
nuke		I gotta go now, Dad.
father		I was thinking I could fly up and spend a week in the Big Leagues with you -- help you get comfortable.
nuke		No. If I screw up, I wanta do it alone. I'll call.
father		We'll be praying for you.
nuke		Dad -- if my curveball is hanging, God ain't gonna help me.
father		We'll pray anyway.
nuke		 If it makes you and mom feel better, go for it. I gotta run --
jimmy		I wanta thank everybody and the Lord for the victory, it's a wonderful way to celebrate my marriage -- and I guess we're all back on a winning streak, he? A few raucous "Fuckin A's" from the team.
tony		Hey, Jimmy -- we chipped in and kind got a little gift for ya of a special wedding cake from the Durham Bulls.
clubhouse boy		Hey, Crash -- Skip wants to see ya.
crash		Yeah, Skip, you wanted to see me?
skip		Crash, shut the door.
skip		 This is the toughest job a manager has...
skip		The organization wants to make a change... now that Nuke's gone they wanta bring up some young catcher...
larry		Some kid hittin' .300 in Lynchburg... probably a bust.
skip		I put in a word for you with the organization -- told 'em I thought you'd make a fine minor league manager someday... Might be an opening at Salem next year --
skip		Helluva year, Crash -- you know how it is.
crash		I got released.
annie		I heard already.
annie		Oh my...
annie		...so you see in a former lifetime I'm sure that I was Alexandria, the Czarette of Russia? What do you think?
crash		How come in former lifetimes, everybody was someone famous?  How come nobody ever says they were Joe Schmo?
annie		It doesn't work like that.  God, you're gorgeous. Want to dance?
annie		...mouth, tongue, lips, teeth, roof of the mouth, jaws, and the jaw hinges...
crash		...wrist and wrist joints, hand, palm, knuckles, thumb, fore-finger, finger-joints, finger-nail...
nuke		 Y'know, I'm just happy to be here and hope I can help the ballclub. I just want to give it my best shot and good Lord willing, things'll work out... gotta play 'em one day at a time, Y'know...
crash		 C'mon, Meat, throw me that weak ass shit -- c'mon, bring the heat, bring it, bring it...
catcher		Get your ass in gear...
annie		Oh my...
annie		What happened?
crash		I quit. Hit my dinger and hung 'em up.
annie		I'm quitting too. Boys, not baseball.
crash		There might be an opening for a manager at Salem next spring.
annie		Salem, Massachusetts? Where all the witches were?
crash		Yeah... you a witch?
annie		Not yet. It takes years of practice...
crash		You think I could make it to the Show as a manager?
annie		You'd be great, just great...  'Cause you understand non-linear thinking even though it seems like baseball is a linear game 'cause of the lines and the box scores an' all -- but the fact is that there's a spacious-"non-time kind of time" to it...
crash		 Annie --
annie		What?
crash		I got a lotta time to hear your theories and I wanta hear every damn one of 'em... but right now I'm tired and I don't wanta think about baseball and I don't wanta think about Quantum Physics... I don't wanta think about nothing...  I just wanta be.
annie		I can do that, too.
annie		Walt Whitman once said -- "I see great things in baseball. It's our game -- the American game  You could look it up....
****Dialogues from script :Buried.txt****

paul		What...? What is this? His words become almost unintelligible as he flails about, though fear is understood in his every utterance. He screams aloud, but his voice is captured by the coffin walls.
paul		Oh my God! Help me!! Help me!! He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks. Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines of the coffin is stifling.  PAUL  Somebody help me! Please!! Paul continues with his futile efforts to pry off the top of the coffin. The sides, the top, the bottom -- all are too thoroughly reinforced by the force of what surrounds the coffin. Sand. It becomes clear to him that he is buried. He tries his best to calm himself, though he has trouble catching his breath. It takes him some time, but he eventually achieves some semblance of calm. Getting a good look at him for the first time, we see that Paul is somewhere around 37 years old. Unshaven and physically unremarkable, he embodies the blue-collar American everyman. He coughs. The minimal amount of oxygen in the coffin makes it hard for him to breathe. His eyes widen a bit upon seeing an exposed, rusty nail. He tries desperately to use the nail to cut through the old, frayed ropes that bind his hands. Doing so is no easy task. The incredibly tight quarters makes his every action nearly impossible. After a lengthy struggle, the rope snaps. Paul quickly frees his hands. A small victory. Very small. The heat is unbearable. Paul takes off his button-down shirt, leaving him in a T-shirt. His body battles against the walls and the ceiling of the coffin with every move he makes. He tosses his button-down shirt down by his feet. His undershirt is drenched through with sweat. Still trying to calm himself, but having little success in doing so, Paul looks around the coffin. His feet, though only his body-length away, seem miles from him. 
paul		No! Wait! Paul accidentally bangs the cap of the Zippo against the coffin wall, putting out the flame. She quickly returns.
paul		Hello?
paul		I'm buried. You have to help me. You have to help me, I can't breathe...
paul		I'm buried in a coffin. Please help me! Send someone to find me...
paul		Paul. Paul Conroy.
paul		I don't know. I'm in a coffin. I don't know where. I'm scared. Please help me.
paul		Yeah, it's, like, one of those old, wooden ones.
paul		No. I don't know. No.
paul		What?
paul		A cell phone. There was an old cell phone in the coffin.
paul		Yes. No. It's not mine, but yes, I'm calling from a cell phone.
paul		I didn't climb in.
paul		I was put here.
paul		Yes. Please send help.
paul		I think so. It's...it's hot in here. I can't breathe.
paul		I told you, I don't know. Somewhere in Iraq.
paul		Yes. I'm a truck driver, an American. I work for CRT.
paul		No. Please, please listen to me. I'm a truck driver. I work for CRT. I'm a civilian contractor working in Iraq. We were attacked in Baqubah, they...they...
paul		All of the other drivers.
paul		Yes. Please, you have to help me. They gave me a safety number to call, but I had it stored in my wallet and --
paul		Ohio?
paul		Sheriff's Department? No...you don't underst...
paul		Come on, come on. Pick up. Please. After sitting through the agony of a few more rings, Paul is met with the answering machine.
shane		Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. Thanks. At the sound of the Beep, Paul leaves a frenzied, rambling message.
paul		Linda, honey, it's me. Listen, I need you to contact the National Guard right away. Or the Pentagon. Tell them we were attacked in the Diyala Provence, in Baqubah.
linda		Hi, this is Linda. Please leave a message. Thanks and have a great day. The Beep sounds and Paul immediately tears into his voice message.
paul		Linda, it's Paul. I need you to call me right away. This is an absolute emergency. Call the number that comes up on your phone. Call me at that number. If I don't answer, call the Pentagon or the F.B.I. I don't know what the hell is going on, but I'm buried in a box... Hearing himself say those last words gives him pause. The gravity of the situation fully takes hold.  PAUL  ...I can't breathe in here. Make sure you call me right away. Please, baby, please call me.
paul		Um...I don't know. The F.B.I., wherever they are. Paul reaches for his button-down shirt. Fishes for pens stashed in his lapel pocket, while keeping the phone pressed to his ear with his shoulder.
paul		I don't care, any city. Just connect me to the F.B.I.
paul		Anywhere! Any city, just connect me, please!
paul		Fine, um...Chicago. Okay?
automated message		The number you requested, 312-421-
paul		Hello? Is this the F.B.I.?
paul		I'm calling from Iraq. I'm buried in the desert somewhere. I need you to help me --
paul		Now. I'm there now. I'm a truck driver for CRT. I've been here for nine months.
paul		Paul Conroy.
paul		Alright. Me and a convoy of other drivers were delivering kitchen parts to a community center. As we got closer, a bunch of kids started throwing rocks at our trucks. Then an IED went off up ahead and blew up one of the other trucks. These guys came out from behind the houses with guns and started shooting everybody right there on the street.
paul		I don't know!  I don't know. I was way in the back of the convoy. I must have got hit in the head with one of the rocks and got knocked out. That's the last thing I remember. But now I just woke up, and I was tied up and buried in a coffin.
paul		I guess whoever ambushed us.
paul		No, you're not listening. The kids threw the rocks at us, but then some Iraqi guys -- maybe insurgents, I don't fucking know -- popped out of nowhere and started shooting at us.
paul		They didn't, I don't know! But they shot them!
paul		I'm shouting because you're not listening! I need you to help me! Please!!
paul		Can you trace my call? GPS or something?
paul		I have no idea. They didn't, that's all I know.
paul		Why? Who cares? I'm buried in the middle of the fucking desert! Who cares what my social security number is?! I'm an American citizen. Just send someone to find me!
paul		Hello? What? I can't hear you.
paul		Hello?! Hello?! Paul checks the phone's display, where he sees that the call has been lost.
crt operator		Thank you for calling Crestin, Roland and Thomas. How may I direct your call?
paul		Somebody, I need to talk to someone right away. It's an emergency.
crt operator		Who is this, please?
paul		Paul Conroy. I'm a driver for you guys. I'm calling from Iraq. My convoy was attacked.
crt operator		Sir, if this is a crisis situation you need to contact the Safety Number your were provided.
paul		I know, I know, but I don't have it. They took it.
crt operator		Who took it, sir?
paul		The Iraqis, I think. I don't remember, I blacked out.
crt operator		I'm going to put you through to Alan Davenport.
paul		Davenport? Who's that?
crt operator		Director of Personnel. Please hold.
paul		Personnel? No, I need to talk -- Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded testimonial during the on-hold message.
crt spokesman		At CRT, we work with our clients to provide effective and sustainable solutions to the challenges they face in our fast-growing, global economy. As the premiere...
alan davenport		You've reached Alan Davenport, personnel director at Crestin, Roland and Thomas. Please leave your name and number at the tone and I will return your call as soon as possible. The BEEP sounds. Paul is confused as to why he was patched through to someone in human resources, but leaves a message nevertheless.
paul		This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed...by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't...please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call.  I...
paul		Hello? Hello? Is anyone there? Hello? After a beat, Paul hears breathing on the other end of the phone. He also hears a discordance of background sound; the din of a room filled with Arabic-speaking men.
jabir		Breathe no breathe, American? Ah? Breathe no breathe?
paul		What? I don't know what you're saying. Who is this?
jabir		American can breathe no breathe?
paul		No, I can't breathe. Please get me out of here.
jabir		Get out?
paul		Yes, please get me out. Help me.
jabir		Soldier.
paul		No, no I'm not a soldier. I'm a truck driver. That's it. I'm not a soldier. I'm a contractor.
jabir		Contractor?
paul		Yes, that's right. A contractor. Not a soldier.
jabir		Blackwater.
paul		No, not for Blackwater. I'm not a security contractor. Truck driver, I'm a truck driver. That's all.
jabir		You are American.
paul		Yes.
jabir		Then you are soldier. Despair falls upon Paul. It becomes clear that Jabir is responsible for all of this. As such, Paul crosses out the word "HELP?" Closes the lid of the Zippo, leaving only the cell phone display screen to illuminate his face.
paul		No, I'm not. I'm here unarmed. But, you still shot at us.
jabir		In head and in throat, so you tell no more lies.
paul		I'm not lying! We were all drivers.
jabir		Drive what?
paul		Trucks. The big trucks you see driving around with the supplies? That's us. That's me. We're not soldiers.
jabir		Five million money.
paul		What?
jabir		Five million money tonight by nine PM or you stay. Buried like dog.
paul		Five million dollars? From who?
jabir		Your family.
paul		My family doesn't have five million dollars. If they did, I wouldn't be here.
jabir		From Embassy.
paul		I don't know, yes, the Embassy will pay you. If you let me go, they'll pay you the money. Silence on the other end of the phone.
jabir		 Nine PM, five million money. Jabir hangs up the phone, forcing Paul to instantly come to grips with the fact that he is being held hostage. He lays back in the coffin, shell-shocked. Physically spent, the cell phone falls from his hands and onto the floor. The display screen casts a dim light throughout the coffin.
paul		Hastings, Michigan. I'm looking for Donna Mitchell.
paul		Ardmore Avenue...I think. Yeah. Shit, I don't know. Just give me that one.
paul		Yes, Ardmore Avenue.
automated message		The number you requested, 269-948- 1998 can automatically be dialed for a charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. Paul writes Donna's number and name on the top of the coffin and then presses the number one. He is connected. Her phone rings and rings. Paul's frustration is evident.
paul		Come on! Where the hell is everyone?
donna		Hello? Hearing her voice, Paul hurriedly places the phone to his ear.
paul		Donna, it's Paul.
donna		Hey, how's it going?
paul		Where's Linda? She's not answering her phone. I need to talk to her, I've been taken hostage by... Donna interrupts. We realize, as does Paul, that her voice was actually coming from her answering machine.
paul		Donna, I need to talk to Linda. It's an absolute emergency. Have her call me. Use star sixty-nine and find out the number I'm calling from and have her call me... Donna picks up the phone.
donna		Paul?
paul		Donna.
donna		What do you want?
paul		I need to talk to Linda. Where is she?
donna		I don't know. I haven't talked to her all day. Call her cell phone.
paul		Are you near a computer or something?
donna		Uh...yeah. Why?
paul		Turn it on.
donna		It is on.
paul		Look up the number for the State Department for me.
donna		I was just heading out to the supermarket. I really don't have
paul		Donna, please, please, please -- just get me the number.
donna		Is everything alright?
paul		No! Everything is not alright! So, please, just look up the number.
donna		Don't fucking yell at me, Paul.
paul		I'm not yelling!
donna		Yes you are. Just like you did last year at the cookout. I'm not going to tolerate --
donna		What? It takes every ounce of Paul's being to keep himself from going off the deep end. He takes a beat to compose himself and then finally offers a very delicate and deliberate response.
paul		Donna, I'm very sorry I yelled. But, I'm only going to ask you once more to get me this number. If you don't get me this number, I'm going to die.
donna		What?
paul		I don't have time to explain. Please...the number.
donna		Yeah. Paul writes the number on the top of the coffin, beneath the man others. He writes the initials "S.D." next to it.
donna		What the hell's going -- Paul hangs up on Donna mid-sentence. He dials the number the State Department right away. A STATE DEPARTMENT REP answers after a few rings.
paul		I'm an American citizen, working in Iraq. I've been taken hostage. I need to speak to someone right away.
paul		From Iraq. I'm a truck driver for CRT -- Crestin, Roland and Thomas. We were attacked and now I'm being held for ransom.
paul		No. I'm buried somewhere.
paul		Yeah, in a coffin, a wooden box. It's an old coffin, I think.
paul		I don't have the number.
paul		I was given a number to call, a safety number. But the people took it.
paul		Yes.
paul		No. Wait... Paul is placed on hold. As he waits, his eyes wander around the coffin. He looks at the numbers he has written.
rebecca		Rebecca Browning.
paul		Hello?
rebecca		Yes, hello. I was just informed of your situation.
paul		Yeah, my situation. I'm running out of time and you people keep putting me on hold. What the hell is wrong with you?
rebecca		I'm sorry.
paul		Don't be sorry. Just help me.
rebecca		I just have a few questions for you, Mister Conroy.
paul		You've got to be kidding me.
rebecca		It's important that I get this information. It will make a rescue
paul		Wait, wait, wait...how did you know my name?
rebecca		I'm sorry?
paul		I never gave you my name. I don't think I gave it to the other guy, either. Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone.
rebecca		 We received a call from a representative at CRT. You left him a message?
paul		Yeah...?
rebecca		He contacted us right away.
paul		Well, since you know what the hell is going on, what have you done to get me out of here?
rebecca		There's little we can do from Washington.
paul		So, that's it? I'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do?
rebecca		No.
paul		Then what?
rebecca		I need to know where you were when your convoy was ambushed.
paul		In the Diyala Provence. In Baqubah.
rebecca		Okay. And has contact been made with the kidnappers?
paul		Yes. The guy told me that he wants five million dollars by nine o'clock tonight.
rebecca		Or else...?
paul		Or else he'll bring me to Sea World. What do you think, lady? Even faced with Paul's sarcasm, Rebecca remains stolid. Professional.
rebecca		We'll do everything we can.
paul		So you'll pay them?
paul		Wait...what?
rebecca		It's the policy of the United States government to not negotiate with terrorists.
paul		To hell with that! It's easy for you to worry about policy, you're sitting in an air conditioned office somewhere, probably finishing up your sandwich from lunch. You're not the one stuck in a coffin, buried in the God damn desert!
rebecca		I understand your frustration --
paul		Frustration? Lady, I'm going to fucking die in here. Understand that! Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone. Paul wonders if she is still there. The idea of being alone again scares him terribly.
rebecca		I'm here.
paul		Well, then say something. Tell me how you're going to get me out of here.
rebecca		What's the number on the phone you're calling from?
paul		I don't know. Did it come up on your end?
rebecca		No. It's listed as unavailable. Do this -- take down this number.
paul		Go ahead.
paul		Who's that?
rebecca		Dan Brenner. He's the commander of the Hostage Working Group over in Iraq.
paul		Hostage Working Group?
rebecca		We formed it in 2004 to deal with situations such as yours. Paul shakes his head in disgust.
paul		Situations. I love how you keep calling it that.
rebecca		Did you write down the number?
paul		Yeah.
rebecca		Good. Hold on, I'll connect you with him now. He should be expecting you.
paul		What about the news? I'm going to call them.
rebecca		No. Do not, I repeat, do not contact the news.
paul		Why?
rebecca		It will only complicate things further and threaten your chances of rescue. Paul doesn't buy it.
paul		That's bullshit. You're just covering your ass.
rebecca		No, I'm covering yours. Everyone who needs to know about this does.
paul		You don't go looking for something if you don't know it's missing.
rebecca		That's why you need to contact Dan Brenner right away. Paul still contemplates contacting the news, but soon acquiesces to Rebecca's pleas for him not to.
paul		Fine.
rebecca		I'm transferring you now.
dan		Brenner.
paul		Dan Brenner?
dan		Is this Paul Conroy?
dan		Paul, I was informed of what's going on. I want you to know that we're already working on trying to get you out of there.
paul		Oh, thank you, God.
dan		I was told that we have until 9pm. Is that right?
paul		That's what he said.
dan		Alright. That doesn't give us a whole lot of time. And just so I have this right, the kidnappers buried you in the ground?
paul		Yeah, in an old, wooden coffin.
dan		Okay. My guess is that since you're able to get a cell signal, you're no more than a few feet underground.
paul		I don't know. Maybe.
dan		What about battery life? How much does the phone have left? Paul looks at the display to find out.
paul		Less than half.
dan		Okay. You have to conserve that battery. Our best bet of finding you is by tracking your cell signal. Is the ringer set on a sound or vibrate?
paul		Vibrate.
dan		Press and hold down the asterisk key to change it to a ring tone. It will use less power.
paul		What about my Zippo?
dan		You have a lighter?
paul		Yeah.
dan		Use it to look around for markings, a logo -- whatever you can find.
paul		Won't it use up oxygen?
dan		Not much. Don't worry about that now. Try to find --
paul		It's really dark in here without it.
dan		I understand, Paul. Try to find anything in there that might indicate where that coffin was made.
paul		You guys have to hurry.
dan		We're working as fast as we can, Paul.
paul		Do you know if there were any other survivors?
dan		From your convoy?
paul		Yeah.
dan		That's still unclear at this point.
paul		I just wanted to do right by my family. That's all.
dan		I don't think any of us did. While on the phone with Brenner, Paul gets another call coming in. He checks the display and reads the number. Matching it against a number he wrote on the top of the coffin, he sees that is Jabir calling.
paul		It's him. He's calling.
dan		The kidnapper?
paul		Yeah. What do I do?
dan		You know his number?
paul		Yeah.
dan		Give it to me.
paul		What about the call?
dan		Give me the number first. The phone has rung several times. Paul fears that Jabir may hang up.
paul		He's going to hang up.
dan		Take the call.
dan		Take the call. Now. Paul complies with Dan's demand and switches to the other line.
paul		Hello.
jabir		Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.
paul		You have to give me more time.
jabir		You talk to embassy? They give money?
paul		Yes. No. I talked to...someone. Government. They said that they won't pay the money.
jabir		No pay?
paul		No. They said that they don't negotiate with terrorists.
jabir		Terrorists? I am terrorist?
paul		Yes. You are terrorist, you son of a bitch.
jabir		You are terrified, so I am terrorist?
paul		What did I ever do to you?
jabir		Ever do?
paul		Yeah. I'm here because it's a job, to make money. That's it.
jabir		I have job until you come. Now, my family have nothing.
paul		That's not my fault! Jabir retorts with a spirited conviction similar to Paul's.
jabir		Nine, one, one was not my fault, but still you are here! Saddam was not my fault, but still you are here!
paul		I told you, I'm only here to work. To help rebuild.
jabir		Rebuild what you destroyed.
paul		Stop! Just please, stop! I'm just a guy. I'm just a truck driver. Okay? I'm nobody that makes decisions about anything. I just want to go home. Silence from the other end of the phone for an extended period of time.
jabir		You make video, ransom video. This surprisingly comes as good news to Paul.
paul		Yes. Please. Get me out of here and I'll make the video.
jabir		No. You make video now.
paul		What...? How?
jabir		You use video on phone. Paul's hopes are dashed. His sanguine head falls back onto the coffin floor.
paul		Where? I don't see --
jabir		Near foot. Read note inside box. Paul repositions his legs as best he can. He can vaguely see the corner of a small metal box, partially sticking out of a broken plank on the bottom of the coffin.
paul		The video...if I make it, will you let me go?
jabir		Only if we get money.
paul		Nobody's going to pay five million dollars for me.
jabir		We take less. One million money.
paul		If they pay it, will you let me go?
jabir		 One million money. Jabir hangs up, ending the call. Paul sits motionless for a moment, soaking in all that Jabir has just told him. He again looks down toward his feet. He can see the protruding corner of the metal box, but it's positioned in such a way that it will clearly not be easy for him to reach it. Paul then tries to clasp the box with his feet, but after several unsuccessful attempts, he realizes that a new strategy is necessary.
shane		Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. Thanks. Paul's eyes well up with tears. He smiles at the sound of his son's voice. The Beep is heard. Paul hangs up without leaving a message. He looks at the time. It's 7:02pm. Battery life is holding steady at one and a half bars. He remembers something.
paul		Shit. Paul presses and holds down the shortcut button on the phone that changes the ringer from vibrate to an audible tone. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul dials Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Dan answers.
dan		Paul?
paul		Here's his number...
dan		Hold on. Alright, go ahead.
paul		It's 07902-24-921. Dan says something to someone who is in the room with him, and then returns his attention to Paul.
dan		This is huge. Unless they're using a cloned line, we should be able to find where this is coming from in minutes.
paul		What about me? Can you track my cell signal?
dan		We're having a lot of trouble with yours. Seems to be an EDS line, probably through one of the Egyptian carriers.
paul		What does that mean?
dan		That...it's not going to be easy.
paul		He wants me to make a ransom video.
dan		No. Hold off for as long as you can.
paul		If it's going to get me out of here, I'm making it.
dan		The last thing we want is for this to end up all over Al Jazeera.
paul		We? Paul becomes angry, again sensing that more emphasis is being placed on containing the situation than rescuing him.
dan		This can't turn into an international incident.
paul		That's all you people care about! But what about me? Don't you care about me?
dan		We do. That's why we're --
paul		No you don't! You people don't care about any of us. I've had eight friends killed out here, six of them today. We don't have any guns, any armor. Nothing.
dan		You're not soldiers.
paul		Tell that to the people who put me in this box! Tell that to the people who shot my friends!
dan		We're doing the best we can.
paul		No, you're not. All you people understand are your secret plans and your back room politics.
dan		I need you to stay focused, Paul.
paul		Fuck you. Dan's heard enough.
dan		Paul, listen to me: finding you is our primary concern. Bottom line. And we're searching just as hard as we would be for a four-star general, so don't literally waste your breath suggesting otherwise. Paul does not respond at first. Dan's retort clearly has an effect on him.
paul		Who are they? The people who put me here?
dan		They're just that -- people. No different from you and me.
paul		I'm no terrorist.
dan		Neither are they.
paul		How do you know that?
dan		If you were homeless, starving...actually, I take that back. If your family was homeless and starving, what would you do for them?
paul		I wouldn't kill someone.
dan		How can you be sure?
dan		They're criminals, desperate ones at that. They don't care about anything other than getting the money.
paul		So pay them, then.
dan		Trust me, if it was an option, I would do that in a heartbeat.
paul		How many others have there been?
dan		Since I got here? Hundreds. Journalists, contractors, soldiers...hundreds have been taken. It's one of the only functioning businesses out here.
paul		How many have you rescued? Dan is reluctant to answer the question.
paul		Tell me their names.
dan		Who?
paul		Any of them. Make me know they really do matter to you.
dan		Mark White.
paul		Who was Mark White?
dan		A kid from New Hampshire. Twenty- six years old. Med student. Came over here to help out local doctors.
paul		What happened to him?
dan		Insurgents grabbed him.
paul		When?
dan		About three weeks ago. Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the list of phone numbers. He circles the name.
paul		You remember his name.
dan		I remember all their names.
paul		 Did he...? Is he...? The glow stick begins to fade.
dan		Yeah. Yeah, Paul, he's alive. Hearing this affords Paul some semblance of relief. Paul shakes the glow stick, returning it to its full strength.
paul		Where is he?
dan		Home. Probably happy to be back at school.
paul		I want to get out of here.
dan		We found him; we'll find you, too.
paul		How?
dan		We already have a solid lead on the number you gave us.
paul		You do?
dan		A unit's on it's way over there now.
paul		That's...that's good.
dan		Yeah.
paul		What should I do in the meantime?
dan		I know it's hard, but try to relax. The more worked up you are, the more air you're going to use.
paul		I can't help it. I'm always anxious. I take pills for it.
dan		Do you have them with you? Paul checks his pants pockets. He removes a small, orange pill bottle.
paul		Yeah.
dan		Take them. You need to preserve your oxygen level any way you can.
paul		Okay.
dan		Is your Zippo still lit.
paul		Not now.
dan		Good.
paul		I feel nauseous.
dan		You have to calm down.
paul		I'm trying.
dan		And you need to save that battery. We're expecting some intel in about ten minutes. Call me back then.
paul		Okay.
dan		Just hang in there, Paul. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul shakes it, causing it to brighten only momentarily before dimming again.
paul		Yeah. I'm trying. Dan ends the call. Paul lets out a deep breath, finding it difficult to lay claim to its replacement. He looks at his watch. It's now 7:18pm. The ticking sound of the second hand turning is inordinately loud, due to the extreme silence of the coffin. Just then, the cell phone rings. Checking the number on the display, Paul sees that it is Jabir. Paul answers.
paul		What?
jabir		Did you make video?
paul		No. Jabir yells something in Arabic to the other Iraqi men we hear in the background. Collectively, they do not sound pleased. Slightly panicked, in fact, though it is difficult to tell for sure.
paul		Let me out and I'll make it.
jabir		No! You make video now. In box.
paul		I can't. I can't read the paper.
jabir		Make video now!
paul		I can't. I don't know what you want me to say. I can't read the paper. Jabir is heard speaking with the men we hear arguing in the background. Although they speak in Arabic, it is clear from their tone that they are becoming worried and increasingly hostile. Jabir returns his attention back to Paul.
jabir		You make video now. Jabir ends the call. Paul closes the phone to help conserve battery life. He then reopens the phone and scrolls through the menu options. Everything is written in Arabic. He eventually comes across an icon with a movie camera -- the video function. He turns it on. Looks at himself though the viewfinder. After a beat, he closes the phone, clearly frustrated and growing more panicked. His breaths grow heavy and rapid, utilizing a great deal of oxygen. 
paul		I'm never getting out of here. Paul begins to freak out, restlessly squirming inside the coffin and pressing against the sides and top. The glow stick fades out almost completely, offering very little light. Paul shakes it, but with no change to its brightness. Moments later, it dies. Paul tries the flashlight. Click-click. Click-click. Nothing. He bangs it a few times with his hand. The white light turns on, but quickly turns back off. He twists the top, which causes the flashlight to switch bulbs. A red beam emits momentarily. Paul twists the top again and gives the flashlight a few good whacks.
paul		I was hoping I could speak with Maryanne Conroy, please.
maryanne		Hello?
paul		Mom...it's Paul.
maryanne		Who?
paul		It's Paul, Mom. Your son.
maryanne		My son?
paul		It's okay, Mom. How are you?
maryanne		I'm fine.
paul		That's good.
maryanne		Who are you?
paul		It's your son, Mom. It's Paulie.
maryanne		Paulie?
paul		Yeah. Remember? We lived over on Colfax Street, in the duplex. Remember?
paul		That's right, Mom.
maryanne		Is this Paulie?
paul		It is, Mom. It's Paulie. How's everything at the home?
maryanne		Very nice. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night. It's almost too much for Paul to take. He cries silent tears over a heartbroken smile.
paul		Yeah...I don't think Pop's there with you, Mom.
maryanne		How are you doing, sweetie?
paul		Not very good. This...uh, this may be the last time I talk to you.
maryanne		That's nice, honey.
paul		Did you get the flowers I sent a few months ago?
maryanne		Flowers?
paul		Yeah, I sent...never mind. Listen, I...I'm going to go now. I just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. I love you, Mom. Maryanne doesn't respond.
maryanne		Yes, dear. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night.
paul		 Okay, Mom. Tell Pop I said hi. Paul ends the call and instantly begins crying his heart out. He lays there, sobbing relentlessly. After a long beat, the cell phone rings. Decidedly different than his past reactions to an incoming call, Paul seems hopelessly disinterested. The ring is maddening. He mindlessly presses the shortcut button, resetting the ring to vibrate mode. He eventually picks up the phone, but there is not anyone on the other end. It's then that he sees that it was not a call that came in, but instead was a picture message. Pressing what appears to be the Accept button, the incoming picture begins to download. Several seconds later, the picture downloads and an image appears on the display of Paul's cell phone. It's of a woman -- bound and gagged, a gun pressed against the side of her head.
paul		Oh no. No, no, no! Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea.
jabir		Video make?
paul		Let her go. Please. Please don't hurt her. The Woman is heard in the background of Jabir's phone, crying muffled words through her muzzled mouth.
jabir		We shoot her if you no make video.
paul		No! No, please no shoot. No shoot her.
jabir		You get money. American million.
paul		I will, I promise. Just don't shoot her. She's a mother, she's got two kids.
jabir		Two kids?
paul		Yes. She has two kids.
jabir		I have five. Now only one. You make video. Now!!
paul		Wait...
jabir		No wait!! I give three seconds.
paul		I can't read the paper.
jabir		Three...
paul		No. Wait!
jabir		Two...
paul		I don't know what you want me to say!
jabir		One.
paul		Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his breath.
jabir		You have three minute to send video.
paul		 Fuck... He drops the paper to his side and opens the phone, setting it to the video record function. He places the flashlight close to his face so as to make his image more visible on the small, phone display screen.
paul		 My name is Paul Conroy. I'm an American citizen from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a civilian truck driver for Crestin, Roland and Thomas. I've been taken hostage somewhere in Iraq...and I need one million dollars by nine o'clock tonight, Baghdad time, or else I'll be left to die in this coffin I'm buried in. I've been told that if... The flashlight goes out. Paul continues speaking in the darkness. After a few quick smacks, the flashlight turns back on.
paul		No, no, no!! Desperately straining every muscle in his body, he extends his arm backward toward the Zippo, hoping to move it away from the spilled alcohol. He still can't reach it, yet he tries with all his might. The phone stops ringing. He has missed the call. He tries blowing at the flame, but his head is too far away and his breath is not strong enough to do much more than cause it to flicker. With the alcohol now mere inches away from the flame, Paul reaches for his shoe. His odd positioning makes reaching his foot almost impossible. He struggles to undo the laces and remove it from his foot. With his face beet red from the force of his strain, Paul finally removes his shoe. The mere inch of leg room this creates allows him to slide his leg out from under him. The trail of alcohol is just about to come into contact with the flame -- -- but Paul deftly maneuvers his body just in time to awkwardly kick the Zippo out of the way and close the lid. Paul breaths an enormous sigh of relief as he sits in the dim light of the damaged glow stick. He notices another hole in the coffin. As a precaution, he stuffs it with the cloth that had previously been used to gag him.
paul		 There you are. We see, on the display of the phone, that Paul has found a listing of languages. He scrolls past many -- "FRANCAIS, DETSCHE, ESPANOL" -- stopping at "ENGLISH." Presses the button, instantly making all the text on the screen readable. He quickly navigates to the Tools menu. Scrolls down. Locates the number of the cell phone he is using. He scribbles the number onto the top of the coffin. Then a second pass, making it bolder than the others. Paul then dials his wife's cell phone. After only a few rings, he is met by her voice mail.
paul		Linda, here's the number for the phone. I just found it out. It's 07902-42-884. You have to use the international calling code first.
paul		Son of a... Paul grabs the flashlight. Turns it on. It works for a second, but then goes out. Shaking it only produces intermittent beams of light. He turns the top, switching to the red bulb. It works. The coffin fills with a reddish hue, but then it, too, goes out. Growing incensed, Paul switches back to the white bulb. It works. He returns his attention to the coffin. His efforts to use the knife as a fulcrum are futile. Still, he tries. Bending the blade well past its design, it nearly breaks off its handle. The flashlight turns off. After a good shaking, it turns back on, emitting white light. With oxygen levels extremely diminished, efforts of this kind are all too much for Paul to take. He has to stop and try to catch his breath. As he endeavors to get his wind back, the cell phone rings. Not a call this time, but instead a video message. It has been sent by Jabir. Paul's trepidation is evident. He fears what the incoming video may show.
woman		My name is Pamela Gorham. I'm a food service worker at F.O.B. Anaconda, employed by Crestin, Roland and Thomas. My captors' requests for ransom have gone unanswered, and -- The Woman, Pamela, looks off-screen to her right. Someone is fast approaching her. She cowers, protectively holding her bound hands in front of her face as she screams.
paul		No! No, no, no!!! Still in the throes of emotional torment, Paul vomits on himself. He doubles over, only to vomit once again. His body, taxed almost to the point of complete physical breakdown, gradually slows and levels itself. With his vomit- smeared face pressed cheek-down onto the bottom of the coffin, Paul stares into nothingness.
dan		Why the hell did you make that video?
paul		It's all a bunch of lies.
dan		What is? What are you talking about?
paul		All of it.
dan		All of what?
paul		Nobody gives a shit about any of us. We're nothing to you people.
dan		We're going to find you.
paul		By looking the other way?
dan		You can't start breaking on me now, Paul. You have to stay strong.
paul		You let her die.
dan		 No I didn't.
paul		They shot her...and you didn't do anything.
dan		We didn't even know she had been taken hostage.
paul		She sent three videos.
dan		That's what they told her to say.
paul		Why?
dan		I don't know.
paul		What do you know?
dan		That your ransom video already has 47,000 hits on YouTube. And all the major networks are playing it, including Al Jazeera. So, now your captors have no choice but to follow through.
paul		I found out the number to this phone.
dan		How?
paul		I found a way to change the display language. I figured that out, and you didn't. Why?
dan		Because I didn't. Just like you and every other person on this planet, there are some things I know and some things I don't.
paul		Then how are you ever going to find me?
dan		Their signal was cloned, like we figured. But, we're close. Real close.
paul		What about mine?
dan		We're working on that, too.
paul		I'm near a Mosque. I could hear the call to prayer over the P.A.
dan		Good. That means that we're in the right area.
paul		You're nearby?
dan		I spoke with soldiers from the third ID who were escorting your convoy.
paul		They're alive? After a beat:
dan		Not all of them. Both Bradley tanks were hit with IEDs. The rest got caught in small arms fire.
paul		We had just left Anaconda, everything seemed okay. We knew that a bunch of our CB radios had been stolen and that the Iraqis were listening in, so we made sure to switch from our usual channels. Pam was riding with Jeff Breer, the convoy commander. She wanted to ride with me like she usually did when she hitched a ride from base, but it seemed safer for her to be with the C.C. As we headed down the road, all these kids came running into the street. Dozens of them. It almost seemed like they were expecting us, except we got there faster than they thought we would. So they run on up in front of me, and I slam on my brakes. The rest of the drivers were already further up ahead, so they kept going. Next thing I know, one of the lead trucks got hit by an IED. I hear Tommy Wilkes on the radio saying, Sandman's hit, Sandman's hit. He's...he's everywhere.
dan		Do you happen to remem...mo... nea... The cell phone service begins to cut out. Suddenly, the coffin begins to vibrate slightly, dropping sand granules through the crack and onto the wood bottom, followed by the faint sound of an explosion. Within seconds, the explosions grow louder and more proximate. The vibration becomes so intense that it violently shakes Paul around the coffin. The sound of jet plane engines are heard coming from above, flying by as the massive explosions continue. Sand seeps in through the crack between the top and sides of the coffin as it shakes. Paul does his best to brace himself, but the bombardment is far too powerful.
paul		This can't be happening. We see that Dan Brenner is no longer on the phone, and that the display menu shows an icon of a phone with a line through it -- No Service Available. Once he feels it is secure enough, Paul slowly moves his body away from the crack. Although slightly caved, it does not show any more signs of possible collapse. Sweat drenches his face. His eyes affixed, in utter disbelief, on the sand as it spills into the coffin, filling in around him inch-by-inch.
alan davenport		Is this Paul Conroy?
paul		Yes. Yes, this is Paul. Who are you?
alan davenport		Paul, my name's Alan Davenport, I'm the personnel director here at Crestin, Roland and Thomas.
paul		I left you a message.
alan davenport		You did. I also heard from Rebecca Browning over at the State Department. Are you able to speak on the status of your situation?
paul		It's worse. There was an explosion or something. The coffin's breaking, there's sand pouring in from everywhere. I only have a half an hour before --
alan davenport		Okay, okay. Slow down. You should try to stay calm. Tell me something, Paul, who have you spoken to?
paul		The hostage takers, Dan Brenner from the hostage working group --
alan davenport		Okay, Paul. I'm with you. How about the media. I know your ransom video leaked, but have you spoken directly to anyone about what's going on? The flashlight goes out. Paul hits it a few times and it turns back on.
paul		No.
alan davenport		That's good. It needs to stay that way. It's important that we keep this situation as contained as possible. Paul finds Alan's obvious concern with doing damage control to be infuriating.
paul		About three inches to my right, there's a wall. Three inches to my left, there's another wall. And about four inches above my head, there's a roof that's about to collapse and drown me in sand. I think this situation is pretty contained.
alan davenport		I know you're upset --
paul		Help me! Help me! What are you going to do to help me?!
alan davenport		I know you're upset. And, from what I've been told, steps are being taken to get you out of there. So, hopefully it won't be much longer.
paul		Thank God.
alan davenport		Yes, thank God.
paul		What...?
alan davenport		Please answer the question. The flashlight goes out again.
paul		Shit. Paul hits it, but it does not catch. He sits in darkness.
alan davenport		Mister Conroy?
paul		Yes. Yes!
alan davenport		And do I have your permission to do so?
paul		Why do you need my permission? What is all this?
alan davenport		I need you to answer yes or no, please.
paul		Yes. Alright? Yes! Paul hits the flashlight. It turns back on.
alan davenport		Thank you. Now, Mister Conroy, when were you hired by CRT?
paul		About nine months ago. Around January of 2005. Why are you wasting time with this?
alan davenport		I have your official date of hire as January 4th, 2005. Is that correct?
paul		Who cares? This is fucking crazy --
alan davenport		January 4th, 2005. Is that correct?
paul		Yes!
alan davenport		And during your initial training, before being sent to Iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were hired.
paul		You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength.
alan davenport		I need you to answer yes or no, please.
alan davenport		During that time, did you also receive and sign an employment contract with CRT, which thoroughly explained company policy as it pertained to your specific terms of employment?
paul		Yeah, I signed a bunch of things.
alan davenport		Yes or no.
paul		Yes. I signed the contract. Yes!
alan davenport		It's our understanding that you were taken hostage in Iraq two hours ago, is that also correct?
paul		Yes. That's completely correct. What is the point of all this?
alan davenport		Our legal department requires that we obtain a sworn affidavit from employees, confirming that they understand the reasons for their forced separation from the company. As of this morning, your employment with CRT was officially terminated.
paul		Wait, wait, wait -- The flashlight dims even more.
alan davenport		It was brought to our attention that you were engaging in relations with a fellow CRT employee -- Pamela Gorham.
paul		No. Wait --
alan davenport		Stipulated in your contract was a fraternization clause, in which it was stated quite clearly that any relationship, be it romantic or sexual in nature, deemed inappropriate by CRT senior officials is grounds for immediate termination.
paul		We...we were just friends.
alan davenport		Our records indicate differently.
paul		This is bullshit.
alan davenport		We're also legally required to inform you that because you were technically no longer under the employ of CRT at the time of your abduction, we cannot be held accountable for any injury that may befall upon you after your official date and time of termination. Therefore, in your case, that includes this incident or any consequences that may result from it. Paul sees where Alan is going with this. He's thunderstruck.
paul		What about my insurance money? My family will need that money...
alan davenport		Given that you were alive up until the time of your termination --
paul		You son of a bitch. You can't do this.
alan davenport		Do you understand everything --
paul		You can't do this! Alan takes a second before trying again.
alan davenport		Do you understand everything you've been told, Mister Conroy? Paul does not answer.
paul		Go to hell.
alan davenport		That concludes our interview with Paul Conroy. I am now turning off the recorder. A click is heard. The humming ceases.
paul		You people can't just wash your hands of this. You bastards put me here.
alan davenport		I'm sorry. Alan ends the call. Paul looks at the phone -- it is still holding a steady signal. Battery life, however, is running quite low. All that remains is one blinking bar, indicating that Paul has very little battery life left. He shakes his hand free of the pile of sand that now covers it and looks at his watch. It's 8:31pm. The flashlight bulb dims until it goes out completely. Only the light of the cell phone display lights the coffin.
paul		Come on...
paul		Answer the phone!! Paul tries Jabir once again, but still he does not answer the phone.
paul		 Why won't you answer?!! It's then that something occurs to Paul. He stares at the crack in the top of the coffin and the sand that pours in at an alarmingly fast rate. The crack has split Jabir's written phone number in half. The aerial bombing. He wonders how it may have affected Jabir and, consequently, his own chances of survival. He places his hand under the point from where the sand pours in most, allowing it to collect on his palm and slip through his fingers. The flickering Zippo flame tells of the diminished amount of oxygen. Paul attempts to control his breathing, realizing full well that there are not many more breaths he will be able to take. He then calls Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Brenner answers. Paul is surprisingly serene.
dan		Paul, is that you?
paul		They're dead.
dan		How do you know that?
paul		I just do.
dan		Three F-16s levelled parts of the city a few minutes ago.
paul		I know. I felt it. Did they know I was here? The Zippo flame flutters. Weakens.
dan		 Yeah.
paul		Did they care? Dan does not answer.
dan		We can still try to track down your signal.
paul		You tried that already.
dan		We can try again. Paul appreciates Dan's effort, but he knows there is little hope left for him.
dan		No. Paul doesn't say a word. He knows that Dan is lying. After a beat, Dan comes clean.
paul		What should I do?
dan		I don't know.
paul		That's right -- just like everyone else on the planet, there are some things you know and some things you don't.
dan		I wish this could have gone differently.
paul		Yeah...me too. After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to his lachrymose face. Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his image on the display. He presses Record.
paul		You're not dead. Jabir is heard speaking frantically in Arabic to the several other people in the room with him.
jabir		Where is money?
paul		I don't know.
jabir		What don't know?
paul		I don't know where the money is.
jabir		Liar!
paul		I'm not lying! I swear.
jabir		Swear?
paul		I'm telling the truth.
jabir		From Embassy, you get money now!
paul		I can't!
jabir		You will!!
paul		I need more time. Please. Paul shakes and hits the flashlight. It still does not work.
jabir		No more time!
paul		There's sand pouring in here. I can't...it's everywhere. Please, let me out of here and I will get you the money. Jabir utters something in Arabic to someone standing next to him, seemingly asking a question and getting an answer from the same individual. Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight. Switches the positioning of the batteries. Screws the cap back on. Hits the switch. Nothing. Jabir returns to the phone.
paul		What? Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight again. Removes the batteries. Bites down on them a few times. Blows hard inside the flashlight tube.
jabir		You show blood, they give money.
paul		No.
jabir		You cut off thumb finger, send video.
paul		I'm not doing that.
jabir		Yes! Paul puts the batteries back inside the flashlight. Begins screwing on the cap.
paul		No.
jabir		No?
paul		That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.
jabir		You have wife? Click. The flashlight turns on!
paul		Yes, I do. And a son. A young son. I want to go home...to see them. Please, sir.
jabir		Sir?
paul		Yes. Sir. I say that out of respect...to you.
jabir		243 East Walnut Street. Hastings, Michigan. U.S.A.
jabir		You show blood...or they show blood.
paul		That's...you're lying. You're nobody...all of you. You can't get to them.
jabir		No?
paul		No. You're peasants, criminals, that's all. You don't even know where Michigan is.
jabir		Detroit. Ann Arbor. Even this basic knowledge is enough to make Jabir's threats that much more real.
paul		You looked at a map. That's all you did.
jabir		You show blood, or they show blood. Send video by five minutes. Jabir ends the call. Realizing that Jabir is gone, Paul quickly dials his wife's cell phone. After several rings, her voice mail picks up.
dan		This is Daniel Brenner. Please leave a message at the tone. The beep sounds. Paul delivers a frenzied message.
paul		Brenner, where are you?! He's alive! He just called me! Call me right away! The fucking guy is still alive! Paul hangs up the phone. Unsure what to do next, Paul's heartbeat races. He fidgets, nervously shaking and tapping his thumb against the phone. He questions the validity of Jabir's threats toward his family.
paul		Yeah?
dan		Paul, it's Brenner. Paul doesn't have the strength to answer.
paul		I'm...here.
dan		We're coming for you now. You hear me? We know where you are.
paul		You're coming?
dan		We are, Paul. We're almost there now.
paul		How do you know?
dan		Coalition forces picked up a Shiite insurgent just outside of Baghdad.
paul		You're coming for me?
dan		We're practically there already. An impossible smile fights its way to Paul's lips. His momentary joy is just that, however, for the sand has almost completely filled the coffin by this point.
paul		You have to hurry.
dan		We are.
paul		No...you have to hurry. The sand...it's filling up fast.
dan		Just hang in there for three more minutes. This will all be over soon, I promise. Paul is very hopeful that Dan is correct in his assumption.
paul		Okay. I believe you. Thank you. Thank you. A beep is heard. Paul has another call coming in. He's visibly elated upon seeing who it is.
dan		Three minutes. Try to --
paul		I have to go!
dan		Paul, no --
paul		Call me right back.
dan		Paul!
paul		Call me right back. Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled with sand from top-to-bottom. He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile, allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area remains.
paul		Linda. Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.
linda		Paul? Paul is that you? Tell me it's you.
paul		It's me, sweetie.
linda		Oh my God, Paul! What are they doing to you? Please tell me you're okay.
paul		I'm...okay.
linda		I just saw the news. What...oh my God, baby. The flashlight dims. Paul shakes it, regaining a bit of its strength.
paul		It's going to be okay now.
linda		I missed all your calls. I left my cell phone at home. I just found out what was going on.
paul		That's okay. It's all okay. They're getting me out.
linda		Who?
paul		The people. Americans. They found out where I am and they're on their way to get me.
paul		It's all going to be okay.
linda		How do you know for sure? Oh God, please tell me you're okay. The flashlight continues to flicker almost like a stroboscopic light from this point forward.
paul		I'm okay.
linda		I was so afraid I was going to lose you.
paul		You're not. Linda breaks down in joyous tears.
linda		I love you so much. I love you so, so much.
linda		It doesn't matter.
paul		I should have never come here. You were right. I'm sorry.
linda		Sweetie, I don't care. I just want you home. Please come home to me.
paul		I will.
linda		Swear it.
paul		I will. I swear I will. Paul then receives a call on the other line. He checks to see who's calling. It's Dan Brenner.
linda		The people?
paul		They're calling me right now. I have to go.
linda		Call me right away.
paul		I will. I love you.
linda		I love you. Swear it again.
paul		I swear. I have to go. Paul clicks over to the other line, where Dan Brenner waits to speak with him. We hear Dan yelling to people who are with him. A great deal of commotion and action is heard through the phone.
dan		Move! Move! Let's go.
paul		Brenner?
dan		Paul? Paul?
paul		It's me.
dan		We're here! Dan yells to one of the soldiers who are with him.
paul		You have to hurry. It's almost full.
dan		Just hang in there!
paul		Hurry! Please!
dan		 Dig! Dig! Dig! Paul fights to keep his head above the sand. The flashlight dims.
paul		I can't...are you close?
dan		We're almost there, Paul. We're almost there! 
paul		I can't hear you! Where are you?
dan		We're almost there. A SOLDIER is heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. of Dan's phone.
dan		 Keep digging!!
paul		Hurry! Please!!!
dan		We see the coffin! Just hang in there!! Paul coughs out sand. He has a mere inch left above his head.
paul		Hurry! Where are you? I don't hear you? Please hurry!!!
soldier		It's clear!
dan		 Open it! Nondescript noise is heard through the phone, until it comes to an abrupt stop.
paul		What is it?!
dan		I'm so sorry, Paul.
paul		What?!!
dan		It's Mark White. He brought us to Mark White. I'm -- We see the circled name of "MARK WHITE" written in capital letters on the top of the coffin.
paul		You said...!
paul		No.
dan		I'm so sorry.
paul		No!! No!! NO!!! The battery life on Paul's phone runs out, causing it to power down. The filament of the flashlight bulb burns out. As it does, the sand finally consumes the coffin, filling it completely.
dan		I'm sorry, Paul. I'm so sorry.
****Dialogues from script :Burlesque.txt****

burlesque		DRUM ROLL ends with a CYMBAL CRASH. The SCREEN goes BLACK. Then we hear an opening MUSIC "INTRO", a bawdy QUARTET. EXTREME CLOSE UP: RED LUSCIOUS LIPS... speaking directly into CAMERA in a smoky, sultry voice.
tess		Once upon a time ...a long, looong time ago... there was a good little girl...and they called her... REVEAL ...TESS. A stunner with impossibly long lashes, theatrical make-up and a sequined, skin-tight band-aid of a dress. She works the tight stage of the club, toying with the AUDIENCE.
ali		Uh, excuse me? You forgot something. He turns. Sees: ALI ROSE. One hand holding a bar rag, the other planted on her hip. Ali has a look that's all her own: short shorts, white platform sandals, hair piled up high, more make-up than the rest of Grundy's women combined. She's young -- 22 -- but has a confidence that's got nothing to do with age.
regular		No, that's your tip.
ali		Huh. See, now that's interesting -- you and I must do math completely differently, cause me? I start with the six beers I brought you, add the four spills I cleaned up, the five times I refilled your peanuts, plus the three times you "accidentally" touched my ass, then I tack on lying to your wife when she called looking for you, twice, and I come up with a sum that's a hell of a lot more than twenty-five cents. Before the Regular can respond, Ali is joined by LORETTA -- 30's wearing every one of those years hard.
loretta		She's just teasing, Ike. You go on home now, and tell Kay I said hi. The Regular leaves. Loretta picks up the quarter.
ali		Nothin's cheap. A quarter's an insult.
loretta		It'll cover half a load down at the Spanky Clean.
ali		There's only one thing a quarter is good for. Ali takes the quarter and heads to the back of the room, passing a GEEZER who's sitting by himself, drinking alone.
loretta		Oh no, hon, now you know how Dwight feels about that.
ali		Dwight isn't here. Ali stops in front of the rinky-dink karaoke machine.
loretta		He could come back any minute.
ali		Tough. I'm not working here for the tips Loretta. She pops the quarter into the machine and chooses a song. She picks up the microphone and, after a few opening beats, starts singing ETTA JAMES'S "SOMETHING'S GOT A HOLD ON ME".
tess		The insatiable La Puccini Triplets! Death-defying daredevils Missy and Kitten DeVille! The Countess of contortion, Eva Destruction! And how about a little love for those bad boys of burlesque, our naughty- bawdy bumber band! THE TATTOOED BAND blares as the troupe kicks in unison
loretta		People around here wouldn't know talent if it bit 'em in the Danglies. Where you gotta go is Des Moines. They got karaoke bars where you can win a hundred bucks a night.
ali		Loretta-- when I get out of this butt-hole of a town, I sure as shit won't be heading for Des Moines. She hops up onto the bar, spins around on her butt, one leg up in the air like a Varga girl, then hops down on the other side then gets back to work.
tess		Where the hell is Nikki?
sean		Rehab, if there's a God. The BACKSTAGE DOOR BURSTS OPEN revealing--
nikki		I heard that. Nikki, a stunning, feisty brunette, sashays in--
tess		Jesus, Nikki, you're later than Georgia's period! Where were you?
nikki		Weave, wax, paws and claws. She drops her bag, quickly peels her clothes off, holds out her arms as Sean slips her corset onto her-- Tess eyes Nikki's body--
tess		Hold it right there. Weigh in. Nikki unwillingly steps on the scale. Tess shakes her head.
ali		Nanna? Got your pot roast here!
ali		They were out of steak fries, so I got you some of those... Then she stops in her tracks. Nanna -- 80's, housecoat, oxygen tank -- is slumped in her chair. The TV remote is on the floor. "ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT" is blaring.
young minister		Dear Lord, we gather here today not to mourn, but to celebrate the life of Alison Rose.
ali		Arlene.
young minister		What?
ali		She's Arlene. I'm Alison.
young minister		Oh, shit.  Can I start over? Ali rolls her eyes.
loretta		You were real good to her, Ali.
ali		No, she was good to me. She rearranges the flowers resting on the plot, fixing it up.
loretta		What...?
ali		Foster care. She took me in for the checks. When I turned eighteen, the money stopped coming. She could've kicked me out, but she didn't.
loretta		Well, then I guess this is a blessing. Now she's free. ON ALI, thinking realizing:
ali		 Yeah. I guess she is.
tess		Girls look good tonight.
sean		Amazing what a pink spotlight can do. Hides more cellulite than a burka.
dwight		You're three days late.
ali		I had a death in the family.
dwight		And what, people stop drinking cause your grandma died? Get your apron and get to work.
ali		I'm not here to work. I'm leaving.
loretta		You are?
ali		Yeah.
dwight		Payday's the end of the month.
ali		But, I won't be here then. And you owe me for three weeks.
dwight		I don't owe anyone anything till the end of the month. Ali sets down her suitcase and marches over to him.
ali		You know what, Dwight? Contrary to what you've been told, there's no law in Grundy that says you have to spend every waking minute being a tight-fisted, cheap-ass prick --
loretta		 Ooh, hon, I'm not sure that particular approach is gonna --
ali		I've spent three years of my life
dwight		--And you'll probably spend another three. You want to quit? Good riddance. I'll replace you before you hit the county line, but I sure ain't gonna pay for the privilege. He walks out the back door, slamming it behind him.
loretta		What are you doing?
ali		I'm only taking what he owes me.
loretta		Ali-- where are you gonna go?
ali		Somewhere I can breathe. Now gimme a hug, I gotta get out of here before he gets back. Loretta hugs her tight, then looks Ali in the eye, concerned.
loretta		You can't just head off into the sunset without a plan.
older woman		She'll be back. As Ali heads off, we HEAR:
ali		How much to Los Angeles?
ali		You're kidding, right?
sean		They're loving you tonight.
tess		They're loving you.
sean		Oh, shucks, I just tell myself I'm writing for a big old drag queen.
tess		Eat me. As he heads off with her discarded costume:
sean		A big old foul-mouthed drag queen! Tess looks in a mirror. As she makes the necessary adjustments, VINCE SCALI appears. 35, scruffy-handsome.
vince		Good show tonight. She glances up, sees him. Gets icy. Goes back to primping.
tess		Half-full.
vince		I got another call from Marcus Gerber.
tess		And you told him we weren't selling.
vince		He wants to raise his offer. I told him we'd hear him out. Tess spins around, looking him in the eye for the first time.
tess		Vince, I don't care what the number is; the only way Marcus Gerber will get this club from me is by prying it out of my cold, dead, heavily- jeweled fingers. She pivots away and sweeps into the club.
radio		102.7 KIIS FM. Broadcasting from Hollywood and Vine... Ali perks up-- looks out the window as the bus rounds a bend and... THE HOLLYWOOD SIGN comes into view. NEW MUSIC UP:
ali		Okay!
skinny guy		Sorry, ladies, that's all the applications we're taking today. CLOSE ON: an ad: "DANCERS WANTED. PRETTY GIRLS ONLY."
ali		I can dance.
drunk guy		She'll be back.
alexis		Like I said, LOOK BUT DON'T TOUCH! ALEXIS, drag queen/door whore, also in full costume and make- up, TOSSES a GUY out the front door onto the street, then heads back inside-- Ali smiles to herself. Then turns back to look at COCO who disappears inside a BACK DOOR as...NIKKI walks out. Lights a ciggie. She has on full make-up. Lacquered lips. Lashes like peacock feathers. She sees Ali staring.
nikki		Didn't your Mama tell you it's not polite to stare?
ali		Sorry, you're just -- so DAMN beautiful.
nikki		What?
ali		That you're a dude. Nikki's face turns to stone. Her eyes widen in horror. Ali sees the mistake she made. She's mortified.
nikki		"Shit's" right, you little half-wit
sean		Bitch! You're on! Sean grabs her and drags her inside. As he does, a STRAND OF CRYSTAL BEADS comes off her costume, falls to the ground.
ali		I'm really sor-- The stage door slams shut. Ali picks up the strand of beads. Holds them up in the light, watching them shimmer. She goes to the front of club, where a smattering of L.A. HIPSTERS enter. There's a GLASS DISPLAY CASE full of photos of the acts. Ali looks at the pictures of the Girls in their elaborate costumes and provocative poses. She's unintentionally made her way to the front door. Black curtains obscure her view inside. She peers in. HEARS cool music emanating. The sounds of a nightclub. Intriguing. She ventures inside...
ali		What is this place? A strip club?
alexis		Strip club? Honey, I ought to wash your mouth out with Jaegermeister. The only pole you'll find in here is Natasha the shot girl. Ali looks back at the photos.
tess		Smoother than honey and twice as sweet. Each girl lovelier then the next. Gentlemen, hold onto your hats. Ladies, hold on to your gentlemen. We may not have windows.. .but we DO have the best view on the Sunset Strip! MUSIC KICKS IN AS LIGHTS FLARE from the back of the stage, where Three Girls stand, backs to the audience, Fosse-style. Coco, Georgia, and Nikki strut downstage. Behind them, Girls MOVE AND DANCE on cabaret chairs. Totally raunchy, completely timeless.
jack		Get you a drink? She turns. A bartender is watching her watch. JACK - 25, punky, dark hair, eyeliner, one arm half-sleeved with tats.
ali		Only if you're buying.
jack		 Welcome to L.A.
jack		You still have that new-car smell.
ali		Not brand new. But still under warranty.
jack		Where you from? She looks back at the stage, mesmerized.
ali		Iowa.
jack		Oh, yeah? Kentucky. We're practically related.
ali		I thought you looked familiar. He smiles. As Ali sips her free beer, Jack stacks drinks on a tray for a DITSY WAITRESS. He slides the tray to her. She doesn't notice. He barks at her:
jack		Hey_. Go.
jack		They don't build 'em like this in Iowa, huh?
ali		Hell no. I wouldn't have left. She stares up at the stage, marvels at the dancers.
jack		Is this you flirting?
ali		With someone wearing more eyeliner than me? He laughs. Points across the club to A DOOR leading backstage.
jack		Ask for Tess. She's your guy. Flirt away. As she heads off--
ali		Thanks, Jack. She smiles, slips it in her cleavage and heads for the door.
ali		Excuse me. I'm looking for Tess.
tess		 So am I. And sometimes, when the lights are dim, and I squint my eyes ...I can still see her. She switches to mascara. Sean, arms heavy with corsets, catches eyes with Ali, nods toward Tess: "that's her." Ali steps closer to Tess.
ali		Hi. I'm a friend of Jack's, and I'm-
tess		New in town.
ali		Yes, and I'm--
tess		Looking for a job.
ali		Yes, and I--
tess		Want to perform here.
ali		Yes. Tess glances at Ali in the mirror. Then goes back to her mascara, unimpressed. Silence.
tess		This is a dance show.
ali		I can dance.
tess		 Really? You a professional?
ali		I'm a quick study.
tess		Not on my dime. Tess stands, a final check in the mirror. Ali sees her chance
ali		Okay, I get that you're busy so I won't waste any more of your time-- but this place-- I've just never seen anything like it before and I know I belong here. So, how can I be a part of it?
tess		Twenty bucks at the door can make all your dreams come true. Tess strides out, not looking back. Ali sees the Girls trading glances, amused. She turns and leaves.
ali		One Dewar's neat, one shot of Patron, and get this, tough-guy in the hat? He wants a Cosmo. Jack looks at her, surprised. Impressed.
ali		Her leg went behind her head!
jack		Yeah, Coco's the real deal.
ali		I want to do that.
jack		She used to dance with the Joffrey Ballet. Nikki sang opera. Eva performed with Cirque. Everyone here's a pro.  And you're on!
nikki		What's she doing here?!
sean		What'd she do to you?
nikki		She thought I was a drag queen! Stifled giggles from the girls.
sean		Can't be the first time THAT'S happened. Nikki is about to haul off on Sean when the CURTAIN OPENS, and WHOOMP!
ali		When he kisses me I get a thrill... The Cat MEOWS and slinks out from behind the bed. Ali pulls the crystal beads out of her pocket
ali		Thanks. She heads back to the bar. As Jack loads her tray up, she stuffs her tips into her pocket-- SEES Sean, looking her up and down.
sean		Okay, girl, time for Sean to give you a real tip. He ties her shirt up higher, undoes the top few buttons...
marcus		Dewar's on the rocks for me. Bottle of Dom for the table and--  --And tell Nikki I'm here. Ali starts away, then--
ali		And you are?
marcus		 A member since 1991. Oh-kay. He smiles, wickedly handsome. Ali pivots and heads back to the bar. Before she can tell Jack the order:
jack		Dewar's rocks, bottle of Dom, keep it coming.
ali		So Asshole's a regular?
jack		Marcus Gerber. Real estate guy.
ali		He's with Nikki?
jack		This week. Vince goes over to Marcus's table, shakes hands, joins him.
ali		Who's that with him?
jack		Technically your boss: Vince Scali. Tess's partner. And ex... Jack is about to lift the AmEx off the tray, when Sean swoops by and intercepts it.
sean		A black AmEx! The backstage pass to life! He sees Coco walking by, swipes the AmEx in her cleavage. She shudders, then turns around and tips her ass up at him. He swipes the card again.
coco		Access denied!
sean		Now there's a first! Jack sees Ali laughing at their banter. She heads off with the tray of Dewar's and Dom as the "Prince Nez" number ends.
on stage		LIGHTS UP on TESS, CENTER STAGE as she begins a new number, "Long John Blues." A singing/spoken hilarious interlude. The Girls back her up.
vince		She's on the verge.
marcus		That's what you said last time.
vince		She has no choice. We owe a balloon payment of 100 grand on the first, she took out a second to buy me out of the condo. And she just got turned down for another loan today.
marcus		There's a handful of these clubs around town, I could buy one of them tomorrow.
vince		But it wouldn't be in the heart of the Sunset Strip.
ali		She's funny.
sean		Thanks. My lines. Our secret. Jack gives Sean his drink. He walks off. MUSIC UP: An insanely cool version of Sly and Family Stone "Everybody Is A Star" mashed up with a Fosse-esque Burlesque rap.
tess		Nikki, do you even own a watch? Or do you measure time in Patron shots? Ali enters with a tray of drinks. Nikki swipes one.
ali		Hey, no, that's for -- Nikki opens a bottle, pops 3 pills in her mouth, washes them down with the drink, and sets the empty glass on Ali's tray.
tess		Fast-forward, babe. I gotta rebuild Rome in the next two minutes--
ali		Now see-- that's what I've been thinking about. There's one thing I don't get.
tess		Just one?
ali		It's the vocals. You have the girls lip-synching. which is fine, I guess, but wouldn't it be so much better if they actually sang? The Girls trade looks, knowing Ali's overstepping here. Ali doesn't feel the vibe-shift, surges ahead.
sean		Oh, no she didn't? Tess slowly spins around in her chair to face Ali. Peers at her with a supercilious gaze.
tess		"When burlesque started"? Which was...when?
ali		 Oh. Well... this book said it came after...
tess		Vaudeville -- is the word you're looking for. Derived from the 15th- century French expression "voix de ville" -- "voice of the city". Popular songs of the time that were strung together into stage shows. Which, over time, gave birth to another kind of show in which talented girls showing a bit more skin danced, did skits, and, _ yes, sang. In addition to being raunchier, these shows were funnier, hence the new name. "Burlesque": "comical" in French. Ali sees the Girls enjoying this dressing-down immensely. Tess stands, peers down her nose at Ali.
ali		Oh. Ok. It's just-- It's just that ...I CAN sing and--
tess		We can all sing. But they don't come to hear us sing. They come to see the best dancers in town backed by the greatest singers in history.  But tell you what: when you find someone with better pipes than Sarah Vaughn, Billie Holiday and Etta James-- you let me know. She sashays out leaving Ali standing there with what's left of her dignity and an empty cocktail tray. The Girls launch back into prepping for the show.
ali		Georgia? You okay in there? A FLUSH. The stall door opens. Georgia comes out shakily with mascara-smudged eyes, sweet as ever.
georgia		I don't know why they call it morning sickness when it hits at every freakin hour of the day. She rinses her mouth out at the sink.
ali		There aren't many women who could dance the Charleston on a chair at - - what are you, three months? Georgia turns sideways to the mirror, inspecting her bump.
georgia		Four. Can you believe my boyfriend hasn't noticed yet?
ali		You haven't told him?
georgia		I guess as long as he doesn't know, I can still imagine he'll be happy about it.  Oh my God, look what the cat dragged in. She gets to work wiping away her smudged mascara.
ali		You look pretty hot to me. Georgia reaches into her corset, yanks one breast skyward, then does the same to the other.
georgia		Yeah, well -- you take what Mother Nature gave you and milk the hell out of it, right? Coco enters carrying a glass of tonic for Georgia.
ali		I had to pee. Is that okay with you?
coco		Not when you're blocking my mirror it's not. Ali sees she's in the way. As she steps aside:
georgia		I can't make any promises. Coco drags her out, leaving Ali alone. Ali looks at herself in the mirror. Reaches into her shirt and does the boob-hoist that Georgia did. Looks again. Better.
ali		Hey! They tear past her. She shakes her head, reaches her landing, heads down the hall toward her room, then sees: HER HOTEL ROOM DOOR, ajar. The lock broken.
ali		No!!! God damn it!!! She looks out the window, SEES the ROBBERS running off, disappearing down the street. She kicks the trash can. It flies across the room.
jack		Ali? What's wrong? You okay? She tries to speak, but can't -- so she just nods.
jack		Shit. No way!
ali		 Came in -- busted the lock-- and stole all my MO-NEY-EY-EY-EY!!! She sobs--trying to talk, with high-pitched SQUEAKS only heard by birds. Jack winces, trying to follow--
jack		Okay. I have no idea what you just said, but come on in here and we'll get it sorted out. She looks at him. Wiping her tears. He picks up the heaviest of her bags and leads her to:
jack		Have a seat. I'll get us BOTH a drink. Here -- He hands her his phone. She looks at it.
ali		I can't.
jack		Sure you can. Go ahead. Her chin starts quivering all over again.
ali		I.. .don't ...have anyone.
jack		What do you mean?
ali		To call.
jack		No parents?  Siblings? Aunts? Uncles?
ali		Just for one night, I swear. Just till it's light outside and I can figure out my next move.
jack		Deal. Then she opens her small bag and the cat strolls out.
ali		What? You don't like cats? It slinks around his leg. He shakes it off.
jack		I hate cats.
ali		How can you hate a cat?
jack		It's easy, I'll show you. The cat bolts into the bedroom.
ali		He goes outside. We just have to open a window. He's very independent. She opens the window. The cat scurries back in, leaps onto the ledge. Ali pets him. Looks at Jack, smiles.
jack		One night?
ali		One night.
ali		You're good.
jack		Thanks.
ali		Why don't you play at the club?
jack		Make more money bartending.
ali		You in a band?
jack		Was... Guitarist moved to Reno, Drummer went to med school, bassist is in rehab. I'm subbing around town till I regroup. This is for a punk fusion band -- their keyboardist is a flake, so they call me a lot.
jack		Why'd you leave Iowa?
ali		Cause I looked around and realized there wasn't one person whose life I wanted.
jack		Exactly. A beat. Then as he starts playing again:
ali		Hey Jack? He stops again.
jack		Get some sleep.
jack		Aauuuugggghh. He hurls the cat away and bolts out of bed, disgusted.
ali		Morning. Coffee?
ali		She's pretty. Your sister?
jack		My fiancee. Natalie.
ali		Fiancee? You're straight?
jack		Of course I'm straight. You thought I was gay?
ali		Yes?
jack		Why?
ali		I don't know, the...make-up?
jack		It's a look.
ali		Okay.
jack		A straight look.
ali		Okay.
ali		I should put on pants.
jack		Probably. She bolts out to the living room, starts digging through her bag, bent over. She's in the doorway, so from the kitchen, all he can see is her cute little ass sticking out.
ali		Where is she?
jack		New York. Doing a play.
ali		For how long?
jack		Six more weeks. She can't find pants. She shifts, so now her ass is facing him directly. He tries not to look--
jack		For what?
ali		I don't know. Now that you're straight and engaged, it feels weird that I came here.
jack		Well, you did, and it was fine. Aha! Pants. She pulls them out, starts putting them on. He looks out. Her foot is caught in the pants leg. As she hops around, trying to untangle it--
ali		Alrighty then-- I'll get outta your hair now...
jack		Wait, where're you headed?
ali		Oh, don't worry about me. I've got a plan.  Come on, cat. She zips the cat into the bag he came in.
jack		Hang on, let me at least spot you some cash. I'm a little strapped, but I could --
ali		No, I'm good, if you could just She nods at the door. He opens it for her.
jack		Cool. She leaves. He closes the door behind her. Stands there.
jack		So, this plan of yours?
ali		.was to sit here at the bus stop and come up with a plan.
jack		Come back inside.
ali		No, Jack, I--
ali		I'll figure it out, this is not
jack		It's pouring!
ali		It's only water for chrissakes--
ali		Jack-- you've done enough and-- In ONE MOVE he SCOOPS HER up as she lets out a WHOOOOP!
jack		Look, you have nowhere to go, I have a couch. You may as well stay here for a few days.
ali		You really don't need to do that. I'll be fine --
jack		You'll be homeless. You always have this much trouble saying yes when someone is trying to help you?
jack		There's a towel in the bathroom-- dry yourself and that damn cat off.
tess		Okay, front row, thank you very much. They walk off stage, dismissed. Tess turns to Sean.
sean		They're busy "Dancing with the Stars."  Last group, please. HALF A DOZEN DANCERS move to the stage. Ali watches from behind the bar, thinking. Then, on her face, we see: an idea forming. ON THE FLOOR, Tess and Sean check their clipboards, organizing for this next set. They look up and start in:
tess		All right, ladies, and five, six, seven -- whoa. There, in the back row, is Ali, in her white platform shoes.
ali		Trying out.
tess		I don't think so.
ali		Tess, I've been singing and dancing my whole life and--
tess		The girls here have years of training and experience. This stage is for serious and professional
ali		 Hey_. This is your club and you can be as rude as you want--but don't you dare tell me I'm not serious. Sean's eyebrows reach for the ceiling as Nikki enters, SEES Ali on stage.
ali		Which one do you wanna see? Tess looks at her in disbelief.
tess		Tough Lover! Tess plops down in a booth-- crosses her arms indignantly. ON STAGE, the music starts. Ali readies herself, starts to dance. Behind a beat to two. She's got the steps right, but it isn't clicking. She's thinking too hard. No personality. After a few measures, Tess has seen enough.
ali		Hang on.  Start it again, please? As Dave resets the music. Ali regroups: takes her hair down and shakes it loose. Nikki ENTERS, SEES Ali on stage--
coco		Shhhh. On stage, Ali takes a beat; inhales, breathing in attitude. Then she looks up at the booth again.
ali		Anytime. The MUSIC starts in again. And this time, Ali comes alive. She may not have perfect technique or the best extension, but she exudes an ambition and sexuality no one has seen from her before. It's like she becomes a woman before our eyes. She misses a step or two, but who the hell cares? On the floor, Sean gapes, eyes popping. Tess is poker-faced. Coco and Georgia's expressions turn from dubious to respectful. Nikki's eyes narrow. At the bar, Jack freezes, a huge rack of glasses in his arms - - unable to tear his eyes away.
nikki		What are so you happy about, that's your replacement.
georgia		Yeah, but she's really good. Tess and Ali are in a stare down.
tess		I want so badly to say something bitchy, but nothing's coming.
sean		There's a first. Tess sighs, not wanting to give Ali any props.
tess		You were off the whole second half.
ali		So, I was spot on the first half? Tess narrows her eyes at Ali. Then looks over at Nikki, Coco and Georgia. Georgia gives an effusive THUMBS UP-- then suddenly becomes overcome by nausea, covers her mouth and RUNS to the bathroom to puke-- Tess rolls her eyes, looks back at Ali.
tess		Oh, you're gonna be such a pain in my ass. Ali tries hard not to beam--
ali		Do I have the job, or not?
tess		You're not great. What you are is lucky. Because I need someone tonight.
ali		And I know all the routines. As Tess turns and leaves--
tess		Even in those shoes that time forgot.
sean		Theeeere's bitchy. Nikki watches Tess go-- turns and pours herself a shot.
nikki		Well-- this totally sucks ass. Sean jumps up on the stage.
sean		Congratulations. The last time someone showed Tess balls like that, she married him.  You look like a checker at a Mal Wart in Wichita. Just tripled your salary. Get a new look.
ali		Hey, I happen to like the way I look.
sean		Really? That's a fascinating story. And then what happens?
ali		Sorry for the short notice, I quit!  But hey-- with my raise I'll be off your couch in a week. She squeezes him tight-- then heads backstage leaving him standing there, really turned on.
sean		First number, second number, third number... She catches the clothes. He dumps shoes on top of them, holding them up as he tells her what they go with:
sean		Admit it. You like her. It kills you, but you like her. Tess meets his eye, then walks away. The number ends. The girls rush offstage and peel their costumes off.
ali		My tits are up around my ears, my thong's about a mile up up ass, this corset is so tight, I haven't breathed since Tuesday and these lashes are thick enough to kick up a stiff wind.
sean		It's fun being a girl, huh?
jesse		I'm starving, who wants to go grab some pizza before the next show? A general chorus of "Yeah?" and "I'm in." FOLLOW Ali to the bathroom as she throws on her clothes and washes off her make-up, humming "Rich Man's Frug" to herself. She heads back out to the dressing room to find: EVERYONE IS GONE. She looks around. Feels like an fool. She plunks down in a chair. Drops her bag on the floor. Looks at herself in the mirror.
ali		Hey.
tess		Make-up is like wine. The good stuff costs a fortune but is worth every penny. Where is everyone?
ali		All the girls went out for pizza.
tess		Aren't you one of the girls?
ali		Apparently not. Tess reads her like a book. Knows what went down. She turns to leave, then pauses at the door. Turns back.
tess		Don't take it personally. Their love's the kind you gotta earn. Ali meets her eyes in the mirror. Then Tess grabs a brush from her own station, tosses it to Ali.
jack		Your stupid cat peed in the tub!
ali		What...?  You closed the window, what do you expect?
jack		Your cat pees in the house, and it's my_ fault?! Ali scoops the cat up.
ali		Awwww. Poor guy, you must have been desperate.
jack		Goddamn cat. And you used my towel again.  How's that apartment hunting coming? He GRABS the newspaper and tosses it in front of her-- she glares at him, then glances at the paper--
jack		Can you really put a price on privacy? Freedom? Your own bathroom? With clean towels?
ali		Okay, Jack-- I get it-- His cell phone rings. As he checks who's calling:
jack		Natalie.  Hey, baby, how are you? He heads into the bedroom, closes the door. Ali shakes her head, begins to peruse the classifieds.
ali		Guest studio, Hollywood, $900, with a yard, and -- oh. No pets.  Screw them. She scans the ads some more. Finds a good one.
jack		Go to Hell, turn left, it's three miles down on the right.
ali		Really. How's Beachwood Canyon?
jack		Great, if you have a car.
ali		What about the "God damn" cat?
jack		Hey, I don't like the cat. And I don't like my towel being wet. I don't like the lack of privacy. But you're in a jam -- and I'm the kind of guy, if a friend's in trouble, I help. It's just who I am.
jack		Nothing, you know just... hi. She narrows her eyes at him. He concedes.
ali		Ah-hah.
jack		So if you could stick around and chip in, it would --
ali		Save your ass?
jack		-- help. Ali looks down at his shoes.
ali		Well, will you look at that? The shoe, on the other foot!
ali		One minute I'm a freeloader with a God damn cat, the next, I'm the only thing standing between you and
jack		Just -- yes or no?
ali		What's the proposal, exactly? Jack looks at her-- realizes he's screwed.
jack		The bedroom, with private bathroom access, for 600 a month, including utilities.
ali		Closet?
jack		Half . Ali picks up the paper, reads an ad.
ali		Ooh, look! Hot tub!
jack		Fine. The closet, too. She weighs it. Makes him suffer. Then:
ali		Okay.
jack		Thank you.
tess		But you can bet your sweet ass I'm better ONCE than I ever was... The crowd laughs. Tess points to a woman who isn't laughing.
sean		The distributor's holding back the booze unless we cut him a check.
tess		Ply him with drinks, send Scarlett over to flirt, and try to finagle him down to a half.
sean		How's a third? He produces a check, all filled-out, for her to sign.
tess		Have I told you lately that I love you?
sean		Got any brothers?
tess		Drinking already?
nikki		Yes, Mommie.
tess		You're drunk.
nikki		No. But I'm working on it. Nikki totters a little. Tess looks her over.
tess		I'm pulling you from this number. Go home, wring yourself out, and come back tomorrow.
nikki		You can't pull me-- Tess SPOTS Ali heading for the dressing room--
tess		Ali! Take Nikki's spot.
nikki		WHAT?! That bitch can't dance my part!
tess		Ali-- get dressed NOW! Ali looks at Nikki-- who GLARES at her--
ali		But, wait-- Tess-- that's always been Nikki's number. Tess looks at her-- she's really had it with these girls--
tess		But this is MY club, and now it's your number. Ali looks between the two of them, Nikki glaring at her--
the stage		Ali and the other dancers hit the stage and start in on the vampy "TOUGH LOVER." AT THE BAR, Jack is busy mixing drinks. He glances at the stage, then DOUBLE-TAKES on Ali, looking crazy gorgeous. She vamps forward with the girls, they rotate singing into the prop mic.
nikki		Tess needs you. She said it was urgent.
dave		I can't leave here now --
nikki		Fine, but don't say I didn't warn you...
dave		Shit, okay -- He checks his sound board -- then bolts from the room. Nikki watches him go LOOKS DOWN onto the STAGE as ALI STEPS to
dave		You wanted to see me? ON STAGE -- Ali looks at flustered Tess...the girls...the audience. Panic. On the floor, Nikki watches with satisfaction as she makes her way over to Marcus. Enjoying the train wreck she caused. Then -- in a flash, Ali turns to the audience, and SINGS a'capella from the TOP OF THE SONG.
tess		 Close the Goddman curtain!
sean		Hold on... Ali starts to sing again, her version, slow, and sexy...
ali		Tess, when the music stopped--
tess dave		Why didn't you tell me you I have no idea what happened. could blow like that?
tess		Do you boys know all the music?
tess		Okay, then. Tomorrow night, Ali sings lead, everyone else is back- up. Questions? Ali can't keep from beaming as she shakes her head, no!
nikki		"People don't come to hear us sing."
tess		No. But they'll come to hear her sing. Dry out and maybe you can back her up. She leaves. Nikki scowls. Sean grabs Ali.
sean		Bitch, you SANG that damn song! He heads off to the dressing room, too, leaving Nikki and Ali alone together. Their eyes meet.
nikki		One of us has clearly underestimated the other. She tosses her glass in the trash and leaves Ali alone.
marcus		Where'd you learn to sing like that? She turns. Marcus is there. Handsome, charming and devious as ever.
ali		You can't learn to sing like that.
marcus		Well, you're too good to be singing here.
ali		I just got into the show and suddenly I'm too good for it? Shrugs, "but, you are" then--
marcus		How about a drink?
ali		Sure. Jack's at the bar. Tell him I sent you. It's on me.
marcus		But I hate lines. AT THE BAR - Jack looks up, SEES Ali and Marcus talking. BACK ON MARCUS who looks Ali up and down.
ali		Talk about a "line." She smiles, amused, and heads away from him, toward the bar. He watches her go. Tess intercepts Ali.
tess		What did he want?
ali		Directions to the bar. As Ali heads off. Tess glances back at Marcus, mistrustful.
jack		You blew me away! Who knew you could sing like that?
coco		Who knew any white chick could sing like that? You channeled that shit.
sean		How the hell do you do that, girl?
ali		I don't know, I can't explain it. It's like -- I start singing, and something starts to move inside me. It's in my hands, my feet, my gut,
my thighs		She runs her hands over her body as she describes it. Jack watches her -- holy smokes. Sean notices his gaze on her.
georgia		Trust me, I know what that feels like. I have to pee. Again. She hops off the stool and scurries to the back. Coco stands, to leave. Looks at Ali.
coco		Wanna grab something to eat? Ali looks back at Coco -- validated. Accepted. At last.
ali		Yeah. Lemme get my bag. Ali moves off. Coco goes to get her coat. Sean sees Jack still watching Ali as she walks across the room.
sean		Well, will you look at that.
jack		What?
sean		You looking at that girl the way I looked at you all those years. Only difference: you actually stand a chance with her.
jack		I have a fiancee.
sean		Three thousand miles away.
jack		We talk every day.
sean		Let me guess what about: her, her and...oh! Her. Jack shoots him a glare.
ali		What?
sean		I was just explaining to Jack that even opportunity has a shelf life. Jack grabs a trash bag and takes it out back. Sean looks at Ali more closely. He brushes her hair out of her face. Then he holds it off her shoulders and raises that gay eyebrow. - INT. SALON - DAY - Ali sits in front of a mirror while Sean gives the HAIRDRESSER very specific instructions. - INT. JACK'S APARTMENT, AT HIS KEYBOARD, Jack plays a high- energy style piano which runs over a QUICK SEQUENCE: It's the instrumental music to: "BUT I'M A GOOD GIRL." - INT. BURLESQUE LOUNGE - The Burlesque Girls dance on stage, performing a high-energy tap dance, coupled with a European slap-dance, with the slapping of each other's bodies and faces integrated with tapping and music. It's very cabaret, but modernized with contemporary STEPPING. CARRY MUSIC: - INT. SALON - LATER - The HAIRDRESSER spins the chair around. Ali's her hair is platinum blonde, with bangs and a Louise Brooks bob that frames her face beautifully. Her smoky eyes pop like never before. Ali studies herself:
ali		Where have I been all my life?
ali		Jack. It's okay for you to think I look hot. We're friends for chrissakes. It's not like we're brother and sister.
nikki		Why the hell is everyone having a conniption over her? She's just a tacky, pushy girl from a -- Ali -- sexy, sophisticated, gorgeous -- enters.
tess		Vince, if I were going to sell, I'd have sold to those idiots building that monstrosity across the street. I said no.
vince		Which made Marcus bump his offer up again. It's obscene, what he wants to give us. At least hear him out.
marcus		It's very simple. I buy you out and pay you a million off the top.  Five hundred grand each. Tess looks up from the contract, squints at Marcus.
tess		Why do you want this club so badly?
marcus		Best view on the Sunset Strip.
vince		Do you know what you could do with that money, Tess?
tess		Do you know what you can do with that money, Vince?
vince		Be reasonable. We're rolling vendors ninety days out.
marcus		The club's not even worth what you paid for it. You've got a second mortgage, you can't get a third. Tess looks at Vince, betrayed.
tess		Did you also tell him about the tattoo on my ass?
vince		It's business, Tess. Not personal.
tess		My business. Which I built from the ground up.
marcus		You're not gonna get another opportunity like this.
tess		Exactly. She looks at a photo on her wall: the Burlesque Girls, in all their glory.
vince		Don't worry. The balloon payment's due on the first. She doesn't have the money. She has to sell. IN TESS'S OFFICE, Tess stands in the doorway, having heard. Then she walks back to her desk and sits, dejected. Head in her hands. For the first time ever, looking worried and defeated. Something she'd never show anyone. A beat. Then:
sean		Well. We've had a pretty good run. She looks up. Sean is in the doorway.
tess		No. You cannot say that to me. I can eat these "sky is falling" dipshits for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, but not YOU. You cannot be that person. I've scoured dirty flea markets for costumes, stayed up all night sewing till my fingers bled, painted and repainted every goddamn wall of this place myself.
sean		There she is. Thought I'd lost you for a minute. Tess just looks at him, and smiles. He grabs a boa, throws it around his neck and exits. When he's gone, Tess's smile fades. IN THE CLUB, the place is empty. Jack is wiping down the bar cleaning up. He starts stacking some chairs in the house as..SEAN CROSSES the floor.
jack		Night. Sean EXITS as Jack carries a stack of chairs to the side of the room, sets them down near the piano. STOPS, grabs a chair for himself and sits down. Begins to play an original song. ACROSS THE ROOM, Ali ENTERS from backstage. Her dance bag over her shoulder. She HEARS the piano, peers around a column, SEES Jack playing. She stays in the shadows and watches as he sings and plays a beautiful song.  The song ends. Ali applauds slowly. Impressed. Jack looks up, surprised that she is there.
ali		Beautiful. You write that?
jack		Just some sentimental crap. Ready?
ali		Jack? Jack zips back to the door, opens it quietly, then SLAMS it.
jack		Hey! Just got home! Ali grabs a dress from her bed, slips into it.
ali		In here! Can you zip me up? In a nanosecond-- Jack enters the bedroom.
jack		Rehearsing. I'm playing a late show tonight. As he zips up the back of her dress, he sees the PHOTO propped against the lamp on the bedside table.
ali		Me and my mom on my 7th birthday. She died just a few weeks later.
jack		She was so young.
ali		24. There was so much she never got to do. Sometimes I feel like, if I make the most of my life, part of her will get to live a little more, too.
jack		Wow. You must miss her. She puts the photo down. Turns back to him. They're close.
ali		Every single day, something happens I want to tell her about.
jack		What was today's? A beat. Their eyes connect.
ali		Don't know. Hasn't happened yet. They stand there, close to each other. Jack sees a strand of hair caught in the earring. He pulls it away, freeing it. His fingers move through her hair. She closes her eyes, feeling his fingers against her neck. Then she opens her eyes, looks at him. He looks back, unable to look away. Until: His CELL PHONE RINGS. Breaking the mood. He pulls it from his pocket. Checks who's calling. Looks back at Ali.
jack		I should... it's... Natalie. Ali steps away from him, disappointed. He answers the phone.
ali		Hey -- when can you cut out? I'm about to fall asleep standing up.
jack		I have that gig, remember? In fact, I gotta head out or I'm gonna be late.  I can maybe swing you home before.
ali		No, that's okay, you go. I'll grab a ride with Coco. He grabs his jacket from under the bar. As he heads out:
jack		By the way -- you killed.
ali		 Thanks.
marcus		You ready?
ali		For what?
marcus		I'll drop you off.
ali		Excuse me?
marcus		Sorry-- I was coming to talk to you and caught the end of your conversation.
ali		 Talk to me about...?
marcus		Dinner. With me. Gimmie that. He swoops down and GRABS her dance bag and purse, turns and heads out.
ali		Hey...! Come back here...!
ali		Where are you taking me?
marcus		I told you-- to dinner.
ali		Dinner? What about Nikki-- What's up with you and Nikki?
marcus		We're friends.
ali		Where I'm from friends don't chew each other's earlobes.
marcus		Aren't you glad you left?  Oh, damn!
ali		What?
marcus		I just remembered I have to make a quick appearance at a party.
ali		You just remembered.
marcus		It's on the way. We'll be quick. Ten minutes, tops. Do you mind?
ali		And if I do.
marcus		Then you've been kidnapped. He turns off Sunset and heads up into the hills.
ali		Wow. Nice house.
party guest		Hey, Marcus --
marcus		Hey, how you doing? He shakes the guy's hand and moves on through the party. Someone else calls out to him.
another guest		Marcus!
marcus		Hey, let me get a drink, I'll be
ali		Marcus -- you can't just take that.
ali		They're gonna throw us out of here.
marcus		Not if we sneak out first, come on. He kicks open a back door.
marcus		Up there. He starts up some steps to an outdoor gazebo. Ali follows. They pass AN INCREDIBLY WELL-DRESSED COUPLE coming down.
guy		Hey, Marcus --
marcus		Hey, Guys. Greg, Marla, this is Ali. They exchange hellos. Ali notices:
ali		Ooh. Killer shoes.
marla		Aren't they? Louboutins.
marcus		Glad you could come. Ali stares at Marcus. He smiles, takes her hand, keeps leading her up the stairs.
marcus		Would've been rude not to, right? You'd like those guys. Greg's the entertainment editor at the Times, and Marla's a designer. Ali glances back at Marla again, locks in on her shoes.
marcus		Thousand dollars a pop.
marcus		I can.
ali		Hey, I saw them first. He laughs as they reach the top of the stairs and a BREATHTAKING PANORAMIC VIEW OF THE ENTIRE CITY is revealed. Ali pauses, taking in the glittering, massive view of L.A.
marcus		It should. That view cost me three times what the house did.
ali		You own that too?
marcus		No. I own everything above it.
ali		There is nothing above it.
marcus		Exactly.
ali		You own...air?
marcus		Air rights. The guy who owns the strip mall was having money issues and almost had to sell. Whoever he sold to would have put in a huge tower. So I bought the air rights. Now no one can ever build above one story.
ali		Aren't you the sly puss.
marcus		Mall guy gets to keep his property. I get to keep the second best view in L.A.
ali		What's the first? He gazes at her. She rolls her eyes.
marcus		None who ever called me on it. He smiles. Looks at her. Then...
ali		Why?
marcus		Because you're talented enough to get whatever you want. And I'm smart enough to help make it happen. So? What do you want? A beat. She thinks about it. Looks him in the eye.
ali		I want to be the best singer I can be. I want to give as much joy as I get when I perform. And I want to die knowing I made the most of every opportunity life gave me.
marcus		That's ...so beautiful.
marcus		Why do you women always take advantage of nice boys?
ali		Oh, please. You are SO not a nice boy. He clinks her glass. Smiles at her. Devilish and sexy.
ali		Ooh, I love this song. The Piano Player scoots to make room. She sits beside him. He starts humming along. She does too. Then he sings a line. She sings one back. And they fall in together. Not vamping, not performing. Just feeling the beauty of the music in the middle of the night.
jack		Ali? He looks in. Empty. He checks the clock: 4:45. He hears a "meow", and sees the cat. He picks it up, turns out the light, and leaves the room.
coco		Someone has a package! Ali sees A GIFT BOX at her station. She reads the card: "You saw them first." She opens the box and sees the Louboutins.
jesse		Ooh. Faboo. Nikki picks one up -- checking their authenticity.
nikki		Who's the sucker? All eyes turn to Ali. She's saved by Tess entering.
tess		Coco-puff, shake a leg, you're on in five, Georgie-Girl, Ali-Cat -- move, move, move -- Tess exits.
ali		Ahh. My Nanna used to call me her Ali-Cat.
sean		Yet another fascinating story.
nikki		Why doesn't Tess have a nickname for me?
coco		Oh, she does. A knowing look amongst the girls.
nikki		She never uses it.
sean		Sure she does.
nikki		When?
sean		Just after you leave the room. Nikki gives him the finger and walks out. A beat. Then:
girls together		Coke-whore. They crack up. CUE MUSIC: "STRANGE THINGS HAPPENING"
jack		You were out late last night.
ali		I got a ride home with that guy-- Marcus-- we went to a party. It was fun.
jack		Marcus the Asshole?
ali		Yeah. Turns out he's not so bad. She heads past him, toward the kitchen. He notices:
jack		New shoes?
jack		There's only one reason a man buys a woman shoes, you know.
ali		So what if I'm getting a little male attention.
jack		You get a lot more than a little.
ali		Not from anyone who matters.
jack		Hey. Have you seen this?
ali		What? Ali wanders out of the bathroom, brushing her teeth. He shows her the paper. She SCREAMS.
nikki		That's bullshit.
scarlett		No. That's major.
nikki		 Ali smiles. Embarrassed. She curtsies sarcastically. Coco points to a BOUQUET OF ROSES at Ali's station.
coco		From Monsieur Louboutin, I presume. Ali reads the card: "To the best view in L.A. - M". Sean shoves her down in her seat, pulls her coat off.
sean		Shake your tail, Alicat, you still got a show to do.
marcus		To the girl of the hour.
ali		I'm starting to think you'll go to any length.
ali		Well-- I appreciate the kudos.  And Tess appreciates the business.
marcus		This has NOTHING to do with Tess. This is about you. And me.
ali		You are so full of it. He laughs-- takes her arm--
marcus		I've got another friend I want you to meet. She sees HAROLD SAINT sitting in the booth. He's in his 60's, still dressing like Robert Evans in his heyday.
harold		Her, she chewed me up and spat me out, that one. But with her voice, I forgive her everything.
ali		Thank you.
harold		You ever recorded?
ali		Not yet.
harold		We should do something about that. He stands. Turns to Marcus.
ali		Holy shit. Harold Saint. AT THE BAR, Jack watches Ali and Marcus talking excitedly. Not liking what he sees. Sean breezes by, grabs a drink.
sean		You snooze, you lose, pretty boy.
tess		Can you believe this crowd? He dumps the costumes in her arms.
sean		'bout time. These poor babies are begging for your glue-gun. Tess walks off with the armful of clothes, so happy, humming to herself, passes her OFFICE-- OPENS the door to SEE-- VINCE is sitting at her desk. He flinches at the sight of her-
tess		Can you believe the crowd out there? Never thought I'd see- She stops in her tracks, spotting Vince's PANTS on the FLOOR, and a TRAIL OF WOMEN'S CLOTHES to... THE NEW COCKTAIL WAITRESS, peering out, half-dressed, from behind the curtains--
nikki		Tess. We need to talk. Tess rolls her eyes, doesn't slow.
tess		Not now, Nikki.
nikki		Yes, now. I've been here since the beginning. We built this club together. And then some girl shows up out of nowhere-- who hasn't even paid her dues--
tess		I'll get her to write a check tomorrow.
nikki		And suddenly it's her show?
tess		No, it's not her show. It's my show. But people want to hear her sing. She's bringing them in off the streets. You better believe I'm building a show around her!
nikki		I can sing too! And you know it. But you don't give a shit. You always say this is a dance troupe, now suddenly it's not?
nikki		And you expect me to dance behind a girl who struts in with a new pair of shoes she got for sleeping with Marcus Gerber?
tess		 Nikki, you're wasted. Go home.
nikki		I won't be upstaged by some slut with mutant lungs! Tess hurls the costumes in the trunk of her car, furious.
tess		So don't be! Leave! If you don't want to be a part of what's happening here, then I don't want you around.
tess		Since when do you care about friendship? Or this group? You're a trainwreck, Nikki! You put tequila on your breakfast cereal! I'm struggling to survive here, and you show up too drunk to dance! You call that loyalty? Nikki just looks at her--
nikki		Okay, then. I quit! Nikki stomps off. Tess sighs --
nikki		Marcus says you're losing the club anyway!
tess		Night, Dave. Dave FLIPS a big lever, and almost all the lights go OUT, leaving one shaft of light across the stage. We HEAR Dave leave, as the street door closes shut. Tess alone on stage.
ali		You really need to do that at 6 in the morning? He turns, sees her.
jack		Little overdressed for breakfast.
ali		My pajamas were in my bedroom. Which was occupied.
jack		Well, you're never here so... it's stupid for me to crash on the couch every night when there's a perfectly good empty bed. Jack grinds the coffee beans again. Ali winces.
ali		So -- you want the bedroom back? Is that what you're saying?
jack		The bed should be used by someone.
ali		Hey, I'm home every night. Maybe not when you think I should be, but last I checked, you were my roommate, not my mother.
jack		Fine.
ali		Fine.
jack		You'll have to move all your shit.
ali		I realize that.
jack		Cause the room's a total mess --
ali		I'll move my stuff, God --
jack		Clothes, make-up, shoes, hair things.
ali		Jesus, Jack, what is your problem? Ever since I started hanging out with Marcus, you've been acting like a class-A prick. Is there something you want to say?
jack		What? No. What do I care? You're ambitious, he can make things happen, go ahead, make a deal with the devil, what's it to me?
ali		First of all: He's not the devil. He's a smart businessman. And oddly enough-- a gentleman.
jack		And try not to kill the cat!
jack		What do you mean, you're still in New York? ...So you just -- decided not to come? You think you might've wanted to, I don't know, let me know??? We haven't seen each other in six months. ACROSS THE TERRACE, Ali sees Jack yelling into his phone. Sean sees her watching.
sean		Oh, please, that girl? Show up at a party where she's not the center of attention? AT THE BAR - LATER - Jack drains one drink and orders another, getting very drunk. Ali sidles up to the bar.
ali		Hey-- what're we, in junior high?
jack		You still mad at me, Iowa? C'mon. Bring it on. She starts to say something as-- THE SHIRELLES start to sing "BABY IT'S YOU"-- Jack turns to the DJ, points both fingers at him and YELLS:
ali		Well, you're quite the crooner. He looks her in the eye.
jack		I'm sorry for being a class A prick. Ali smiles, surprised at his candor. He breathes a sigh of relief.
ali		You and Natalie split up?
jack		That we did. So. That explains what I'm doing here all alone. What are you doing here all alone?
ali		Do I look alone to you? They share a look. Then he spins her around in his arms. She laughs. AT THE BAR, tipsy Sean and Coco stand side-by-side. Coco is watching the DJ spin. The DJ glances down at them.
coco		That DJ's hot.
sean		You think?
coco		He keeps looking at me. Coco smiles up at him, flirty. The DJ smiles back.
jack		Whoopsie daisy?
ali		My Nanna used to say that all the time. That and upsie jumpsie.
jack		Upsie jumpsie?  Upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie, whoopsie daisy, upsie jumpsie --
ali		When she wanted her dog to get on the bed with her. That is --
jack		 The dog, or Nanna? Ali bursts out laughing. So does Jack, as he pushes the door open, and they fall into the apartment.
ali		Help me. Jack gets the lamp to standing, then grabs one of Ali's boots, slides it off, dumps it. Then he tries the second -- it sticks -- he pulls harder -- the boot pops off and he careens backwards, crashing into the lamp, knocking it over again. Ali cracks up. He turns to the lamp.
jack		 Stay. He turns back to Ali, regains composure, bows
ali		Oh. Okay.
jack		A gift from my mother. Never worn them.
ali		Go figure. Jack walks past Ali, toward the door.
jack		Forgot to lock up.
ali		Night again. He walks back into the bedroom and once gain shuts the door. Ali smiles to herself, plumps her pillow. The door flies open again -- Jack's there in just the pants, no top.
jack		Water. No hangover. He stumbles past Ali to the kitchen, drinks from the tap. After a moment he returns to the bedroom, nodding to Ali.
ali		What?
jack		What?
ali		You are definitely not gay. He smiles at her, drunk with lust. CAMERA PANS UP AND OFF OF
jack		I've been wanting to do this since you first walked in the club. She cocks an eyebrow at him.
ali		Sure got a funny way of showing it. He smiles at her.
jack		I'll show you an even funnier way -- you ready? He disappears under the sheets. She SQUEALS, starts laughing hysterically. CAMERA PANS UP AND OFF OF THEM THEN DRIFTS
jack		Natalie who? Ali smiles. Rolls the stocking up over her shapely thigh, then slowly takes it off. Looks at Jack. He strikes his chest, struck by cupid--
jack		Natalie! Ali blinks awake. Confused.
ali		Natalie? Jack scrambles for something to put on.
natalie		YOU are a LIAR. You're a sneaky, pathetic LI-AR!
ali		 What 's she doing here:
jack		I don't know!
natalie		I LIVE HERE, you bleached out tramp, what the hell are YOU doing here?!!
jack		 Nat, can we talk about this in the living room --
natalie		I can't BELIEVE I bought your bullshit: "It's nothing, she's just this chick from work, she's nothing."
ali jack		You said that? No, I didn't --
ali natalie		Jack?!? Don't even say his name! As Ali grabs for a shirt--
jack		Listen, Ali-- let me just-- would you mind --
ali		What?!?
jack		Giving us a little privacy?
natalie		Yes you! I'm the fiancee. You're a booty call. You go.
jack		Natalie, Jesus, STOP IT! Ali grabs some pants from the floor, pulls them on.
ali		Fine, I'm out of here--  You said you split up!
natalie		In one phone call? Please, you don't dump a girl like me on the phone.
jack		Both of you-- STOP IT! As Ali quickly grabs a few things--
ali		So am I. She gathers up more things, really pissed--
jack		Wait-- do you need money for a Motel or... Ali stifles him with an incredulous glare-- can't believe how this is going down. She looks at him, so incredibly hurt. Grabs her suitcase and brushes past him, stuffing her belongings into it. Jack goes after her--
ali		Oh. I'm sorry. I think I have the wrong apartment. I'm looking for Sean?  Brown hair? 5'10n? Early 30's?
dj		Oh, Sean! I thought he said John. He's asleep. Come in.
sean		What are you doing here?
ali		Long story. Sean notices the guy in the blanket.
sean		Ali, this is Mike.
dj		Mark.
sean		Mark???
ali		I'll make it. You two get acquainted.
ali		Oh. Marcus.
ali		Mark. Or Mike. Jury's still out.
ali		Only if you had your eye on Sean.
ali		Mmm. Maybe a little.
ali		What's that?
ali		Haven't you heard? No is the new yes.
sean		Well. Bye.
mark		You... Take care. Sean. Mark turns, heads down the stairs as Jack rushes up, calling:
jack		Is Ali here?
mark		Just left. Mark continues down. Jack whips around, looks at him, then up at Sean, who nods.
jack		Where'd she go?
sean		With Marcus.
jack		What?
sean		I told you, opportunity doesn't knock forever. Jack burns, frustrated, then heads slowly down the stairs. Sean shakes his head and turns to go back inside. Then pauses, noticing: Mark, looking up at Sean's apartment, hesitating. Then he opens his car to get in. Sean stands there, realizing he's doing the same thing. He steps onto the stairwell. Calls out:
sean		Mark. You wanna have breakfast? Off Mark's smile:
marcus		My mother always said there's only one thing to do when you're feeling blue... He opens the fridge and pulls out a bottle of CHAMPAGNE.
ali		She was a poet.
marcus		And a drunk. Ali smiles. Marcus pops the cork, fills two glasses, hands her one. Clinks.
ali		What new place?
marcus		All yours.  Unpack. Move in.
ali		Marcus, I can't just--
marcus		Sure you can. Marcus plops her suitcase on the bed.
ali		It's not even on the bus route.
marcus		Okay, that is the first and last time the term "bus route" will be spoken in this house.  Four cars. Which do you want?
marcus		Better?
marcus		You're gonna be on one of those someday.
ali		Yeah, right.
marcus		Sooner than you think, too. Harold Saint called me today. You made quite an impression on him.
ali		Really? What'd he say?
marcus		He wants to make a demo with you.
ali		Are you serious? When??
marcus		He found a little studio time on Tuesday.
ali		This Tuesday?
marcus		Too soon?
ali		No! Oh my god, no, that's amazing. You're amazing.
marcus		I like making you happy. Your whole face lights up. Their eyes meet. He pushes some hair out of her face.
ali		I think you're way too nice to me.
marcus		And that's a problem because...
ali		I've had a lot to drink. And my judgment is off. He touches her face, their chemistry palpable.
marcus		Hey, I'm a gentleman. Which means I'd never kiss a lady when she's... vulnerable.
ali		Liar. She leans in and impulsively pulls him into a kiss.
ali		Where am I? She sees a Warhol-esque PRINT OF MARCUS on the wall. She raises her brows then sees her disheveled reflection in a huge mirror: smeared mascara, hair askew.
marcus		Morning.
ali		What is this?
marcus		Now it's a model. But when it grows up, it'll be a mixed-use space: retail and residential.
ali		This is the address of the Burlesque Lounge. Marcus shrugs, dries his hair.
marcus		Best view on the Sunset Strip, with no windows. When I'm done with it, it'll have a thousand.
ali		You can't tear down the club.
marcus		Actually, I can.
ali		But what about the history? That place is a landmark.
marcus		Not according to the city.
ali		Does Tess know about this?
marcus		What Tess knows and doesn't know isn't a big concern of mine.
ali		What makes you think she would ever sell the Lounge?
marcus		She has no choice. She's going under.
ali		But that club is her life!
marcus		Oh, come on, you get this. It's business. It's not personal.
ali		Not personal? It's pretty god damn personal for Tess! And Coco and Sean and Alexis. And what about Jesse? And Dave the lighting guy?
ali		And what about me? It's pretty God damn personal to me. She turns to leave.
marcus		Where are you going?
ali		To the club. Where I work. She marches out of the room, resolute--
marcus		Ali-- wait!!! At the door she turns back and looks at him. As he starts to speak, she SLAMS the door shut as we HEAR "THAT'S LIFE".
sean		How'd it go?  Oh, shit.
tess		Right now? Get really drunk. THE FRONT DOORS OPEN, and Ali ENTERS, spots Tess, rushes over to her.
ali		Tess! I have to talk to you! Tess keeps walking.
ali		So that's it? It's over?
sean		The circle of life, baby. All good things must come to an end.
ali		But she can't just give up!
sean		She's not giving up. She's going down with her ship. With dignity. Ali sits on a barstool, in disbelief.
ali		Where'd you get this?
sean		Jack. He dropped it off on his way to the airport.
ali		Where's he going?
sean		New York on the red-eye.
ali		To be with Natalie?
sean		Pedal faster, baby, he and Natalie are over. You're the one he's been looking high and low for.
sean		 Get your ass over to LAX and ask him yourself! Ali nods, jumps up from her stool, and races for the door, then stops, realizing:
ali		I don't have a -- Sean tosses her his CAR KEYS.
sean		American to JFK. Go! Ali catches the keys and TAKES OFF. - EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT - Ali  peels out of the lot, weaving through traffic as she lifts her cell. - INT. AIRPORT - NIGHT - CLOSE SHOT: a CELL PHONE in a plastic bowl moves through a security X-ray machine.
jack's voice		This is Jack. Leave me a message. FIND Jack on the other side, as his belongings come down the conveyor belt. He grabs them, turns off his cell. - EXT. STREET - NIGHT - ALI skids through a light, veers past cars. - INT. CONCOURSE - NIGHT Jack reaches gate 43, sees a long line. Gets in back. - INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - NIGHT - Ali bolts through the front door, frantically checks the DEPARTURES MONITOR. Finds: NEW YORK JFK, GATE 43: NOW BOARDING. - INT. TERMINAL - NIGHT - Ali races up the escalator, approaching SECURITY.
security guy		Boarding pass?
security guy		No one's allowed past this point without a boarding pass.
ali		But I have to speak to him!
security guy		I'm sorry, miss.
security guy		There's Gate 43, right over there.
jack		What are you doing here?
ali		Sean told me you're going to New York. Please don't go!
jack		I have to. I got an offer from that band -- the Punk Fusion group. They want me to tour with them.
ali		Really?
jack		They finally had it with the flaky keyboardist. I'll be back in five weeks. Will you be here?
ali		Yes! Yes. Absolutely.
jack		What about Marcus?
ali		.Marcus who? They share a smile, separated by the ropes.
jack		I'm trying to figure out if I should kiss you now, or make you wait five weeks.
ali		Five weeks?! That's forever!
jack		I gotta go, that's me. He picks up his bags. It's killing Ali.
jack		But then I'll miss my flight!
ali		Well, go get 'em, Jack. He smiles, then disappears into the crowd. Ali stands there, watching him, gobsmacked by the kiss.
tess		Smoother than honey and twice as sweet. Each girl lovelier then the next. Gentlemen, hold onto your hats. Ladies, hold on to your gentlemen. We may not have windows.. .but we DO have...  ON ALI-- a lightbulb going on! As Tess exits the stage, Ali pushes through the crowd and races backstage.
ali		Tess!
tess		You could knock-- this is still my office--at least for another 48
ali		But this is really, really -- Tess holds up a hand.
tess		Not. Now.
tess		I said -- NOT --
ali		Yes now! God damn, you are one stubborn mule of a woman. Anyone else in their right mind would have figured out by now, when I have something to tell you, you listen! I told you I could dance, did you listen? No. Big mistake. I told you I could sing, did you listen? No. Big. mistake. This time you are going to hear what I have to say if I have to tie you up with your corset strings and scream it in your God damn ear. For the first time someone silences Tess. Ali takes a breath.
tess		You offered to buy my club a few years back. I said no.
businessman		And now you've changed your mind.
tess		Not exactly. Tess smiles at him. Looks at Ali, who's not smiling. She elbows her. Ali starts smiling. Tess walks up to the desk and sits herself down. Ali does the same.
businessman		I'm confused.
tess		Go with me, there's a good ending, I promise. How much will these condos you're building sell for?
businessman		They start at one million and go up, depending on the view.
tess		What if I told you a twenty-story high-rise was going up where my club is?
ali		Ten stories would. Twenty would decimate them. Leaving behind a lot of angry homeowners staring across the street at fluorescent light bulbs and dirty windows.
tess		So. Mr. ?
businessman		Anderson.
tess		Mr. Anderson. Your pretty million- dollar ocean views are going away because I'm selling my building to a developer tomorrow who'll have his twenty stories all framed up by the time you start selling --
ali		Trying to sell--
tess		Trying to sell these condos.
businessman		I'm listening.
tess		As am I. As long as you're telling me you'll have a check to me by 5:00 today.
cocktail waitress		Sorry, baby, they cut you off at the bar. Said you have to pay cash.
vince		What? I co-own this goddamn place--
tess		Not anymore you don't. I'm buying you out.
vince		You can't do that.
tess		Actually, according to page 4 of our contract, I can.
tess		Why postpone joy? She hands him a CASHIER'S CHECK. Vince stares at it.
vince		What the hell is this?
tess		I realize it's been a while since you've seen one, but it's called a check. He stares at it, stunned.Then at her.
vince		Where'd you get this?
tess		Not your business anymore. And neither is the lounge.
ali		How'd that feel?
tess		Not half bad.
ali		And to think, you didn't even want me around.
tess		Oh, Jesus, here it comes.
ali		.What was it you said to me that first night? "Twenty bucks at the door will make all your dreams come true." That was sweet of you.
tess		Are you finished?
ali		 Kinda ironic, when you think about it. I started off begging you to make my dreams come true, and here we are --
tess		All right already! You want me to say it, I'll say it. She looks at her.
tess		Again.
nikki		Again, and I wanna come home--
nikki		Yes, again! Did you fill my spot or what...?
tess		What do you think? Tess and Nikki share a look.
ali		Just like that?
tess		If I had a dollar for every time she's quit...
ali		Really?
tess		We all fight. Bitch. Love and hate. And then make up. Just like sisters.
ali		I never had a sister.
tess		Me neither. THANK GOD.
****Dialogues from script :Burn_After_Reading.txt****

palmer		Ozzie.    Sit down.
osbourne		Palmer.   What's up.
palmer		You know Peck, and Olson.
osbourne		Peck, yes, hiya. Olson, by reputation. Hi, Osbourne Cox.
olson		Yeah, hiyah.
osbourne		Aren't you with...aren't you, uh...
palmer		Yeah, that's right. Oz, look. There's no easy way to say this. We're taking you off the Balkans desk.
osbourne		You're----what? Why?
palmer		In fact we're moving you out of Sigint entirely.
osbourne		...What?    No discussion, just----you're out?
palmer		Well, we're having the discussion now Oz. This doesn't have to be unpleasant.
osbourne		Palmer, with all due respect----what the fuck are you talking about?
palmer		... Look, Ozzie----
osbourne		What the fuck is this?!     Is it my----I know it's not my work.
palmer		Ozzie----
osbourne		I'm a great fucking analyst!     Is it----
palmer		Oz, things are not going well.      As you know.
peck		You have a drinking problem.
osbourne		I have a drinking problem.
palmer		This doesn't have to be unpleasant. We found you something in State. It's a, uh...
osbourne		 This is an assault.
peck		Come on, Ozzie.
osbourne		This is an assault. I have a drinking problem? Fuck you, Peck, you're a Mormon!
peck		Ozzie----
osbourne		Next to you we all have a drinking problem! Fuck you guys! Whose ass didn't I kiss? Let's be honest!
palmer		Okay, Olson----
osbourne		Let's be fucking honest...
katie		You're home.
osbourne		Hang on to your hat, honey.    I have some news. I----
katie		Did you pick up the cheeses?
osbourne		Huh?
katie		Were they ready? I didn't know you were coming home this early.
osbourne		 The cheeses.
katie		I left a message for you to stop at Todaro's. The Magruders and the Pfarrers are coming over.
osbourne		The Pfarrers? Ugh.    I----what did Kathleen say?
katie		What?
osbourne		When you left the message?
katie		She said.    She would give you.   The message.
osbourne		Well she, I don't know, I guess we had bigger news today. My day didn't revolve arou----
katie		So you didn't get the cheeses.
osbourne		Well, since I didn't get the message, no, I didn't get the cheeses. But hang on to your hat, I----
katie		Oh for fuck's sake, Ozzie, you mean I have to go out again? All right, well, you better get dressed.
osbourne		Honey, we have to talk.
katie		Not right now. They'll be here in, what, less than an hour.
voice		Is this a, uh, goat cheese?
harry		Because I have lactose reflux.    But I can----
osbourne		You're lactose intolerant?
harry		Yes, but I can----
osbourne		Or you have acid reflux?    They're two different things.
harry		I know what they are.
osbourne		Then you misspoke yourself.    So I----
harry		Thank you for correcting me.
katie		You should try the chevre, Harry. It's very good.
harry		Yeah.   I can eat goat cheese.
katie		Harry works with the Marshalls'                       * Service.                                              *
doug magruder		Ah. I'm on the legislative side, I                 * work with Senator Hobby.                           * 
osbourne		If you want he'll show you his great big gun.
harry		Very amusing. The gun is actually no big deal. Twenty years in the marshall's service and I've never discharged my weapon.
osbourne		Sounds like something you should be telling your psychiatrist.
harry		What?   I don't have a psychiatrist.
doug magruder		Boy, I guess my job is pretty undramatic. I'm on the legislative side. What do you do Mrs. Pfarrer? Do you also carry a gun?
harry		Sandy writes children's books.
sandy		I write children's books----
harry		Oliver The Cat Who...Who..arghh----Who----
tina		Those are wonderful!    My nieces and nephews----
harry		Yeah, it's a beloved series. You wouldn't believe her fan mail. Unghh. Are you sure this is goat cheese?
katie		Why don't you let your wife tell them about her own books, Harry?
harry		I'm sorry----was I----
katie		Here, come in the kitchen, help me with the crudits.
harry		Goddamnit.     He knows, doesn't he.
katie		Knows what?
harry		About us, he knows about us.          Little prick.
katie		Don't be an ass, he doesn't know a thing.
harry		What is that, forbo?
harry		What a horse's ass.
sandy		I don't know why we see them.
harry		Well, she's all right.
sandy		She is a cold, stuck-up bitch.
katie		You quit?!
osbourne		Uh-huh.
katie		Well----Thank you for letting me know!
osbourne		I tried to tell you this afternoon.
katie		You tried? You tried? And then---- what, the aphasia kicked in?
osbourne		Our guests came. We----
katie		Why?!    For fuck's sake, Ozzie!
osbourne		I'm just----I don't know.    I got so tired.
katie		You're tired.
osbourne		Tired of swimming against the current.
katie		Uh-huh.
osbourne		Independent thought is not only not valued there, they resist it, they fight it, the bureaucracy is positively----
katie		Did you get a pension, or severance or something, or----
osbourne		I didn't retire you know, I, I quit. I don't want their benefits.
katie		But I suppose my benefits are all right, I suppose you can live with those, is that the idea?
osbourne		It's not like that's the only way to make money.
katie		Yes?    Yes?     What're you gonna do?
osbourne		I'll do some consulting.
katie		Consulting.
osbourne		Yes, to help while I----I've always wanted to write.
katie		Write.    Write what.
osbourne		I've been thinking about it.    A book, a sort of, sort of memoir.  Katie stares at him in the mirror.  A beat.  She bursts into laughter.
osbourne		You okay there, Dad?
terikhian		... I know this kind of man.    We've seen this.
katie		Yes. This is my fear. He's trying---- he says----he's trying to pull himself together, but...
terikhian		Look, sure, I----I'm obliged to tell you you should try to salvage things. And you should. People turn themselves around. Not unheard-of. But. You---- you haven't broached the possibility of divorce yet?
katie		No.
terikhian		Well that's good.   Because first you should get all his financials. Before he's forewarned. Because here's a man, here's a man, practiced in deceit, this is almost, you could say it's his job, practiced at hiding things, and there is no reason, it is not improper, there is no reason for you not to get a picture of the household finances. Paper files, computer files, whatever----this is your prerogative. You can be a spy too, madam. Do this before you put him on alert. Before the turtle can draw in his head and his, uh...
osbourne		We were young and committed and there was nothing we couldn't do. We thought of the Agency less as... less as...
machine		You have reached The Cox Group...
osbourne		 Hello.
osbourne		Single...
harry		I should try to get a run in.
katie		Ozzie!
voices		Tune every heart and every voice...
men		... Bid every care withdraw.    Let all with one accord rejoice...
doctor		Well we can do liposuction there as well, but that area will respond to exercise. Buttocks and upper arms begin to store more fat when you get up around forty, the body just tells it to go there, but the thighs will respond to toning exercises.
patient		Uh-huh. I know, I can work out on my arms til the cows come home, but...
doctor		Uh-huh. And of course there are also genetic factors.
patient		The Litzkes are big.
doctor		Uh-huh, well everything's----
patient		My mom had an ass that could pull a bus.
doctor		Wow.    Well that's a predispo----
patient		Father's side too, although Dad tends to carry his weight in front of him.
doctor		Uh-huh.
patient		In the gut area. Derriere, not so much.
doctor		Okay.
linda		And what about the face, you know, the window to the soul.
doctor		Uh-huh! Uh-huh! Very well put. Well your eyes are one of your best features. But we can do something about the incipient crow's feet.
linda		Baby crow's feet. Little chickling's feet. I mean chicks. Chickie chickie chickie.
doctor		Ha-ha, yes, again, well put. You have a way with words. We cut here...
linda		Yeah, I don't wanna look like Boris Karloff.
doctor		Uh-huh! Heh-heh, so you don't want a sex change!
linda		No, I'm all woman!
doctor		So Linda, what we're talking about here is four different procedures.  The liposuction... The rhinoplasty... The facial tuck, which I would strongly recommend over the chemical peel----
linda		Yeah, I don't want to get anything burned off.
doctor		And why should you. With that lovely skin. And lastly, the breast augmentation. Now we can also do something about the vaccine scar----I don't know if you wear sleeveless dresses much----
linda		Not with these ham hocks!
doctor		Yes, well once they're nice and svelte, post-op, you----
linda		Well I don't know. Is the vaccine thing----can you counsel me on this? I don't know, is it unsightly? I see it a lot, a bunch of people have it.
doctor		Absolutely! Some women don't mind it at all! Personal taste!
linda		Chad!
patron		Ow!
chad		I'm sorry, was that too much?
patron		I felt a straining... a tightness in the... in the front of my ass...
chad		Well you're pretty tight.     You have to feel it or----
linda		 Chad Feldheimer. Office.
chad		I'll be back in a minute.     We'll work on opening those hips.
linda		I got a batch from BeWithMeDC dot com.
chad		Oh wow.   Any good?
linda		I don't know yet, just looking... How do you open this?
chad		Click on, uh... yeah...
linda		Oh my god!
chad		What?
linda		Oh my God, what a loser!
chad		Cripes.
linda		Loser!
chad		Did you have to send a picture?
linda		No, only guys do. I submitted a verbal profile, turn-ons, turn-offs, et cetera. I'm really looking for someone with a sense of humor.
chad		That guy----wait----that guy wasn't bad.
linda		Him?
chad		No, before.
linda		Him?
chad		Yeah.    He uh, he might not be a loser.
linda		How can you tell?
chad		That's a Brioni suit.
linda		Oh yeah?
chad		Shit yeah.
linda		 Does he look like he has a sense of humor?
chad		He looks like his optometrist has a sense of humor.
linda		State Department.
chad		That's cool.
linda		His hair is... what is that?
chad		Plugs.
linda		This is the cardio area. A lot of machines here so that, believe me, there's never a wait. What you're seeing now, this is our busiest time, and there's still a couple of open treadmills I see, three Stairmasters---- I call it the Butt-Blaster----couple of LifeCycles----Hi, Chad.
chad		Hi Linda.     Did you call that guy?
linda		Not yet! Chad is one of our trainers. I've just started internet dating and I got my first look at the, uh...
customer		What service?
linda		BeWithMeDC dot com?
customer		Nice.
linda		Have you used them?
customer		No----two friends did and they're both hooked up. With really special guys.
linda		That's fantastic.
linda		Yes!
linda driving		... Agent!     Agent!
linda		... Yes, hi, this is Linda Litzke, should I give you my account number? You have it up? Okay. I was informed that I needed pre-approval for these surgeries, and then... Yes, it was denied.
linda		Alan?
linda		Oh for Pete's sake!
harry		... and then, you know, you grow up. I guess that's what's happened with me. You just... people change. We married when I was, what, in my mid- twenties. A kid. We were kids. Twenties. You think it's forever. Then, you know, you're older----you begin to feel your mortality, you start to think, well, there's no more time for dishonesty. Subterfuge. You go, I'm not that person. The choices you made, you can't, just through inertia----
katie		I'm thinking of divorcing Ozzie.
harry		... I'm just thinking, Whoa. I mean, frankly, I'm thinking, Whoa. I, I, I guess that's what I should be thinking about too. With Sandy.
katie		That's what you were just saying.
harry		Yes! Absolutely! And you should be getting rid of that bozo.  No question about that. I agree.
katie		So if I were divorced----
harry		Well yes, if you were uh, you know, yes. Yes, I should settle things. With Sandy. Because of you and me. It just takes, courage, you know. To inflict that pain. Scary stuff. 
katie		Why's that? I don't see that.
harry		 But Sandy, she's... a good lady. A very special lady.
katie		She's a cold, stuck-up bitch.
harry		Well that's... a little----
katie		You and I should sort things out. I've told you that this is not just frivolity.
harry		No, that's understood.   You've been very straight.
katie		I thought I was loud and clear.
harry		Absolutely. Not just fun and games.
linda		English!... Agent!... Agent!...
recorded voice		----important to us. Please stay on the line for the next available agent.
chad		Holy shit...
linda		Ted, can I talk to you about our Mickey Mouse health plan?
ted		Uh-huh... Hang on...
chad		This is some heavy shit.
linda		Is that my date list?
chad		No... fuck...
linda		You know, I'm trying to reinvent myself, and these procedures, which are so incredibly not cheap, this Micky Mouse HMO is saying they're not, they're... What is this?
chad		I can't believe this... This is like... intelligence shit.
ted		I am not comfortable with this.
linda		What is it?
chad		This is, like, I can't believe this shit I'm seeing.
ted		Manolo found it.
chad		Manolo found this, like, CD just lying in a locker. Locker floor. Ladies' locker room.
manolo		Jus lie-een there.
chad		And I'm like, whoa, someone's music or what, so I come in here and it's these files, man.
ted		I am not comfortable with this.                       *
chad		Like it's talking about SigInt, and signals and shit. Which, Signals means code, you know.
manolo		It was jus lie-een there.
chad		Talking about like, section heads here, and their names and shit. And then these other files are just, like, numbers. Arrayed. Numbers and dates and numbers... And numbers. I think                  * that's the shit, man. The raw intelligence.
ted		I am not touching this.    I want this out of here.
chad		Wul... Throw it out?
linda		You can't do that! You should put a note up in the ladies' locker room.
chad		Put a note up? Highly classified shit found, Signals intelligence shit, CIA shit? Hello! Did you lose your secret CIA shit? I don't think so.
ted		Look, you figure it out, I am not comfortable with this. I want this                   * out of Hardbodies...
chad		Look,   Manolo...
manolo		I found it on the floor there.
chad		Yeah, I know, but
manolo		Right there on the floor there.      Lie- een there.
sandy		Harry?      Is that you?
harry		Yeah, yeah, it's me.
linda		Absolut Saketini, please?
ted		Just a Tab.
linda		You know, it wouldn't cover all of it, but if I got some advance on my salary I could at least get the surgery ball rolling.
ted		Whoa! There's a payroll company, you know. They don't just advance people money. They just don't do that. I mean, sure, I could say, Yes, I                           * authorize it, but that's not going to mean anything to them.
linda		Well why do they have us on a cockamamie health plan? I need these surgeries, Ted!
ted		You're a beautiful woman!   You don't need
linda		Ted, I have gone just as far as I can go with this body! I----
ted		I think it's a very beautiful----it's not a phoney-baloney Hollywood body----
linda		That's right, Ted, I would be laughed out of Hollywood. I have very limited breasts and a gi-normous ass and I have this gut that swings back and forth in front a me like a shopping cart with a bent wheel.
ted		Oh come on!
linda		I am trying to get back in circulation. I have appetites and so forth, and, uh----
ted		Well there's a lot of guys who'd like you just the way you are.
linda		Yeah----losers!
ted		Well, I don't know. Am I a loser? Lemme tell you something. I wasn't always a manager at Hardbodies. I, um... *
linda		Omygod----is that you?!
ted		Fourteen years, a Greek Orthodox priest. Congregation in Chevy Chase.
linda		Well jeez, that's a good job!
ted		Mm-hm.
linda		What happened?
ted		Well...
linda		Well that's my point! I don't want to stay where I am! I want to find someone to share my journey!
ted		Well, sometimes, you know, you don't look in your own back yard, you're never gonna see----
linda		That's right! That's why I've started this internet dating!
ted		Uh-huh, but I'm saying, maybe you don't have to, you know... to----
linda		Look Ted, I know you can't authorize an advance on my salary but you can put in a request, can't you?
ted		It's not going to do any good, Linda.
linda		Ted, have you ever heard of the power of positive thinking?
linda		Hurrow----
chad		Omygod.
chad		Omygod.
linda		Chad, you know what time it is?
chad		Uh-huh. So, like, I couldn't tell you this on your totally unsecure phone, but I know who the guy is.
linda		The guy?
chad		The guy, the secret guy.
linda		Is he high up?
chad		Um. I don't know if he's high up. Probably. I mean, I know his name, not like his rank.
linda		What is it?
chad		Osbourne.    Cox.
linda		Never heard of him.
chad		Oh, like you're so plugged in to the intelligence community.
linda		I'm just saying, to the layman----
chad		Well I think like the quality of the intelligence dictates how high up he is.
linda		Uh-huh.
chad		Not what we know.
linda		Uh-huh.
chad		And I also got his----do you have any water? I gotta hydrate.
linda		I have tap water
chad		Are you kidding?
linda		How did you find out who he is?
chad		Sources.
linda		What do you mean sources?
chad		Do you have like Gatorade? Anything besides, like, Maryland swamp water?
linda		How do you know his name?
chad		I have this geek friend, Ernie Gallegos? He does computer stuff, hooks up people's computers and programs their VCRs'n shit? So he examines the files and he pulls off the digital watermark that tells what computer they were created on. Fucking child's play for Ernie.
linda		Uh-huh.
chad		I also have his telephone number. That was a little harder.
linda		Omygod!
chad		Shall we give him a tinkle?
linda		Omygod, why?
chad		Because he's gonna wanna know that his shit is secure. You know, he's gonna be relieved. He might even be so relieved he gives us a reward----I would be very fucking surprised if he did not.
linda		Oh, wow.
chad		Very surprised. Like, you know, the                            * Good Samaritan tax. Which is not even a tax, really, since it's voluntary.
chad		Hello?
osbourne		Hello?
chad		Osbourne?    Osbourne Cox?
osbourne		Yes----uh----Who is this?
chad		Are you... uh... Osbourne Cox?
osbourne		Who is this? What time is it?     Who are you?
chad		I'm a Good Samaritan. I'm sorry I'm calling at such an hour, but I thought you might be worried.
osbourne		Worried?
chad		About the security.     Of your shit.
osbourne		What on earth are you talking about? Who am I speaking to?
katie		Who is it?
chad		Your files----your documents. I know these documents are sensitive. But I am perfectly happy to return to you your sensitive shit. At a time of your choosing.
osbourne		What documents? What are you talking about?
chad		... Osbourne Cox?
osbourne		 Yes! Yes, I'm Osbourne Cox!     Who the fuck
chad		Settle down, Osbourne.
katie		Who is that?
osbourne		What documents are you talking about?
chad		 OK. "The bureau chief in Belgrade we                 * all called Slovak the Butcher. He had very little report with his staff, and his despatches were marked by----
osbourne		Ra-por, very little rapport with his staff, you fucking moron!    How did you get----
chad		Don't blow a gasket, Osbourne.    I have----
osbourne		How did you get a hold of that!
chad		It's not important where I----
osbourne		You're in way over your fucking head! Who the fuck are you? You have no idea what you're doing!
chad		Oh! Why so uptight, Osbourne Cox? I'm just a Good Samaritan, like, a traveler on the road who has happened upon----
linda		We're going to return it, we just thought----
chad		Linda, I'll do it!
osbourne		Who's this?!
katie		Ozzie, what is going on.
linda		Like a Good Samaritan tax----
osbourne		Who the fuck----
chad		You know, this is a major inconvenience for us and we thought, you know, a reward----
osbourne		So it's money! So it's money!
chad		Well, yeah, uh... why not? I mean, this is not----am I out of line here?
osbourne		All right, you two clowns listen to me very very carefully. I don't know who you are, but I warn you most emphatically----
linda		You warn us? You warn us? You know what, Mr., Mr. Intelligence? We warn you! We'll call you back with our demands!
chad		Hello?   We just----
osbourne		Who, who----
linda		Chad!    Don't play his game!
osbourne		Hello!   Hello!
chad		 Sorry.
linda		The nerve of that guy!
chad		... I am very fucking surprised he did not give us the reward.
katie		What in God's name is going on?
osbourne		There's some clown----a couple of clowns ----somehow got a hold of my memoir----
katie		Your what?
osbourne		Stole it or----I have no idea how they got it----
katie		Your what?
osbourne		My memoir, the book   I'm writing.
katie		Why in God's name would they think that's worth anything.
osbourne		Well they----I... I've no idea how they got it.
chad		But it doesn't sound like he's gonna play ball.
linda		Oh, he'll play ball! We just have to let him know who's boss.
chad		Well, that's----he sounds very senior. I think this is some senior guy who has screwed the pooch, big-time.
linda		Yeah, that's why we got him, you know, we've caught him with his thing caught in a big fat wringer.
chad		Yuh-huh.
linda		And us in the driver's seat. This is our opportunity, like, you don't get many of these. You slip on the ice outside of, you know, a fancy restaurant.
chad		Yuh-huh.
linda		Or this happens.
chad		Right.
linda		And right now this has happened.
chad		Yup.   It sure has.
linda		This could put a big dent in my surgeries.
chad		Big time.
sandy		Honey!
harry's voice		Huh?
sandy		My cab is here, I'm off.      Mystery man.
harry		Oh baby.     Top secret.
sandy		Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago.
harry		Why do they always have you do Seattle. Not a big market.
sandy		I don't know, lots of independent bookstores. Rains all day, what are people gonna do.
harry		I can think of a couple of things.
sandy		You can think of one thing.
sandy		It better be the Peninsula. The money I make for them. Are you gonna be okay?
harry		I'll be sad. But I'll be okay.
sandy		Not too sad..
harry		Just the right amount.
bogus		Tony Bennett, Toni Morrison and Zoe                        * Caldwell. It was marvelous. First                          * time I've attended the Kennedy Honors. Jane Alexander is a client. Old                            * friend of Zoe's. What an actress.                          * Anyway...
secretary		I thought I had it here on a disk----I don't know where the disk is. I'm sorry, I'll have to run another off my hard drive.
bogus		Tony sang "The Best Is Yet To Come."                        * Mr. Bennett.
katie		It'll piss Ozzie off.
bogus		Mm-hm.
katie		Mr. Terikhian, I have given my husband second chances galore. There are limits to my charity.
bogus		Of course. But since we are at the point of no return, I always urge my clients at this juncture to give it one more day of reflection.
katie		Yes.   Understood.
linda		Harry?    I'm Linda.
harry		Yeah, I did the whole bodyguard thing for years. My guy was in State, the Secretary in fact, so of course I traveled a lot.
linda		You wanna try these dumplings? They're                 * delicious.
harry		Sure...
linda		Shellfood?                                             *
harry		`Cause I have this sensitivity. I, uh,                 * go into anaphylactic shock. My larynx                  * swells up, closes off the----Ah what the               * hell.                                                  *
linda		That's right! Not always!
harry		Anyway, my job's more administrative                   * now, not so much PP. Personal                          * Protection. Though I still carry the gun.
linda		Omygod,     really!
linda		No way!
harry		----but there was just a hell of a lot of political infighting, petty, petty, shit, and then basically the old man stepped on Goldberger's throat. Nice...
linda		I guess.
harry		Listen, full disclosure here Linda...
linda		Thanks for telling me.     I really do appreciate it, Harry.
harry		Well, full transparency, the only way to----
linda		That's not gonna go off, is it?
harry		Well let's go in the other room and find out!   Grrr!
ted		That's great. That sounds... exciting.
linda		He's very very communicative. Very accessible. He has a sense of humor. And he agrees one hundred percent about my surgeries.
ted		Well, I----
linda		He thinks my ass could be smaller. I mean, not in a mean way, he kidded about it----he's got a terrific sense of humor.
ted		That's good, but... but... Linda, what do you really know about this guy?
linda		I told you, he's in the Treasury Department and he----
ted		But he could be one of these people who, you know, who cruises the internet----
linda		Yeah, so am I!
linda		No, you can't go like that!     You gotta wear a suit.
chad		Well----you mean----go home and change?
linda		Yeah!
chad		I was gonna ride my bike.     Do I have time?
katie		----which to my mind is all the more reason to lower the boom on Ozzie.
harry		Mm.
katie		That's it?     "Mm"?
harry		I'm just... wondering if it's the right time.
katie		Of course it's the right time.   Why wouldn't it be the right time.   Does it threaten you?
harry		No no. No, you and me are rock solid. That's why I, uh, I think we can afford to be big. We can think about Ozzie, whether maybe we should let him get himself together a little before you hammer him with, um----
katie		Is that how you see me, "hammering" him?
harry		Of course not, but----
katie		Weren't those your words?
harry		Yes, but----
katie		I don't "hammer."
harry		No, uh-huh, of course not. But, I'm saying----I'm no friend of the guy. You know that. I think he's an arrogant little geek. But for Christ sakes, you and me have all the time in the world, and he just lost his job----
katie		He didn't lose it, he quit.
harry		Yeah. Most of the people who "quit" in this town were fired.
katie		Maybe. As long as we're talking about Ozzie and not you.
harry		Of course we're talking about Ozzie. Baby, I stand by you whatever you do. I adore you.
katie		Please get the check.
harry		I love you so much.
chad		Osbourne Cox?
osbourne		And you, I take it, are "Mr. Black"?
chad		Yes I am.    You have the money?
osbourne		The fifty-thousand dollars.
chad		That's what was agreed upon, Osbourne Cox.
osbourne		All right. Let me explain something to you, "Mr. Black." You know who I am; I know who you are.
chad		 Perhaps. But appearances can be---- deceptive.
osbourne		Yeah. What you're engaged in is blackmail, which is a felony. That's for starters.
chad		Appearances can be----deceptive.   I am a mere Good Samar----
osbourne		Secondly, the unauthorized dissemination of classified material is a federal crime. If you ever carried out your proposed threat, you would experience such a shitstorm of consequences, my friend, it would make your empty little head spin faster than your Schwinn bicycle over there.
chad		You think that's a Schwinn?
osbourne		Now give me the fucking floppy or the CD or whatever the fuck you have it on, and I will----
chad		As soon as you give me the money, dickwad! I'm not----Huhgf!
osbourne		Give it to me, fuck!
chad		You fuck!     You fucker!
osbourne		I know who you are, fucker!
chad		You're the fucker!
linda		Where's the money?
chad		He hit me!
linda		Where's the money?!
chad		He didn't give it to me
linda		Oh, for----Get in!
chad		That fucker!
chad		... Hey----what're you----
osbourne		Holy fucking----you fucking morons!
linda		That'll give him something to think about.
chad		Wait, wait! We gotta go back!
linda		I knew this would happen.
chad		We gotta go back!     My bike!
linda		It's on to Plan B.
chad		It's just a Kryptonite lock----you can open those fuckers with a Bic pen!
linda		Heavens sakes----
chad		Where we going?     My bike!
linda		Some people!
chad		... What is this?
linda		Russian Embassy.
linda		I told Mr. Krapkin I might be stopping                      * by?
chad		Is there a men's room?
krapotkin		----Not exactly. I am assistant cultural attach. The organs of state security are not allowed to function within the borders of your country.
linda		... The organs of state security?
krapotkin		Yes.
linda		But if I had, oh, say, secrets of a highly, um, secrets that would interest the organs of state security...
krapotkin		Yes.
linda		... This is just a taste.
krapotkin		May I ask the source of this...
linda		No you may not.
chad		Very high up.
linda		Chad!
chad		I'm just saying he's high up!
krapotkin		PC or Meck?
linda		Um.    PC.                                              *
krapotkin		Could you wait please?
linda		Well----
man		Could you accompany me please?
linda		Well----okay...
chad		Name, rank and serial number.
chad		We, um... we know our rights.
linda		This is just a taste.
linda		There's a lot more.    But we need to be paid.
chad		I don't think so.
linda		Look, I have a date.
linda		Date.
linda		We work at the Hardbodies in Alexandria.
chad		I'm at 1442 Westerly----
linda		Chad, not your home address!
linda		No.    Linda.                                             *
ted treffon		 Point-of-view from a car pulling into Hardbodies. Ted Treffon, the soulful manager, stands on the sidewalk in front of the gym, squinting into the approaching car, his arms out to either side, palms up: what the hell is going on?
ted		A line to check in, towels piling up.
linda		I'm sorry.
ted		Manolo running around like crazy----what happened to your nose?
chad		I just----
ted		This is not acceptable at Hardbodies. You two know better than that.
linda		Yes we do.     I'm sorry, Ted.
ted		This is no way.
chad		It was unavoidable.    This won't happen again.
ted		But you won't tell me what's going on.
linda		We can't. I... I... Ted, I know this is terrible, but----I have to run. I have a date.
ted		You're changing, Linda.
katie		Ozzie! Goddamnit, Ozzie, what have you done to the car?!
katie		Ozzie!
harry's voice		Sandy and I aren't here to take your call. Please leave a message.
katie's voice		Can I see you please. Harry, please call me. I'm very upset.
linda		I'm sorry----am I late?
harry		No no, doesn't start for five minutes.
linda		Oh!   No, no I haven't.
harry		I hear it's terrific.
dermot		First you tell me that you can't commit, then you----WOULD YOU GET DOWN FROM THERE!  Along with Linda, Harry laughs raucously, tossing popcorn into his mouth.
harry		Pardon our dust, I, uh----the ex is in the process of moving out. Damn! I told her I wanted to expedite this.
linda		Uh-huh.
harry		We, uh, you know you try to act like an adult.
linda		Oh, it's never easy.
harry		Oh! Come on downstairs.    Do you like surprises?
linda		Well, I'm very open to new experiences...
harry		I gotta tell ya----I saw an ad for this in a gentleman's magazine----twelve hundred bucks. I take a look at this thing, I think, Jesus, you gotta be kidding----I'm a hobbyist, this is basically nothing but speed-rail, I could probably go to Home Depot and whip this up myself for, like, a hundred bucks...
linda		... What is it?
harry		 What is it. You siddown, feet in the stirrups, and...
linda		Omygod!
harry		Isn't that somethin'? Hundred bucks all-in if you don't count my labor. And the, you know----cost of the dildo. Those things are not cheap.
linda		Uh-uh.
harry		But I lack the, uh, I'm not set up to mold hard rubber.
osbourne		... The Russians?
osbourne		The Russians?
hal		Uh-huh.    Russian Embassy, yeah.
osbourne		... You're sure?
hal		Hey, the guy was not hard to follow. As you know.
osbourne		Why the FUCK would they go to the Russians?!
hal		Hey.     No problemo.
osbourne		 Can I help you?
osbourne		 Yeah.
process server		I just didn't remember your...
osbourne		Osbourne Cox.
process server		Thought so.
hal		Ouch.
osbourne's voice		What the fuck?
osbourne		What the fuck?
chad		Why did you tell him we could get more stuff?
linda		Well maybe we can.
chad		That's all Manolo found! That was everything! What're we, gonna tell Manolo to scoop some more secret shit off the locker room floor!
linda		Hey!
chad		What.
linda		I don't like the snideness!    Nor the                * negativity!
chad		 I'm sorry.
linda		I'm just trying to work this thing! If I'm going to reinvent myself I need those surgeries. And those surgeries cost money! This is not just fun and games!
chad		Yuh-huh.   I'm sorry.
linda		So let's figure this thing out!
public address		Chad, your Berry Blast is ready.
linda		We know who he is
chad		Right: Osbourne Cox.
linda		So we can find out where he lives, right?
chad		Um.    I guess.
linda		You should change.   Into your suit.
chad		Why?
linda		So you don't look out of place in the neighborhood. There are certain elementary things.
chad		His neighborhood?
linda		Yes. We'll remove the laundry marks and labels. And you should not be carrying ID.
chad		Laundry marks?                                               *
linda		Deniability.
chad		Okay.
public address		Chad, your Berry Blast is waiting.
harry		What's the odometer say?
katie		Five.
harry		About five or approximately five?    I mean----about f----
katie		For fuck's sake, Harry, it's five miles. Five point two.
harry		Okay, fine----I gotta do at least five. Five and a deuce is okay.
katie		I'm surprised you have any energy left.
harry		You kiddin'----pull around the corner we'll do it again in back!
katie		You are very coarse.
harry		No, back of the car.   I didn't mean a rear-entry, uh----
katie		Ach.   I'm late----
harry		 Emerging from the park onto another street. He looks around and, satisfied that he has lost the tail, jogs on.
chad		Nuhhh!
harry		AHHHHHHHHHH!
harry		... Hello?
harry		... Hello?
harry		Hungh!
palmer		Olson.    What's up.
man		Palmer.    What's up.
palmer		Not quite certain, sir, but it's... messy.
gardner chubb		Kolyma-2?
palmer		Our man in the Russian Embassy.
gardner chubb		Mm.
palmer		It was brought to them by a woman who----
gardner chubb		The Russians?
palmer		Yeah. It was brought in by Linda Litzke, an associate of a guy named Harry Pfarrer. Picture's in the folder. With Pfarrer's.
gardner chubb		The Russians.
palmer		Yeah.
gardner chubb		Who's Pfarrer?
palmer		Treasury agent who's been, um, screwing Mrs. Cox. Must be how they got the files. Or maybe Ozzie knows about it, they all seem to be sleeping with each other.
gardner chubb		All right.     Spare me.
palmer		Yes sir. But this Treasury guy----it's gotten... complicated. He just shot somebody in Ozzie's house.
gardner chubb		Shot----your analyst?
palmer		Ozzie wasn't there. Our man surveying hears a gunshot, sees the Treasury guy wrestle something into his car, follows him; he dumps a body in the Chesapeake Bay.
gardner chubb		Well----what'd he do that for?
palmer		Don't know sir.
gardner chubb		Oh for Christ sake. Anyone fish the body out?
palmer		Mm-hm.
gardner chubb		Russian?   American?
palmer		Don't know. Scrubbed of ID.
gardner chubb		And this... Linda...?
palmer		Linda Litzke.
gardner chubb		She's Treasury?
palmer		No, we're----um... fuzzy on her.
gardner chubb		Well----so----we don't really know what anyone is after.
palmer		Not really, sir.
gardner chubb		This analyst, ex-analyst, uh...
palmer		Cox.
gardner chubb		Yeah.    What's his clearance level.
palmer		Three.
gardner chubb		Okay.    Okay, no biggie...
palmer		Right, sir. And----we'll interface with the FBI on this, uh, dead body?
gardner chubb		No! No, we don't want those idiots blundering around in this. Burn the body. Get rid of it. And keep an eye on everyone, see what they do. Report back when, um, I don't know. When it makes sense.
man		To the left!... Repeat!... To the right!... Repeat!... And in!... And out!... And higher!... Repeat!...
osbourne		I'm bigger... I'm back... I'm better... I'm back... than ever... I'm back... fuckers... I'm back...
ted		Linda.   You okay?
linda		I'm fine, Ted, I'm sorry.
ted		You don't look fine.
linda		No no, I'm... I'm...
ted		You won't tell me what it's about. You never let me in, Linda.
linda		Oh, I know you're trustworthy, I just... don't want to endanger other people with----I mean, it's a path I've chosen, it's not, you have to isolate, you know, a firewall.
ted		Uh-huh. Well, I don't know what to think. You both go AWOL on Friday; today Chad doesn't bother to come in at all----
linda		I know, Ted.
ted		Linda, I can't run a gym this way.
linda		I know, Ted.
ted		I'm going to have to fire him.
linda		No! No no no, Ted!   Just, just. .   .
ted		What?
linda		Give me twenty-four hours!
ted		To what?
linda		To, um... I don't know, twenty-four hours!
ted		Linda----
linda		Just give me twenty-four hours to solve this thing!
ted		Linda. I have to tell you. A man was here earlier asking about you.
linda		Foreigner?
ted		Linda, are you in some kind of trouble? Is Chad running from something?
linda		Ted, we know what we're doing. Let me ask you this: did he know my name.
ted		Whuh----yes, he was asking about you. Employment history, et cetera. Real jerk. I told him to get lost.
linda		Thank you, Ted.
ted		Well, we...
voice		Linda, there's a Mr. Krapotkin on line                   * two.
linda		Omygod!
voice		Linda?
linda		Yes?
voice		This is Ilan Krapotkin. Russian embassy. Returning your call.
linda		Yes, yes!----hang on.    Ted, I'm sorry. This is private.
krapotkin		Heh-heh.
linda		Mr. Krapkin?                                           *
krapotkin		Yes?
linda		Is this a secure, uh----
krapotkin		You are joking?
linda		No! I----I'm terribly worried about my associate. My----my----you know... Chad.
krapotkin		Yes?   Why is that?
linda		Do you have him?
krapotkin		Do we have him?
linda		Is he----I don't know what the term is, did he, "go over"?
krapotkin		Um...
linda		Do you know where he is?
krapotkin		Is he not... at Hardbodies?
linda		No, I----look, can I come in and discuss this?
katie		You seem distracted.
harry		 Do I?
katie		Very distracted.      The last two days.
harry		Nn.   Work.
katie		... That's enough carrots, don't you think?
harry		Huh?
katie		For the salad?
harry		You know: you're really a very negative person.
katie		... What?
harry		I've tried. To ignore it.    And stay upbeat.
katie		Harry: stop the foolishness.
harry		Stop the foolishness?
katie		Yes. And behave.    You are not talking to one of your...
sandy		Hello?
harry		Honey.    It's so good to hear your voice.
sandy		Something wrong, Harry?
harry		No. Yes. Can you come home?       Your baby needs you.
sandy		Harry, you know I----
harry		I can show you your present.     It's finished.
sandy		Oh Harry.    I can't just leave the book tour.
harry		Yeah.
sandy		There are two days left.     There's still Seattle.
harry		Yeah.
sandy		I love you, Harry.
harry		Okay.   Yeah. Love you too.
harry		Hey!    Fucker!
harry		Fucker!   Fucker!
man		Fucker!
harry		Who do you work for?!   Who do you work for?!
man		Tuchman Marsh!
harry		What?
man		Tuchman Marsh!
harry		... Tuchman Marsh?
man		Yes!
harry		Your name is... Tuchman Marsh?
man		Tuchman Marsh Hauptman Rodino!
harry		You... work for Tuchman Marsh.
man		Yes!
harry		Which is a law firm.
man		No! A rock band!      Yes, it's a law firm!
harry		Well... why are you following me?
man		Divorce action, numbnuts!
harry		My... my wife hired you?!
man		No. Your wife hired Tuchman Marsh. Tuchman Marsh hired me. I work for Tuchman Marsh.
harry		You're----you're----a divorce detective.
man		Not just.     Credit, missing persons, whatever.
harry		But this is divorce.
man		 Well... yeah.
harry		Yeah?
voice		Harry, it's Osbourne Cox.
harry		Yeah?
osbourne		Harry, could I get your wife's number? This is Osbourne Cox, could I trouble you for your wife's----
harry		You can't tell her anything she doesn't already know, fucker.
osbourne		What?
harry		You want... Sandy's number?
man		Can I use your phone?   To call a tow?
sandy's voice		Hello?
osbourne		Sandy?
sandy		Yes?
osbourne		Hi, it's Osbourne Cox, how are you. Hi.
sandy		... Hi.
osbourne		Hi. Sorry to call out of the blue but I have a, well, a publishing question and I thought you might be the person to ask, I have this manuscript, something to do with my professional experiences, not to go into too much detail but I think it's pretty explosive stuff and I think that it could merit a fairly wide readership handled properly and it isn't quite finished yet but there's a situation where I'm worried about it leaking now and maybe excerpts being published or on the internet, whatever, without my permission, and a lot of the impact being, um, blunted, so I'm actually anxious to bring it to market sooner than I'd planned----I mean, like now, in fact----so I was thinking, I know you, and you seem to do well, so I was wondering if you were happy with your publisher. The people you use.
sandy		You've written a children's book?
osbourne		No! No no, a, a kind of a memoir, but ----doesn't your company have an adult arm? Or isn't it, uh, the children's arm? Of a regular publisher?
sandy		Pappas & Swain do children's literature.
osbourne		Uh-huh. I see. So they don't---- okay... Are you well?
sandy		Very well thank you.    And you.
osbourne		Yes. Good. Okay, well, thank you Sandy.
sandy		Yes.    Good talking to you.
osbourne		Bitch.
krapotkin		Yes, madam. Can we help you?
linda		What kind of Mickey Mouse embassy are you running?! I've been waiting here for fifty-five minutes, and I'm----
krapotkin		I am so sorry, madam.   An urgent matter.
linda		Well this could be urgent too, since, you know, Chad has been missing for forty-eight hours now and----
krapotkin		I don't know the whereabouts of Chad, madam.
linda		Well he was gathering information for you when he----
krapotkin		We're not interested in such "information". It was drivel.
linda		... Dribble!
krapotkin		Would you like your disk back?
linda		... Dribble!
krapotkin		I'm so sorry I can't help you.
linda		I'll tell you what's dribble! You listen to me, Mr. Krapkin! I am----
linda		Cut it out.
osbourne		... What?
ted		No-o-o-o-o-o way.   No way.   Whoa.   No way, Linda...
linda		But Ted, I can't do it, I don't know anything about computers.
ted		Linda, the whole thing is crazy. It was crazy the first time, and you want to do it again? Break into the man's house? And why would----why would----you said the Russians didn't even want this stuff!
linda		My world is bigger than that, Ted. There's other people. There's the Chinese.
ted		Linda, these surgeries----
linda		It's not just the surgeries, Ted! It's not just the money! We can use it as leverage! To get Chad back!
ted		What do you mean "get him back"!
linda		Information is power, Ted!     Hel-lo!
ted		What do you mean "get him back"!      You don't know where he is!
linda		Somebody has him.    And we can----
ted		You ask the police to help you find missing people! And you----
linda		I can't take it! I can't take it! I can't take it! You know I can't do that! We're operating off the map here, Ted! This is way higher than the police, it's higher than that!
ted		Linda, I----
linda		I need a can-do person, Ted! I hate your negativity! I hate all your reasons why not! I hate you! I hate you!
bartender's voice		What'll it be.
ted		Seven & Seven.
linda		Hurrow----
filtered voice		It's Harry.
harry		You think a marriage is... and then you...
linda		But this was a long time coming.
harry		Was it?
linda		You're depressed, Harry.
harry		 I am depressed. I gotta exercise. I haven't run in three days... butt- crunches... anything... Do you think I could stay here for a little while?
linda		It can't always come from me, Harry! I'm not that strong!
harry		What's wrong, baby?     Harry's here.
linda		You're not here for me! I need a can- do person! You're all... defeated!
harry		I'm sorry, baby----
linda		Chad is the only can-do person I know and he's gone, Harry, he's gone.
harry		I'll be good. I'll be better.     I just need to exercise. Are there pedestrian paths around here?
linda		Could you help me find him?  He's a friend from work. You know law enforcement people, right? You could call, unofficially?
harry		Wait a minute, what's his name?   What happened?
linda		Chad Feldheimer. He just disappeared. He hasn't been at work or at home for two days.
harry		Okay.
linda		He----
harry		You know his social security number?
linda		Huh?     NO!    I----
harry		It's okay. That's okay.     What's the last place you saw him?
linda		 I don't know! He just disappeared! The last place I saw him was the Jamba Juice on K Street. And he's gone.
harry		Okay baby. We'll find your friend. Missing person. Piece of cake.
woman's voice		No, stay open...
osbourne		Yeah? The same patient she's been with since YESTERDAY? BullSHIT!
filtered voice		Dr. Cox has suggested you call her attorney----
osbourne		Yeah, RIGHT! Tell her I got the new fucking keys!
osbourne		New keys...
sandy		 And it was just then----at that very moment----that Oliver sneezed----
del		Can    we just----I'm sorry to interrupt but    we have to let the folks at home see    this illustration! Can we just get    a shot of that...
connie		That's wonderful!
del		Wonderful! The book is "Point of Order, Oliver!" and the talented author is Sandra Pfarrer. We're gonna go to a station break and then be right back with Bud Fraighling, the Sultan of Salad, and Part Two of our special interview with Dermot Mulroney. So keep it where it is!
sandy		Thank you.
del		Yeah, you know we thought it might be fun if you joined us with Bud Fraighling and help make the Fiesta Salad, when we move over.
connie		Over on the kitchen set.
sandy		That wasn't discussed.
del		Oh, sure! No! Only if you want to! Your segment went great, we just thought----
sandy		I'm sorry, I made plans.
del		Okay, great!
connie		Great to see you again, Sandra!
osbourne		New... fucking... keys... How's this for access...
pr woman		That was way out of line. We were so unbelievably clear with them: just an Oliver segment.
sandy		It's fine.
pr woman		Del and Connie are such putzes.
sandy		It's fine.     Thank you.   We're finished.
pr woman		Huh?   Well, okay. Great, uh----
sandy		Thought that would never be over.
man		Mmm.    Me too.
sandy		Let me scrub this crap off my face.
osbourne		Just for starters...
harry		Hello there sunshine.    You look great.
linda		Well you seem better.
harry		Yeah, I snuck in a little gym time this morning. And our exercise last night didn't hurt!
linda		Harry!
harry		Boy, I am through banging my head against the wall. I am gonna start doing what's right for me.
linda		That's how I believe, also.   You have to do what's right for----
harry		Yeah! Hell yeah! I mean I had a shock recently, and I realized you know, life is not infinite. No one's immortal.
linda		No one's immortal.
harry		You have to get from each day its full, uh, squeeze the juice from every day because there but for the grace of God----
linda		Exactly. The important thing is to maintain a positive outlook. Always up. Always ebullient.
harry		That's right, don't sweat the small stuff...
linda		Of course I do.
harry		You never know what the important days are, until... until, um...
linda		 No, no.
harry		Nothing yet, I've made a couple calls. I don't think it'll take long.
linda		Really?
harry		Oh yeah, there are so many data bases now it's a joke...
linda		Uh-huh.
harry		Did he----when you left the Jamba Juice ----did Chad say anything about where he might be going?
linda		Oh, I know where he was going.
harry		Oh yeah?
linda		A residence in Alexandria.    On Hillsboro Drive.
harry		Who are you?
linda		I'm ... just ... Linda Litzke.
osbourne		Ow!   Fuck!
linda		Oh for Pete's sake.
osbourne		And you are... my wife's lover.
ted		No.
osbourne		Then what are you doing here.
ted		I'm not here representing Hardbodies.
osbourne		I know what you represent. You represent the idiocy of today.
ted		I don't represent that, either.
osbourne		Oh yes. You're the guy when I went to ask about that moronic woman.
ted		She's not----
osbourne		You're in league with that moronic woman. You're part of a league of morons.
ted		No.
osbourne		Yes. You're one of the morons I've been fighting all my life. My whole fucking life. But guess what. Guess what. Today I win.
ted		Ah!
osbourne		Oh!
osbourne		Intruder!
ted		Oh!
gardner chubb		Wait.
palmer		Right now?
gardner chubb		Right now.
palmer		In a detention room at Washington Dulles.                                                        *
gardner chubb		... Why?
palmer		He was trying to board a flight to Venezuela. 
gardner chubb		You don't know.
palmer		No sir.
gardner chubb		We have no extradition with Venezuela.
palmer		Oh. Uh-huh. Well----what should we do with him?
gardner chubb		For fuck's sake, put him on the next flight to Venezuela!
palmer		Yes sir.     Okay.
gardner chubb		Okay.      So the gym manager is dead.
palmer		Yes sir.
gardener chubb		The body is----
palmer		Gone, sir.
gardener chubb		Okay----
palmer		But----there was a, uh... snag...
gardner chubb		What.
palmer		Well. This analyst, Cox, was attacking the gym guy. It was broad daylight, on the street. Our man there didn't know what to do. He felt he had to step in.
gardner chubb		Yes?
palmer		He, uh... He shot the analyst.      He shot Cox.
gardner chubb		Good!    Great! Is he dead?
palmer		No sir.
gardner chubb		Okay. Okay. If he wakes up we'll worry about it then. Jesus, what a clusterfuck. That's it then. No one else really knows anything. Okay.
palmer		Um.     Well sir, there is...
gardner chubb		What.
palmer		Um...
gardner chubb		What.
palmer		There is the woman.   The gym woman. Linda Litzke.
gardner chubb		Oh yeah.   Fuck. Where is she.
palmer		We picked her up.    We have her.
gardner chubb		Can we, uh----
palmer		She, she, she says she'll play ball if we pay for some... I know this sounds odd----some surgeries she wants. Cosmetic surgery. She says she'll sit on everything.
gardner chubb		How much.
palmer		There were several procedures.    All together they run to, um----
gardner chubb		Pay it.
palmer		Yes sir. Should I pay it out of, should it be from----
gardner chubb		One of the black accounts, I don't give a shit. The January fund. Whatever.
palmer		Okay.
gardner chubb		Jesus.    Jesus fucking Christ.
palmer		I don't know, sir.
gardner chubb		I don't fucking know either. I guess we learned not to do it again.
palmer		Yes sir.
gardner chubb		Although I'm fucked if I know what we did.
palmer		Yes sir.    Hard to say.
gardner chubb		Jesus.   Jesus fucking Christ.
****Dialogues from script :Burning_Annie.txt****

production draft		1-12-02
max		There's an old joke. It comes from "The Iliad," but I think it was popularized by Oscar Wilde. It goes like this: ...A bear's taking a shit, like, out in the woods one day. And he sees this rabbit, also taking a shit. The rabbit, wait, I mean, the bear, he's shitting up a storm, cuz he's been eating Mexican. The wiping's taking forever, and his shit keeps sticking to his fur. Wait, what happens next? Oh, right-- he asks the rabbit if he ever has trouble wiping. The rabbit says no, shit just slides right off him. So the bear picks the rabbit up and wipes his ass with him.  Well, I never said it was a good joke. And see, that makes it perfect, because it's pretty much the story of my life.
young max		Daddy, why are they running after her?
father		 Someday, you'll understand. Pay attention, you'll learn something.
max		There was something in Annie Hall I identified with. Maybe it was the style of humor, or the defeatist attitude, I don't know. All I know is, I kept going back. Different people are inspired by different things, and my source of inspiration became a 20-year-old movie about a failed relationship.
max		So after high school I ended up here. There was never really any choice, not going to college was not an option. Of course, I brought Annie with me. Good thing, too. [MORE]
max		 Jeez, this must have been the very first time. What's Amy doing here? I'm pretty sure Amy wasn't here.
sam		Are you comfortable, honey?
jen		I'm fine, Sam. I was worried about you. Sure you don't want me to move over?
sam		Oh no, no, Jen, if you're happy, I'm happy.
jen		Are we gonna watch this movie or what?
sam		Wow, what a good movie.
amy		Oh, that was so sad! Relationships don't have to be like that!  I can see why you like this so much. It reminded me of you.
max		Uh, thanks, I guess. Does that mean you liked it?
amy		I didn't say I liked it, I said it reminded me of you. It reminded me of what I didn't like about you, the cynicism, the neurotic insecurity, and oh yeah, when you started calling me every day. All the reasons we were never more than friends.
max		Well, at least you're being honest.
amy		Of course I'm being honest. This is a fantasy extrapolated from a flashback. How could I lie to you?
max		 I'm the only person I know who gets insulted in his own fantasies.
max		Anyway, Amy set the tone for the rest of college...
erica		AND WHAT IS IT WITH JEWISH MEN AND THEIR PENIS ISSUES?!
max		...And then I, then I, after I called the pizza place, I called an ambulance, and timed them.
stacy		Who won?
max		The pizza, of course. The paramedics took 35 minutes to arrive.
stacy		I can't believe you! Did you get in trouble?
max		The Station Manager said I couldn't go on the air ever again.
stacy		So what'd you do?!
max		I gave him the pizza!
stacy		What? Don't you like me?
max		It would never work.
stacy		How would you know?
max		I know. I have a sixth sense.
stacy		You see dead people?
max		I see dead relationships.
max		..."What about Beth?"
beth		Max...
max		I mean, it wouldn't have to be, uh...
beth		Sure.
max		We wouldn't have to... What?
beth		I'd love to. How's tomorrow night?
max		Um, yeah, it would have to be after, or maybe... Yeah, tomorrow, uh, tomorrow night's fine.
beth		Great. I know the perfect thing.
beth		Never?
max		Not until Sam and Jen.
beth		A perfect record. Wow.
max		I don't get what the fuss is. I knew you and that Chris guy wouldn't last a week as soon as I saw you together.
beth		But you can tell with everybody? I don't know if that's sad or incredible.
max		Or incredibly sad. I'm amazed I'm the only one who can tell. Take any couple. If it's not incompatible lifestyles, it's conflicting priorities. If it's not that, it's usually clashing levels of self- esteem. It's always something.
beth		Living with you would be a nightmare. I'd be afraid to bring any boyfriends home. Oh, uh, sorry.
max		Well, just because I see it, doesn't mean I talk about it. I don't say a word to my suitemates.
beth		You guys never talk about anything important anyway.
max		Oh, come on, we have philosophical discussions all the time.
beth		Like whether Voltron could kill the Transformers?
max		To name one hot-button issue, yes. You want us to talk about girls? Sam is nearly married to Jen, Charles doesn't want his relationships to last, Tommy's girlfriends are located in online chatrooms across the country, and Scott, well... you know.
beth		For such "close" friends, it just seems weird, that's all. I must admit, I'm a lot closer to you than any of them.
max		What are doing here?
librarian		Ah, you must have the reservation for booth seven.
beth		Yes, that's us.
max		What?
librarian		Right this way, then.
max		"Reservation"?
librarian		You'd be surprised how many of you lovebirds we get in here.
beth		Isn't this great?
max		Well, this isn't exactly what I had in mind.
beth		What do you mean?
max		For starters, I have a serious problem with spending any time in the library when I don't have to. I'm here once or twice a year as it is. Plus...  What's the point of seeing this together if we're wearing headphones? [MORE]
beth		Oh, shhh...!
max		Or Batman?
beth		Can't you just enjoy the moment?
max		I'm sorry, I'm sorry.  I'm a little nervous. It's like, our first date and everything.
beth		Oh. Yeah.
max		I can't believe how many great lines there are. Even the little throwaways, like when she parks and he's like, "That's okay, we can walk to the curb from here."
beth		Yeah. I loved it, I'm serious. I'm so glad we did this.
max		Yeah, me too.
beth		But man, relationships are a lot of work, aren't they?
max		Uh, sure, sometimes...
beth		If I'm going to jump into anything with you, Max, I need some sign that you're serious about it. About me.
max		What? You want me to get a tattoo or something?
beth		Look, you've gotta admit, you're the most pessimistic person in the world.
max		Obviously you've never met my mother.
beth		Can you be serious for a second?
max		I guess you really haven't met my mother...
beth		Look, Max, this isn't going to work.
max		Wait a second.
beth		Okay. No more jokes. Now. Tell me how you feel.
max		About what?
beth		About me.
max		I, I...  Why are you doing this? Since when have you gotten "serious" about relationships? Your last boyfriend dumped you after four days.
beth		Well, that was intimate. Thanks, Max.
max		No wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, hold on.
beth		Max, I don't think this is such a good idea. I mean, it would be really foolish to jeopardize our friendship.
max		No, it wouldn't!
beth		We shouldn't have rushed into this. I'm sure you know it wouldn't have worked out.
max		I don't know that.
beth		Please tell me we haven't hurt our friendship. You don't even know how much you mean to me.
max		I'm starting to get the idea.
max		All these dates had one thing in common! And it took Charles, of all people, to point it out to me.
charles		Max, you're insane.
max		It's ridiculous that even at a liberal school like this, I have to put up with anti-Semitism.
charles		So you got a C minus! Don't you think you're getting carried away?
max		He couldn't just fail me, think about it. The paper was about my grandparents' experience in the Holocaust.
charles		Your paranoia has always been out of control, but this is absurd.
max		You don't understand, you're not Jewish.
charles		Neither are you!
max		But the professor probably thinks I am.
charles		And wasn't that the paper that you handed in two weeks late?
max		You know what else? I think he might be German.
charles		Professor Wang? Will you stop it...
charles		So what do you want to do tonight?
max		I'm not sure. It is the beginning of the semester, it's time for our Annie Hall night.
charles		Have you ever noticed that the more Annie Hall you watch, the less successful you are romantically? I think we'd do much
max		What are you talking about? If you're sick of Annie Hall, that's one thing, but don't blame our sad little lives on it.
charles		No, I'm telling you, I was thinking about this over break. Ever since we started watching it, what has your love life been like? And mine? Every semester, we watch this movie, and then spend the semester alone.
max		Alone? Last semester you hooked up with like a dozen women.
charles		You know actresses don't count.  I'm looking for a meaningful, sophisticated relationship. Like Frank and Ava. No more shallow dames for this cat.
max		 Where did you get this grudge against my favorite film?
charles		I'm just kidding around, Max. We'll watch it tomorrow. Tonight, there's a party.
max		And anyway, your theory fails to account for our collective dorkiness and bad haircuts. Plus, look at Sam.
charles		Sam hasn't seen Annie Hall since freshman year, and he's in his third year with Jen.
max		So look at what not watching can do to you.
charles		Ouch. Why are you still on this? I said I was kidding.
max		What a nightmare. I dunno why I can't stop thinking about these things. I guess I've been a little restless lately, since getting back from winter break. Everything's been kind of weird lately.
charles		Max, you're coming and that's the end of it. When's the last time you went to a party?
max		Who cares? It's unnatural. If I went into a stranger's house and ate their food under any other circumstance, I'd be arrested.
charles		I'm not taking no. With Sam on board, it's gonna be like old times.
sam		Yeah, I haven't been out with you guys in ages.
jen		You're going out?
sam		Aw, honey, just for a little while.
jen		You know I have to work until midnight. It's not my fault the supervisor won't let me out of it.
sam		She has a point, guys. I should catch up on my chemistry reading anyway.
amanda		So Scott... How come you're not going out with Charles and Max?
scott		Can't go. Graphic design work.
amanda		Oh really? I have work, too, but it's okay, I got a lot done today. What do you have to do?
scott		Graphic design work.
tommy		What's up, all?
max		Tommy, at last. Save me from this lounge lizard.
charles		Yeah, what are you doing tonight?
tommy		Physics lab. Fortunately, the semester's just begun, so before the work piles up, I can party. That's why the beginning of the semester rules.
charles		Great, so come party with me.
tommy		I can't, I have physics work.
max		Cheers to a new semester, full of potential that will surely go to waste.
charles		This is it, I'm telling you. This is the semester I pass all my classes and meet the dame of my dreams.
max		Good luck, and may she have a sister.
charles		More importantly, may she grant us our occasional freedom.
max		Ah, forget about Sam. I don't like it any more than you.
charles		He's become a total non-entity. Freshman year, we were like Frank and Deano. Now it's like Frank and freakin' Peter Lawford.
max		Hey, he was one of my best friends. Now we share a room and he's like a stranger.
charles		Hottie at 3 o'clock. Keep an eye on her for me so it doesn't look like I'm interested.
max		Yeah, right, then if you fail to sodomize her, you'll blame me. Me, or Annie Hall.
charles		Look, all I said was, it would explain our lives.
max		The problem is, every crazy theory explains something. I took a class last semester with a professor who claimed that the planet is being destroyed by white, male, meat-eating capitalists.
charles		So? Everybody knows that.
max		But she had a theory that explained how: apparently racism, sexism, socialism, environmentalism, and vegetarianism are all inherently linked. I brought a Big Mac to the first class, and I thought I was going to be the victim of a vegan- socialist uprising.
sam		Hey! I made it!
charles		I can't believe it.
max		Wow, the laws of nature have stopped working. Maybe I should try to meet some chicks after all.
charles		How'd you get away?
sam		I told her I was going to the lab. She doesn't mind if I'm working while she is. How's the party?
max		Sucks. Who are they trying to be, with this wine and cheese? What kind of party doesn't even have beer?
charles		I can get into this. It's better than those frat parties. Check out the fox in the beret.
sam		Man, it's so good to be out. Between Jen, homework, and labs, I hardly have time for anything.
charles		You could always change your major. You'd have a lot more free time.
sam		I feel the same way about science that I do about Jen. It's a lot of work, but it's worth it. [MORE]
max		Changing your girl for a major.
charles		Would you do it?
max		It wouldn't be an issue.
sam		Of course not, when has studying ever interfered with what's important, like video hockey or your radio show that nobody listens to.
max		I meant, I'd have to have a girl first. And lay off the radio show. There's a reason I took the 3am slot.
sam		And every time I see you doing homework, you're taking a break. You're the best I've ever seen when it comes to procrastinating.
max		I should be, procrastination is one of my favorite hobbies. Isn't it funny that my two favorite hobbies rhyme?
charles		Oh, shit, Sara's here.
sara		Ta-daaa! Hey guys, what's going on?
sam		 We were just talking about the mediocre resonations of sub-hybrid fields.
max		I can't believe you think they're mediocre. Those guys rock.
sara		 Oh. Well, I just wanted to stop by and say "hey" to my favorite guys. So hey! How was everyone's break?
sam		Good.
max		It could have been better but it could have been worse. For me, that's good.
sara		Mine was great! I partied with my best friend Melanie, who I haven't seen in ages. Aren't these parties just the best? So much better than the theater group parties.
max		I dunno, it's a bunch of 21-year-olds who want the 18-year-olds to know how mature they are.
sara		Hey, Charles, you going to the fraternity party after this?
charles		Ugh, no.
sara		You gonna be back at your suite then? Maybe I'll stop by.
charles		Uh, yeah, we should be back in, uh, many many hours.
sara		Okay then, I'll catch up with you guys later.
charles		Shit, I was hoping to avoid her for at least a few more days.
sam		What do you have against her? She seems nice.
charles		First, she makes my skin crawl. Second, if word gets out, it'll ruin my reputation in the freshman dorms.
max		Never hook up with people in your cast.
charles		I am a world-class knucklehead.
julie		I'm sorry to interrupt, I thought I heard one of you say "Max."
charles		One of us is Max.
julie		 Oh, great, just as I hoped. I just wanted to say, I heard your radio show last week and I thought it was great. Thoughtful and poignant and funny, too. You know, you look just like I imagined, too.
charles		Thanks.
max		I'm Max.
julie		Huh?
max		I'm Max.  Oh my God, you heard my show?
julie		You're Max? Then who are you?
charles		Charles. I'm an actor.
julie		 You okay? You look like you're in pain.
max		You don't get it, I can't do my show if I even suspect someone is listening. Now I have to change time slots. Again.
julie		I'm sorry, I didn't realize I wasn't supposed to listen.
max		 No, it's no good, the whole episode is ruined. This is a disaster.
charles		I work in theater a lot.
julie		Alright, listen. I was kidding. Your show actually kind of sucked.
max		What?!
julie		Just kidding! It was awesome.
charles		I also direct.
max		Uh, when did you tune in? I need to know which episode you ruined.
julie		At one point you dialed a phone sex line. It was hilarious. It's not every day someone calls 1-900-4RIMJOBS to discuss politics.
max		And she hung up. "This isn't the place for that kind of talk..."
julie		Yeah, it's like, for four dollars a minute, you should talk about whatever you want. You know the country's in trouble when a phone sex operator thinks talking politics is beneath her.
max		Perhaps she'd been screwed by politicians. Phone sex is just pretend but politics... I know my ass is still sore.
julie		Listen, I'm being flagged down by my over- protective friends. It was nice meeting you, though.
max		Wait, wait. How did you know about my show?
julie		Someone mentioned you.
max		Anybody I know? Oh, duh, I guess it would have to be someone I know.
julie		It was from a good source. I was told I'd like you, but to really know you, I should hear your show.
max		What, really?
julie		It was Beth.
charles		Check it. Jen traded shifts and got out of work, so she went to the lab to surprise Sam. He wasn't there, and then Tommy gave away that he was here.
max		Busted.
charles		And how. Let's bail before the beheadings begin. Plus, The Rat Pack's on HBO later.
max		How can you stand that show?
charles		I told you, it's research. It's why I got three phone numbers, Max, while you were talking to that cutie.
max		"Cutie"?
charles		That's right. You get her name?
max		We just met. I was working up to it.
charles		Man, you're worse at picking up chicks than me. We are one sad couple of bozos.
beth		 Uh, hi, Max. Guess who? It's Beth. Been a while, huh? Since that lunch last August that somehow never happened. Anyway, uh, just checking in, I guess. Hope your break was okay. Uh, and----
max		Hello? Beth?... Sorry... Hello...? Hey, how's it going?... Yeah, in person... Too long... So anyway, I just wanted to say hi, and also, stop telling people to listen to my show... Of course I'm serious... Stop laughing... Of course I haven't changed...
charles		Ow! Shit! Ow!
sara		It's all right, this isn't the first time this has happened. At least this time I'm not the naked one.
charles		It's just that, I mean, I'm just surprised to see you here.
sara		Hmm, yeah, I must have shown up after you came back, or something. I was planning to go home, but I guess I fell asleep.
charles		Bye.
max		You all right?
charles		She's around all the time! I chose to live with my hombres, not her. She's got to realize that we're not right for each other and get on with her life.
max		No, I mean, I thought I heard you fall or something.
charles		Oh, what? I just stubbed my toe.
max		That sucks. Bad way to start the day.
charles		The toe's the least of it.
max		This is funny, in a way. Yesterday you were complaining about not having any girls. Now you're complaining because you have one.
charles		I know. It's a shame. And I was attracted to her once, too. What happened?
max		Want me to tell you?
charles		No! I think I've heard enough from the Nostradamus of failed relationships to last a lifetime.
max		Speaking of failed relationships, I was thinking about your Annie Hall theory. Specifically, I was thinking that you're insane.
charles		I said I was joking, so why do you keep bringing it up?
max		It's like you insulted my religion. Like, "Hey, Cardinal, I think Jesus might be why you're not getting laid..."
charles		Your attitude's too dour. You've gotta be more fun.
max		It's not my fault Annie Hall's honest about the futility of romance.
charles		You're just a wuss. The very thought of not seeing that movie scares you. You're like a junkie, you need movie methadone. Like, from now on you can only see Manhattan.
max		Forget it, I hate Manhattan.
charles		You think addicts like Methadone?
max		My Uncle Harry didn't seem to mind.
charles		So what are we doing for lunch?
scott		You mean breakfast.
max		Actually, I'm supposed to eat with Beth.
charles		Beth? Wow. She hasn't been around in ages. Say hi for me.
beth		Wasn't it supposed to rain?
max		I dunno.
beth		Max, it's been ten minutes and we're still discussing the weather.
max		So? Think of all the people who've died in hurricanes. I bet they think it's a worthy issue.
beth		I just feel like there are other things we could be talking about. You're the one person I could rely on to say something original.
max		Okay, okay.  So, what classes are you taking?
beth		This was a mistake, wasn't it?
max		What? No.
beth		Look, let's just call it a day. I was excited to hear from you, but I can't take you like this.
max		No, I'm sorry. Don't worry about it. To be honest, it's nice being with someone besides my suitemates for a change.
jen		Oh my, God, Beth! It's great to see you!
amanda		It's been so long!
jen		How did we ever fall out of touch? We shouldn't let that happen again.
beth		I know! I even miss this place. I live on the wrong side of campus now. You guys still come here? It's so dark and the menu is tiny.
charles		It never changes, that's why.
sam		 What are you gonna get?
jen		Maybe an omelet.
max		Do you have to get eggs? I'm allergic.
jen		So don't get the eggs.
max		It's just that, it's the smell. It's the smell that bothers me.
jen		Are you serious? How can you be allergic to the smell of my eggs?
beth		Don't worry about it, Jen. He's just incredibly picky about food.
charles		Even other people's.
max		Look, if you're going to have eggs, let me at least switch seats with Sam, so I'll be farther away from it.
sam		Max, what's up with you today? Join a support group.
charles		If it really bothers you, why don't you and Beth switch?
sam		What about people at other tables? Should we ask the management to stop serving egg- products to people upwind of you?
jen		Why can't you just get along with everyone for once?
max		Alright, alright, you win, we'll switch. Come on, Beth, get up.
beth		 What makes you so sure I'm gonna switch? I don't think I'm gonna move.
charles		Don't give in, Beth. I've got your back.
max		You owe me. Remember when you threw that egg at me in the dining hall?
beth		Okay, I'll get up. But I'm ordering an omelet.
julie		Hi. Look at this line.
max		Oh, hey. Yeah, I hate coming here this time of day, but I need money. You know, gambling debts and all.
julie		Aren't ATMs great? They save so much time. Think about what life must have been like before them.
max		I can't support an acronym without knowing what it stands for. I once joined NAMBLA because I thought it was an animal rights group.
julie		I'm listed as a sophomore, but I've taken some time off.
max		What're you majoring in?
julie		Why is that always the first question?
max		It was my second question.
julie		And how would you answer it?
max		I'd be honest. Oh, wait. Media Studies. This week, I'm majoring in Media Studies. I used to be a double-major, Renaissance Footwear and Neurosurgery, but, ya know, it was just too hard to get course credit for watching movies.
julie		I bet. Me, I'm in Soc., but I'm leaning toward Business, or Psych. Or Art History.
max		Why don't you just be undeclared?
julie		Not my style.
max		Uh, I forgot, my bookie takes checks now.
julie		Seriously, is everything okay?
max		Actually, yes. But I need something from you.
julie		What?
max		Your name.
julie		It's Julie, no nickname. Don't even think of calling me "Jewel."
max		Okay, Julie with no nickname, I, um, I'll see you around?
julie		Probably.
charles		Come on, which of you cats is in?
max		It's only Monday.
charles		Shit, it's only Monday? Now I really need a drink.
sam		I'm in.
amanda		 How was your day?
tommy		 My day sucked. I spent six hours in the lab and four hours in class. And tonight, I have to study for two tests.
charles		Ouch.
tommy		It better be worth it when I get into grad school.
amanda		Scott, how's the design project coming?
scott		Slowly. There are a couple problems.
amanda		Huh.
tommy		Listen, I have an extra ticket to this concert tomorrow night.
amanda		The Ani DiFranco show? Awesome! That's been sold out for weeks!
tommy		It's not Ani DiFranco, it's better-- two, front row seats at the Campus Choir charity show.
amanda		Oh.
tommy		So do ya wanna go?
amanda		I dunno. Why don't you call me tomorrow during the day.
tommy		Okay, great.
amanda		It's getting late. See you guys later.
tommy		See you tomorrow.
charles		Using Ani DiFranco to get laid. I've gotta try that.
sam		She'll never give up on Scott.
tommy		It's not like I expect anything, I just like to spend time with her.
scott		Why would I?
tommy		I didn't think so, but not asking would be wrong.
scott		No, it wouldn't.
tommy		But...
sam		It's not even a date.
tommy		It's nothing serious, but it is a date.
charles		But they're going as friends.
sam		They are friends.
max		She probably won't even go.
tommy		Whenever you're done, someone please give me an update on my sex life.
charles		How does "sex life" enter, if she might not be going, and if she does, it's just as friends?
sam		Wait, can you be on a date with someone you're not dating?
charles		Yes. No.
tommy		I didn't think it was such a big deal!  I just wanted to make sure it didn't bother you.
max		This conversation is starting to bother me.
amanda		Tired yet?
max		This is ridiculous. What other art form involves industrial toxins and complex chemical reactions? Nobody ever got cancer from dancing.
amanda		You're so paranoid.
max		I'm serious. Chemicals make me very nervous. Isn't this how the Unabomber got started?
amanda		Max, do I bother Scott when I'm around?
max		Uh, boy, this fixer smells delicious...
amanda		`Cuz, sometimes it seems like I do. I know he's not, like, interested, but then, sometimes it seems like he is. I just don't want it to be awkward. Please, tell me the truth.
max		I, uh, I mean, the truth is, it's not a topic. It doesn't bother him, or us. Or I mean, he doesn't talk about it.
amanda		So he never talks about me?
max		Yes, I mean, no, not with us, anyway.
amanda		I knew it.
max		Listen. All I'm trying to say is, you're not a topic that comes up very often.
amanda		So with all the time we spend together, none of you have any opinion of me?!
max		Well, that's not... what I meant. Oy.
amanda		It's time! To unroll the film.
max		Listen, Amanda. Scott likes you as much as we all do, so it doesn't leave much room for discussion. We mostly only talk about what we hate.
amanda		I know. It's just sometimes, I wish...
max		Yeah, I know.
max		Shit!
max		Hey, remember the scene in Swingers when they play this? That was awesome. I love movie scenes I can relate to.
sam		Yeah. Wasn't there also a video hockey scene in Mallrats?
max		No, you're thinking of Chasing Amy.
sam		Which one had all the comic book stuff?
max		They both did.
sam		What about the Star Wars stuff?
max		Mallrats, Clerks, and Dogma.
sam		What about the last one?
max		Doesn't count, it was just an ad for all his other films.
sam		You gotta admit, it's fucking cheap for a movie to refer to other movies.
max		Why? We do it real life. We're doing it right now. What you're saying is, if this was a movie, it wouldn't be any good.
sam		Yeah. Our lives would make an awful movie.
max		But if our lives were a movie, you'd never be able to say that. You'd be giving the critics the perfect quote to pan it with.
sam		So fucking what? It's a shitty movie!
max		Are you okay?
sam		How come you only play this one video game?
max		Video hockey is my game. Like a swan, I mate for life.
sam		More like the loon.
max		Holy shit, you and Jen broke up.
sam		Yeah. Your prediction finally came true. Come on, let's hit the bar. I need a drink.
max		Okay, so what happened?
sam		We were just hanging out, and she told me she loves me. Completely out of the blue. She says things like that sometimes, things like "I love that you're my boyfriend," ya know? But usually when we're in bed or something. But this time it was different, all we were doing was watching TV.
max		Porn?
sam		Almost. It was "our" show, the one we like to get romantic to...
sam		 We've been together a long time and I really care about you, but I don't know if I love you. This is tough to say, but I think something might be missing from our relationship.
jen		Something's missing?
sam		Well, not completely... I don't know if I can explain it. See...  There are three things I look for in a girl: heart, body, and mind. And well, you've got the body.
max		 Jesus. You think you know someone pretty well and then they do something like this.
sam		When she comes back, she slaps me in the face and makes me leave. Then she calls, crying, and asks me to come over. When I go back, she kicks me out and says she never wants to see me again.
max		Fifty bucks says there's a message on the machine when we get back.
sam		Is it really so bad? I couldn't lie to her.
max		Don't you know that no matter how often girls tell you they want honesty, they never really mean it? Nobody does!
sam		Look, I fucked up, alright? I didn't know what to say.
max		It's too bad it ended like this. I'm really sorry.
sam		Me too. It'll be hard to get used to, but at least we ended it early.
max		Jesus, that film...-- Have you heard Charles' theory?
sam		Come on, Max, I can only deal with one mid-life crisis at a time.
max		I can't believe you said that to her. That's so cool.
sam		You think?
max		No.
sam		Gee, at least I can hang out with my friends again.
charles		I was talking to Amanda the other day.
scott		Was that Thursday? Because there was that half hour when she didn't call or visit.
max		Scott, why don't you go for her? You seem to get along well.
scott		She follows me around now. If we slept together, I'd never get rid of her.
max		You're exaggerating.
scott		Look at Sam and Jen.
charles		Ouch.
max		Bad example: it could never get that bad.
charles		Ouch.
scott		Then look at Charles and Sara.
charles		Okay, ouch for real this time.
max		Shit, she's here.
charles		That dame from History class?
max		No. She's, she's just a girl. I shouldn't have mentioned it.
scott		But you did mention it.
charles		Ohhh, that's the one from the party.
max		Yeah.
charles		Get her name yet?
max		Yeah, it's "Julie"... Julie. She's cute, and she seems interesting, but I'm sure she has all kinds of horrible flaws I don't know about.
charles		Uh-oh. This is bad.
max		What do you mean?
charles		You're thinking about her. You're already making yourself nervous and you barely know her. You do this every time!
max		I wonder if maybe I should go say hi.
charles		See, this is what I'm talking about. If you don't go hit on her, I will.
max		Do you know the guys she's talking to?
scott		Yeah. The guy in the jacket is annoying.
max		Shit, shit, shit, she's looking this way. Fuck. What should I...?
charles		You have no choice. If you back away now, she'll never get to see the rest of your annoying personality traits.
max		You're right. I can't deprive her of that.
julie		Max! What's going on?
max		Hey.
julie		Do you guys know Max? This is Mark...
mark		Wassup.
julie		...And Andy.
andy		Hey Max, how's it hanging, bud?
max		Fine. I, uh, really like your jacket. Is that real carpet?
andy		Yeah, man. I couldn't believe my luck when I saw it. This shade of shag is, like, so rare. I was like, woah...
mark		Hey, are we gonna burn this or what?
andy		Yeah, man. Hey, you guys are like all invited, if you can handle some kind bud... "Maui wowey," you know?
max		Aloha?
andy		Hey man, you like Zappa?
max		Dweezil or Moon Unit?
andy		Frank.  Man, that isn't even funny. You should check out "Apostrophe" some time.
max		"Apostrophe"?
mark		It's an album.
max		I thought he was correcting my grammar.
mark		Can I get anyone beers? Julie?
julie		Sure.
andy		You know it.
max		Okay.
mark		Sorry, Max, we don't have enough.
max		Uh, yeah, sure.
julie		You want mine?
max		No thanks. I'm kinda picky about beer. I'm more into stuff like Guinness, Bass, Killians.
mark		 That's so... British.
max		It's a coincidence, I swear.
mark		I thought Guinness was going to be cool, but it sucks. Made me nauseous.
andy		Dude, puking blows. That's why I smoke weed. You get high right away and no hangover!
max		Yeah, I don't know. Giving me pot is like letting Richard Simmons smoke crack. I'm paranoid enough as it is.
mark		Yeah, well, some people just can't handle their bud.
julie		Andy, what are you looking for?
max		Wow. I bet you could use that for yard work.
andy		Julie, you don't smoke either, right?
mark		Really?
julie		Yeah. I used to, but when it became my social life I knew I needed to stop.
max		Kind of like why I stopped playing Dungeons and Dragons. It was, uh, in sixth grade, but it was kind of similar.
mark		Why don't we go smoke in the living room?
andy		Oh, Ampersand's crashing on the couch tonight.
max		"Ampersand"? What kind of name is that, Esperanto?
andy		Well, his name was Mike, but he couldn't cope. He thought it was, like, too square. He wanted a name that would tell people, here is a person that only the brave will understand! Here is a person living beyond the walls!
max		He must have been listening to "Apostrophe" at the time.
andy		Or Prince, cuz, like, Prince's name was a squiggly-thing. But Mike wanted something powerful, meaningful, and above all, something you could type. Therefore, "Ampersand." It's already on the keyboard and everything.
max		How much did that cost? Because I have a friend who wants to change his name to Not Bill.
julie		Is his name Bill?
max		No, Not Bill.
julie		What about originally?
max		Originally he wanted to change it to something else.
mark		Hey Julie, check out my new tattoo.
julie		Gee, Mark, that's really cool.
mark		I know it's not what you suggested, but I needed something more... masculine.
max		C'mon, I thought hippies were mellow.
mark		You just call me a hippie?
max		Sorry, Popeye, I guess I was thrown by the Dave Matthews merchandise.
mark		I'm in a frat, geek.
max		Well shouldn't you be back there date- raping someone?
mark		Julie, where did you find this creep?
julie		Mark, lay off. Go take a hit off the Hoover and mellow out.  Max, I'm sorry.
max		Hey, it's okay. I'm cool.
julie		Nah, it's time. It's getting late anyway.
max		So you live here, huh? Does it bother you to be in an all-female dorm?
julie		No, well, a little, sure. But there are always men around. During fire drills, more guys come out than girls. Never the same ones either. They come and go.
max		I bet they do.
julie		I had a good time tonight, but next time, let's have some real fun.
max		Oh, fine, uh, next time I'll bring Jack Nicholson and a case of Schnapps.
julie		Good night, Max.
max		Uh, hi...
beth		It was great running into your friends, but... you know... I feel bad about what I said. Do you want to get together later?
max		I don't know, I'm sure I have something to do that I've forgotten.
beth		Come on, it's bad enough we fell out of touch, but we can't even have lunch?
max		We had breakfast.
beth		Every time we try to do anything, you have an excuse, or forget to show up, or you cancel.
max		You cancel on me, too.
beth		I'm sorry. Things have been a little, you know, awkward.
max		Look, the whole thing was my fault. Let's drop it, okay?
beth		Now you're only going because I gave you a hard time.
max		Guilt is a powerful force. Just be glad it's on our side for once.
beth		Okay, how is the Kidney Bean at noon?
max		Awful, just like every other time of day. Their food is just birdseed prepared fancy.
beth		The Fabulous Diner, then. Friday at noon?
max		Fine.
amanda		And then I got to thinking, you know, I really think I like vanilla.
sam		I'll be right back.
max		Me too.
sam		Jen called yesterday, while we were at the bar.
max		You call her back?
sam		Yeah. I went over there to talk again today. She's taking it hard.
max		Imagine that.
sam		We're having dinner tonight. Wanna come?
max		Don't put me in the middle of this. Are you definitely broken up? Because it seems a little up in the air.
sam		Yeah, we're definitely broken up. I guess sometimes it seems like we're sliding back into our old patterns.
max		Don't even think of it.
sam		What-the-heck.
julie		Hello... Big night?
max		Um, it's for a friend.
julie		I would hope so.
max		No, seriously, I just got a job at a petting zoo.
julie		 Oh, of course.
max		And the best part is, it's work study. I think the Psych. department's involved.
julie		Hey, that's my new major. I got so sick of Soc.
max		So, uh, got any plans tonight?
julie		Well, there's a great local band playing the Pub. You should come.
max		Um, sure. Might be cool to catch a band before success ruins them.
julie		Great. I'll see you there.
sam		No baskets.
max		I can't believe what you just did to me!
sam		What?
max		Julie was just here!
sam		Who's Julie?
scott		Hi. I need socks.
max		What were you doing sitting in the car then?
scott		Nothing.
sam		I'll be right back.
max		Me too.
amanda		Scott, can I ask you something?
scott		Okay.
amanda		It's just that, sometimes, you're really cool and other times you act like I'm not even here. Or like you don't want me around.
scott		Yeah.
amanda		Well, I was wondering if... never mind.
scott		Okay.
amanda		All right, look, I'm just going to come right out with it. I think I like you. I think I, I really like you.
scott		I know.
scott		So where are the socks?
julie		Hey!
max		Oh, hey! It's good to see you.
julie		They're Anhedonia. They're "sludge-core."
singer		You're all a part of the conspiracy! You're all human! Every one of you wore diapers! You're all full of shit!
julie		That's their trademark. They insult the crowd at the end of the set. Sometimes he breaks the mike two songs in. We were lucky: they played for almost 40 minutes.
max		Luck had nothing to do with it.
julie		Look, the mike's not even broken. They were just tired of playing, but they wanted to give us something to remember. Now that's showmanship.
max		You have to wonder about any band whose highlight is their exit.
julie		It worked for The Who.
max		I'm sorry, the who?
julie		Ha ha. Come on, is that the kind of a joke a celebrity DJ would make?
max		I still can't believe you tuned in. It's like an invasion of privacy.
julie		You're a riot. Let's get out of here.
max		So, uh, I'm sorry about that thing with, uh, Chip was it?
julie		Oh, Mark. He's been following me around for years. He's easily threatened.
max		He's lucky, I, uh, almost pulled a Jackie Chan on his ass, but, you know, my kung- fu's gotten rusty since I left the Hong Kong military.
julie		Don't worry about him, he isn't a threat. You're far more interesting.
max		Right. Asking me not to worry is like asking a bear to use toilet paper. There's this joke that sums it up for me...
julie		You're not fooling me, you know. I can see right through this aloof image.
max		What?
julie		It's not an insult. I get the sense that there's this whole other side of your personality.
max		I hope he's a better dancer.
julie		See, this is the side you show, playing everything off as a joke whenever things gets serious. But there's more to you.
max		Did I ever tell you about the bear and the rabbit in the woods--?
julie		Quick. Now. Tell me something about yourself, something I never would have guessed. And don't even try to come up with some witty retort.
max		Wait.
julie		 I said something I never would have guessed.
max		Oh, thanks. I bare my soul and now you're the funny one.
julie		Sorry. That wasn't quite what I was looking for.
max		Now it's your turn, right?
julie		Let's see. Okay, here's one: I have a boyfriend.
max		Fuck. I sure hadn't guessed that.
julie		Okay, well, not anymore. Eric and I were together in high school, but we broke up over break.
max		Since high school, wow.
julie		Yeah. He's kind of a jerk. It was all a waste of time. Sometimes I, I, I don't know, Max, why don't you have a girlfriend?
max		 Uh, I have a friend who says it's because I watch Annie Hall too much.
julie		That's crazy.
max		Exactly. That film practically raised me.
julie		And it has a very positive message, too. I wish more guys were into it.
max		Be careful what you wish for.
julie		You don't know what I'm wishing for.
max		Snowtires?
julie		Max, there are a lot of girls that would go for a guy like you.
max		Know any?
julie		This is one of those moments, in a movie, when a character has a chance to say something, and of course they do, and it's perfect, and it becomes a movie moment.
manager		Building's closing. Everyone out.
julie		Are you hungry at all?
max		Sure. I know this place. Their food is bad, but they compensate by being overpriced.
julie		Sounds perfect.
max		Say, did that guy look like...?
julie		Ernest Borgnine? Yeah, I noticed that too.
max		I've been able to do it since high school.
julie		That's a scary gift. I mean, even if people are destined to break up, the will to stay together is very powerful.
max		That's the real tragedy. Look at all the unhappy couples in the world.
julie		I don't know if your gift is really that special, Max. I mean, we break up with everyone we ever date... Until the one we stay with forever.
max		See how ridiculous dating is?
julie		How did you get this attitude if you love Annie Hall?
max		What do you mean? That's what Annie's all about.
dj		..."college radio for the masses," and that's it for me.  Whoops! Anyway, next up is Verbal Diarrhea, with Todd Duke.
max		Why is your radio set to the campus station?
julie		Actually, it's stuck on it. It's how I first heard your show.
max		I thought Beth told you about me.
julie		It doesn't matter, Max. Now that I've met you, your show's not important.
julie		 This is a nice place. Ritzy. Interesting mix of people here, you've got these men with their suits, taking their waitress girlfriends out to impress them into bed, because they can't get them any other way. Really, as if a fast car can ever make up for a small dick.
max		If it did, do you think I'd be here? I'd be down at the Porsche dealer with a ski mask and an Uzi.
julie		Guys, always obsessed with dick size.
max		Well, sure, there's that, but it would also be nice to have a car with a heater.
julie		Let's guess which couples are destined to break up. How about them?
max		No, I can't tell just by looking. I need some info.
julie		Hi! Do you have a boyfriend?
donna		Yeah.
julie		 What do you need to know?
max		Uh, just a description.
julie		Describe him for us. It's okay, I'm a psyche major.
donna		Well, he's tall... ish. Brown hair. Funny. Very friendly. Fixes cars. Close with his brother. Uh, what else? Believes in God. Has a sweet tooth. Uh...
max		That's plenty.
donna		So can I take your order?
julie		We're not ready, thanks.
donna		So what was that all about then?
julie		Max here thinks you're going to break up with your boyfriend.
donna		What?
max		Sorry. It's all in there. You qualified "tall" so as not to make him appear too handsome, said "friendly" like a euphemism, chose "fixes cars" instead of the more dignified "auto mechanic," and finally, mentioned his brother  propos of nothing, like you're threatened by him.
julie		Hey! Don't shoot the messenger!
max		I'm such an idiot. She's going to shit in our food now. I can't believe you asked her that.
julie		Hey, we're all people here, right? If you want to talk to someone, talk to them. I don't spend my time trying to justify talking to people or whatever. You limit yourself if you do that. If you spend too much time worrying, you don't spend enough time living, right?
max		What are you, a fortune cookie?
julie		You have to keep yourself open to possibilities in life. I'm the first one in my family to go to college. Sometimes I can't believe I'm here, at a semi- prestigious university getting a halfway- decent education-- this has always been my dream. How did you end up here?
max		I had a coupon.
julie		I know what you mean, financial aid is a bitch. And the university experience itself is kind of disappointing. All those rich students with no idea how lucky they are. But I don't think about them. I think about me, I think about where I want to be someday: a world traveler, running some huge company, or, you know, doing some fantastically important work. And when the day comes that I can relax, I'm going to charter a boat, sail around the world, and see the Seven Wonders.
max		I thought they broke up when Stevie left.
julie		Come on, aren't you curious about the world? Doesn't the sheer scope of life fill you with wonder?
max		Wonder, horror, it's such a fine line...
julie		Ah, Max...
tommy		...swallowed a bug...
max		Sometimes I look around and wonder where the hell my friends came from.
max		Even when Beth was part of the group, she didn't fit in. Like, she never just lets things be. She always has to know exactly what I'm thinking. It was sort of cute when we were friends, but now it's like a proctology exam.  Hard to imagine a friendship going more wrong.
max		 I think it's time for some music.
charles		Fuckin' hate this flavored shit. Anyway, I can't believe the cat in the shag jacket was Andy.
max		I don't want to talk about it.
charles		When I knew him as a freshman, he was pre- law... Whew. Anyway, it sounds like things are going well between you and Julie.
max		Yeah. This is a real change of pace. Staying away from Annie Hall is like some kind of magic trick.
charles		I was wondering about that. You seem different lately.
max		You know how when things are going badly, there are certain parts I like to watch?
charles		Like how you spent your whole sophomore year watching that lobster scene on repeat?
max		I realized that I don't know what part to watch when things are going well.
charles		You know, I actually regret mentioning that theory. In fact, Sam and I were thinking of watching it tonight. You in?
max		Are you on crack? I meet a girl I really like, that I may actually have a chance with, and you want me to put it all in jeopardy?
charles		Come on. Watching it without you would be weird. Unnatural. That film is you, Max, face it.
max		But it's ruining my life.
charles		Listen, Max. I have to tell you something. I scored last night.
max		See? The theory works for you, too.
charles		With Beth.
max		What?!
charles		It wasn't premeditated.
max		 How could you sleep with Beth?
charles		Look, nobody knows about it. It won't happen again.
max		Happen again? Of course not! That might constitute a relationship!
charles		I'm sorry, Max. I wasn't sure if you'd care.
max		I don't care! Oh God, this is my fault! If only I hadn't called her...
charles		What do you want me to say? I'm sorry, man. Let me pay for your coffee.
max		You've gotta be kidding.
charles		Going back to the suite?
max		I dunno where I'm going.
beth		Max? What are you doing here? A sudden craving for bird-seed?
max		Yeah. I figured I'd had enough actual food this week.
beth		Well, be careful, someone in the corner is eating egg salad.
max		Yeah, why?
beth		No reason. Something about you sounded different.
max		What? Now?
beth		No, actually, last night on the... Oh no, he's here.
max		But I just left him in the General Store...
beth		Who is he with? He never calls me anymore. I think he might be seeing someone. Have you heard anything?
max		I don't even know him. What's so special about this guy, anyway? I mean, are you and he...?
beth		Sort of. Well, no, I guess not.  I know something's going on. I'm such a fool. Why are we always attracted to people that are completely wrong for us? Is it because they excite us?
max		I guess so. You know, we should try to be more exciting. Like the other day, I waited until the last minute before returning a video. And next time, I swear I'm not going to rewind.
beth		I can be a rebel too. The other day I went to bed without flossing.
max		Boy, are we pathetic.
beth		Okay, it's pathetic, but we're okay, you know? But sometimes, I feel like...
max		Yeah. Me too.
beth		I'm glad you're here, Max. I didn't realize how much I missed you.
max		I feel the same way about the Sex Pistols. Missing them is far cooler than having them around.
beth		That's not what I meant, Max.
max		What do you mean, you saw Julie with someone?
sam		Just that. Nothing more.
max		So what are you saying?
sam		Nothing. They were having lunch.
max		Who was he? What did he look like?
sam		You're over-reacting.
max		How could she see someone else?
sam		You're not even dating!
max		But we might be! I can't handle competition, Sam, I'm not the competitive type.
sam		It was just lunch in the cafeteria. He looked completely normal.
max		I can't compete with that!  Man, it's all gone so wrong, so fast.
judy		Hello? Can I help you?
max		Yeah, do you know where Julie is?
judy		Hey! Are you Max?
max		Yeah...
judy		Oh wow! You're just like she described. Hi, I'm Judy. I'm sure she mentions me all the time.
max		Oh, yeah, Judy. Right.
judy		Come in, come in. Make yourself at home.
max		Uh, thanks.
judy		This may be completely inappropriate, but can I ask you something? The tattoo did it hurt?
max		 Uhhhh... No! I mean, not much.
judy		Why didn't you use your frat's logo?
max		Well, uh, the guy said it's too hard to draw two grown men kissing. Say, which one is Julie's room?
judy		On the left. She's got the single.
max		So...! Uh, do I come here often, would you say?
julie		Max! What are you doing here?
max		Judy let me in!
judy		You know, I think I'm going to get a tattoo, too.
julie		Judy, Mark has the tattoo. This is Max.
judy		What? You're Max?
julie		Yeah, isn't he great?
judy		Sure.
julie		What a surprise! What brings you here?
max		I was, uh, in the area and thought I'd pop in. Find out how your day went.
julie		It was excellent, how was yours?
max		Great. I had lunch with a dear, dear friend.
julie		Yeah? Anyone I know?
max		Probably not. She's a foreign exchange student. Spends a lot of time modeling.
julie		Really?
max		Yeah, the agencies won't leave her alone. We had, uh, quite a lunch. Lots of shellfish, and wine. And, uh, rhino's horn.
julie		For lunch?
max		Well, yeah, uh, she's on the kosher meal plan. Look, I gotta go. Nice seeing you again.
max		I just made an ass of myself.
charles		Oh, is it the weekend already?
max		Ha-ha.
charles		Don't worry about it. Your troubles don't compare. Sara blew up at Stacy and nearly destroyed our first rehearsal.
max		Yeah, you've got real problems. Do you have time to talk?
charles		Uh-oh, here she comes.
sara		Charles! Can you believe Stacy at rehearsal?!
charles		Studying for a test?
max		You shouldn't talk, theater major.
charles		Hey, I have a test on lighting next week that'll make your hair go grey.
max		Why didn't you just leave? At least you can escape your problems.
charles		What do you mean?
max		I just got my textbooks for this term.
charles		Holy shit.
max		When the gods give you a sign like that, there's only one thing to do.
charles		By the way, I saw Julie last night.
max		Was she alone?
charles		Not if you count this huge purse she had. She was rummaging through it and finally had to dump the thing out. I swear, I'm surprised Kennedy's brain didn't fall out of that thing. Anyway, it made me think of Annie Hall.
max		Oh, great.
charles		Although Julie dresses better.
max		What are you saying, I like her because she's like Annie Hall?
charles		I didn't say that.
max		Oh my God, I think you're right.
charles		I didn't say that.
max		I don't want to like someone because she reminds me of someone in a movie. Now I'm wondering why I like her. Maybe I don't.
charles		Good Lord, Max. Take some harder classes.
sam		Look at you two. Wouldn't something else be fun for a change? How about Goldeneye?
charles		Great game.
max		No. I don't know how to play it.
sam		Lucky for you, I actually have time to teach you. Normally I would be having lunch with Jen.
max		Oh, shit, I forgot about lunch!
sam		Man, he'll do anything to avoid change, won't he?
beth		 So glad you could make it.
max		Hey, I'm here, right?
beth		Thank God for small favors.
max		I'm sorry. Are you still upset about the thing with Steve?
beth		Yeah, a little. This semester isn't shaping up too well. It's tough getting back into the groove of things and, you know, being on campus. Yourself?
max		Well, you know. Nothing even worth mentioning.
beth		But there's something? Really?
max		It's nothing.
beth		Who is it? Do I know her?
max		Actually, um, yeah, it's Julie.
beth		Julie! She's great. Why aren't you thrilled?
max		Well, I'm not sure I'm that into her.
beth		This I gotta hear.
max		She reminds everyone of Annie Hall.
beth		Well, of course, why do you think I sent her to you?
max		God, I'm such an idiot! That film is finding more and more ways to ruin my life.
beth		What're you talking about?
max		Look at my life. Look at this thing with Julie.
beth		Jeez, she's not like Annie when the film starts, she's like Annie at the end. Or maybe, the Millennium Edition.
max		The worst part is, maybe I knew this all along.
beth		Max, what's really the problem here?
max		And Annie Hall's not even my type.
beth		You have a type?
max		I'm into bipeds with most of their teeth. No Lutherans or fictional characters.
beth		Who would you rather sleep with, Julie or Annie Hall?
max		That's not two choices, that's one.
beth		Okay, Annie Hall or me?
max		Well, I must admit, it would be... Annie Hall.
beth		I'll take what I can get.
max		It's only because you'd laugh at more of my jokes in bed. It adds a whole other dimension-- you'd be laughing with me in addition to at me.
beth		You joke while you're in bed?
max		Yeah.
beth		That's so weird.
max		I'm weird.
beth		No, it's weird because I do the same thing. Guys find it annoying.
max		Girls think I'm a loser.
beth		Julie doesn't. And you really like her.
max		Yeah. It's corny, but there's something about her that brings me happiness.
beth		Happiness? Max, you wouldn't know what to do with it if you had it.
charles		You've gotta be kidding.
max		Look, either go somewhere else, or stay in your room.
charles		Can't I even meet her?
max		You already did.
charles		What are you doing?
max		Julie's coming over to watch a movie. I don't want to take any chances.
charles		Dude, Sam and I were gonna watch that.
max		Since Scott joined a video club, we've got a lot of shitty movies you'll ever Oo, here's Buffalo `66, that's a need. great flick.
julie		It is, but I saw it a couple of weeks ago. I don't think I can sit through it again. You mentioned something about Annie Hall the other night. Do you have that lying around?
max		Ummm, no.
julie		Isn't that it on the end there?
max		No.
julie		Sure it is.
max		Um, no, it's just the box. The tape inside is wrestling.
julie		No, it isn't.
max		Um, it's been recorded over...
julie		You don't believe your friend's theory, right?
max		No, of course not.
julie		Because it's insulting. A cop-out.
max		I, I know, it's just, I watched it last week. How about Airplane?
julie		Oh, good idea. But next time, Annie Hall.
julie		What are you?
max		Huh?
julie		Why did you back away?
max		Why did you?
julie		It wasn't me, I wouldn't have backed away.
max		Really? I'll, I'll have to remember that later.
julie		Ow.
max		Sorry.
julie		No, it's okay.
max		Are you comfortable, I mean, is this okay?
julie		It's okay. Shut up already.
tommy		You're crazy! You know how important your sense of smell is?
sam		Come on! What about touch? Missing the smell of rotting milk is hardly equal to not being able to enjoy sex.  Oh, hey, Max.
max		Hey. Guys, um, this is Julie. Julie, this is my roommate Sam, and that's Tommy, who also lives here.
julie		Nice to meet you guys, but I was just leaving.
max		What?
julie		I have work to do before class tomorrow.
max		But the movie is... Okay. Do you want me to walk you home?
julie		Sure, all right. Boys, nice to meet you.
tommy		Bye.  Okay, so what about body odor, then?
julie		I wish I had a cigarette.
max		I wish I smoked.
julie		Me too. It's strangely sexy when guys smoke.
max		Yeah, and it's the only thing between me and my dream of becoming Steve McQueen.
julie		So. You and Beth are pretty close, huh?
max		You call that pillow talk?  We used to be. There were times I would have been lost without her. Other times, it was like the lost leading the lost.
julie		She really cares about you.
max		We tried something once, but it was a disaster.
julie		It's great that you're still friends.
max		Sometimes I'm not sure if I have a say in it. On a campus this small, it's like she's everywhere.
julie		Sometimes this place annoys me. There's so much bullshit. My semester off was the right idea. What happened to old- fashioned hard work?
max		That's what summers are for. The school year is for reckless debauchery.
julie		Why not just set your tuition on fire?
max		This, coming from the girl who thinks college is bullshit.
julie		So, get on up, lazy.
max		It's different. Some things aren't quite as impressive in the light of day.
julie		You have a problem with nudity.
max		Of course not. I'm a big fan of it.
julie		It's too easy.
max		What are you doing tomorrow?
julie		A double-shift, I get out at five. This week's gonna suck. I have homework that can't be avoided.
max		The worst kind.
max		Hello. Nobody is here right now. Please leave a message. BEEEEEEEP.
julie		Nice try, Max. I thought you had homework and stuff, you liar. Great song, by the way.
max		You're listening? I told you not to listen!
julie		Come on, you're funny, you have good taste in music...
max		Hey, where'd the music go?
max		Woah!
max		Don't be too proud of your five seconds of fame. More people would hear us if we shouted out the window.
julie		My radio days are over, I'm now deaf.
max		Didn't I tell you not to listen to my show?
julie		You were only playing music.
max		Well, all these songs are about you.
julie		Wow... You're a real piece of work, you know that, Max?
max		Man, I'm sorry. Go back to sleep.
sam		What's the point? I have to be up in 15 minutes anyway. Not that I could sleep.
max		I didn't sleep either, but for some reason I'm still refreshed. I feel great.
sam		What the fuck is your problem?
max		It's Julie. Last night we officially became a couple.
sam		Officially?
max		We hooked up.
sam		That doesn't mean anything.
max		It meant something to me.
sam		I don't believe you. Just last week you told me the happy should be quarantined. I don't know you anymore.
max		Still down about Jen, huh?
sam		We broke up for good last night.
max		Oh, man, I'm sorry.
sam		I thought I knew what I was doing. Ever since she became my girlfriend, I've felt more and more constricted. Like I was trapped under the weight of the label. "My girlfriend." "Her boyfriend."
max		You guys were together a long time.
sam		Yeah, we were.
max		Have fun in Saturday lab.
sam		Ah, eat shit and die.
charles		What's this, "Goldeneye"?
max		Yeah...
charles		Have you been here all day?
max		Yeah, this game's so much fun.
charles		Max, gotta tell you, you're really creeping me out.
max		Sam said the same thing. He's still depressed.
charles		Still can't believe he broke up with Jen. I saw her yesterday and she looked sad. [MORE]
max		A non-denial denial. I invented that. She's learned from the best.
tommy		I saw her, too. She didn't seem upset to me.
charles		I was hanging with Sara. That girl pisses me off! She'll say the dumbest things, like, the Breeders are better than the Beatles.
max		Happiness is a warm gun.
charles		I wouldn't go that far. She's just a daffy dame, that's all. Now, Stacy's foxy, but she's too serious.
max		What about Beth?
charles		What about her?
max		You just came from Jen's, huh?
sam		Yeah, we just broke up for good.
charles		Oh, man, I'm sorry. Was it you or her?
sam		Me. Us. Both. It was just time, I guess.  I have to go, uh, mail a letter or something.
max		Well, that took the wind out of my sails.
charles		 What's up with you? Got another date with Amanda?
tommy		It wasn't a date.
charles		A no-show, huh?
tommy		Yeah, but it's okay. Today's her birthday, and she invited me out for dinner at a nice restaurant.
charles		She invited all of us.
tommy		Oh? Well, that's cool, too.
max		It's barely lunch, why are you dressed up?
tommy		I don't want to wait til the last minute to pick out my clothes.
charles		Are you really wearing that tie?
tommy		Damn, I knew this was the wrong one!
max		I don't wanna go to a birthday party. I'm broke, and I wanna hang out with Julie.
charles		So take her. And pray Sara's not there.
julie		This has been some crazy week. I still have a six page paper due Monday.
max		Six pages? That's nothing. Triple spaced, in 14 point type, that's only like 500 words. If a picture's worth a thousand words, that's like a bad photocopy.
julie		Don't worry about it, I needed a break. Good to get out and enjoy the weather.
max		What are you, from Maine?
julie		No.
max		Phew, because I don't know if I'd be able to handle something like that. That's a hard thing to drop on a person.
julie		I'm from northern Vermont. Not too far from Canada.
max		Shit, I'm sorry.
julie		It sucked but I managed. Read a lot. Had a few close friends. That's all you need. It's quiet up there, dull but nice.
max		It sounds it.
max		Look out for that truck!
julie		Will you relax? I know how to drive.
max		Watch the driveway!
julie		 I've got it under control, Max!
max		Anyway, everyone's dying to meet you.
julie		Oh, yeah?
max		This is going to be fun. All my friends, meeting my girlfriend. It's going to be great.
julie		Did you just call me your girlfriend?
max		Uh, yeah...
julie		 Ah well, I guess that's alright. Boyfriend.
amanda		Beth, I can't believe you're graduating so early.
max		What, really?
beth		Yeah. I've spent my life learning how to be a student, and at the end of the semester it will all be useless. Everybody already wants to know what I'm going to do, and I have no idea. I started making up stories to tell people. An aunt asked me if I'm excited about Chicago, and I couldn't remember if I'd said I was moving to the city or going to see the band.
charles		Something similar once happened to me, except I didn't know Nashville Pussy was a band.
beth		I can't believe I'm graduating. My whole life, I've known what was next. But when I graduate, the next step is... something?
julie		Something that pays the bills.
max		My grandfather once told me that if you love your job, you'll never work a day in your life. He's 98 years old, addicted to C-SPAN, and had to be removed from a supermarket recently for shouting about Republicans.
julie		Now I know where you get it from.
amanda		You should do whatever makes you happy.
tommy		Grad school baby. Stay out of the real world as long as possible.
sam		I can't believe I'm graduating next year. I already have a recurring nightmare about it.
jen		You have plenty of time, dear.
sara		Come on, Charles, show a little dignity.
charles		Dignity? You've been following me around like a lost dog since break, and you're talking about dignity?! You're always in my way, I can't get away from you!
sara		What are you talking about?!
charles		If they're making me sick, that's my business! Leave me alone already!
sara		Fine!
jen		We make you sick? Sam, say something to him!
sam		Why should I? We've made him sick for years.
jen		How dare you!
sam		It's true!
jen		You think everything's okay if it's true, but some things are true and not okay!
sam		When are you going to realize I'm a different person and entitled to my opinion? It's my goddamn life!
amanda		Please, guys, it's my birthday. We're here to celebrate.
scott		 "Can't we all just get along?"
amanda		Goddamn it, Scott, I am so sick of you making fun of me! You are the meanest person I've ever met and I don't know why anybody even talks to you! You are such an asshole!
scott		Sorry.
waiter		Are you ready to order?
jen sam		No. Yes.
charles sara		Yes. No.
waiter		Why don't I come back?
beth		 Ah... So... Julie. I heard you switched majors.
julie		Yes, I'm Psych now. I didn't like Soc.
jen		I'm a Soc. major.
julie		Oh sorry, I just meant, I needed something more, ya know, relevant.
sam		Psych is relevant?
julie		 Well, look, I'm only in college for the degree. Most of the stuff they teach us is pointless anyway.
max		 Heheh, I bet that's why they call it "academic."
jen		College is a great opportunity. It's about more than getting a job.
julie		Yeah, it's about avoiding the real world for as long as possible.
charles		I work in theater, so this is great training for me.
julie		You call theater the real world?
sara		Hey!
jen		Some of us work really hard to get through school.
julie		Look, my parents worked their whole lives to give me the opportunity to be here. But the truth is, private schools like ours make money by showing students a good time for four years. It's bullshit.
amanda		You think social work is bullshit?
julie		That's not what I--
charles		This "bullshit" is going to put me in debt for the next forty years.
jen		Why don't you just drop out if everything's such bullshit?
max		So what's everybody going to order then?
julie		God. What a bunch of spoiled, whiny college brats.
tommy		I'm gonna work for NASA!
max		Are you sure?
julie		No, it's okay. I just need a few hours to work.
max		It'll be fun, just the two of us.
julie		Okay, see you later.
scott		If she stands you up, are we still not allowed in here? It's my time to watch "South Park."
max		Why would she do that?
scott		 It's already past eleven.
max		See?
julie		Hey. Sorry I'm late. You wouldn't believe what cross-campus traffic was like.
max		That's the worst excuse I ever heard. I mean it. So... you wanna hit the video store?
julie		No, you've got something here that I've been looking forward to all week.
max		Ah, shit, no.
julie		You must face your fears. Relax, it's a very positive film. You just have to know how to look at it. It's really refreshingly positive.
max		Boy, what an uplifting movie. Such a refreshingly positive message.
julie		You know, I think I prefer Manhattan.
max		How can you say that? Annie Hall is so uplifting!
julie		It's just deeper, more sophisticated, I guess. Listen, thanks for dinner and the movie tonight, but I should get going.
max		But it's still early.
julie		I don't know if this is a good idea right now.
max		Okay, how about right... now?
julie		Listen, since the other night, I've been doing some thinking...
max		There's your mistake. Mindless happiness is always better than thoughtful reservation. Unless you're talking about nude bungee jumping.
julie		I don't think that this is a good time for us to jump, or leap, or whatever, you know, together. Into a relationship.
max		But, but... we just saw a movie about how relationships are worth it, no matter what happens.
julie		Did we?
max		Yeah, I guess we really did.
julie		Well, you're right, Max, and this relationship was worth it.
max		Was? Is. Wait... Oh, shit!
julie		Are you okay? Will you please calm down? I like you very much, but I told you, I just got out of a serious relationship, and it ended really badly. We saw each other almost every day at the beginning, but by the end of the semester, I hadn't seen him in a month. He stopped returning my calls and stuff, and I mean, he basically avoided me, then I heard he was seeing one of my friends.
max		But that was him, not me.
julie		It's nobody's fault, I know. I mean, I've been trying but it's hard. Relationships are very difficult to maintain. There are so few successful couples.
max		What's successful? Like, my parents have been married thirty years, but--
julie		My parents are divorced.
max		Okay, bad example. But why think ahead? We're here, now. Can't we just enjoy our time together?
julie		Max, I did, believe me.
max		What was all this, I mean, was any of it
julie		I don't know what I was doing. I didn't think about where this might lead until it was too late.
max		But it might lead to... happiness.
tommy		Uh, re-run.
julie		Say something. Are you okay?
max		I knew that damn film was cursed! Why did I listen to Charles instead of Annie?
julie		Jesus, Max. It's not an anti-relationship movie.
max		What are you talking about? It's a fucking textbook.
julie		You're not listening to me, Max. Just like you're not listening to Annie. No matter what you think right now, this was worth it. Because I got to meet you, and got to be close to you.
max		I know. I don't know. I mean... Good-bye.
sam		Why are humans smarter than chimps if we have 99% of the same genetic material?
max		Who says we're smarter?
sam		Look who I'm asking. You think a red blood cell is a prison for a gang member.
max		Very funny, Mr. Wizard. If I learned anything useful in my classes, I'd be rubbing it in your face.
tommy		So Amanda. Have a good weekend?
amanda		Yeah.
tommy		Mine was good too. Get any good birthday presents?
amanda		Yeah.
sam		By the way, Max, what ever happened with that girl you were seeing?
max		She just ended a long relationship and she doesn't want anything serious.
charles		Can't you have something that's not so serious?
max		No, it's dead. And the thing I don't get is, it was all going so well. There was a moment when we kissed, when it was more than a kiss...
charles		I think you're upset about not seeing some other parts of her again.
sam		Relationships are incredibly complicated. Like polypeptide strings. There's an attraction at first, but if the bonds don't form right away, nothing can make the connection work.
max		There's a metaphor we can all relate to.
sam		It was like with Jen and I. But I know it was for the best.
charles		I finally dropped out of the play I was directing, just to get rid of Sara. God, my career is in shambles.
tommy		Tough week all around, huh? How about some video hockey?
max		I think I prefer Goldeneye.
sam		Wanna watch Sports Center?
charles		Nah. I think I'm gonna call Sara...
max		Oo, witty.
beth		Yeah, I hate Valentine's Day, too. If you're in love, you're in love. And if you're not, who wants to think about it? I want to be in love so badly, don't you?
max		You know, there's this joke...
beth		Ah, forget it, Max.
max		You know the joke?
beth		Does a bear shit in the woods?
max		Yeah, that's the one.
beth		You told it the night of our date. I hate that joke, Max. It's not a philosophy.
max		But I think I know what it means now.
beth		Yeah, and it's dreary and depressing, right?
max		Not this time.
beth		No?
max		 Beth, I just want to say, before it's all over and I don't have the chance, that I'm sorry. For everything. Last semester and last year.
beth		Really?
max		Really.
beth		Then allow me to recommend a movie that you've never seen before. It's called Annie Hall.
max		I was going to see it tonight. Do you want to join me?
beth		I would love to, but I think you need to do this alone.
max		No, you're right.
beth		But I'll see you later?
max		Sure. After the movie, I'm doing my last radio show. It's going to be all requests. You should tune in.
beth		The end of an era.
max		The start of a new one.
****Dialogues from script :Butterfly_Effect.txt****

evan		 If anyone finds this, then I guess my plan didn't work and I'm already dead...
evan		But if I can just go back to the beginning of all this, I still might be able to save her.
andrea		Okay, okay... what now?
evan		We're gonna be late again.
andrea		When did you ever care about getting to school on time?
evan		We're putting up pictures for Parent's Night.
evan		Righty-tighty, lefty-lucy.
andrea		Thanks. Don't worry Evan, you'll have plenty of time.
andrea		 Darn it!
evan		Um... can dad come this time?
andrea		 You know the answer to that.
evan		Can't he come out for one day?
andrea		We've been over this a hundred times. It's too dangerous for him.
evan		But Lenny said that his dad's coming... and Tommy and Kayleigh's dad...
andrea		Here, Ev... Finish this up for me.
evan		All the dads are gonna be there.
andrea		I get the point, kiddo. But I'm not so bad, am I?
evan		No.
andrea		Good. Because I've been waiting to see your art projects all week and I'd feel terrible if all you thought about was your father not being there.
evan		 Done. Try it.
andrea		You're amazing, kiddo.
andrea		Okay have a great day I love you I'll pick you up later gotta go...
andrea		I'm sorry, but can it wait til tonight? I'm already late for work --
andrea		What is it?
andrea		I don't understand... Evan did this?
andrea		Thank you for showing it to me first. I'll... I'll take care of it. Can I have the picture?
andrea		What?
andrea		I have to go.
lenny		You put the mommy too far away. Mrs. Boswell has macaroni and glue if you wanna fix it.
tommy		You're such a retard!
kayleigh		Mommy lives far away but she comes and visits.
lenny		 If I'm retarded, why didn't my mommy move away from me?
evan		Hey, what'd you do that for?
tommy		Fat little baby, crying for mommy.
evan		Come on, Lenny. It's not that bad. You can still see your mom a little.
lenny		 Can... can... Can I have this?
evan		Sure. I was gonna make a new one, anyway.
andrea		 Not according to his teacher. It just got me thinking about Jason and what if Evan's inherited his father's condition?
evan		I don't like this place, Mom. It's creepy. Please can we go? I promise I won't make any more bad pictures!
andrea		 You'll be fine. Dr. Redfield just wants to give you some tests. You'll like him.
evan		 You know my father?
andrea		That's why I wanted you to come here, Evan. Dr. Redfield already has a background in memory loss.
evan		My father has a bad memory, too?
andrea		Just tell me that Evan doesn't have Jason's illness...
andrea		Anything.
andrea		Why? What for?
andrea		Thanks, George. I really appreciate you watching him, he won't be any trouble at all.
evan		These'll bring you luck, Crockett.
andrea		 Great. I'll see you soon.
andrea		Evan?
andrea		Evan? What are you doing with that knife?
evan		 What happened?
andrea		Honey. What were you doing with that?
evan		 I... I don't remember.
andrea		Thanks a lot George. Here's my work number in case there are any problems.
kayleigh		 Evan, guess what? Dad got a new video camera and we're all gonna be in a movie.
tommy		I don't think Evan gets to be in it --
kayleigh		Quit it, Tommy. Evan gets to be Robin Hood. I'm gonna be Maid Marian, and you're the Sheriff of Nottingham!
tommy		I thought I was the bad guy!
kayleigh		You are, silly. He's a bad sheriff.
evan		We're really gonna be in a movie!?
tommy		I thought I was the star.
evan		Where am I? What happened? Where did we all go?
evan		I was just somewhere else -- how did I get here?
evan		Kayleigh? What happened?
evan		What's wrong with me?
andrea		And the bad news?
andrea		But you must have something to go on?
andrea		But he's seven. What kind of stress can he have?
andrea		Come on, I doubt the answer's that simple.
andrea		Well, he has been pushing me to meet his father, but I've been putting it off.
andrea		How soon?...
evan		Dad lives here?
andrea		Now your father may seem sleepy to you, but that's just because of his medicine, okay?
evan		Okay.
jason		It's okay. I won't bite. You've seen pictures of me, right?
evan		Uh-huh. Mom says I have your eyes and your --
jason		 I... love... you.
jason		 He has to die! You don't understand! It's the only way to stop it!
andrea		I'm sorry, Evan. I'm sorry.
priest		Ashes to ashes... dust to dust.
kayleigh		You're better off anyway.
evan		Tommy, I'm bored shitless over here. What's up already?
tommy		Hold your horses, man. It's here somewhere. I saw it when I was a kid.
kayleigh		 We should go soon. If Dad catches us smoking down here, we're dead.
evan		So let's go. This place creeps me out.
tommy		I knew it had something to do with the army.
tommy		Let's blow the shit out of something!
lenny		Guys, slow up, would you?
kayleigh		Evan, did I tell you? My mother said I might be able to visit her this summer in Orlando with her new family.
tommy		What did I say about mentioning that bitch?
kayleigh		 Where the hell are you taking us anyway? Just blow something up already.
tommy		Just blow something up? Are you nuts? There's an art to mass destruction. Would you just paint the Mona Lisa? No. Besides, we're here already.
tommy		Here you go, buddy.
lenny		 What? No frigging way, man. I'm not touching that thing.
tommy		The hell you aren't. Anyone of us does it, you'll puss out and narc for sure.
lenny		Ain't gonna work this time, buddy. Look how small that fuse is! I'll get killed.
evan		Not necessarily.
evan		That should buy you ten minutes at least.
lenny		Gee, thanks friend.
tommy		Oh, for Christ's sake, just do it, Lenny.
lenny		 Thanks.
evan		You got balls, man.
tommy		Hurry! Let's go! Get him up, Evan! Come on!
evan		 What happened?? Where are we?!
kayleigh		 Oh God... what did we do?
evan		Shit, Lenny. What's happened to you! We've gotta get help!
andrea		What is it? What happened?
tommy		 We were just building a fort in the woods when Lenny freaked out. One minute he was fine, then he just froze up. Right guys?
andrea		What happened, Evan? The truth.
evan		I don't know... I don't remember.
andrea		Something must've happened! What set him off?
evan		I... I blacked out.
andrea		 Don't try to use your blackouts to get out of this one!
andrea		You're not making this up, are you?
evan		Yes.
evan		I'm standing next to Kayleigh, my hands are over her ears.
evan		No, protecting her.
evan		I see a car.
evan		 I can't... the car vanishes and all of a sudden I'm on the ground in the woods.
evan		It's coming... argh! I can't!
andrea		What's happening to him?? Make it stop!
andrea		Evan wake up, oh please wake up!
evan		What happened? Did it work?
tommy		 Wipe that sad-assed look off your face before you get us all busted. You see the way Evan's mom was looking at you?
kayleigh		I'm sorry.
evan		Would someone just tell me already what the hell happened in the mailbox?
tommy		Don't ever bring that shit up again. Not ever. Not to me, not to Kayleigh, or even Lenny. The stupid fuck if he ever learns to talk again. Understand?
tommy		Ever.  She don't want to talk about it, anyway. Do you Kayleigh?
evan		Are you okay?
tommy		There it is. Let's go.
anchor		 ...was the grizzly aftermath of what police officials of upstate New York are calling a horrible act of vandalism gone awry.
anchor		The powerful explosion is believed to have been caused by a small quantity of dynamite.
anchor		Police thus far have no leads as to the suspects...
tommy		Holy shit! Look at that fat fuck! You'd have to wipe his ass with a forklift!
tommy		Shut up, faggot. No one's talking to you!
evan		I'm sorry Kayleigh. This was a bad idea.
kayleigh		You really don't remember anything that happened?
kayleigh		You're so lucky.
evan		It's going to be okay. Lenny'll be fine. You'll see.
kayleigh		Ouch.
evan		I'm sorry.
kayleigh		It's not your fault. Mrs. Kagan called dad and blamed us for what happened to Lenny.
evan		Damn. Your dad did this?
kayleigh		 I deserve a lot worse.
evan		What are you talking about? What you deserve is a better brother and father. All they do is make you feel like shit.
evan		You really have no clue how beautiful you are, do you?
andrea		So how was the movie?
kayleigh		Okay.
andrea		Any exploding mailboxes?
kayleigh		 What do you mean?
andrea		Goodnight.
andrea		We're moving.
evan		I can't believe Tommy's still pissed at me. He knows I'm moving away, right?
kayleigh		He's been acting real strange lately. He won't even look me in the eyes anymore.
evan		Duck, here they come.
kayleigh		Did your mom say if Lenny was... okay?
evan		He must be. They're letting him go, right?
evan		Welcome home, Lenny!
evan		Sorry?
evan		 Welcome home. Thought you might like some fresh air for a change.
kayleigh		Hi, Lenny.
lenny		Is Tommy with you guys?
evan		It's cool.
kayleigh		 So what did you do in there?
lenny		It was awful. You can't sleep 'cause everyone's screaming all night long. I never want to go back.
kayleigh		Do you see that?
evan		Crockett!!
tommy		Look what you made me do!
evan		What's wrong with you?!
evan		Kayleigh! Wake up!
tommy		Why don't you fucking kiss her, Prince Charming!
evan		How long was I out?
evan		Kayleigh?! Are you okay? Where's Crockett?
andrea		I'm sorry.
professor carter		Time! Please place your blue books on my desk before you leave.
professor carter		How'd you do, Evan?
evan		I'm not sure. I might have gotten some stories mixed up. Did Pavlov condition his dogs to lick his nuts?
professor carter		 Typical psych major. A complete wise ass. And how's your project coming? Still planning to change the way we humble scientists view memory assimilation?
evan		 Hey, I got no choice.
evan		Whoa. Smells like patchouli and... ass.
thumper		Cricket, meet my well-mannered roommate, Evan.
cricket		Yeah, you're the one who fucked up the bell-curve on my Anthropology final. Later, Thumper.
evan		Nice to meet you, too.
thumper		Here, bro. Found your T-shirt.
evan		Get dressed, Thumper, you're taking me out for my birthday.
thumper		I thought you were a December baby.
evan		This is bigger. Seven years to the day. No blackouts.
thumper		Let's do this.
kristen		So... which one of you has a pet worm?
thumper		Worms, plural.
kristen		That's so gross.
thumper		Talk to him about it, he's got the fetish.
evan		Actually, they're for a psych project. A study on memory.
heidi		 Shit, better explain before all the excitement gives me a heart attack.
evan		It's an experiment with flatworms and a maze. You take a flatworm and run it through the maze until he's memorized it. Then you put a new flatworm in the maze. He's clueless. Banging into walls, getting lost, whatever.
thumper		 Like Ozzy.
spencer		Ten bucks says he eats it off the floor.
evan		You chop up the smart flatworm and feed it to the dumb one and presto, the dumb one suddenly knows the maze inside and out.
evan		Just by absorbing the first worm into its cellular structure, it gets all of the worm's memories.
thumper		 That's probably why Hannibal Lecter's so smart.
heidi		So what's the point?
evan		 Maybe if I can figure out how the memories of a simple worm function, it'll help me understand the complexities of the human brain.
heidi		 So are you planning on becoming a doctor or something?
evan		No, I just don't want to lose my mind.
evan		 I think that's your game.
heidi		Smells like sex in here.
evan		Thumper had a busy afternoon.
heidi		You're kidding. He's so... big.
evan		Charisma and eyeliner go a long way, I guess. Wanna beer?
heidi		Most guys tuck their porn under here, but all you have are... comp books.
evan		Yeah. I've been keeping journals since I was seven.
heidi		 Wow... read something.
evan		No way, I'd be too embarrassed.
heidi		Then keep drinking, worm-boy. You're too uptight.
evan		Freeze! No "worm-boy". No "Mr. Worm," and no "Worm-Master-General!" Once you get a nickname like that you can't shake it. And I don't want everyone thinking I've got tapeworms coming out of my ass or something, okay?
heidi		 Deal. Now read me something.
evan		 For courage.
evan		It's like my mind refused to believe what it was seeing. Hearing Crockett make those awful screams... Just writing about it gives me the shivers.
heidi		Come on, go on...
evan		It was like Tommy was possessed or something. There was a hate in his eyes that I couldn't really call human.
evan		What the hell is going on?
lenny		I can't undo the rope!
tommy		Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
evan		I got him, Lenny. Help Crockett!
tommy		Listen to me good, Evan. There's a million other sisters in the world. You didn't have to fuck with mine.
evan		Oh my God! No! No!
heidi		Wake up, idiot. It was just a dream.
evan		 It didn't feel like a dream.
heidi		Maybe because they never do.  So Don Juan, you pass out on all your dates?
evan		Hey, uh, it's me. Evan.
evan		What's that you're working on? A model?
evan		Well, you look busy, so maybe I should make this quick. I'd totally understand if you didn't want to get into this right now, but that day at the junkyard, could you help me remember what happened? Any details?
lenny		I couldn't cut the rope.
evan		 Yeah, good, what else do you remember?
lenny		Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
evan		Jesus Christ. It really happened.
evan		What if I can get back all my lost memories with my journals.
lenny		Make one peep and I swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
evan		Well, thanks for seeing me, man. I shouldn't have waited so long.
thumper		You really think he wanted to kill you?
evan		All I know is that I might be able to unblock some of my repressed memories.
evan		 I think I was more focused on her hands on mine than the mailbox across the street...
lenny		Maybe it went out. Should someone check it?
tommy		Yeah, you do that, Lenny.
tommy		Make one peep and I swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
tommy		C'mon! Run!!
tommy		Lenny? Come on!
kayleigh		Oh my God oh my God...
evan		What the hell?
thumper		Christ, man. You wanna clean that up before I lose my appetite here?
evan		Yes, hello, uh, Mrs. Kagan, this is Evan Treborn.  I know. I'm sorry about that. But I really need to speak with him.
professor carter		Whoa! Didn't mean to scare you, Evan. Just wanted to know how the flatworms project was coming.
evan		Oh, fine I guess. It's been kind of crazy lately with my mom coming up, so I haven't...
professor carter		I know, I know. Who can think of worms when your libido's in full swing, right?
professor carter		Just don't drop the ball, okay?
evan		I won't let you down, Professor Carter.
evan		Please, mom. People will talk.
andrea		I can't help it. I'm just so proud of you. You've got the highest grades in all of your classes.
evan		Did Da -- Jason --- get good grades?
andrea		 Please. He got straight A's without ever touching a book. That was the one area where his memory never failed him.
evan		Ma? Did he ever say that he figured out a way to recall a lost memory years after he blacked it out for the first time?
andrea		Why do you ask?
evan		No, it's just weird with him being such a brain and all, I just wondered if he was ever able to remember stuff he'd forgotten.
andrea		When he was around your age... almost exactly your age. He said he figured out a trick to remember the past.
andrea		I couldn't tell if they were real memories or just phantoms. You know, he might only have thought he actually remembered them...
evan		Sure...
andrea		And then, just before it got so bad that he had to be committed, he said that he could...
evan		What? What could he do?
andrea		Forget it. It's nothing. He was far too sick by then.
evan		 I never wanted to be in the movie anyway and it was cold so I wanted to wear my clothes but Mr. Miller took his shirt off --
thumper		What the fuck are you doing?
evan		Shhh! I need quiet for this.
thumper		Are you stupid or what?
evan		What?
thumper		Shucks, I dunno. But maybe there's a reason why you've repressed the one day when some old lecher had you in your tighty whities, dammit!
thumper		Yeah, man. I'd think twice about this. You could wake up a lot more fucked up than you are now.
boss		Can we get through one goddamned day without you breaking something?
kayleigh		God, Evan! I never thought I'd see you again. How've you been?
evan		Oh, comme si, comme ca, you know...
kayleigh		No, Evan. I don't know. It's been a long time. Fill me in.
evan		I'm going to State now. Things are going okay. I guess. Mom's good...
evan		 Not since we were kids.
kayleigh		I've stopped a hundred times.
evan		So how's Tommy?
kayleigh		 They kept him in juvy for a few years. Now he works over at Dale's Autobody.
evan		You still live with your dad?
kayleigh		No. I emancipated myself when I was fifteen.
evan		Wow. That must've taken some courage.
kayleigh		Not if you remember my dad.
evan		Couldn't you have moved in with your mom?
kayleigh		 She had a new family. Not enough space for me. Said I should have moved in with her when we were kids. But... whatever.
evan		Actually, Kayleigh, the reason I came back to town was to talk to you.
kayleigh		 Me? Are you kidding? Why?
evan		Remember when I was a kid I had all these blackouts?
kayleigh		Of course.
evan		Well, lately some of the memories have begun to come back and I'd kinda like to talk to you about one of them in particular. It'd be a big help.
kayleigh		Well, sure. I'll try to remember. Shoot.
evan		When we were kids. Your dad was making a movie. Robin Hood or something?
kayleigh		 What do you want to know, Evan?
evan		It's just... did he... what happened in the basement?
kayleigh		It was a long time ago.
evan		I know, but...
kayleigh		 Is that why you came all the way back? To ask a lot of stupid questions about Robin Hood?
evan		No, but I think something really bad might've happened to us.
kayleigh		Is there a point to any of this?
evan		Whatever happened, it wasn't our fault. You know we couldn't have stopped it.
evan		Look, Kayleigh. This may sound like bullshit coming from a guy who hasn't spoken to you in seven years...
evan		But you were seven years old and there's nothing you could've done to deserve...
kayleigh		 Just shut up, Evan. You're wasting your breath.
evan		You can't hate yourself just because your dad's a twisted freak.
kayleigh		Who are you trying to convince, Evan?! You come all the way out here to stir up my shit just because you had a bad memory!? You want me to cry on your shoulder and tell you that everything's all better now? Well fuck you, Evan! Nothing's gonna be all better! Okay?! Nothing ever gets better!
kayleigh		If I was so wonderful, Evan, why didn't you ever call me? Why'd you leave me here to rot?!
thumper		Some dude left a message for you.
evan		You can smell it all the way in the bathroom.
answering machine		 Hi, Evan, this is Professor Carter. Just wondered why you didn't hand in your essay this afternoon. I was a bit concerned. Call me to schedule a make-up.
answering machine		 She said you came and saw her last night.
answering machine		 And so are you.
thumper		Whoa, bad news, bro. I don't think this is gonna come out.
tommy		But I wanna see!
evan		What time is it?
evan		Wrong answer, fuckbag. This is the very moment of your reckoning. In the next thirty seconds you're going to open one of two doors. The first door will forever traumatize your own flesh and blood.
evan		 It'll change your daughter from a beautiful child into an empty shell whose only concept of trust was betrayed by her own sick pedophile father. Ultimately, it'll lead to her suicide. Nice work, daddy.
evan		Let's just say you're being closely watched, George. Your other option is to get your porn off the rack and treat Kayleigh like... oh, let's say like how a loving father treats his daughter. Sound okay to you, Papa?
evan		Listen close then, fuckbag. You screw up again and I swear I'll flat out castrate you.
evan		One last thing.
kayleigh		Don't you ever touch me again.
kayleigh		I'm cold. And I'm putting on my clothes.
evan		What you need to do is discipline your son Tommy, because the kid's one sadistic pup.
kayleigh		Oh my God, Evan. You're bleeding! Look at you!
evan		 Incredible.
kayleigh		 Mmmm... You give good compliment. Clean up and come back to bed.
evan		Where... where are my clothes?
kayleigh		Those are your clothes, silly.
evan		This is too amazing! Un-fucking-real!
evan		Whoops. Sorry. My bad.
evan		Hey, you were with those assholes who threw popcorn at Thumper.
evan		And your name is... Gwen!
gwen		Seriously, Evan. Lay off the blow.
evan		Hey, uh, don't go freaking out on me over this, but do you remember when your dad first got his video camera?
kayleigh		Well I remember he had one... but he, like, put it away after the first day. Why would that freak me out?
evan		I dunno.  Just being weird.
kayleigh		Such a goofus. See you tonight.
evan		 Come on, Mom, be there!
answering machine		 Aren't home right now. You know what to do.
evan		 Hi, Mom and, uh, Chuck. Just calling to say hi and well, call me.
evan		Thumper! What time is it, man?
thumper		Whasamatter? Lost your Rolex?
evan		Huh?
thumper		Fuck off, frat boy.
professor carter		Remember, everyone! Only two weeks until your science projects are due.
evan		 I still owe you an essay from last week. Is there any way I could get an extension?
professor carter		And you are...?
evan		 Evan Treborn.
professor carter		The answer's 'no', Mr. Treborn. Now take a seat. The exam's about to begin.
evan		Leave me alone, asshole. I didn't lay a hand on you, okay?
hunter		Evan, you're hysterical. You study for this?
evan		 We'll find out soon enough.
hunter		 Me neither.
evan		You're kidding. Are these the answers?!
hunter		Damn, Evan, on the D.L.
evan		 Thanks. Wow. Hey, I want to do something really special for Kayleigh tomorrow. If I said I needed some help from you and the brothers...
hunter		I'd say blow me. Get the pledges to do it.
kayleigh		Oh my God, that was good. Where'd you learn all those new tricks?
evan		So it didn't feel... weird?
kayleigh		Yeah, if you call multiple orgasms weird.
evan		Yellow.
kayleigh		Fuck 'em.
evan		What do you think it is about us that makes us so perfect? Like, looking back, whatever gave you the nerve to sneak out and visit me after I moved away?
kayleigh		 As if my dad could've stopped me from seeing you. What's he gonna do to me?
evan		You think we'll always be together?
kayleigh		That is the plan, right? Hell or high water?
evan		Just making sure.
evan		Order, order. So all you rushes know what you've got to do for me?
evan		Pledges, rushees, same difference. Now this is a one-time deal. You do all this for me and I'll never give you shit again. Promise.
kayleigh		I don't understand, where are you taking me?
evan		You'll see.
kayleigh		I don't know what to say. It's beautiful.
evan		Go on. Sit down.
kayleigh		Why are you doing all this for me?
evan		Simple math. When I woke up this morning and saw your smile... I knew that I wanted to spend the rest of my life with you.
hunter		We been lookin' all over for you, man.
senior brother		Someone trashed your car.
evan		 Did you see who did this? You see anyone?
hunter		Probably them Pika fuckers.
evan		How could he get away with this? Right in front of the goddamn frat house!
senior brother		Frat house? Hey man, would you call your "country" a "cunt"?
kayleigh		Don't. He's probably watching.
kayleigh		It's my fault. I should have told you he was released a few weeks ago.
evan		Might'a been nice.  Like this is gonna do any good. Maybe one of the frat guys has a gun.
kayleigh		Please, Evan. Don't even joke. He wouldn't hurt you. He's just trying to scare you away from me.
evan		 Yeah, right. Tell that to Crockett.
kayleigh		 It's not his fault, Evan. You knew how bad he had it when we were kids.
evan		Don't give me this Oprah-book club bad upbringing shit, because you turned out fine.
kayleigh		 My father never laid a hand on me. It's like the prick saved it all up for Tommy.
evan		Fine, then. We'll let campus security deal with him.
kayleigh		Are you okay?
evan		What do you mean?
kayleigh		It's just... you've been acting kinda strange, you know?
evan		Like how?
kayleigh		I don't know. You seem... different. You make weird jokes. Your accents changed. You don't even walk the same.
evan		I walk differently?
kayleigh		I can't put my finger on it, but everything's a bit off. Even the dinner tonight. It was beautiful, but...
evan		I know I've been actin strange lately. It's just that... I don't want anything to happen to us.
kayleigh		Wait. Something's not right. Isn't that your jacket?
evan		What?
kayleigh		Tommy.
evan		Leave us alone you sick fuck!
tommy		Get this "us" shit. As if I was gonna lay a hand on my own sister. You've done nicely for yourself, Evan. Nice friends, nice life, not to mention you're fucking my sister. Not a bad piece of ass if I say so myself.
kayleigh		Shut up, Tommy!
tommy		Aw, hey now, that was a compliment.
evan		What the hell are you doing?
tommy		It wasn't enough that the whole world loves you, but you had to take away the last person on earth who didn't think I was a piece of shit.
evan		 No one thinks you're a piece of shit, Tommy.
tommy		Right, Evan. I believe you just said "sick fuck."
kayleigh		Evan, stop! You're gonna kill him!
evan		He's a fucking maniac!
evan		He ruined Lenny's life --
evan		He killed Crockett --  And he's trying to kill me, Kayleigh! He's trying to fucking kill me!
carlos		First time?
carlos		Best not bitch up. Wind up someone's luggage that way.
evan		 Can you protect me?
carlos		Jesus himself couldn't make me take on the Brotherhood. When they come, just put your mind in another place, man. Be somewhere else.
andrea		...I spoke to your new lawyer about the appeal. He's sure he can get you off on self-defense, so if you're patient.
evan		How long will I be in here?
andrea		I don't know. These things take time.
evan		How's Kayleigh doing? She all right?
evan		What about my journals, Mom? Did you bring the ones I asked for?
andrea		I found these. The others are still in storage.
evan		Damn it, Mom. I told you I need them all!
andrea		Fine. You'll get them, Evan. But I think it's far more important to focus on your case right now.
evan		Sure, Mom. You're right. Just try to tell Kayleigh I'm sorry.
andrea		I'm not gonna lose you, kiddo. Promise me you'll hang on, Ev.
karl		Shit on my dick or blood on my knife.
evan		Let go! They're mine!
evan		Motherfucker!
karl		We'll be comin' for you tonight, sister.
karl		 Today I found my grandfather's death certificate. He died in a nut house, just like my father. Mom denies it, but she thinks I'm gonna end up the same way...
evan		You're religious Carlos, you believe that bit about "the Lord works in mysterious ways?"
carlos		Straight up.
evan		Because I think he sent me to your cell on purpose. For you to help me.
carlos		Shit. I knew you were crazy.
evan		I ain't bullshitting. Jesus speaks to me in my dreams.
evan		Pack of smokes says I can prove it to you.
evan		So when I'm out, I need you to watch my face and hands closely.
carlos		You need to see the prison shrink, man.
evan		Anything today?
convict		Yep. Just not for you.
evan		Just tell me if anything weird happens.
carlos		Weirder than this?
evan		Marks, scars, I dunno. Anything could happen I guess.
evan		 Oh, Mrs. Boswelllllllll?
carlos		Oh sweet Jesus. It's true. It's a miracle! A miracle!
carlos		Your hands. The stigmata!
evan		What did you see? What did it look like?
carlos		 Signs of the Lord. They just appeared out of nowhere. I thought you were loco!
evan		So you believe me?
evan		I want to make a deal.
evan		Look. I'm new to all this but I think I get how things work. You gotta join a gang or else end up dead meat.
evan		Well it sure ain't gonna fucking be with no niggers or spics. So how do we do this? You gotta work your way up, and I'm the new guy.  So... should I... I mean, do I suck your dicks right now?
karl		Is your blood pure?
evan		 I ain't no fucking kike if that's what you mean.
rick		Let's see what you got. And watch the fucking teeth or you'll be leaving without 'em.
evan		Carlos!
evan		We took the woods behind the junkyard just to make sure we wouldn't bump into Tommy. We hadn't seen the smoke yet.
evan		Rot in hell you fucking animals.
evan		Wait. Before we --
evan		We need something to cut open the sack!
evan		I want you to take this, Lenny. Today's your day of atonement. I know how guilty you feel about that woman and her baby --
kayleigh		Evan. Stop it. It's not the time.
evan		 Today you get a chance to redeem yourself. Start over with a clean slate. Tabula rasa --
lenny		What are you talking about?
kayleigh		You're acting crazy!
evan		 Please. If you've ever trusted me before, trust me on this one.
evan		Cut the rope.
tommy		Listen to me good, Evan...
evan		I'll do whatever you want. You don't want me to ever see Kayleigh again, fine. Just let Crockett go. Besides, you kill him now and they'll stick you in juvy for sure. And I know you'd never leave your sister alone with your father.
evan		Oh fuck, Lenny, no!
evan		Christ. Help me.
thumper		Someone call 9-1-1!
evan		Okay, doc. What's the damage? How much time have I got?
andrea		Cute, Evan.
evan		Are you sure? Not even with my father?
andrea		So what did you find.
evan		 Lemme guess. Would that be where the memories are stored?
andrea		What does that mean for Evan?
evan		 He's saying it's like forty years worth of new memories have been jammed in my brain since last year. Overload city. 'Sat about the gist of it, doc?
evan		 Mind if I wait in the car? The lighting here bugs my eyes.
evan		Well, it's nice seeing you again. But you know, people to see, things to read...
evan		Is there anything you need? Anything I can get you?
evan		What about the models, man? Bet I can get you a shitload of models up in here.
evan		Okay, Lenny. Just wanted to say "hi".
lenny		You knew the whole time, didn't you?  When you put the blade in my hand, you knew something big was going to happen. Didn't you?!
evan		 Y... yes. I guess I did.
lenny		Then you should be where I am. You should be where I am.
evan		 Today I get to meet my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy...
jason		Are you okay? You looked like you were somewhere else for a second there.
evan		Look, Jason, I need some fast answers if I'm ever gonna fix what I've done.
jason		I was praying this curse would have ended with me.
evan		But it didn't. And now I need info to make things right again and you're the only one who can give it to me.
jason		 There is no "right". When you change who people are, you destroy who they were.
evan		Who's to say you can't make things better?
jason		You can't play God, son. It must end with me. Just by being here, you may be killing your mother.
evan		Bullshit. I'll send you a postcard when I've made everything perfect again.
waitress		Just get out, didja?
evan		Huh?
waitress		 Nothing. Just that my brother did a stint in the pen and he used to eat like that.
evan		 I come from a big family.
waitress		Meant no offense.
evan		None taken. Hey, uh, does Kayleigh Miller still work here?
waitress		 Sorry. Never heard of her.
evan		Good guess, fuckbag.  Remember me now? We had a great chat once when I was seven.
evan		One question, fuckbag. Where can I find your daughter?
kayleigh		Oh, I thought you were my eight o'clock. Make it fast, I'm expecting someone.
evan		Nice to see you, too. Can I come in?
kayleigh		If I knew you were coming I'd have cleaned the stains off the sheets.
kayleigh		What do you want?
evan		I just needed to see... a friendly face.
kayleigh		Well, time is money, Evan. So you...
kayleigh		Well, I guess I can spare ten minutes for an old friend, right?
kayleigh		So how's tricks? Sorry, occupational humor.
evan		I get it. You can drop it now.
kayleigh		 Oh, I'm sorry. Does my line of work make you uncomfortable, precious?
evan		No. Just that you need to hurt me with it. I've been where you've been.
kayleigh		Ha! Where's that?
evan		The bottom. When you're just a piece of meat waiting for the next attack.
kayleigh		What's happened to you?
evan		You wouldn't believe me. I mean, people always say, "You wouldn't believe me", but in this case, it's not even worth trying.
kayleigh		I've seen some sickening shit. I don't blink twice anymore, especially in your case.
evan		Why's that?
kayleigh		Because you're... different.
evan		Different? How?
kayleigh		Let me ask you a question. Just a little one that's been gnawing at me for years.
evan		Yeah?
kayleigh		On the bridge. How did you know that Tommy had your dog? That was no fucking hunch.
evan		Do you remember when I was a kid and I had those blackouts?
kayleigh		You're right, Evan, I don't believe you.
evan		I never thought you would. That's why I've never bothered to tell a soul until now, and why I never will again.
kayleigh		I'm the only person you've told? That's a great line. Does that make other girls swoon? Do they actually eat up this bullshit?
evan		I couldn't give a shit if you believe me or not, and frankly I'm too tired to prove it to you.
kayleigh		Oh? There's proof now?
evan		 Shit. I dunno. How would I know about the twin moles on your inner thigh?
kayleigh		Anyone with fifty bucks could tell you that.
evan		Then forget that. How about... you prefer the smell of a skunk to flowers, you hate cilantro because for reasons unknown to you, it reminds you of your step-sister.
evan		Oh! And when you orgasm, your toes go numb. I'm sure your clientele aren't privy to that one.
evan		I just thought you should know.
kayleigh		Know what?
evan		That I didn't leave you there to rot.
kayleigh		There's one major hole in your story.
evan		Which is?
kayleigh		There is no fuckin' way on this planet or any other that I was in some fuckin' sorority.
kayleigh		Sure you don't want your wallet?
evan		Don't think I'll need it where I'm going.
kayleigh		Off to change everyone's life again, is that it? Maybe this time you'll pop up in some mansion while I wind up in Tijuana doing the donkey act.
evan		I'm over it. Whenever I try to help anyone it all turns to shit.
kayleigh		Well, don't give up now, Slick. You've already done so much for me. Hell, why don't you go back in time and save Mrs. Halpern and her baby. Then maybe Lenny wouldn't freak out and ruin my family.
kayleigh		Oh, here's one! Go back when I'm seven and fuck me in front of Daddy's handicam, you know, straighten me out a bit...
evan		Get out. Both of you.
thumper		Sorry, dude. Just figured it'd be okay with you bein' sick and all.
evan		I'm not saying it again.
evan		 Lord give me the strength and guidance I need to set things right.
evan		Lady, stay back! Don't go near the mailbox!
evan		I mean it, woman! Get the hell back!
lenny		There's a bomb in the mailbox. Get away!
tommy		I'll save you lady!
evan		I thought I told you two to beat it.
lenny		What? Hey, sorry, man. We wake you up?
evan		No, it's cool.  Really cool.
evan		Where are we going?
kayleigh		We have to get you to Sunnyvale. You're having one of your famous hemorrhages.
evan		Stop! Take me back!
lenny		Sorry, tough guy, no can do. Your mother would kill me.
evan		Take me back, Lenny!  You owe me that much.
kayleigh		What are you geeks looking at? Must be nice to be so goddamned perfect, huh? Fucking losers.
lenny		'Sup, Sheila! We missed you at the party! Don't even think I'm giving you my lab notes either! Think I like getting up for "eight thirty's"?
lenny		Hey, there's Tommy.
tommy		I did what you said, man! We're pooling our student funds with Hillel House and we're going to have an Awareness Dance.
evan		Oh goody, nothing like spinning my chair around to a techno mix of Hava Nagila til I puke.
lenny		Uh, we should be getting to class now.
evan		Forget it. What's the point of Psych now? Tomorrow I could wake up as some dirt farmer in Bangladesh.
kayleigh		Let's go for a stroll.
evan		So Tommy's really into this Jesus kick, huh?
kayleigh		You know how spiritual he's gotten ever since he saved Mrs. Halpern and Katie.
evan		He saved Mrs. Halpern? Please, the twisted fuck.
kayleigh		Is something the matter?
evan		 Yeah, I think I gotta get these fixed or something.
evan		Kayleigh? Do you ever think about "us?" I mean, wonder if it could ever have been different between the two of us?
kayleigh		Sure, Evan, why not? You were the first person I really ever cared about.
evan		I was?
kayleigh		That's why when I was little I never went to live with my mother.
evan		I don't get it.
kayleigh		 When my folks split, they gave me and Tommy a choice who we wanted to live with. I couldn't stand my dad, but I knew if I moved to my mom's I'd never see you again.
evan		I never knew that. So then you still sometimes think of us... together?
kayleigh		It's crossed my mind from time to time.
evan		 And...?
kayleigh		Well a lot of things cross my mind. I've always been a fast thinker, Ev. I can play out the movie of our entire lives in under a second. Boom -- we fall in love -- get married -- two kids, your keen analytical insight matched to my generous nature -- kids grow old as do we, relatively stable relationships, matching burial plots, the whole bit. It took a lot longer to spit out than to imagine.
evan		Then you think it might have worked out?
kayleigh		Why not? But that's not how things wound up. I'm with Lenny, Lenny's your friend. And there it ends.
evan		Would it make any difference if I told you that no one could possibly love anyone as much as I love you?
tommy		You forgot to put the toaster on the edge.
evan		But you, Kayleigh and Lenny like toast. And that's really all that matters now.
tommy		I'll get you changed. Visiting hours are almost up.
evan		 What, did mom get transferred again?
andrea		Looking. Good. Kiddo.
evan		 Lung cancer?
tommy		Sorry, Mrs. T. He's been out of sorts lately.
evan		Right... You started chain smoking after I blew myself up.
evan		There must be a way to fix this.
andrea		Fix?
evan		I just need the entry about the blockbuster. Wait, shit, no arms. I never even got the chance to write it.
andrea		Is Evan... different?
tommy		He's just going through some tough times.
evan		Mom. Don't cry. I can change this.
tommy		I think I'll go check out the chapel.
andrea		You're. Acting. Like your father.
evan		Come on, Mom. Just 'cause Dad was my age when he started going crazy doesn't mean that I'm nuts.
andrea		How. Did you. Know that?
evan		You told me that on Parents' Weekend. Remember? Wait, that wasn't me. Or you.
andrea		Just. Like. Jason.
evan		Don't worry. I'm gonna get you out of here.
andrea		Stop him. Stop him. Stop him...
lenny		Are you sure you even packed it?
evan		My mom packed for me. I think she sent everything I ever owned. So we'll see.
lenny		Is this it?
lenny		What do you need it for? I don't get you lately.
evan		Duly noted. Now I'm gonna ask you for one last favor.
lenny		What?
evan		Shhh. I need to concentrate on the blockbuster if I'm gonna destroy it.
lenny		 Destroy it?
evan		If I hadn't blown my arms off, Mom never woulda started smoking in the first place. Now shhhh.
evan		Yes. Now how do I destroy the blockbuster?
andrea		Evan? What are you doing with that knife?
evan		Well, that didn't work...
evan		Wait! I need my belt!
evan		 Loo loo, skip to my loo. Loo loo, skip to my loo.
evan		Loo, loo, skip to my loo.
evan		Back off, fuckbag!
evan		Amazing. That word never fails to make an impression with you...
evan		And I'll tell the Child Protective Services about your kiddie porn endeavors. One step closer and I'll shove this up your ass!
evan		Been there, done that.
evan		Oh God, Kayleigh...
evan		 Kayleigh... no! You can't die again! I won't let this happen. I won't!
evan		Where are they?!
evan		Where are my goddamn books?
evan		My journals! Where are they?
evan		But I... I need those books.
evan		Photos?
andrea		No dances, just tell me.
evan		Hey, Mom, didja remember to bring those goofy old home movies we used to make?
evan		If anyone finds this, then I guess my plan didn't work and I'm already dead.
evan		But I -- I can just go back to the beginning of all this, I might be able to save her.
andrea		Go on, Evan. Introduce yourself.
evan		I hate you. If you ever come near me again, I'll kill you and your whole family.
kayleigh's mother		What did you say to her? What happened?!
evan		Goodbye.
evan		I'll think I'll be alright this time.  I really do.
lenny		You sure about this?
evan		 Yeah, Ma. I'm running a little late for lunch. One of my patients had a breakdown. Anyway, order some soup in the meantime. See ya soon.
****Dialogues from script :Cable_Guy.txt****

steve		 Jesus, where's the cable guy already?
steven		 Hello.
rick		How's the move going?
steven		Horrible. The cable guy is missing in action. Apparently he's going to be here sometime between eight AM and my death.
rick		You haven't called Robin have you? Please tell me you didn't call her.
steven		 I can't believe she's doing this.
rick		You never should have asked her to marry you. You're the mad smotherer.
steven		All she had to do was say no. She didn't have to kick me out. I feel like Felix Unger.
rick		You forced her to evaluate the relationship. If you didn't propose she would never have realized how unhappy she was.
steve		I don't want to talk about it. So what time are you going to come by?
rick		I can't. I'm working double shifts the rest of the week.
steven		It's my first night here. Don't do this to me.
rick		The other camera guy pulled out his back. Besides, I spent the last two weeks with you on my couch. Isn't that enough?
steven		Fine, fine.
rick		One piece of advice. Slip the cable guy fifty bucks, he'll give you all the movie channels for free. Even the dirty ones.
steven		I couldn't. I'm not good at that stuff. What if he says no? I'll feel like an idiot.
rick		None of them say no, believe me. I'll talk to you later.
steven		Where the hell is he?
steven		 Forget it. Idiots.
steven		Don't leave! I'm here! I'm here!
steven		Hey, wait!
cable guy		Well, look who decided to show up. I was just gonna go collect my retirement pension.
steven		You were supposed to be here four hours ago.
cable guy		Was I? So I'm the tardy one. Good to know.
steven		Yes. I had to go to the Bed 'n Bath place, but now it's closed. CABLE GUY
steven		What happened?
cable guy		 They had a lot of cats.
cable guy		Hey, this could be a cool pad. Here is a comment card.
cable guy		Please mail it in when I am done.
steven		These go to your boss?
cable guy		No, they go to me. I'm a perfectioniss perfectioniss  perfectionisst. Now let's take a look at what we're dealing with.
cable guy		Come on baby. Come on baby. Talk to me baby. Tell me where you like it. That's it baby.
cable guy		Here's your sweet spot.
cable guy		So your lady kicked you out.
steven		What?
cable guy		In preparing your service I noticed you were previously wired across town at 1268 and a half Chestnut. Last week the billing was transferred to one Robin Harris. Smells like heartbreak to me.
steven		I really don't want to talk about it with you. Could you please just install my cable? I'm going to get dressed.
cable guy		No sweat.
cable guy		Hey, I'm going to go to the hallway so I can access the floorboards. Don't be spooked if you hear someone crawling underneath you.
steven		Okay, whatever.
cable guy		Put on your bathing suit 'cause you'll be channel surfing in no time.
rikki klieman		 So ends day fifty-four of the trial of former child star Sam Sweet who has been accused of shooting his twin brother, Stan, in cold blood. The twins were stars of the hit sitcom "Double Trouble" which aired from nineteen seventy-seven till nineteen eighty-four.
rikki klieman		 Life wasn't so sweet after the cancellation of their program. Hollywood chewed them up and spit them out. A frustrated Sam turned to petty larceny, while his more impressionable brother, Stan, fell in with a fringe cult called "The Brotherhood of Friends." Reduced to tabloid fodder a fury was growing inside of Sam. A burning need to be recognized as an individual, not a person famous for having an identical twin. A need that took the form of four shotgun blasts on the night of November fourteenth. And so today his attorneys continue the unusual defense of "Twin Envy."
steven		How's it going?
cable guy		Guilty, guilty, guilt-freakin-tee. I hope they fry this bastard.
steven		 What happened?
cable guy		 The arrangement of your major appliances and your furniture was causing some noisy pics and hum bars in your reception. I moved a few things. Cleared it right up. Is that cool?
steven		 I guess so.
cable guy		You programmed?  Then let me slave your remotes.
cable guy		Ooh, maybe we should leave these two alone.
steven		So after this I'll only need one remote for everything?
cable guy		You know you're pretty good at this. You could be a cable guy yourself.  Now let me check your levels.
cable guy		All right. That about does it. I just have some paperwork for you to fill out. Sign here.
cable guy		That gave me power of attorney over you.  Joking.
cable guy		I'm about finished here.  Okay. I feel good about this.
steven		One thing.
cable guy		 Yeah!
steven		I uh I have this friend and he said he gave his cable guy fifty bucks and he got free movie channels. Have you ever heard of anything like that?
cable guy		 You mean illegal cable?
steven		Uh yes.
cable guy		Who told you that? I want his name.
steven		Forget it.
cable guy		You're offering me a bribe? What you have just done is illegal, and in this state if convicted, you could be fined five-thousand dollars or spend six months in a correctional facility.
steven		Please that was dumb. I was just making conversation
cable guy		 I'm just jerking your chain. Wake up little snoozy. I'll juice you up. All it is is a push of a button.
steven		Oh, great. How much?
cable guy		Don't worry about it. I couldn't charge you. Your girl just booted you. Consider it one guy doing another guy a solid.
steven		That is so nice.
cable guy		Hey, you're a 'nice' guy. You'd be surprised how many customers treat you like shit, like I'm a god damn plumber or something.  Here is my personal beeper number. It's just for my preferred customers. Never call the company, they'll just put you on hold.
steven		Thanks. Really.  You're gonna get some good marks here.
cable guy		Maybe some day I'll take you out to the satellite and show you how all this stuff works. It's really incredible.
steven		Sure. We should do that one day.
cable guy		How 'bout tomorrow?
steven		Tomorrow? Tomorrow's not good.
cable guy		What are you going to do, sit home and stew about your ex?
steven		No.
cable guy		 Oh, okay. I guess I crossed the line. Sorry.
steven		 You didn't cross the line.
cable guy		No? Cool. I'll pick you up at six-thirty. On the flip side.
steven		There are twenty-four classrooms; each can be converted into a 1400 square foot home. The facility has two tennis courts, an Olympic size pool and full gym, with a stage if the residents decide they want to perform "Oklahoma."
steven		The kitsch appeal of living in an old schoolhouse should be very attractive to young, upwardly mobile home buyers. And most important, the structure is available in foreclosure. If we put down a cash bid, we're going to steal this thing.
steve		Yeah.
steve		Robin and I have been having a difficult time. I moved out, but I really think it's only temporary.
steven		Absolutely. Now I've got more time than ever. It's a good thing.  I know I can pull this thing off.
steven		Thank you. I will.
steven		I'll be right back.
steven		Hello.
robin		Steven, what are you doing here?
steven		I was just in the area. Thought I'd pop by. How's work? How'd the big teen crush article come out?
robin		They liked it.  I thought we agreed we weren't going to see each other for a month.
steven		I know, it's just Daniels accepted my proposal to renovate the old schoolhouse.
robin		That's wonderful, congratulations.
steven		I know I'm breaking the rules, but come have dinner with me tonight to celebrate.
robin		I don't think we should.
steven		Come on, this is the biggest day of my career.
robin		Don't put me in this position.
steven		What position? I want to share this with you.
robin		 I love you, but I need to take some time on my own to see how I feel. You agreed to this. I mean this is exactly why we broke up, because you never listen to me.
steve		What? Now we're broken up? What happened to 'trial separation?'
robin		I can't get into this now. If you haven't noticed, I'm at work.
steve		Sorry to disturb you.
robin		 Steven. Congratulations. I know how much this means to you. You deserve it.
steven		Thanks.
cable guy		Steven!!!!  Hey buddy!!! Come on down!!!
reporter		Coming up next a special report, "Loneliness, America's Silent Killer."
steven		 What the hell.
steven		How's it going?
cable guy		Howdy partner. Climb aboard.
cable guy		Thanks for coming out. You know most people think cable is just a simple co-ax that comes out of the wall. They never take the time to understand how it works.
steven		Where exactly are we goin?
cable guy		We're going to take a ride on the information superhighway.
cable guy		It all started in Lansford, Pennsylvania where Panther Valley Television, with the assistance of Jerrod Electronics, created the first cable television system.
cable guy		I went to Lansford once. It's the Cable Guy's Mecca. It was very emotional.
cable guy		I come here to think sometimes. To clear my head.
cable guy		There she is. Right now she's sending entertainment and information to millions of satisfied citizens.
steven		That's pretty impressive.
cable guy		See, I knew the moment I met you that you would appreciate this.
cable guy		 Come on up! What are you waiting for?!
cable guy		Sometimes I'll sit here and imagine that there are billions of bits of information surging through me.
steven		I've watched a lot of TV in my life. I guess I've always taken it for granted.
cable guy		When I was a kid my mom worked nights. Never met dad. But the old TV was always there for me.
steven		I know what you mean. My dad was there, but he might as well have been gone. My mom is a stewardess. She was always out of town.
cable guy		 That's tough. You must have a lot of abandonment issues. Reality isn't "Father Knows Best," it's a kick in the face on Saturday night. But what doesn't kill us makes us stronger, right?
steven		 You know my brother's a speech therapist.
cable guy		So?
steven		Never mind.
cable guy		 So, you're pretty love struck about your lady, huh?
steven		I miss her. I asked her to marry me, and she asked me to move out.
cable guy		I hate that.
steven		She said she felt pressured. Can you believe that?
cable guy		Women are a labyrinth. Can I be frank? I don't think you listen to her. I think you try to tell her what she wants to hear. She wants you to thirst for knowledge about who she is. All the complicated splendor that is woman. When your love is truly giving, it will come back to you ten-fold.
steven		You're right. That is remarkably insightful.
cable guy		Yeah, it was Jerry Springer's final thought on Friday's show.
cable guy		You know what? Women are suckers for "Sleepless in Seattle." It's on HBO this month. That's your bait right there.
steven		Robin loves that movie.
cable guy		They all do. Next time you talk to her tell her you're cooking yourself dinner, and watching it by yourself. Sound like you're happier than a pig in shit. She'll come running. Betcha. Then just play it cool.
steven		Maybe I will.
steven		Thanks a lot. I'm embarrassed to say this, but I don't know your name. What is it?
cable guy		 You really want to know my name? You do? Really? It's Ernie Douglas. But my friends call me Chip.
steven		I'll see ya' Chip.
cable guy		Let's just remember right now. You know some people walk through their entire lives and never find a true friend.  I guess we're the lucky ones.
steven		Uh good-bye.
cable guy		Later buddy. I'll catch ya' on the flip side.
steven		I don't listen to you. I pretend to understand but I'm really just saying what I think you want to hear. So from now on I'm going to try my best to listen more because I do love you and am interested in learning about every detail about the complicated splendor that is you.
robin		Oh.
steven		I want us to get back together, but I can see why taking this time might be good for us. So, I'm not mad.
robin		Sometimes time apart is healthy.
steven		You're right. Well, that's what I came here to say. Look, I've got to get back to the office.
robin		So, are you doing anything tomorrow?
steven		I'm just going to cook myself dinner and watch a movie. "Sleepless in Seattle" is on cable.
robin		Really?
steven		If you're around you should drop by and check out the new apartment.
robin		Okay, maybe I will.
tabitha soren		Today in the Sam Sweet case the prosecution played the 911 call that Sam Sweet made the night he murdered his brother. Keep in mind, he confessed one month later.
sam sweet		Oh my god, they shot him with a shot gun four times. I mean I think it was a shotgun. Who would do such a thing?! I think it was an Asian gang or something. They were speaking some other language.
tabitha soren		Hmm. Who indeed? Coming up next, a rare interview with Michael Jackson's zoo- keeper.
steven		Here, here, here.
rick		 Shit! My fault! My fault!
steven		Not your fault. I'm in the zone. There is no stopping me today.
cable guy		Hey, you guys play here, too? Cool. I was just in the neighborhood. Thought I'd run the court for a couple of innings.
rick		 Great. We need another man.
steven		This is Chip Douglas my cable guy.
cable guy		We met about a week ago during a routine installation, but I feel like I've known him my whole life.
rick		Oh really. That's sweet. All right Chip Douglas, you're on shirts. Let's play.
cable guy		No, I want to be on Steven's team. I'm skins.
jeff		I don't care, I'll be shirts. Let's just play.
cable guy		Wait a sec'. I've got to warm up.
cable guy		Let's get it on!
steven		Are you any good?
cable guy		Feed me under the boards and you'll find out.
cable guy		 Traveling! That's traveling!
rick		Yeah, whatever you say Chip.
cable guy		All right, so we're playing that type of game. Prison rules. I get it.
cable guy		Feed me the rock! Feed me the rock! I'm open!
cable guy		 You want to mug me, my wallet is in my other pants.
steven		 What are you doing?
cable guy		Don't play from fear Steven. We can take these guys.
cable guy		Take it to the hole!
cable guy		Hey, are you okay?
steven		Yeah. I'm fine.
cable guy		Let's switch. I'll cover Rick.
rick		 What the hell was that? That's it. I've had enough.
jeff		Thanks for bringing your "friend".
cable guy		Good game.  You were tough out there. Your play brought me up to a higher level. I mean that.
rick		 Yeah.
steven		What are you doing?
cable guy		It was payback time. I was protecting you.
steven		You ruined the game.
cable guy		I don't appreciate your tone Steven. That's not the way friends speak to each other.
steven		What are you talking about? I don't even know you!
cable guy		Well let's fix that. Let me buy you a Heineken?
steven		No, I'm going home.
cable guy		Well, uh, I guess we'll talk later. I've got to go shower up and do some stuff. I'll call you if I get a chance. Or you call me or something.
cable guy		And down low.
cable guy		 Too slow. Have a good one.
steven		 Yeah, have a good one.
message voice		You have eleven messages.
steven's mother		 Steven, it's mom. Give me a call. I'm still your mother.
steven's father		 I'm getting on. Steven call your mother.
cable guy		 What's up Steven? I'm at a pay phone. If you're there pick up. Pick up. Pick up. Okay, I'll be home later. I'll talk to you then.
cable guy		 Sorry, I had call waiting, didn't get to it, thought it might have been you. All right, bye.
cable guy		 I guess you're too busy to call your friends.
cable guy		 Shit.
steven		Hey, good to see you.
steven		Come on in. What do you think of the place?
robin		You made some interesting choices laying out the room.
steven		 That's actually where the movers put the furniture. I'm gonna change it, very soon.
robin		No, I like it.
robin		So how's work?
steven		Work's good.
robin		How's Hal?
steven		Don't get me started. That guy has no vision. It's like working for Mr. MaGoo. He's just worthless.
robin		It's just great that you're getting to do it. It's a real step up.
steven		I know. Now if only someone at corporate smartened up enough to dump Hal, then I could really get some stuff done.
robin		It's nice to see you doing so well.
steven		Well, it's nice just to see you.  Hey, it should be starting.
steven		Damn cable is out. Son of a bitch.
robin		It's alright. We can watch it another night.
steven		No, no. We really should see it now. Now's a good time.
steven		Wait, wait. I know what to do.
steven		The Cable Guy's a friend of mine. I'll just page him. We'll have this fixed in no time.
steven		That was fast.
cable guy		Is there a problem with your service?
steven		Yeah my cable went out.
cable guy		Really?
cable guy		So you called me. Interesting how you call when you need something. Is that how you treat people?
steven		I've been really busy. You've got to get my cable going, Robin is here. This is really important.
cable guy		But calling me back isn't?
steven		I'm sorry. Please, you've got to help me.
cable guy		Why should I help you? I gave you free cable. What have you ever done for me?
steven		Anything you want. Name it  quickly.
cable guy		Tomorrow night, we hang out.
steven		Fine, whatever you want.
cable guy		God bless you. You're too good to me.
cable guy		 All set.
steven		So what's with the cut cord?
cable guy		 She's pretty. And don't kiss her. Don't even touch her. Fight the urge at all costs. It will pay off later with
cable guy		Enjoy the flick.
robin		Who was that?
steven		Nobody.
cable guy		Sorry about yesterday. I was in kind of a weird mood. How'd things go with you? Keep 'em closed.
steven		Pretty well. We'll see. Look, about the other night. I didn't appreciate you --
cable guy		Don't peek. I want this to be a surprise.
steven		I really don't need to be surprised. Where are we going?
cable guy		Only the best restaurant in town.
cable guy		Okay, here we are. Open sesame.
steven		Medieval Times?
cable guy		I know what you're thinking. Don't worry, I'm buying.
steven		Funny. I never thought I would ever come here.
cable guy		I love this place. I come here twice a week.
cable guy		Oh man, that's my look. I love big butts. Ow, that hurts.
cable guy		There oughta be a law. Man she is hot. It's just not fair.
steven		 Please don't.
cable guy		You know what I need right now? Pooooon tang. And I'm not talking about the place in Vietnam.
steven		Good to know.
waitress		 Welcome to Medieval Times. My name is Melinda. I'll be your serving wench. May I get you something from the bar keep?
cable guy		 Dost thou have a mug of ale for me and me mate? He has been pitched in battle for a fortnight an has a King's thirst for the beer thust thou might have for thust.
waitress		 I'll be right back my lord.
cable guy		There you go.
steven		Thanks for the help.
cable guy		Steven, don't turn around, but there is a woman eyeing you like you are a piece of meat and she hasn't eaten in a week.
steven		Really? What does she look like?
cable guy		Shoe's a hottie. I wish she was checking me out. Man -- she is on fire! Total robo-babe.
steven		Are you serious?
cable guy		Don't look.
steven		I've got to look.
cable guy		Okay, but play it cool. Just turn like you are looking for the waitress.
cable guy		Ha-ha. I'm just messing with your mind. But you fell for it man. You are one horny Indian Chief.
steven		 You got me.
cable guy		So what did you want to rap about?
cable guy		Hold that thought. Show's on.
host		Welcome to a magnificent journey into the past. This is Medieval Times!
host		Are you prepapred for a night of feasting and sport the likes of which ye will never forget?!
host		I charge you to stand up on your feet and cheer for your section's knight!
cable guy		Let the games begin! The Red Knight rules! Blue Knight! You're going down! Going down!
steven		 Could I get a knife and fork?
waitress		There were no utensils in Medieval Times, so there are no utensils at 'Medieval Times.' Do you want a refill on that Pepsi?
steven		There were no utensils, but there was Pepsi?
waitress		Look, I have a lot of tables to get to.
cable guy		 Spill his blood! Take his kead! Show no mercy!
cable guy		 Come on, get into it, we won!
steven		 Way to go Red Knight. Good job of killing. Good work.
cable guy		So, what were you saying before?
steven		 How do I put this? I've really enjoyed hanging out with you, but...
cable guy		That's why I became a cable guy. To make friends like you. Every time I walk up to a new door, that door is a possibility for friendship. When I walked in your apartment I knew there was something there. I just knew it.
steven		 I want you to know --
host		We have reached the climax of our competition good people! Now, two noble men from our audience will battle to the death to resolve a grievance. Will a Master...  Steven M. Bartowsky and Lord Ernie Douglas make you way to the fighting pit!
steven		What's going on?
cable guy		We're going to do battle. It'll be fun.
steven		Is this a normal part of the show?
cable guy		No, but I give all the Knights free cable. They said it would be cool if we just went at it for a little while.
steven		Is this safe?
cable guy		That's what the armor's for.
steven		What are we supposed to do? We've got to be careful we don't hurt each other.
cable guy		I cannot listen to any of your instructions for you are my sworn enemy, and are about to meet your demise.
host		Let the battle begin. Come now people, let me hear your voices!
steven		Just take it easy.
steven		 What are you doing?!
cable guy		 I'm trying to kill you.
steven		Hey, watch it!
cable guy		This is just like when Spock had to fight Kirk on 'Star Trek.' Best friends forced to do battle.
cable guy		That's the spirit. Let's give 'em a good show.
cable guy		So that's how it's gonna be, huh? All right. If you want to play rought, Daddy can play rough.
steven		Chip, this isn't funny! Will you stop it!
cable guy		The name is Spock. If we don't battle to the death, they'll kill us both. Good-bye Jim.
steven		This isn't 'Star Trek!'
host		Quickly, muster a top your steed.  Get on the god damn horse! I don't think he's kidding!
angle on		A nerdy, balding man walks over to Rick. ODD MAN He sure can throw a party. Chip's an incredible man. I really admire him. RICK Where do you know him from? ODD MAN He hooked up my cable. Didn't charge me either. That's the kind of guy he is.
cable guy		Hello everyone. First of all I'd like to thank Steven for being such a terific host.
cable guy		Don't forget to kick in some spinach for the beer. Steven ain't made of money. And I expect some of you to join in the clean up crew.
cable guy		 No I really couldn't.
odd man		Come on! Do your song!
cable guy		Okay, just to stop that guy from begging. This number is dedicated to all of the ladies in the house.
steven		You sounded just like Olivia Newton John.
heather		I've been practicing for years.
steven		 So what do you do?
heather		I can barely hear you. Do you want to talk in the other room?
steven		Oh okay.
steven		She says she wants a break, and that's fine with me. I think I needed some time also.
heather		Yeah. I know what you mean.
cable guy		Good morning sleepy head. I hope you don't mind, I crashed on the couch. Bacon and eggs coming up.
steven		Where did Heather go?
cable guy		I heard her slip out early this morning.
steven		What a night. That was just what I needed.
cable guy		You look like a new man.
steven		I feel like a new man. I was getting so used to being rejected. I really liked her.
cable guy		Hey, it was my treat.
steven		 What do you mean it was "your treat?"
cable guy		You know, I bought this time, you buy next time.
steven		 Buy what?
cable guy		You know, the women.
steven		You mean Heather is a prostitute?
cable guy		Of course she is. Do you think a woman like that would hang out with us if we weren't paying? Don't tell me you didn't know.
steven		I can't believe this.
cable guy		She's clean I assure you. I tried her out last week to make sure she was top quality, and I'm as healthy as a horse. Not a drip. She's the best, ask any of my friends.
steve		You've got to be kidding? Please tell me she's a friend of yours. You're just playing with my mind again, right?
cable guy		I wish I had friends like that.
steven		Get out of my house!
cable guy		Don't be ashamed of yourself. I know she was a working girl, but she kind of liked you. You might have been able to get a freebie.
steven		Out, now! I don't ever want to see you again.  Robin is never going to forgive me.
cable guy		I'll tell you how to handle that. Don't tell her. You want to get her back, I'll help you get her back.
steven		I don't want your help. I want you to leave.  And take that stuff out of here.
cable guy		 Whatever. I can take a hint. I'll see ya'.
hostess		May I help you?
cable guy		No, I'm meeting someone here.
bathroom attendant		Most appreciated.
cable guy		You've been working hard. Take a break.
ray		My brother and I wanna start our own sun block company. But the twist is, it's only for skiing. SkiBlock. Or SunSki. We haven't decided yet. Maybe BlockSki. Do you think that sounds good?
robin		BlockSki? That sounds right.
ray		So, Gail told me you're just coming off a relationship.
robin		Well, not really. We're kind of in a holding pattern. He wants more of a commitment, but I don't think I'm ready. I just want to have a good time for a while.
ray		Then we got to get you on a Skidoo!
robin		Skidoo?
ray		High powered snow mobile. It'll blow your mind. It flies over powder like it's glass.
ray		 Hey, how are you doing on that chicken? Have the eggs hatched yet? Thanks.
ray		So, how's your work going?
robin		It's been crazy. They just hired a
ray		Hold that thought. I have to use the rest room. Be right back.
man		 Towel please.
cable guy		My pleasure.
cable guy		Enjoy your meal
cable guy		Good evening sir. Pleasant night, isn't it?
ray		 Yeah.
cable guy		But I guess the weather's always pleasant in here. The winters are remarkably mild.
ray		 I think I can handle it.
cable guy		I'm here to serve you.
ray		Jesus! Get out of here!
cable guy		Most people never bother to take advantage of all my services, for instance
cable guy		I can help you wash up. Cleanliness is so very important.
cable guy		This lotion is superb at removing liver spots.
cable guy		This one is an excellent moisturizer.
cable guy		And one can never underestimate the effects of a good cologne.
cable guy		 Mm High Karate. And now a touch of powder.
cable guy		 Ooh, I almost forget, it's oh so very important to be properly tweezed.
cable guy		You're on a big date, you'll need fresh breath.
cable guy		Whoops, that's not mouth wash. But that reminds me. Proper hair care is a must.
cable guy		Looking good, now let's dry you off.
cable guy		Now suck it. Suck the air!
cable guy		from this angle you look just like Neil Armstrong experiencing G-Force. I believe you have the "right stuff."
cable guy		Don't worry about the tip. But I've got one for you.  Stay away from Robin. She's taken.
anchor man		Here's a bizarre story from downtown, where a man was beaten in a restroom by an assailant disguised as a bathroom attendant. The victim has been unable to speak since the unmotivated attack.
anchor man		A police sketch artist put together this drawing from witnesses' descriptions.
cable guy		Excuse me, apartment 202 is Robin Harris?
female neighbor		 It's right upstairs.
robin		Who is it?
cable guy		It's the Cable Guy.
robin		There's no problem with my cable.
cable guy		I've got an upgrade order for one Robin Harris. The Rainbow package, that's every pay channel available.
robin		I didn't order this.
cable guy		Apparently you've got a secret admirer.
robin		Was it a man named Steven?
cable guy		I can't tell you.
robin		Come on.
cable guy		No, I promised Steven I wouldn't say.
cable guy		Whoops, I slipped. Well you didn't hear it from me.
cable guy		I'm sorry Steven. I'm just a man.
cable guy		That about does it. Enjoy.
robin		So, are you a friend of Steven's?
cable guy		I'm proud to say I am. I installed his cable recently, and we just hit it off.
robin		That's right. You fixed his cable the other night.  So you guys are going out a lot?
cable guy		Not really. That man is devoted to you. You know I'm probably crossing a boundary telling you this, but he's really crazy about you.
robin		Did he say that?
cable guy		Only every five minutes. Quite frankly, I'm sick of hearing it. No, I'm just kidding with you.  He's a good man. He mentioned that you guys have had some problems.
robin		Well, it's a little complicated.
cable guy		It always is. You know I asked a woman to marry me once. She said she wanted to think about it. We agreed to take some time apart to re-assess our feelings. To give each other  Well, she is no longer with us.
robin		I'm so sorry.
cable guy		Sometimes you don't have the time you think you have. Just promise me you'll never go bungee jumping in Mexico.
robin		I promise.
cable guy		 Anyway, I've got to go.
steven		Hello?
steven		Robin?
robin		Yes.
steven		 I love you too.
robin		That was so sweet of you.
steven		 Oh well
robin		You didn't have to do that.
steven		I wanted to.
robin		Giving me free cable. Only you would do that.
steven		You got it? Great.
robin		Yes, your friend came by.
steven		My friend?
robin		The Cable Guy. I liked him. He was kind of goofy, but nice. Thank you so much for doing that.
steven		I'm glad you liked it. I've wanted to do something nice for you, but I've been trying to give you your space.
robin		Well, I don't think we should make rules anymore.
steve		Okay.
robin		Call me later if you're around?
steven		Sure. I'll call you as son as I get home. Bye.
steven		 The concert. Oh Jesus.
rick		What?
steven		Robin just called. I think we're getting back together.
rick		 So you're blowing me off? I can't believe this.
steven		This is the first time she asked to get back together.
rick		You do this every time. You only call me after a girl breaks your heart. "Oh Rick can I stay on your couch? Let's talk all night about how mean girls are." Then as soon as a relationship starts again it's bye-bye Rick. I don't know why I fall for it anymore.
steven		Can't you get someone else to go?
rick		Maybe I'll take MY cable guy.
cable guy		Pretty smooth work. I set 'em up, you knock 'em down.
steven		What?
cable guy		Robin. I got her back for you. I juiced her up.
steven		How do you know we're back together?
cable guy		Free cable is the ultimate aphrodisiac.
steven		I don't want you messing around with my life. You've caused enough trouble as it is.
cable guy		I know. I felt bad about the other night, so I wanted to make it up to you. So what are you doing? Do you want to catch a bite?
steven		 Look, I appreciate you helping me out with Robin. But you have to understand, I'm going to have to work extra hard to not screw this relationship up again. You're a great guy, but I just don't have any room in my life for a new friend. Do you understand?
cable guy		I appreciate your honesty. You're a real straight shooter.
steven		So, you're okay?
cable guy		Hey, I'm a big boy. It's no big deal. Whatever.
steven		All right well, take care.
cable guy		Have a good one.
robin		Are you alright?
steven		I'm fine.
cable guy		Hey, it's Chip Douglas.
robin		Chip Douglas?
cable guy		Your cable guy.
robin		 Oh, hi. What's up?
cable guy		I feel kind of weird calling you. It's just I'm worried about Steven.
robin		What is it?
cable guy		Something isn't right. He hasn't been himself lately. Have you noticed anything?
robin		No, things are actually going really well.
cable guy		Good.
robin		Should I be worried?
cable guy		Nope. I'm probably just being a nervous nellie. Let's just keep our eyes open.
robin		 I will. Good-bye.
robin		Steven Bartowsky please.
joan		Sorry Robin. He's in a meeting.
sales manager		The response to our initial offering has been remarkable. A local investment group has decided to buy the entire complex and turn them into rentals. In retrospect I must admit we made one big mistake.
sales manager		We should have asked for more money.
joan		 Pssst. Steven.
joan		 I really need to speak with you.
steven		 It can wait.
police officer		Is there a Steven Bartowsky here?
steven		Uh I'm Steven Bartowsky. What's going on?
police officer		You are under arrest.
police officer		Receipt of stolen merchandise.
steven		What? I never
police officer		Please put our hands on the table.
police officer		Please follow my instructions. Hands on the table.
police officer		Hands behind your back.
steve		This is all a mistake. I didn't accept any stolen goods.
steven		Hey, relax. I'm the one who's going to jail.
earl		I can't believe you did this.
steven		I didn't do anything. My cable guy gave me all that stuff as a present.
earl		A stereo system and a big screen TV as a present? You expect me to believe that? You know you're killing your mother with this.
steven		I swear it's true.
earl		Why would you accept such extravagant gifts?
steven		I don't know. I shouldn't have.
earl		What is really going on here Steven? Are you on something?
steven		I'm fine! I didn't do anything! Please call my cable guy, his name is Ernie Douglas.
lawyer		Steven, the police looked into it, nobody named Ernie Douglas works for 'The Cable Company.'
earl		You want to tell us the truth now
steven		 That's got to be a mistake. Oh, this is not happening.
earl		Yes it is, and it's killing your mother. Did you deliberately want to ruin our fortieth anniversary party on Monday, Steven?
steven		Yeah, Dad, I did. It's all a big plan.  When can you get me out of here?
lawyer		Unfortunately it's too late to get a bail hearing today. You're going to have to spend the weekend in county lock up.
steven		The entire weekend?
angry prisoner		Ooh, looks like I won the lottery.
steven		What did you hear? What did you hear?
cable guy		Hello Steven. I came as soon as I heard.
steven		Who are you?! What's your real name?!
cable guy		So many questions.
steven		Why are you doing this to me?
cable guy		I didn't do this to you, you did this to you. You need to learn who your friends are.
steven		You set me up.
cable guy		I taught you a lesson. I can be your best friend, or your worst enemy. I hope you'll choose the latter I mean, the former. You know what I mean.
steven		I'll never be your friend. You need help.
cable guy		Right now I think you're the one who needs help. I'm here to give you comfort.
cable guy		Come on, touch it.
cable guy		Come on. You need human contact. Touch it.
steven		I will not touch it.
steven		What are you doing? Stop it.
cable guy		I know how you're feeling right now.
steven		 Stop it! Stop it!
cable guy		I'm here for you.
steven		 Get off there! Are you trying to get me killed?
cable guy		 I was just messing with your mind. That was from 'Midnight Express.' Awesome film. Oliver Stone won the Academy Award for the screenplay.
steven		Guard! Guard!
cable guy		Don't you worry about Robin, I'll make sure she's well taken care of.
steven		You go near her, I'll kill you.
steven		Hey, this is the guy who framed me!
cable guy		 Louis, how'd you like that Tyson fight on Pay Per View? I told you it's more fun when it's Free Per View.
cable guy		 Sea shells. Sea shells. Salmon. Salmon. Silverware. Silverware. Suspicious. Suspicious. Sensational. Sensational.
robin		Hello.
cable guy		Hello. I'm sorry we have to meet under these circumstances.
robin		Me too. Believe me.
cable guy		I know we don't know each other very well, but we do have one thing in common, our concern for Steven.
robin		Well, you were right. Something's happening with him and he won't even acknowledge it.
cable guy		If he refuses to admit he has a problem, we may have to let him hit bottom. He's gonna need some tough love.
robin		 You know his lawyer said that nobody named Ernie Douglas works for the Cable Company.
cable guy		 Did he do a name search? 'Cause I work under a pseudonym so the customers won't harass me at home. Kind of like a stripper. My real name is Larry, Larry Tate.
robin		And he's saying he received all the stereo equipment from you.
cable guy		(I know, and I'm not mad. He's been cornered, so he's telling some wives tales. He doesn't mean to hurt me.
robin		I just feel like I triggered this with him. It's not that I don't want to get married, it's just I felt like he wanted to get married just to get married. I don't deal well with pressure.
cable guy		Hey, welcome to the human race. We're not perfect. We all think we have to look like a 'Baywatch' babe and be as witty as 'Seinfeld.' Give yourself a break.
robin		God I could go for turkey and mashed potatoes now.
cable guy		Comfort food. Bring it on.
robin		Exactly.
cable guy		You've got a great laugh. Can I make a small request? I'd like to hear it a little more often.
barry nolan		The Sam Sweet trial has been thrown into chaos as a result of a videotape made a month after the killing. In this "Hard Copy" exclusive an apparently intoxicated Sam Sweet puts on a macabre show for his friends at a party. The judge has not decided whether this tape is admissible as evidence.
sam sweet		 Look, he's alive.
sam sweet		 Now he's dead.
sam sweet		What? I'm just goofing around.
steven		I'm sorry dad.
earl		I don't want to hear it. Do you know the pain you out your mother through? You're lucky she didn't die of a heart attack.
steven		I didn't do anything.
earl		Just like you said you didn't steal that 'X-Men' comic book when you were eight. Then I found it in your underwear drawer.
steven		Will you ever stop mentioning that?
earl		This cost me a lot of money. You jump bail, and I swear I'll hire a bounty hunter to hunt you down.
robin		Are you sure you're okay?
steven		I'm fine.
robin		You're not fine. When you say you're fine, I know you're not fine.
steven		I just want to get this over with so I can go home and get some rest.
robin		I wanted you to know I invited your friend. He was concerned about you.
steven		Great. I feel. Bad. I've been kind of blowing Rick off lately.
robin		Not Rick.
cable guy		You can only come in if you came to rage.
cable guy		 I'm just joshing. Come on in.
steven		 What is he doing here?
robin		I invited him.
steven		When did you invite him?
robin		At lunch the other day.
steven		At lunch? You had lunch with him?
robin		Hello. You look great.
cable guy		And you are a vision. Hello Steven. You're looking rested.
steven		Come here.
cable guy		Steven, what's with you tonight? I'm getting some really weird energy from you.
steven		Maybe it's because I just got out of prison, where you sent me. I should just drag you to the police right now.
cable guy		You can if you like, but I'd hate to have to show Robin this.
steven		You son of a bitch.
cable guy		Come on Steven, let's just have a good time tonight.
earl		Steven, your mother and I had a long talk with your friend Larry here when he came over to screw in the cable.
steven's mother		 Thank you again for that.
earl		 We owe you an apology. I didn't realize the seriousness of your problems. You're obviously going through some kind of personal hell and I need to be more understanding. We didn't get involved with things like that when I was your age.
earl		I know we haven't been there for you lately but we're going to see you through this, 'cause we are a family. I love you.
steven's mother		You've got a good friend here.
pete		 Hey buddy, we're with you. Keep your chin up.
cable guy		So Steven is carrying this battle ax, and he's chasing me, swinging like a mad man. I'm yelling at him, 'hey, it's just a show!'
steven's sister		He always takes things too seriously.
cable guy		Tell me something I don't know. This guy almost took my head off.
steven		What are you doing?
cable guy		It's from "Goodfellas." Remember the intro scene at the bar. I'm Johnny Two Times.
cable guy		You'll never catch me copper.
cable guy		I'm gonna wear a disguise.
cable guy		Oh, you got me.
cable guy		 Aaah!!! Nobody messes with me and lives!
cable guy		Oh man, you should have seen your face. It was classic.
steven		Very funny. Tony, go to your mother!
cable guy		Look what you've done.
steven		I know you beat up Robin's date.
cable guy		I guess I did what you didn't have the guts to do.
steven		You stay away from Robin.
cable guy		 Don't mess with me. I'm feeling like a part of the family, and I like it. You should try it sometime.
steven's mother		 My, you two look like brothers. Come on back, we're all having coffee in the living room.
cable guy		 Are you guys trying to fatten me up? 'Cause if you are, you're doing a damn good job of it.
cable guy		You guys have never played "Porno Password?"
earl		No, but I like the sound of it.
cable guy		It's the adult version of the popular television game show. Robin you're on my team. Steven, you're with mom.  You're the audience.
cable guy		 The password is vagina.
steven		I really don't want to play this game.  Woman. Woman.
steven's mother		Uh man?
steven		No.
cable guy		 Pe-nis. Pe-nis. Pe-nis.
cable guy		Peeee-nis. Peeee-nis.
robin		Vagina?
cable guy		 Yes!
earl		 Whoops.
cable guy		The password is nipple.
steven		Can I pass?
earl		Come on Steven, don't be a stick in the mud.
steven		Breast. Breast.
steven's mother		Tit?
cable guy		Hard  Hard
robin		Erection?
steven		Center. Center.
steven's mother		Nipple?
steven's mother		I can't believe I got it. I was going to say areola.
cable guy		I wish you did, 'cause we'd be ahead.
cable guy		The password is I'm not sure how to pronounce this, it's either clitoris, or clit-oris.
steven		 I can't say that to my mother!
earl		Hey, she's a grown woman. She can handle it.
robin		Come on Steven. We're just having fun.
steven		No, I've had enough. I can't do this. This guy is ruining my life, I won't sit here and play X-rated party games with him.
earl		Steven, I really think you're over- reacting.
steven		I am not over-reacting. You're all being fooled by this guy! He's a felon for Christ sake!  I hate you! Get out of my life!
cable guy		I'm sorry everyone. If I am a nuisance, I will leave. I would never stay where I am not wanted.
robin		 Steven, you're being an asshole.
earl		Yeah, Steven it seems like you're the one with the problem.
steven		What? You have no idea what this guy is really like.
cable guy		I'll just go.
steven		See what I mean!
cable guy		Steven, what's with you tonight?  Robin showed me that birthmark on her left shoulder. It's very sexy.
robin		 I can't believe you.
cable guy		I'm fine. Thank you for a delightful evening.  I forgive you.
steven		You don't understand.
robin		I just think you were completely out of line. I don't know what's happening to you these days.
steven		Robin, this guy is a sociopath. He leaves messages on my machine night and day. He shows up wherever I go. He won't leave me alone.
robin		Sounds familiar.
steven		You know he was the one who beat up your date at that restaurant. That's right. And he gave you the free cable. It wasn't me.
robin		But you took the credit for it?
steven		That's what he wanted. He was manipulating me. It feels so good to be honest about this. We're finally communicating. I've been wanting to tell you for so long, but he's been blackmailing me.
robin		Blackmailing you? How?
steven		With a photograph.
robin		Of what?
steven		Me with a... prostitute.
robin		What?!
steven		He set it up. He invited this woman to my party and didn't tell me she was a prostitute. I'm so glad we can talk about this.
robin		When did you have a party?
steven		When we weren't communicating. I invited you. You were out on a date.
robin		And you were with a prostitute.
steven		She seduced me. That's what they do. They're professionals. And I didn't even know she was a prostitute.
robin		So that makes it better?
steven		That's not the point. The point is this guy has been setting me up. He's responsible.
robin		He didn't have sex with a whore. You did.
steven		Robin you don't --
robin		I don't want to hear it. Breaking up was the best thing we ever did. You have some serious problems, and it's not my responsibility to help you. I am only responsible for my own happiness.
steven		Where did that come from?
robin		It was Jerry Springer's "final thought."
steven		I'm sorry I've been blowing you off.
rick		You bet your ass you've been blowing me off.
steven		It's just, this guy is really doing a number on me.
rick		I told you not to hang out with him.
steven		You're the one who told me to offer him money so I could get free cable.
rick		You didn't tell me he was a psychopath.  I'll see if I can get my friend in research to track him down. What's his name again?
steven		Ernie Douglas.
rick		Ernie Douglas? Ernie Douglas? Why does that sound so familiar?
steven		 Did anyone notice I'm late?
joan		What are you talking about, you've been here for an hour.
steven		Thank you.
steven		Work's good.
robin		How's Hal?
steven		Don't get me started. That guy has no vision. It's like working for Mr. MaGoo. He's just worthless.
robin		It's just great that you're getting to do it. It's a real step up.
steven		I know. Now if only someone at corporate smartened up enough to dump Hal, then I could really get some stuff done.
hal		Don't worry. I didn't see it --- 'cause I have no vision.
steven		Chip! Chip, this isn't funny! Where are you?!!!
steven		Leave me alone! I have no job, no girlfriend, no family anymore! It's over! You won!
cable guy		 Oh no. It's not over. It's just gettin' started.
mark thompson		The jury has notified the judge that they are very close to reaching a verdict, and would like to keep deliberating into the evening hours.
researcher		There are five people named Ernie Douglas in this county. Two are African American. One is eighty-five years old. One is eleven years old, and the last one is in a wheelchair.
rick		So we're nowhere. Ernie Douglas? Ernie Douglas?
rick		Could you stop that?
researcher		Don't snap at me. I'm doing this as a favor.
rick		 Wait, could you start that again? Start tapping your foot again.
steven		Hello.
steven		Chip and Ernie Douglas.
rick		I've got a list of every cable installer fired in the last four years. Every one of these guys has the same physical description as our friend.  Murray Slaughter, Brendan Walsh, Sam Malone, Alex Reiger. There was even a guy who liked to be called 'the big Ragu.'
steven		Carmine from "Laverne and Shirley."
rick		That's so sad that you know that. Anyway, the cable company in town fired a guy six months ago named Darren Stevens. He stole the truck and disappeared. That's our guy.
steven		So he doesn't even work for the Cable Company?
cable guy		This man killed his own brother. Some people don't even have a brother...
cable guy		...do they Steven? Are you listening to me? Don't shut it off. Don't shut it --
rick		Why do you keep icing me man?
cable guy		You owe me!
cable guy		I just want to hang out. No big deal.
cable guy		Steven, you're just like me. We're cut from the same cloth. We're one and the same!
steven		 Oh my god. She's right. I am a smotherer. I'm just like him.
steven		Hello.
steven		Rick told me you were fired from The Cable Company. You're not even a real cable guy.
cable guy		Do you feel good now that you've hurt me? Well now I'm going to have to hurt you. I'm going to take away what you hold dearest in the world.
cable guy		Could you hold on a second, I've got call waiting. It'll just be a sec.
cable guy		Sorry about that. Where was I? Oh yeah. You're going to feel my wrath.
steven		 Don't do this. There must be some way for us to work this out.
cable guy		I wish there was.  Oh Steven, I'm just so tired. So very tired.
steven		Let's talk in person. Where are you?
cable guy		I'm close. So very close.
cable guy		You know, I don't think you're right for Robin. She needs someone who can be sensitive to her needs. Someone who understands her soul.
steven		You stay away from her.
cable guy		Aren't we the control freak. Looks like you're starting to sweat.
steven		I got the camera. You can't see me.
cable guy		Oh yeah? Then why are you picking your face?
cable guy		You're getting closer.
cable guy		Pity, such a nice CD rack. You know sometimes the answer is right under your nose.
rick		Hello.
steven		Hey Rick. I need to meet with you right away. I've got some information about this crazy cable guy.
rick		Me too. I've got the whole story.
steven		That's great. Let's meet at the old school at nine-thirty.
rick		Why all the way out there?
steven		I think he's been following me. Don't be late, buddy.
steven		Be home! Be home!
female neighboor		Go away! I remember you. You're her obsessive boyfriend. She said you might come here. I'm calling the police.
rick		Steven? Steven?
steven		Hey Rick. I'm really excited to hear what you found out about this nut.
rick		I hit the Holy Grail. This guy is deeply troubled. Only child. His mother was arrested for prostitution, and phone solicitation. Apparently she was some phone sex pioneer.
steven		No way.
rick		And get this, he was discharged from the Marines. He got mad at his Sergeant so he sent a weapons silo to Defcon Two using a Radio Shack computer. And that's not the half of it.
cable guy		Really? Tell me more.
cable guy		I'm very interested in learning everything I can about that wacked out cable installer.
cable guy		It sounds like he might hurt somebody.
steven		 Hello.
steven		Rick.
steven		 Rick Legatos. He's a friend of mine. Where is he?
steven		Can I see him?
doctor		Yes. But he can't speak. He's in shock.
steve		 Ring?
steven		Hello.
steven		You're not going to get away with this.
cable guy		The question is, are you going to get away with it? Apparently there was an anonymous tip placed to the police leading them to a staple gun at the crime scene with your fingerprints all over it.
robin		 All right, I'm ready.
cable guy		 Be right there.
steven		Was that Robin?
cable guy		 I've got to go. We're going to take a romantic stroll on the information superhighway.
officer		Hey, hold it!
cable guy		...it all started in Lansford, Pennsylvania where Panther Valley Television, with the assistance of Jerrod Electronics, created the first cable television system.
cable guy		The future is now. Soon every American home will integrate their television, phone, and computer. You'll be able to visit the Louvre on one channel, and watch female mud wrestling on another. You can do your shopping at home, or play a game of Mortal Kombat with a friend in Vietnam.
robin		This is really fascinating, but I really think we ought to go now.
cable guy		I knew you'd appreciate it. I took Steven here once, and he didn't give a rats ass about my interests.
robin		I'm worried about Steven.
cable guy		Maybe Steven should be worried about you.  So, where was I?
cable guy		 Ichabod Crane! The Disney Channel showed it all last month.
cable guy		 Let's get ready to ruuuuuummmmbbble!!!!
steven		Where's Robin?!
cable guy		This isn't about Robin, this is about you and me.
steven		Where's Robin?!!!
steven		Tell me!
cable guy		 I'm sorry, I didn't catch the question?
cable guy		Steven you've changed.  I like it.
cable guy		I think it's time to make you cable ready.
cable guy		Last time we fought I let you win! Best two out of three!
cable guy		 You treat me like the TV! You use me, but you can't live without me!
cable guy		You can't shut me off with your remote control!!!! I'm not like Robin and Rick and Mommy and Daddy and brother and sister and cousin --
steven		I got the point.
robin		 Steven.
robin		Help me Steven!
robin		Steven! Look out!
cable guy		 Yeah Steven. Look out!
cable guy		 I've missed you.
cable guy		 "Dry land is not a myth, I've seen it." Kevin Costner from Waterworld. I don't know what the fuss was about, the movie ruled, I saw it six times.
cable guy		Isn't it weird that we'vve wound up in this position?
cable guy		Who would have thunk it?
cable guy		 Steven. Hey, my lisp is gone.
cable guy		 You stupid son of a bitch.
robin		Steven!
steven		Hang on.
cable guy		 I know what your saying. Who does this guy think he is, Jason?
steven		Stay away from her!
cable guy		I saw that in Trapeze, starring Tony Curtis. He was just on "Life-styles of the Rich and Famous." He still looks terrific.
cable guy		And the race is on.
cable guy		 This is such an anti-climactic way to end this.
robin		I'm sorry I didn't believe you. I love you.
steven		I love you too. You're right. We shouldn't get married. I've got a lot of problems to work out which have absolutely nothing to do with you.
robin		We'll work them out together.
cable guy		 Oh yeah, I was trying to kill you.
cable guy		 It's a sleeper hold. Hulk Hogan used it on Sly Stallone in "Rocky Three." He should wake up in thirty seconds, so let's get going.
steven		Easy.
cable guy		It didn't have to be this way Steven. I'm just trying to show you the kind of things that can happen when you mistreat people.
steven		Don't do anything stupid.
cable guy		You know this is just like that secen in that Clint Eastwood movie "Dirty Harry" --
steven		 No! This is not like anything! This is not a movie! We're real people! You're hurting us! This is reality!
cable guy		If this is reality...  ...I am outta here.
steven		Nooo!
steven		You're not going anywhere.
steven		Don't do this. You just need help. We all get lonely.
cable guy		Yeah, but I get really lonely.  I mean, look at me.
steven		You're gonna be fine. Just come on up.
cable guy		 Steven, I think I sat too close to the television. Mommy was right.
cable guy		It's too late for me, but there's a lot of little Cable Boys out there who still have a chance. Say good-bye to the baby- sitter.
reporter		This is the moment America has been waiting for. We've just been told the jury is ready to render their decision.
court clerk		By unanimous vote the defendant Sam Sweet...
court clerk		...has been found --
cable guy		Damn, that hurt like a mother. What the hell was I thinking?  Oh man, that stings.
cable guy		A little help here!
steven		Is he going to be all right?
paramedic		I don't know. It's in God's hands.
paramedic		Hang in there buddy. Stay with me. Just stay with me.
cable guy		Am I really your buddy?
****Dialogues from script :Candle_to_Water.txt****

brooke vo		 There's never been anyone like you, since you. I love you Vaughn. I love you like no-one else ever has, or could. I'm not going to try to persuade you. Just follow your heart. OK?
vaughn		I don't know. I mean I want you, I want to be with you. You know that. It's just . . .
vaughn		Can you . . . just give me twenty four hours  OK?
brooke os		 Are you lost? You sound lost.
vaughn		Thought I'd try a new way home. Beat the traffic, you know.
brooke os		 A little girl fell in love with a little boy. Still falling over here!
vaughn		OK  I'll call you, babe. OK?
satnav voice		In point two of a mile, keep right . . .
brooke		 I love you Vaughn. Once upon a time.
vaughn		I love you too. I gotta. . . I'll call you  OK. Bye baby.
brooke os		 Another call. Is it her?
vaughn		 Yes.
brooke os		 I guess you better take it.
vaughn		I have to go. I'll call you. . .
brooke os		 I know. I figured.
vaughn		What does that mean? Look you know how it is. I'll see you very soon. Always  OK? Ciao baby.
vaughn		Mia. Hi honey.
mia os		 Mia? Who's she? It's late. Pip wants a goodnight kiss. Where are you? Vaughn?
pip		Daddy!
brook vo		Once upon a time.
vaughn		OK. See you later.
mia		Pip - you helping me or what?
mia		 Any more takers?
mia		Wrong time of the month?
mia		Don't worry. Seriously.
mia		 You out later then darling?
vaughn		Yeah. Probably. I don't know.
brook vo		Just follow your heart. OK?
pip		But why not? Daddy said we could. Daddy?
vaughn		I'm not sure sweetheart.
brook vo		 You promised.
mia		Daddy's not feeling too well, darling. I'm sure a swim will do us all good.
pip		Daddy? Please? Mia said you'd. . .
mia		Mummy. It's mummy! Who's Mia!?
pip		Mamma Mia!
pip		But why can't daddy come?
mia		Come on. Milkshakes later!
mia		I've given you every last atom.
brooke		Vaughn Black. Will you come out and play?
brooke		Thank you.
brooke		Beer, water or tea? The world's your oyster.
vaughn		How long have you been here?
vaughn		White, one sugar. Thank you.
brooke		My lord.
brooke		What you did . . . I mean I appreciate what you've done for me  for us. All I can tell you is that it will be worth it. We're meant to be together, V. You've always said that.
vaughn		Come on. You don't owe me anything. I made a choice.
brooke		I've been waiting to show you.
vaughn		My God, Brooke. It's . . .
vaughn		You're telling me I stink. Mea culpa!
brooke		No!
vaughn		I'll take a shower.
brooke		I'll show you. Might even watch you. A man in my shower. The little boy a little girl fell in love with. Once upon a time.
vaughn		 He's still in there somewhere.
brooke		And now . . .
brooke		 I'm so sorry.
vaughn		 Don't be daft. I'm sorry. It's. . .
brooke		You don't need to be. Take your time.
vaughn		An accident? You didn't tell me.
vaughn		All in good time  OK?
brooke		We have forever. Oh my love.
brooke		We have forever. Promise?
brooke		Good day, bad day . . ?
brooke		Got something for you lover-boy.
vaughn		Thank you.
brooke		So now you've got everything you need here. So now . . .
vaughn		Brooke, look. . .
brooke		Brooke? You never call me that.
vaughn		My love.
vaughn		What happened?
brooke		What happened?
brooke		What happened?
vaughn		 Pip's with mum?
vaughn		How is she?
mia		Don't start, Vaughn. What kind of a fucking stupid question is that? How's my daughter now that I've walked out on her and her mother and run into the arms of my childhood sweetheart?
mia		Jesus  the false caller IDs on your phone. `Office'? I mean please. And remember eye contact? You should try private browsing or at least clear your history every now and again. For someone who's in fucking IT . . . So what now? You want some clothes, your tool box, the toaster: a divorce?
mia		Have them all. On the house.
mia		What am I supposed to do now, bastard: tell me, tell me, tell. . .
satnav voice		In point two of a mile, keep right . . .
vaughn		Babe?  Brooke?
brooke		Boo!
brooke		What's wrong?
brooke		Blimey  someone lost their sense of humour.
brooke		I thought you'd be pleased for me. I got a job!
vaughn		That's brilliant. When?
brooke		Start on Monday. It'll be good for us  we can be DINKYs.
vaughn		It's great  really.
brooke		You're hungry. Thirsty? Let me get you a drink. Drink for my king. Then maybe . . .
vaughn		Tell me! For God sake . . .
vaughn		Who did this to you?
brooke		Does it matter? He was jealous. He's everything you're not. Vaughn? You love me. Baby? You don't need to fear him. They're just scars. Oh God, no. Vaughn? They're just scars for God sake. This is my body!
brooke		Can you see properly? Can you?  Do you like them?
brooke		Smart question Vaughn, smart.
brooke		Love me.
brooke		Love me!
brooke		Love me, bastard! COWARD!
brooke		It doesn't matter.  Go back to her. Go back to mama. It's where you belong.
brooke		Go forever. Now.
dolores		. . .though normally there's a charge for that.
cy		Of course there is.
dolores		There you go.
dolores		 OK.
dolores		Here he is now.  Mo?
dolores		Mo? Mo  could you please just see Mister Caudwell out? He just needs to pick something up.
mo		No sweat Doll.
dolores		Dolores! How many more times?
mo		No worries Doll.
dolores		Sorry mister Caudwell. Mo here will see you out. I have to . . .
cy		OK  thanks.
cy		Thanks.
mo		No sweat.
mo		Wow  that's an old VHS isn't it?
cy		It is indeed. Are we done?
mo		Ain't seen one of those for years. Never used one.
cy		Really.
mo		Wait  I gotta sign you out man. Paperwork. You got the forms?
mo		Sir? You're a knight? The queen dub you or something? If I don't call you sir that doesn't mean I don't respect. It just means I don't call you sir.
cy		Fine. It doesn't really matter. Sorry.
mo		Wait  you're that director.
cy		Can we please just finish up and go. I'm late.
mo		Seriously  I know you. I'm an actor. We met once. Maybe . . .
cy		You've got the wrong man.
mo		No seriously. We met at an audition. You auditioned me.
mo		You must remember. I'm not doing this forever. Got plans to do things. Get my CV together. You must remember.
cy		Like I said . . .
cy		The fuck do you think you're doing?
mo		Take it easy. I'm only asking.
cy		How the hell do we . . .
cy		What the hell are you doing?
mo		Come on man  just a j-peg to let my buddies know I saw you. I photograph everything. Got gigs of shit at home. But you you're the man who directed. . .
cy		A sign or two might help.
mo		Exit? It's cool. Listen we won't do the . . . But slow down: you must remember me. You're  that's it: name begins with C. . .
cy		OK. What the fuck is the matter with all this? I've got my thing, now I just want to get out of here. Let's sign the papers and I can't quite believe there are papers  and I'm done. Clear?
mo		Clear. So what's on the  video?
cy		Jesus. Mind my business is on the video. Is that all right?
mo		It's fine, bro; but hostility ain't working. Not in here.
mo		It was that show - that play you were directing. Silver something. Shit. Four, five years back. Come on, man  you must remember.
cy		OK. I remember. So can we go now?
mo		Sure, but look: what's with all the storage. You moving house or something?
cy		Something like that. Look: show me the way out of here now, man, or I'll have to speak to your supervisor. What was her name? Dorothy?
mo		Shit no: Doll's just admin. Works up in the box.
mo		Dolls in the doll house, doing doll things. Bless.
mo		Whoa. Relax Mister C. Out is way. OK?
mo		Look I don't want you to mind me talking to you and all. I'm just being friendly: one pro to another.  Come on man. Don't go believing this is my shit, because it ain't. Acting's my shit just like directing's yours. I was born to it  know what I mean? I knew you'd remember. Cy that's it! Cy. Mo.
mo		Well that's better. No need for hostility between pros.
cy		 How hard can this be?
mo		 Pros or ho's  know what I'm saying.
mo		What's on the video? None of my biz, I know; but I'm curious.
mo		Yup. Got the old bit.  Ain't you got one online? Mine's online.
cy		Right. Get us the fuck out of here or I'm going to . . .
mo		Look sorry about that dude, but you need to let me know. That's my simple question: what happened.
cy		What happened?
mo		The audition. I didn't get the job.
mo		 Seriously. The Silver thing.
cy		Look I don't know. Actors we would have seen dozens. I mean it was a long time ago. I don't know what you mean `what happened'.
cy		If you didn't get it, you didn't get it. It's the -  - it's the way of the world, no?
cy		This is ridiculous.
mo		I know how good you are.
mo		I know your true potential. I know your talent doesn't belong packed up in here. Your greatness. And you've failed.
cy		What are you doing?
mo		You don't think I know how you 
cy		 What the fuck business is it . . . If I held an audition you failed four or five years ago I'm sorry. If you're working in here not up in lights, I'm sorry.
mo		You're sorry for yourself. That's in your face.
cy		This is fucking absurd.  Criminal damage. Threatening behaviour.
mo		Cy  we're done here, seriously. Then I'll sign you out. You can ask about the mobile phone you dropped; but I doubt you can claim it on us. Just tell me why you're all stored up in here. Then . . .
cy		Mo, isn't it? What does that mean  `Mo'? In any event I can promise you repercussions. I don't care what you think of me. I won't be treated like this.
mo		Brave Mister Caudwell. Genius. Solid citizen I don't think. Just need to know what you're doing. Then that's the end of it all.
cy		My landlord asked me to move out.
mo		Couldn't pay your rent. Why don't you just say that. I couldn't pay my rent, Mo. That's fine. It's called la crunch du credit. And here we are.
mo		We're almost, nearly, seriously out of here, Mister Caudwell.
mo		On timers  saves power. You must know. Auto-ma-tic.
mo		Time to go home, Cy. My only ask is this. And you don't have to say yes, say anything. All I ask is we do it again.
mo		 I know. I know it sounds strange. Bit silly even. But if you just let me run the thing again, this time I'll nail it  swear.
mo		 I mean. On a fucking VHS video cassette. Where's Noah when you need him?
mo		Let's run this again from the top, Cy.
cy		You'll go down for this. I absolutely swear. I'll report this to the police, your superiors. This is fucking . . .
cy		You think you can actually DO THIS?! What the fuck. . .
cy		What the fuck, sunshine. Equity subscriptions lapsing are they?
mo		Cy, seriously, man who directed nothing: let's just get this right. Then we can get on with things. You can go back your self-loathing and I can continue my rounds.
cy		What!? Screw you.  FUCK YOU!
cy		What the fuck is the matter with you? Jesus Christ!
mo		Jesus not in here, bro. Christ a nipple sucked by mugs. One born every minute, tick tock.
mo		OK. So what's the brief?
cy		What?
mo		What's the scenario? Set the scene for me. Point me in the right direction. Even Brando needed goalposts.
cy		Help. HELP!
mo		That's it old fella. Get sorted out. In and out. Let it all be cool.
cy		You'll be missed.
mo		Well not really Mister De Mille. It's just me and Doll today. Cutbacks. Don't ya love them?
mo		Set me straight, mister director!
mo		The director's chair.
cy		What the fuck do you want?
mo		You know what I want. Just like you: another chance. Audition me again, you fucking VHS crumb. Give me my brief. Motivation, reality  the whole bit. Go.
cy		Do what you want, wanker.
cy		You'll do time. Fucking acting. You'll go down. I'll see to it. Think you can fucking do this.
mo		Again. The scenario, please Cy. Who am I? What do I want?
cy		OK crackerjack. Let's play. You're a fucked up wannabe actor who never was and never will be who works as a security guard in a domestic storage depot. Like most people you can't handle rejection, but I mean you really can't handle it really I mean. It's just . . .
mo		Good dog. Now. . .
mo		That wasn't the character I read for, the last one I mean. My agent told me a soccer player who is afraid to tell his team- mates of his homosexuality. He turns to his manager for help, for answers to his dilemma; but in the face of this, of this outrage, the manager who has been like a surrogate father to him for years now turns against him, disgusted that the boy he believed in turned out to be a lamentable sausage jockey. Am I right?
mo		I'm right, man. That was the scenario wasn't it. The Silver thing I auditioned for that you turned me down for. Wrong. Ignored me for. Like the loser I was. Wrong. The winner is here. In front of you. So. . .
mo		Make like a camera.
mo		Noises.
mo		Without a script this time, note. Ad-libbing, free wheeling improvisazione, herr director!
mo		Cy. Director. Really.
mo		So, how was I? How was it?
cy		You did it. You got the job.
mo		LIAR!
dolores		Cuppa, Mo? Mo?
jaden vo		 Aight  am done runnin'. Do what ya gotta do.
jaden		What the fuck, my fam . . .
austen		No way! Fuck off now, brah!
austen		Fuck that. Gimme . . !
jaden		Don't be doin' that fam. It's all wrong. You ain't black yet.
austen		Yeah? Well ain't you my brah.
jaden		I am your brah. No force gonna make me otherwise. Homework.
austen		Fuck the homework. Fuck school. . .
jaden		Fuck ya future. Smart.
austen		Yeah well.
jaden		Yeah well. It all goes on the  tab, right. Save it up for a rainy one. Then I get mine, right? Well I got mine, brah, an' you don't never want it  swear.
austen		Gonna get my own, white boy. See.
jaden		Home fuckin' work. Now!
austen os		You ain't my dad, fam. My dad ain't my dad.
jaden		 Where you at fam? Nah. Nah. My brah  comin' atcha somewhere near? Yeah. See him? When? Owe ya back, boy. Easy now.
paul		. . . for this gift of daily bread we thank thee oh Lord. . .
paul		. . . and for the gift of these fine sons I thank thee oh Lord. . .
paul		. . . beseech thee to look down on them and protect them with thy everlasting mercy . . .
jaden		Fuck.
jaden		? No one messes with my stash  no matter who  hear? Ain't no brah of mine gonna sink to stealing and dealin' like some stinkin' hood rat skunk jus' to prove his manhood  readin'? I's fuckin' me and you got destiny, swear. Don't look to me. Don't like me. Don't follow me, don't run from me, don't watch me: just get wiv' the school shit and grow up like the old man wants  hear?
jaden		Keep it. Buy books  study: something. Buy the old man a prezzie. If you ever do it again. . .
jaden		 Goin' out dad  OK?
jaden		 Aight  am done runnin'. Do what ya gotta do.
jaden		Shut the fuck . . .
paul		. . . for this gift of daily bread we thank thee oh Lord. . .
austen		Five oh everywhere. Wot's poppin?
jaden		Police. They're called police.
austen		Bacon fryin' for breakfast.
austen		Wot's poppin with the pussy, fam?
jaden		Jesus fucking Christ. You mean how's the young lady in your life, my blood? Since when the fuck you become some kind of born again reggin?
austen		I wonder if you should mind you language in front of your baby brah, blood.
jaden		I say blood, you say blood. I say brah, you say brah. I say. . .
austen		Potato, potarto, tomato, tomarto.
austen		And?
jaden		Brah? You turn into me and I'll kill you - hear?
linden		Go fuckin' my brah's enemy, ho. My blood's white white enemy. For you he's dead. Fuckin' . . .
cop		 I don't want you to feel pressured, Austen. You haven't done anything, so relax.
jaden		Why you fuckin' grass me up. Though you was my brah.
austen		I didn't tell the pigs. Just  . . . just Hugo up school.
austen		Told because I was proud of ya brah. Massive proud.
austen		Couldn't help it.
austen		What the pigs gonna do with ya?
jaden		Where the fuck . . ?
austen		Only way you're gonna stop me turning into you is by killing me, brah. Long one short.
austen		Say what brah? Too much . . .
jaden		 Said go home. Fix dad's tea. I'll be there soon as. OK?
austen vo		 Only way you're gonna stop me turning into you is by killing me, brah.
jaden		Got a better idea, baby blood.
wife		Won't be long.
uri vo		But now the buck must stop. Exculpation is no longer an option. The state has lied to you, Mrs Pentane, and whatever the consequences, I feel it my duty to put the record straight. Why I feel thus obliged will become apparent should we meet. I leave that up to you.
uri		 If we're kindly ready, Mister Tyne.
uri		 Nicholas it's really so very simple.
uri		Alright, alright  thank you Mister Karaczun. This is . . .
boothy		Has the next of kin been informed?
silk		Not yet sir.
boothy		 There's never a good time.
silk		Yes sir.
uri		Our intelligence . . .
boothy		As the board understood it, the prisoner was verified as the jihadi. There was DNA. . .
uri		We now believe the evidenced might have been contaminated.
boothy		 Was there any form of extraction?
uri		The suspect revealed nothing of the activities of which he was suspected by the board, sir.
parker		Fruit was not born.
uri		It was a fruitless interrogation, sir - yes.
boothy		So not only do we have no further intel about the event, we have another next of kin, a nuclear bloody winter of media fallout and the inevitable Whitehall storm. We also have another body to . . .
parker		Liquidate, sir?
boothy		 Stimuli? The usual . . .
uri		We explored the usual routes in accordance with our mandate.
silk		 Perhaps he told you nothing because he knew nothing.
uri		That's likely, yes.
boothy		Likely? Christ! This is the kind of thing the media gorges on for months! We can't . . .
uri		Nicholas Pentane died while engaged in activities commensal with his profession as a freelance reporter from wounds sustained at the hands of insurgent personnel. He died behind enemy lines. He was transported home in a manner befitting a hero. He died while attempting to maintain the integrity and vibrancy of a free press  a press we all. . .
boothy		Spare me the party line, Uri, for God sake! This'll wiki itself sky high unless . . .
uri		It's taken care of, sir.
boothy		We're getting off-message here.
parker		Mission creep.
boothy		What we're here to establish is how a freelance writer get's wrongly arrested, subjected to  He was as innocent as any of us. Any answers, Uri?
uri		Mistakes, happen, sir.
boothy		The man wrote a column for the Economist, for God sake!
uri		The best moles have the best covers, sir. They simply always do.
boothy		What we also need to establish is whether he was killed deliberately, or by . . .
parker		Misadventure, sir?
uri		The human body can only take so much, sir. Subjected to a certain level of pressure it buckles. Nicholas Pentane's body simply broke under duress.
silk		The mind-body continuum.
uri		The mind-body continuum.
boothy		So what was going on between the fourth and the seventh?
uri		I was on holiday, sir.
silk		Ah. Anywhere nice?
uri		Malaga again, sir. My wife does like it there.
boothy		Well not a bad choice at that time of year. We recommended that to do didn't we?
uri		You did, sir, yes. Your wife actually sent us the brochure if you recall.
elle		Hello.  Yes.
boothy vo		We actually tried Corfu this year. Not bad  though it could have been warmer.
silk vo		I can actually recommend Crete at this time of year. A bit populous, but there are places where one can escape the hordes.
boothy		Oh Lord, Michael; if we left it to you we'll all be holidaying on the Norfolk Broads!
boothy		What we're left with is something of a mess. I'm sure you agree.
uri		Sorry sir I don't suppose we could get some . . . I'm . . .
boothy		 And some biscuits. The usual. Actually if there are any chocolate digestives.
sharon os		 Certainly sir.
uri		My desire to meet with you arises from a strong urge to inform you of the circumstances under which your husband actually passed away. The fact is, Mrs Pentane, that you have certainly been misinformed.
boothy		Thanks Sharon.
parker		 Never can resist the bloody things.
boothy		 Make yourself at home, minister.
uri		Bloody hell!
elle		Yes?
elle		Hello?
uri		Mrs Pentane? It's Uri Tallow from the ministry. We spoke earlier?
elle		Ah  yes. Come in.
uri		Mrs Pentane very good of you to see me like this.
elle		Come in Mister Tallow.
uri		It's amazing. Such talent. Me . . .
elle		Can I get you anything?
uri		No  really I'm fine. Thank you.
uri		Such platitudes! Here we are trapped inside a Terrence Rattigan three act . . .
uri		Mrs Pentane. A delicate subject of course. Your husband.
uri		Good, old fashioned paper. Nothing like it.
uri		Firstly I'm so very sorry for your loss. I know the ministry has informed you that your husband  Mr Nicholas . . .
uri		Misses Pentane the fact is that . . .
uri		The truth is Misses Pentane that . . . I'm here to tell you that . . . Well this may not be what you want to hear but . . .
elle		 If you'd kindly hurry. Please.
uri		Misses Pentane I . . .
uri		Misses Pentane . . .
elle		Oh for God sake!
uri		The fact is that your husband did not die in the manner in which you have been told he died. As I alluded in my letter, my email. . .
elle		I can't do this now. I'm sorry.
uri		Misses Pentane please hear me. 
elle		You need to get the hell away from me. Sorry, but. . .
uri		Misses Pentane the fact is that your husband was subjected to rendition. Not as you may have heard of it but in a form. . .
uri		Whilst in this instance your husband wasn't transported abroad because of logistics.
elle		 Logistics?
uri		He was subjected here, in the United Kingdom to a process designed to get him to confess.
boothy		What we need to establish, Uri, is whether, having found out 
uri		He was no longer any use. By that stage his body was, his mind. . .He would never have been able to lead an ordinary life: work, have relationships.
boothy		So you did the judicious thing and disposed of the suspect accordingly?
uri		Your husband was tortured, Misses Pentane.
uri		These are measures taken occasionally and in conditions of the utmost secrecy against certain suspects accused of terrorism  I'm sure you're aware.
elle		DON'T TOUCH ME!
uri		This isn't exactly what I came here to tell you, Misses . . . Not entirely. . .
uri		What I came here to tell you today that it was me. I oversaw the torture and tortured your husband. It was under my ministrations . . .
uri		It was me, you see. I killed him. An accident. Only so much.
uri		I know this is a lot to take in, Misses Pentane.
elle		What are you?
elle		I'm calling the police.
uri		That won't help much today.
elle		Fucker! GET THE FUCK OUT!
elle		What do you want from me?
uri		I want. I want. . .
uri		Wait. Wait please.
uri		OK.
elle		Piece of shit-mould. Get out. . .
elle		This is what you fucking want? Fuck. . . Oh Jesus. . .
uri		Yes .
elle		Piece of dogshit . . .
uri		Misses Pentane . . . the exertion. Please . . .
elle		What?  WHAT?
uri		I relieved him of his pain.
elle		Am I expected to admire . . . Leave me alone.
uri		It's OK. I don't want you to be . . . I'll make up a story. Don't worry.  I do as I'm told, actually. Sometimes . . .
elle		Get out.
uri		Don't worry. Mum's the word, Mrs Pentane. I'll take care of everything. Everything. I promise. . .
ad vo		. . .not that you'll be needing one now that your house assurance is on the house. Cheers!
marlow vo		My sense of it is, Christie, as I've said, and the reason I feel I failed, really, is that the state must find a way to take responsibility.
marlow vo		Well I don't know about that. But yes, I'm looking to move out of the legal profession now.
marlow		I know. But look. For me it's this: we send her out to Afghanistan. We tell her to kill people who resisted our invasion. 
marlow vo		I understand. I understand that when you sign up, you take your chances. You become an organ of the state, and if that state tells you to kill people in its name, it chooses not to call that murder. It chooses then to call you a hero  especially if you die.
marlow vo		Nation states have always protected themselves from their own imperial absurdities. What would be left if there was no chance of glory? Why would anyone sign up? Look: in war, anywhere, people do what they can to survive. All I can say is that personally, I mean as Shona's brief, I failed to make the court see sense. For me, you know, it's like you can murder in the so called defence of the state but if you kill in the defence of yourself . . .You know it's like, I mean as Shakespeare said `if his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us.'
caleb		What the fuck  easy-peasy, ho!
caleb		A bitch. I been had by a bitch!  Stand, bitch.
caleb		Well shocky-shocky-shock. Wasn't expecting quite such a welcome.
caleb		What the fuck.
caleb		It's Christmas, ho, ho, ho . . .
caleb		Way  ho. Choice. Smile for the camera. You got names?
caleb		All fucked up now ain't ya, babe. Who did this to ya?
caleb		Notable: Lara fuckety Croft.
caleb		 Well shit, bitch: ain't you the self-same night owl. Name. I said what's your fuckin' name?
caleb		Well ain't you the pocket battleship. We gonna have another swingers, you an' me? Don't think so, bitch. Think you an' me we gonna have chats, get under each other's skinny, maybe get some cosy. Howzat.
caleb		OK. Let's play the you-kneeling -on-the-floor-now game. I liked you down there.  Yesterday, bitch.
caleb		Now we got some kind of understanding. Some kind of parity goin' down. Name, ho.
caleb		Well well. Now I'm more than 
caleb		Well that explains. A bona fide fuckin hero. Heroine. Which makes me wonder, actually: where's your stash? The gear?
caleb		Don't make me spell it out. You know why we in `ere `aving this.
caleb		DON'T PLAY ME, BITCH. Where's your fuckin' gear. Everybody got gear round this green and pleasant land.
caleb		What the fuck. You the only bitch I picked in this whole postie with no gear? Fuck. Trust Caleb to pick a soldier.
caleb		You got that uniform still? I like a woman in uniform.
caleb		How come you so hot, babes? You leave the central heating on all night to keep you snuggles? Nothing like a man for that.
caleb		Hey  what you lookin' at? Look at me. At me eyes, ho.
caleb		I said look at me you fuckin' . . .
caleb		You know what I am  huh? You know what I am, really?  Wot you gonna give Caleb tweet  apart from laters?
caleb		Hey    no: none of that. You stay front   and fucking centre. On the ball.   Keep your soldier eyes on me   no matter what. Hear me?
caleb		That's better, soldier soldier. Now don't be going for no walkies  `kay?
caleb		Not a muscle, ho. You stay like a good doggie  period.
caleb		Not a move, babes. I'm watching.  Where you keep the cake, ho? Me and Victoria sponge, we're tight as a schoolgirl's twat.
caleb		 And I thought I was fucked up. What they do to you out there, babes? Turn you into a raghead?
caleb		Hey  fuck, bitch. Hey!
caleb		Come here you fuckin' slag . . .
caleb		Fucking slippery bitch! SHIT!
caleb		You stupid fucking slut! Jesus!
shona		Do it.
caleb		She speaks.
shona		Go for it. Serious.
caleb		What the fuck? No one smiles at Caleb.
caleb		Stop.  D-O-N-T. I said. . .
caleb		 Stop. Fucking don't smile. `Kay?
caleb		Your choice, bitch.
shona		Wrong.
caleb		Solider girl needs a hospital.
caleb		So what's with all the shit?  If you just knew what Caleb has done. Bad things, babes, worse than bad. Then you'd be scared, trust.
shona		What do you want?
caleb		What you think I fuckin' want? A teensy weensy respect would be nice. Failing that, this sarnie is really rather nice, ta.
shona		 I need a doctor.
caleb		She needs a doctor. Well you might yet, babes. We not done partying yet. Then maybe you need a doctor. First. . .
caleb		First I'm going to see what's what . Ain't never done black, but there's always a first time  no? Say there's no goin' back. That right?
caleb		You wan' it first, or you wanna sit tight while I go foray, then we get acquainted?
caleb		Oh for fuck's sake.
caleb		Get fixed up, babes, I ain't got all night.
caleb		She swallows. He knew she would.
shona		You have to go now.
caleb		Fuckin' what?  can wait.
caleb		Babes  come on. We can be fuck buddies or whatever.
shona		Friends with benefits. Yeah.
caleb		Friends with benefits. Gotcha. You watch all the right shows. No strings, no comebacks. So the things is: however we do it, Caleb's getting' horny, so . . .
caleb		Slow and steady wins the race, babes. We take it easy steps. That's right  beautiful. . .
shona		Get the fuck out of my house.
caleb		Say what?
caleb		An' me been so fuckin' la-de- dah with ya, and now this. Do what Caleb says, bitch, an' do it NOW . . .
caleb		Sit the fuck . . .
shona		Stop! Please . . .
****Dialogues from script :Capote.txt****

written by		 Dan Futterman
truman		So Jimmy Baldwin tells me the plot of his book, and he says to me: the writing's going well, but I just want to make sure it's not one of those problem novels. I said: Jimmy, your novel's about a Negro homosexual who's in love with a Jew -- wouldn't you call that a problem?
christopher		Susan's father had a minor heart attack, so she's writing more erotic poems about death and sex.
barbara		It's so tiresome.
williams		Hmm. What rhymes with angina?
grayson		How's your writing?
truman		Oh, I've got a million ideas of what to write next -- I just have to choose one.
grayson		Really?
truman		No.
barbara		Who would I want to play me? Natalie Wood.
rose		Too fat.
barbara		Audrey Hepburn?
rose		Not bad. Sort of middle-class.
truman		When a movie is made of my life I know exactly who I want as me...  Marilyn Monroe.
truman		...never had anything like this happen to them before. They're used to sleeping at night with the doors unlatched....  Yes, we should buy stock in Master Locks -- all of Kansas will be in the hardware store tomorrow.
truman		They have no idea who the killer is. But it doesn't matter who the killer is -- what matters is who the townspeople imagine the killer is. That's what I want to write about.
truman		I'm gonna need some help... I'm thinking about Nelle -- she can protect me...
truman		I want to leave tonight...
nelle		I figured you'd missed it.
truman		God I'm glad you agreed to come. You're the only one I know with the qualifications to be both a research assistant and personal bodyguard.  Oh, Nelle, you poor thing.
nelle		Off. Truman. Off.  I'm happy to see you too, but I can still whip your behind.
truman		That one up there and that one on the floor.
nelle		What all did you bring?
truman		You're sweet.
truman		Thank you. You're very kind.
nelle		You're pathetic.
nelle		You're pathetic.
truman		What?
nelle		You paid them to say that.
nelle		You paid them to say that!
truman		 How'd you know? How did you know?!
nelle		"Just when you think they've gotten as good as they can get."
truman		You think that was too much?  I thought that was a good line.
nelle		Pathetic.
truman		Alvin Dewey, Kansas Bureau of Investigation. KBI.
truman		Mr. Alvin Dewey, please.
guard		Third floor. In what used to be the Sheriff's Office.
church		The wife said no more smoking in the house. I told her, "Fine. Walter's got a couch upstairs in his apartment. I'll stay with him and Dorothy till we're done here."  I've got my bag and a carton of cigarettes in the car.
dewey		Roy.
truman		Mr. Dewey. Truman Capote from the New Yorker.
truman		Hello.
truman		Bergdorf's.
nye		Sorry?
truman		The scarf.
nye		Oh.  Nice.
truman		Thank you.  I wonder when we could arrange an interview? Some time to talk.
dewey		About what?
truman		We're not looking for any inside information -- I don't care one way or another if you catch whoever did this -- I'm writing an article not about the Clutter killings, but how they're affecting the town, how you all are bearing up --
dewey		I care.
truman		Excuse me?
dewey		I care.  I care a great deal if we catch whoever did this.
truman		Yes --
dewey		As do a lot of folks around here.
truman		Of course.
nye		 New Yorker?
church		You have press credentials?
nye		What's the New Yorker?
church		Magazine.
truman		Magazines don't give out --
church		You can come to the news conference with the rest of them.  Sears and Roebuck.
dewey		I'll talk facts but I won't speculate. The main fact here we need to be clear on is not one, but four people were killed. A lot of folks say Herb Clutter had to be the main target because he was dealt with the most brutally --
dewey		 Yes. We'd all like to know why. But it could've been any one of the family they were after. We just don't know --
dewey		Wounds indicate a shotgun, close- range, but no casings were found.
dewey		Right.
dewey		No. Nancy in the back of the head.
dewey		No.
dewey		Kenyon's radio seems to be the only...
dewey		Fifteen. Nancy was sixteen.
dewey		Laura Kinney.
dewey		I assume you're okay with the Laura part. K-I-N-N-E-Y. But, please, leave her be.
old man		There's talk of a bunch of Mexicans, a whole bunch of Mexicans...
dewey		 Thank you all for coming.
truman		Mr. Dewey's protective of the Clutters. I wonder how well he knew them...
truman		He was foxy with that old man.  Are you ever gonna let me drive?
nelle		Truman, you're a menace. You can barely see over the wheel.
nelle		This make you miss Alabama?
truman		 Not even a little bit.
truman		Hello.
nelle		Morning.
nelle		Can any of you tell me where I'd find Laura Kinney?
nelle		 Is that her? With the tall boy?
nelle		Danny Burke?  Thank you.
nelle		Truman. Truman --
nelle		These folks live their lives in a particular way. You need to consider adapting yourself to that fact.
truman		What --
nelle		-- I'm gonna find out where those two kids live. Maybe you'll let me do that alone?
truman		You hate my friends.
jack		I wouldn't say hate. So long as they don't knock on my door.
truman		I saw the bodies today.
jack		Which?
truman		The Clutters. I looked inside the coffins.
jack		That's horrifying.
truman		It comforts me -- something so horrifying it's freeing. It's a relief. Normal life falls away.  But, then, I was never much for normal life --
jack		No, you weren't.
truman		People here won't talk to me. They want someone like you, like Nelle. Me they hate.
jack		I can't think of a single quality I share with Nelle.
truman		Well --
jack		Maybe manliness.
truman		My point exactly.
jack		It's why I left the Midwest in the first place. I knew I could only find someone like you in New York City.
nelle		Let's go.
nelle		Danny?  Would you mind terribly if I walked with you for a bit?
laura		I thought you were from the FBI with your long coat.
truman		Is that so?
laura		That's why I ran off.
truman		I've been getting a lot of that lately.
laura		It's fine talking to you all. Practically nobody around here wants to talk since what happened.
nelle		Folks have been through a rough patch. Including you.  Nancy was your best friend.
laura		She was my best friend.
nelle		How has Danny been?
laura		Pretty shattered. Nothing terrible ever happened to him before. Nancy just started wearing his ring again after this huge fight -- Mr. Clutter was trying to get her to end it 'cause Danny's Catholic.
nelle		What were the Clutters?
laura		Methodist. Danny was the last person at the house that night. That's why Mr. Dewey's keeps interviewing him -- they don't think he had anything to do with it -- just to see if he remembers anything unusual and all.
nelle		People in town seem to wonder if he was involved.
laura		That's been real hard for Danny.
truman		Oh, it's the hardest -- when people have a notion about you and it's impossible to convince them otherwise. Since I was a child folks have thought they had me pegged because of the way I look and the way I talk. They're always wrong.  Do you know what I mean?
laura		I want to show you something.
truman		Not one person here understands her.
laura		Maybe you'll get a better picture of Nancy. And the family.
nelle		What is this?
laura		It's her diary.
nelle		"Danny here tonight and we watched TV. So nice just having him sit with us. Left at eleven. P.S. -- He's the only one I really love."
nelle		And that was that.
truman		The end of a life.
nelle		"Shattered."
truman		"Pretty shattered. Nothing terrible ever happened to him before. "
truman		I have 94 percent recall of all conversations.
nelle		94 percent.
truman		I've tested myself.
nelle		 I hate that you're better than me at this.
nelle		Don't you dare close your eyes on my bed.
nelle		Stand up and walk out that door. Go to your room if you're gonna sleep. Truman. Truman.
nelle		Crap.
nelle		What right do you have being tired? You were snoring blissfully --
truman		I don't snore --
nelle		-- while I lay there, hating you --
truman		You don't hate me.
nelle		Not much.  Marie Dewey?... We've got somewhere to go for Thanksgiving supper.
truman		Apparently Detective Foxy's wife has a better opinion of me than Detective Foxy.
marie		You came.
nelle		Hi.
truman		 Thank you for having us.
marie		 Alvin! Get your pants on. They're here.
truman		More. More.
marie		Alvin will hate this.
truman		Yes, but we who know the truth will love it.
marie		 I cannot believe you're from New Orleans. I miss it so much.
truman		I only lived there for a short while but my Mama was born and bred.
marie		You know something -- Alvin pretends he doesn't know who you are, but the minute you came to town he read your books. He had one of his men pick up "Breakfast at Tiffany's" in Kansas City 'cause it's banned from the library here.
truman		What did Mr. Dewey think?
marie		He liked it more than he's willing to admit.
truman		How very foxy.
truman		Mama would've put in half the bottle by now.
marie		Alright, one more shake.
truman		Hello.
nelle		Hi.
marie		How you doing, foxy?
truman		I was writing the script as they were filming, all that time in Italy. I'd work like mad all day long and then dash down to the bar around midnight to hand in the next day's scenes. Humphrey had just about moved into the hotel bar --
marie		 Humphrey Bogart.
truman		-- where he and John drank every night --
marie		 John Huston.
truman		-- and I mean drank, like famished water buffaloes. Well -- I'd only just handed them the final scene when the bellhop told me I had a phone call. It was my stepfather, Joe Capote, calling to say that my mother had died. I flew home to New York -- terribly distraught -- but when I got to the apartment I could see that Joe was in even worse shape than I was. He grabbed my hands and sat me down at the kitchen table, and he said to me, "Talk. Talk about anything, any subject in the world. Don't worry whether it will interest me or not. Just talk so I won't break down." And I did. He couldn't bear to be alone with his thoughts. It was too painful.
marie		It's been a hard couple weeks for Alvin. He and Herb Clutter were good friends. From church.
dewey		Marie --
marie		Oh come on, Alvin. These are good people.
truman		Who would put a pillow under the boy's head just to shoot him? Why would they tuck Nancy in?
dewey		 I want to know the same thing.
nelle		Twisted notion of tenderness.
nelle		Thank you.
marie		So many of my friends would love to meet you.
nelle		That'd be fine --
truman		 You don't have to worry. I'm not going to write about this until everything's over.
dewey		I'm not worried. I know what room you're in at the hotel. And I know where you live in Brooklyn.
holt		 I'd of picked them up but I haven't been myself. Mind you, I make the walk out here every day, check the house, make sure the pipes don't freeze -- that sort of item. The least I can do for Mr. Clutter.
nelle		How long have you worked here?
holt		1940 -- a lotta years. The wife too, cleaning the house. Cooking.
nelle		Well, she's marvelous. Lunch was wonderful.
holt		 I've asked around some -- if anyone's looking for a strong hand.
holt		I don't think they'll be able to sell the place till they catch the ones that did it.  That's what I hear anyhow.
jack		You're celebrating.
truman		Remember Nelle's manuscript she sent me in New York?
jack		Mockingbird. Killing a Mockingbird. You said it was good.
truman		And I was right. She just heard Lipincott wants to publish it.
jack		 Well. Jesus. That's terrific. Tell her congratulations.
truman		Congratulations.  Jealous.
jack		Just promise you'll be home by Christmas.
truman		I can't leave now Jack -- I mean it was hard at first, but now I'm practically the mayor.
jack		Alright.
truman		I want to come home -- I do. Though if they catch whoever did this, who knows what -- I'll probably be here til next Christmas.
jack		Right. I'll let you go.
truman		Jack, we'll go away this spring to write. Maybe Spain...
jack		Alright, Truman.
truman		Bye.  The poor boy misses me.
nelle		Truman.
truman		Nelle.
nelle		You remember when we were kids?
truman		I was never a kid. I was born fully formed.
nelle		I had no idea what a homosexual was. But I knew whatever they were, you were one of 'em.
truman		 -- girdle up -- no extra bulges -- if you're dressed right for him when he gets home, the evening should be smooth sailing. Bon voyage, gals.
marie		I can't believe you got this whole page -- I only read it to you once!
truman		I've trained myself.
nelle		...trained myself.
truman		I have 94 percent recall.
nelle		...94 percent recall.
truman		 You cut that out.
marie		You believe that Alvin?
alvin		Impressive.
marie		I'm sorry. He's upset.  Two men did it. They know who. One of them used to have a cellmate who gave him up for the thousand dollar reward. They passed through Kansas City last week writing bad checks -- by the time Alvin's boys got up there they'd skipped out again.
nelle		Where to?
marie		They have no idea.
dewey		Alvin. Paul. Now.
dewey		Damnit.  Come here.
marie		Alvin ...
dewey		Sit.
marie		Tell them we're at dinner, Alvin.
dewey		Not now, Alvin.
nelle		Hey.
marie		 Alvin told me.
dorothy		Truman Capote.
truman		Dorothy Sanderson. I figured you'd be left alone this morning by that hard-working husband of yours.  And I have literature. My friend Jack mailed me the book you wanted.
dorothy		"For the maiden of the Midwest, the priestess of the plains, the queen of the kitchen: my first novel. Truman."
dorothy		You're too much. Go on into the living room, lemme grab that -- it's been ringing all morning.
dorothy		Oh. Truman. I meant in there.  I... um...
dorothy		It's the women's cell. It's hardly ever used. But they wanted to, um, separate... Please. Let's sit in the living room. I'll set up in the living room.
dorothy		Come.
truman		They put you in the women's cell.
perry		Among other indignities.
truman		Well... she's a good cook.
perry		She's scared of me.
truman		I think so am I. A little bit.
perry		Are you?  You have any aspirin? My legs --
dorothy		Um. Truman? All set.
truman		I'm sorry.
truman		 His feet don't touch the floor.
judge tate		In the matter of the State of Kansas v. Richard Eugene Hickock and Perry Edward Smith this Court has been informed by counsel -- Mr. Weeks -- that defendants wish to waive their right to Preliminary Hearing. Mr. Hickock, is that your wish?
hickock		 Yessir. Yes.
truman		Why are they doing that?
judge tate		Mr. Smith.
perry		 I ask that the waiver be effectuated.
judge tate		So noted.  We're adjourned.
dorothy		Mr. Capote.
truman		 Madame Sanderson.
dorothy		Is that for the two of us to share? Or for me to eat alone while you talk to our guest?
truman		Was it your choice to waive the hearing?
truman		You still need some?  Give me your hand.
perry		I could kill you if you got too close.
truman		Would you like some water?
truman		Mrs. Sanderson lent you my book --
perry		He said we'd curry favor with the Judge if we waived our rights.
truman		Who did?
perry		The lawyer.
truman		Okay.
perry		Your picture's undignified. People recall first impressions.
truman		What's been your first impression?
perry		You want something.
truman		From you?
dorothy		Truman. Walter's gonna be home soon.
truman		 Has anyone else visited?
dorothy		Truman --
truman		Will you tell me if you need anything? I can have whatever you want sent from New York.  Will you do that?
shawn		William Shawn.
shawn		Truman.
truman		I'm writing a book. It's too much for a single article -- this town, the killers most of all -- you will be stunned by Perry Smith --
shawn		Why? What has he --
truman		Not much yet, but I know. I can sense him. He's desperately lonely, frightened... I have questions -- are you ready?
shawn		Would it matter --
truman		How much more money can you send me? How quickly can you get Dick Avedon out here to take some pictures?
hickock		Perry, honey. You look terrific...
hickock		Calm yourself down, sweetheart.
hickock		Be patient, Capote. Maybe later they'll send you my skin.
truman		I have the perfect place for it, over the hearth.
nelle		Where'd Perry get the art set?
judge tate		Members of the jury. Have you reached a verdict?
foreman		 Yes sir.
judge tate		Defendants rise.
judge tate		Perry Edward Smith and Richard Eugene Hickock stand accused of four counts of the crime of murder in the first degree. Have you reached a unanimous verdict?
foreman		We have, your honor.
judge tate		What is your verdict?
foreman		Guilty. On all counts.
judge tate		Have you unanimously reached a sentence.
foreman		We have, your honor.
judge tate		What is the sentence?
foreman		Death.
judge tate		Perry Edward Smith and Richard Eugene Hickock. You've been found guilty of four counts of murder in the first degree. You will be taken to the state penitentiary at Lansing. No later than midnight, May 13 of this year, nineteen hundred and sixty, each of you will be hanged by the neck until dead. So ordered.
hickock		Alright, partner. Least now we're not the only killers in Kansas.
truman		You think he slept at all?
truman		I need to see him before we go.
truman		They're going to transfer you up to Lansing today. You'll have to make sure to put me on the visitor's list. Otherwise I can't see you.
truman		Will you do that? I'm going to help find you a proper lawyer. You need a serious lawyer for an appeal.  They took Dick last night. I need you to get him to do the same thing -- put me on the visitor's list. Will you do that, Perry?
truman		Perry.
ben baron		Nelle. Kudos on "Kill the Bird." Is that it?
nelle		Close enough. Thanks.
shawn		He hasn't written a word yet, though he says it's the nonfiction book of the decade...
truman		He's as short as I am. And almost as pretty. I'd be with him right now but he's being given new accommodations --
truman		Most people assume he's a monster. I don't see him that way. The book I'm writing will return him to the realm of humanity -- it's the book I was always meant to write...
jack		Watch out. This is the start of a great love affair.
nelle		Oh yes. Truman in love with Truman.
truman		...I was in Marilyn's apartment just last week. I had to break it to her that, of the four Matisses hanging on her wall, two were upside down.
truman		Another.  To answer your question, I'm following "Breakfast at Tiffany's" by blazing a different path -- by inventing an entirely new kind of writing: the non-fiction novel.
reporter		You have a subject?
truman		On the night of November 14, two men broke into a quite farmhouse in Kansas and murdered an entire family. Why did they do that? It's been suggested that this subject is tawdry -- it's not worthy of literature. I disagree. Two worlds exist in this country -- the quiet conservative life, and the life of those two men -- the underbelly, the criminally violent. Those worlds converged that bloody night. I spent the past three months interviewing everyone in Kansas touched by that violence. I spent hours talking to the killers -- and I'll spend more.  Such a book can only be written by a journalist who has mastered the techniques of fiction --
reporter		You're speaking of yourself.
truman		You're really very clever.
truman		Perry's decided to appeal. He claims their attorney was incompetent -- that he never raised the issue of temporary insanity.
jack		So you find them a new lawyer.
truman		They're facing execution in six weeks, Jack. They need someone to argue whether or not that's right.
jack		Okay.
truman		I'd also like to see them alive, yes, thank you very much. I need to hear their story.
truman		If you met him you'd understand. It's as if no-one's ever asked him a single question about himself. He's so... damaged -- and strange -- unexplored...  I don't trust this Hickock fellow. Perry's the only person who can describe to me what happened that night. I need to hear him say it.
jack		Just be careful what you do to get what you want.
truman		I'm finding them a lawyer.
jack		Truman. You're finding yourself a lawyer.
krutch		We do well by our boys. Showers once a week. Feed em good. We'll be feeding Perry Smith in the infirmary soon if he don't eat. Get the food in through his arm.
truman		What are you talking about?
krutch		Hasn't eaten in a month. But it's not his right to kill himself. It's the People's right. The People of this State. And that's who I work for, the People. You can write any of this down.
truman		No one told me.
krutch		Yah. Won't eat.
truman		When can I see him?
krutch		 How about you come back Thursday?
truman		No. That's no good. I need to see them now, then whenever I want for as long as I want.
krutch		Not how we do things here.
truman		I see.
truman		I understand what a burden unlimited visitation might be -- on this institution, and on the People who pay for it. I want to be clear that I don't expect the citizens of Leavenworth County to have to shoulder that burden.
truman		To be dispensed as you see fit.
krutch		I didn't know where to count your boy -- being half-Indian. I did him a favor though.  Counted him White.
truman		You're a kind and generous man.
hickock		My hero.
truman		Hello.
hickock		Thanks for your help with the lawyer.
truman		That's fine.
hickock		You must be desperate for a story to come all the way out here.
hickock		You want to see Perry. Go ahead.
truman		Thank you.
hickock		Ask me, he's just trying to prove the insanity defense.
truman		 I don't care what your plans are for yourself...
truman		But you're gonna wake up enough to tell me what you did with my tie.
truman		It's okay. It's Truman. It's your friend.
truman		How'd you learn to draw like that?
perry		Before she had us. Before she started drinking.
truman		Who took care of you as a child?
perry		Orphanage. Me and Linda.
truman		That's your sister?
truman		We're not so different as you might think. I was abandoned repeatedly as a child. My mama'd drag me along to some new town so she could take up with another man she'd met. Night after night she'd lock me in the hotel room -- Mama'd turn the latch and tell the staff not to let me out no matter what. I was terrified -- I'd scream my head off -- till finally I'd collapse on the carpet next to the door and fall asleep. After years of this she just left me with relatives in Alabama.
perry		Who raised you up?
truman		My Aunts.  Your mother was Indian?
perry		Cherokee.
truman		Drinking was not a good thing for her.
perry		No tolerance for it.
truman		And your father?
perry		No tolerance for him either.
truman		What I can't decide is if you understand how fascinating you are.
perry		I'm sorry about your tie. They took it away from me because we're all on suicide watch. It's why the lights stay on at night.
truman		I hope we're past that now. You had me worried.
perry		Okay.
truman		I don't care about the tie. It's just a pity because it looked so good on you.
perry		Be careful of Ricardo. I think he wants you all to himself.
truman		Alright --
perry		But he's naturally mendacious -- not to be trusted -- if he had a hundred dollars he'd steal a stick of chewing gum.
truman		You wouldn't.
truman		I want to take your notebooks with me -- I want to read them.
truman		If I leave here without understanding you, the world will always see you as a monster. I don't want that -- I don't see you that way.
perry		I tracked my father down in Alaska. I was 14. One day I said to him, "Mom's dead." I could see it. A week later we got the news. She finally drunk herself to death.
truman		This is remarkable.
perry		Sometimes you see a thing -- how it really is.
truman		He trusts me -- that's why he gave it to me. He's given me absolutely everything.  You should see his drawings, Nelle, how good he is. He wants so badly to be taken seriously, to be held in some esteem.
nelle		Do you?
truman		Do I what?
nelle		Hold him in esteem?
truman		Well... he's a gold mine. I mean he's told me his entire life, and now it's all here for me to write down -- All of the history I need. His entire life in this Diary. His dead mother. A brother and sister killed themselves.
nelle		You tell him your mama did the same thing?
truman		I tell him everything. We've been talking our heads off the past month. Sometimes, when I think how good my book can be, I can hardly breathe.
nelle		Huh.
truman		 Where'd you go?
nelle		Christ. I guess it stopped being funny.
truman		I never said it was.  Listen to this...
dewey		 Thanks.
dewey		You're nothing if not hard-working.
truman		You look good, healthy again.
dewey		Not a chance.
truman		I've decided on a title for my book. I think you'll like it -- very masculine. "In Cold Blood."
dewey		 That refers to the crime or the fact that you're still talking to the criminals?
truman		The former, among other things.
dewey		I see.
truman		I've been wanting to ask if you'll let me look at your investigation notes.
dewey		That lawyer you helped find for your friends got them a hearing at the Kansas Supreme Court --
truman		I heard this morning.
dewey		-- on the issue of inadequate counsel.
truman		Alvin. Do you not want me to look at your notes? You are permitted to say no.
dewey		 I'll tell you what: if those boys get off, I'm coming to Brooklyn to hunt you down.
dewey		I have to be in court at nine o'clock.
dewey		Call Roy Church. He'll show you what you want to see.
hickock		Hey, hey...
perry		Thank you.
truman		It was as much for me as for anyone. I couldn't bear the thought of losing you so soon.
perry		We're going to be able to use your book for our case. You'll write we never got to raise our insanity plea. You wrote how terrible the lawyer was?
truman		I haven't written a word yet.
perry		What have you been doing?
truman		Research. Waiting to talk to you.
perry		All right.
truman		I had hoped --
perry		What are you calling it?
truman		The book?  I have no idea.
truman		If I'm going to write about you -- if I'm going to determine how to write about you -- you need to tell me about that night at the Clutter house.
truman		Perry.
truman		Why? Do you worry what I'll think?
truman		Is that it?
perry		Dick says you know Elizabeth Taylor.
truman		I know a lot of people.
truman		What is that you keep drawing?
perry		You must hate having to come to this place --
truman		Perry, I have invitations to be in Morocco, Greece... I choose to be here. Those people have everything, all their prayers have been answered, yet they're more desperate than ever. I prefer to be here with you.
perry		 That night I dreamed about the yellow bird. Tall. Yellow like the sun. It picked me up and it clawed the Nun's eyes and it lifted me into the sky.
truman		I'm just missing this one piece, Jack. Be patient with me.
jack		How long is that gonna take? Why don't you try leaving him alone for a while? Come to Spain. You can always visit him later.
truman		I don't know.
jack		Well, I'm off. I've got my own writing to do.
truman		Do it in Brooklyn. Wait for me.
jack		Too many people around.  I'll leave the address on the kitchen table. Truman, what do you do there when you're not with him? -- It must be awful.
jack		Think about what I said. Join me when you can.
truman		I will. I will. Bye.
perry		I didn't see you. Jesus, you...  Come in. Where's the guard?
truman		I can't. I brought you some things, but I have to fly back East.
perry		When?
truman		An hour. I'm sorry.
perry		You can't.
truman		I'm sorry.
perry		Who are you going there to see --
perry		I told him that.
perry		I told him!
truman		Your writings are magnificent. I hope these help you do more.
truman		I have so much material -- from the trial, from our visits, your journals. I have to organize it all, and I have to start the process of writing.  I miss you already. Write me every five minutes.
truman		What.
truman		I'm already well into the third part, but I -- I can't finish that till I convince Perry to describe the night of the killings to me. I was planning to visit this fall, see --
shawn		I think you need to talk to him now.
truman		And we all need to see how this ends for the final part. I can't finish the book till I know what happens. If Perry and Dick are executed it's one thing -- and if not, well --
shawn		Truman. You got your ending --
truman		I really don't know --
shawn		The Kansas court denied their appeal. It came over the wire on Friday. You need to talk to Perry now. He'll be dead by September. I'm sorry, I know how much you've come to care about him.
shawn		Truman?
truman		Right. Yes. Right.
shawn		I want to set up a reading for you in the fall, in New York. We'll build some interest, and we'll publish in the fall.
truman		Plums. Thank god. We have nothing in the house.
truman		Why aren't you working?
jack		I knew you couldn't be depended on to stock the kitchen.
jack		What would we feed our famous guest?
truman		Oh, Jesus. I completely forgot.
jack		 Plus -- I finished my novel yesterday.
truman		My man, my hero, my talented... My man...
jack		You said that.
truman		You are the hardest worker, the most unsung talent I know. As Nelle passes by on her way to London to sell her book which needs no selling, may a little of her success rub off on both of us.
jack		Here, here!
nelle		 When was the last time you wrote back to him?
truman		I don't know.
jack		What's this?
nelle		A letter for your boyfriend I was asked to deliver.
truman		From Perry.
jack		Let's have it.
nelle		"Dear Friend Truman. Where are you? Read this item in a medical dictionary: "Death by hanging is caused by asphyxia, by fracture of the cervical vertebrae, by laceration of the trachea." Not too comforting as we lost our appeal. Missing you -- alone and desirous of your presence. Your amigo, Perry."
truman		Mr. Shawn told me about the court decision yesterday.
jack		I was wondering why you were in such a good mood. Surely, I thought, it's not because I finished my little book.
truman		That's a terrible thing to say.
truman		 I used to write him all the time. I've been so focused lately on the book.
truman		Jack says I'm using Perry, but he also thinks I fell in love with him when I was in Kansas. How both of those things can be true is beyond me.
nelle		Did you? Fall in love with him.
nelle		Truman? --
truman		I don't know how to answer that... It's as if Perry and I started life in the same house. One day he stood up and walked out the back door while I walked out the front. With some different choices, he's the man I might have become.
nelle		Are you kidding me?
nelle		Be nice to Jack. Sometimes I think he's what I like about you best.
truman		 I'll see you at the reading in New York.
nelle		The sixteenth.
nelle		Truman. Honestly. Are you going back to Kansas because you care about Perry or because you need information before he's killed?
truman		Can't it be both?
nelle		No. I don't think it can be.
perry		What was he in jail for?
truman		They said it was not paying his taxes. But really for being an outsider -- refusing to go along.
truman		You don't have to read any of these if you don't want to. But I thought you'd like something decent. You're much too smart for adventure magazines.
row guard		Lock-down while Lowell goes to solitary. Nobody in or out.  You want in or out?
truman		In.
perry		Everyone says he's a genius. I don't think he's a genius. He's rich and he went to college -- like any of us would've if we got the chance. He came home for Christmas and shot his parents --
truman		-- in front of the television.
perry		You remember the story --
truman		They were watching Father Knows Best.
perry		I won't be sorry to see him go. Always correcting my grammar.
perry		Now -- Dick and me -- we're next in line.
truman		I'm so sorry I've been away.
perry		It was a long time.
truman		I know.
perry		I wish you could come next week, when they take him out to the Corner, but the whole prison shuts down.
truman		I have to be in New York anyway.
perry		How's the book going?
truman		Very slowly.
perry		Will you show it to me?
truman		I've hardly written anything.
hickock		Keep your head high, buddy.
andrews		Alright now.
hickock		...or they won't be able to rope you under your fat fucking chin.
andrews		Next!
ben baron		 Hello Hollywood. That's quite a bundle you sold your book for.
nelle		Well...
nelle		What a gentleman.
young assistant		Mr. Capote. Can I get you anything?
truman		No.  Thank you.
truman		Hello. My name is Truman Capote.
truman		Perry Smith's voice was both gentle and prim -- a voice that, though soft, manufactured each sound exactly -- ejected it like a smoke ring issuing from a parson's mouth.
truman		The four coffins, which quite filled the small, flower-crowded parlor, were to be sealed at the funeral services -- very understandably, for the effect... was disquieting. Nancy wore her dress of cherry-red velvet, her brother a bright plaid shirt; the parents were more sedately attired, Mr. Clutter in navy-blue flannel, his wife in navy-blue crepe; and -- and it was this especially that lent the scene an awful aura -- the head of each was completely encased in cotton, a swollen cocoon twice the size of an ordinary blown- up balloon, and the cotton, because it had been sprayed with a glossy substance, twinkled like Christmas- tree snow.
truman		Imagination, of course, can open any door -- turn the key and let terror walk right in. [One] Tuesday, at dawn, a carload of... strangers, ignorant of the local disaster -- were startled by what they saw as they crossed the prairies and passed through Holcomb: windows ablaze, almost every window in almost every house, and, in the brightly lit rooms, fully clothed people, even entire families, who had sat the whole night wide awake, watchful, listening. Of what were they frightened? "It might happen again."
literary enthusiast		Your portrait of those men was terrifying. Terrifying.
truman		Thank you.
isherwood		Your hairpiece is terrifying.
truman		I was going to say the same thing!
shawn		Everyone was there.
truman		Tennessee loved it.
shawn		Of course he did.
truman		Should we do more? I was terrified, but --
shawn		No, Now we get to withhold while everyone else talks. Let them do the work.
shawn		This book is going to change everything. It'll change how people see you as a writer. It'll change how people write. You'll finish by October?
truman		I think so. You know they're scheduled for next month?
shawn		Hanging. Yes. I'll commit as many issues as it takes to publish. Three. As many as it takes.
truman		I'm flying to Kansas tomorrow. I'll get Perry to talk --
shawn		Honestly, what's he got to lose?
truman		It really is too awful. Institutionalized sadism.
shawn		You'll be able to finish now.
truman		As strange as it may sound to you, I'm going to miss him.
truman		When did you hear?
perry		Two days ago.
perry		It's what we've been waiting for. A stay of execution to make a federal appeal.
perry		All thanks to you.
perry		Kansas's had it in for me for ten years -- in prison the first time, at that trial, here. They can't corner me now. Not till the U.S. Government says so --
truman		Perry, sit down. For a minute.  I need you to talk to me...
perry		We've got all the time in the world to talk. About everything. I've been thinking about Ricardo. You need to stop sending him those trashy books. I won't even mention the pornography.  I realize he might have trouble grasping the literature you gave me, but those books only exacerbate the problem -- only 'heighten' or 'intensify' it. Maybe we should start him on a program...
truman		Perry.
perry		Give him the simple novels first --
truman		Perry.
truman		I know what exacerbate means.
perry		Okay. I thought in case...
truman		There is not a word, or a sentence, or a concept, that you can illuminate for me. There is one singular reason that I keep coming here --
perry		Truman --
truman		...November 14th, 1959. Three years ago. Three years. That's all I want to hear from you.
perry		I've asked you not to --
truman		 I have a plane to catch. I found your sister in Tacoma. Maybe she'll talk to me about something useful.
perry		Don't go out there.
perry		Please don't go out there.
truman		This is my work, Perry. I'm working. When you want to tell me what I need to hear, you let me know.
truman		They've never seen these pictures?
truman		I don't think life works that way.
truman		When was the last time you saw him?
truman		Do you think I could borrow one of those pictures?
truman		 Alright.
truman		Hello handsome.
row guard		You want to go in?
truman		Yes
perry		What's the name of your book?
perry		What's the name of your book?
truman		I don't...
perry		What's the name of your book?
truman		I don't know what you're talking about.
perry		"Truman Capote read last night before a packed audience from his non-fiction book IN COLD BLOOD."
perry		More?  "The true-crime novel tells of killers Richard Hickock and Perry Smith, who brutally murdered a Kansas family three years ago."
truman		Who sent that to you?
truman		Who sent that to you?
perry		That's not your goddamn business.
truman		It is my business, because it's not true. The organizers of the reading needed a title. They picked one -- a sensational one, I admit -- to attract a crowd.
perry		They picked it.
truman		Yes.
perry		That's not your title.
truman		I haven't chosen one yet.
truman		How could I choose --
perry		You pretend to be my friend...
truman		How could I choose a title when you still haven't told me what happened that night? How could I? I couldn't possibly.
truman		I have something from your sister.
truman		She misses you.
truman		It's alright. I'll go in.
truman		I'm sorry. I should have told you what they made me call the book.  You don't have to tell me anything if you don't want to.
perry		Look at my belly.
perry		There must be something wrong with us. To do what we did.
perry		We heard there was ten thousand dollars in that house. Once we'd tied up everybody and searched all over, I knew the guy who told us about it was wrong. There wasn't any money. But Dick wouldn't believe it. He went tearing through the house again, banging on the walls, looking for a safe. He said when he was done, he was going to come up to Nancy's room and have his way with her. I wouldn't allow it. I told him that. I sat with Nancy.
perry		Dick came to get me and we turned out the lights and went down to the basement, where we had Mr. Clutter and the boy. Dick kept saying "No witnesses." I figured if I just waited him out he'd give up and leave them tied up there. We'd drive all night, they'd never find us. Mr. Clutter's wrists were tied to a pipe over his head. He looked like he was hurt, so I cut him down.
perry		We put a box there on the floor so he'd be more comfortable. He asked if his wife and daughter were alright and I said they were fine, they were ready to go to sleep. I told him it wasn't long till morning when somebody would find them.  He was looking at me. Just... looking at me. Looking at my eyes. Like he expects me to kill him -- expects me to be the kind of person who would kill him. I was thinking -- this nice man, he's scared of me. I was ashamed. I mean, I thought he was a kind man, a good... a gentleman. I thought so right up to the moment I cut his throat. I didn't realize what I'd did till I heard the sound.
perry		I was staring at him, bleeding on the floor. I told Dick to finish him off, but he wouldn't do it. We couldn't leave Mr. Clutter like that, so I got the shotgun.
perry		Then we drove off.
perry		What do you think of me now?
truman		Added up, how much money did you get from the Clutters?
perry		Between forty and fifty dollars.
truman		Jack.
truman		Jack.
truman		Mr. Shawn, I... I've spent four years of my life on this book... They got a stay of execution yesterday... Another, yes....
truman		Supreme Court....
truman		...It's harrowing -- all I want is to write the ending and there's no fucking end in sight... No. No, I haven't been drinking again...
jack		I don't know how you can eat that. Perhaps if you weren't drinking so much you wouldn't have to.
jack		 "Dear friend Truman. Haven't heard from you in such a long while. Please help find new lawyer. If not, Dick will have to write Supreme Court brief himself. Our last appeal. What a pair of wretched creatures. Please help. Your amigo? Perry."
jack		Your amigo.
truman		Put it with the others.
jack		You tried?
jack		 You need to get ready.
jack		At least pretend for Nelle that you're having a good time tonight.
truman		Nelle.
nelle		I thought I'd find you here.
truman		 Please, another.
nelle		How are you?
truman		Terrible.
nelle		I'm sorry to hear that.
truman		Well. It's torture. Torture...  ...what they're doing to me.
nelle		Uh-huh.
truman		Now the Supreme Court. Can you believe it? If they win this appeal I will have a complete nervous breakdown. I may never recover. Just pray things turn my way.
nelle		It must be hard.
truman		It's torture. They're torturing me.
nelle		I see.
nelle		And how'd you like the movie, Truman.
truman		I frankly don't know what the fuss is about.
truman		Hello.
truman		Yes?
operator		I have a call from Mr. Perry Smith in the Kansas Correctional System. Will you accept charges?
operator		Mr. Truman Capote?
truman		Yes.
operator		Will you accept charges?
truman		Oh.  Uh... Yes.
operator		You'll accept charges?
truman		Yes.
operator		Mr. Smith, you're on the line.
perry		Hello? I can't --  Operator, I don't think you put me --
truman		I'm here.
perry		Truman.
truman		Hello, Perry.
perry		They let me make a couple phone calls before I go down to Holding... You heard the Supreme Court rejected the appeal.
truman		I didn't... I hadn't heard that.
perry		Yeah.
truman		I'm sorry.
perry		Yeah. They let me make two phone calls.
perry		We've got a date set for the Warehouse, Dick and me. Two weeks
perry		Will you visit me? Truman. Will you come visit?
truman		I don't know if I can. I'll try.  I don't know if I can.
perry		Please visit me, Truman. Just...
guard		Ready.
krutch		Perry.
krutch		You're allowed three names of people you'd like to witness tomorrow. If there's anybody you want, tell me now.
perry		Truman Capote.
krutch		Anybody else?
shawn		You want anything?
perry		Thank you.  You sent the telegram to his hotel?
guard		Hours ago.
perry		May I make a phone call?
shawn		That's him again.
shawn		We've never even met. It is utterly inappropriate for me to be talking to him.
shawn		Yes... I'm sorry, he's out, gone out... I'm not sure when...
krutch		You got a telex.
krutch		"Perry. Unable to visit today because not permitted. Always your friend, Truman."  That's it.
perry		It's not true, is it?
nelle		Would you put him on please?
shawn		He won't talk.
nelle		 Mr. Shawn, if you have to hold him down and put the phone on his ear, I need to speak to him.
shawn		It's Nelle.
krutch		I didn't think I'd be seeing you again.  You can visit for a few minutes.
shawn		No.
truman		Come with me.
shawn		Truman. No.
krutch		Five minutes.
hickock		 He returns. Long time.
truman		I don't know what you must think of me.
hickock		You haven't been foremost on my mind lately. As you can imagine.
perry		You got the letter?
truman		Yes.
perry		It's true. I mean I understand why you didn't want to come. I wouldn't be here either if I didn't have to.
hickock		You got that right.
perry		You know Ricardo donated his eyes to science? Next week, some blind man will be seeing what Dick used to see.
hickock		 Hey. You'll be walking down the street one day in Denver, wherever -- and suddenly these eyes will be staring at you. Wouldn't that be something?
truman		 It would be.
krutch		Time.
perry		You'll be watching?
truman		I don't know. Do you want me to?
perry		I'd like to have a friend there.
truman		Okay. Then I will.
perry		It's alright.
truman		I did everything I could.
perry		Okay.
truman		I truly did.
perry		I know.
truman		Goodbye, Perry.
perry		You're not rid of me yet. I'll see you in a few minutes.
perry		Nice to see you.
krutch		Perry Edward Smith.  You can say something if you want.
perry		 Is there anybody from the family here?
krutch		No.
perry		Well. Tell them...  I can't remember what I was going to say for the life of me...
chaplain		Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me.
chaplain		Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.
chaplain		Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou annointest my head with oil.
chaplain		My cup runneth over.
nelle		Hello.
truman		Someday I'll tell you about it. For the moment, I'm too shattered.
nelle		They're dead, Truman. You're alive.
truman		It was a terrible experience and I will never get over it.  There wasn't anything I could have done to save them.
nelle		Maybe not.
nelle		But the fact is, you didn't want to.
shawn		It came to the hotel this morning. I told them I'd give it to you.
perry		Life is only the father of wisdom. Death is the mother.
****Dialogues from script :Carrie.txt****

written by		 Lawrence D. Cohen & Stephen King
stella		Hiya, Carrie. Gee you gave me a fright.  How long have you been there?
carrie		 What are those?
stella		Those are my breasts, honey.
carrie		 I wish I had some.
stella		You will. `Course you'll have to wait a couple of years, but
carrie		 No I won't.
stella		Why, sure you will.
carrie		 Momma says no... Momma says good girls don't. 3
stella		 Well, I'm a good girl. And besides, doesn't your mother have breasts?
carrie		...dirtypillows.
stella		What?
carrie		Momma calls them dirtypillows. Says she's got them `cuz she was bad when she made me.
stella		Now, honey, that's just silly. Listen  you must be real hot in that long dress. What do you say we go inside and get us some lemonade, would you like that?
stella		C'mon.  It'll be our secret.
carrie		I can't!
stella		Sure you can. I make it nice and sweet, and
margaret		CAARRIEETTAAA!!!
stella		Mother!  Mother! 5
stella		 I don't know... Carrie was just talking to me, and Mrs. White started screaming and...
stella		Don't you yell at her like that! Stop that!
stella		Mother, we've got to do something!
stella		Call the police? Mother, call the police!
margaret's voice		Stop that! Stop that!
margaret's voice		Carrie!
carrie		Yes, Momma.
margaret's voice		You come straight home from school.
carrie		 I always do, Momma.
bobby		Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie! Praying, Carrie, praying Carrie, praying Carrie!
fromm's voice		What are you going to leave for us, You people in your big cars Spewing pollution into the air?
fromm's voice		You people with heavy feet Trampling down the wilderness? You people who peer into the back seats of our cars Hours after you come out of the back doors of your motels. Soon all we will have is each other, and that could be enough...
fromm		...If you will let us have room enough And air enough And peace enough To love each other As you never could 10
fromm		I must say  I must confess  this poem displays an extraordinary talent...  ...a talent extraordinary for you, Tommy Ross.
fromm		Tommy, this is slightly different from running for a touchdown... Any criticisms?
fromm		Carrie White?
carrie		It's... beautiful.
fromm		`Beautiful.' `Bee-t-ti-ful!' `Oh beautiful for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain.' Is that the beautiful you mean?
fromm		That isn't exactly a criticism, Miss White.  Well, at least we've finally gotten Carrie White to say something!
tommy		 You suck.
fromm		Tommy? You said something?
tommy		Yes, sir.  I said... `shucks.'
collins		Okay, now. This is game point.
rhonda		 Twenty  Twenty.
chris		 You eat shit!
cut to:		13
collins		What are you waiting for, Carrie?  Bell in five minutes.
carrie		Oh uh?
chris		Peer-iod! Peer-iod!
girls		Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod!
norma		14
girls		Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up!
sue		For God's sakes, Carrie, you got your period.  Clean yourself up!
sue		 You're bleeding! You dumb pudding, you're bleeding!
norma		She thinks they're for lipstick.
girls		Plug it up, plug it up, plug it up, plug it up....
collins		15
collins		 Get out! Get out!
sue		It must be her first...
collins		Out!
carrie		M... M... Miss Collins...
collins		Stand up. Take care of yourself.
carrie		I'm bleeding.
collins		Damn you!
collins		Get over there! And take one!
carrie		16
collins		Never mind the coin slot... It's broken.
carrie		It hurts... my stomach...
collins		 Do it! Now.
carrie		I can't. I don't know how!
collins		What...?
collins		Carrie, don't you know...?  I'll show you.
morton		Isn't she a bit old for her...
collins		17
morton		Ah, yes.
collins		Morty, until a half hour ago, I don't think she knew there was such a thing.
morton		It's hard to believe in this day and age a girl in high school wouldn't know... something... the facts.
collins		Well, knowing that mother of hers...
morton		 Miss Collins, if you'd been with us longer, you'd understand we cannot interfere with people's beliefs. As for the girls
collins		Carrie's always been their scapegoat. So they...
morton		You'll have to do something.
collins		I will. But I understood how those girls felt. The whole thing just made me want to take the girl and shake her.
morton		Ummm.
collins		It's just her period, for God's sake.
morton		 Miss Finch, send in Cassie Wright. 18
collins		It's Carrie White.
morton		 Oh.
morton		Come in, Cassie.
morton		Close the door. No, wait.  I think you might take the rest of the day and go home and, uh, well... take care of yourself, Cassie.
carrie		 Carrie.
morton		We're all sorry about this incident.
morton		 Would you like to go to the infirmary?...
morton		...lie down for a while...
collins		I think Carrie can go home. 19
morton		Would you like a ride?
morton		We could call you a cab.
collins		I'm sure she can walk home. And Carrie, you're excused from gym for a week. Take study hall instead.
morton		We are sorry about this, Cassie.
carrie		 That's not my name!
collins		 That reminds me. A light blew out while I was trying to calm her down.
morton		I'll send a janitor to fix it.
bobby		Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie!
bobby		Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face...
bobby		 Fart-face!
bobby's voice		Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face!
eleanor		Oh, Mrs. White.
margaret		How have you been, Mrs. Snell?
eleanor		Fine.
margaret		And the doctor?
eleanor		Fine.
margaret		And your daughter? 24
eleanor		Sue is... fine.
eleanor		Won't you come in, Mrs. White?
margaret		Thank you.
eleanor		I think Carrie is in some of Sue's classes.
margaret		Yes.
eleanor		Perhaps some time Carrie might visit...
margaret		I'm here on the Lord's work.
eleanor		Yes, of course.
margaret		These will interest the doctor and you.
eleanor		I'm sure they will.
margaret		And your daughter.
eleanor		 Well, I don't think Sue would be 25
margaret		 Children are godless these days, Mrs. Snell.
eleanor		My Sue is a good girl.
margaret		These are Godless times.
eleanor		I'll drink to that!
eleanor		 We'll all read... these.
eleanor		Excuse me.  Please sit down.
eleanor		Hello... Betty, can I call you back? Margaret White is here... Right... right... Let me get rid of her and I'll call you back.
eleanor		We'd like to contribute ten...  ...twenty dollars.
margaret		Thank you. I'll give you a receipt.
eleanor		Thank you, Mrs. White.
margaret		I'll pray you find Jesus before it's too late.
sue		That's Carrie White's mother...
sue		 What did she want?
eleanor		 ...and I gave her a donation.
eleanor		 Well, how was school today? 27
sue		Today? Like always.
margaret's voice		I know you're listening. Come downstairs.
carrie		Hello, Momma.
carrie		Who was it that called?  What did they say?
margaret		 You're a woman now.
carrie		Oh Momma, why didn't you tell me something? I was so scared...
margaret		`And God made Eve from the rib of Adam. And Eve was weak and loosed the raven on the world, and the raven was called Sin  `
margaret		...and the raven was called sin...
carrie		Why didn't you tell me? Oh, Momma
margaret		 ...and the raven was called Sin! ...and the first sin was intercourse. 30
carrie		I was so scared! And the other girls, they made fun of me and threw things and
carrie		Momma, please listen. It wasn't my fault.
carrie		Momma!
margaret		And Eve was weak and... say it, woman!
carrie		Momma, please help me.
margaret		And Eve was weak and loosed the raven on the world.
carrie		They threw things...
margaret		 ...and the raven was called Sin... Sin! ...and the first sin was intercourse.
carrie		Momma, please listen.
margaret		And the Lord visited Eve with a curse, and the curse was the Curse of Blood! 31
carrie		You should have told me!
margaret		 O Lord, help this sinning woman see the sin of her days and ways. Show her that if she had remained sinless
carrie		No!
margaret		-- the Curse of Blood would never have come on her. She may have been tempted by the Antichrist. She may have committed the Sin of Lustful Thoughts.
carrie		No, Momma.
margaret		Don't you lie to me, Carietta, don't you know by now I can see inside you? I can see your sin just as surely as God can.
carrie		Momma, let me go.
margaret		We will pray. We will pray, woman, we will pray to Jesus for our woman-weak, wicked, sinning souls...
margaret		And the Lord visited Eve with a Curse, and the Curse was the Curse of Blood. And there was a Second Curse, and this was the Curse of Childbearing, and Eve brought forth Cain in sweat and blood!
carrie		Please!
tommy		Hey.
tommy		Hey, what's the matter?
sue		Nothing.
tommy		What did I do?
sue		Nothing. It's not you. 34
tommy		Hey, everything's all right. I love you, honey.  Did I...?
sue		 It's Carrie.
tommy		Who?
sue		Carrie. Carrie White.
tommy		Praying Carrie?
sue		 Don't call her that.
tommy		 That's what she said when I read that poem you wrote for me.
sue		Tommy, please...
tommy		 Jesus!
tommy		Hey, honey, it was a beautiful poem. I wish I could have written it.  Honey? 35
sue		Don't call me that.
tommy		Don't call her that. Don't call me that. What the hell's the matter with you?
tommy		Hey, are you crying?  Are you?
tommy		Jesus, Sue, what is it?
sue		 I told you.
tommy		Told me what?
tommy		That thing in the shower?  Hey, it was a joke, wasn't it? I mean, everyone was doing it.
sue		I'm not everyone.
tommy		You're special.
sue		I was one of them.
tommy		So you were teasing Carrie White 36
sue		We were hurting her
tommy		She's used to it. Jesus, you remember how she'd get down on her knees and say grace in the cafeteria... alone, for Christ's sake. And the way she dresses... Hey, Sue, she's asking for it.
sue		 How would you like to be Carrie White?
tommy		How would I like to be Carrie White?
sue		How would you like to be Carrie White? How would you like to be Carrie White instead of being Tommy Ross... big man, big jock, popular.
tommy		What's the big deal about being popular? I mean, one day I'll wake up and find myself working at my dad's car lot and out Friday nights and Saturdays at Uncle Billy's or the Cavalier drinking beer and maybe married with a bunch of kids...  What's that got to do with Carrie White? Or anything?
sue		I did something wrong and I feel bad about it.
tommy		I can understand that. Hey, back in seventh grade, there was this kid...
sue		 I've got to do something about it.
tommy		Like what?
sue		I don't know yet. Apologize.
tommy		Okay, you tell her you're sorry. 37
sue		That's not enough. That's like something my mom would do.
tommy		What are you going to do? Kiss her, for God's sake?
sue		God, I hate you sometimes!
tommy		What the hell do you want me to do?
sue		I want you to help me. Or are you just interested in fucking me?
tommy		 Don't say that!
sue		Fucking me, fucking me...
tommy		Cut it out!
sue		Then help me!
tommy		Okay, what can I do?
sue		I want you to think about Carrie White. 38
tommy		 What's there to think about?
sue		Think about it.
tommy		Jesus.
tommy		I never thought about her. I mean, she wasn't someone you had to think about.  You know what I mean?
tommy		 Carrie White?
dissolve to:		39
margaret		Go to bed.
carrie		Good night, Momma.
margaret		Carrie! Carrie? Carrie!
margaret		Carrie! Carrie, open this door!  Carrie!
carrie's voice		 It's open, Momma.
margaret		What was that noise?
carrie		41
margaret		Go to bed.
collins		...Snell...
sue		Here.
watson		Present. 42
collins		...and the Wilsons.
cora		Here...
rhonda		...Miss Collins.
collins		 Okay. Sit down.
collins		You too, Chris. And spit out that gum.
chris		 Where'll I put it, Miss Collins?
collins		You can choke on it for all I care. Now sit down.
collins		Okay. I just want you all to know that you did a shitty thing yesterday. A really shitty thing.
collins		Did any of you stop to think that Carrie White has feelings? Do any of you ever stop to think? No, I guess you've got your minds on your dates and the Prom. Chris, I imagine you can take your pick, who's the lucky guy?
chris		 Billy Nolan.
collins		 Who? Speak up! I can't hear you.
chris		Billy Nolan
collins		Well, isn't he the lucky one.
collins		And what about you, Sue? Who's taking you?
sue		Tommy Ross. 44
collins		Right  Okay. Now my idea for this little trick you pulled was three days' suspension and refusal of your prom tickets.
collins		That would hit you where you live, now, wouldn't it? And you'd deserve it  I don't think any of you have any idea of just how nasty what you did was. The office has decided that you're to have one week's detention.
collins		But. There's one little catch. It's to be my detention. Right here in the gym. Fifty minutes every day. Get the picture?
chris		I won't come.
collins		That's up to you, Chris. That's up to all of you. Punishment for skipping detention is three days' suspension and the loss of your prom tickets. Any other thoughts?
collins		Right. Now change up.
cut to:		46
chris		She can't get away with this. I'm going to get her. That goddamn snerd
sue		Let it go, Chris. 47
collins		The period's not up, Hargensen.
chris		It is for me.
collins		There are ten minutes left.
chris		Stick them up your ass.
chris		You can't hit us! You'll get canned for this, you bitch! My father
collins		One more word from you and I'll throw you across the room. Want to see if I'm telling the truth?
chris		She can't get away with this! Goddammit! If we all stick together, we can
chris		Norma... Helen... Sue! 48
sue		 Shut up, Chris. Just shut up.
chris		This isn't over. This isn't over by a long shot.
chris		Hey, Sue! Just who I've been looking for!
chris		 I wanted you to sign my yearbook. Hey, where's you old man, did he stand you up?
sue		 Still at practice 49
chris		Well, I guess you've heard I'm out of the prom. I bet that cocksucker Morton loses his job, though. Daddy's suing them. Hey, Billee! Billee! Come over and say hi to Sue.
chris		 Hey, is that it? Just Sue Snell?
billy		Hey, Suze.
chris		I think we're going anyway, right, Billee?
billy		Sure thing, Charlie.
sue		You mean crash?
chris		Sure, why not? Hey, listen, I've got a good one. "Roses are red, violets are blue, sugar is sweet, but Carrie White eats shit."
sue		Chris, I've got to go.
chris		 That goddamn Carrie! If only the rest of you had walked out with me... Jesus, Sue, why didn't you? 50
sue		I took the detention because I thought we  I  earned it. It was a shitty thing to have done. End of statement.
chris		Bullshit! That goddamn snerd and her batshit mother  saying we're all going to hell.
sue		 What'd she ever do to you, Chris? Or to any of us? Why do you hate her so much?
chris		Hey, hey... tell me if I'm wrong, but who was that n there pitching with the rest of us?
sue		Me.  Me. But I stopped.
chris		 You stopped. Hey, Billee, she stopped.
chris		 God, I'm dumb sometimes. Billee, hey, Billee, do you want to know why Suze here didn't walk out?
sue		I'll see you around, Chris.
chris		No. Wait. You stopped, remember? So just stop again.  Why didn't you walk out? Why didn't you walk out, Sue?
sue		Okay, Chris. That's enough.
chris		You didn't walk out, Sue... little Suze... little Suzy Creamcheese... because you didn't want to miss a moment of your precious prom.
sue		And you don't?
chris		 I'll bet you've got your dress all picked out, too. What color is it? Yellowguts?
chris		 See you around, Sue.
tommy		Hi!
sue		I want to talk to you.
tommy		Sure, what's up?
sue		If I asked you to do something for me  something special  would you?
tommy		 Uh-huh.
sue		No matter how crazy it sounded?
tommy		Sure. What?
tommy		 Are you out of your mind? 53
chris		Goddamnit, Billy!
chris		 Slow down, you stupid shit!
billy		Scared, Chuckie?
chris		No. You'll kill us, you stupid shit!
billy		Don't call me that.
chris		Stupid shit.
chris		 Stupid shit.
billy		 Oh wow!
billy		What's wrong?
chris		Can't you wait a minute?
billy		What for?
chris		You're so ignorant.
billy		That's what you like. 55
chris		Bullshit.
billy		No? I'll show you what you like, Chuckie.
chris		No.
billy		Jesus.
chris		No!
billy		...How you... gonna... explain that...
chris		Dumb shit!
billy		What'd I tell you?
billy		 Hell is this?
chris		I want you to do something. 56
chris		I want you to do something for me. Something important.
billy		 Something important?
chris		It will be very important to me. It will make me feel very good if you do it.
chris		 Billy, I hate Carrie White.
tommy		Okay. I'll do it.
dissolve to:		57
margaret		 Carrie, did you pray?
tommy's voice		Carrie?
carrie		Ohuh?
tommy		How're you doing?
carrie		 Okay. 58
tommy		I thought you had gym this period.
tommy		 What're you reading?
carrie		 It's about... um.. sewing...
tommy		Umm... if you don't have a date for the Prom, would you want to go with me?
carrie		What?
tommy		The Prom...
tommy		 ...It's next Friday, and I know this is later notice, but they stop selling tickets soon, and
carrie		I don't like to be tricked.
tommy		Carrie... 59
george		Hey, Ross!
tommy		Hey, Carrie! Wait!
tommy		 Hey, it's no big deal.
carrie		Do you people think you can just go on tricking me forever?
tommy		Sorry.
dissolve to:		60
collins		Carrie?  Was it one of the girls? Did one of the girls do something to you? Do you want a Kleenex?
carrie		No.
collins		It's all right. Just tell me, there's nothing to be afraid of.
carrie		Miss Collins...
collins		That's it...
carrie		When can I come back to gym?
collins		Not until Monday. Now what is it? Are you going to tell me? Come on, Carrie, tell me.
carrie		I got asked to the prom.
collins		That's great!
carrie		Tommy Ross asked me.
collins		Tommy Ross  that's wonderful. He's cute. 61
carrie		I know who he goes around with. They're trying to trick me again. I know.
collins		Maybe he really meant it. I mean, maybe he really did mean it. Maybe you should think about it. It might be really fun. You might have a really good time!
carrie		It would be a nightmare.
collins		C'mon, Carrie. You should have a better image of yourself. You just think you're unattractive, but look at your hair. It's really beautiful. If you just fixed it up a little... here, I'll show you.
collins		Carrie's been asked to the prom.
morton		Who?
collins		Carrie White.
morton		By whom? The Beak?
collins		By Tommy Ross.
morton		What about his girlfriend? Doesn't he date the little Snell girl? 62
collins		I think she put him up to it.
collins		Who's brainstorm was this?  What are you trying to do?
sue		You've got it wrong.
collins		I hope so. I wouldn't have expected this from you, Sue. Not any of it. Well?
sue		What do you want to know?
collins		Why Tommy asked her to the prom.  Well?
sue		 I asked him to.
collins		Why?
sue		 I asked him to.
collins		But, in God's name, what for? What could you possibly have in mind?
sue		You mean what good would it do? Maybe it'll... bring her out of... make her a...
collins		A part of things? Oh, come on, Sue. None of us are that stupid. And neither is Carrie.
sue		Maybe not.
collins		And you're not going to go? You're going to stay home and miss your senior prom?
collins		 Yes, Norma? What is it?
norma		Just the attendance sheets, Miss Collins.
collins		Just leave them on the desk.  You understand, you can't come without a date?
collins		 Is there something else, Norma?
norma		 No, Miss Collins.
collins		 Which brings us to you.
tommy		Miss Collins, I have to get to practice.
collins		That's too bad.
tommy		Look, this is between Sue and me. If you don't mind...
collins		Oh, but I do. Or would you rather we continue this discussion in Mr. Morton's office?
tommy		 What's the big deal?
collins		Because it's a very big deal for Carrie White. And you know it.
tommy		Anyway, she's already said no.
sue		You can make her change her mind.
tommy		Don't overrate me.
collins		Just don't try.
tommy		Okay.
sue		It's not okay.  You can't order anyone not to take someone to the prom.
collins		65
sue		We're not trying to hurt her. We're trying to help her.
collins		How?
collins		 Tommy, when you come to the prom with Carrie White, don't you think you'll look a little ridiculous?
tommy		Well...
sue		We don't care how we look.
sue		 Do we?
tommy		So this is where you live.
carrie		What... what're you doing here? 66
tommy		 Aren't you going to ask me in?
tommy		 Why not?
carrie		Momma's resting. What do you want?
tommy		Right to the point, huh? Okay, about the prom.
carrie		I already told you.
tommy		 Nothing to stop you changing your mind. Girls do it all the time.
carrie		Why are you doing this?
tommy		Hey, I'm asking you because I want to.
carrie		No.
tommy		Look, I don't do anything I don't want to.
carrie		I can't.
tommy		Sure you can.
carrie		You better go.
margaret's voice		Carrie! Who are you talking to?
tommy		Don't you think you better answer?
carrie		No one, Momma.
tommy		You're going with me.
carrie		I can't.
tommy		You're going.
carrie		They'll laugh.
tommy		No one will laugh. We'll see to it.
carrie		Please. Please go.
tommy		Not `til you say yes.
carrie		Why? Why is it so important to you?
tommy		I don't know. Maybe it's because you liked my poem. 68
carrie		Yes.  Okay.
tommy		I'll pick you up at eight.
carrie		 Thank you.
margaret's voice		Carrie? Did you hear me?
carrie		Coming, Momma. Coming.
sue		Why not?
helen		Why did you do it? God, everyone's talking. 69
sue		I asked Tommy to take Carrie. I thought I owed her that much.
helen		Where does that put the rest of us?
sue		You have to make up your own mind.
helen		And Tommy went along with it?
sue		Uh-huh.  I guess the other kids think I'm stuck-up.
helen		Well... they're all talking about it. But most of them still think you're okay.
helen		There is...  ...a small dissenting faction.
sue		I guess she's having a field day with this.
helen		Susie, she hates your guts.
margaret		You haven't touched your pie, Carrie.
carrie		It makes me have pimples, Momma.
margaret		Your pimples are the Lord's way of chastising you.
carrie		Momma?
margaret		Yes?
carrie		Momma, please see that I have to start to get... to try and get along with people.
margaret		Whatever are you going on about? Have you been showering with the other girls again?
carrie		I... I've been invited to the prom.
margaret		 Prom?
carrie		It's next Friday, and 71
margaret		It's that teacher, the one that called. She'll be sorry.
carrie		Momma, please see that I'm not like you. I'm funny, I mean, the kids think I'm funny. I don't want to be. I want to try and be a whole person before it's too late to
carrie		 His name is Tommy Ross, and he's a very nice boy. He's
margaret		No!
carrie		-- promised to stop in and meet you before, and
margaret		 -- I said no!
carrie		-- have me in by midnight. I've
margaret		 No, no, no
carrie		-- accepted.
carrie		 I've accepted, Momma. I have accepted. 72
margaret		The closet.
carrie		No.
margaret		After all you've been taught
carrie		Everyone isn't bad, Momma, everything isn't sinful.
margaret		Go to your closet and pray. Ask to be forgiven!
carrie		You'll like this boy, he....
margaret		Boys. Yes, boys come next. After the blood, the boys come. Like sniffing dogs...
carrie		Momma
margaret		...grinning and slobbering, trying to find out where the smell comes from, where the smell is. That... smell!
carrie		Please stop...
margaret		Yes, in cars. Yes. I know where they take you in their cars. Roadhouses. Music. Whiskey. I've seen it, all right. Oh, yes.
carrie		Momma, you better stop.
margaret		You're not going. 73
carrie		I've already said I would, Momma.
margaret		Then say no. Say no. Or we'll move.
carrie		No.
margaret		We'll move from here and you'll never see that boy again.
margaret		 The rain's coming in.
carrie		Momma, sit down.
margaret		I'm going to close the windows.
carrie		I'll get them. Please sit and talk to me.
margaret		No.
carrie		I'm going, Momma. And things are going to change around here.
margaret		Witch!
margaret		 It's Satan's power. First he entered your father, carried him off...
carrie		He ran away, Momma. Everyone knows that.
margaret		The devil tempted him.
carrie		He ran away with a woman, Momma.
margaret		All men are the same. That boy, he's like all the rest, he doesn't
carrie		I don't care. He asked me to go. And I'm going. I'm going, Momma. You can't stop me.
de lois		Hell of a risk for a joke.
billy		You want out?
de lois		 It's a good joke, Billy.
de lois		 Hey, piggie...
de lois		 You sure Old Man Henty won't be around? 76
chris		I told you. He's at a funeral.
billy		Shut up, Henry.
de lois		Whose funeral did he go to?
billy		His mother's.
de lois		His mother's? Jesus Christ, she musta been older than God!
de lois		 The bastard is going to shit where he stands when he comes back and gets a look.
billy		Asshole.
the boys		Soo-ee, soo-ee Pig-pig-pig... Soo-ee, soo-ee Pig-pig-pig... 77
de lois		Doan worry, piggies, doan worry. I'm gonna bash your fuckin' heads in, and you woan have to worry `bout the bomb no more.
billy		Shut up and do it already.
de lois		I will, I will. I'm not gonna give `em time to burp.
billy		The throat.
de lois		I... can't.  You.
chris		Do it, Billy.
chris		 Do it quick.
margaret		Red. I might have known it would be red.
carrie		 Only clearing the thread, Momma.
margaret		 It's Satan. 79
carrie		 Oh, momma.
margaret		He has given you a power.
carrie		Momma, it doesn't have anything to do with Satan. It's me. If I concentrate hard enough, I can make things move.
margaret		Satan is clever.
carrie		Momma, there are other people... people with the power... It's a part of me.
margaret		Satan...
carrie		If it were, I'd know it.
margaret		You poor child. He doesn't let you know he's working through you.
carrie		Momma, I'd know.
margaret		You are to renounce this power. You must give it up. You must never use it.
carrie		I'm going to do my homework, Momma.
margaret		There's going to be a judgement!
dissolve to:		80
chris		What's it like up there?  Billy!
billy		Boo.
chris		You stupid shit.
billy		 Nice talk.
chris		Hurry up. Do you hear me, just hurry up.
billy		 Yes'um. Yes'um. Weeze doing the best we can.
chris		I want to go home.
billy		Just keep your tits on and I'll let you pull it when the time comes.
chris		I plan to.
dissolve to:		82
carrie		Come in, Momma.
carrie		Do you want to pin it on, Momma?
margaret		I can see your dirtypillows. Everyone will.
carrie		Breasts, Momma, breasts. Every woman has them.
margaret		Take off that dress.
carrie		No. 84
margaret		We'll burn it together, we'll pray for forgiveness.
carrie		No, Momma.
margaret		He's not coming.
carrie		Stop it, Momma. I'm nervous enough.
carrie		Stop hurting yourself, Momma. That's not going to stop me either.
carrie		Go away, Momma.
margaret		You know I'm right. He'll laugh at you. They'll all laugh at you.
carrie		No. It'll be okay.
margaret		It's not too late. You can stay here with me.
carrie		No. 85
margaret		I'll answer the door and say you're sick, I'll say
carrie		Momma, sit on the bed.
margaret		I'll say that you changed your mind, I'll say
margaret		`Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.'
carrie		You'll say nothing, Momma. You are going to have to learn that I'm not like you, not anymore.
carrie		I'll be home early, Momma.
margaret		There's going to be a judgement! 86
carrie		Momma, you will be quiet until I'm gone.  I love you, Momma.
tommy		Hi.
carrie		It's like a dream.
tommy		You can still change your mind, you know.
carrie		Easier said than done.
tommy		 C'mon.
carrie		No. Please  not yet.
tommy		Scared? 88
carrie		Yes.  Can we sit here another minute?
carrie		Tommy...  Maybe... maybe this was a mistake.
tommy		Hey, it won't be so bad.
tommy		Really, I mean it. They're okay, you'll see.  I'd look awfully silly dancing by myself.
voice		Hey, Ross. Gawd, you look queer. 89
tommy		When did you come out of the treetops, Bomba?
george		Ross, if I'd known you were going to look this good, I'd have asked you instead of Frieda.
frieda		Don't let it bother you. If they destroy each other, I'll dance with you.
frieda		Hey, where'd you buy your dress? I love it.
carrie		 I made it.
frieda		 Made it? No shit.
carrie		No shit.
frieda		The mural's nice.
carrie		Yes.  I'm really nervous.
frieda		S'okay. We're sitting together.
norma		Carrie!  That's a lovely dress, Carrie. Wherever did you get it?
carrie		I made it.
norma		Well, of course you did. I can't get over it, you look so different. You're positively glowing. What's your secret?
carrie		I'm Don MacLean's secret lover.
norma		 Why, hello Tommy. Aren't you excited?
tommy		Cold sweat is running down my thighs in rivers.
norma		 Well, I have to hurry back. Stan'll think I got lost. 91
george		 Bom-ba!
norma		 And, Frieda, don't you look nice.
frieda		 Get douched, Norma.
george		Viiibes!
carrie		They're nice. George is funny. 92
tommy		He's a good guy.  Sure you don't want to dance?
carrie		Could we just sit here for a minute?
voice		Carrie?
carrie		You look very pretty, Miss Collins.
collins		Thank you  You too. Beautiful.
carrie		It's awfully nice of you to say so. I know I'm not... not really... but thank you anyway.
tommy		`scuse me.  Be right back, okay?
collins		 May I?
collins		Carrie, anything that happened before... well, it's all forgotten. I want you to know that.
carrie		I can't forget it.  But it's over with. It's over.
collins		I remember my own prom. I was two inches taller than the boy I went with when I was in my heels. He gave me a corsage that clashed with my gown. But it was magic. I don't know why. But I've never had a date like it, ever since. Is it like that for you?
carrie		It's very... nice.
collins		 Just nice?
carrie		No. There's more. I don't know...  ...it's like being on Mars.
collins		You'll never forget it.
carrie		I think you're right.
carrie		Thank you.
collins		Have a lovely time, Carrie. 94
tommy		 What are you doing with my date?
collins		Girl secrets.
tommy		Don't let me catch you hugging any guys.
carrie		You won't.
tommy		Better not. Hey, listen, do you really have to be back so early?
carrie		I promised.
tommy		Okay. I understand.
carrie		I'm sorry.
tommy		No, it's okay. Listen, the other kids are going over to Lewiston after the Prom
carrie		 That's okay.
tommy		What is?
carrie		You want to go with your friends. I don't want to spoil anything... 95
tommy		Hey, let me finish. What I was going to say, I mean if it'd be alright with you, what do you say we go to the Cavalier?
carrie		 I've never been there.
tommy		Hey, great. We'll have the place all to ourselves. Great!  Then it's settled.
carrie		 Tommy...
tommy		C'mon...
carrie		I don't... I can't... I...
tommy		You can.
tommy		Hey... 96
carrie		I'm sorry.
tommy		I...
carrie		It's just...
tommy		No harm, no foul.
carrie		I don't know... anything. I can't dance...
tommy		You danced.
carrie		I don't even know how to...
tommy		It's easy.
carrie		Tommy... why?
tommy		Why what?
carrie		Why am I here?
tommy		It's the prom. 97
carrie		With you.
tommy		Because I asked you. And...
carrie		Why? Why did you?
tommy		Because I wanted to.
carrie		Why?
tommy		Because...
tommy		...you liked my poem. Only I didn't write it. Someone else did.
carrie		Oh.
tommy		 Look, Carrie, we're here, we're together... and I like it, you know... I mean, I...
carrie		But...
tommy		Hey, look!
carrie		 It's a fairy tale.
tommy		 C'mon.
ernest		All right, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats, please  it's time for the voting.
norma		This contest is an insult to women!
george		It insults men, too!
ernest		 Please take your seats. It's time to vote for the King and Queen.
carrie		Tommy...  ...we're on here!
tommy		I know.  Want to decline?
carrie		Do you want to?
tommy		Hell, no. If you win, all you do is sit up there for the school song and one dance. And they put your picture in the yearbook so everyone can see we looked like idiots. Besides, it's the last year.
carrie		They're beautiful.
tommy		You're beautiful.
carrie		Who do we vote for? They're more your crowd than mine. 100
tommy		Whatever you like.
carrie		In fact, I don't really have a crowd.
tommy		Let's vote for ourselves. To the devil with false modesty.
tommy		Hurt yourself?
carrie		No.  But I broke it and it was a souvenir.
tommy		There's still your boat.  Toot, toot.
tommy		Hey, hey.
carrie		101
tommy		Don't know your own strength. Whew.
tommy		Hey, it's okay.
ernest		We've sort of hit a snag. Mr. Morton says this is the first time in the history of the Spring Prom that
voice		How far does he go back? 1800?
ernest		We've got a tie.
george		Polka-dot or striped?
ernest		Sixty-three votes for Frank Grier and Cora Wilson, and sixty-three votes for Tommy Ross and Carrie White.
ernest		Attention! If I could have your attention, please...
carrie		They're not applauding for us. It can't be for us.
tommy		Maybe it's for you.
billy		I thought you said they'd win.
chris		They will. They will. Won't even be close.
billy		If you screwed up...
chris		Don't worry. I called in a few favors. 103
norma		Good luck!
carrie		Don't.
tommy		What?
carrie		Don't vote for us.
tommy		In for a penny, in for a pound. That's what my grandmother used to say.
carrie		 Don't. Please.
tommy		For you.
tommy		Tonight you go first-class.
ernest		Tommy and Carrie win. By one vote.
ernest		Ladies and gentlemen, I give you he King and Queen of the Spring Prom  TOMMY ROSS AND CARRIE WHITE!
cut to:		107
morton		What're you doing here, young lady?
sue		 Something's wrong!
morton		I'll say there is.
billy		What's the matter with you? Pull it!
billy		 It can stay there until hell freezes over, Chuckie.
chris		 Billee!!!
billy		 Shut up!
collins		Oh, Carrie  let me help you.
collins		 Call the police!
george		Call a doctor! Hey, call a doctor, quick!
the beak		It's Carrie! It's Carrie!
carrie		 No.
billy		Goddamnit!
chris		Billy!!!
billy		Shut up! Just shut up!
carrie		 Momma? Momma?
carrie		 Momma?
carrie		 Momma, I'm home.
carrie		MOMMA!
carrie		Momma...
carrie		Momma...
carrie		Oh, Momma!
margaret		It says in the Lord's Book: `Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.'
margaret		And now the devil has come home. 122
carrie		 Momma, it's not right.
margaret		I should have killed you when you were born.
carrie		Momma, I love you. Please help me!
margaret		Sin never dies.
carrie		You. You tricked me. 123
sue		No.
carrie		Get out.
sue		We were just trying to...
carrie		Get out.
carrie		Get out! Get out!
carrie		Get out, get out, get out!
carrie		GET OUT!
eleanor		 Better. Sleeping too much, I guess, but Schneider says that's to be expected after what she's gone through. He says she's young enough to forget it in time. Knock wood.
eleanor		It's all right, it's all right, darling.
sue		Mother?
****Dialogues from script :Cars_2.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Case_39.txt****

girl		I can see you...
darla		-- and we know from yesterday that the base of a triangle times half the height equals the area.
darla		Yes, Mia?
girl		Lucy's asleep again.
darla		Let her sleep.
gang member		He would just go off, you know, start tearin' the place down. You didn't even know why he was doin' it half the time, you just got out of his way...
emily		And what you learned from your father now Diego's learning from you...?
emily		That really upsets you, doesn't it?
gang member		Yeah. Cuz I mean I don't want him to be like me.
emily		A whole week without skipping school? Is that true?
emily		That's the last time I make a bet with you.  See you guys next week.
emily		You cut your hair. It looks great.
emily		No one is trying to steal your child, they found bruises and cigarette burns -- Mrs Lynch, I read the medical report -- well, if you feel you need legal representation that's perfectly within your rights...
wayne		How many active cases you have?
emily		Thirty-eight.
emily		No, absolutely not, look at this, Wayne, look, I'm buried --
wayne		Sorry, Em, we all are.
emily		Don't fight. Hey, that's his.
doug's voice		Exhausted, her career path questionable, her faith in mankind shaken, she resisted her tendency toward introspection and went to have a drink with her friend Doug.
doug		I am so in your head.
emily		Be honest. The whole psychology thing, it's just about scoring chicks, isn't it?
doug		Regrettably, yes.
emily		You know what freaks me out?
doug		That you have a four-year degree and make seventeen grand a year after taxes?
emily		I sit there talking to these families, you know, like I'm some expert. My family's a train wreck. I mean, I had this moment today where I realized I might be totally full of it.
doug		Everybody's full of it. In the end you're a number to call for people who don't have anyone else. There's no way that's bad.
emily		Hey Becca...
friend		 Hey. So one of us is a major screwup, I can't remember if I was supposed to call you or the other way around...?
emily		No, it's me, it's just been a crazy couple weeks. You remember Doug.
friend		 Listen, my ride's leaving, let's catch up soon, okay?
doug		So anyway, I've done some soul searching and I just want to say that if a full-on relationship feels like too much right now, I'd be willing to consider a purely physical one.
doug		Hey, you might actually enjoy yourself.
emily		I'm sure I would, I just...
doug		I know, I know, the job, you get home you don't have anything left.
emily		If it were anyone, it'd be you.
emily		What are they doing to you?
woman's voice		What?
emily		Emily Jennings. Child Services? We spoke on the phone...?
margaret		You said the seventeenth.
emily		Today is the seventeenth.
margaret		Is not.
emily		I'm sorry, but it is.
margaret		Friday was the thirteenth.
emily		Friday was the fourteenth, that makes today the seventeenth. Monday the seventeenth. The date of our appointment.
emily		Come down, I'd like to meet you.
emily		My name's Emily. What's yours?
lucy		Lucy.
emily		Pretty name. Pretty girl.
emily		 Is there somewhere we can talk?
emily		When do you expect your husband back?
emily		Because we've found it's more beneficial if the whole family participates.
margaret		Well he's not home so...
emily		Do you have any way of contacting him?
margaret		Not if I don't know where he is.
emily		Is that...?
emily		Would you ask him to join us?
margaret		He doesn't have anything to say.
emily		Would you ask him?
emily		It'll be okay.
emily		Hi, I'm Emily --
emily		I'm here today because Lucy's school is concerned about changes they're seeing in her academic performance. The kinds of changes they're seeing are often associated with family problems.
margaret		Eddie says we don't have family problems.
emily		That's just it, many times a family won't even know they're having problems until it's too late. That's where we come in. We help families communicate and learn healthier ways of resolving conflict.
margaret		Eddie says we don't need your help.
emily		Mr Sheridan, is there some reason you won't speak to me directly?
emily		 Is there some reason why your husband won't speak to me directly?
margaret		Eddie doesn't like speakin' out of anger.
wayne		No laws against being weird, Em. Send it over to CMC, we'll do a follow-up in a month.
emily		I didn't say weird, I said scary. The guy sat there the entire time staring at me, the mother is like his emotional slave.
wayne		Wait, did you just fly to New York and meet my parents?
emily		Wayne, this girl's in trouble. I can feel it.
wayne		Wanna know what I can feel? The lawsuit we're gonna get hit with if we violate her parents' rights without any evidence they've done something wrong.
emily		Every time I talk to you you sound more like a lawyer, you know that?
wayne		Yeah, well, maybe because every time I make an emotional decision I get called by one. I'm sorry, you're gonna have to let this one go.
emily		You put these files in front of me and you ask me to tell you what's going on. Well, I'm telling you, there's something going on and it's not something good. I've done my job, I've told you, what you do with it is yours.
edward		They really are God's miracles. Day she was born was the happiest day of our lives. We're not perfect parents, we know that, but we figure if you let `em know how much you love `em a lot of the other stuff takes care of itself.
emily		 Tell me, Mr Sheridan, since you've suddenly acquired the power of speech, doesn't it concern you a little that Lucy's grades have gone from A's to D's in three months?
edward		Course it does, she's our daughter.
emily		So you have no idea why she's falling asleep at school every day? Why she's not able to sleep at home?
edward		Bad dreams?
emily		He's gonna be having bad dreams when he gets hit with child endangerment.  Don't tell me you're buying this daddy's little girl routine?
wayne		So they're overcompensating a little.
emily		A little? Let me talk to her. Alone. She wants to talk.
wayne		EM --
emily		Five minutes. Talk to them about how much they love kids.
emily		I knew someone at school named Lucy, she was a writer. Do you ever write? I do sometimes, it helps me sort out how I'm feeling.
emily		Okay, I just shot like a gallon of water up my nose. So much for establishing trust.
emily		What's happening to you? I can help. Let me help.
emily		What is it, sweetheart?
lucy		They hate me.
emily		I'm sure they don't hate you.
lucy		They do. I hear them. They go in the cellar and talk.
emily		What do they talk about?
lucy		Sending me to hell.
emily		You've heard them say that?
emily		It's okay. You can tell him. He's on our side.
wayne		Did you hear your parents say they were going to hurt you?
emily		She doesn't trust anybody. You think I made it up?
wayne		I think you'd do just about anything you had to do to help a child you thought was at risk. Here are the facts, Emily. They haven't laid a finger on her that we can tell. And we have no proof they intend to. Meanwhile on your desk right now are thirty-plus cases of actionable abuse. What about those?
emily		I'm not giving up on her, Wayne.
wayne		Yes, you are, you're leaving this alone.
emily		I hope you can live with a dead child on your conscience.
wayne		 That's a little unfair, don't you think? I care about these kids as much as you do, but we can't go around yanking them out of their homes on a hunch. Parents, even bad ones, have rights, that's how the laws of this great land are written.
emily		So that's it? We let kids get killed until they rewrite the goddamn laws?
barron		Was just thinking about you, got a nice letter from Sandy Hutchinson...
barron		Well, it's sitting in front of me which means our good friend Wayne thinks it fails to meet the criteria for child endangerment and has told you in no uncertain terms to leave it alone...?
emily		Surprise, surprise.
barron		I can't, Emily. I'm sorry.
emily		Mike, I'm desperate here.
barron		You know how dear to my heart the work you do is, but the department doesn't pay me to stakeout potential child abusers. Last time almost cost me my job.
emily		This girl heard her parents say they're going to send her to hell.
barron		Sickening as that is, you're a part of the system that handles those situations, I'm not.
emily		The system is broken.
barron		Maybe you just need to let it work.
emily		What? Jesus, I feel like I'm talking to Wayne. You don't want to get involved, fine, but don't bullshit me, I'm running out of people I respect.
barron		Okay. No bullshit. Give me evidence of a crime, I'll be all over it. Till then there's nothing I can do.
emily		I just wanted you to know I haven't forgotten about you. I'm doing everything I can.
lucy		If I disappear will you come look for me?
emily		You're not going to disappear.
lucy		If I do?
lucy		I have to go. They get mad when I miss the bus.
emily		Lucy, wait...
emily		If anything happens, call me, okay? Just press this. Don't let your parents know you have it.
emily		I'm gonna get you out of there, I promise.
answering machine		Hey, this is Doug, here it comes -
emily		It's me, thought you might be up, um, anyway, call if you get this.
emily		Too late, I met someone else...
emily		 Lucy? Are you okay?
emily		Why? Why are you scared, honey?
emily		Why are you sorry?
emily		Okay, listen, I want you to go over and open the window. Can you do that? Lucy...?
emily		Lucy, no, wake up!
emily		 Lucy...?!
emily		Mike, it's Emily, listen, that girl I told you about, I think she's in trouble - - yeah, I know what you said, but -- Mike, you're not listening --  HELP ME!
barron		What are we doing here?
emily		Saving her life!
barron		They're asleep.
emily		They're not asleep.
emily		Did you hear that?
barron		I didn't hear anything.
emily		Leave her alone!
emily		Did you hear that?!
barron		Police, open up!
emily		Break it down!
emily		BREAK IT DOWN!
emily		LUCY?!
emily		Oh my God...
barron		The hell's the matter with you people?!
emily		I gotcha... I gotcha... I gotcha...
state prosecutor		Prosecution asks that you disallow an insanity defense. This was an act committed with premeditation, malice AFORETHOUGHT -
public defender		Your honor, the egregiousness of the crime makes the competency question all the more relevant.
judge		Yes. I hereby order the defendants undergo psychiatric evaluation to determine their mental fitness for trial.
emily		Steal a pizza, San Quentin, try killing your kid, Freudian dream analysis.
barron		Well, you're gonna hate me for saying this, but my money's on crazy.
emily		Did they or did they not know what they were doing? That's the legal standard. They knew, they knew damn well!
barron		It's not that simple sometimes.
emily		 Meaning what exactly?
barron		When we brought them in that night they told Captain Lister... They think she's evil, some kind of demon spirit, minion of the devil or something.
emily		 Oh, that's great - what is this, late- night cable?
barron		No, but that might be the world they're living in.
doug		-- and what's the most important thing we talked about that you have to remember?
lucy		It's not my fault what happened.
doug		That's right and you know what? It's not.
doug		That is some seriously proactive social work happenin' there. You all right?
emily		Yeah, I'm okay. How's she doing?
doug		Typical reaction, blames herself. We'll get there. I'm gonna put her in a group setting, see if I can get her to open up.
emily		Group therapy for kids, what's that say about the world?
emily		Good news. You get to leave here tomorrow.
lucy		Doug said I might have to go to a state home.
emily		Only for a few days, till we find a better place.
lucy		Why can't I live with you?
emily		Oh, sweetheart. That would never be allowed.
lucy		Why?
emily		It's complicated, there's a whole process, I'm not even a foster parent...
emily		I'm sorry.
coordinator		They were supposed to call you. We don't have any rooms.
emily		Nothing?
coordinator		There was a mixup with the dates. Sorry.
emily		Hey, are you hungry? Let's get some lunch. What kind of food do you like?
lucy		There's nowhere for me to go is there?
emily		I can't, Lucy, it wouldn't work, I live in this tiny house, I... I'm sorry, I'm not mom material...
lucy		You don't have to be my mom. Just my friend.
emily		I know what it feels like to be that age and be unwanted. It's terrifying. She needs to be with someone she trusts; she trusts me. So much of our time is spent negotiating red tape, I think if we just look at the situation - this one situation, this one child - it's clear what's best for her.
nancy		This is highly irregular and I'll tell you right now it makes me very uncomfortable. But since, Wayne, you've spoken so persuasively on Miss Jennings's behalf...
emily		I like to think of it as a glass-half- full situation. Kitchen. Bathroom. Fish. And here, is your room...
emily		Be okay?
lucy		Where's your family?
emily		My family... well, I've met my dad twice and my mom's not a part of my life anymore.
lucy		Why?
emily		 Sometimes people have kids and then decide they don't want to be parents.
emily		I'm glad you're here.
lucy		What's this?
emily		Chamomile, when I get stressed out it helps me sleep.
emily		None of this ever should have happened, if I could make it go away I would.
lucy		You did.
emily		I'm right down the hall if you need me.
emily		I have to grab some of her things, might take me a minute.
court clerk		I trust ya, Em, make sure you lock it on the way out.
doug		Sometimes when our parents aren't getting along it's better if they don't see each other for a while, that's what a `restraining order' does...
doug		She's starting to come out of her shell. It's good, I just wish I thought it was me making the difference.
emily		I went by the house. I think her mom and dad were barricading themselves in their room at night. How sick is that?
doug		Hatred and fear are part of the same pathology - oh, but I forgot, you don't think they're crazy.
emily		I'm coming around.
emily		Okay?
emily		This is your new beginning.
lucy		I love you, Emily.
emily		I love you, too.
coworker		Wayne's looking for you.
emily		Got it.
emily		What's up with Diego?
wayne		Why don't we talk in my office.
emily		Tell me what's going on.
wayne		We don't know why yet, but... he killed his mother and father last night.
emily		What happened?
barron		Sure you want to see this?
barron		Gets a tire iron from the garage, comes back inside, locks all the doors and windows, kills them in their sleep...
barron		Had to use dental records to identify the bodies.
emily		An eight-year-old did this? There's no way.
barron		I was there when they brought him in. Took three guys my size to subdue him. Kid was climbing the walls.
barron		Just your average American family.
emily		Where is he now?
barron		Juvie lockup. And, no, I'm not taking you to see him.
emily		You want to know what happened?
barron		I know what happened.
emily		I don't. I need to talk to him. Mike, please, I care about this kid.
emily		Diego...
emily		Let me in. He won't hurt me.
diego		Are they dead?
emily		What happened? Tell me what happened.
diego		 I killed my mum and dad...
doug		Every family you sit down with every day of every week is a family in crisis. Those are your odds. That's the job you do. Trying to beat them.
doug		You're one person, Em. You can't save the world.  I know somebody you did save.
lucy		You okay?
emily		It's just work. Don't worry.
lucy		Why do you do it if it makes you sad?
emily		My job? I don't know, I guess... I guess maybe I want to believe families can work, so I can have my own someday, I don't know - does that make sense?
emily		 Breakfast.
emily		Honey, breakfa--
emily		Come on, let me see...
emily		You went through my things?
lucy		I'm sorry... I wanted to know what happened to you.
lucy		Is that your mom?
emily		She used to just leave, she'd just...  ...and I never knew when she was coming back, or if she was... I used to think it was my fault and I would try so hard when she got home to be good, do everything I could think of, so she'd think I was `special' and stay next time or take me with her, but... it didn't matter, she'd always go away again, that's how it was.
lucy		Where was your dad?
emily		Gone, he left before I was born. First time I met him I was like thirteen.
lucy		What'd you say to him?
emily		Oh, I had all these things I was gonna say. Angry things I'd thought of and kind of memorized. And um.... And then I met him and I wasn't angry, I was just sad and I told him...  I said, I love you, even if you don't love me.
lucy		Are you mad at me?
emily		No... No, I'm not mad at you.  But I need you not to do that again, okay? Go through my private things without asking?
emily		Omelet's getting cold. Better hurry.
wayne		 I need another set of eyes to go over them, make sure we haven't missed anything else.
emily		You mean, to make sure I haven't missed anything else?
wayne		It's just a legal thing. You'll have them back tomorrow.
barron		You watch, six months, their lawyer will hire some expert to say they're rehabbed and they'll sue for custody when they get out.
emily		She's not going back there, I'll take her out of state before I let them near her again.
barron		I didn't hear you say that.
emily		You wanted to talk about something?
barron		We pulled the Martinezes' phone records. They got a call that night before the murders.
emily		From who?
barron		 Emily, the call came from your house.
emily		What...?
barron		Look, I'm not accusing you of anything, I just need to know what was said.
emily		That's impossible. I might have called the week before...?
barron		I'm talking to you as a friend here, you know that, right?
emily		Did you not hear me? I'm telling you, Mike, as a friend, I did not call that family.
barron		Then who did? Go find the guy who broke in and just happened to dial the number of a kid whose case you handle.
lucy		He's in my group...  ...why, did something happen?
barron		We're trying to figure out why. He got a call Thursday night from this number. I'm just wondering if he might have said anything...
lucy		It wasn't me.
barron		You didn't call him?
barron		Lucy, it's hard sometimes to tell the truth, but I know you will because you're a good little girl.
lucy		I am telling the truth.
emily		My backup files are in your room. Diego's is in there. Maybe you got curious and went through some, dialed a number?
lucy		It wasn't me, I swear.
barron		The call was at 2 am, are you ever up that late?
lucy		I didn't call him.
barron		Are you ever up that late?
emily		Mike, she said no. Maybe someone made a mistake.
barron		Yeah, maybe so. Night, Lucy.
barron		She's lying.
lucy		Do you believe me?
emily		I believe you.
emily		Give me back my cases or fire me. Right now.
emily		I don't care if it's a hairline fracture, he broke her arm, I don't want him back in that house. He what? He found Christ? When? That recently? Uh huh. Well he should have found Him sooner.
emily		What's up?
doug		Copy of the Sheridans' psych evals for the file. And the cognitive profile Lucy did for me the other day.
emily		 How's it look?
doug winters		Normal.
emily		Do I have to beg or are you gonna tell me what's going on?
doug		You have to beg.  Coming from an environment like that, testing this normal is a bit abnormal, if that makes any sense.
emily		She's `abnormally normal'?
doug		I think she faked it, gave the answers she thought she should.
emily		Why would she do that?
doug		 It's no big deal, it just means I might have to push her a little.
emily		No, I know, I just... The Martinezes' got a call Thursday night. From my house.
doug		Did you ask her about it?
emily		She said she didn't. Mike thinks she's lying.
doug		What do you think?
emily		I don't know what to think.
doug		Hmm. Bring her in after work, I'll do a one-on-one. I wanted to talk to her about this anyway.
emily		Got you an extra in case it gets cold.
emily		I need to ask you something... about the night it happened... did you get a call, really late?
emily		You didn't?
emily		Diego, I know you did, they called from my house.
emily		What's the matter? What's scaring you?
emily		Oh God...
emily		It's okay... slow breaths... you'll be okay...  Can somebody help us down here?!
nurse		He asked to see you before you left.
emily		Who called you? Was it Lucy?
emily		Did she say something to you? Something that scared you?
diego		El dijo...
emily		`El' dijo? What do you mean, `He said'?
diego		Era un hombre.
emily		It was a man?
lucy		Do...  here?
emily		Well, photocopying isn't much fun.
emily		What...?
doug		Knock, knock. Sorry I'm late, guys.  Ready, kiddo?
doug		Go ahead down, I'll be right there.
doug		 You all right?
emily		This is weird. Diego said it was Lucy that called, but he called her a he, he said it was a man.
doug		So how's school?
lucy		Fine.
doug		Any of your classmates giving you a hard time?
lucy		No, they've been nice.
doug		Sleeping okay?
lucy		That's not really what you want to talk about, is it, Doug?
doug		You got me.
doug		Question 16a, are you afraid of the dark? You answered `no'. Question 16b, are you afraid of being alone? `No'. 16c, are afraid of your parents? `No'. You answered `no' to everything in that section. I think some of those should have been yesses. Everybody is afraid of something. Working through our fears, conquering them, is how we get better. So I want you to tell me... What scares you?
lucy		I'll tell you what scares me if you tell me what scares you.
doug		Fair enough. When I was twelve I was climbing a tree and I accidentally put my hand through a giant hornets' nest. They didn't like it. I got stung over a hundred times. They had to rush me to the hospital. I've been afraid of hornets ever since. Don't climb many trees either.  Everybody has fears. Now, what scares you?
lucy		Me.
doug		You scare yourself?
lucy		Sometimes.
doug		Why, what about yourself scares you?
lucy		I have bad thoughts.
doug		About what?
lucy		People.
doug		People in general or certain people?
lucy		Certain people.
doug		Like who?
lucy		You.
doug		You have bad thoughts about me?  Why?
lucy		 I just do.
doug		Was there something I said or did that upset you?
lucy		 It's just the way you are...
doug		How am I?
lucy		Facile.
doug		Facile?  Do you even know what that means?
lucy		Easily comprehended. Often lacking sincerity or depth. You're smug, too. Want me to tell you what that means?
doug		Well, if, um, if I seemed `smug' or `facile' I want to -
lucy		 Don't apologize.
doug		Why?
lucy		You're a grown up, it's embarrassing. 
doug		Talked to a lot of ten-year-olds, I don't think I've ever felt like that before...
emily		Like what?
doug		Threatened.  I know a specialist, I'll call him in the morning.
emily		What do I do with her in the meantime?
doug		Don't let her get in your head.
lucy		Are you mad at me?
emily		No. Just tired.
lucy		Want me to brush your hair?
emily		That's okay.
lucy		Are you sure?
emily		Some other time.
lucy		 It will make you feel better. I'll get the brush.
emily		I said no, thank you.
lucy		Doug said something, didn't he?
emily		No. Doug? He says you're doing great.
lucy		What did he tell you?
emily		Nothing.
lucy		You're funny.
emily		Get some rest.
lucy		You forgot to kiss me goodnight.
emily		Goodnight.
lucy		I love you.
emily		I love you, too.
doug		Hello?
doug		Hello...?
doug		Try again, sorry.
doug		FUCK!
emily		See you next week.
denise		Seen Doug? He had an appointment with one of my kids this morning, never showed up.
emily		Did you try calling him?
denise		All I get is voicemail.
answering machine		Hey, this is Doug, here it comes -
emily		Cover my desk.
emily		Doug, it's me, it's Emily...
emily		Doug?
emily		Doug, you here?
emily		NOOOOO!!!!!
emily		Dr Johannsen?
emily		You did the autopsy on Doug Winters?
coroner		 Winters -- oh, right, Douglas.
emily		How did he die?
coroner		Family?
emily		Friend.  I know the rules -- please, he meant a lot to me.
coroner		Compression fracture of the third and forth vertebrae. Severed his spinal cord. Actual cause of death was... suffocation.
emily		You're saying he did that to himself?
coroner		It appears all his injuries were self- inflicted, yes.
emily		Oh come on. He looked like he'd been beaten to death! Don't tell me he was some - some suicidal...  ...I knew him! He was my best friend!
coroner		Miss, I would never presume to know your friend better than you. But the injuries suggest he was trying to hurt himself. Unfortunately, he succeeded. I am sorry.
emily		Have you ever seen this before, somebody dying like this?
coroner		Truly, I am shocked every day by the violence people do to themselves.
lucy		You think it's my fault, don't you?
emily		It was an accident. It was nobody's fault.
emily		He was scared. He came out of that room with her, Mike, and he was scared. He said she threatened him.
barron		Listen. You're still in shock. Let's NOT --
emily		Diego said it was a man on the phone. You know who made that call. There was no one else in the house.  You think I don't know how crazy this sounds?!
barron		Look, I don't know, all I'm saying is a kid in his state of mind maybe isn't the most reliable witness.
emily		Why is he in that state of mind? Why was Doug? Pull my phone records. See if she called him.
barron		Emily. I already did. There were no calls from your house.
emily		Her mother and father, their bedroom door has these deadbolts on it, big ones, two of `em... Something came through that door and they didn't want it ever coming through there again.
interviewer		And by forcing your daughter into the oven, can you tell me, what did you think the outcome would be?
margaret		You mean what were we doing it for?
interviewer		Yes.
margaret		To kill her.
interviewer		Why?
margaret		God's will.
interviewer		And why was it God's will that you should kill your daughter?
interviewer		Why is that funny, Margaret?
margaret		`Cause she's not my daughter.
interviewer		You're her mother...?
margaret		I bore her, but she's not mine.
interviewer		Help me understand. If you and Edward are Lucy's biological parents, how can she not be yours?
margaret		`Cause she's not Of us.
interviewer		Not Of you?
interviewer		Who is she Of?
margaret		Not who, what.
interviewer		What is she Of?
margaret		Stop acting like you don't know what I'm talking about.
interviewer		You think your daughter is the devil?
margaret		Not him himself, Of him, working in his name, in his honor.
interviewer		Evil incarnate?
margaret		I don't care what you call it.
interviewer		And why do you think that?
margaret		Not what I think it's what I know.
interviewer		How do you know this? Could you give me an example?
margaret		She can make you see things. Visions.
interviewer		Visions of what?
margaret		Hell. Damnation. Whatever you're afraid of.
interviewer		I see. Any other `special abilities'?
margaret		People die around her, is that a special ability?
interviewer		She kills people?
margaret		Not by her hand, they just die. I had two brothers, Brent and Travis...
margaret		...and I mean they was healthy boys, healthy as can be. Eddie, three sisters. Soon as she was born they started dying.
interviewer		You blame Lucy for their deaths?
interviewer		Why do you imagine you were spared?
margaret		I guess she couldn't get rid of us till she found somebody else. Now that she has, I don't imagine we're long for this world.
edward		THE HELL DID I JUST SAY?!
interviewer		Edward, please calm --
edward		YOU AND YOUR GODDAMN QUESTIONS! YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT!
edward		IT'S NOT CHILD KILLING IF SHE'S NOT A CHILD!
chief psychiatrist		...Woke up screaming, absolutely convinced she was on fire. She wasn't, of course, they managed to sedate her. But it's curious, she displays all the symptoms of a burn patient. Except the burns themselves...
chief psychiatrist		In no condition for visitors as you can see. If you'd like, I could let you see Mr Sheridan?
emily		Okay.
emily		I know I'm probably the last person you want to see right now, but you're...
emily		You're the only one I can talk to. Lucy's been staying with me -
edward		Who died?
emily		A friend.
emily		I, ummm...
edward		You're scared.
edward		You oughta be.
edward		You judged us before you ever walked in that house. Sat there in our living room tellin' us about our problems, how to be better parents - certain of everything and dead wrong about all of it.  Ask what you came to ask.
emily		What is she?
edward		Can tell you what she's not. She not a daughter of mine. She's not a ten-year- old having trouble in school. She's not some innocent victim whose door you busted down and life you saved. And she's not going no place, lady, till she's good and done with you.
emily		Done with me how?
edward		However she wants. You think it's an accident her ending up with you? She saw you coming a mile away.
emily		Why me? I don't have anything.
edward		You have that you're good. Kindness. Decency. That's what she feeds on. Bleeds ya dry, moves onto the next. We were a big family, she went through us like a wrecking ball. And you know, every time something happened, every time, we had an excuse for why it wasn't her fault. Cuz it's easier to lie to yourself than think bad things about your baby girl. But finally we got to a point where me and Maggy looked at each other -  - where we looked at each other and we was out of lies, both of us. Most terrifying moment of our lives. And that's where you are now.
edward		I'll tell you this. She sees everything. And what she doesn't see she just sort of senses it, like when you call a friend and they pick up before it rings? 
emily		What does she want?
edward		To know... what your idea of hell is... and make you live there.
edward		I'm not a hateful man. I look at you and I wish I could tell you you're through the worst of it. That it's gonna work out for you in the end. I wish I could.
emily		What should I do?
edward		How strong's your faith?
emily		Nancy...?
nancy		Emily, I heard about Doug. I'm so sorry.
emily		 Do you have a minute?
nancy		How's it working out with the Sheridan girl?
emily		Actually, that's why I'm here. I appreciate what you did for me, Nancy, I really do, but I think it'd be best if she was placed in foster care.
nancy		She is. You're it.
emily		I know, but it's not working out.
nancy		Playing mommy isn't the laugh-a-minute you were hoping, huh?
emily		I suppose not.
nancy		Sorry, you petitioned for custody, you got it. She's your responsibility.
emily		Until when?
nancy		Till we find a suitable foster home.
emily		How long is that going to take?
nancy		You're asking me questions you know the answer to. Three to six weeks. Surely you can manage that long.
emily		I don't want her anymore. I'm done. That's it.
nancy		Now you look. I put my reputation, quite possibly my career, on the line for you. Don't embarrass me. You make this work.
emily		How do I make it work if it's not working?
nancy		However! Find a way!
hardware clerk		That what you're looking for?
emily		 Thanks.
lucy		Hi.
emily		Hi.
lucy		You weren't there so I took the bus.
emily		Sorry, work - lost track of time.
lucy		It's okay, I know how busy you are.
lucy		Doesn't matter anyway, the bus stops right at the end of the street. So I can always get home, whether you're there or not.
emily		Lucky.
lucy		Where's the phone?
emily		Oh, it wasn't working...
lucy		Wow. That one, too.
lucy		Can I have a shower? We had gym today...
lucy		Are they being nice to her?
emily		Who?
lucy		My mother.
emily		How - how would I know that?
lucy		I thought you said you were going to see her.
emily		I never said that.
lucy		Hm. I must have dreamt it.
emily		I don't care, Robin, anywhere. Just find somewhere that will take her. Tonight. I don't want this girl in my house.
lucy		Good night.
barron		Emily...?
emily		Mike.
emily		`No such thing as a bad kid, only bad parents.' I always believed that. It's a lie. Her parents aren't crazy.
barron		You wanna end up where they did keep talking like this.  I'm not judging you. You're grieving for Doug and you're still confused about what Diego did.
emily		Aren't you?
barron		Diego grew up in a bad home, he saw violence and he repeated it, that's the cycle, you know that better than anyone.
emily		Why did she lie about calling him?
barron		`Cause she's a liar, that doesn't mean she made him do it. Look, let me tell you what Lucy is. Lucy is a damaged child, a deceitful child, a manipulative child. But a damaged, deceitful, manipulative child is not a demon. Ask my brother-in-law, he's got a couple of `em.
emily		Mike, you know I'm not crazy. Don't run away from something just because it scares you.
barron		I stopped you on the steps. I think maybe you oughta go all the way in.
nancy		Who do you think you are barging in there like that?!
emily		I don't want her in group anymore, I don't want her around the other kids.
nancy		Well that's not your decision, is it?!
lucy		It's okay, Nancy, Emily's been under a lot of stress lately, but she's really nice to me and I hope I can stay with her a really long time.
nancy		We'll talk about this later.
lucy		See you next week, Nancy.
emily		You're never going back there.
lucy		Why, Emily?
lucy		Why, Emily? Why, Emily? Why, Emily?
lucy		Why, Emily? Why, Emily?
emily		W-w-what's happening - ?!
lucy		Can I go back to group next week?
emily		You're never going back there!
lucy		Are you sure?
emily		No...
lucy		I can see you.
lucy		Don't be sad. This is your new beginning.
emily		Mrs Lynch, I told you - will you let - that's not what I said - no, I did not - you never sent me the - Mrs Lynch - will you let me respond? - will you let me - Mrs Lynch - will you let -
emily		SHUT THE FUCK UP YOU MISERABLE MISERABLE WOMAN BEFORE I GET IN MY CAR AND COME OVER THERE AND BEAT YOUR ASS LIKE YOU BEAT YOUR SON! I HAVE YOUR ADDRESS! THINK ABOUT THAT NEXT TIME YOU CALL AND SWEAR AT ME! I KNOW WHERE YOU LIVE!
wayne		Um, so, I notice you haven't taken any personal days. Come on, you look like crap, go home.
emily		I don't want to go home.
becca		Emily...
emily		I know I haven't been a great friend lately, but... do you think maybe I could crash here for a couple of nights?
becca		Sure, when?
emily		Tonight and tomorrow.
becca		Em, any other weekend you know I'd say yes, but I just met this guy and he's coming over tonight like for the night and it might be, you know, kinda weird.
emily		LEAVE ME ALONE!!!
emily		Help me! Please!
emily		Let me on!
emily		She's coming! Please!
emily		Drive!
bus driver		There's nobody out there.
emily		DRIVE!
bus driver		There - is - nobody - out - there!
boyfriend		 No, I like it. It's like those things they put baby cows in to make veal -
wayne		What?
wayne		Em...?
wayne		Emily...?
wayne		Jesus - are you okay?
emily		 I... I had some things to catch up on...
wayne		You look like shit, you need to see a doctor.
emily		I saw a doctor.
wayne		What did they say?
emily		 They said mind your own fucking business!
emily		Wayne...?
emily		Hello...?
emily		Robin...
robin		What are you doing here so late? I tried calling you. I found someone to take Lucy.
emily		 You did?
robin		Anaheim couple. They've helped us out before.
emily		 Oh God...
robin		What's the matter?
emily		I can't. I'm keeping her.
emily		If I get rid of her, if I put her into the system...
edward		 She starts all over again somewhere else. Can't let her stay, can't let her go. That leaves you with one option.
emily		I can't, Edward, I --
edward		You have to. You have to find the strength. Don't you understand? That's why she's doing this. To test you. Test your faith.
emily		I don't have any faith.
edward		How `bout anger. Got some of that?
emily		How... how do I...?
edward		Kill her? In her sleep, assuming you can...  Tell you what I'd do different. Count myself dead at the outset. Accept that going in and use it to my advantage. That's the one thing I don't think she'd see coming, someone giving up their own life to take hers.
emily		 Mike...?
edward		Where is she now? Some family somewhere?
interviewer		Why does that concern you, Edward?
edward		`Cause you have to warn them.
lucy		I like it here. I like you. You want me to like you, don't you?
lucy		You have to do what I say. If I say I want to go to group, you have to do it. If I say I want a new dress, you have to do it. If I say I want ice cream every day after school, you have to do it. Okay?
lucy		They did what I said for a while and then they stopped and started with the secrets. But they weren't really secrets I guess...  ...because I always knew what they were thinking.
margaret		Don't leave me.
young nurse		It's okay, Maggie. I'll check on you later.
lucy's voice		I'm happy you're getting the help you need, daddy.
barron		I know...
barron		There's something I want you to hear. Came in at two o'clock last night. You might wanna sit.
barron		You're right. She called Doug. Took me an extra couple of days to get your cell phone records. That's what she's been using.
emily		She's taking me apart, Mike.
barron		I'm gonna help you get to the bottom of this.
emily		 He told me I have to kill her.
barron		I'll help you.
barron		Whatever it takes.
barron		I'm gonna put Beth and Tim in a hotel. Keep her at the house.
doctor		Physically you're fine. How's the stress?
emily		I'm not sleeping, I was hoping you could give me something.
doctor		Take one of these, you'll sleep.
barron's wife		Why won't you tell me what's going on?
barron		Because I can't.
barron		Take care of your mom.
emily		Lucy...?
emily		Oh my God...
emily		Who is this...?
emily		No... he's...
emily		I have to go.
emily		What did you do to him?
emily		WHAT DID YOU DO TO HIM?!
lucy		He did it to himself.
lucy		Europa. Ganymede. Io. Callisto. The moons of Jupiter. We got back our astronomy tests today.
emily		Get out of my house.
emily		GET OUT!
lucy		Don't yell at me. My mom and dad used to yell at me.
emily		Stay away from me!
emily		STAY AWAY FROM ME!!
lucy		 What are you doing, you silly pumpkinhead?
lucy		 You don't want me to come under there and get you, do you?
lucy		 I'm going to count to three. One...
emily		No...
lucy		 Two... Two and a half...
emily		Please...
lucy		 Two and three quarters... Three...
lucy		Here I come.
emily		WHAT DO YOU WANT?!!
lucy		What you wanted from your mother. I want you to love me.
emily		Okay... okay, I will, I will, I promise.
lucy		Come tuck me in.
emily		Okay... I'll be right there.
lucy		You better come.
lucy		Chamomile.
lucy		Maybe you should have it, you look stressed.
emily		I'll have one later.
emily		Tomorrow's our new beginning.
lucy		I'll be good.
emily		I know.
emily		Get some rest.
lucy		Say it.
emily		I love you.
lucy		Forever and ever?
emily		Forever and ever.
lucy		Where are you if I need you?
emily		Right down the hall.
emily		Sweetheart...?
fire marshall		Everybody get out okay?!
fire marshall		This your house?!  Ma'am...?!
fire marshall		Anyone else inside?! Yes or no?!
lucy		That was mean.
lucy		Maybe we can find a hotel with a swimming pool.
lucy		It's sad, isn't it? How it gets passed on. How people do to their own kids what their parents did to them. That's why you got the job...
lucy		...To prove to yourself you're not like her, that you're not like your mother. Because that scares you. Scares you more than anything.
lucy		I love you... even if you don't love me.
lucy		What are you doing? Slow down.
lucy		Did you hear me?
lucy		I said slow down!
lucy		Please, stop, Emily, I'll be good.
lucy		Look out!
lucy		What are you doing?!
emily		It's not real.
lucy		Yes, it is!
emily		Are you scared?!
lucy		STOP!
emily		ARE YOU SCARED?!
emily		I'M NOT!!
passerby		Right through the guardrail, never touched the brakes...
paramedic		Don't look at her, okay? Just don't even look.
news reporter		A remarkable story of survival this morning as a young girl is pulled from the Los Angeles reservoir in an accident police are calling suspicious...
emily		Where is she? Where'd they put her? Foster care? Is she with a family? You have to let me talk to them...
emily		Do you hear me?!
bailiff		Set.
lucy		Why can't I live with you?
retired woman		Oh, darling, we're not foster parents, we just help out when the system's full.
retired man		They'll contact us, Lucy, when your placement comes through.
retired woman		Some nice family that always wanted a little girl.
caseworker		Going to the thing Saturday?
supervisor		I don't know.
caseworker		Oh, you should. It'll be fun.
supervisor		Maybe I will, I don't know. We'll see.
caseworker		Bye, Janey.
supervisor		See you tomorrow.
****Dialogues from script :Casino.txt****

sherbert		 ...And this is Ronnie, who takes care of the card room...
nicky		Past the jag-off guard who gets an extra c-note a week just to watch the door.  I mean, it's routine. Business as usual: in, out, hello, goodbye. And that's all there is to it. Just another fat fuck walkin' out of the casino with a suitcase. Now, that suitcase was goin' straight to one place: right to Kansas City ...which was as close to Las Vegas as the Midwest bosses could go without gettin' themselves arrested.
piscano		Hey, John, how are you? How was your ride?
nance		Somethin' smells good.
piscano		Yeah, they made us somethin' to eat.
borelli		Did you ever see that guy Jerry Steriano?
forlano		Jerry Steriano?
borelli		Yeah.
piscano's mother		That man's here again.
piscano's mother		 Here you are, gentlemen.
gaggi		You got a round figure on it?
nance		 About twenty pounds.
gaggi		So?
nance		That's around seven hundred thousand.
gaggi		Uh-huh, good.
andy stone		 I know it's a little early for Las Vegas...
stone		This is a very auspicious occasion.
stone		Philip, if you would rise.
stone		On behalf of the Teamsters' Pension Fund, it is my pleasure to present to you . . .
stone		 ...this check for $62,700,000 for the new Tangiers.
green		Thank you.
green		...I say that, knowing full well just how much competition we have in this great city.
ace		You know, I don't know if I could do this even if I wanted to. The Gaming Commission would never give me a license. I have at least two dozen gambling and bookmaking pinches on me.
stone		You don't have to have a license to work in a casino. All you gotta do is apply for one. The state law says you can work in a casino while they're processing your application. They got a ten-year backlog.
ace		But what happens when they do find out?
stone		Why would they want to find out? We're puttin' a hundred million into this desert here. Why would they want to lock us out?  And besides, they'll never find out. All you gotta do is keep changing your job title. Like, uh, from Casino Executive to Food and Beverage Chairman. And what happens it, they take your application, they put it at the bottom of the pile. I know guys workin' there for thirty years, don't have a license.
ace		 It's a tough proposition, Andy. You, you know, if I did it, I'd have to run it my way.
stone		You got it.
ace		I'm serious. No interference.
stone		Nobody's gonna interfere with your running the casino. I guarantee it.
ace		 Place the checks properly. That's the way you do it.
dealer		Yes, sir.
ace		I'll take Columbia for twenty.
lucky larry		Twenty dimes on Columbia . . .
gaggi		 Ma che cazzo!
gaggi		That's enough now!
gaggi		Va fa 'n culo! [Italian-American slang for 'Fuck off']  Johnny!
nicky		 Hey, did you bring that thing?
gaggi		Ace.
gaggi		Son-of-a-bitch. How the hell did you get Oklahoma-Michigan?  Nobody ever had Oklahoma-Mi... How the hell'd you do it?
ace		Well, that's why they paid so well.
gaggi		You see?  Never tells me nothin'. Ace, what do we got on for next week?
ace		Well, it's a little too early. I'd say Thursday would be good. I'll know by then. Is that all right?
gaggi		Okay. You come by the house?
ace		I'll come by.
gaggi		Seven o'clock?
ace		Seven o'clock.
gaggi		Good job, my boy. Keep it up. Okay, Ace?
gaggi		 Hey, Nick. Vien acca. [Italian- American slang for 'Come here']
nicky		 I'll be right out.
gaggi		T'aggia parla. [Italian-American slang for 'I've got to talk to you'] Nicky... See that guy? 
nicky		Mm.
gaggi		Keep a good eye on him. He's makin' a lot of money for us. And he's gonna continue makin' a lot of money for us, so keep a good eye on him.
nicky		Mm.
gaggi		Not like your fuckin' friends out there, that... without brains.  Okay?
nicky		All right.
gaggi		Uh-huh. Mi raccomando. [Italian- American slang for 'I'm counting on you']
nicky		Yeah.
gaggi		Fine.
joe		 Chase, couple of shooters for the ladies.
nicky		 They payin'?
marino		They pay every week, like they're supposed to.
nicky		Then where the fuck is the money? I don't see the money.
ace		Hi, Melissa. Heidi.
blonde		Hi, Sam.
joe		 Who's this guy?
marino		 Get the fuck out of here. It was nine. I laid nine.
nicky		It was eight.  Ace... tell him the line on the Bear's game.
ace		Eight.
nicky		If he don't know, nobody knows. Told you it was eight.
marino		Well, how come I laid nine?
nicky		'Cause you're a jag-off. I would have fuckin' made you lay ten...
ace		 Excuse me.
joe		What?
ace		 Is this yours? Your pen?
joe		Yeah, that's my pen. Why?
ace		I ju- Well, it's a nice pen. I just didn't know whose it was. I thought it was yours. I didn't want it to get lost.
joe		Well, thank you. Why don't you take that fuckin' pen and shove it up you ass, you fuckin' jag-off?
ace		Well, I was just offering you the-
joe		 This fuckin' asshole.
nicky		What's that? You hear? You hear a little girl, Frankie? You hear a little girl, Ace? Is that a little fuckin' girl?!  What happened to the fuckin' tough guy?  Told my friend stick it up his fuckin' ass?! Huh?! Huh?!
ace		 Wait a sec, Nicky, Nicky, Nicky. Ta- take it easy.
ace		 Pay him six hundred a week, tell him to walk around and look smart.
ace		Ward, you gotta keep a cleaner station. If you need 'Mr Clean', page him, all right?
ward		It won't happen again, Sam.
ace		Mr Rothstein.
ace		 Is this guy just another dumb fuckin' white man, or what? What's his story?
sherbert		We need this guy.
ace		We can't get rid of him?
sherbert		He's juiced in. He's the County Commissioner's cousin.
ace		I wouldn't give the bum a mop job.
senator		Hi, Ace.
ace		Hello, Senator.
senator		 Hey, I need a room. Need a room.
ace		Good to see ya.  William would you...
sherbert		Nice to see you, Senator.
ace		 Help the Senator, give him whatever he wants.
sherbert		Certainly.  Senator.
sherbert		We have some nice penthouses you'll enjoy. Maybe the Presidential Suite.
ace		Nice to see you again.
sherbert		Ken, I don't know what the hell went wrong. I'm awfully sorry.
ichikawa		This is a big problem. Big problem.
sherbert		I can't understand it. These mechanical things, you know, they happen. Hey, be-better here than  up there, you know what I mean?
agent		I'm so sorry. There's a convention in town, and all flights are booked.
sherbert		A convention?  I can't believe that there's a convention. It's never... ?
ichikawa		What can I do?
ace		I'm sorry you missed the plane.
ichikawa		You want to get my money back, right? 
ace		No, no, no. No gambling. No.
dealer		The bank wins a natural eight over a five.
dealer		Six, an easy way. Six! All right, who's gonna give me...
dealer		...both dice must hit that back wall each and every roll. All right, make a six!
woman		Gimme a six!
dealer		Come on, baby, make a six!
high roller		Come on, come on.
ginger		Yes!
high roller		Thank you. Very nice.
ginger		 I told you I was hot tonight.
high roller		 Let's go. This is for Ginger. Come on. This is for Ginger.
high roller		I'm sorry.
ginger		Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.  Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ginger		Thank you, sir, I appreciate that. Everybody, thanks. Gives some chips as tips to the dealer and box man. Thanks. Take care, Steve. Take chances and drive fast.
high roller		Ginger, honey.
dealer		Thank you very much, now.
high roller		Ginger, honey, this is for you love. Thanks for your time.
ginger		 Come on.
high roller		What's the matter?
ginger		What do you mean, 'What's the matter?' I made a lot of money for you. I want my cut.
high roller		What money? I've seen you stealing from me.
ginger		What money?  Look at this stack of chips. Don't give me that shit. I want my end.
high roller		Ginger, I've been watching you all night. You've been stealing from me.
ginger		Don't give me that shit. I want my money.
high roller		That bag's full of fuckin' chips you
ginger		 What do you mean 'stole'? I didn't steal anything from you.
high roller		Get lost, Ginger! Get lost!
ginger		Get lost?
high roller		Yes.
ginger		Get lost?
high roller		Yes.
ginger		Well, how 'bout that?
high roller		Come on! 
ginger		I'm going to go powder my nose. 
ginger		I'll be right back.
ginger		Okay, thank you for asking.
ginger		 Hello.
valet parker		Hey, Ginger, how you doin'?
ginger		Great.  And I have something for you. You got me covered?
valet parker		Yes. Something for you, there.
ginger		And you do. Thank you very much.
valet parker		Take care of yourself.
ginger		I got some lucky pills for you, honey.
ace		Any change?
ginger		 I hit a few... uh, games on the way back.
ginger		 How you doin' tonight?
cashier		Good. How are you?
ginger		 Oh, beat.
cashier		Okay.
ginger		Take one for you.
cashier		 Thank you.
cashier		 Sixty-eight hundred.
ginger		Thanks
cashier		You're welcome.
ginger		You have a good night.
cashier		Thank you. You too.
ginger		Hey, Mitch.
ginger		Thank you.
ginger		Thanks a lot.
shift boss		Thank you, Ginger.
ginger		 I need that stuff tonight.
ginger		You're a doll.
lester		Look, Gin, you know I got other people in this. I got partners. But I want you to understand that I am lookin' out for you in this thing.  Okay? You're going to get yours back... and you're gonna get it back first. Okay?
ginger		All right.
lester		Okay?
ginger		Yeah.
lester		Where are you goin'? Where are you? You're in that place. Where are you?
ginger		I'm here.
lester		No, you're not. Where are you? Where are you?
ginger		I'm always here for you.
lester		You are.
ginger		I am.
ginger		Good luck.
lester		Yeah.
ginger		Careful.
nicky		 You find any cash in there, we'll whack it up with you.
jennifer		 Excuse me, but I folded these things beautifully and I would appreciate a little respect. Jesus Christ!
nicky		Don't look at me, pal. I gotta live with her.
jennifer		Oh, yes. Will you help me fold these, please?
jennifer		 You go and put your things away.
marino		Whoa, whoa, whoa.
nicky		Hold it, hold it. Here.
jennifer		Come on. There we go. Look at that. Beautiful.
jennifer		All right, we're clear.
nicky		There's more!
jennifer		I think that's it.
nicky		There's more! There's a couple stuck in there. I know there's more.
jennifer		God, I'm telling you, they're out!
nicky		Come on, damn it. Don't get so defensive. It could be stuck in your hair, you know.
jennifer		Look, there aren't...  There aren't but...
nicky		Oh, there aren't?  There's no more. Thanks, hon.
ace		 Hey.
jennifer		Hey, how you doin'? 
nicky		Hey. Hey, Sammy, how are you?
jennifer		 Wow.
nicky		Boy, look at this place, huh?
jennifer		Incredible.
nicky		All right.
ace		Welcome to Vegas.
nicky		Okay, Sammy.
ace		Somethin', huh?
nicky		Yeah.
ace		 Ginger.
nicky		 Holy shit, what've you been doin' out here?
ace		Honey, come here.
ace		This is Jennifer and Nick. They're dear friends of mine.
jennifer		 Good to meet you.
ginger		Hi, Jennifer.
nicky		Pleasure.  Very nice to meet you.
ginger		Hi, how are you?
nicky		Okay, Sammy.
nicky		What do you think about me movin' out here?  What's the matter? You got a problem with that?
ace		No, of course not.
nicky		 You mean, I have your permission?
ace		Sure, you have my permission. But I - I just gotta tell you it's no joke out here. It's no joke, you know? You gotta keep a low profile. It's not like back home. Right off the bat, they don't like guys like us. And this sheriff's a real cowboy. Even the coppers aren't afraid to bury people out in the desert here.
nicky		I don't care. I want to get away from back home for a while. I'm tired of that shit back there.  Look at this place. It's made of money. You know what the best part is? Nobody's gonna know what we're doin'! There's nobody here to see us! Everybody's back home.
ace		Nick, I gotta tell you, I got pinched twice for no reason. You really gotta be careful. I'm running a licensed place. Everything's legit.
nicky		Don't worry about it. I'm not gonna do anything. What am I gonna do? I'm especially not gonna involve you in anything.
nicky		You call this guy and tell him I'm comin'?
marino		Of course.
nicky		Tony.
tony		Hey.
nicky		How you doin'?
tony		How you doin'?
nicky		All right, yeah. You got that thing for me?
tony		What thing? Oh, Nicky... I thought you was layin'.
nicky		I was layin'? No, no, I'm taking it. I was takin' it.
tony		You sure?
nicky		I'm positive.
tony		Well, I'm a little confused here.
nicky		You're a little confused?
tony		Yeah.
nicky		 Maybe if I stick your fuckin' face through this window over here like, you know, you'll - you'll get unconfused. Give me the fuckin' money!
tony		 I'm sorry, Nicky. I didn't mean anything by it.
nicky		Yeah, I know, that's why you had it ready. You thought I was fuckin' layin' it?!
tony		 My fuckin' head.
nicky		Your fuckin' head, huh? Don't fuck around, Tony.
marino		 Smarten up.
nicky		 You jag-off.
classroom nun		...Nicholas Santoro will come up and tell us about our first president.
little nicky		 George Washington was born in a...
little nicky		...typical Virginia farmhouse.
detective johnson		 Beautiful. You got a beautiful swing.
detective johnson		Now, I want you to get out there and get me singles and doubles, okay? 'Cause that's what's gonna win this game.
detective johnson		Now go out there and show your dad what you can do.
detective johnson		You know, he's gotta realize everything can't be a home run that he does.
nicky		Yeah, well, that's exactly what I keep tellin' him, but that's the kind of kid he is ever since he's born.
detective johnson		It's instinctive, you know.
nicky		He tries to do everything...
nicky		Ohh!
jerry		 Hey, Nicky. How are you?
nicky		Hey, Eddy.
eddy		Hey, Nicky, how are you? What are you doin' here?
nicky		I'm over here now.
jerry		You're over here?
nicky		Yeah, I'm over here with him.
eddy		Oh.
jerry		Oh.
eddy		We're waiting on Carmine.
jerry		Yeah, we're lookin' for Carmine.
nicky		Carmine? He was here before. I saw him. He had a suitcase and everything, and then he left.
eddy		Carmine left?
nicky		Uh-huh.
jerry		Carmine left?
eddy		He's gone?
jerry		He's not here?
eddy		Carmine's gone.
nicky		I think, you know, maybe he went across the street or somewhere else or somethin'. I don't know.
eddy		Well, listen, uh... Good luck with the joint, huh? 
nicky		Oh, thanks, Eddy.
jerry		 Yeah, lots of luck. Lots of luck.
nicky		Hey, great, Jerry.
nicky		Good luck to you too.
credit clerk		 Hey, they forgot to sign their papers.
nicky		What?
credit clerk		They forgot to sign their papers.
nicky		Yeah, they don't need those anymore.
ace		This is Mr R. Get me Armstrong and Friday over at pit two right away.
ace		 BJ nineteen, second base, the beard [Blackjack table number 19, second position, man with the beard]
ace		 Operator... I need Mr Happy, loud.
waitresses		 Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday, dear Jeff. Happy Birthday to you.
signaler		Hey, hey, what are you doin', man?
signaler		 Oh, God! Oh!
signaler		Hey, no! No! No!
ace		 I'm just curious. I saw you shuffling your checks with your right hand. Can you do that with both hands?
signaler		No.
ace		Can't do it with both hands?
signaler		No, Sir.
ace		Can you do it with your left hand?
signaler		Well, I... I never tried.
ace		So, you're a righty?
signaler		Ye-yeah.
ace		Now, you're gonna have to learn with your left hand.
signaler		God! 
winner		...a hundred ten.
cashier		Yes, it is.
winner		I think.
cashier		Yes.
winner		Okay.
sherbert		Hiya. That's a lot of money to be counting out in public.
winner		Yeah.
sherbert		 Why don't I take him over to the office and verify it, huh?
cashier		Yes.
sherbert		A little privacy. And, by the way, send over a... nice bottle of champagne on ice, huh?
cashier		Sure will.
sherbert		Real special.  Somethin'...  By the way...  I'm Billy Sherbert, your casino manager.
winner		Hi.
sherbert		Having a good time?
winner		Yes, uh...
sherbert		You'll want to count the money in privacy. You know, you don't need...
winner		Uh, I have a plane to catch to Cleveland...  Can I get my winnings?
signaler		Look what they did to my hand, man!
ace		 All right, I'm gonna give you a choice. You can either have the money and the hammer or you can walk out of here. You can't have both. What do you want?
winner		I just wanna get out of here.
ace		And don't forget to tell your friends what happens if they fuck around in here. You understand?
winner		I'm sorry. I made a bad mistake.
ace		You're fuckin' right, you made a bad mistake. 'Cause if you come back here - we catch either one of you - we're gonna break your fuckin' heads and you won't walk out of here. You see that fuckin' saw?  We're gonna use it. You don't fuck around in this place. You got it?
winner		Yeah.
ace		Get out of here.
winner		Thank you.
ace		 Throw him out in the alley.  And just tell the cops he got hit by a car.
ace		We're not getting any younger. Don't you think it's time? Aren't you gettin' tired of all this shit? Bangin' around, hustlin' around?
ginger		What, are you trying to handicap me?
ace		I'm gonna do you one better. I'm trying to marry you. You want to marry me?  I'm serious. I mean, I - I want to settle down. I want a family.
ginger		 You got the wrong girl, Sam.
ace		I know I'd be a good father. I know you'd be a good mother.
ginger		You don't know me. What, you've known me, two, three months. What do you know?
ace		I'm forty-three years old. I don't want to wait. I know you well enough to know that I really love you very much.  And I can't think of anybody better to be with. And I don't feel like waiting anymore.
ginger		You know a lot of happily married people, Sam? 'Cause I don't.
ace		Yeah, I know all that.
ginger		I care about you, a - But I just don't have those kind of feelings for you. I'm sorry. I'm not in love with you.
ace		 I - I - I...
ginger		Understand?  I'm sorry.
ace		No, I - I... mean...  that can grow as I - as long as there's a mutual respect... that kind of thing can grow. I'm realistic. I can accept that. But, you know, what is... What is love anyway?  It's a... it's a mutual respect. It's - it's a devotion. It's a... it's a caring from one person to another. And if we could set up some kind of foundation...  based on that mutual respect...  I feel that eventually you would care enough about me... that I could live with that.
ginger		If it doesn't work out. You know, if it doesn't play out, then what happens to me?
ace		You know I'm doin' well now. And I'm gonna do even better. And so, whatever happens, if it doesn't work out between us, I'm gonna make sure you're okay for the rest of your life. And if there are kids, especially, you know, I'll take care of you better than you'd ever imagine.
ginger		 What're you... what're you pitching me, here?
ace		Just what I said. You'll be set up for the rest of your life. That I can promise you.  Want to take a chance?
lester		 Can you feel my eyes on you? Can you feel me look into your heart?  Can you feel me in the pit of your stomach? Can you feel me in you? In your heart?
lester		Don't make me come there. Answer me.
ginger		 I love you.
lester		 Bub-ut, baby, do you know that I love you too?
ginger		 No, Lester.
lester		 Do you know that?
ginger		 Yeah. This is the best thing I can do for my life right now.
lester		 That's right.
lester		 So, it's gonna be okay, isn't it?
ginger		 Promise?
lester		 God... I wish you...
lester		 ...all the luck in the world.
ginger		 You do?
lester		 Yeah, I do. I mean, it's - it's the - it's the best thing you can do right now. I mean this. And you'll have real security.  Sweetheart... you're gonna be situated just right in Vegas.
lester		 Come on, this is great for us. You know I'm gonna be here for you. I ain't going no place. Huh?  I'm lookin' at you right now. I'm seein' you for the very first time, right this minute. I'm seein' you, and I can feel my heart click. I see you fourteen years old. I see you the first second I ever saw you. I see you, long-legged little colt -
lester		- with stupid braces on your teeth.
ginger		 Okay, then.
lester		 Every time I ever see you, that's what I see.
ace		You all right?
ginger		 Yeah.
ace		Why're you crying?
ace		Maybe you shouldn't drink so much.
ginger		I'm okay. I just -  You just have to understand. I've been with Lester since I was a kid. I just wanted to say goodbye. I - I just...  I don't... I think I have a right to do that. Okay?
ace		It's all right. That part of your life is over with. Right?
ginger		Yeah.
ace		You're with me now.
ginger		Yeah.
ace		Right?
ginger		Uh-huh.
ace		You sure?
ginger		Yeah. Yeah.
ace		Want to go? Let's go back in.
ginger		 Okay.
ginger		Oh...
ginger		 It's great.
ginger		Oh, it's great.
ginger		 Oh! It's all my stuff. Oh, my God.
ginger		You brought all my stuff. I can -
ace		Try it on. It's yours.
ginger		 You're kidding? My God. What is it?
ace		It's chinchilla.
ginger		 Oh, it's so soft.
ace		It's nice isn't it?
ginger		Oh...
ginger		No one's ever been so nice to me.
ginger		 Oh, my God.
ginger		So, do you think it's too much if I wear these in the same day?
ace		You do whatever you want. Do I keep my promises, or do I keep my promises?
ginger		You're so wonderful. The jewelry's not so bad, either.
ace		The only thing is... you shouldn't keep this in the house. We gotta put it in a bank.
ginger		 Come on. Can I keep this one in the house?
ace		Now look,  pay attention to me. What I'm gonna tell you is very important.
ginger		Okay.
ace		All this stuff doesn't mean anything. Money, this, doesn't mean anything without trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life.
ginger		Need a little help with that, Mr Collins?
banker		Now this is just a signature card.
ace		So, once she signs those papers, she'll be the only person to have total access to the box?  No one else, including myself?
banker		That's right.
banker		That's the way you wanted it, right?
banker		 Sam, let me ask you a question. You must really trust your wife.
ace		 Yeah, sure I do. Why?
banker		No, tha-that's good. It's just unusual. To tell you the truth, so many of my clients don't.
ace		Well...
marino		 Don't make us come lookin' for you.
mike		Oh, you won't have to look for me. I appreciate it. Thanks, Nicky.
nicky		All right, Mike.
moosh		 I'm gonna open for five hundred.
rocky		Moosh, you open? 
card shark		I bet thirty-five hundred.
doctor dan		I've been losing for three days straight, non-stop.
rocky		Oh, why're you crying, with three loaves of bread under your arm?
nicky		Four aces, Doc.
nicky		What do you got?
doctor dan		 Jesus Christ. I can't believe it.
doctor dan		If I didn't have bad luck, I wouldn't have any luck. I'm out of here, you understand?
ace		 Be careful. Gaming agents are all over the place.
nicky		So, I'm lucky. I'm not allowed to get lucky in this place?
ace		You been lucky all week. They're lookin' to nail ya.
ace		 I don't give a shit who he's connected to. Tell him to take his fuckin' feet off the table. What's he think this is, a goddamn sawdust joint?
sherbert		Sir, would you mind taking your feet off the table and putting your shoes on, please?
cowboy		 Yeah, I would mind. I'm havin' a bad night.
sherbert		 Fuckin' asshole won't budge.
ace		Call security.
ace		How are you?
cowboy		Good. How are you?
ace		Good. You want to do me a favor? You want to take your feet off the table and put your shoes back on?
cowboy		Fuck you.
ace		 I want you to exit this guy off the premises, and I want you to exit him off his feet and use his head to open the fuckin' door.
cowboy		Bullshit, I ain't goin' anywhere with you!
cowboy		Fuck you! Fuck you!
cowboy		You know who you're fuckin' with?! Huh? Do you?!
cowboy		 You fuckin' faggot! Do you know who you're fuckin' with?
cowboy		Leave me alone!
nicky		 Ace, what happened over there? I mean, did you know that guy you threw out was with me?
ace		 No, I didn't know that. But you know what he did?
nicky		 No.
ace		 He insulted Billy. And then I walked over to him politely...
ace		 ...and he tells me to go fuck myself.
nicky		 What?
ace		 Then he called me a faggot.
ace		 So what do you think I do? I threw that cocksucker out.
nicky		 Hey, come here.
nicky		You called my friend a faggot? You tell him to go fuck himself?
cowboy		Nicky, I did -
nicky		Is that what you did?
cowboy		I did - I didn't -
nicky		Tell him to go fuck himself? You fuckin' hick!  Fuckin'...
nicky		 ...you big fuckin' hick, you. Come here. Come here. Get him up. Come here.
marino		 Get up.
nicky		 Come here, come here.
marino		Get up.
nicky		You go over there right now and you apologize. You better hope he lets you back in.
nicky		 If you ever get out of line over there again, I'll smash your fuckin' head so hard...
nicky		 Sammy, listen...
nicky		 ...this guy obviously doesn't know who he was talkin' to, you understand? He doesn't...
nicky		 ...know that, uh, we're dear friends. I mean, he's already very sorry. But, uh, if you could do me a favor to let him back in, I swear to you he'll never get out of line again. I promise you that.
ace		 If he does it again, he's out for good. I don't care what it is, Nick, I'm gonna ha- I'll - I'll never let him in the place again.
nicky		 I'm sorry about this. Really.
nicky		 All right, Ace?
ace		 Okay.
nicky		 Thanks, pal.
nicky		You took your boots off? You put your feet on the table... you shit- kicking, stinky, horse-manure-smellin' motherfucker you!  You fuck me up over there, I'll stick you in a hole in the fuckin' desert! You understand?  Go! Get the fuck out of -
cowboy		Nicky, I'm sorry.
ace		 What's the reason for this?
stage manager		Mr Rothstein, sir, let me put her on suspension.
ace		Never mind the 'sir'. Never mind the 'sir'.
stage manager		Well, sir, I was just...
ace		Why is she eight pounds over?
stage manager		...trying to offer you the respect that your...
ace		I...
stage manager		...position...
ace		'Mr Rothstein' is good enough.
stage manager		Mr Rothstein... well, sometimes, when you reach that pressure point, when you put that pressure point on them, you know, it shows...
ace		She could at least lose half a pound or a quarter.  Listen...
stage manager		...and she doesn't always -
ace		...all you do is give me answers. Just - just give me the right answer.
stage manager		But, sir. Well, I don't know why. I guess, maybe, because she's frightened that if she doesn't lose the weight she may even get fired.
ace		That's right. She will get fired. In fact, I want you to send her back to Paris.
stage manager		It's always been our policy -
ace		No. Just stop everything.
sherbert		 This woman's an institution.
ace		I don't care what she is. She's an institution, that's the problem. She's lazy.
ace		You better watch yourself. There's a lot of heat on you already.
nicky		Why, somebody's complaining?
ace		I'm - I'm hearin' things from security. They're all ex-cops. The Sheriff's lookin' to bust your balls. They want to put you in the Black Book.
nicky		That Black Book is a bunch of bullshit. They got two names in there for the whole country and one of them is still Al Capone.
ace		Bullshit or no bullshit, they put you in that book, you're gonna be in a lot of trouble. You will not be able to walk into the casino. I'm tellin' you.
nicky		What am I doin' out here? I'm tryin' to make a livin', that's all.
ace		I'm just tellin' you. Don't say I didn't warn you.
nicky		All right.
green		Sam has established himself as an indispensable member of the gaming community. As the head of the Tangiers Gaming Corporation, it's my pleasure to welcome Sam Rothstein to the Vegas Valley Country Club.
ace		 It's with great pleasure that I accept this certificate of appreciation from the...
ginger		Thank you.
ginger		He worked so hard.
ginger		 Hi. Nice to see you.
ginger		Thanks.
ginger		Thanks. Yes, all right.
executive		Congratulations, Sam.
ace		 Oh, thanks.
executive		Hello, Mrs Rothstein.
ginger		Hi.
executive		How are you?
ginger		Oh.
executive		You're one of the most gorgeous women I've ever seen. You're a lucky man Mr Rothstein.
ace		Thank you. Thanks for that compliment.
ginger		 Put your arm in there.
ginger		 Oh, fabulous.
ginger		Look at this. Look at this.
ward		Loose machines are right back over there.
ace		What are they doin' way back there? Bring 'em up here where they belong. You can't even see 'em over there.
ward		Okay, I'll -
ace		What about the progressives with the high jackpots? Where are they? These machines are hidden.
ward		Well...
ace		These are our best machines. They bring all the action. No wonder the drop is off.
ward		Yeah, okay.
ace		The action is in the front, not in the back. Bring 'em up front.
ward		All right, I will, I will.
ace		Listen to me very carefully. There are three ways of doing things around here. The right way, the wrong way, and the way I do it. You understand?
ward		I do understand that. I'll get right on it. And thank you.
ace		Don't thank me, just do it. You're the Slots Manager. I shouldn't have to tell you this.
ward		Dang, you are right, Mr Rothstein, I am so sorry.
jennifer		 So, what'd you say to that fuckin' jerk anyway?
ginger		 I told him I was Mrs Sam Rothstein.
jennifer		 Well, you might as well get somethin' out of it.
nicky		 What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
nicky		 Do you believe this shit?
ace		 Yeah, I believe it. You got banned.
nicky		 'Who is of notorious and unsavory reputation...'
nicky		Motherfucker.  Unsavory fuckin'... Is there any way around this?
ace		Nope, there's no way.
nicky		Let's say... for instance... I want to go in the restaurant which happens to be in the casino... to get one of those sandwiches I like?
ace		Forget it. You can't even set foot in the parking lot. That's how serious it is.
nicky		In other words, I'm fucked.
ace		In so many words, yes.
nicky		I gotta do somethin'. I gotta do somethin'. They ain't gettin' rid of me. They're not gettin' rid of me. I'm staying here. Fuck 'em. Fuck 'em.
nicky		 What's takin' so long over there?
marino		This peter's a motherfucker.
hardy		 It's workin'. Just keep workin' it. It's comin'.
nicky		Gotta learn how to open these fuckin' things so you won't have to take 'em.
nicky		Frankie, some of these stones got a lot of niggers in 'em.
nicky		Tell that fuckin' Pepe if he's switching stones on us, he'd better take a fuckin' camel -
nicky		- back to  Yeah.
hotel receptionist		 Listen...
hotel receptionist		 ...they're in Penthouse K.
nicky		 They check in alone?
hotel receptionist		 They checked in alone.
nicky		 Are they out now?
hotel receptionist		 Yes, don't worry.
nicky		 All right.
nicky		 Thanks.
bellman		 This one looks good. But you got to hurry.
marino		 Yeah...
marino		 ...yeah, okay.
valet parker		 They're just checking in now.
fusco		 Okay, I'll tell him.
pit boss		 Yeah, room twelve-thirty, at the Sirocco.
marino		 Twelve-thirty, right.
secretary		 It's all in mint condition coins.
hardy		 Mint condition. All right.
hardy		 Car's comin'.
store owner		 I just got a shipment of diamonds from Israel...
marino		No, no, there's no flaws in it.
marino		You better clean your fuckin' loupe. 'Cause there's no flaws in these diamonds.
marino		What, are you gonna have a fuckin' meeting here, or are you gonna buy some diamonds?
marino		Forty thousand dollars, you can buy the whole package.
marino		 Let's talk turkey here, how 'bout twenty-five thousand?
marino		 She asleep?
nicky		Every night, on the couch.
nicky		Give all the guys in your crew a piece of that?
marino		I took care of everybody.
nicky		Yeah?
charlie clark		Yeah, that works out.
charlie clark		You need to understand, and I - I'm sure you do... that in a venture of this kind, you have to be prepared to take some kind of loss.
nicky		Oh, listen, I understand that there's always a risk... you know, I might have to take a loss somewhere.
nicky		I mean, you will try to push it through, won't you, Mr Clark?
charlie clark		Yes.
nicky		Well, you gotta understand, I'm giving you fifty thousand cash.
dominick		 Is that the last one?
cook		Yeah.
dominick		 Fuckers!
dominick		Here you go, guys.
dominick		Yeah... yeah, enjoy.
dominick		Have a good time.  Choke on it, ya motherfucker!
dominick		Hey, how you doin'?
nicky		 Hey, Rich.
nicky		Listen, that show over at the Flamingo gets better and better.
steve allen		By the way, Sammy said whenever you have a minute, give him a call.
nicky		Made a messenger out of you too, huh?
steve allen		 I'll do anything for a buck.
nicky		He does it. He does it to everybody. Enjoy your dinner.
jayne meadows		 Thanks.
steve allen		Okay, thanks.
nicky		 You walk past me?
marino		Hey. This is Shelly.
nicky		Hey, Shelly. 
shelly		Hi.
nicky		How are you? Nice to meet you.
marino		 And this is Stacy.
nicky		Stacy. 
marino		 This is Nick.
nicky		Pleasure.
stacy		Hi, Nick.
marino		We're gonna have dinner. Come on.
nicky		All right, uh,  Let's just check the kitchen first. Excuse us one second. Come on, I'll show you.
nicky		I get bread from back home. I get fish from California. And you can always tell a great kitchen like ours because of the milk-fed veal. That's the secret.
nicky		See, milk-fed veal is pure white. Out here, they got that pink veal. Slide over, honey.
nicky		Now, pink veal, you can pound that shit for two days and it'll never get tender, you know what I mean?
al		When I left here with the money...
nicky		Mm.
al		...I got muscled on the street.
nicky		Mm.
al		A couple of guys, I owe them. So, that's what I did. I gave 'em the money.  That's what I did.
nicky		Yeah?
al		Yeah.
nicky		You call yourself a man? You know you're a lyin', low-life, motherfuckin' gambling degenerate prick? You know that's what you are? Two small kids at home. I gave you money to pay the fuckin' rent and buy groceries, put the heat on. You know your wife called Frankie and told him the fuckin' heat's off?
nicky		Huh? And you didn't gamble that fuckin' money? You're gonna stand here and tell me that?
nicky		No, no? You didn't?
al		I didn't give 'em the m-
nicky		Don't fuck with me, Al! Don't make a fuck out of me! You want to embarrass me and make a fool out of me?!  You didn't gamble?! Tell me you gambled the fuckin' money, I'll give you the fuckin' money to put the fuckin' heat on! Did you gamble?! Huh?!
nicky		Fuckin' degenerate, you.
nicky		Fuckin' kids at home!  Here.  Get the fuck out of here.
al		Thanks, Nick.
nicky		Yeah, thanks.
nicky		Let me find out you fucked up, I'll leave you wherever I find you.
nicky		 How many of these you gonna eat, huh?
little nicky		Two.
nicky		Two?
nicky		 Here, let's put a little of this on for you. I know you like this. A little butter, right, not a lot?
little nicky		Mm-hm.
nicky		You know why, right?
little nicky		Yeah.
nicky		Why?
little nicky		'Cause it clogs up your heart.
nicky		What a smart kid you are!  Okay, eat.
marino		Remo.
gaggi		Hey, Frankie.
marino		How are you?
gaggi		Fine, fine.
marino		Nicky sends his warmest regards.
gaggi		Uh-huh. Good.
gaggi		And how are things going down there?
marino		Fine. Everything's goin' good.
gaggi		...I want all the names of all the other people he had with him. And I don't care what you have to do to him to get 'em. You understand?
marino		I'll take care of it, Remo.
gaggi		E mo va! [Italian-American slang for 'Now, go!']
nicky		This fuckin' guy, he got some stamina, don't he?
nicky		Personally, I don't give a fuck who was with him anyway. As long as he gives me a name I could give to them.
nicky		You better hope he gives me a fuckin' name soon, or I'm gonna give him yours, Frank.
marino		 Yeah, thanks a lot.
nicky		 I know you would have ratted by now.
nicky		Dogs. Dogs, can your hear me, Dogs?
nicky		Listen to me, Anthony. I got your head in a fuckin' vise. I'm gonna squash your fuckin' head like a grapefruit if you don't give me a name. Don't make me have to do this, please. Come on. Don't make me be a bad guy. Come on.
tony dogs		 Fuck you!
nicky		 Fuck me?
nicky		Fuck me, you motherfucker?  Fuck my mother? That's what you fuckin' tell me?
nicky		Huh? You motherfucker, you, huh?
nicky		Oh, God! Give me the fuckin' name!
tony dogs		Ch-Charlie M!
nicky		Charlie M?
tony dogs		 Charlie M.
nicky		 Charlie M? You make me pop your fuckin' eye out of your head to protect that piece of shit? Charlie M? You dumb motherfucker!
tony dogs		 Kill me, you fuck, kill me.
nicky		Kill you,  Frankie, do him a fuckin' favor.
nicky		Charlie M!
ace		Four reels, sevens across, three fifteen-thousand-dollar jackpots? Do you have any idea what the odds are?
ward		Shoot, it's gotta be in the millions, maybe more.
ace		Three fuckin' jackpots in twenty minutes? Why didn't you pull the machines? Why didn't you call me?
ward		Well, it happened so quick. Three guys won. I didn't have a chance to call you.
ace		You didn't see the scam? You didn't see what was goin' on?
ward		Well, there's no way to determine that, Sam.
ace		Yes, there is. An infallible way! They won!
ward		Well, it's a casino. People gotta win sometimes.
ace		Hey... Ward, you're pissin' me off. Now, you're insulting my intelligence. What do you think, I'm a fuckin' idiot? You know goddamn well somebody had to get into those machines and set those fuckin' reels.
ace		The probability on one-four-reel machine is a million and a half to one. On three machines in a row, it's in the billions.  It cannot happen... would not happen, you fuckin' momo! What's the matter with you!  Didn't you see you were bein' set up on the second win?
ward		I really think you're -
ace		 You - Wait! You didn't see that you were being set up on the second win?
ward		I really think you're overreacting in this whole -
ace		 Listen, you fuckin' yokel, I've had it with you. I've been carryin' your ass in this place ever since I got here. Get your ass and get your things and get out of here.
ward		You're firin' me?
ace		I'm firin' you? No, I'm not firin'  I'm firin' you, you -
ward		You might regret this, Mr Rothstein.
ace		I'll regret it even more if I keep you on.
ward		This is not the way to treat people.
ace		Listen, if you didn't know you're bein' scammed, you're too fuckin' dumb to keep this job. If you did know, you were in on it. Either way, you're out!  Get out! Go on.  Let's go.
ace		I mean, the guy is history as far as I'm concerned. History.
green		But you can't just fire him. Webb's his brother-in-law. He's County Commissioner.
ace		So what? Everybody out here with cowboy boots is a fuckin' county commissioner or related to a county commissioner. I'm fuckin' sick of it.
green		This is his state. His uncle's Chief Judge. His brother-in-law runs the County Commission. I don't know how many other relatives he's got in town.  There's gotta be a way to work him back in.
ace		Phil, I can understand. You're in the finances, you're upstairs, but you are not on the floor. I got thousands of players. I got five hundred dealers.  They're all lookin' to rob me blind, twenty-four hours a day. I have to let them know I'm watching all the details, all the time; that there is not one single thing I will not catch as I am over here.
ace		Look at yours.
green		What?
ace		Look at that. Look at this. There's nothin'... look how many blueberries your muffin has and how many mine has. Yours is falling apart. I have nothing.
green		What are you talking about?
ace		It's like everything else in this place. You don't do it yourself, it never gets done.
green		Where you goin'?
ace		 From now on I want you to put an equal amount of blueberries in each muffin. An equal amount of blueberries in each muffin.
baker		You know how long that's going to take?
ace		I don't care how long it takes. Put an equal amount in each muffin.
ace		Come on, honey, just a little. That a girl, that a girl. Oh, boy, look.
ace		 Okay, want to go with Mommy?
ace		What do you need?
ginger		 Well, I need a lot. I need more than usual.
ace		Well, why don't you take it out of your account? There's a lot there.
ginger		Well, I would, you know, Sam. It's just that... well, I need more than that. I need twenty-five thousand.
ace		Twenty-five thousand? For yourself?
ginger		 Yeah.
ace		Why do you need that much?
ginger		Well, what's the difference? I just need it.
ace		Well, I mean... you know, I gotta ask you. That's a lot of money. You're not asking for a box of popcorn, you know. I mean...
ginger		I'm aware of that. We don't have to turn this into a big deal.  Okay? We don't have to have a fight. It was important to me. But forget it. Just something I wanted to do for myself.
ace		Who's fighting? I mean, I'm, you know, tell me what it's for.
ace		Why can't you tell me what it's for?
ace		Huh?  Well, you know what? Now, I want you to tell me. I mean, my wife comes to me and asks me for twenty-five thousand. I mean, what do you want? Do you want a coat?
ginger		No.
ace		Well, if you want a coat, you got it. You know that. It's not the money, it's just why do you want it?  That's all I'm askin'. Am I not entitled to that?
ginger		Look - Sam, I've been independent my whole life. I never had to ask anybody for anything. Now you're making me beg you for this.
ace		What are you talkin' a- ?
ginger		 Okay? And you're embarrassing me. Why do want to make me feel so bad?
ace		You're askin' me for twenty-five thousand. I'm not out to make you feel bad. I want to just be able to trust you. You now, it's about trust. I have to be able to trust you with my life. Do you understand? Can I trust you?  Can I trust you?... Can I trust you?... Answer me. Can I trust you?
ginger		 You can trust me.
ace		Good, so then you could tell me what the money is for.
lester		What does that mean? No, I know that look. What does that mean?
ginger		It means I got the money.
lester		You got money. That's a - That's a good look.
ace		How you doin', Les? It's Lester, right? Sam.
ace		From my recollection, aren't you the card shark... the golf hustler... the pimp from Beverly Hills?
ace		If I'm wrong, please correct me, 'cause I never knew you to be a heist man.  But if you are, you know what... here, take mine too.
ace		Go ahead, take it. 'Cause you already have hers.
ace		She's my wife.  Look at me. You did know that, didn't you? You knew that she's my wife? Huh? Hey, look at me.
lester		Yeah, yeah. I know that.
ace		You do? Yeah? Well, if you ever come back again... ever... to take her money... next time bring a pistol. That way you got a chance. Be a man, don't be a fuckin' pimp. Now, you want to do me a favor? Get out of here. I want to be alone with my wife. Get the fuck up and get out of here.
lester		 Okay.
ace		You fuckin' piece of shit.
lester		Hey, that's just fuckin' - That's bullshit. You know, you know, what the fuck?
ace		You remember when you called him that night? When you said goodbye to him?  He didn't say, 'Don't get married, I'll be right down, we'll get married.'  He didn't say that to you, did he?
ginger		 No, he didn't.
ace		 Didn't. No, instead, what did he say? 'Fuck him. Take him for everything he's got.'
ace		Come here, I want to show you somethin'.
ginger		No! No! No! Don't!
ginger		Make them stop it!  No! No! No! It's not his fault! It's my fault!
ginger		 No! No!
lester		 Fuck!
lester		Fuck you!
lester		 Couldn't do it yourself, you chickenshit cocksucker!
ginger		 He's such a prick. He had some guy from the hotel beat him up. He didn't want to do it himself. Oh, no, he didn't want to get his own hands dirty.
ginger		So, why'd he have to do that, huh?
ginger		Tell me.
nicky		I know it wasn't a nice thing to do but -
ginger		 Yeah, no shit.
nicky		Well, you gotta understand it. He doesn't know if this guy is shaking you down or taking advantage of you.
ginger		No! No! I told him all about the guy before we ever got married. This is no fuckin' surprise.
nicky		Oh, you did? I didn't know that.
ginger		Yeah. He's just a friend of mine I was trying to help, so... so what?
nicky		You know... the first time I ever saw your guys together... I never saw him so happy. I mean, I know he's a crazy Jew fuck and everything, but...
nicky		I never see - You know, I never seen him act like that with anybody else. I think he's crazy about you. I mean, he really loves you. He does.
ginger		Oh, come on. I went into this with my eyes open, you know. I knew the bottom could drop out at any time. I'm a working girl, right?  You don't think I'm gonna go into a situation like this if I don't think I'm gonna get covered on the back end.
nicky		Sure.
ginger		Am I right?
nicky		I can see that. Sure.
ginger		So, he put aside some jewelry for me. A lot of jewelry.
nicky		You mean, like a lot of expensive jewelry? About how much?
ginger		Mm, you want to steal it? 
nicky		No. I - I'm just curious, you know. I was wonderin' how much he would put into a thing like that. That's all.
ginger		I'm told it's worth about a million dollars, maybe more. 
nicky		Well, there you go. But what does that tell ya? A million dollars in jewelry. Does that tell you the guy is crazy about you, or what?
ginger		I should have never married him. He's a Gemini. A triple Gemini... duality.  I mean it.
nicky		I know what you mean.
nicky		Listen, Ginger... you know, this is probably not... I don't have the answers anyway... and this is probably not what you want to hear right now, because you're a little upset with Ace.
ginger		I do.
nicky		I understand that. But, you know, I think you should try to make the best of it now. Go slow, you know. See what happens.
ginger		He could have killed him! Okay? He could have killed him.
ginger		He didn't have to hit him. It's not exactly like I'm sleepin' with the guy! And he makes me sneak around to see my own friends! What the fuck is that all about?
nicky		Well, I guess it's 'cause he loves you so much. He's jealous and worried.
ginger		 He gives a fuck what I do?
nicky		 Look, I'll try to find out what the hell's goin' on. When I see him I'll talk to him.
ginger		Okay.
nicky		All right?
ginger		Yeah.  Thanks.
ginger		Thanks for puttin' up with me.
nicky		And take it easy with this shit, will you? I mean, this can only make matters worse.
ginger		Oh, come on.
nicky		You're a beautiful girl. You don't want to ruin your looks. I've seen a lot of girls get shot to hell from this stuff.
nicky		Come on, now, I don't want to see you unhappy.
ginger		 Thanks.
nicky		Yeah.
ginger		 Thank you.
nicky		 It's all right.
secretary		 Mr Rothstein? County Commissioner Pat Webb is here to see you.
ace		 Okay...
ace		 ...give me a minute.
secretary		 Okay.
secretary		 It'll just be a minute.
secretary		Mr Webb...  Can I get you anything?
webb		Oh, no.  No, thank you, little lady.
ace		 Okay, send him in and call me four minutes after.
webb		Mr Rothstein...  I'm Pat Webb.
ace		How do you do?
webb		Hey, it is my pleasure.
ace		Yeah, I heard a lot about you.
webb		Oh, thank you, sir.
webb		Hey, house is doin' well.  Hey, all that money is rollin' in. I appreciate you takin' the time to see a poor ol' civil servant.
ace		No, that's quite all right.
ace		Why don't you have a seat?
webb		Hm? Oh. Thank you, sir.
webb		Uh, I come here personally to kind of smooth over a fracas about a certain matter. See, uh, maybe you didn't know it, but, uh, Don Ward is a very well-liked man in this town. He's got lots of friends here. Now, his family and their money go back many, many years. Now, friends vote... family and money votes. That's important to me... and you. And if you'll think about our little problem along them lines...  and you forgive me for sayin' it, maybe he did not deserve to be fired.
ace		I'm sorry, but he knew about our gettin' hit on three big machines in a row and he did nothing about it. That means either he was in on it or, forgive me for saying this, he was too dumb to see what was going on. Either way, I cannot have a man like that workin' here.
webb		Before we point the dirty end of the stick at 'ol Don, uh, we better be sure we can prove them charges.
ace		Believe me, if I could prove it, he would be under arrest.
webb		Are, uh -  - are we certain that you want the Gamin' Control Board eyeballin' your record and your gangster pals like Nicky Santoro?
ace		I think you're way out of line talkin' to me like that. What you're sayin' is libelous, and you're in no position to challenge my expertise. I went way out of my way to be very helpful and courteous to that kid. He's weak, he's incompetent. He jeopardizes the whole place. There's not much more I can do for him.
webb		 But, he is my brother-in-law, and I would look on it as a personal favor if you'd think some more on hirin' him back.
ace		I can't do that. And I appreciate the fact that he's your brother-in- law, and I do want to help you and I like to do favors, and I know who you are, but I cannot do that.
webb		Well, could there be any position... further down the trough?
ace		 I'm sorry, I can't do anything. He's too incompetent. And the bottom line is, he cannot be trusted.
ace		 Um... you know, that's it. I'm sorry.
webb		Mr Rothstein. Your people never will understand the way it works out here. You're all just our guests. But you act like you're at home. Let me tell you somethin', partner... you ain't home. But that's where we're gonna send you if it harelips the Governor.  Thank you for your time.
ace		No problem.  Sorry.
webb		 You bet.
ace		What happened to my pills?
ginger		Huh?
ace		 Isn't it bad enough you're drinkin' too much, you're takin' all my pills too?
ginger		I didn't take your pills.
ace		Look - for my ulcer, I take a half a one of these, a half a one of these. And that's when I have extreme pain. I had a three-month supply. What'd you do with 'em?
ginger		 You didn't have to beat him up!
ace		 What?
ginger		 I was just tryin' to help him. It's not like I'm sleeping with the guy!
ace		Yeah, how do I know?
ginger		 You can't make me stop caring...
ace		What? What?!
ginger		I said, you can't make me stop caring about people.
ace		 Ginger. I'm tryin' to make the best of everything here, you know?  I mean, you're my wife, for chrissakes. Uh, I mean... people look up to you in this town. I don't know what to think -
ginger		 I am.
ace		 ...you gotta get a hold of yourself.
ginger		Okay.
ace		If not for me, at least for Amy.
ginger		 Okay, okay.
ace		 You understand? Your drinking's gettin' way out of hand. I'm gonna get you into a program. They got plenty of good ones.
ginger		I don't need one.
ace		Yes, you do. It's very discreet. There's no names in the papers. You don't have to worry about any of that stuff.
ginger		That's all you care about.  You don't care about me at all.
ace		 Yes, I - yes, I do.
ginger		No, you don't.
ace		How could you say that?  You're a beautiful woman. You're destroying yourself. You don't need that stuff. You don't need that fuckin' leech livin' off you. I know you better than you know yourself. You're a tiger, you're stronger than I am. And when you set your mind on doing something, you do it better than anybody.  You can do it.
ginger		 Oh, God. Oh, God. Okay.  Okay... I'll try. I'll try.
ginger		I'll try. I will. Don't be mad at me, okay... I will.
borelli		Aspett'. [Italian-American slang for 'Wait'] Wait a minute. You mean to tell me that the money we're robbing is bein' robbed? That somebody's robbing from us?  We go through all this fuckin' trouble, and somebody's robbin' us?
gaggi		 Eh?
nance		Like I said, you know, i-it's part of the business. I-it's considered leakage.
borelli		Leakage, my balls. I want the guy who's robbin' us.
borelli		What's the point of skimming if we're being skimmed? Defeats the whole purpose of what we're doin' out there.
gaggi		 Huh?
nance		You know, they take this money because they're my guys. So you gotta give 'em some leeway.
borelli		What the hell have you been doin' out there?
piscano		I was out there with my cumma [Italian- American slang for 'girlfriend'.]
borelli		Your cumma? What are you doin' with your cumma?
piscano		What else? I gave her a schaff [Italian-American slang for 'tap'.]
borelli		Artie, what the hell have you been doin' out there, Artie?
piscano		I'm out there more than I'm here.
borelli		You gotta go back there and talk to that guy.
piscano		Come on, go back there? I never got paid my expenses for the last trip.
borelli		What expenses?
piscano		Well, I'm goin' all over, layin' money out of my own pocket, and I never get anything back. What the hell's goin' on?
borelli		You gotta go back out there.
piscano		Well, then, from now on, I'm gonna start keepin' records.
borelli		Artie, no records, Artie. What are you gonna do with records? Pay taxes?
piscano		Well, I keep layin' out my own fuckin' dough for these trips and nothin' ever comes back. I mean, what hell's goin' on? What are we doin' over here?
borelli		You're goin' out to Las Vegas, you're havin' a good time at my expense. What the fuck? I mean, after all, you're the one having a good time, not me.
green		I can't believe you're doing this.
scott		We made a deal. You came to me, remember?
green		Yes, I appreciated your advice...
green		Why are you doing this to me?
scott		Because you're wrong.
green		I'm not wrong.
scott		Yes, you are.
green		No, I am not wrong.
scott		And you're not going to get away with this! I will see to it that you do not get away with this!
judge		The court will now hear the matter of the plaintiff, Anna Scott, against Tangiers Corporation and its president, Philip Green.
judge		Mr Logan, you may proceed.
scott		I believe he was absolutely fair and I'm delighted with the decision.
nance		 We got a problem.
nance		 It didn't go too well.
nance		 Green has to open up the books... has to show how he got the financing. And, hey, that's - that's not good.
gaggi		Shit.
green		What are you talking about?
green		We were - We were involved in minor real estate deals many years ago. It was never a partnership.
green		I'm a little in shock, quite frankly...
reporter		So, actually, how often do you really fill in for him?
sherbert		 - with other real-estate deals and - and things, you know.
reporter		 So, in Green's absence, then, you're the boss.
ace		I serve at the pleasure of the chairman of the board and... my, uh, responsibilities are to run the day- to-day operations.
reporter		So, day-to-day, then, you're the boss?
ace		Well, in a sense, you could say that... I am the boss, when Mr Green is away. You could say that.
webb		It says  You believe that?
duprey		Did he really say that?
webb		Why, of course, he really said that. It's right here. Has that man even filed for his license yet?
austin		I don't know. We'll have to check the files.
webb		Well, without gettin' your shorts in a knot, would you do that? And kinda check closely, 'cause we may have to kick a kike's ass out of town.  Thank you.
newscaster		 Could lose his ability to work in the casino.
ace		 Hello.
nicky		 Listen...
nicky		 ...I gotta meet Clean Face right away. What about the Chez Paree?
super subtitle		'I gotta meet Charlie the Banker right away at your house, okay?'
ace		 No, you, you can't. You gotta make a reservation.
ace		 It's all booked up.
super subtitle		'I don't want a meeting at my house.'
nicky		 No, no it's okay.
ace		 It's impossible. It's booked up, and you gotta make a reservation.  It's...
ace		 ...very difficult to get in.
nicky		 Well, it's okay. I'll use the service entrance. I'll see you at nine.
super subtitle		'I'll come in from the golf course side. See you at six.'
ace		 Uh...
ace		 ...all right.
newscaster		 The battle between...
newscaster		 ...state gaming officials and Tangiers Casino boss Sam 'Ace' Rothstein is heating up. Tonight, an up-to-the- minute look at Ace Rothstein's attempt to get state licensing despite law enforcement allegations of Rothstein's organized crime connections. Will Sam Rothstein's friendship with alleged organized crime figure Nicky Santoro keep Rothstein from running the Tangiers Casino?  And can the integrity of state gaming laws be jeopardized by a boyhood friendship?
ace		 Why don't you take it easy with that stuff? Huh?  Come on. Let me help you. Come on. We're talkin' about some stuff.
newscaster		 State officials say 'yes' when that relationship and those connections are with anyone as notorious as Nicky Santoro.
newscaster		Tonight at six: 'Will a boyhood friendship unseat Rothstein as the Tangiers' Casino boss?' Exclusive on the KVVO Special News Report.  ...Promise to keep my money fears away?
ace		 Just go downstairs.  Just... go downst-
newscaster		 Promise to be financially secure? Money Time can help you keep those promises.
charlie clark		You can't let this concern you, Ace. Don't worry about that stuff.
nicky		Hey, Ace.
ace		Hey.
ace		Want something to drink? Charlie you want a refill?
charlie clark		Yeah, refill'd be great.
nicky		 Hey, Mr Clark, how you doin'?
charlie clark		 Hi. Good.
nicky		 I've been trying to reach you. You're tougher to get than the President.
charlie clark		Well, I've been busy. 
nicky		Yeah, least you could do is return my phone calls, though.
charlie clark		Listen... Nicky... we talked about this... and, uh, I explained to you that there was the possibility you might have to take some kind of loss.
nicky		Yeah.  I think I want my money back.
charlie clark		 What're you gonna do? Strong-arm me?
nicky		You know... I think that you've gotten the wrong impression about me. I think in all fairness, I should explain to you what it is that I do. For instance, tomorrow morning I'll get up nice and early, take a walk down over to the bank and walk in and see you, and, uh... if you don't have my money for me, I'll crack your fuckin' head wide open in front of everybody in the the bank. And just about the time that I'm comin' out of jail, hopefully, you'll be comin' out of your coma. And guess what?  I'll split your fuckin' head open again. Because I'm fuckin' stupid. I don't give a fuck about jail.  That's my business. That's what I do. And we know what you do, don't we, Charlie? You fuck people out of money and get away with it.
charlie clark		 You can't talk to me like...
nicky		 Hey, you fat Irish prick. You put my fuckin' money to sleep. You go get my money, or I'll put your fuckin' brain to sleep.
charlie clark		 Sam?
nicky		Never mind fuckin' Sam. This is personal.  I'll be there in the morning. You can fuckin' try me, fatso.
nicky		You fuckin' try me.
nicky		You think he got the point?
ace		 What're you doin'? He's a square guy, for chrissakes.  You can't treat him like that. He's gonna run to the FBI.
nicky		Fuck the FBI! That prick's been dodging me for three weeks. And what is it with you?  All of a sudden, you're tryin' to tell me what to do all the time.
ace		I'm not tryin' to tell you what to do. But you were way out of line, Nick. What're you doin'? Where's your head?
nicky		Where's my head? Where's your fuckin' balls? Huh? You know I'm tryin' to put somethin' really big together out here. You know what I'm talkin' about, huh? You know!  If you're actin' like this now, how can I depend on you?  There's a lot of things gonna change out here. And if you wanna be there with me, Sammy, you're gonna have to go my fuckin' way.
ace		Listen, Nick, you gotta understand my situation. I'm responsible for thousands of people. I got a hundred million a year goin' through the place.  It's all over, I'm gonna tell you, it's all over, if I don't get that license.  And believe me, if it goes bad for me, it's gonna go bad for a lot of people, you understand?
nicky		Yeah, forget about your fuckin' license. I plant my own flag out here, you ain't gonna need a fuckin' license.  You know, I don't know what it is, Sammy, but the more I talk to you, the more I feel like you just don't wanna go along with me, is that it?
ace		No, I don't wanna come -
nicky		You should say so.
ace		I don't wanna come along with you.
nicky		Just say so.
ace		I'll be honest with you.
nicky		All right, fine.
ace		I don't wanna be involved in anything you're talkin' about...
nicky		Fine.
ace		...okay? I just wanna run a square joint. That's it. I just want my license. I want everything nice and quiet. That's it.
nicky		 You mean, quiet like this: 'I'm the boss.'  That's quiet?
ace		That's all taken out of context. Okay.
nicky		Yeah, that's out of context. Okay.
ace		I have no control over that. Ronnie and Billy were right there. They'll tell you exactly what happened.
nicky		Well, back home they don't know about fuckin' control. That looks bad.
ace		Looks bad? I'm gonna tell you what looks bad.
nicky		Yeah?
ace		Every time you're on television I get mentioned. That looks bad. That looks bad.
nicky		What the fuck happened to you? Will you tell me?
ace		What happened to me? What happened to you?
nicky		Yeah.
ace		You lost your control.
nicky		I lost control?
ace		Yes, you lost your control.
nicky		Look at you. You're fuckin' walkin' around like John Barrymore.
ace		All right.
nicky		A fuckin' pink robe and a fuckin'...
ace		All right.
nicky		...uh, uh, cigarette holder. I'm - I lost control?!
ace		Yeah.
nicky		You know, I didn't want to bring this up, but you have treating a lot of people with a lot of disrespect. Even your own wife.
ace		My wife?
nicky		Yeah.
ace		Now, what does she have to do with all this?
nicky		Well, she comes to see me. She was upset about a lot of things, especially that whole fuckin' Diamond - that Lester Diamond incident.
ace		All of a sudden, you're the shoulder to cry on? Did you at least tell her about your little role in that whole situation?
nicky		No, I didn't. What good would that do? That's not the fuckin' point.
ace		Listen, I would -
nicky		 The point is that she's upset. She's - and you got a fuckin' problem.
ace		I - I would appreciate it if you'd stay out of my personal life, okay? You wouldn't like it if I did it to you.
nicky		Hey, she came to talk...
ace		Please...
nicky		...to me.
ace		...don't do it to me...
nicky		She came to talk to me...
ace		Okay?
nicky		And I - what was I supposed to do, throw her out?
ace		Ju-just stay away from her. It's none of your business, okay? There are certain things you don't do, and you know that.
nicky		It's none of my business?
ace		That's right, yeah.
nicky		A week ago it was my business, now it's none of my business. In other words, when you need me to take care of somethin' for you, then you need me.
ace		Yeah, that's right, the way you need me to vouch for you as a citizen and get you out of one of your jams. I'm gonna have to straighten out what you just did with this guy.
ace		This guy is gonna run to the FBI.
nicky		Your fuckin' head is getting' bigger than your casino. That's your problem, pal.
nicky		 Fuckin' walking around with a big head. You better check yourself...
nicky		 Watch yourself. You're gonna get runned over there.
nicky		 Come on, huh. That's enough now. Be nice, huh? Be nice.
gaggi		 Frankie... they found a guy's head in the desert. Do you know about that?
marino		Yeah, I heard, yeah.
gaggi		Yeah. Everybody's talkin' about it. They're makin' a big deal out of it.
marino		I know.
gaggi		It's in all the papers.
marino		What're you gonna do?
gaggi		And I mean... that's no good.
marino		I know.
gaggi		You gotta tell him... to take care of things a little better.
marino		I'll tell him, Remo.
nicky		 But, hey, what do they care, as long as I keep sendin' money back.
marino		Yeah, but they're complaining.
nicky		Let 'em complain. I'm the one who's here.
nicky		I do all the work. Somebody don't like it, fuck him.
marino		It's up to you.
nicky		They want a fuckin' war, I'm ready.
nicky		I know one thing. All I gotta do is take care of four or five of those fuckin' guys, the rest will fall right into place. Believe me.
nicky		I see you, you motherfuckers.
nicky		Practice enough this week, you prick?
austin		A record of the arrests...
ace		That was nineteen years ago, and they were simple gambling pinches.
austin		You've been very open with us. I mean, uh, your books and papers and... that - that's gonna mean something when you go before the Commission.
ace		Well, that's all I ask, gentlemen, a fair hearing.
duprey		Well, this kind of honesty will guarantee that fair hearing.
ace		Good.
austin		All right, well, we'll move on to -
nicky		 What the fuck is this? Where's this fuckin' guy gonna land, on the fairway?
nicky		 They're fuckin' agents, Frankie. Look at this.
nicky		A hundred dollars, whoever hits the plane.
piscano		They're fightin' over those suitcases again. You know what that means, right? You know what that means, right? That means I gotta take another trip out to Vegas, and it's gonna cost me another couple of grand.
piscano		They're not gonna make a fool out of me. I write it all down in this book,  every fuckin' nickel that goes down. Right here, receipts...
piscano's mother		 Hey! Oh!
piscano		Oh, sorry -
piscano's mother		What's the matter with you?
piscano		Receipts and bills and... everything's here.
piscano's mother		Since when do you talk like that?
piscano		I'm sorry.
piscano's mother		There's a lot of people here.
piscano		Nance gives me trouble and I'll tell him... screw around with those suitcases and I'll take the eyes out of his frickin' head.
piscano's mother		Again!
piscano		I didn't curse. I said 'frickin' head'.
piscano's mother		That's enough.
piscano		I'm sorry.
piscano		Plus, what's to prevent him with the suitcases, that he can take what he wants?  Fuckin' Nance, he brings us back two suitcases from the Tangiers, and what about three or four?
piscano		We got nobody in the room to watch. That's the law. You know, we can't even go into the count room to watch our money? Could you believe this cowboy bullshit?
piscano		And sure he's got his people in there. But how do you know? They could all be in on it together, those miserable fucks.
piscano		I'll find out and, if it's Green himself, I'll bury that bastard.
piscano		 I've never trusted him. And you know I got eyes...
piscano		...behind my head. They trust that scumbag, I don't. Right now, the way I feel, I'll hit the two of them in the head with a fuckin' shovel.
piscano's mother		All right, take it easy now, take it easy.
piscano		Mom, I'm sorry, they're beatin' me left and right.  Ma, I'm sorry. I'm all upset.
piscano's mother		 I know, but that's enough.
piscano		You know - You know - You know what they're doin' to me?
piscano's mother		I know it, I know it.
piscano		I can't take this no more. Back and forth, back and forth.
piscano's mother		Take it easy, though.
piscano		All right, all right. But I - I -
piscano's mother		You'll get a heart attack like that.
piscano		You know, I - I'm too upset right now. And - An end has to be put to this.
piscano		 ...did years ago, start kickin' ass, I - I'll do it, and I'll use the goddamn shovel!  I mean, I...
piscano's mother		 You are right.
piscano		 ...everything's comin' out of my pocket. I gotta pay for all these trips back and forth, back and forth.
piscano's mother		 You are right. What can I...
piscano's mother		 ...tell you.
piscano		 I'm in this to make money, not to lose money.  And...
piscano		 Because...
piscano		 ...if you want somethin'...
piscano		 ...done right, you gotta do it yourself.
piscano's mother		 Then do it the way you want.
piscano's mother		 What can I tell you?
ace		...sunk the whole world.
piscano's mother		 That's the way people are. There are some that are good and some that are bad.
oscar		Mr Chairman and members of the Commission. Mr Rothstein is pleased to be here today.
oscar		...evidence... and we have documents, one of which is a report by retired FBI agents, which completely absolves  Mr Rothstein from any wrongdoing. I'd like this marked, please, Mr Chairman.
senator		 Pardon me, counselor. Before you continue...
oscar		No, I want to have this marked, Mr. -
senator		 ...this, uh, this Commission is prepared to act on a motion denying the Rothstein application.
oscar		Denying?
senator		 Do I hear a motion seconded?
oscar		Mr. Chairman -
senator		 Do I have a vote on the motion?
oscar		Mr. Chairman -
senator		 The ayes have it. This hearing is adjourned.
ace		 You guys have to be kidding.
ace		Adjourned! What do you mean, adjourned?
oscar		Mr. Chairman, please.
ace		Mr. Chairman...
ace		Senator, you promised me a hearing.
ace		You won't allow me a hearing? You didn't even look at the FBI reports.
ace		When you were my guest, Mr. Chairman, Senator, at the Tangiers Hotel, did you not promise me that I would have a fair hearing -
senator		 I was never - I was never your guest at the Tangiers.
ace		You were never my guest?!
senator		 That's right.
ace		I never comped you?! I don't comp you at least two or three times a month at the Tangiers?!
senator		 Uh, I - I'd... I'd like to answer - answer that at this time.
ace		Liar.
senator		 Mr Rothstein is being very typical to this point.
ace		He's lying.
senator		The only time I was at the Tangiers was when I had dinner with Barney Greenstein.
ace		Was I at that dinner? Just tell me -
senator		You were wandering around.
ace		Was I at that dinner?
senator		You were wandering around.
ace		Was I at that dinner?
senator		You were wandering around.
ace		Was I at that dinner?
senator		You were in the m- You were in the building.
ace		I was in the building!
ace		You know damn well I was at that dinner, and you swore to me that I would have a fair hearing at that dinner! Did you not?! Did you not?!  Give me that much at least!
senator		 Yes, you were.
ace		Yeah, thanks for not callin' me a liar. You son-of-a-bitch. You son-of- a
female newscaster		 ...'Ace' Rothstein, accused the state's top gaming officials of corruption.
ace		 What are you running for, Bob? What are you running for?
ace		 Don't you remember? You promised me a fair hearing when you were gettin' comped at my hotel and you were asking me for copies of your bills so -
ace		- you could put 'em on your expense account?
ace		 Bullshit! Bullshit!
ace		 We all have a past. You have a past, I have a past. And my past is no worse than yours. But you guys think you have the right to pass judgement on me.
ace		 ...twenty years in order to find nothin' on me -
ace		- unsubstantiated truths on me. And if you look at your own lives you'd all be in jail.
gaggi		What the hell's he gonna do now?
stone		I don't know 
gaggi		What's he doin'? He knows all those guys he yelled at are friends of ours. What's the matter with him, making all this mess?
stone		Maybe he could run things with another job title. Wouldn't be the best, but, uh, what are we gonna do?
gaggi		However he runs things, it's gotta be quiet. Let him hide upstairs in the office. Say he's the janitor, I don't give a shit. But, please, whatever job he takes, make sure it's something quiet.
trudy		 ...Sasha Semenoff Orchestra...
trudy		...and the Sam Rothstein Dancers.
trudy		Mr Rothstein is a professional gambler and the best football handicapper...
trudy		...in American, a man who will take you inside the real Las Vegas as no one has ever done before. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the new...
trudy		...Entertainment Director of the Tangiers Hotel Casino: Mr Sam Rothstein.
ace		 Welcome to the Sam Rothstein Show. We're very happy to have you here this evening. The young lady to my left is Trudy, who is a lead new dancer in our fabulous show from Paris.
ace		Our first guest this evening... is Frankie Avalon.
webb		Keep an eye on him.
ace		 How many kids do you have?
frankie avalon		 Uh, I'm very proud to say that we have eight children.
frankie avalon		 No, no, no, no, please, please, please, please, no, please.
ace		 That's amazing.
frankie avalon		 It was my pleasure.
green		Ace, don't do it.
green		Oh, no, no. No, no. Oh, Jesus... he's juggling!
ace		 I recently challenged him to a debate on this program and he declined. What are you worried about, Pat? You don't have to send me any questions. You can ask me anything you want.
stone		He's on all night, screamin' about how he's gonna take his damn lawsuit all the way to the Supreme Court. He really must be crazy. He's gonna go to Washington with this?  He's out of his fuckin' mind.
ace		 ...state that we have such hypocrisy. Some people can do whatever they want. Other people have to pay through the nose.
gaggi		Andy, go see him. Tell him maybe it's time he should quit.
ace		First of all, what they did was totally unconstitutional. We're already on the list to be heard before the Supreme Court of the United States later this year.
stone		These guys back home don't give a fuck about the Supreme Court and any of this bullshit! They want things to quiet down. They want you to walk away from -
ace		Walk away? Andy, you can't be serious. How can I walk away? Don't you see what's goin' on here? Don't you see what's at stake?
stone		The old man said, 'Maybe your friend should give in.'  And when the old man says 'maybe', that's like a papal bull. Not only should you quit, you should run!
ace		Know what my problem is? Every time they mention my name in the papers, these cocksuckers, they mention Nicky, too. How the fuck does that help?  I mean, the heat he brought down is murder!  We had a police department who was cooperative. He's pissed them off so much now that nobody can make a move anymore. I mean, what do you do about that?
stone		What do you propose?
ace		I don't know, he doesn't listen to me. Maybe he should...  get lost for a while. Take a vacation. Would that be so bad?
stone		They ain't sendin' Nicky nowhere.
ace		All right, look, if he took a break, it would just give everybody some time to maneuver. That's all I'm saying. It's all that I'm saying.
stone		I would forget about the maneuver. I would just get out.
ace		 I can't do that.
jennifer		 You know, I don't feel like playin' tennis.
jennifer		 Let's go to lunch. Do you want to go to the Riviera?
ginger		 One o'clock?
jennifer		 Great.
ginger		 You know, I've got to do some shopping afterwards. Do you want to go?
jennifer		 Well, you know...
ginger		 Yeah, and I get a sprained fuckin' elbow.
ace		 Yeah.
nicky		 Meet me at three.
ace		 What - what, Caesar's?
nicky		 No, a...
nicky		 ...hundred yards further down the road.
ace		 Why?
nicky		 Don't ask questions. Just be there.
nicky		 Always asking questions.
jennifer		 Suzy Creamcheese has the exact...
jennifer		 ...same outfit.
ginger		 But I saw something...
ginger		 ...something very... cute.
fbi agent		 Okay, pulled out...
nicky		Where the fuck you get off talkin' to people about me behind my back? Goin' over my head?
ace		What people?
nicky		What people! What'd you think, I wasn't gonna find out?
ace		I don't even know what you're talkin' about, Nick.
nicky		No? You said I'm bringin' heat on you?! I gotta listen to people because of your fuckin' shit?! You're ordering me out?! You better get your own fuckin' army, pal!
ace		I didn't do anything. I mean, I didn't order you or anybody...  I only told Andy Stone that you had a lot of heat on you, and that was a problem.
nicky		You want me to get out of my own fuckin' town?!
ace		Yeah, I said I - let the bullshit blow over for a while so I can run the casino. Anything goes wrong with the casino, it's my ass. It's not yours, it's my ass.
nicky		Oh, I don't know whether you know this or not, but you only have your fuckin' casino because I made that possible!
ace		I -
nicky		 I'm what counts out here! Not your fuckin' country clubs or your fuckin' TV shows! And what the fuck are you doin' on TV anyhow?!
ace		What are you -
nicky		 You know I get calls from back home every fuckin' day?!  They think you went batshit!
ace		I'm only on TV because I gotta be able to hang around the casino. You understand that. You know that. Come on.
nicky		Your fuckin' ass! You could have had the food and beverage job without goin' on television!  You wanted to go on TV.
ace		Yeah, I did want to go on TV. That way I have a forum. I can fight back. I'm known. People see me. They know they can't fuck around with me like they could if I was an unknown. That's right.
nicky		You're makin' a big fuckin' spectacle of yourself.
ace		Me?! I wouldn't even be in this situation if it wasn't for you. You brought down so much fuckin' heat on me. I mean, every time I meet somebody here, the big question is do I know you.
nicky		Oh, sure. Now you want to blame your fuckin' license on me, is that it?
ace		No, it - it - Nicky, when you asked me if you could come out here, what did I tell you? I mean, you asked me, and I knew you were going to come out no matter what I said, but what did I tell you? Do you remember what I told...
nicky		 Back -
ace		...you? Do you remember what I told you?
nicky		Back - Back up, back up a fuckin' minute here. One minute. I asked you?! When the fuck did I ever ask you if I could come out here?! Get this through your head, you -
ace		 You never - ?
nicky		Get this through your head, you Jew motherfucker, you. You only exist out here because of me!  That's the only reason!  Without me, you, personally, every fuckin' wiseguy skell [Skell: the lowest form of wiseguy - a drunken bum] around'll take a piece of your fuckin' Jew ass! Then where you gonna go?!  You're fuckin' warned! Don't ever go over my fuckin' head again! You motherfucker, you!
marino		Well, we got company.
nicky		Do you see that? Dumb Jew motherfucker. Grew up together and he's actin' like he don't even know me. I know we're supposed to avoid each other, but, you know, there's ways to do things and there's ways not to.
dominick		Yeah. Fuck him.
sherbert		To Abraham Lincoln.
ace		L'chaim. [Yiddish for 'to life']
sherbert		Here we go. Good luck.
dominick		Forget about it, Nick. Don't let it bother you.
nicky		Why, does it look like it's bothering me? What do I give a fuck?  Fuckin' Oscar too. All the fuckin' money I've given that prick, he don't even look over here. What's his problem?
marino		Mm.
nicky		Fuckin' Jews stick together, don't they?
marino		They're havin' a good time too.
nicky		So are we.
ace		 Yeah?
sherbert		 Sam, we got a problem.
ace		 What is it?
sherbert		 The little guy. He's half in the bag, and nobody told him he was eighty- sixed from the joint, so we...
sherbert		 ...all turned our heads and made out like we didn't know who he was. He's over at the twenty-one table with his...
sherbert		...nose wide open. He took the money out of his own kick. His nose is open for about ten thousand.
ace		 Oh, no.
sherbert		 He wants a fifty-thousand marker.
ace		 No, just - just give him, give him ten. That's it. Ten.  I'll be right down.
sherbert		 He's gonna come up with ten thousand, just the way you wanted.
nicky		Ten thou? No, no, no.
sherbert		...give you ten thousand -
nicky		 Fifty! I said fifty!
sherbert		Look, take -
nicky		 Fuckers!  They take it, but they don't want to give it back.
nicky		How the fuck can you grin? How the fuck could you grin?
nicky		You know how much I'm stuck? You give a fuck?
nicky		Do ya?!
nicky		 Yeah. Give yourself a hand right across your fuckin' mouth.
nicky		Look at this fuckin' beaut they put in now. Sherbert send you in here to rob me now? Been fuckin' knockin' everybody's dick in all night? Huh? You been beatin' all the customers tonight, motherfucker?
nicky		Huh, jag-off? Hit me.
nicky		Take this stiff and pound it up your fuckin' ass! Hit me again.
nicky		Take this one and stick it up your sister's ass! Hit me again.
nicky		That's it, keep lookin' at him, you fuckin' dummy. If you had any fuckin' heart at all, you'd be out fuckin' stealin' for a livin'.  Hit me again.
nicky		What the fuck you keep lookin' at him for, huh, you fuckin' pu-
nicky		Look at this, twenty fuckin' paints in a row. Hit me again!
marino		 He's here.
nicky		 You should pay as fast as you collect, you know.
ace		What are you doin'? You gotta get out of here!
nicky		Hey, Sammy, tell this Jew motherfucker over here to pay that marker.
ace		Nicky, Nicky, you're not listenin' to me. I'm here to help you. What's the matter with you?  You're gonna bury us both.
nicky		Just give me the money. Fuckin' give me the fuckin' money, Sammy.
ace		I'm gonna okay you ten and get you even, and that's it. Then you got to get out of here before the cops and the newspapers are all over you.
ace		Ten and that's it.
nicky		What are you starin' at, you bald- headed Jew prick?!
nicky		Sue me, you Jew fuck!
marino		Let's get out of here.
nicky		What? Get out of here? I got a marker comin'.
nicky		 Deal.
oscar		I know, but everything's changed now. You're talking about a divorce. You're even asking for alimony payments and... child support... and now custody.
ginger		I just want what any divorced woman would get.
ace		I mean she's only sober about two hours a day. It's usually from eleven in the morning until one in the afternoon. And if I gave her her money and her jewels now, you know what she's gonna do? She's gonna piss it all away in about a year, and then where will she be?  Or finding some other excuse to come and I - I -
ginger		 He said if it didn't work out between us, that I could get my things and I could leave.
ace		 Look in my eyes. Look in my eyes.
ace		You know me. Do you see anything in these eyes that makes you think I would ever let someone in your condition take my child away from me?  Do you?  You know that won't happen.
ace		 Everything all right?
ace		I mean, what could we do? After a while, we'd just take breathers from each other. You know, little separations. At that time, I remember Ginger took Amy and went to Beverly Hills. She was gonna spend a week or so shopping.
operator		 Yes, Mr Rothstein.
ace		 Operator, the Beverly Hotel in Beverly Hills, please.
lester		Hey.
ace		 M- Uh, Mr. and Mrs. Rothstein?
lester		 Hey, little Dale Evans.
ace		 Hello.
forlano		 Yeah.
ace		 Uh, my wife is w-with an old friend of her i-in LA.
ace		 Some low-life. A guy named Lester Diamond.
ace		 My daughter's with 'em too and I think they're gonna try and kidnap her. Is there anybody you can send?
forlano		 We'll take care of it.
ace		 Hello.
lester		 Hello.
ace		 Yeah, is this Lester? This is Sam...
ace		...Rothstein. I want to talk to Ginger. Put her on the phone.
lester		 She's not here, Sam.
ace		 Lester...
ace		 ...listen to me very carefully. I want to talk to Ginger. I want my kid back. I want her put on a plane immediately.
ace		 I know she's there. Don't fuck around with me.
lester		 Uh, I'm not. Sam, I wouldn't...
lester		...wouldn't do it. Yeah, no, I, I...
ginger		 You shouldn't do this.
ace		 You understand? Put her on the fuckin' phone.
lester		 Sam, I - I don't know where she is, okay?
lester		 So, l-l-l-listen, I te- I te- I tell you - can I call you back in a few minutes?
lester		Mm-hm.  1862. Okay, good. I'll call you right b-
ace		 Right away.
lester		 I'll call you right back.
ace		 Right back.
lester		 All right. I just bought us a few minutes. Want to get back at this prick?
lester		Hm?  Okay, you got, what, two million dollars in that box?
lester		Hey... you got a minute? Hey. He's got two million in the box, am I right?  Okay, you let him keep your jewels. We take the cash and the only other thing he cares about.  Huh?  Her majesty. We go to Europe. You dye your hair, get some pl-
amy		 I don't want to go to Europe. I want to go to see The Elephant Man.
lester		We're not gonna go see any fuckin' elephants, okay?
ginger		 We'll go later.
lester		 You dye your hair... you get plastic surgery, like we talked about. Right? You're the mother. How much do you think he's gonna pay to get this fuckin' kid back?
amy		I don't want to go to Europe.
lester		 Shut your mouth!
lester		You know where she gets this from!
amy		You shut up.
lester		No, you - You want me to come over there? I'll smack your face.
lester		Don't give me any of your shit!  Okay, this has always been a dream, but we're going.
ginger		Lester - he called you here.
lester		Right.
ginger		Here.
lester		He was just on the phone.
ginger		 He called you right here.
lester		I just talked to him.
ginger		 So, he knows where you are. That means he's sending some guys over here probably right now.
lester		Ginger... It means he's sitting by the phone like a dumb-bell, waiting for me to call him back. Now, I -
ginger		 That's - Yeah, he's sitting by the phone like a dumb-bell, just waiting for you to call him back. That's what he's -
lester		 He's sittin' by the phone -
ginger		 What do you think we're gonna do? He's probably got guys outside the fuckin' house!
ginger		 Get your bag! Come on, get your bag! Get your things! Let's go!
lester		It's this bullshit. It's just bullshit right here. This is the fuckin' problem, you know.
ginger		 Oh, what bullshit? What, do you want to fuckin' talk it over now?
lester		You're done yakkin', okay? You're done yakkin' now?
ginger		 Go! Go! Get in the car! Go!
lester		 'Go! Go! Go!'
nicky		 You just relax. Nobody's killin' anybody, do you hear?
ginger		 No, I really do. I think he's gonna kill me.
nicky		 You just relax, and call me back here in exactly an hour, on this phone, and I'll see what I can do.
ginger		 Yeah, uh-huh... Okay.
ginger		 So, I'm gonna call you back in an hour... at this number, and you're gonna be there, right?
nicky		 I'll be there.
nicky		 And listen, don't do anything else crazy, okay? You all right? Okay.
ginger		 Bye.
ginger		Just knock it off! Would you two knock it off? Get in the car.
lester		She started it. She started the whole thing. I'm just standin' here.
lester		You're not gonna drive. Don't even think you're gonna drive.
ginger		No, I'm gonna drive.
lester		 No, I'm not gonna drive with some crazy -
ginger		 You're driving me nuts!
lester		Get in the passenger's side! And I'm sendin' this kid to Bolivia in a fuckin' box.
nicky		Ginger -
nicky		 Ginger called me.
ace		 Yeah.
nicky		I just told you. She called me.
ace		And what'd she want?
nicky		She was afraid to call you.
ace		Yeah, she's with that cocksucker again... and they got Amy.
ginger		Well, that's why I'm here. She wants to come back, but she's afraid you're gonna whack her out.
ace		Yeah, they're gonna kidnap my kid. What do you want?
nicky		I know. Why didn't you come to me? I mean, this is family, it ain't business. Meanwhile, you make calls back home. Sammy, it makes us look bad out here, you know what I mean? Back and forth, this one and that one, and, in the meantime, she's gone anyway. Am I right?
ace		 She's drivin' me fuckin' crazy.
nicky		I think if you, uh, okay it, you know, assure her that she's gonna be all right, she'll come back.
ace		She's driving me fuckin' crazy.
nicky		Well, once you get her here, you think about it, you know?  But get the kid back here. She wants to come back. That's the, uh, that's the main thing here. You want your kid, don't you? Huh?
ace		 Hello.
ginger		 Just who you wanted to talk to, right?
ace		 Listen...
ace		 ...uh-uh-uh - I'm not gonna ask you where you are, just please, put Amy on a plane. Just put her on right away, any plane to get her here right away...
ace		 ...please. That's all I'm askin' you.
ginger		 Do you... I mean... I don't think she should go by herself.
ace		 What do you mean?
ginger		 What I mean is, you think if, uh, do you think if I came back... do you think you could forgive me?
ace		 I don't know. I gotta tell you, I don't know.
ginger		 Right.
ginger		 I under-understand that. I-I know I fucked up.
ace		 What about the money? Uh, where's the box?
ginger		 I gotta tell ya...
ginger		 ...I-I... made some mistakes and I spent some money.
ace		 What's it...
ace		 ...under?
ginger		 Pretty serious.
ace		 How serious?
ginger		It's, uh, it's under twenty-five.
ace		 It's under...
ace		 ...twenty-five thousand?
ginger		 Yeah.
ace		 And...
ace		 ...the rest of the two million is still there?
ginger		 Yeah, yeah, I got the rest.
ace		 That I'll live with. Any more I couldn't.
ginger		 Okay?
ace		 All right...
ace		 ...all right. Where are you? I'll send a plane for you right away.
ginger		 Hi, Sam.
ace		So, what'd ya do with it?
ginger		With what?
ace		With the money.
ginger		He needed some clothes.
ace		 Twenty-five thousand for clothes.
ginger		He wanted a watch, too.
ace		Twenty-five thousand for clothes and a watch.
ginger		Mm-hm.
ace		Mm-hm.
ginger		Gino.
ace		 First of all, he's not gonna wear f- thousand-dollar suits. But let's say he did, which he won't. How you gonna get fitted for twenty-five suits in three days?  I, um, I mean, how could you get fitted that fast? I can't get fitted that fast, and I pay twice as much.
ginger		I bought him a watch too.
ace		Yeah.
ginger		Yeah.
ace		But even if you bought him a watch, a really nice watch, one that he thought was nice - and he doesn't know what the fuck a good watch is - so, you go, five, ten, twelve grand?
ginger		Yeah.
ace		At the most, which is impossible for him.
ace		Plus, at the most, three suits, a thousand apiece. That still leaves what?  Around ten thousand?
ginger		 Would you knock it off, Sam?
ace		I'm just tryin' to figure it out.
ginger		There's nothin' to figure out. I'm home... we're workin' it out.
ace		Yeah, but I've been told that before, 'We're workin' it out.' You think that you're home... after what you just put me through with Amy, is a favor to me?
ace		 So, counting the watch, let's say another four thousand for expenses over the weekend... of which you must have had a good time. I know he did.  That's for sure. I know that... fuckin' piece of shit had a good fuckin' time. On my money. You might as well have fucked him, which you probably did anyway.
ace		You're lookin' at me a certain way. You - you're teary-eyed, huh? You're upset. You're a good actress, you know that?  Good fuckin' actress. You can fuckin' get that pity out of people. I'm not a john, you understand?  You always thought I was, but I'm not. And I'm not a sucker. That fuckin' pimp cocksucker. He's lucky I didn't kill him last time. Lucky he's fuckin' livin'. And if you would've stayed with Amy... and you would've ran away... you would've been fuckin' dead.
ace		Both of you. Dead. Dead.
ginger		 I want to have him killed. Yes, I want him killed.  I've fuckin' had it.
ginger		 So, are you with me on this?
ace		You want to get rid of me? Here I am. Go ahead, get rid of me  Hello.
ginger		 Yes! I fuckin' hate you! I can't take it anymore!
ginger		Yes, I want to kill you! I hate your fuckin' guts!
ace		You hate my guts? I want you to come with me now.
ginger		Get off of me! Stop it!
ace		Come with me now! Come with me now. Come with me now. I want you out of here.
ace		I want you out of here! I want you out of here!
ginger		 Let go of me! Let go of me!
ace		Take your  fuckin' bag and get out of here!
ginger		I'll go, but I want my money right now!
ace		You'll get your money! Don't worry.
ginger		The arrangement is over!
ace		 No kidding. NO KIDDING!
ginger		And I still get my money. I need some cash right now. You can't just put me in the street.
ace		I'll get your cash. You haven't been straight with me ever since I met you! You never loved me in the first place!  I need eyes in the back of my fuckin' head with you, you fuckin' bitch!
ginger		Love you?!
ginger		How could I love you?! How can I love you?! You treat me like I'm your fucking dog!
ace		You're lower than a dog!
ginger		Fuck you!
ace		 Take the fuckin' money you fuckin' want.
ginger		I'm going to the bank and I'm getting my jewelry too!
ace		Yeah, no kidding. Good! It opens at 9 a.m. Be there!
ginger		And don't send your guys down there to stop me! I mean it.
ace		I guarantee you, I will not stop you.
ginger		Stop! You aren't getting rid of me with one fuckin' suitcase!
ace		You'll come back tomorrow and get the rest. Just get out of here.
ginger		Fine.  I'm takin' Amy.
ace		 You're not takin' Amy.
ginger		I am. I'm wakin' her up right now.
ace		You're stoned. You're a junkie. Get out of here.
ginger		I am not! She's my daughter too! Goddamn you!
ace		Get out of here!
ace		Send my lawyers a letter.  God-fuckin'-damn you!
ginger		Fucker! 
ace		 Oh. Have a good day at school.
amy		Okay.
ace		Okay? Okay, angel.
ace		 From now on, I have to know where you and Amy are at all times.
ace		 Now, here's a beeper. I want you to keep it on you. It's very light.  So I can call you whenever I have to.
ace		 Okay?
nicky		I mean, listen, two people don't get along, at some point you gotta call it... I mean, it's none of my business, but I ... I think that's what you gotta do. You gotta take it somewhere -
ginger		 Oh, you're right, I know.  It's... well, I was just -
nicky		What? What?
ginger		Nothin'.
nicky		What were you gonna say? Go ahead.
ginger		I don't - 
nicky		Tell me what you were gonna say. Go ahead.
ginger		Yeah?
nicky		Yeah.
ginger		Well, I was thinkin', maybe... you know somebody at the bank...  could help me get my jewelry out?  There's a lot of money in there. Lot of money in there, and I'd be willing to take care of anybody who helped me out.
nicky		 Let me think about that.
ginger		Okay.
nicky		See who I got in there. Gotta get somebody I can trust.
ginger		Mm-hm.
nicky		You know?
ginger		Yeah. 'Cause, you know,  He's never gonna give me my jewelry.
nicky		Hm.
ginger		He holds that key so tight, he's probably got it stuck up his ass.
nicky		 Yeah, right. That's Sammy. And he's probably got it there too.
ginger		He's so fuckin' lucky. I could have buried him. I could have gone to Europe and taken the baby. And then he'd've tracked me down and he'd've killed me.
nicky		No, he wouldn't. I would have.  Well, there's one thing you don't do. You don't take a guy's kid and then take off.
ginger		 I didn't. I mean, I did, but then I did exactly what you told me to do, and I came right back.
nicky		You did. You're right.
ginger		Exactly.
nicky		You did. I like that. I like that. That's what I like about you. You did the right thing.
ginger		 I did what you told me to.
nicky		Yes, you did.
ginger		'Cause you always tell me the right thing to do.
nicky		Yeah.  - didn't he?
ginger		Sure did.
nicky		Everything went to his head. 
nicky		He did. He ain't the same person, right?
ginger		 No, he's not.
nicky		He really thinks who the fuck he is, I'll tell you that.
ginger		 He hates me.
ginger		He hates my fuckin' guts.
nicky		Come on, come on, you're a toughie. You can take this.  Don't cry.
ginger		 I'm not as tough as you think I am.
nicky		Yes, you are.
ginger		 I'm not and he scares the shit out of me. I never know what he's gonna do.
nicky		 Come on. Don't be scared.
ginger		 You gotta help me. I need a new sponsor, Nicky.
ginger		 I do. I need a new sponsor.
nicky		 Is that what you want?
ginger		Yeah.
nicky		A sponsor.
ginger		Yeah.
nicky		Mm... okay. Don't worry about it. Nobody'll fuck with ya anymore. I'll take care of ya.
ginger		 Nicky, please...
nicky		Yes, I will. It's what you want, isn't it? Huh?
ginger		 Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
nicky		It's what you want?
ginger		Yeah. Uh-huh -
ginger		Hi.
ace		Hi. You didn't answer your beeper.
ginger		I threw it away.
ace		You threw it away?
ginger		 Where's Amy?
ace		I put her to bed.
ginger		Oh.  I got your cigarettes.
ginger		Oscar wants you to call him.
ace		So, who'd you go to lunch with?
ginger		With Jennifer.
ace		And where'd you go?
ginger		To the Riviera.
ace		 What'd you have?
ginger		I had a... salad.
ace		What did Jennifer have?
ginger		 She had the same.
ace		 Okay. I want you to call Jennifer and I want you to tell her to tell you what she had for lunch, and I'm gonna listen in on the other line.
ginger		Why do you want to do that?
ace		You know why I want to do it. Just do it.
ginger		Fine.  Just gonna get the bowl for my thing.
ace		Mm.
ginger		The line's busy. There's nobody there.
jennifer		 Hello.
ace		 Hello, Jennifer, it's Sam -
ginger		All right... I didn't have lunch with Jennifer.
ace		 Who were you with?
ginger		 I was with somebody.
ace		I know you were with somebody. Who was it?  I just hope it's not them.
ace		What if he won't stop?
ginger		I can back him off.
nicky		Hey, Ginger... don't forget, if you're challenged, you know, if he asks anything, deny everything.  Do you understand? I don't want him bringin' beefs back home ... 'cause that could be a problem. You gotta be careful. He's not dumb, you know? You hear what I'm sayin', right?
ginger		I know. You don't have to tell me that. What do you think,  I'm stupid?
nicky		Do I think you're stupid? No, I think you're beautiful.  But I gotta go.
gaggi		It's private... but I want you to tell me the truth.
marino		Of course, Remo.
gaggi		I want you to tell me the truth, mind you.
marino		I always tell you the truth, Remo.
gaggi		Frankie... the little guy, he wouldn't be fuckin' the Jew's wife, would he? Because if he is... it's a problem.
marino		 No. I ain't see anything like that.
gaggi		Are you sure?
marino		I'm positive.  Remo... things are very fucked up down there, you know?
gaggi		Yeah, I know. That's why I'm asking. You see, my main concern is Nicky.
marino		Hm.
gaggi		I want to know... if he's doin' all right. If he's okay.
marino		He's good. He's fine.
gaggi		I'm askin' you, Frankie, to keep an eye on Nicky. Do it for me.
marino		No problem.
gaggi		You see... I wouldn't want to be jeopardizing anything for people who are our friends. You understand?
marino		I understand.
gaggi		Okay.  Frankie, you're a good boy.
marino		Thanks, Remo.
marino		 You must have drunk too much.
nicky		Go fuck yourself.
blue		 Hey, what do you guys want out of my life, huh?
blue		Hey, fuck you!
marino		He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
nicky		Walk, walk, walk. What'd you say?
marino		He asked me again about you and the Jew's wife.
nicky		Yeah, what'd you tell him?
marino		I told him I didn't know nothin'. But Jiggs and, uh, Tony Gorilla said if you did anything, you're fucked up.
nicky		You think he's goin' home, makin' a beef behind my back?
marino		Nah. You would've heard somethin'.
nicky		Yeah, what's to stop him?
marino		I know. I know.
nicky		I don't trust him anymore. But they'd never okay anything, you know?
marino		Yeah, but they keep askin' about it.
nicky		Well, now, sure they're askin'. They earn with the prick. I got a funny feelin' he's gonna start a fuckin' war or somethin'.  I'm not sure yet, you know. But I w- You know, but you know what I want you to do?
marino		What?
nicky		Who's this guy? Who's this guy?
marino		Oh, he ain't nobody.
nicky		You know what I want you to do? Get a couple of guys to dig a hole in the desert, then let 'em show you where it's at.
marino		Angelo and Buster.
nicky		Yeah, but I'm not sure yet.
marino		They'll do it.
nicky		And when I'm ready, I'll say the words, 'Go see the Jew.'
marino		Yeah.
nicky		And you make it disappear, you know what I mean?
marino		Yeah, just let me know. But you gotta be ready. You know what I'm talkin' about?
nicky		Did I say to do anything yet? I said I'm not sure... I'll let you know. I want to think about it. Where're these pricks at?
marino		Don't know.
nicky		Dominick said they're in the motel?
marino		Yeah, either that or in the fuckin' bank. I don't know. They're all over the joint.
ace		 Be right back. I'll be right back.
ace		Rudy, any calls for me, just give 'em to Mr Sherbert. I'll be right back.
rudy		Sure, Mr Rothstein. You'll be back...?
ace		I'm going home for a few seconds. I'll be right back.
rudy		 He's on his way home.
rudy		 Yeah, he just left.
nicky		Yeah? All right.
ace		 Hello? Hello! Ginger.
amy		 Help, Daddy!
ace		 Amy! Amy, open the door!
ace		Wh-wh -
amy		Dad!
ace		What happened? What happened? Who did this to you?
amy		Mommy.
ace		I'm gonna get a knife and cut you loose, honey, I'll -
amy		 Oh, no, please, please.
ace		 Okay, I'll be right back.
ace		When did this happen, honey?
amy		I don't know.
ace		You don't know? What time did your mother do this? When did she leave?
amy		I don't know.
ace		 Ohhh...
ace		 Hello.
nicky		 Sammy.
ace		 Yeah, uh, who's this?
nicky		It's me.
ace		 Nick?
nicky		 Yeah, what are you doin'? You okay?
ace		 No, I'm not okay.
ace		 How'd you know I was here?
nicky		 Well...
nicky		 ...uh, you know, I just wanted to talk to you a minute.
ace		 Well...
ace		 ...Ginger's missing and she tied Amy up and she locked her in her room. I gotta find her. I don't know where the hell she is.
nicky		 Yeah? Well, listen, Ginger's over here at the Leaning Tower with me.
ace		 She's there with you?
nicky		 Yeah, she's here.
ace		 I'll be right there.
nicky		 Uh, all right.
nicky		He's comin' over.
dominick		Great!
nicky		 Ace don't... listen, don't... don't make a scene, all right?
ace		I want to just talk. I want to talk to that Irish bitch.
nicky		She didn't know who to turn to.  She... she didn't know where to turn. She was tryin' to save your marriage.
ace		Yeah? Nicky, I want to talk to that fuckin' bitch.
nicky		 Hey, be fuckin' nice. Calm. Be nice. Don't fuck up in here.
ginger		 Hi, Sam.
ace		 I mean, you tie up our kid and you lock the fuckin' door?  Are...
ginger		Oh...
ace		...you out of your mind? That's our child. Are you out of your fuckin' mind?
ginger		It's just for a little while, Sam. The baby-sitter wasn't there.
ace		I ought to fuckin' have you committed. You fuckin' do that again,  I'll f-, I'll f-
ginger		She wasn't gonna get up. I was just gonna be out for a little while.
ace		I should have -
ginger		I mean, she was asleep. I was going to be right back before she even woke up.
ace		Listen to me, listen to me, listen to me.  Listen, you fuckin' cunt.
ginger		Oh, sh-
ace		Listen to me.
ginger		Fuck you.
ace		 Listen to me.
ginger		I w- I was gonna be back before she woke up.
ace		You listen carefully! You ever fuckin' touch her again, you ever do anything like that again, I'll fuckin' kill you.  Pure and simple. Do you hear me? Pure and fuckin' simple, I'll fuckin' kill you, you bitch.
ginger		 Why don't you just let me go, Sam?
ace		You fuckin' whore!
ginger		I'll sign anything you want me to sign, okay?
ace		You understand? What? Let you go?
ginger		I just want the key to my jewelry, and I want you to let me go.
ace		You want your jewelry?
ginger		I want you to let me go.
ace		And what? And let you disgrace me, you fuckin' pig? And let you disgrace me?  Get up. Get up and be a mother. Get in the car and go to the house...
ace		Right now. Get up and -
ace		Get - Get up! Get up!
ginger		I wou- I wouldn't do that if I were you.
ace		Get - get up!
ginger		I wouldn't do that...
ace		Get up! Get going!  Get up!
ginger		I wouldn't -
ace		Get the fu-  Get up and go home right now.
ginger		 I'm going. I'm going, you -!
ace		Now you need approval from him to go home?
ginger		So what? So who fuckin' blew you in the parking lot before you came in... huh?
ace		 You make me sick, you fuck. Once a fuckin' hooker, always a hooker.
ginger		Oh, fuck you! Fuck you, Sam Rothstein!  Fuck you!
ace		 Yeah, Billy Sherbert, please. Put him on.
sherbert		 Who's this?
ace		 Yeah, Bill, listen, I'll explain to you later. Just - You - You got a gun at home? Yeah. Bring it over here right away.
sherbert		 Okay. Just take it easy.
ace		 Right away. Okay?
sherbert		 I-I'll do it.
ginger		 Leave it where it is.
ginger		Where is he? Goddamn it! I want that Jew bastard killed! I have fuckin' had it!
marino		Calm down, calm down. Shh!
nicky		Shh.  Hide her car in the back!
ginger		There's no reason to hide my car. He already knows!  He threw it in my face! The second I get out of here, I -
nicky		What did I tell you? Supposing he goes back home and makes a fuckin' beef?  I gotta know exactly what you said. Tell me what you said to him.
ginger		Me? I said... nothin'. I said, I said, 'No, no, no.' Everything he said, I just kept sayin' no.
nicky		I told you this was fuckin' dangerous. Remember I said, 'Ginger, this is a dangerous situation. Be very careful.' You fuckin' yessed me to death.
ginger		If it's so fuckin' dangerous, then why don't you kill him?
nicky		I'm not gonna kill him. Shut the fuck up. What, do you know what you're talkin' about? I'm not killing anyb-
ginger		 Oh, well, then, have him killed and get it over with.
nicky		 Hey, don't be such a fuckin' smartass, will you?  I mean, I know the fuckin' guy thirty-five years, I'm gonna fuckin' whack him for you?  Fuck... motherfucker! I knew this, I knew it.
ginger		What about my money?
nicky		 Ah, what the fuck is the use? I should've never got invol-
nicky		 What? Hey! Hey! What the fuck are you... ?
ginger		Ah, you fuck! You're such a fuckin' asshole!
nicky		Get the fuck out of here. Get out! Get the fuck out!
nicky		 Get out. Get out! Get out!
nicky		Why'd I get involved with this fuckin' nut in the first place? Get out!
marino		You're gonna fuckin' kill her. Take it easy.
nicky		 Get her the fuck out of here. Get her out of here.
nicky		Get the fuck out of here.
ginger		 I don't need you! I have my own fuckin' money!
nicky		All right, all right.
ginger		I'm going' to the FBI! I'm not scared anymore!
nicky		All right. Be careful.
ginger		You fucked with me for the last time!
nicky		Okay, yeah.
nicky		Be careful.  Hey, come on. Get inside.
nicky		Can you fuckin' believe that?  Look at this motherfucker.
nicky		I fucked up, Frankie. I fucked up good this time. Should have never started with this fuckin' broad.
marino		Take it easy. What could you do? I mean, she threw herself at you, right?
nicky		I'm in a bad fuckin' spot here. You know that? Bad fuckin' spot.
ace		...hotel safe, then I want you to come right back.
ace		She, she's alone. Just go. Take the gun and go into Amy's.
ace		 Just wait there for me!
ginger		 Get down here and talk to me, goddamn it! Don't fuckin' ignore me! You motherfucker!
ginger		 I mean it!
ginger		You come down here right now! Come down here and talk to me, goddamn it! Fuck you! Goddamn you, come out here!  I'm gonna drive this fucking car through the living-room!
ginger		 You fucking coward! You motherfucker!
ginger		You come out here and talk to me, you fucker!
ace		 Will you stop it? You're drunk, you're on drugs. You're gonna -
ginger		I am not!
ace		 You're gonna be sorry if you don't stop that.
ginger		Don't you threaten me!
ace		You'll wake the whole neighborhood!
ginger		 Don't you threaten me!
ginger		You fuck! You fuck! I'm sick of you!
ginger		I am fuckin' Nicky Santoro! I am! He's my new sponsor!
ginger		 What are you looking at? Fuck off!
ginger		 I don't have to take your shit all the time anymore.
ginger		I'll to the FBI!
ginger		I will go to the police! I am not  Protecting you anymore, you fuck!
ginger		He won't...
ginger		I'm just trying to get in my house!
ginger		He won't let me go in my house!
ace		I won't let her in. I'm sorry, Randy, I'm not gonna let her in. She - Well, I'm not gonna let her in, the way she's behaving. I'm - I'm -
ginger		Not gonna let me in?
ace		Who knows what you're gonna do in there? I don't want you -
ginger		What do you mean, what am I gonna do? I'm in the same clothes for two days! I want to get a few of my things! Big deal!
ace		I'm afraid to let her in the house.
ginger		Oh, you are...
ace		I'm afraid she's gonna destroy stuff.
ginger		 Let me in the house! Fucker!
ginger		Fucker!
ace		Should I let her in like - ?
ginger		You ought to be afraid, the way you fuckin' treat me!
ace		If she calms down, I will let her in the house.
ginger		 I am calm!
ace		If she calms down...
ace		...I will let her in the house for five minutes if you gentlemen will escort her out if she happens not to want to leave. Because I don't - I -
ginger		 Can I go in?
ginger		Can I go in?
ginger		Yes, fine!  Fine!  Fuck you!
ginger		...most of my important stuff, all my papers and things. And I have to get 'em.
ginger		So don't let him come in here 'cause I know they're in here in the desk and he's -
ginger		Fuck! 
ginger		 Are you watching for him?
ginger		Got 'em.
ace		 Yeah, I don't want her in there more than a few more minutes.
ace		Fine, fine. How's your family?
ace		Oh, good.
ace		Congratulations.
ginger		 Don't worry about it.
ginger		 And it would be great if you guys could follow me out of here, because he's been threatening me.
ace		 Okay, Randy. Thank you.
ginger		 I just need to pick up a little cash inside.  Could you come with me?
ace		 Charlie, you've gotta - you've gotta stop her!
charlie clark		 I-I'm sorry, Sam.
ace		 You've got to stop her.
charlie clark		 What can I do?
ace		 She's a fuckin' junkie. She's out of her fucking mind.  Do you unders-
charlie clark		 She has...
charlie clark		 ...the keys, and it's still in both your names.
ginger		 Whoa.
charlie clark		 I'm sorry, there's nothing I can do. I'd like to help...
charlie clark		 ...but I can't.
ace		 Legally, she can't take that stuff. Legally, she can't take the stuff.
charlie clark		 No, Ace.
ace		 Half of everything is mine.
charlie clark		 Ace, listen to me.
ginger		Shit! Oh, goddamn it!
ginger		 Um, I'm gonna need a bag. If you could just ask the guy for a big bag, okay?
ginger		 And here. Here.
ginger		No, you can, you can.  You've been so nice to me.
ginger		 Yeah, just hold the top open, all right, and I can -
ginger		Oh, God. It's him.  You have to stop him. You have to - 'Cause he said he was going to kill me.
ginger		You just - Just stop him.
ace		Stop -
ace		Hey!
ace		Look, look. You can't stop her for speeding? I mean, look what the hell she's doing.
ginger		 For what?
ginger		 What?
ginger		 But I'm just trying to leave.
ginger		 But it was just mine.
ginger		But I didn't do anything.
little nicky		 Mom!
jennifer		 Can I make a fuckin' phone call?
jennifer		 Hey -
duprey		Grab everything in sight.
duprey		 Get the master account list!
austin		I want all those papers seized, regardless of what they are.
austin		I want this area off-limits to everybody.
austin		 Ah, yes, here we are. A little craps figures.  [Actual amount taken from craps tables before the skim.] Hey - Hey.
green		No, he didn't. And that's why it wasn't valid. I was being extorted, all right?  I'm willing to tell you whatever you want to know. I've got nothin' to hide here.
piscano		Those are my m- those are my mother's books.
piscano		What are you guys doin'?!
piscano's wife		 Artie, are you okay? Sweetheart? Honey? Wait a minute! He's sick! Artie! Oh, God!
piscano's wife		He's sick! It's his heart!
piscano's wife		Oh, God, is he breathing? He's not breathing!
piscano's wife		Artie!
piscano's wife		No, I won't calm down! He's my husband!
piscano's wife		Artie! Artie!
lawyer		Your Honor, as you can see, my clients are elderly and infirm. Any incarceration could pose a serious health risk. They are no danger to the community and they pose no flight risk.
lawyer		And Pre-trial Services recommends that bail remain as presently set.
judge		 We're going to take a ten-minute recess.
forlano		 He won't talk. Stone is a good kid. Stand-up guy, just like his old man. That's the way I see it.
borelli		I agree. He's solid. A fuckin' Marine.
capelli		 He's okay. He always was. Remo, what do you think?
gaggi		 Look... why take a chance? At least, that's the way I feel about it.
stone		You call Artie... and you tell him I don't care what, he's gotta be in my office Thursday morning before eleven o'clock.
lawyer		It's done.
stone		 It's terribly important. I gotta have a conversation with this guy. That's all.
curly		Hey, where you goin', jag-off?
curly		Fuck you.
nicky		Hey, Mikey, how's your hernia?
fat sally		How you doin'?
fat sally		Huh? Come on, you fuckin' rat.
dominick		Fuck!  You...
dominick		 ...rat motherfucker! You rat mother-
marino		Tough guy! You and your f-  Fuckin' brother!
dominick		Oh, you - !
marino		No more!
fat sally		Get him, Marino!
marino		 You fuckin' scumbag!
marino		 No more.
nicky		 Frankie!
marino		 No more! You see? Watch!
nicky		 Frankie! Frankie, you piece of shit!
marino		Fuck you, you motherfuck!
nicky		Fuckin' punk, motherfucker! Piece of shit!
marino		No more fuckin' dirty work!
nicky		 No, no, no, no!
marino		 Take him out! Take this motherfucker out!
nicky		 Frankie, leave the kid alone. He's still breathin'. He's still breathin'. Leave him alone. Frankie.
marino		All right. Strip him.
nicky		 No balls, you got no fuckin' balls. Oh, Dominick. Oh, Dom.
nicky		 Dominick.
marino		Come on, come on. Bury 'em.
ace		 Yeah.
ambulance driver		 You sure are lucky, mister.
ace		 Still not sure?
race announcer		 They're off and running...
ace		 Probable, but may be questionable. All right. Well, let me know as soon as you can find out.
****Dialogues from script :Cast_Away.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Catch_Me_If_You_Can.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Catwoman.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cecil_B.txt****

sinclair		(Moving the final "S"
sinclair		 Have you met her yet?
sinclair		You promise?
honey		Ah, what a town! HONEY is dressed for the premiere in an elegant evening gown and her black hair is cut perfectly in the Louise Brooks style that has become her signature. She continues her press conference under the watchful eyes of her press agent CHARLES and her long-time assistant LIBBY, both of whom are also dressed for the premiere. ROOM SERVICE employees stand by, ready to serve.
honey		I tell everybody in Hollywood, when you shoot on location in Baltimore, you don't need to bring all the crew from Los Angeles. Baltimore really ia the best!...
honey		Look at this dump of a town! HONEY turns to her long suffering assistant, LIBBY. The press is gone and they are alone.
honey		Get me the fuck back to L.A. If one more asshole mentions a crab cake to me, I think I'll puke.
libby		 Did you try the steamed crabs? They're red and...
honey		No I didn't! I'm not interested in any kind of meal you have to beat with a mallet... A knock is heard at hotel door.
charles		Your limousine is here, Miss Whitlock. You look beautiful.
honey		 Thank you Charles, darling. We'll be right with you. I'm excited. CHARLES exits.
honey		 Do you think Pat Nixon got fucked in this hotel room?
honey		It's called the "Presidential Suite" isn't it?
libby		Yes...but...
honey		I BET SHE DID! Call the manager and ask him!
honey		It's your  to ask, Libby! Call downstairs and find out if Pat Nixon got fucked in my hotel room! I want to know!
libby		 The hotel manager said "No." Pat Nixon never stayed here,
libby		Well. . .sort of. I mean you told me...
honey		I was kidding Libby. He must think you're a complete lunatic! Good God, you'd do anything! A HOTEL MAID pushing a cart of towels and bathroom supplies comes around a corner and is completely star-struck.
maid		Good luck, Miss Whitlock! HONEY's face freezes in horror as elevator doors open and she is led inside.
honey		 Did you hear what that little bitch said to me?
libby		She didn't know.
honey		In show business we say "break a leg." NEVER fucking "Good Luck"!
honey		That cocksucker put a curse on my whole fucking premiere! HOTEL GUESTS let out a cry of shock at HONEY's language.
honey		Mayor Fenwick! LIBBY and CHARLES look to one another relieved as HOTEL GUESTS stumble out of elevator, shaking their heads in disgust.
mayor		Miss Whitlock, what an honor! They pose together as PRESS snaps away.
honey		I love what you've done with this city.
mayor		And Baltimore loves you back!  I, Adam Fenwick, Mayor of the City of Baltimore, do hereby proclaim April 29th to be Honey Whitlock Day in Maryland and do command this observation to all of our citizens. Whereas...
petie		 6:41pm.
sinclair		 10-4, Petie. SINCLAIR nods gravely to LYLE the projectionist who picks up a 35mm metal film can and sneaks up behind MR. STILLINGS who is looking down from projection booth to the premiere CROWD filling the theater below.
sinclair		(In full command, over walkie,
lewis		(Into walkie, as he searches
chardonnay		 Ticket, please... 18. Cut back to EXTERIOR HARBOR COURT HOTEL. 18. Closeup of HONEY WHITLOCK's furious face as she stares in horror at awaiting white stretch limousine driven by
charles		What's the matter, Miss Whitlock?
honey		A fucking white limousine?!
libby		Oh nobody will know, we're in Baltimore...
honey		I'm not Liberace's boyfriend, for Chrissakes...My contract says black limousines only!
libby		The charity probably made the arrangements. It was an innocent mistake.
mayor		 Break a leg, Miss Whitlock! RODNEY, in a panic, keeps checking his watch.
rodney		Excuse me, ma'am, but Security's gonna have my ass if we're late...
honey		(Turning on him with a
ticket buyer		 The Heart Fund must be thrilled at the turnout.
dinah		It's for a wonderful cause... Thanks for your support. (Between customers, sneakily
honey		 "Some Kind Of Happiness" is a
sinclair		 7:06pm...The Big Snatch. HONEY steps from limo and waves like a true star to roar of approval from crowd as PRESS blinds her with flashbulbs.
sinclair		 Good evening, Miss Whitlock, and welcome to the historic Senator Theater.
little william		 Get off me, ugly.
cecil		I fuckin' hate car chase scenes!
petie		(Flooring the accelerator,
lyle		But it lead to the "French Connection."
lewis		And lead to "Smokey and The Bandit" and that kinda shit! PETIE sees another cop car speeding up behind him in the rear view mirror. DINAH leans out limo window and fires gun back'at cop car.
petie		 Yeah, Part fucking Two, 1980!...
cherish		 Long live pornography!
raven		 Your mother sucks cocks in hell! HEAVY METAL KIDS look at each other in horror and run
suburban lady		Sinclair, is that you? PETIE turns down radio and GANG freezes.
cecil		 Hi, Mrs. Waltrup.
suburban lady		Did you win the lottery?
suburban lady		I don't go to the movies much, I wait for the video.
cecil		Not me, I like the big screen.
suburban lady		Say hello to your mom and dad for me.
cecil		I sure will. SUBURBAN LADY makes right on red and pulls off.
cecil		 Casting has been completed! PETIE peels out in other direction. 53. Cut to EXTERIOR "SPROCKET HOUSE," a run-down, 53. seemingly abandoned warehouse in an industrial part of t:he city. The moon is full and the quiet is interrupted by faint sirens in the distance. Suddenly, like a low-rent Bat Cave, the large industrial garage doors swing open and the white limo speeds inside. 54. Dissolve to INTERIOR SPROCKET HOUSE. HONEY's 54. "dressing room"; a bizarrely decorated prison cell fit for a movie queen. HONEY is blindfolded, gagged and tied to a director's chair with her name printed on the back, still wearing her torn and soiled premiere gown. LEWIS, now dressed in terrorist punk outfit removes HONEY's blindfold and gag as she sputters in terror. We see LEWIS has D-A-V-I-D L-Y-N-C-H tattooed on his fingers. HONEY's e yes light up in terror as she sees CECIL, now attired in insane grunge Cecil B. DeMille inspired outfit being lowered by PETIE on jerry-rigged film crane. "Otto Preminger" is tattooed on CECIL's bicep.
cecil		.Hello, I'm Cecil B. DeMented and I'm your new director... HONEY stares in confused horror.
cecil		I'd like you to meet your co-stars ...I call them the "Sprocket Holes." HONEY looks over in fear as the SPROCKET HOLES, now changed from their theater uniforms into their own scary "terrorist chic" fashions, gather around CECIL in a "crew-shot from hell" pose.
cecil		This is Cherish... CHERISH, now heavily made-up and dressed "riot-girl" style, in a "SINEMA" T-shirt, steps forward. We see "Andy Warhol" tattooed on her thigh.
cherish		Hi, I played you in lots of porno movies. "Some Kind Of Happiness"? I've already shot it - only it's called "Some Kind Of Horniness."
cecil		Lyle? LYLE takes a big huff of glue in plastic bag and steps forward. He is dressed in scarily in 1970's junky wear meets 90's Hollywood sleaze, and sports a "Herschell Gordon Lewis" tattoo across his skinny chest.
lyle		Hi, I'm Lyle and I'm your leading man. I've had a boner for you for years. HONEY pales.
cecil		 Don't worry, we've all taken a vow of celibacy for celluloid. No one gets laid until we've finished our movie. We're horny... CHERISH starts writhing sexily.
cecil		.but our film comes first. CECIL gently shoves her away as SPROCKET HOLES undulate in sexual frustration.
cecil		.And now for the crew. PAM the popcorn girl swaggers over carrying a beat-up vintage 16mm movie camera and aims it at HONEY's face. She is wearing a black para-military jump suit and we
pam		I'm Pam, the director of photography and you'd better hit your mark! CHARDONNAY, now done up in outrageous homegirl gangster look, carries an old wrecked Nagra sound recorder and spins her microphone boom pole like lethal numchucks before raising it over HONEY's head, revealing the "Spike Lee" tattoo on her stomach.
chardonnay		.and remember - SPEAK UP, BITCH! I'm Chardonnay and I do the sound. LEWIS proudly steps forward, menacingly holding staple gun like a weapon.
lewis		We met. I'm Lewis, the art director. I hope you'll be comfortable here... HONEY looks around cell and sees giant stills blown up from her past films showing her in physical and emotional distress.
raven		Hi, I'm Raven and I'm a Satanist. I'll be doing your makeup... HONEY stares back in confusion.
raven		You look so pale... RAVEN suddenly slaps HONEY across face and HONEY cries out in shock.
raven		Sorry... but Satan says... you need color! RODNEY, the biker "bodyguard," now in S&M leather get-up steps toward HONEY carrying a rat-tail comb and a hair dye applicator bottle. His "Almodovar" tattoo is a beauty.
rodney		Call me Rodney. Tomorrow I'm bleaching your hair out platinum and I should warn you...I FUCKING HATE ROOTS! PETIE, the sexy hillbilly "chauffeur," now dressed in redneck militant garb and featuring a "Fassbinder" tattoo, steps forward.
petie		Hey, I'm Petie, remember me, "the trailer trash"? I'll be your driver. I'll take you anywhere... anywhere but home!! (Laughs evilly as he
dinah		 I'm Dinah, Cecil's prodcer and I do everything! I've been knocking down box office money from every big Hollywood hit for years to pay for this
newsman		. So once again, our top story. Sylvia Mallory, the fifty-two year old chairwoman of the Maryland Heart Fund died tonight at Union Memorial Hospital following an on stage heart attack she suffered in the middle of Honey Whitlock's kidnapping at tonight's Baltimore movie premiere... SPROCKET HOLES stare in amazement at TV screen, the enormity of their act barely sinking in.
newsman		.the teenage gang of cinema terrorists who apparently infiltrated the staff of the Senator Theater are now eligible for the death penalty in the State of Maryland... CECIL nods to DINAH to turn it off, which she does. SPROCKET HOLES gulp and look to their leader for guidance. CECIL steps forward, getting right in HONEY's terrified face.
cecil		Miss Whitlock, we're going to make our first film and NOBODY'S going to stop us. Lots of kids dream of making a movie... SPROCKET HOLES smile in brain-washed enthusiasm.
cecil		.but only the ones willing to dia for it succeed. HONEY looks into CECIL's face and lets out a sob of terror.
rodney		You're going right off the deep end of the Clairol color chart! RODNEY squirts on more dye.
honey		It's burning my scalp! Ow! Ow! Ow!
rodney		Beauty comes from agony! Everyone knows that!
raven		I haven't had this much fun since my last livestock mutilation... RAVEN lunges towards HONEY's eyebrows and painfully tweezes out a hair.
honey		Oh God! That really hurt!
raven		"In the House of Pain, there
rodney		Let's wash it out! RODNEY yanks HONEY's head back as RAVEN pours scalding water over her head.
honey		(Screams in pain,
honey		 .I mean... not little. . .10w budget. . .you know, cult.
cecil		Good morning, Miss Whitlock. Know your lines?
honey		Please...Mr. DeMento? Is that correct?
honey		You have the wrong star for this film...
cecil		Nonsense, Miss Whitlock...
dinah		(Ignoring passing police
cecil		Ah Fidget. Fidget, my little genius, :Fidget!
fidget		(Not missing a beat,
cecil		(To HONEY, ever the
honey		 The Screen Actors Guild will hear about this and I mean it! HONEY lets gown fall to floor and steps out of it. She is wearing beautiful lingerie.
honey		Oh, God, I look terrible!  CECIL and SPROCKET HOLES applaud triumphantly.
dinah		 Alright, LET'S LOCK IT UP!
cecil		Can't you say good morning to Lewis? He worked hard on this set with a budget of zero.
honey		Good... morning.
cecil		Our picture is called "Raving Beauty." You play the insane owner of a failed art theater who along with her film fanatic boyfriend Lyle. . .Lyle come on over... LYLE enters dressed in hepcat 70's junkie splendor wear.
cecil		.and her violence prone daughter, Cherish... CHERISH enters in eye-popping "super model goes bad" look as HONEY's eyes light up in horror.
honey		"Daughter"?!
cecil		.Together, the three of you vow to start a revolution to destroy mainstream cinema...
cecil		You dare to tell Cecil B. DeMented you refuse!
honey		I'm too young to play her mother!
honey		 It doesn't feel right... I'm just not motivated...
cecil		(Advancing on her with
cecil		There are no creative differences on a Cecil B. DeMented set, Miss Whitlock. Got that? One day you'll thank me for saving you from your bad career. 
cecil		.and ACTION! CECIL moves around stage, making cliche director's frame with his hands as PAM and CHARDONNAY rehearse camera and sound moves behind him. All the camera equipment has "UNIV OF MD" stenciled on it that has been scratched out half-heartedly.
lyle		 Hey, Cherish, it's 8:00. Am I supposed to get this show on the screen or what!?
cherish		 I didn't sell one ticket, Lyle. Nobody came!
honey		 It's that fucking new multiplex that opened in the mall, isn't it? CECIL's face turns to stone as the rest of the SPROCKET HOLES watch, shocked at HONEY's wooden performance.
cherish		I heard they were sold out last night, Mom!
honey		 Somebody's gotta pay for this insult! HONEY looks out and sees SPROCKET HOLES aping CECIL's self-destructive review of her reading; DINAH slaps her own face, LEWIS staples his own leg; RODNEY jams the sharp end of a rat-tail comb in his ear. This title will be replaced by a more recent critically panned big film hit we can get the rights to.
honey		 Death to those who support mainstream cinema!
pam		Camera rolling.
chardonnay		(Spinning sound boom
pam		Mark it! DINAH marks the take.
lyle		 Hey, Cherish, it's 8:00. Am I supposed to get this show on the screen or what?
lyle		Pasolini's playing and we have an empty theater? HONEY enters and does the lines convincingly.
cherish		I heard they were sold out last night, Mom.
lyle		Not for "THE FLINTSTONES"?!
honey		 Somebody's gotta pay for this insult! CECIL silently mouths the dialogue along with HONEY.
honey		From the empty movie seats of every good movie theater in America, we will rise to take back the screen!
honey		Death to those who support mainstream cinema!
cecil		That's more like it, Miss Whitlock! CHERISH gives HONEY a suddenly jealous look.
honey		 To be frank, Cecil, I would never do this picture in my real film life. The whole message is stupid - ask theater owners in any country and they'll tell you. Hollywood makes the best films in the world and I'm proud to be part of that system.
cecil		 Let's move on!
cecil		The first take is the only real truth...
honey		But you can't cut the film with only a master!
cecil		There are no rules in outlaw cinema, Miss Whitlock, only edges. We believe technique to be nothing more than failed style. You see, I've had a vision... All the SPROCKET HOLES smile like film zombies to
cecil		.and that vision is called "ultimate reality." The rest of our film is shot in real life, with real people ... . and yes, with real terror. 63. Flip wipe to EXTERIOR SPROCKET HOUSE. Industrial 63. doors swing open and freshly painted phony FEDEX truck comes speeding out.
rodney		I see a fucking root already! He lunges to HONEY's scalp with hair dye applicator bottle.
honey		Owwww! Please, Cecil. I'm a much better actress in the studio...
cecil		That's not what TIME Magazine has to say.
lewis		Your picture's gonna lose thirty million dollars.
honey		 Cecil, give yourself up! It's not too late...
lewis		Our film goes into profit the day we sell the first ticket!
petie		 How big is his dick, anyway?
honey		 Come to Hollywood with me and I promise I'll get you a job as a production assistant on a real Hollywood movie.
cecil		.and remember there are no bad takes in a Cecil B. DeMented picture - just keep the scene going
lyle		 I never took this much acid
cherish		(Primping with FIDGET'S help,
honey		Cecil, please don't make me do this scene...
cecil		Your Hollywood system stole our sex and co-opted our violence so there's nothing left for our kind of movies... except this!
dinah		Roll camera.
pam		Camera rolling.
chardonnay		Speed. DINAH marks the take.
cecil		(Aiming his gun at HONEY,
honey		 How dare you play this rotten movie?! PAM pans the camera to BOX OFFICE LADY whose eyes light up in fear at seeing the "actors" in their terrorist outfits.
cecil		(Yelling to "actors" into
honey		 $7.50 for this piece of shit?! BOX OFFICE LADY screams and locks herself inside as HONEY spray-paints S-H-I-T across box office glass.
lyle		(To HONEY, breaking out
cecil		I am Cecil B. DeMented and you're in my movie! Look in the camera and ruin a take and you're both dead! CANDY COUNTER GIRLS get nervy, eager to be in any movie.
lyle		You call THAT a SMALL??!!
manager		(Walking right into
manager		 Please ...I didn't make this movie ... . I'm just the manager... CHARDONNAY knocks him out cold with one smack of her boom pole.
cecil		 Say the lines!
honey		(To AUDIENCE, ferociously
cherish		Come on, Cecil, I want a little "action" of my own!
cecil		 I'm trying to write, Cherish! HONEY, looking more relaxed, with only one leg cuffed to director's chair, watches herself on film in the arty, grainy, but very striking footage. RAVEN does a "devil dance" with herself and ritualistically drinks from a skull head.
fidget		Miss Whitlock?
honey		Oh, craft service. Thank you, Fidget, but I never drink when I'm working but you're very kind. Do your parents know where you are tonight?
fidget		They're probably mad...
honey		Don't you think you ought to call them...?
honey		You know that's nonsense! Go ahead, call them up. I bet they miss you... LYLE ruins everything by staggering over, scarily high.
lyle		Hey Honey, want some crack?
honey		I most certainly do NOT, Lyle. I can't believe you'd be a drug addict in the 90's - it's so retro.
lyle		Before I was a drug addict, I had so many different problems, Honey. Now I just have one - drugs. It gave my life a real focus. Cut to CECIL on crane with CHERISH as they hornily watch CHERISH on film.
cherish		 How can you see me on film and not want to fuck me?!
cecil		 I S-Q want to fuck you, Cherish, but you know I can't...
cherish		Why not?!
cecil		 I'm not "all your directors," Cherish.
cecil		 SOLDIERS OF CINEMA, save your sexual energy for the silver screen... SPROCKET HOLES break apart and look up to CECIL.
cecil		Our footage is stronger than Otto Preminger's... CHERISH licks CECIL's tattoo.
cecil		.creepier and darker than David Lynch's... LEWIS scratches a sexual note in the music as he lusts towards CHARDONNAY who sings out a torrid moan.
cecil		.more exploitative than Herschel Gordon Lewis. LYLE humps the projector, out of his mind.
cecil		.and more violent than Sam Fuller..- DINAH writhes in horniness, pulls her pistol and fires at "The Films of David Lean" coffee table book she uses as a target.
cecil		We will rise above our raging hormones to a new level of cinema unrest! Cut to FIDGET sneakily dialing parents on phone as HONEY nods her support.
cecil		. Do whatever it takes to avoid sexual release! Get as drunk as Sam Peckinpah... PAM guzzles whisky.
cecil		As high as Rainer Werner Fassbinder!... LYLE sniffs fumes from an aerosol can of metallic paint.
cecil		But stay celibate for celluloid! Cut back to FIDGET on phone. We see his suburban MOM answer on split screen.
fidget		I'm fine. The movie's going great, Mom!
cecil		.Feel the black humor of Almodovar... RODNEY dances a wild S&M step and tries to look PETIE in the eyes.
cecil		.the satanic fury of Kenneth Anger! RAVEN, possessed by the devil, rolls her eyes back in devil horniness.
cecil		.the racial tension of Spike Lee... CHARDONNAY lets out a soulful wail as she dances in sexual abandon.
cecil		(Spotting FIDGET on the phone and giving him the
fidget's mom		 Hello? Fidget, talk to me! Hello? We'll come and get you! Tell us where you are! Hello? Hello? FIDGET hangs up phone and starts playing pocket pool frantically. HONEY sighs and shakes her head in disappointment.
lewis		 If we can't have sex, can't we at least make money?
chardonnay		 Yeah, Lewis thinks I could have a hit record!
cecil		Oh, Andy Warhol, we worship you from the new cinema underground...
all		Oh, Andy Warhol, we worship you from the new cinema underground... HONEY guzzles down the martini. CHERISH prays the hardest, still sexually aroused.
cecil		.help us to use our sexual frustrations as you did for the future of outlaw film!
cecil		(In a booming voice to all the SPROCKET HOLES
rodney		 I see that fucking brown color...
honey		Please Rodney, those aren't roots - they're scabs on my scalp from the dye and they're raw! RODNEY sadistically squirts her roots with dye as HONEY lets out a cry of agony.
honey		OWWWW!! Please... please...  Raven, you're a pretty girl, you could escape this madness...
raven		Escape to what, Honey?
honey		Well ...I'm sorry to hear that...
raven		And one day I'm gonna commit revolutionary suicide for celluloid...
honey		OWWWW! Rodney, why do you want to hurt me? Gay men are supposed to be gentle...
rodney		 That's just it, Honey! I'm not gay. I'm straight and I fucking hate it! Petie loves me but I can't love him back! I've tried! I kiss him and all I feel is beard.
rodney		(Suddenly snapping back
raven		It's not Honey's fault.
rodney		Make them pay for me thinking about pussy! RODNEY rips out a clump of HONEY'S teased hair with brush.
honey		Oh God, stop...
cecil		Good morning, Miss Whitlock.
cecil		Whatever for? Your old career is over. . .but your comeback has just begun... CECIL nods to DINAH to start tape and we see a TEENAGE BOY on news in front of vandalized Timonium theater.
teenage boy		.I was in the audience when they attacked and I'll tell you. . .Honey Whitlock was awesome! HONEY looks in confusion to CECIL who smiles proudly back. Tape jumps to a different news show showing TEEN GIRL, wearing a handmade "CECIL RULES" T-shirt. She stands out front of the popular local art house, The Charles Theater.
teen girl		I think Honey Whitlock is right - most films suck and it's time somebody did something about it... HONEY catches herself half smiling at the favorable mention. Tape cuts to TIMONIUM THEATER MANAGER, his head now bandaged.
theater manager		.Nobody forced her to be in that movie, I could see that, but she was damn good! Scarier than hell, if you ask me! She looked different from her other films, too...I don't know... younger. HONEY's face lights up but CECIL quickly brings her down to earth.
cecil		There are still some people who don't understand our work... DINAH zaps on TV and we see MIDDLE-AGED MAN in suit behind podium at press conference. Subtitle identifies him as "MARYLAND FILM COMMISSIONER."
film commissioner		Cecil B. DeMented, the Maryland Film Commission refuses to be intimidated by your pathetic gang of cinematic misfits... SPROCKET HOLES let out a howl of disgust as HONEY pales. 77. Cut to "PRIDE OF BALTIMORE," a tall tourist 77. attraction docked in the Inner Harbor, the popular retail area on the water near the Convention Center. The "Hollywood Oyster Bash" is in progress as FILM COMMISSIONER continues his speech.
film commissioner		.That's why we're here today on "The Pride of Baltimore" to celebrate location shooting in Maryland with many of the brave production and studio heads from out of state who also say NO to cinema terrorism.
cecil		.And this time somebody might have to die! 79. Wipe to EXTERIOR SPROCKET HOUSE. 79. Doors swing open and CECIL's speeding van, driven by PETIE and now hurriedly painted over to resemble UTZ Potato Chips delivery vehicle, flies out and careens around the corner.
cecil		(Finishing up last page of script, to HONEY, LYLE
lyle		We'll let these fat cat producers know!
cherish		Yeah, that Maryland is not safe for their kind of movies!
honey		Cherish, this is America. They have the freedom to make bad films if they so desire...
cecil		Not anymore they don't!
cherish		 You think just 'cause you made "real" movies that you're better than me, don't you?
honey		Oh, please...
cherish		Do you know w I became a porno star?! SPROCKET HOLES groan, they've heard it before.
cherish		I guess you are. "Jingle Balls, Jingle Balls," my stupid brother started singing. You think that's funny?
honey		No...not at all.
cecil		It's all behind you now, Cherish.  We're here...
film commissioner		Ask anyone who's shot their film in Maryland! We have the exact location you need for your next production...
cherish		 "Fuck her!" yelled my grandmother.
cecil		It's ok, Cherish. This way..
lyle		Hey Honey, nervous? Wanna try some "Special K"?
honey		I'm working, Lyle!
cherish		"Human pile," screamed my grandfather as they all jumped on! Do you know what a human pile is?! CECIL leads them up rickety steps to second floor trap door.
honey		I. .I can figure it out...
film commissioner		.From mountains to beaches... small towns to urban settings... OYSTER SHUCKER goes to get more oysters in kitchen and DINAH jumps him from behind holding a shucker to his neck.
film commissioner		.The Maryland Film Commission pledges to work with state and federal agencies... A WAITER opens closet door and PAM punches him in
film commissioner		. to make your shoot here in Maryland... PRODUCERS and STUDIO EXECS suck down oysters from PAM's tray.
film commissioner		.as inexpensive and trouble free as possible! CHARDONNAY hits WAITRESS over head with boom pole and grabs another tray of oysters.
film commissioner		That's why we call Baltimore "The Hollywood of the East"! PRODUCERS and STUDIO EXECS applaud as FILM COMMISSIONER takes his seat.
cherish		(Climaxing her tirade
honey		I. .I believe you.
cecil		A simple little stunt.
honey		It doesn't say anything about a stunt in your rewrite.
cherish		Suffer for celluloid!
honey		Maybe with an air bag or some kind of safety precaution...
lyle		Just call me irresponsible... 
cherish		Outlaw cinema has no limits!
cecil		 Prove yourself, Honey. HONEY spots a marine police boat quickly darting behind "Pride of Baltimore," filled with MARINE
honey		 Alright, Cecil. I'm a professional... Roll the camera.
cecil		(Hissing excitedly to CHERISH and LYLE, and handing
cecil		Don't worry, they're just props. After your first line, throw the grenade at the Film Commission. Nobody will get hurt.
honey		But there are bullets in this gun...
cecil		Blanks ...trust me Honey. HONEY gulps.
chardonnay		Speed. DINAH marks the take. PARTY GUESTS fix their hair, smile, thinking they are in a promotional film.
cecil		 I kidnapped the right star, didn't I? HONEY smiles weakly.
film commissioner		No...please...I was only following studio orders. HONEY throws what she thinks is her "prop" grenade. The FILM COMMISSIONER dives out of the way and it explodes. HONEY, horrified that the "effect" was real looks up to CECIL but he has vanished. Suddenly CECIL enters the ship "directing" through megaphone.
cecil		ALL EXTRAS - keep eating the oysters or you will be shot and killed!
dinah		(Shoving party guests
lyle		 Didn't you produce that foreign language hit that was remade badly in English?
cherish		 Didn't you just greenlight another new movie based on a video game?
lyle		Help me, Cherish. I'm stuck in a K-hole and I can't get out! CHERISH, firing her gun wildly, runs to LYLE and manages to pull him "off set" as HONEY freezes in terror deciding between her director or the POLICE. CHARDONNAY fires her gun and accidentally blasts her ears over earphone and lunges to turn down volume control on her Nagra.
honey		(Suddenly jumping back
honey		DON'T SHOOT! I'm Honey Whitlock and I've been kidnapped! HONEY is shocked when the POLICE tackle her and place her under arrest. DINAH grabs FILM COMMISSIONER and uses him as a human shield as she fires away, hitting several cops.
dinah		Picture's up.
pam		Roll camera.
chardonnay		Speed. DINAH marks the take.
cecil		It's your closeup, HONEY!
cecil		(Ducking bullets but
cecil		 Film these fuckers, Pam.
dinah		Picture's up.
pam		Camera rolling.
chardonnay		Speed.
lyle		 YEAH? Well your movies bite the big one! FAMILIES start throwing their concession stand candies at LYLE, CECIL and SPROCKET HOLES and advance towards them.
cecil		(Beginning to retreat,
honey		 But Cecil...you didn't write me any dialogue...
cecil		You're one of us now, you know what to say!
driver		FUCK HIM! He'll never get distribution!
cecil		.The slash and burn of the white hot metal will brand you forever with the logo of Cecil B. DeMented... Wear the privileged scar of cinema sainthood with pride and horniness... LYLE projects the dailies of the day on wall as he pops Percodans. HONEY, out of her cell and unguarded for the first time, watches her "stunt" footage with pride as she gets the vodka bottle from their filthy dirty freezer and goes about the ritual of making the perfect martini. LEWIS, proudly displaying his brand, DJ's the music as CHERISH writhes in a sexy go-go dance for CECIL. CHARDONNAY painfully caresses her fresh brand and wails out the chorus of "DeMented Forever." HONEY empties ice tray into martini shaker.
cecil		.There is no such thing as family. We are the orphans of cinema and without our movie, we do not exist!... PETIE approaches CHERISH with the red hot brand and she eagerly sticks out her. arm.
cherish		My real life began in the cinema... PETIE brands CHERISH's arm.
cherish		 And it will end in the cinema!
pam		 From the valleys of Lebanon... PETIE brands her arm and she laughs at the pain.
dinah		.to the jungles of Cuba... PETIE brands her arm and she smiles in fanaticism.
lyle		 Film revolutionaries can never be stopped! PETIE brands him but LYLE feels no pain.
cecil		 .Rodney died for the roots of cinematic rebellion... HONEY stops making martini and quickly checks her hair to see if any dark roots are showing and smiles at
cecil		.and he's now in cinema hell where one day we'll all be reunited. RODNEY brands RAVEN.
fidget's mom		.Fidget is a good boy and we love him...
fidget's dad		.And we'll stand behind our son no matter what he's done.
fidget		 NO! I want to go home!
lyle		They wouldn't let you see R-rated films as a child!
dinah		They've never been to a midnight movie! FIDGET starts to crack as his hand creeps in his pocket.
chardonnay		They enjoy classic TV sitcoms turned into feature length films!
cherish		They've never rented a porno movie! FIDGET starts whacking nervously.
cecil		 And to top it off...they talk out loud in the theater once the feature has begun! SPROCKET HOLES grimace in horror. Even HONEY shakes her head in disgust as she pours martini into glass.
honey		That really is unforgivable, Fidget!
cecil		And you...Honey?
honey		No, Cecil... CECIL nods to DINAH who plays the tape. HONEY sees her ex-husband, a handsome movie star on screen with JAY LENO on "The Tonight Show."
raven		Satan loves you, Honey, and so do I. Tape cuts to LIBBY, HONEY's assistant, talking to ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT. Subtitle on TV read "Honey Whitlock's Personal Assistant."
libby		.Honey Whitlock was always attracted to the wrong kind of man. It wouldn't surprise
film commissioner		 Cecil B. DeMented, you can never stop Hollywood! The Maryland Film Commission is pleased to announce there will be nna delay in tomorrow's once-secret start date for the 65 million dollar,
film commissioner		.starring Michael J. Fox! Tape cuts to MICHAEL J. FOX dressed in Forrest Gump look. Subtitle reads "Live in Baltimore."
honey		 This time, .1 have a fucking vision! CECIL's eyes light up in madman glee. 105. Cut to EXTERIOR "STUDIO TWELVE," the one 105. professional sound stage in Baltimore located in the picturesque downtown neighborhood of Fells Point. Next day. A giant FILM CREW, all wearing "Gump Again" t-shirts, hustle and bustle on the first day of the film shoot, hauling expensive film equipment inside, setting up catering trucks, craft service tables and the temporary dining areas for the entire FILM COMPANY. TEAMSTERS oversee crew trucks, honey wagons and the star trailers, all the while guarding the set from any outside trouble. In the foreground, the Hiway Film Delivery Truck pulls up, hastily painted over to read "Rhebs Chocolates." We see PETIE behind the wheel, disguised in delivery uniform. TEAMSTER A steps over to check security.
petie		We got a delivery for Michael j. Fox from Paramount Studios.
director		You okay, Jean-Pierre? - need another camera rehearsal?
dinah		We're non-union and we're taking over this movie!
director		OK, let's shoot this sucker.
sound man		Speed! CHARDONNAY pulls gun on stupefied SOUND MAN as he listens through earphones on the side of the set. PETIE pistol whips the CRANE OPERATOR. CECIL, finally atop a real professional film crane, licks it in sudden sexual passion.
pam		 Mark it! CAMERA ASSISTANT marks the take.
large lady		That's a damn shame...
large lady		 I don't eat scavengers. You know what crabs eat? Fish feces.
director		 What the hell?
cecil		I I am Cecil B. DeMented and this picture is TERMINATED. PAM shoves Panavision camera off crane and it just E misses DIRECTOR as it smashes to floor.
director		(Horrified but being
pam		Mark it! FIDGET holds a terrified MICHAEL J. FOX and LARGE LADY at gunpoint as DINAH marks the take by suddenly banging DIRECTOR'S head on pole.
pam		Take one!
director		Are you this desperate for publicity, Honey Whitlock?
lyle		 No more per diems!
large lady		Please ...I'm a local hire - don't kill me!
cherish		 No more meal penalties!
shop steward		Yes, ma'am. We're off the clock...
director		 The Directors Guild of America will bring down their swift sword of justice on you rank amateurs! Suddenly TEAMSTER B opens fire and shoots LYLE in the back of the head right in the middle of CECIL's take. MICHAEL J. FOX and DIRECTOR dive for cover under park bench as LARGE LADY runs for her life.
lyle		 Drugs.. .give me drugs... RAVEN runs forward with a bottle of poppers and gives LYLE a snort. He smiles and twitches in final death rattle.
cecil		 It's OK! We got it on film!
pam		 Visions of light! HONEY gulps as bullets whiz around her head and then jumps right back into character.
cherish		 .my derriere... Cut to AUDIENCE of single men watching hornily as whole rows of seats vibrate from audience "participation."
cherish		Hey buddy, I'm in a little bit of trouble...
sniffles		Oh my God, it's you!
cherish		Yeah, that's my ass alright and it's in trouble. Can me and my friends come inside?
sniffles		You sure can! We sell your tits.  CHERISH signals and CECIL, HONEY and SPROCKET HOLES come inside.
sniffles		Two.
cherish		(On screen, squirming around bed, trying to find her
groupie		 I'll be your cinema slave. HONEY blushes but smiles back at him.
sniffles		Who? There's nobody here but us whackers! TEAMSTER J punches SNIFFLES in mouth.
cherish		 Oooohhh, Pellett! You're just like all the rest! Oohh, Pellett! Oohhh! TEAMSTERS I & J enter back of theater, look to the screen in sudden disgust and then spot CECIL and SPROCKET HOLES in AUDIENCE. LEWIS, CHARDONNAY, PAM, PETIE and RAVEN watch hornily along with moaning AUDIENCE as a frustrated FIDGET attempts to play pocket pool with his injured bleeding hand. Even HONEY is a little turned on and dares to catch GROUPIE's eyes again.
groupie		(Muttering to HONEY in a
groupie		Bomb "Planet Hollywood."
honey		Get ahold of yourself... Their car pulls up to TICKET SELLER.
groupie		 Two adults.
ticket seller		Ten dollars.
honey		(Suddenly the consummate
ticket seller		A big ham! What else?!
cecil		This is it - our final location.
cherish		 We're gonna get laid!
cecil		Nobody leaves this drive-in alive until we finish our film.
girl fan		Or those last minute fuck-head ticket buyers who enter the theater after the feature has begun! GIRL FAN sees CECIL, badly injured, as he limps past car with CHERISH to concession stand.
groupie		Come on, you didn't know... On drive-in screen, HONEY's character clutches the cat, races down steps to first floor of her house and sees HIT MAN #2 briefly staring through front door. Her CHARACTER runs to kitchen in fear and drops cat to get butcher knife out of kitchen drawer. RAVEN and FIDGET, both injured, touch up and adjust HONEY's final insane terrorist-chic look.
fidget		None of your old movies count. CAT, on screen, scurries through "cat-door" cut in kitchen wall and escapes outside. In car next to HONEY, REDNECK MOM, POP and DORKY KID watch the movie. MOM is weary "Honey Whitlock" wig.
redneck mom		I bet she's Miss Phony Baloney in real life.
redneck dad		She don't look so hot to me. I prefer Meg Ryan or somebody younger.
dorky kid		 Can I get more food?
redneck mom		 I told you to stop slurping! REDNECK MOM suddenly sees HONEY WHITLOCK and quickly turns back around.
redneck mom		 Oh my God-don't look now...
manager		Who is it?
cecil		Cecil B. DeMented.
manager		(Thinking it's one of
redneck mom		Hello, Eyewitness News? Honey Whitlock is in Row 19 of the Bengies Drive-In... I seen her with my own fuckin' eyes and I don't want no ham...I want money!
honey		No! Bad reviews can't hurt me anymore!
fidget		We're beyond the critics' reach!
raven		Who cares what anybody thinks of our movie except Satan?! HONEY, FIDGET and RAVEN pull GROUPIE away towards concession stand.
cecil		Hello, this is Cecil B. DeMented speaking to you directly from this theater... CECIL FANS A, B & C jump out of their cars happily along with other supporters. REDNECK FAMILY guiltily starts up engine of car, hoping to escape along with other terrified FAMILIES. JOCKS A, B & C leap from car, ready for a fight as do other gung-ho CECIL ENEMIES.
cecil		(Speaking into theater
cecil		They want to detain some of you and put you in focus groups!
groupie		(Lunging for microphone,
fidget's dad		Fidget, it's your Dad. We're here with a psychiatrist...
fidget's mom		 Fidget, it's Mommy. We know you've seen too many R-rated movies and we're here to help... Suddenly mini-cams from other local news teams speed into drive-in behind them.
cecil's dad		Sinclair, it's your father...
cecil		(In a rage, into
cecil's dad		I know you are sick in the head, but whatever mado you think you could direct?
cecil		(To SPROCKET HOLES, gasping
cecil		.Live and in person! And she's dying to meet you! GROUPIE proudly shines the headlights of his car towards the roof of the concession stand as other CECIL FANS follow suit. 162. EXTERIOR ROOF OF CONCESSION STAND. Lit like a sound 162. stage from car headlights. LEWIS backs out on roof pulling PAM with camera in MANAGER's wheelchair that she is using as a dolly. CHARDONNAY follows with boom pole to record th' sound. PETIE and FIDGET struggle to carry CECIL on "set" in a makeshift stretcher as RAVEN applies makeup to his wounds. CHERISH is at his side, caressing him lovingly.
cecil		Honey, I've had a final vision. Would you set your hair on fire for our movie...?
cecil		 Prove yourself one more time... for your cast... HONEY looks into CHERISH's brainwashed face as her eyes roll back in her head, flash cut with "Directed by Andy Warhol" credit.
cecil		Your crew... SPROCKET HOLES stare back at HONEY in a fast montage of their insane faces hallucinating credits of their favorite directors: William Castle, Kenneth Anger, Sam Peckinpah, Spike Lee, David Lynch, Fassbinder. FIDGET holds a pitiful fire extinguisher.
cecil		Your fans... HONEY looks to GROUPIE in a sea of cheering FANS. He is finishing up carving HONEY's initials "H.W." in his forehead with a pop-top beer can tab.
cecil		.and for me, Cecil B. DeMented!
honey		But will it...make me a legend?
cecil		 You will be the eternal flame of cinema insanity. HONEY's eyes glaze over in cult madness.
honey		I'm.. . ready for my closeup, Mr. DeMented. RAVEN dabs HONEY's hair with gasoline from can. FIDGET painfully plays pocket pool and lights the torch.
cecil		The Martini shot... HONEY smiles nostalgically at the mention of her favorite drink.
cecil		 That, fellow Sprocket Holes, is a wrap!
cecil		(Defiantly to SWAT TEAMS as they throw tear gas at warring mob
cecil		(Dying but still horny,
fidget		 Hi Mom, hi Dad. FIDGET'S MOM and DAD'S eyes light up in parental love.
****Dialogues from script :Cedar_Rapids.txt****

draft:		June 12, 2009
bill krogstad		Ho-lee Christmas, knocked her outta the park, Roger! Out of the G-D park, you sonofagun! 2. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
roger lemke		Hell, I'm just a pretty face, Bill. That copy was all you. Do got one little gripe though, boss-- if you'd waited until after Cedar Rapids we could've said winner of the Two Diamonds four years running!
gwen lemke		So proud of you, Roggie. God, you rock. Doesn't your dad rock, boys?!
roger lemke		 Thank you. Thank you very much!
tim		 Oh, heck yeah. You were awesome.
roger lemke		Y'know what Tim, I want people to see the insurance game for what it really is-- it's a noble field. I believe that. Like I say, we're not just insuring vehicles and homes and that. Hell no. We're insuring people's dreams.
tim		Oh. Yeah. I say that, too... sometimes. 3. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
roger lemke		Well shit, you do, don't you? By god, I stole your line! Knew I'd heard that somewhere!
tim		Oh, no biggie...
roger lemke		Bummer they cut your little deal outta the ad, though.
tim		Ach. Y'know. Got left on the ol'...
tim		The ol' cutting room floor, right?  Whoa. Cake. Cool.
tim		There she is! How you feeling?
millie		Oh, it's no big whoop.
tim		Ta-da.  Quack, quack. D'you already have this guy? Wasn't sure. 5. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
millie		Gayle Syrstd gave me a Quackers for Secret Santa last year. I can probably trade with Nan, though.
tim		I know. But for you to miss a day of school, Millie... I can't remember you ever calling in sick when I had you.
millie		Well I wasn't going through menopause when you were in middle school now was I?
tim		Negative. Not to my knowledge. Not to my knowledge.
tim		I can try and... hold it, Mil. Can you...?
millie		Bring it home. Bring it home.
tim		I'm bringing it. Bringing it! Bringing it! D'aaaarrgho'awesome...
tim		Ooh, you make me live! You're my best friend!
millie		C'mon Tim, I can't hear.
tim		Sorry. But you are, babygirl.  You're my best friend.
millie		Tss. Goofball.
tim		 Ya mon, Bahama-mama.
millie		It's a little different I suppose-- a cruise. But...
tim		 Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait... Where's this coming from? We agreed on Wisconsin Dells for the honeymoon. It's what we agreed on.
millie		You've been to the Dells two dozen times...
tim		So? Roger and Gwen Lemke go to the Dells every year...
millie		Because they have children. Water parks are for children...
tim		Hello, Tommy Bartlett's Ski, Sky and Stage Show? It's not just a water park...
millie		Timothy, settle. You've never even left the state of Wisconsin. Barely left Brown Valley...
tim		What's so great about...? You're not... You're missing the... We agreed on the Dells.
millie		God rest her. Your mom was my best friend. But it's going on 20 years now. You gotta grow up. You gotta let go. You gotta live a life here. See?
tim		I'm living a perfectly fine life. I don't know why you'd want to...  8. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Hello... Oh, hey Bill...
wade		Guy had it all. Everything you'd ever want. Y'know he flew a Cessna? In his spare time?
millie		I always say people like that-- who live fast? They die hard. Look at River Phoenix.
wade		Everything you'd ever want.
millie		I just don't know. To do those things to yourself. Just perverted.  Who ever heard of such a thing? 9. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		I'm... Gwen, I'm so sorry. Roger is-- was-- is-- a personal hero to me. He just... he had it all. If there's...
pam		You just don't get it, Kurt...
kurt		Aw Christ, Pammy...
tim		Hang on guys, how's this sound-- you can both be right.  I know you're probably thinking, "Oh, an umbrella policy's only for rich people." You know what I say to that? Bull roar.
bill krogstad		Know how Roger used to get down there to Cedar Rapids? To the ASMI Convention? Any idea?
tim		Um. I'm with Kurt and Pam Gambsky...
bill krogstad		Flew himself. In a Cessna. Pilot.  It was all worked out. I was going to ease into retirement in July while Roger transitioned into his ownership role.
tim		Wait, Roger was going to buy Northlands?
bill krogstad		All worked out. Shit, Dione already put the down payment on a time share. Branson, Black Hills. Florida. Units all over the place.
tim		Holy cow. 11. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
bill krogstad		Yeah, whole deal. Now? Now I got my back up against Christ-knows-what. No Lemke, no buyer, the wife's spending like we won the goddamn Powerball. And what's worse, because of the way, y'know, the way Roger passed...
tim		The... belt and the lederhosen...?
bill krogstad		 Quote-unquote perverted, they're saying. Like Northlands has some kind of stain. Oh, I'm so goddamned tired...
tim		Is there...? Can I do anything to help, or...?
bill krogstad		We need those Two Diamonds more than ever, Tim. If I'm going to sell this company, we need people to feel OK about the Northlands brand.
tim		 Mm.
bill krogstad		I'd go myself but my daughter Kayla, the heavy one? She unearthed some Polack to marry her. I'm locked into that wedding over in Gladstone. No flex. Locked in. 12. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Whoa-whoa-wait. What are you saying?
bill krogstad		I'm not asking you to fill Roger Lemke's shoes. Not gonna happen. I'm asking you to deliver his presentation-- to bring me home those Two Diamonds.
tim		I can't go to ASMI. To Iowa. To Cedar Rapids, Iowa... Why can't Lila do it?
bill krogstad		C'mon Tim. Lila's about as charismatic as a bag of hair.
tim		Bill, I've never... I mean, I've dabbled in hog farm risk mitigation, but I'm no pro...
bill krogstad		You were what, 16, when I gave you that filing job? Right after your mom passed? Raising yourself pretty much, living all alone. And I'm thinking, now here's a kid. Here's a kid who's gonna go places.  ... woman the rest of your life?
tim		Millie and I are getting married.
bill krogstad		Tss, maybe three'll be a charm.  13. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
wade		Oh, hiya Tim.
tim		Hey. Wade. Hey. Is Millie...?
millie		Hi Tim.  Wade's cable's down.
tim		It's six AM...?
tim		Oh yeah. Those guys. Hilarious. Ha.
wade		Mm.
tim		 Well I just wanted to...
millie		So this is it then?  Tim's jetting off to Cedar Rapids this morning, Wade. Big deal insurance convention. Iowa.
wade		That right?
tim		It's only four days. 15. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
millie		Won't go to Germany for our honeymoon, but for work you can just gallivant around like Tom Petty or one of them?
tim		 Should we maybe talk in the...?
wade		Oh it don't bother me.
tim		If I don't try to do this, it's not just my job, Mil. There are four other employees whose lives are on the line. Plus Carol, who does part time seasonal work. So.
millie		It's not for certain a new owner would even keep you guys on.
tim		No, Bill said he'd make that part of any deal...
millie		Believe you me, Bill Krogstad is looking out for one guy. And that's Bill Krogstad.
wade		 Krogstad.
tim		It's... Oh, who am I kidding, I'm a little scared here. A lot scared. But not about us. What we've got-- we're like lightning in a bottle, babygirl. I love you so much, Mil.
millie		I want you to be very careful. 16. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		I know. I will. I mean, Cedar Rapids-- there were only four homicides last year. For a city of 122-thousand that's pretty darn good. The forcible rape numbers are admittedly a bit higher, but...
millie		I want you to check in with me.
tim		I will every day. Twice a day.
millie		Make it three times.
tim		 OK, three times! Sheesh. And I'll send a stinkin' telegram, too.
retarded man		Airport don't open for two hours.
tim		Thanks! Just wanna be sure I make my flight. Going down to Cedar Rapids. The big ASMI Convention?
tim		Cold enough for you? I'm heading to Cedar Rapids. Supposed to be up in the mid-30s down there. S-weet!
tsa agent		Any liquids, gels or aerosols must be placed in a quart-size Zip-Lock. Laptop computers must be taken out of the case and placed in...
tim		Whoa... what's all this now?
tsa agent		Any liquids, gels or aerosols...
tim		Hey Bill, what's going on?
bill krogstad		Can't believe I forgot to get this to you. Hang on, lemme...
tim		Dean Ziegler, Stevens Point.
bill krogstad		Ziegler is a cancer. Sonofabitch called one of Lemke's biggest clients-- Joyce Armbrster? Smeared Roger's name and the Northlands' name. Frickin' poacher. Avoid Ziegler like the plague. The fella I got you rooming with, Ronald Wilkes-- that's who you stick by. 18. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Affirmative.
bill krogstad		Hey-hey! That kind of prep is pure Lemke! Didn't know any better, I'd say Roger's spirit had kind of climbed into you, just planted its seed inside you there. Atta boy!
tim		Bill... I have to ask. Let's say one of these big dogs-- your Allstates, your Prudentials-- does decide to go and buy Northlands...?
bill krogstad		Said it before, I'll say it again: Your job, the office in Brown Valley-- all safe. What you need to worry about is getting down there and representing us the best you can. That's all you need to worry about.
flight attendant		You lucky ducks are obviously seated in an exit row. Score!  19. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		You're talking what, water landing?  Terror type deal? Terrorists...?
flight attendant		It's really just a formality.
tim		Believe it or not, I have actually never been on an airplane before.
flight attendant		Oh, well you'll do awesome.
tim		 OK. If you need any help, I'm in.
tim		Tim Lippe.
man		Ah. David Marinakis.
tim		Great to meet you, Dave. Wondering, what kind of name is Marinakis?
david marinakis		Greek. It's Greek.
tim		Marinakis. OK. Mine's German. Lippe.  20. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Like I say, Dave, it's not life insurance so much as it is dream insurance.
david marinakis		It's a good way of looking at it.
tim		I think so.
david marinakis		Will do, Tim. Thanks.
tim		Hello. Score!
bree		Hey man, can I bum a heater?
tim		What's that now?
bree		A cigarette?
tim		Oh, I'm like, "this gal wants to borrow my heater?" Tss. But no, sorry, can't help you there.
bree		You here for the convention?
tim		You bet. Tim Lippe. Northlands Insurance. How `bout yourself?
bree		Ah, Bree. I'm Bree.
tim		Well Bree, it's nice to meet you. But let me give you a trade secret.  Keep smoking and your premiums will go through the roof.
bree		Thanks Mr. Surgeon General.  22. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		You bet. Party hearty. Nice chatting with you, Bree.
trent		Checking in with us, sir?
tim		You tell me. Never done the hotel deal before.
trent		Well, welcome. I'll just need to see a credit card for the incidentals...
tim		 Trent, I was given the impression that you honored traveler's checks.
trent		Yes, we just need an imprint of your card. For the incidentals.
tim		Traveler's check is a fully insured method of, y'know. 100 percent.
trent		I'm aware of that, sir. We won't charge the card unless you rent a movie or take something from the mini-bar...
tim		I'm a non-drinker.
trent		It's standard, sir. 23. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Not yet, but I can smell it. The chlorine. It's a super top-notch place, Mil. You'd be blown away. Oop, 321. I'm at mi casa. Just a... lemme see how this deal works.
tim		 There's an Afro-American gentleman in this room.
black man		Are you Tim? Tim Lippe?
tim		 Let me call you back, Mil.
ronald		You are Tim...?
tim		Um. Yeah. Yes. You bet. For a minute there I was like, whoa, I'm gonna be robbed here, or...
ronald		OK. You want to check out the room then?
tim		Check out these digs. Huzzah!
ronald		Yeah, you could do a lot worse.  25. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		No. I'm down. Down with that. Heck yeah. Any idea who we're gonna be chilling with, roommate-wise?
ronald		No. Just hope he doesn't snore.
tim		 Can you imagine? Or someone who has terrible gas?! Like, pull my finger. Brrump! Hello, no thanks!
ronald		This isn't Woodstock, Tim. It's a regional insurance convention. Whoever it is, I'm sure he'll be a straight shooter.
ronald		So far it's just the one billboard north of St. Cloud. Course the traffic load would get me more eyeballs in the Twin Cities corridor, but at the end of the day, it's N-T- S. Not Too Shabby.
tim		Ha. N-T-S. That's hilarious. I'd love to own my own agency...
dean		Baroo-baroo, let's get this party started you mother-rubbers!
ronald		Turn down the volume, Ziegler. You just got here, for Pete's sake.
dean		What's the matter, friend, never seen a chocolate-vanilla love sandwich?! Wait until later when we get to the buttfucking! Nah, I'm having fun. Dean Ziegler. Stevens Point, Wisconsin.
ronald		We drew the short straw with this pitiful reprobate, Tim. Dean, this is Tim Lippe.
dean		Call me Deanzie. Where you hail from, Tim Lippe? Quiet-land?
tim		No. I do not. I'm down from Brown Valley, Wisconsin.  Northlands Insurance.
dean		Bill Krogstad's outfit. The Krogger!  Aw shit. I was sorry as hell to hear about Lemke's passing up there. That guy was tits as a rep. Course he thought I was a big, loud asshole-- s'pose he wasn't too far off there. No boy, a real tragedy.
tim		 Uh, thanks. Thank you. It's... Roger was just a super great man.
dean		Amen. He'll be in my prayers. His family, too. Tragedy.
ronald		That line was unappealing last year, Dean. It remains so now.
tim		I'm planning to watch President Helgesson's opening remarks. 28. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
dean		Oh, don't get me started on that smug fuck. Orin Helgesson is a-- pardon my French-- a cunt. Just a steaming wet dog cunt.
ronald		No one's buying the potty-mouth nonsense you're selling, Dean. Tim, you'll learn to ignore this degenerate before too long. Let's go hear what Orin has to say.
dean		Fine. Have fun ladies... Not.
orin		I'm Orin Helgesson, your ASMI Midwest Region Chapter President. But I'm not going to make you play Hail to the Chief. Not yet anyhow.
mike pyle		Beige.
orin		In the beige sweater vest. Great.
tim		 I'm worried about this Deanzie guy. Bill Krogstad told me specifically to stay the heck away from him.
ronald		Oh, Dean ran for President against Orin last year-- only got four votes. He's running again this year. He's just full of bluster.
orin		... The Two Diamonds are given every year to the agency that best exemplifies the ASMI decree: "To provide high quality insurance services and related products while maintaining Commitment to Community, Country and God." We have a record number of entries this year-- over 15 agencies competing. Good luck to you all.
tim		Did he say over 15 agencies?
ronald		Yeah, it's gonna be brutal this year. I brought my A-game though.
tim		You're competing? 30. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
ronald		Heck yeah. It's the first year I've ever had a real shot. But the guy you really have to worry about is Mike Pyle. He owns the sixth largest Allstate agency in the Upper Midwest. The guy's a shark.
orin		... moment of silence for the man many considered to be the Michael Jordan of Mutual Insurance Agents. Roger Lemke.
tim		I need to talk to you, Mil. I'm in over my head here. I feel like I can't even swim. It was fun at first, but now it's like, I dunno. I need you so bad, babygirl...
tim		Who's...? Wade?
tim		Are...? You're at Millie's still?
tim		Um. Yes, please. And just, would you tell her I love her very much.
woman		You were checking me out.
tim		I... Ma'am, no. I'm sorry if you... I wouldn't... I have a fianc!
woman		Unbelievable. That poor woman should know what you're up to.
tim		No, no, no, please. I didn't...
woman		I am so sorry. I'm totally messing with you. God, I'm a jerk.
tim		Ha. OK. That was different. Ha. Yes. Yes you are. A real... jerkhead.
woman		I'm so sorry. Joan Ostrowski-Fox.
tim		Tim Lippe.
joan		Don't get lippy with me, mister.
tim		No I don't. I'm actually in town for the ASMI convention.
joan		Oh, is that where a bunch of guys sit around a table looking up the word "gullible" in a dictionary?
tim		No, it's an association of insur... Oh. You're screwing with me again.
joan		Indeed I am. I'm here for ASMI, too. In from Oh-my-god, Nebraska. Just kidding-- Omaha.  Ugh, I am gross, so I'm going to bid you farewell, Tim Lippe. See you at Horizons tonight?
tim		Um. 33. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		Unless you were planning on spying on me in the shower.
orin		How ya doin'?
tim		Oh. I... OK.  I... I really enjoyed your speech, President Helgesson.
orin		You were in there? Marvelous. Did you like the part about E-Commerce?
tim		You bet. Very much, sir.
orin		Terrific. It's the future y'know. Anyhow, I don't think we've...
tim		Tim Lippe. Down from Brown Valley, Wisconsin. Northlands Insurance?
orin		Whew boy. Tim, what can I say? I just-- we're all feeling it. I'm so sorry for the loss...
tim		Um, well, it's rough. Real rough. Like you said in your remarks, Roger wasn't just a great rep, he was a good father and...
orin		And a pilot. Flew a Cessna.
tim		Yeah. It's just rough.
orin		Come here, son.
tim		Thank you.
orin		Tim, I know Bill's looking to retire and from the sound of it he's on the hook for a pretty sweet time share.
tim		Yeah, it sounds pretty top-notch.
orin		I want to help him find a buyer, and God knows I'll try my darnedest. But-- and it pains me to say this-- there's a petition going around trying to rescind all of Northlands' Two Diamond Awards.
tim		What?!
orin		I know. But let's be honest, one of the core tenets of the Two Diamonds is Commitment to God. And the way Roger passed on... well, some folks are saying that type of activity isn't entirely "godly."
tim		Thank you President Helgesson.
orin		Please. Orin. And if you need anything, Tim-- I mean anything-- I'm up in the Tiffany Suite. Room
tim		Hello Dean.
dean		It's Deanzie, c'mon.  36. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
bartender		What can I getcha?
tim		Ah. Do you guys have root beer?
dean		You want a nipple with that?
tim		Ah, why would I need a nipple...?
dean		Ach, I'm busting your balls. You don't get out much, do you buddy?  Whoa, who'd you have to blow to get all those?
tim		I didn't... Nobody. President Helgesson gave them to me.
dean		Smug fuck. Trying to poison my roommate with his B-S propaganda.
tim		I really don't... Orin, President Helgesson, he wanted to help me meet people. Just being friendly.
dean		 Cocksucker's buying your vote, pal. 37. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
dean		So Big Time Tim, what're you looking for pussy-wise here in Cedar CRAPids?
tim		Ah, that would be nothing...
dean		That your mom?
tim		No. No it is not. Millie and I are engaged. To be married.
ronald		You're married yourself, Ziegler. The heck's your moral compass?
dean		My moral compass is pointing true north, if you read me. Right Taco Bill?
ronald		Oh jeez. You and Patti split? Sorry to hear that.
dean		 38. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
ronald		ASMI isn't a vacation for everybody, Dean. End of the day, Tim's here to work and to win. For his agency.
tim		Exactly. And P-S, I would never, ever have "relations" or whatever with another woman.
ronald		Joan Ostrowski-Fox.
dean		The O-Fox!
joan		Here she is, Miss America.
ronald		You fly in from Omaha, Joan?
joan		Yup. And boy are my arms tired.
dean		 Oh yeah baby. Shag-a-licious!
tim		Hey. Ha. From the fitness center.
joan		Hey! It's Tim "don't get lippy with me" Lippe.
ronald		You guys met?
joan		Oh yeah, and I was very naughty in there. I'm sorry about that, Tim.
dean		No she's not.
joan		No I'm not.  Shots! What'll it be, gentlemen?
dean		Oh yeah, Jaeger time!
ronald		Oh what the heck. Drambuie.
joan		Lippe?
tim		Oh, I don't, ah...
joan		Careful you don't get too loaded, Lippe, or I might have to take advantage of you.
tim		It's been a super long day. I, ah, better... Good night...
dean		 Whoa-o here she comes-- she's a man eater!
tim		Hello Bree.
bree		 Hey. Hey.
millie		Marlene's brother's back in the hospital, so bridge got canceled. So we just watched hockey.
millie		Me and Wade.
tim		Wade.
tim		Oh. Tell him hey.
tim		I have to do some work before bed, so...
tim		No, it's-- I love you so bad, babygirl. It's so hard here. I just miss you.
tim		Tss. Yeah, yeah. Keep reminding me.
tim		OK. You, too. I love you. 42. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Current risk mitigation mechanisms available to hog farm operations include futures and options to...
dean		 Whoa. Something didn't agree with you, did it? Second thought, meet me in the stairwell after you wrap things up in here.
tim		What the heck is going on here?
dean		You sound like my fuckin' wife, Timbo. Jesus. Ex, I should say. EX.
tim		Are you drunk?
dean		Fuck yeah!  43. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		We're not close...
dean		Close enough. You're voting for me for President, right?
tim		No I'm not.
dean		Well anyway, there's a petition going around trying to take away your company's Two Diamond Awards.
tim		I know. I heard.
dean		Well hear this: After you left the bar, Mike Pyle comes up to me-- Pyle of shit, I call him-- and he asks do I want to sign this thing. And I go, "Lemke might have been a class-A deviant, but the guy was tits as a rep..."
tim		Pardon my French, Dean, but that's a bunch of bull roar. My boss, Bill Krogstad? He told me how you called up Joyce Armbrster and smeared Roger's name all over town...
dean		Joyce who...? Oh, no-no-no, whoa- whoa-whoa, that old whore called ME. Harping about Lemke being a pervert and how she wants to take her business elsewhere. So I says, "OK, I'll run some numbers." Well, she calls back later that same day, says she got Krogstad to lower her premium. Which is all the greasy twat wanted in the first place.
tim		So wait, you didn't call her? 44. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
dean		I may be a lot of things, but poacher ain't one of `em.
tim		So what's with this petition?
dean		Personally? I think Mike Pyle of Shit started the thing as a way to drive down the price of your agency. Dollars to donuts he wants to swoop in and pick up Northlands at a bargain basement price. And you know what else I think? I think Orin's in on the deal somehow.
tim		What? That's impossible.
dean		I can't quite figure it myself, but I know what I know. And what I know is you're wading into some duvious, er dubious, shit. Just be careful.
orin		... In Your Name we pray Lord Jesus, Son of God, Author of our Salvation, our Redeemer, our Truth. Amen.
ronald		Orin knows how to lead a prayer breakfast, tell you what.
tim		Hmm...? Oh. Yeah.
ronald		Little overwhelming? All this?
tim		Hello, thank you. I feel like my head is gonna like...  Y'know?
ronald		Oh I hear ya L & C. Loud and clear. I was the same way when I first came to ASMI. The deciding which break-out sessions to attend, plus the politics, the pressure, the not knowing who to trust...
tim		Excuse me, Ronald. It's my boss.  This is Tim. 46. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
bill krogstad		Tim. Bill Krogstad. Got a call from Orin Helgesson. Tells me he's worried about you. Tells me you're palling around with Dean Ziegler. Laughing at his jokes, buying him drinks...
bill krogstad		What's the ONE thing I told you to do? The one thing, Tim? Steer clear of Dean Ziegler. GODDAMNIT, you're lousing the whole thing up!
dione krogstad		Bill...
bill krogstad		Not now Dione.
tim		Bill, I... That Dean Ziegler-- he was trying to warn me about Orin.
tim		Bill, I'm sorry...
bill krogstad		I sent you to ASMI to restore our image, Tim. One day into the deal you're lousing the whole thing up!  See how far Gladstone is from Cedar Rapids, Dione. Look in the atlas.
dione krogstad		You're not driving to Iowa, Bill. This is your daughter's wedding.
bill krogstad		Oh cripes, you know as well as I do that Polack's gonna head for the hills the second he gets his papers. But no, you want to end up in the poor house, Dione, we'll go. Let's just keep on cashing checks we don't have...
dione krogstad		We are going to our daughter's wedding, Bill.
tim		I didn't know I did anything wrong.
joan		I'm a very bad girl. But I swear I only smoke in Cedar Rapids. Care for a Virginia Slim, Lippe? 48. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Mm, I don't know. Only everything.
tim		He didn't have to yell at me. I didn't do anything wrong. I'm trying my hardest.
joan		D'you want me to kick his butt?
tim		Could you?
joan		Absolutely. I know Krogstad. I could take him. `Sides, I'm a ninja. A nin- jette, actually. Hoo-waaaah!  Look here, see, how'd you end up in the insurance game, see...?
tim		You are freaky.  No, it's kind of weird how I got interested in insurance, actually. When I was six, my dad got killed in a sawmill accident.
joan		Oh my God. 49. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Yeah. Not good. But after he died, our insurance agent fought like a tiger against the sawmill to make sure me and my mom were taken care of. And we were.  The crazy thing-- our agent was actually Bill Krogstad.
joan		No way. Really?
tim		He had just opened Northlands. Anyway, I remember thinking, this guy's a hero. A real hero. So even if he doesn't always treat me, like y'know... whatever now-- I'll never forget that.
joan		I remember that. Massive disaster.
tim		People talk about the firemen and policemen and that. But think about all the claims in a disaster like that-- how hard those agents worked to make sure people's lives weren't left in the lurch. We're talking billions of dollars in damages, literally. And claim by claim, dream by dream, those agents helped rebuild this city. I'm telling you, it's a noble calling. I really believe that.
joan		You realize you just made it sound cool to be an insurance salesman? You are a hero, Lippe.
tim		Tss. I wish. 50. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		No, I can tell. You're the Superman type. Kind of dweeby on the surface but a real frickin' stud underneath. They'd call you Insurance Man-- put a big red "I" on your chest...
tim		Well, even if you're being full of it, thanks for saying that anyway.
joan		Well, you're welcome.  So can you fly me back to the hotel, Insurance Man? I'm freezing my arse off.
dean		I'm saying a Bridge to the 22nd Century is a stupid theme, Helgesson. Not a goddamn one of us is even going to be alive in the 22nd Century...
orin		Oh, and I suppose under a Dean Ziegler administration, we'd just abandon E-Commerce and all that, huh? What's your take, Ronald?
ronald		End of the day, you know I'm a big supporter of yours, Orin...
dean		Stab me in the fucking back why don't you, Wilkes...
ronald		Why would I stab you in the back, Dean, when I'm telling you to your face that I think you'd be a lousy President? 51. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
dean		Timbo! Sorry about that gigantic boner I got while we were spooning.
tim		We didn't spoon, Orin...
orin		To each his own, Tim.  I'm teasing, of course. Well, I gotta run to an Executive Council meeting. You fellas really ought to check out Mike Pyle's Prop/Cas seminar...
dean		Pyle of shit.
orin		Mike's a dynamite orator. I think you'd enjoy it. We'll see ya.
dean		Smug fuck.  So who's ready for a drink?
ronald		It's 11 in the morning.
dean		 It's 11 in the morning. Can you believe this guy? C'mon Timbo, let's get the flock outta here.
tim		You need to leave me alone.
mike pyle		I'd like to share a humorous anecdote. A gentleman is drowning in a lake or pond, and he's 20 feet offshore. Well, along comes an actuary. And this actuary sees the drowning gentleman and throws him an 11 foot rope. And the gentleman says, "But I'm 20 feet offshore!" And the actuary says, "Well, I'm meeting you MORE than halfway."
tim		Hello.
tim		Millie? Something happened...?
dean		Timbo! Turn around!
trent		Gentlemen! I will call security.
tim		What the H did I ever do to you, you a-hole.
dean		Come on bud, I was having fun.
tim		I just wanted to hear your voice.
tim		Nothing. Nothing really...
tim		Oh.
tim		I'd like to sign up for the scavenger hunt.
woman		Super. Teaming with a co-worker or are you in need of a partner?  This is a team event, like the Amazing Race. On TV? But instead of going around the world, you look for stuff in Cedar Rapids. And instead of a million dollars, the winning team gets a $75 gift card for Westdale, which is...
tim		Eastern Iowa's largest two-story mall. I know. Sweet.  And yes, I do have a teammate.
ronald		Everything OK?
joan		Yeah, what was that call?
tim		Oh, nothing. Say Joan, you have something on your blouse.
joan		 You are very weird...
tim		 So, ah, I signed you up for the Scavenger Hunt. To be my teammate. In the Scavenger Hunt.
joan		Really? Why?
tim		Uh, well I... Because Ronald already had a teammate...
ronald		Bill Hernandez?
joan		Taco Bill.
tim		... And I thought you'd-- we'd-- be y'know, a decent team. So...  I think you should do it.
joan		Heck yeah! I get to be Insurance Man's sidekick. We're going to kick some ASS!
orin		Like last year there'll be a few physical challenges...
tim		 I am super pumped!
joan		 Whoo-hoo.
orin		Course this should be considered a fun event, in the spirit of team building. You can find your first clue "under the sea." By which I mean in the pool area. So ready, set, race!
tim		You're going down, a-hole.
dean		Let's roll, Perry-- Perry-plegic. Get it, like paraplegic? But...
perry		Yeah. Good one, Dean-tard. Like retard, but Dean-tard. Get it?
tim		Check it out-- Planet X!
joan		Ooh, that's hot...
tim		 ... Maps, area attractions, crime stats, local customs...
joan		Look at you...
tim		Bingo! Right here-- Planet X Family Fun Center. Let's go. Act natural.
joan		What a gyp. There are no stinkin' clues in here.
tim		OK, I think we're going to want to take Blair's Ferry Road to Avenue
joan		Why would you possibly know that?
tim		I memorized the major thoroughfares and landmarks in the metro area.
tim		 "You've seen the future, now Czech out Cedar Rapid's past." But it's Czech, like Czechoslovakia. C'mon!
dean		Know what that cow's thinking, Pyle? She's thinking, "quit pulling on my tits and fuck me already."
joan		Ugh. I'm gonna puke.
tim		No, you're doing great, Joan. And you look super awesome with a wiener in your mouth. 59. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		 Oh my God, did you just make a dick joke, Lippe?
tim		No.  Maybe.
orin		OK guys, this is it. First team to complete this challenge wins the whole shootin' match.  ASMI's past is behind us; But our future looks nice; Let's Build a Bridge to the 22nd Century... by scaling this silo of ice!
joan		That doesn't even... There's no such thing as silo ice climbing.
tim		No, it's actually a big thing in Iowa. ABC news did a story about it. I saw it on YouTube.
joan		Of course you did. Well, you can do it then...
tim		Uh-uh, absolutely not. I'm scared crapless of heights.
joan		You need to get over it, Lippe, cuz I'm not climbing jack.  60. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Yeah. Let's do this thing.
mike pyle		Little help here...
tim		Ugh. This is frickin' hard.
ronald		Really hard.
dean		I think I just shit my pants.
orin		OK gang, that was Rick Martini with the National Chapter. Here's the deal. Since no one could do the final task, and since Joan and Tim were the first team to get here, we're just gonna go ahead and award them the first place prize. Unless anyone's got a problem with that?
ronald		Dangit. You could've done better, Wilkes.
tim		Wait, we won?
orin		Yup. So here you guys go. Your $75 gift card for the Westdale Mall.
tim		Oh crap. I forgot...  Hey, Millie.
tim		I'm sorry, Mil. I signed up for this scavenger hunt, and check it out-- we won! My teammate and I, that is. Joan.
joan		Hi Millie! 62. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		That was Joan saying hi.  Millie says hi.
joan		I'll just meet you inside.
tim		OK. Sounds good.  Sorry Mil, go ahead.
millie		So who's this Joan?
tim		Just some gal from Omaha they paired me up with. Between you and me, she's a little different. Real hyper-- one of these types who kind of overdoes it. But for a 75 dollar gift card, I'm not going to complain. 63. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		 OK, Mom...
millie		Well. You obviously have more important things to do than talk to me. My brother and I were just getting ready to go for fish at the Eagles anyhow.
millie		It's fine. You'll call me some time when it's convenient for you, Tim. Good Night.
tim		Hey. What say we just use the gift certificate to get a nice supper here? At the mall. 64. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		We have a gift card. But I didn't make a reservation. Is that OK?
waiter		Coors Lite for the madam. A cream sherry for monsieur. And here are some bottomless bread sticks.
tim		Nice. Thanks.
joan		That's really nice. Cheers.
tim		Mm, it does taste a lot like communion wine. Awesome. 65. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		So Lippe, I'm trying to figure you out. Hopes, dreams, aspirations, blah-blah-blah? Whaddaya got?
tim		Mine? Let's see. Um. I would love-- some day-- to put a little greenhouse in my backyard.
joan		Dream the impossible dream...
tim		No, I've actually seen some fairly decent portable ones at Fleet Farm that won't break the bank...
joan		C'mon, man. I mean fantasy-land stuff. What do you really want?
tim		Well. I always hoped I could take over Northlands when Bill retired. But that obviously isn't going to happen now.
joan		Oh, screw him. He wants to sell, why don't you just buy Northlands?
tim		Yeah right.
joan		Why not? You could get a loan.
tim		I don't... Probably not.
joan		You know the business. You know the clients. You actually care about your job. You'd be perfect. 66. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Grrrr. Ha. Time out. Sheesh. Let's.  OK. What I'd really like is a family. To be a dad. So kids, I guess, that's what I really want.
joan		Yeah well, you can have mine.
tim		You've got kids?
joan		Tyler's ten. Ashley'll be eight next month. My little squirrels.
tim		Awesome. Beautiful kids. And that's...?
joan		My hubby. Rich Fox. Richie. We met when we were both Rotary exchange students in high school. Lived in Norway for a semester.
tim		Norway.
joan		I was such a spaz. Band geek, total ugly duckling-- braces, acne, the whole nine. I didn't even get boobs until college. Anyway, we ended up getting married sophomore year. Then kids. Then blah-blah-blah, and here we are. Richie's a Supervisor in the Parks Department now. For the County.
tim		Wow.
joan		I know it's effed up. And if I had it all to do over again, I don't know what I'd choose.  67. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		OK. I thought of another one.
joan		One what?
tim		Wish. Or dream or whatever. It's still small potatoes compared to...
joan		No, let's hear it...
tim		... to all you've done-- Norway and all that, but...  Do you watch American Idol ever?
joan		You wanna be on American Idol?
tim		No-no-no. Negative! Sheesh. But I do enjoy watching it quite a bit. Randy's always like, "That's awesome, dawg!" And Simon's such a--  Anyhow I was thinking of maybe trying-- trying-- to get a solo in my choir. At church. I mean, it's all super political. But I'm a fair to middlin' baritone, so... 68. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		That's great, Tim. You'll do it. I know you will. Very cool.
joan		Wanna get one for the road, stud?
tim		Oh no, I have to practice my Two Diamond presentation. I can't...
joan		One nightcap. It'll loosen you up.
tim		Ha. Nightcap. Kneecap, more like...
joan		What?
tim		Yes.
dean		Timbo and the O-Fox! Wondered when you crazy kids were gonna show up.
ronald		Can I buy the big-shot winners a drink? Coors Lite for Joan. And Tim, you want a pop? 69. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Actually, do they have cream sherry?
ronald		Cream sherry. Jeez, guess that victory really did go to your head.
joan		Coors Lite's good for me, thanks. I gotta run wash my hands quick.
dean		You tag that yet, Timbo? Bet she's moist as a damp sponge, huh?
tim		She is MARRIED. And you're just... What is wrong with you?
dean		Shit, what isn't wrong me? I drink too much, I weigh too much, I piss people off. Speaking of, that crank call earlier-- way outta line. People are right, I am an asshole.
tim		Well. Yeah. You kind of are. But I guess I've seen worse.
dean		I love it! "I guess I've seen worse." I love it!  No offense Big Man! Right, Timbo?
tim		Ronald! Hello.  Thanks mucho... So Ronald, what's your situation? You married, or...?
ronald		Negative. I'm pretty well married to Ronald Wilkes Insurance. I also do quite a bit of work with the St. Cloud Chamber. I'm Senior Warden at my church. So really, no time for a Mrs. Ronald Wilkes.
tim		Wow.
ronald		Don't get me wrong, I have my guilty pleasures-- antiquing, I'm active in community theater. And I have to admit I'm a big enthusiast of the HBO program, The Wire. But shux, I haven't had a proper vacation in nine years.
tim		I never use my vacation time.
dean		Maybe you two should take one of those gay cruises together.
ronald		You know what you are Ziegler? You're what I call a real Richard.
tim		 Dick head. Yeah Dean, you are a total Richard!
dean		Ha! I love it! Richard head!
ronald		To Tim-- the young rookie comes in, takes the scavenger hunt. That right there is P-T. Prime Time.
dean		Would you rather toss a bum's salad, y'know, eat out his butthole or... give your dad a B-J?
ronald		Come on Ziegler, this is supposed to be a clean game...
tim		No, if you used some salad dressing a bum's a-hole might not taste that bad. Thousand Island!
joan		Shots!  Kamikazes, good sir.
tim		Did he just...?
joan		Why wait for the church choir when you can take care of one of your dreams right now, dude?
tim		No, no, no, no, no...
joan		I know you can do it, Lippe. Go be my hero-- Insurance Man. 72. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
karaoke dj		Tim Lip? You in the house?
tim		I, um, I've met some really, just super neat people here. But this song, I'd like to dedicate to the first African-American person I've ever met. I mean, I've seen guys at the Oneida Mall in Rhinelander-- said hello and that. But... Anyway, I just think you're one of the most awesome guys around. Ronald Wilkes!
ronald		The presentation's in 36 hours. I can't afford to be off my game. Frankly, neither can you, Tim.
tim		Uh-oh. Who is it then?
ronald		You know what I mean. We've both worked our tails off. Why poop it away on...
dean		Check this out-- Captain Nemo!
tim		 I know. I just...
joan		Whaddaya say, Lippe? Take a dippy?
tim		 Ich can nicht schwimmen. That's "I can't swim." In German. And I can't. `Sides, I didn't bring a bathing suit.
joan		So we stay in the shallow end.  And neither did I.
tim		Yow. Chilly. Ha.
joan		So.
tim		Yep. Ha. Fun. Fun day.
joan		So.
tim		Oh jeez. 75. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
dean		Hell yeah.
orin		What the heck's going on down there?!
dean		Suck my ass, Helgesson.
orin		I'm calling security!
tim		Holy crap! We're so dead!
dean		Come on, Ronimal! My key got wet. Wake up, man!  Ah, fuck it.
tim		Your body's just so... firm and pretty. Mmm. Making love to you was just super... super awesome.
joan		Cuddle? Um. OK. 77. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		I love to cuddle.  You're special, Joan. So special...
joan		No baby, you guys are playing at Papillion/La Vista. Ralston is next week...  Calm down, Tyler. You're not gonna miss it. It's not that far. Put your dad on.
tim		Good morning. 78. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		Crisis on the home front. Sorry if I woke you up.
tim		No problemo.
joan		Your cell phone kept ringing in your little fanny pack thing, so I shut it off. When I saw the discs, I figured I'd take a look. It's a solid presentation.
tim		Um. Thanks. It was Roger Lemke's...
joan		Yeah, I see that.  You know we were together right?
tim		What? Whaddaya...? You and... You and Roger, you mean?
joan		It's so stupid-- but everyone basically treated us like the Brangelina of ASMI for a while there. It ended two years ago. He was getting into some pretty weird stuff... as we all know now.
tim		My foot I knew! No, I did not. And yes, it most certainly does matter. Man, this T's me off. 79. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		Tell me you're not jealous. You can't be jealous. The guy's dead.
tim		Every stinkin' place I go people remind me: You're no Roger Lemke. You're not as good as Roger Lemke. Here we go again.
joan		As good? Tim, Roger was a small- minded, egotistical jerk. You're an infinitely better man than he was.
tim		Why were you with him then?
joan		Why? I don't know. I don't know. I guess I probably maybe don't like myself very much. I don't know.
tim		Hey, hey. Come on. You're pretty and smart and just super awesome.  I like you.
joan		What are you talking about?
tim		Us. This.
joan		What this? What are you talking about? There's no this. There's no us. I have a family. 80. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		What about...?
joan		What about it? I told you, what I do here... In Cedar Rapids... It stays here.
tim		Where the heck are my clothes?
joan		Come on, Tim. We're adults here. You're acting like a child...
tim		Yeah. Well, you're acting like a fricking... prostitute.
tim		I lost my slacks somewhere.
tim		I'm really, really sorry Ronald. If I said anything, or...
ronald		Hey, it's not Ronald Wilkes's job to judge you, Tim. End of the day, the Lord's got that covered. But am I disappointed? You bet I am. Heck, I'm all for having fun. But I didn't think you were one of these guys who comes down here only to get loaded and act like a derelict.
tim		No, I'm not. I...
ronald		What a couple of class acts. I'm running late for the prayer breakfast. Oh and Tim, Bill Krogstad's been trying to reach you all morning. FYI.
bill krogstad		Tim, Bill Krogstad again. Orin Helgesson told me about your little hootenanny in the pool there. Clear violation of ASMI's Morals Code-- meaning we lose our ASMI certification, we lose our Two Diamond rating, we lose our customers and I lose any chance of ANYONE buying my goddamn business.  82. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
bill krogstad		 Call me when you get this Tim. Because unless you pull off a miracle, we're done. You've let me down hard. Cripes... shaping up to be the worst day of my life.
tim		Goddarnit!
dean		That time of the month?  C'mon man, it's gonna be OK.
tim		No it's not. Nothing is OK. My job, my fianc...  God, I'm a philanderer. I've let Bill down. I've let everybody down.
dean		C'mere, kiddo. Sit. Sit down. 83. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Is this...? Why is this all of a sudden about you, Dean?
dean		I'm telling you this, buddy, because it shows to go ya-- even if you're a fucking waste of space jerk-off like myself, there's always opportunities to do the right thing. If this Two Diamond bullshit and that matters so much, you'll find a way to make it right. If not, fuck it. Life's way too short to lose sleep over shit that don't matter.
orin		Without any more ado, our keynote speaker, Iowa Insurance Commissioner, Mrs. Susan Voss!
tim		President Helgesson, please let me stay in the Two Diamond contest. Please. This isn't for me-- it's for Bill Krogstad. I can't let him down. Please just let me compete.
orin		 Tiffany Suite. Bit much. Perks of the Presidency, guess you'd say. Please. Have a seat on the davenport.
tim		Ah, no. Thanks.
orin		Suit yourself.
tim		This is the petition?
orin		Between you and me-- this was a ploy by Mike Pyle. Trying to drive down the value of Northlands so he could get it on the cheap. 85. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Oh my gosh, really? Thank you.
orin		One thing Roger Lemke knew, Tim? He knew that when you get all dolled up, go to the prom-- the Big Dance-- that you gotta be prepared to put out. To show a little teat.  You ever hear of PayPal, Tim?
tim		PayPal? Um, yeah. I've used it to pay for Beanie Babies on E-Bay...  For my fianc.
orin		Good. Thing you gotta ask yourself now is this: "Am I ready to dance? Am I ready to show a little TEAT?"
tim		I don't understand what you mean...
orin		Calm down, Orin. I'm sorry. Please, let's talk E-Commerce for a minute.
tim		You bet.
orin		So Roger's up here looking over this new system, and he gets one of these lightbulb-going-off kinda looks, the way he did. And he says, "Orin, with that newsletter going digital you're saving almost four grand a year in printing costs alone. Four grand. Pure profit." You see where this is going, Tim?
tim		I can't say that I do...
orin		PayPal. That's where. What has ASMI ever given Orin Helgesson? Huh? Not dime one. Sure as shoot not an opportunity to serve on the National Board. Have I not been a good President? Do I not deserve a little something?
tim		You're an awesome President...
orin		You're GODDAMN right I am!
tim		I'm still not reading you here...
orin		There aren't printing costs anymore, see? The ASMI-teer's digital. E- Commerce! Don't you get it, Tim? All that money-- almost 39-hundred dollars a year-- that goes into a PayPal account now. My PayPal account. But I've got no idea how to use it. 87. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Do you literally mean you just need help, like, getting on-line, or...?
orin		Your performance in that scavenger hunt was first-rate. Then I see you in the pool making love to that floozy, I realize maybe you've got a bit of Lemke's, shall we say, moral ambiguity. I need that.
tim		You're talking about stealing.
orin		Pontoon boats don't pay for themselves, Tim. Roger Lemke came to the prom. He showed me a little teat. I rewarded him with the Two Diamonds three years running. I'm prepared to do the same for you. What do you say? You take home those those Two Diamonds, Northlands' value skyrockets, Bill Krogstad retires to his time share. Everybody wins...
tim		I'd be doing it for Northlands-- to keep it in Brown Valley and help my co-workers. To help Bill...
orin		OK, marvelous!
dean		Vote for Deanzie. Vote for change.
woman		I'm good thanks.
dean		Well fuck you very much, Carla.
ronald		Not a snowball's chance in Hades.
dean		You're all a bunch of dicks.
ronald		 Hey there, Hangover Harry. 18 hours and counting. Got your guns loaded for the Two Diamonds, partner?
tim		Um. I... I don't know about that.
ronald		Don't be nervous. You'll do fine. There's a prayer circle tonight before the entertainment program-- might help ease your mind.
tim		I'm sorry about... Ronald. Just... about everything...
kay		Happy Saturday! What'cha drinkin'?
tim		A large cream sherry, please.
kay		Looks like you could use some cheering up. What do you call it when it rains chickens and ducks?  Fowl weather.
tim		 That's pretty hilarious.
tim		Bree?  It's Tim Lippe. From the ASMI convention. We met out in front of the Holidome across the street?
bree		Totally. You wanna party?
tim		Ooh, that's really awesome of you to ask. But I have a super important presentation in the morning unfortunately, so...
gary		I gotta work in the morning, too. Can't be productive or whatever without occasionally taking a little ride on the good times express. It's like, fuck that shit, yo.
tim		Yeah. I hear that. L & C. Loud and... clear.
bree		Seriously. We're going to this thing at my Uncle Ken's later-- after his shift's done.
tim		I have had a pretty messed up day actually. Might not hurt to forget about it for a little while. 91. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
orin		My advice, Mike? Pull the trigger. I've pretty well convinced him that his company's in the crapper. 85- thousand is as low as I could possibly get him.
mike pyle		He's said nothing to indicate I'd have to hang onto his employees or the office up there, right?
orin		Bill was real clear about that. You're buying his clients-- not his brand. You've done this before, Mike. The Northlands policies will simply roll over into your Allstate office in Milwaukee. Unless you want to keep a satellite branch up there in North Palookaville.
mike pyle		 OK. Let's pull the trigger.
orin		Oh, and Mike-- we're square on my consultant's fee?
mike pyle		Ten percent, as agreed.
orin		Marvelous. Now just give me a second here...
orin		We're all systems go over here, Bill. 92. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
orin		I was able to get Pyle up to 81- thousand for you, Bill, which is pretty amazing given all the... the tribulations and that. Of course that number doesn't include my 15 percent consultant's fee.
bill krogstad		Y'know what Orin, it's only a seven hour drive to Cedar Rapids. If I leave right now, I can be there first thing in the A-M and we can lock this sonofagun down.
bill krogstad		Hell yes. You bet. It's no problem. I'll be there in time to see the Two Diamond presentations-- not that that matters to me anymore! Thanks a million, Orin!
dione krogstad		No, Bill...
bill krogstad		Goddamnit, Dione, not now. This is happening. No flex on this one! 93. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		We used to get bands, Ronald. Real bands. Kansas. REO Speedwagon... Remember REO let me get on stage and play tambourine?
ronald		I'll go ahead and admit, this is an odd choice for an ASMI headliner. Budget crunch, I guess.
dean		Are you ready for this? Mike Pyle of Shit just bought Northlands. Word is the cocksucker's liquidating Timbo and the whole Brown Valley operation.
ronald		What? Holy smokes. Does Tim know?
joan		Don't look at me. I don't think Tim likes me very much anymore.
dean		Cry me a fucking river, honey. This isn't about you for once.
joan		Fuck off, Dean. Jackass.
ronald		Hey. Come on you guys. Cut it out.
dean		You two are a couple of serious fucking downers, man. Timbo left here in a huff a few hours ago-- you saw him Ronimal. Maybe he already knew. Shit, the kid's one of my best friends...
ronald		You met him two days ago, Ziegler.
dean		Know what, blow me Ronald. It's not my fault you're too goddamn afraid to open up and tell another man you love him. Do what you want, but the Deanzie's gonna make sure his friend is doing OK.
tim		That must be pretty all right, Ken, getting half off at Applebee's all the time. I'd only weigh like 10- thousand pounds...
uncle ken		Pass me that cube, Skeet.
tim		Ah...? This would be marijuana, I'm guessing?
bree		Suck the glass dick, dude.
tim		Oh jeez, oh jeez, oh jeez.
bree		A butterscotch might help.
dean		Trying to reach Tim Lippe. Who am I talking to?
dean		That right? Is he there now?
tim		I FEEL AMAZING! THIS IS AWESOME!
bree		HOW MUCH MONEY DO YOU HAVE ON YOU? 96. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		AH, CASH-WISE? ABOUT 90 DOLLARS, I THINK. I'VE GOT A TON OF TRAVELER'S CHECKS, THOUGH. WHY?
bree		I'LL GET US SOME MORE CRYPTO. THEN YOU CAN FUCK ME IF YOU WANT.
tim		 DO WHAT NOW?
bree		JUST GIMME A HUNDRED.
kay		Like I say, he was pretty ripped from all that sherry. He left with Ken and them for some party.
dean		Who's Ken?
kay		 Ken's our cook. We all think he deals dope, though. I get along good with everyone. But Ken? He's just real different.
ronald		Oh jeez. D'you know where they were going? Any idea?
kay		You could try Ken's place. It's way out in the boonies...
tim		My mom became real protective of me after my dad passed. She didn't really let me play sports or any of that. Fact, if I think about it, I never really did much of anything. Except gardening, which I do enjoy.
bree		Well you're livin' now. Here.
tim		Thanks. It's funny, though, because my job is all about protecting other people's dreams. But what about my dreams?
bree		It could be like-- maybe...  Whoa, shit's tight... Like maybe it has to do with your parents both dying? Like, maybe by protecting other people-- it's like you're trying to save your parents. Like somehow you feel like it's your fault? Like in your sub-conscience?
joan		Oh man. This place is bad news.
dean		I'll be standing by `case things get squirrelly in there. Getaway vehicle type scenario. 99. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		So you're sending me into that shithole? How chivalrous, Dean.
ronald		You and me can go in, Joan. It'll be fine, I'm sure...
gary		Nice tits.
joan		 Thanks. Thank you. That's nice.
ronald		We don't want any trouble, guys. We're just looking for our friend.
dean		Mm-mow-mow... Two tickets to paradise. Hmm-hmm, pack your bags we'll leave tonight... 100. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
joan		Oh shit.
bree		But he paid for it, Uncle Ken...
uncle ken		You can't let some dude pay for crystal meth and an ass fuck with a traveler's check, Bree. That shit can be traced.
tim		 And we didn't make love...
uncle ken		Shut the fuck up.
dean		Oh fuck!
ronald		Run!
dean		What the fuck happened?
joan		Oh my God, Tim. Are you OK?
tim		 I don't know. I don't know. All I know is I was getting kicked and then Ronald was there talking like a ghetto person...
ronald		In order to extricate Tim from what was clearly a volatile situation, I did, in fact, rely on my community theater training. I don't like to brag, but I do a pretty convincing Omar from the HBO program, The Wire.  Least them crackers back yonder seemed to buy it.
dean		The Ronimal!
tim		I can't believe Bill would do this to me. He was like a father...
dean		Wasn't just Krogstad, Timbo. Orin's the real devil in this deal.
joan		You'll find another job, Lippe. Maybe even move to a new town.
ronald		Shoot, you could come work for me if you wanted.
tim		I love you, Joan.
joan		 Get some sleep you guys. I'll stay up with him-- make sure he doesn't chew his arm off.
dean		Sleep good, little friend.
tim		I didn't make love to Bree, Joan.
joan		It doesn't matter. Here, lie down, Lippe.
orin		Oh, Tim. Just a sec.
joan		Oh shit...
tim		Sweet love showin' us a heavenly light. I never seen such a beautiful sight! See love glowin' on us every night, I know forever we'll be doin' it right!
tim		I always wanna call you "friend!" Sweet love showin' us a heavenly...
orin		 Nmmmmmmmmm!
tim		I did a ton of research on hog farm risk mitigation. Don't worry-- they might bite you a little if they think you're a food source. But there's never been a recorded hog- bite death. So...
wife		Who the heck's calling at this hour on a Sunday morning?
husband		Hello.
husband		 Um, fine, Tim. We're fine. Everything OK by you?
tim		Well, I think everything's OK. Hope it is anyway. Listen Kurt, here's why I'm calling...
ronald		People sometimes say that promises are cheap. You know what Ronald Wilkes says to that? N-S-F. Not so fast. At the end of the day, a man's word is a sacred creed. And the word I give you at Ronald Wilkes Insurance is-- I will work for you. Thank you.
dean		Hey Travis, I don't think Tim...
tim		 Thank you. I'm Tim Lippe. Hog farm risk mitigation... What is...?
bill krogstad		 What're you doing, Lippe?
tim		Why'd you do this, Bill? I don't understand.
bill krogstad		 Sorry, folks. Guess it's against the law now for a business owner to sell his own business. Must've missed that constitutional amendment.
tim		Insurance isn't just a business, Bill. Insurance is personal. I've got some savings. I could've gotten a loan. We could've worked something out.
bill krogstad		 Come on, Tim, you're tired. You're looking foolish here. You couldn't run an agency if your life depended on it.
tim		Screw you, Bill. Screw you... hard.  109. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
bill krogstad		Watch yourself, Lippe...
tim		I knew which ones would be on their way to church, which ones I'd be waking up, which ones probably got a little blotto last night and might be hung over... And every single person I talked to-- every one-- is staying with me.
bill krogstad		You don't know what you're doing.
tim		I do actually. I do know, Bill. And before the day is out, I'll have called all my clients. All of them.  So hey, congratulations Pyle of Shit-- you just bought a company that's losing half its business.
dean		Fuck yeah Timbo!
joan ronald		Jesus Lippe, what did you do? Aw jeez. This is no good.
dean		What's the fucking charge?
tim		Here.
dean		What's this?
tim		You'll figure it out.
tim		I know what you're thinking-- thinking "this wiseacre's full of baloney." Am I right?
guard		Tim Lip?
reginald		He pronounce it like Lippy.
guard		Well, you're outta here, Lippe.
tim		I'm serious. Call any time-- on the mobile or home phone, though. The office number's no good anymore.
reginald		Thanks Tim. You're all right. 111. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
tim		Don't even say it, Deanzie-- no one butt rammed me or whatever in there.
dean		"Butt ram!" I love it!
tim		Not particularly.
dean		When I saw it, at first I was like, shit am I supposed to take money out of the account, or what?
tim		Did you?
dean		Nah, it was more fun watching the smug fuck sweat. I told him I'd rat his pathetic ass out if he didn't drop the charges against you.
tim		 Sweet.
ronald		It's not as cool as I thought it'd be. I don't think this is even real wood.
dean		 I'll show you some real wood.
tim		Well.
joan		Deep subject. D'aar. Get it?  I told you you were a hero, Lippe. Insurance Man saves the day!
tim		Tss. Ruined it more like.
joan		True sign of a good day.
dean		Well, pal, it's been real.
tim		 I'm gonna miss you guys.
ronald		Yeah. You bet.
dean		Listen, my cousin Bob-- guy made a truckload selling these little scented pine trees all the ragheads hang in their cabs? Fuckin' believe that? Anyhow, he's got a sweet cottage up on Lake of the Woods. Canada? I can use it whenever I want.  113. Cedar Rapids, 6-12-09
ronald		More time in a tightly enclosed space with Ziegler. Gee, sign me up.
tim		I think it sounds awesome.
ronald		Actually, me too. The Ronimal could use a vacation.
dean		Done.
joan		So. Keep in touch. E-mail, all that good stuff.
tim		You bet. You bet. You too.
joan		If you're ever-- not that you would be-- ever in Oh-my-God, Nebraska...
tim		Yeah. Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom. I used to watch that. Would be cool some day to see.
joan		Yeah. Look me up.
tim		So.
tim		So, did you do anything fun in Cedar Rapids...?
tim		How's the walleye?
millie		Decent. Not bad.
tim		Meatloaf's on the dry side.
millie		Mm.
tim		What's...?
wade		Shit, where were they hidin' the meatloaf...?
tim		How ya doin' there, Leslie?
leslie		Ach, I'm too old to give a shit.
tim		No, you probably won't.
leslie		Mm. Anyhow, I told the cocksucker to go fuck himself. Says I'm going with Tim Lippe. A man I can trust.  It's a good thing you're doin'-- keepin' work in Brown Valley.
tim		I'm trying...
leslie		Let me know when them red squirrels show up at your feeder. I'll borrow
ronald		Can I be honest here, Tim?
tim		You bet.
dean		What was with the fuckin' unicorn?
tim		What? It represented hope...
ronald		All's I'm saying is you might've wanted to hire an actor with some professional training...
dean		Jesus-- a retarded kid just sitting there yelling would've been better than you.
tim		Aw, you're both a couple of a- holes...
****Dialogues from script :Cell.txt****

catherine		Thanks for the horse.
edward		You liked him?
catherine		He's beautiful...
edward		 's broken.
catherine		 Who says?
edward		Mocky-Lock.
catherine		Oh no... No you don't.
edward		"Mocky-Lock is the bogeyman.  Mocky-Lock wants me where I am."
catherine		I bet we can fix it.
miriam		Sing a song of sixpence...
catherine		 A pocketful of rye...
catherine		Baked in a pie...
henry		"Mister E." is doing fine.
miriam		Did we go sailing?
catherine		Almost.  Mocky-Lock showed up.
miriam		"Mocky-Lock is the bogeyman, Mocky-Lock wants me where I am."
catherine		Mocky-Lock is a pain in the ass.
henry		Where did that come from again?
catherine		A nursery rhyme.
miriam		 Nursery rhymes, fairy tales, the bogeyman... All preparation for the horrors of the real world.
henry		Anybody hungry?  I'm hungry...
cooperman		Edward's parents are here.
ella		He needs a haircut.
catherine		I'll tell the nurse.  God, he loves when you visit.
ella		My husband wonders if that's true.  He wants to place Edward in a hospital.
henry		There are other applications for the scanner, Mr. Baines...
lucien		I realize that, Henry...  And I know your work, Dr. Kent, is invaluable to this company...
catherine		You don't know about me, though, do you?
lucien		Catherine, we've waited eighteen months for signs of progress...
catherine		There's been progress.
lucien		Yes, but there is no proof the procedure works.  All I have is a belief that your interaction with my son is not a hallucination.
catherine		 You picked me, remember?  And I took the job.  Gladly.  This is the next wave and I want to be part of it...
cooperman		No one is doubting your ability.
catherine		Then what is it?
lucien		I've invested millions of dollars in this study... And I've convinced others to do the same.  I suppose I should feel responsible to them, but I don't.  I could care less if they see a profit. I'm responsible to my boy, that's all that matters.  You tell me... Am I doing the right thing?
anne		Thirty.
miriam		You okay?
catherine		He hates me.
miriam		Lucien Baines?
catherine		She thinks I can bring Edward back.
miriam		Someday you can.  We all believe that...
catherine		I want to try it.  Please.
miriam		We've been over this a dozen times.  No.
catherine		Why not?  Just once.  A trial run.  What harm could it do?
miriam		I don't want to find out.
catherine		Why is it taking so long for us to reach him?  Because we've been reactive, that's why.  And we need to be active.
miriam		Shush.
catherine		He creates the obstacles, he decides which games to play.
miriam		I've heard this argument before.  It's not happening.
catherine		 It could take years for me to get past the barriers he's created.
miriam		If we reverse the feed and bring Edward into your mind, it could be devastating for him.  Imagine the shock of suddenly existing in a whole other world.
catherine		I do it all the time!
miriam		Yes, but, you're a willing participant. Picture Edward in a strange place, lost, frightened...
catherine		I'd be there for him.
miriam		And he might blame you for terrifying him.  That one moment could erase all you've accomplished.  And if that happened, the trust he has in you is gone.
catherine		 Okay, okay...
miriam		Besides, I don't know what it might do to you.  You're already exhausted.  Have you been sleeping?
catherine		 No.
miriam		Good.  We need you healthy and relaxed. You're going to eat well, meditate, exercise, and watch mindless television.
catherine		Yes mother.
miriam		I don't want you up all night reading Edward's case file of the nine millionth time.  Balance, dear girl, is the key. Leave the work here.
catherine		Okay.
miriam		Henry wants me to try this Vietnamese place he's wild about.  Want to come?
catherine		 I've got to feed my cat.  Besides, I want to get to bed early.
miriam		That's my girl.
catherine		Pleasant dreams, Mister E.
catherine		Go.  To.  Sleep.
ramsey		Who found her?
cole		Surveyor for the railroad... 'Bout six this morning.
novak		Thanks for waiting, Teddy.
teddy lee		Bleach.
novak		Anne Marie Vicksey.
cole		She the one from Santa Cruz?
novak		Just graduated law school.  Single mom. Had a two-year-old daughter.
teddy lee		Someone looking after her little girl?
novak		Grandparents.  Live over in Davis.
teddy lee		The poor thing.
ramsey		Well, honey, what's worse?  Doing it yourself or asking your mother for help?  I have no idea, Jeannie.
novak		How is she?
ramsey		Pregnant.  Thanks for asking.
novak		Here he is.
ramsey		Damn, man, I give up.  Your partner tells you his wife's gonna have a baby, and all you care about is a coroner's report!
teddy lee		Hot off the presses.
ramsey		 More hair.  I could knit this guy a toupee.
teddy lee		 So?
novak		Anne Vicksey didn't own a dog.
teddy lee		Now?
novak		Now.
teddy lee		Complete absence of melanin.
ramsey		And that means?
novak		The dog's an albino.  He'd love an animal like that.
teddy lee		Gentlemen, I believe an albino dog is rare indeed.
julia		Oh no...
julia		God... I didn't see you.
stargher		 Good boy.
novak		Donna Krozin.  Helen Francis, Teresa Manicki...
ramsey		A purebred German Shepherd.
novak		Nicole Labetzki.  Victim seven. Forensics found dog hair in her car, but they had a K-9 unit at the scene and never had it checked.
teddy lee		The Phoenix office tested that hair thirty minutes ago.  And we got the match.
novak		It's his dog.
ramsey		Registered breeders of German Shepherds.
novak		Be thorough, but be fast.  This guy's accelerating. He only waited six days this last time. When he started, two months could pass.
distorted voice		Me god feed on pain.
distorted voice		Go sleep Carl.  Me god wake up now.
ramsey		She was still living at home?
john		We were looking at apartments.
ramsey		John, you came to pick her up when?
john		Eight o'clock.  We were going out for my birthday.
ramsey		No sir.  I'm sorry.
novak		After three years she remembers what the guy drove?
ramsey		She remembers because it was her "dream truck."  Wanted one just like it.
stockwell		Ramsey, Novak?
novak		Where is he?
stockwell		Edison.  Just east of Loma Park.  SWAT's had the house under surveillance for about twenty minutes.  Suspect is Carl Rudolph Stargher.  No registered weapons, no priors.  Got a license for his dog, though.  Named him Valentine...
novak		You're the bad man, aren't you, Carl?
brock		Glad you could make it.  We lose the sun in half an hour.
novak		Have they seen him?
brock		No.  There's been movement in the kitchen.  But it could be the dog.  You think she's in there?
novak		We proceed assuming she is.
ramsey		Let's give old Carl a call.  Tell him he's got company.
novak		No.  Can you get a man close?
ericson		I'm at the back door.
ericson		I have a man down.  Repeat, man down.
ericson		Can't see his face.
novak		Go.
ericson		FBI!
ericson		 I've got the dog!
novak		Paramedics.  NOW.
stockwell		They'll take him to County General. Reid's already there.
novak		Make sure he stays cuffed.  Two men on him at all times.  I don't want anyone treating him but Reid.  Not so much as a thermometer up his ass.  Understand?
ramsey		She's not here.
julia		Hey!
reid		Minimal activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.  And here, the anterior cingulate cortex.  It's what helps distinguish between external and internal stimuli.
ramsey		What the hell does that mean?
teddy lee		 He's schizophrenic.
ramsey		What're you doing here, Reid?  Paving the way for his insanity defense?
reid		No need.  There won't be a trial.  This is no act.  The coma is real.
ramsey		Whoa.  Wait a minute.
reid		You ever hear of Whalen's Infraction?
teddy lee		What about Thorazine? Or... Desoxyn?
reid		The normal psychotropics don't work. He's not just catatonic, he's... disappeared.  Like having a dream and never waking up.
novak		This girl.  Julia Hickson.  Only he knows where she is.
reid		Then I'm sorry.  For her and for you.
ramsey		We'll go back to his house, Pete. There's still a lot to do.  Analyze the videos, track sales of the bleach, go through his records.  Maybe he owns property somewhere.
novak		They're in that fucking thing for forty hours, Gordon.  Four-oh.  He got Julia at seven-thirty last night.  You know what time it is now...?!
reid		Peter?  This is a longshot.  I mean a real long shot.  You're gonna think I'm crazy...
catherine		 I'm not signalling!
miriam		 Sing a song of sixpence.
catherine		 What's wrong?
miriam		 Nothing.
catherine		 Why did we stop?
cooperman		 We have a situation.
miriam		When did he lapse into the coma?
novak		Sometime yesterday morning.
cooperman		 John and Ella Baines - as well as the Sunerset Board of Directors - have given their approval, but the decision is yours.
miriam		What about the legalities of this...?
novak		Stargher is in custody.  The functional equivalent of being under arrest. Normally, we'd Mirandize him, and if he didn't lawyer up, we'd interrogate him. But because of his condition, he doesn't have the capacity to waive those rights.
henry		So what you're asking us to do is illegal?
novak		No, not at all.  We're dealing with exigent circumstances.  Somewhere there's a kidnapped woman still alive.  If we weigh the suspect's Constitutional Rights against the public safety. The Law favors the victim and gives us a lot of leeway.  It's called the Public Safety Exception.
cooperman		So what can you do?
novak		Pretty much anything we want.  There's a chance to save a human life.  Because of that, Stargher has no reasonable expectation of privacy.
catherine		What if...?
novak		As far as I needed.
catherine		Do you think he'd tell you what you need to know?
novak		There's always a chance they'll confess.
catherine		Really?  I don't work with violent cases, I work with children.  But even a kid lies.  They love it when they get you to believe something that isn't true.  Don't you think Stargher would do the same?
novak		Sometimes... Once they've been caught they feel a need for disclosure.  They have so much they want to tell. But they've never had a sympathetic ear. They need someone to understand why.  Listen, he wasn't just careless.  It went beyond that...
catherine		Okay.  Let's assume he wanted you to find him, that some part of him hated what he was doing... Most likely, that part is dead.  Schizophrenics with Whalen's Infraction sever all ties with the real world.  I'm sorry, I really am.
ramsey		Is it possible?
catherine		If he came to trust me, yes, but it takes months to build that kind of trust.  Someone like Stargher can't distinguish between fantasy and reality. It's all the same.  He might tell me she's in Timbuktu and absolutely, one hundred percent believe it to be true, but she's...
fbi tech		 That gets you into the Bureau Database.
novak		Thanks.
ramsey		You sure you want to go through with this?
novak		What else do we do?!
ramsey		I don't know, Pete, but for god's sake... This is nuts.  Do you really understand what they're going to do?
novak		I don't have to.
ramsey		Why jeopardize what we've already done? We caught the sonofabitch.  Carl Stargher.  That's going to be like Bundy, Gacy, Dahmer.  A case that makes careers.  But if we push our luck.  If this is all bullshit and we come out smelling like it.
novak		Tell you what.  If this thing burns us, I take that heat.  I give you permission to point your finger at me and say "It was all his idea."
ramsey		 That's not what I'm talking about, Pete. I'm talking about waking up and realizing this girl's gonna die.
novak		That won't happen.
cooperman		They're ready.
henry		Shouldn't we get a catheter in him?
miriam		They took care of that, thank you, Henry. 
henry		Gentlemen, you stand before the one and only Neurological Cartography and Synaptic Transfer System.
novak		I still don't understand why I can't do this... This isn't some "troubled kid" you're dealing with.
catherine		I realize that...
novak		How hard could it be...?
catherine		The first... What?  Six or seven times I went in.   Remember what happened?
miriam		Disorientation, nausea, migraines, hallucinations, insomnia, paranoia.
catherine		Like a New Year's Day hangover.
miriam		He needs to be turned over.
novak		This man is deeply disturbed, he...
catherine		You don't know the procedure.
novak		I know him.
miriam		That may be true, but you don't have Catherine's gift.  She...  What happened here?
ramsey		We removed eight metal rings.
catherine		Then he should like this.
henry		Don't touch that, please.
ramsey		Sorry.
miriam		 This isn't your responsibility. Remember that.  Don't let them use guilt as a tool.  If you want to stop, say so.
catherine		I'll be fine.
miriam		She said convincingly.
novak		 That's the stuff?
henry		About twelve years of research, right Miriam?
miriam		Don't remind me.
ramsey		What is it - are they - exactly?
miriam		Psychostimulants, serotonin, stabilizers, meprobamate, Neurontin, lithium carbonate.  And my baby.  It duplicates and expands upon the effects of a chemical called oxytocin, forcing a break in the neuron connections that hold experience.  So new experience can form.
henry		There's a touch-sensitive microchip implanted in her hand.  If she becomes frightened, disoriented, or simply wants to end the session, she signals us to abort.
miriam		Although none of what she experiences is real, she can be tricked into thinking it is.  The mind is awfully gullible, so she needs to monitor herself.
catherine		No.  No.
novak		You said she has a "gift."
henry		Not a gift.  A highly evolved area in her cerebral cortex, that's all.  A genetic fluke.
miriam		Catherine has a tremendous capacity for empathy.  When we started, there were a number of test subjects - other therapists - who acted as "receivers."  All they did was observe and report.  Nothing more.  But Catherine, she had the ability to feel what was happening.  She understood. And the patient responded.  Edward engaged her in dialogue, took her places, showed her things.  He knew she cared.
catherine		Hello?
stargher king		 Where you come from priddy thing?
novak		What happened?
henry		Must've been rather unusual.
ramsey		What happens here?
henry		We don't talk about that.
novak		What happens?
henry		Well, Theoretically, while she's inside. If she came to believe that Stargher's world is her world, her mind has the power to convince the body that anything done to it is, um, actually done.
miriam		Pump in two liters of pure oxygen, please Henry.
novak		Dr. Kent?
miriam		Deep breaths.
catherine		Is it cold in here?
miriam		What happened?
novak		I'll get her...
novak		Edward Baines, I presume.  Hi, Ed.  I'm Pete.
catherine		Do you think that's funny?
novak		No.  Not at all.  From what I understand, he knows I"m here, isn't that right?
catherine		It doesn't have much to do with science.
novak		What then?
catherine		The soul.  The spirit.  Whatever you want to call it.
novak		Ah, the part of us that can't be explained.
catherine		Agent Novak?
novak		Peter, okay?
catherine		Do you feel there's a side of yourself you don't show people?
novak		Absolutely.  I suppose everyone does.
catherine		Just like we all have fantasies, right? Things only we know, that we don't share.
novak		That's what therapists are for, right?
catherine		During the sessions.  When I'm inside. I see those things.  What a person hides, what they despite, what they want to control.  With Stargher...
novak		What did you see?
catherine		 I don't want to talk in here.
catherine		Why'd you bring him here?
novak		You're the shrink, you tell me.
catherine		 As soon as I met him, you knew I'd say yes.  He makes Julia real for me.
novak		It's an old lawyer trick.  Target the emotions.  Do it right, you get a reluctant witness to testify, a scared kid to confess.
catherine		You thought Stargher wanted to be caught.
novak		I did, yeah.
catherine		You were right.  There's a part of him that knows the truth.  About what he did, about himself.
novak		What about Julia?
catherine		This is going to sound terrible, but... I don't think she matters anymore.  Not to him.  He never finished her.  The others...he was able to make them his.
novak		You think you can do this, don't you?
catherine		He might tell me about Julia.  The part of him that wants to help, that feels shame and remorse.  Who wants to be redeemed.
novak		 This is Stargher we're talking about?
catherine		Not Stargher, not really.  He's split himself right down the middle. Good/evil, right/wrong, merciful/cruel. A monster.  And an innocent child.  If I could reach the boy.
novak		Whoa.  Hold on.  Aren't they the same guy?
catherine		Don't you feel there are different sides to every personality?  Maybe even the worst of us is capable of one decent act.  We're all human.
novak		It's hard for me to see Stargher as human, capable of something like "remorse."
catherine		Then what is he?
novak		Evil.
catherine		If you believe that.
novak		Maybe this is a big fucking waste of time.
catherine		 What happened to Charles Gish?
novak		What difference does it make...?
catherine		Tell me.
novak		Right after the trial, the night after he was released.  Mr. and Mrs. Frank Simmons found Charlie sitting in their living room watching TV with their twelve-year old daughter Margaret.  He'd cut her right down the middle with a carving knife.
catherine		You're sure of that?
novak		Yes.  I am.
novak		Right here.
ramsey		Next time, tell me, okay?
novak		But you looked so cute.  All sleepy...
ramsey		Your colleagues want to know what to do with Stargher.
catherine		Tell them to prep him.  And that I'll be right there.
novak		Thank you.
catherine		I need something.
catherine		You're a good boy, aren't you, Valentine?
miriam		I hate to admit it, but there's something perversely satisfying about this.
henry		I think that's the whole point.
novak		 Remember, Julia Hickson is priority number one.  Nothing else matters.  Find out where she is.
catherine		Okay, okay...
catherine		Don't kid around, Henry...
catherine		Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I'm not sleepy.
catherine		Valentine?
catherine		Need some help?
martin		What did you do know?  You make a mess? I hate a mess.
woman		I got you a present, cutie-pie.
martin		Go back to bed, worm.
woman		It's okay, we was just.
martin		Shut up, cunt.
martin		Only girls play with dolls...
catherine		I want to help you, Carl.
stargher		Help me?  That's good.  That's a good one.  Liar.  Whore.  Cunt.
catherine		You sound like your father.
stargher		I am not like him.
catherine		Then help me.  Where is Julia Hickson?
stargher		Why?
catherine		Maybe, because you want to.
stargher		Is that right?  You think you know me?
henry		Miriam...
stargher king		Now shud you mouth, priddy thing, or me god slice you from the kunt to the tits.
miriam		Son of a bitch!
novak		When we got here, you just topped and pulled her out.
miriam		That was with Edward.  She's accustomed to his world.  Stargher's mind is unfamiliar territory.  She's "lost."  Someone has to go in. Remind her what's really happening.  And get her out.  Until then, she's at his mercy.
novak		Into Stargher.  Inside...
miriam		Yes.
julia		 Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.  Thy kingdom come, thy will be done.
miriam		I have done this, you know.  Been inside.
novak		No.
miriam		 Deep breaths.
henry		Pulse is rapid, pressure's a little high...
miriam		Nervous?
novak		Absolutely.
miriam		I have to ask you some things... Are you taking any prescription drugs?
novak		Prevacid.  For my stomach.
miriam		Any psychiatric medication?
novak		No.
miriam		What about narcotics?
novak		No.
miriam		I know your partner's here, but it's very important that you're honest.
novak		I am.  I'm a pretty boring guy.
miriam		I doubt that.
henry		We should hurry.
miriam		The first five minutes will be disorienting.  Give yourself time.  Let the drugs do the work.  If you can see, smell, feel, hear, taste things - you're on the right track.  Once you've acclimated, try to get a feeling for Catherine.  Instinct plays a huge role in this.  Trust it.
mother two		 My child is an abomination.  He is damned.  He has no soul.
mother three		Me god me boy.  Me god good son.
novak		Not real...
novak		You're Catherine Young.  You majored in Psych at UC San Diego.  You work for Sunerset Industries.
stargher king		 Me god gut you like a dear.
novak		Not real.  Not real.  Not real.
stargher king		 Nod reel, nod reel, nod reel...
catherine		Wait...
novak		Like hell "wait."
catherine		He wants us to follow.  The little boy...
novak		Little boy?!  That's him!
catherine		He brought you to me, didn't he?  If you want Julia to live, trust me.  Trust him.
catherine		Carl...
novak		Where the hell are we?
catherine		Carl, do you know?  Like on a map...
novak		Let's go.
catherine		CARL!
novak		COME ON!
catherine		I can't leave him!
henry		They're back.
novak		Get me out!
miriam		Don't move!
novak		Is she alright?
miriam		Yes.  But you're going to sit down right now.  I have to...
novak		This is Novak, who've I got?
cole		Agent Cole.
novak		I need you to find something in the basement...
cole		Already there.
novak		That hoist, with the winch...
cole		 Carver Industrial Equipment.
novak		Find out the history of that machine. Who bought it, used it, sold it.  And check Stargher's pay stubs.  I want to know every contractor he worked for. I'm calling you from the chopper in ten minutes.
ramsey		Jesus Christ, man, you look like hell.
novak		Considering where I've been...
ramsey		Whoa-whoa-whoa.  Mind telling me what the fuck is happening?
novak		I saw her.  Julia.  Alive.  I saw everything.
ramsey		You might've seen Jimmy Hoffa dancing with Timothy Leary.  I don't care.
catherine		...a pocketful of rye.
miriam		Four and twenty blackbirds...
catherine		Baked in a pie.
henry		The FBI has left the building.
miriam		Damn him.
catherine		What's wrong?
miriam		Agent Novak.  I didn't get a chance to clear him.
catherine		Go.  I'm fine.  Go.
miriam		Keep an eye on her.
julia		Do something, Julia.
ramsey		Pete, listen to me.  What did you really learn in there?  Anything new?  You really think Stargher gave you a save the-day clue?  What if this is all some kind of trick your head is playing on you?
henry		...there was a moment when we thought we'd lost Agent Novak as well.
henry		 She changed the codes.
miriam		What's wrong?
henry		It would take hours to re-route the system, and even if I did, I shouldn't.
ramsey		What are you talking about?
miriam		She's done it.  Stupid, stupid girl...
ramsey		Done what?
henry		Instead of going into his mind...
miriam		She's bringing Stargher into hers.
young stargher		Can...
catherine		 Oh...no, honey, I'm sorry.  It's doesn't work that way.
young stargher		He found me...
stargher king		Where thiisss att?!?!  Me god no like id here...
catherine		No.!
stargher king		No?!??!?!?!?
catherine		I said no.
stargher king		You funny.  You thing you stop me god?
catherine		My world...
catherine		No one deserves it, Carl.  No one.
stargher king		Yer world.  My knife.
stargher		Enough.
stargher king		Enuff?!?!
stargher		I'll tell you what's enough...
catherine		Carl!
stargher king		 Give it here, worm...
stargher		Enough.
martin		 Why?  What'd I do?...
young stargher		Time to go 'way.
catherine		Carl...?
young stargher		Bye.
stargher king		Thank you, Catherine.  You did help me. More than you'll ever know.
catherine		Goodbye Carl.
miriam		He's in full arrest.
pilot		Agent Novak?  Go ahead.
novak		Cole?
cole		The hoist was manufactured by Carver Industrial Equipment in 1982.  Serial number 117-337J.  Purchased by a boat shop in Lake Havasu, but sold to
catherine		Everything's alright now, Valentine.  I promise.
cole		Lattimer sold the hoist to a guy named Bainbridge who tired to build a machine works out near Delano.  Bainbridge ends up in bankruptcy court and the state winds up with the land - it's just sitting there.
novak		Delano?
cole		Yep.  And guess who they hired to seal up the place?
novak		You're kidding me.
cole		I never kid.  My wife hates it.  Says I'm too serious.
novak		The exact location, Cole.  Give it to me.
novak		TAKE IT DOWN!
novak		Cut the engine!
novak		JULIA!
miriam		I left the nutritional information on the fridge door.  Read it.
catherine		I don't need them anymore...
miriam		I know.
catherine		Thanks Miriam.  Say hi to Henry and...
miriam		...give a kiss to Edward.
catherine		 Give a kiss to Edward.
miriam		Agent Novak.
novak		Dr. Kent.
miriam		You're looking well.
novak		Thanks you.  Six weeks off does a body good.  I heard she got the approval to try the reversal with Edward.
miriam		That's a secret.
novak		Federal Bureau of Investigation, ma'am. We know all, see all...
miriam		Awaiting his arrival.
novak		What about the cat?
miriam		Completely unaware.
novak		Ready?
catherine		Ready.
novak		That went well.
catherine		Give her a minute.  Hello, Valentine.
novak		You sure about this?
catherine		Absolutely.  Abigail...
novak		Yep.  Eloped.
catherine		Good for them.
novak		Well look at that.
catherine		I told you.  You have to be optimistic. Believe in them...
novak		So you say.
catherine		He's mine?
novak		All yours.  My boss says it's one of the strangest requests the Bureau's ever had.
catherine		It doesn't matter...
novak		I don't know.  I think it does.  You know, Catherine... If you ever want to talk about it.  What happened to Stargher.  That last time.
catherine		Not just yet.  Okay?
novak		I got it.
catherine		Thank you.
novak		No problem.
catherine		No.  Thank you.
****Dialogues from script :Cellular.txt****

woman		 Yes Donna, I'm out the door. We TRACK over the Woman's shoulder and follow her into the kitchen, unable to see her face.
jessica		Buenas dias, Rosario.
rosario		Good morning Miss Jessica. Jessica sees her answering machine blinking, hits PLAY. In the background, a cheerful Rosario enters frame and heads for the back door carrying the basket of laundry.
male voice		 Honey? Honey, wake up.   Pick up the- And as she brings the coffee cup to her lips-- SLAMM!! The door EXPLODES open and a squad of FIVE GUNMEN storm in, wearing SKI-MASKS. Everything is a whirlwind of quick cuts, noise and confusion. Jessica's DOG starts to lunge at the men and -- thup! -- is stilled by a silenced pistol before its second bark. Rosario runs for the ALARM SYSTEM --
lead gunman		Get away from there! Don't touch that -- !! -- but as she reaches out for the PANIC BUTTON -- BLAM!!     He blows her away, too. The Gunman curses, then turns on Jessica.
jessica		Where is who?
lead gunman		Wrong answer. The bastard hauls back and -- WHAM I -- punches her in the face, knocking Jessica cold. Then he turns to his men.
craig vo		 -I'll call back later. The LEAD GUNMAN spins around, and we PUSH INTO the blackness of his masked face.
jessica		Wh... what do you want? Unsettlingly, the Kidnapper says nothing, staring at her. Jessica tries to remain calm under his angry gaze... Then suddenly, the Kidnapper turns and exits the room. Jessica breathes a sigh of relief...but it catches in her throat as he returns ten seconds later -- with a BASEBALL BAT. Grim as death, he stalks toward her --
the ocean		Skimming along the water. And we TILT UP to reveal the majestic beaches of Southern California, and at the center of it all, the SANTA MONICA
ryan		You recording this?
ryan		Move, bitch. He gets an EXTENDED PLAY and the screen flashes "NEW RECORD." Nearby, a KID watching the game nods.
kid		Nice. The HIGH SCORE starts rising to match Ryan's score.
ryan		Get that? Ryan turns around to see Chad has shoved the cellphone down the front of his tattered shorts. And he's freeballing it.
chad		Check it; Attack of the Bubblegum Monster in Hi-Def videostream-
ryan		C'mon Chad, I gotta put my mouth on that. Holding a cup of soda between his teeth, Chad pulls the cellphone out of his pants and hits "SEND".
chad		 Sweet. It's going to my email right now. S9me soda inadvertently SPILLS onto the cellphone and Chad wipes it dry on his pants.
ryan		Watch it dude, I gotta return that thing in seven days.
chad		They aren't giving you shit yet?
ryan		Nah, whenever I return it, I just list off why the phone sucks and they give me a new model. Figure by the tenth time I'll have to go somewhere else. Ryan's car finally CRASHES in a wall of flames.       Game Over.
the ocean		As seen looking over the rail of the pier.      The tide is in, but it's still a forty foot drop.
chad		Go already. No one's looking. His left hand holds his WALLET.
ryan		Waterproof. But as soon as Ryan covertly CLIMBS ONTO THE RAIL, his left leg starts trembling like crazy.
chad		My ass. Not after you made me march in the Gay Pride Parade wearing a thong.
ryan		Screw it then. In one... Two... Two and a half--
chad		Whole numbers only, Rabbitfoot. Ryan stares at the waves crashing below. His leg starts snaking like crazy... And he chickens out, hopping back to the deck.
ryan		Got any more? I'm here to help.
chloe		Thanks, but no, we got 'em all.
ryan		What's in 'em? Chloe opens the box.    Hands him a "Heal The Bay" pamphlet.
chloe		Yeah, wanna help? Ryan tries to ignore his thundering heart.
ryan		Hell yeah.     I'm all about "Heal the Bay. " His eyes ricochet off the pamphlet in his hand.
chloe		Chloe. The handshake lingers a second longer than necessary, and they both smile at each other. Chad splits.
ryan		You ever go up to Santa Barbara? My dad used to take me there all
chloe		Maybe you and I can take a break later when Pat Benatar goes on.
ryan		Sounds like a plan. There's a moment...     Then --
chloe		Oh no -- I forgot. I still have to pick up a box of T-shirts at the Kinkos on Venice.
ryan		I'll do it for you... if you want.
chloe		Seriously, you would?
ryan		Sure.     How much is the bill?
chloe		Nothing.    It's been paid up front.
ryan		Do you promise not to go anywhere?
chloe		Done. Ryan makes a graceful exit.       Turns back.
ryan		Okay, I won't be long.
chloe		 Bye. Ryan grabs Chad, and as they walk out of earshot:
ryan		Dude, does Santa Barbara have a harbor or a pier?
ryan		 Dex, wassup? You won't believe the hotties I just met at the pier. Smoking. You wanna meet them? Yeah? Well don't get too excited 'cause I need my money. Ryan stops at a red light.
ryan		Sorry, got cut off.      Hey -- what's my Caller ID say? But there's no voice on the other end, only shuffling sounds.
ryan		Whatever.    Signing off- -- and is just about to hit END CALL when he hears a tiny female voice on the other end.
ryan		Hello?
ryan		 Oh really? Kidnapped, huh?
ryan		Awfully polite kidnappers to give you a phone... Jessica's voice TREMBLES uncontrollably.        Desperate, fearful and frustrated.
ryan		If you were really in trouble, you would've called the cops, not me. Now I've got a real call on the other line--
ryan		Hmm. Sucks to be you. Try crank yanking someone else. Late.
jessica		Wait!     Don't hang up!    DON'T HANG UP!! But -- CLICK!       Ryan flashes over to the next call.
ryan		Dex?
telemarketer		Hello, Mr. Ackerman. My name is Mark and I'd like to discuss with you the benefits of Mastercharge Credit Union's-
telemarketer		Absolutely.     We've lowered our APR-
ryan		-Shucks, now's really not a good time, but why don't I get your number and get back to you later.
ryan		That's the office number?
telemarketer		Yes.
ryan		Why don't you give me your number instead. That way I can call you when you're having dinner with your family. A beat.
telemarketer		Sorry to have bothered you. Click!    The Telemarketer hangs up.
ryan		Damn skippy. And that's when he notices the message flashing on the phone's faceplate: CALL ON HOLD. Ryan clicks the FLASH button to pick it up...and Jessica is still there.
ryan		You still there? You're getting kinda creepy, lady. See ya.
jessica		No!    Don't! They're going to kill me!    They're going to kill me!! A silent beat.   A calculated look in her eyes... RYAN pulls the phone from his ear and is about to hang up...when he hears the one sound that stops all men cold. On the other end, Jessica begins to CRY.
ryan		Oh, it's like that, huh?     Nice with the fake tears, lady...
jessica		Please...   I just need help. But Ryan won't be manipulated.
ryan		You need acting lessons. Now go take your meds and bug someone else.
jessica		These men!!!-- Jessica stops herself short, quieting the rising hysteria in her voice before it gives her away. She glances anxiously at the attic door, then continues, more in control.
ryan		No, actually( I don't. Not with a hot chick waiting for me at the pier.
jessica		Please...you're my only hope.  What's your name? That catches Ryan off-guard.   He stalls, not wanting to make this personal.
ryan		Why, you writing a book--?
jessica		--Please, just tell me your name! Ryan glances around the street, his eyes falling on a stone fountain outside a French Restaurant.
ryan		Uh...Johnny. Johnny Fountain.
jessica		Johnny... What if it was your mother who was calling for help? How would you feel?
ryan		Well, I'd be damn impressed, considering she's dead.
jessica		Goddamn it, how difficult is it to hand this phone off to the police?! I'll pay you!
ryan		How much?
jessica		Five thousand dollars.
ryan		Sure you will. I'm hanging up now.
jessica		No, wait! WAIT!! Even if there's a eighty percent chance I'm lying, you nave a one in five chance to make five grand f9r a lousy twenty minutes of your life.  Haven't you ever bet on a horse or bought a Lottery ticket? I'm talking one-in-five odds, twenty minutes. Ryan slaps the radio off.
ryan		What do you want me to do?
rookie officer		Problem, Mooney. If I put this one in with the others, there's gonna be a bloodbath.
gangbanger		Put me in there! I'll waste all them pussies! REVEAL SERGEANT BOB MOONEY -- a tough, fifty-something beat cop who's fighting growing old every step of the way. He rolls his eyes at the situation and takes a bite of PIZZA.
mooney		Come on Powell, put the Sharks with the Sharks, the Jets with the Jets and make room. Rookie Powell suppresses his irritation and roughly yanks the Gangbanger back over to the holding cells. Mooney puts down the pizza, no appetite, and stares at the news story playing on the TV mounted in the corner.
news reporter		...was somber when the indictments came down this afternoon in the 23rd Precinct corruption scandal. Though the names of six police officers were read aloud, the District Attorney stated that this was merely the "tip of the iceberg" and that unfortunately many other arrests are likely to be coming as the investigations proceed.
detective tomlin		Sucks for the fellas at the Two- Three right now, huh?
mooney		Dirty pricks deserve what they get. Public hates us enough without this shit.
detective tomlin		 There's good men over there. A FEMALE OFFICER passes Mooney and reaches for his box of pizza.
female officer		Mooney? What are you doing?      You can't be eating this crap. Mooney plants his own firm grip on the box.
mooney		Keep walking, Shelly.   Nothing to see here. A friendly tug of war.
female officer		You sure you wanna do that?     What would your wife say? That's it. Mooney snatches his lunch back and turns to lecture this little girl.
mooney		She'd say nothing, 'cause she's not gonna know about it! Christ, Shel, my old man had eleven heart attacks. Eleven! I have one little infarction and you guys start treating me like an invalid! I'm a grown man! Leave me alone, will you?!
female officer		 I was merely referring to your cottage-cheese ass. Mooney sighs and lifts his pizza to his mouth when -- WHAMM! The station doors burst open and two dozen GANG MEMBERS are bum-rushed into the room by a squad of COPS in riot gear. The screaming is deafening.
17.		 22                                                                   22
mooney		I hate this place.
ryan		 I'm here.
mooney		is busy doing ten things at once. Signing release papers. Booking a DRUNK whose wife-beater Tee is drenched in blood, Etc.
ryan		Excuse me, officer -- But Mooney ignores him in favor of the three cops that suddenly need arrest sheets signed.
crackhead trannie		Loosen these, man, please?! Jus' gimme a chance--
crewcut officer		Hey, Moon! Where do you want me to put Whitney Houston?
mooney		Christ, I've only got two hands here! Stick him in the can, will ya? Crewcut nods and moves off towards the bathroom.
ryan		 Come on, man! I've got some lady on the phone here who says she's been kidnapped!
18.		 24                                                                         24
mooney		Nice try, kid, but I got no time for pranks.
ryan		Seriously, a lady was murdered!
mooney		Which is it, a kidnapping or a murder?
ryan		Take the phone and find out moron! A COP snickers somewhere.
jessica		Please. . .
mooney		Okay.   Give it here. Ryan thrusts the phone at him, happy to get rid of it.
mooney		Ah shit. Mooney holds out the phone.
19.		 26                                                                  26
jessica		Hello?    Officer? Hello?!
mooney		Up the stairs, Tomlin! Ryan turns away, and as he returns the cellphone to his ear, he's startled to hear--
ryan		What? What is it?
lead kidnapper		Where's your husband?
jessica		What?     I don't- The masked leader SLAPS HER SHARPLY across the face! Jessica wants to collapse to the ground, but remains sitting TO KEEP THE PHONE HIDDEN behind her. The Leader bends down and yells right in her face.
20.		 29                                                                         29
lead kidnapper		Where is he!?
jessica		At work!     Why, what do you want--? SLAP!!!   This one's even nastier than the first.
ryan		Oh shit... Panicking, Ryan turns and walks, then jogs, then all-out runs for the station stairwell.
jessica		Please, he should be at work! That's all I know. The Leader nods, then turns away. Jessica exhales with relief that he didn't spot the phone. But her victory is short-lived as:
lead kidnapper		You have a little boy, right? Ricky? The Wyman School in Westwood? Jessica gasps like a sledgehammer just hit her in the chest.
ryan		I know.    I'm trying to get help.
21.		 32                                                                   32
jessica		My son -- Suddenly, as Ryan reaches the first landing -- STATIC starts breaking up the call.
ryan		It's just static. I'm running upstairs to the detectives. Hold on, I might lose you for a sec--
ryan		 Wait, we're almost there.
jessica		 Stop! Johnny, goddamn it, stop!
ryan		Well, what the hell am I supposed to do?! Ryan looks at himself, standing on the stairs like an idiot.
jessica		Johnny, what time is it?! Johnny!
ryan		 Who? Oh -- one-twenty.
jessica		Johnny, listen to me. My son's
ryan		Good, then if I get a cop-- Ryan exits the stairwell to find Mooney -- but Mooney's not there anymore! There's some NEW GUY -- and he's SWAMPED!
jessica		No. There's not enough time. You have to pick him up before they--
ryan		Pick him up? Hell no, lady!     I ain't goin' nowhere else-- Ryan tries to get the NEW GUY's attention, in a dream.
jessica		Please please stop standing there! He 's just a little boy!
ryan		But I'm in a police station!
jessica		Go! Ryan grunts in frustration.
reveal greer		Forties, salt and pepper hair.    He looks to his crew:
23.		 34                                                                     34
greek		Go get the kid. Instantly, a hulk of a man  stand and exit the house. As Greer stalks away( BOOM DOWN the bar to REVEAL a telephone sitting there, unnoticed by the men -- and on its face, the LINE-IN-USE INDICATOR LIGHT is lit. PUSH IN on the flashing orange light that threatens to give Ryan and Jessica's call away. Closer and closer, until we ENTER the phone and TRAVEL THROUGH THE WIRES to --
ryan		You've gotta chill! You're stressing the crap out of me!  Where the hell is a cop hiding in a speed trap when you need one? Ryan takes a hard right, tires squealing.    Pushing it against his better judgment.
ryan		What do you do?
jessica		I'm an obstetrician. They don't want anything from me.
24.		 36                                                                      36
ryan		So your husband's like, uber-rich?
ryan		Could they've mistaken you for someone else?
jessica		No! I don't know.    None of this makes any sense. Jessica starts losing it completely, upsetting Ryan so much that he takes the next corner too fast and -- SKKRRASH! --
ryan		Oh...SHIT!! Ryan SLAMS on the brakes and SWERVES to avoid hitting a group of workers -- and OBLITERATES THE BRONCO'S PASSENGER SIDE MIRROR against another BARRIER -- Ryan cringes with every muscle! And the mirror ricochets off the ground -- and smashes through the windshield of a recently waxed Acura Legend!
25.		 38                                                                      38
ryan		Okay, I'm here.
ryan		Five minutes. What's your kid's name?
ryan		Ricky what?
jessica		Martin.
ryan		Ricky Martin? You named your kid Ricky Martin?! Why didn't you tattoo "kick me" on his ass while you were at it?
jessica		He was named before the singer ever-
ryan		Forget it.     What does he look like?
ryan		They're all wearing blue shirts and pants! Ryan turns down a hallway and we see that he's right.      It's filled with IDENTICALLY-UNIFORMED LITTLE BOYS. As a TIMID BLONDE BOY passes in front of him, Ryan grabs him and wheels him around.
timid boy		Don't touch me!
ryan		No, kid, it's okay!    I didn't mean to--
26.		 38                                                                    38
timid boy		Help!   Don't touch me!   Don't touch!! Ryan quickly moves on... aware that other ADULTS are now beginning to take notice of him.
ryan		You don't remember your own kid's lunch box?!
jessica		I don't pack it! Rosario, our housekeeper does! Sometimes Craig, but... Jessica begins to sob, which causes Ryan to panic further.
ryan		Ricky Martin, where are you!? None of the Stepford kids respond.
ryan		Ricky Martin?
ryan		I'm looking for a little blond boy--  --No, no! Not like that!
gym teacher		Sir, come with me, please! Ryan isn't going anywhere. And that's when the BELL RINGS. Like a nightmare, HUNDREDS OF UNIFORMED LITTLE BOYS come racing out of their classes.
ryan		Oh shit...
27.		 38                                                                    38
ryan		Yes.    RICKY! RICKY MARTIN!! Ryan wades through the sea of uniforms.
gym teacher		Where do you think you're going? --causing the phone to fly out of Ryan's hand and --crack!-- hit the pavement.
ryan		No--! Ryan tugs his arm free and races to the phone.   The LCD display GLASS is cracked into a SPIDERWEB.
ryan		No one's gonna get your kid!    He's not slow, is he?
28.		 38                                                                    38
ryan		Then he won't go anywhere with strangers.
ryan		What color?
jessica		Black!
ryan		 Of course it is. PAN AROUND to see what Ryan sees -- three black Cadillac Escalades.
ryan		Like you don't remember the lunch box? Or anything else about your kid--  Oh, man. This is a prank, isn't it?
ryan		Bullshit! Oh, you're good lady. Your friends too. Getting me to scream out 'Ricky Martin' at a boys school. Damn, you really nailed me.
29.		 38                                                                   38
ryan		I'm done being your entertainment for the day. I'm going back to the pier while I still have a chance -- -- and passes right by a blonde-haired, green-eyed, EIGHT- YEAR-OLD BOY carrying a Lord of the Rings lunchbox. Ryan hesitates and is about to stop the kid...but then decides "screw it", and keeps on hoofing. Ryan rounds a corner to leave -- and is confronted by the Gym Teacher and a RENT-A-COP SECURITY GUARD.
gym teacher		Here he is! He's the one that's been stalking the students.
ryan		Stalking?!     No, I can explain-- The Rent-a-Cop mumbles into his walkie.
ryan		 pulls up in the driveway below. The Security Guard starts forcibly leading Ryan toward it, but as he gets close--
30.		 38                                                                    38
ryan		 Goddamn it, that little kid was just kidnapped!! Do something!!
ryan		Don't worry, I can fix this.
ryan		It's okay, I can see them ahead.
31.		 39                                                                        39
ryan		Okay.
ellis		 Do you want me to change the station to something else? Ricky refuses to answer.        Ellis turns around, his fake smile quickly vanishing.
ricky		Where's Rosario?
ellis		I told you, kid, she had a doctor's appointment, so your mother asked us to pick you up. Don't worry, you'll see your mommy in a few minutes. Ricky nods... but we can tell by the look on his face that he's not buying their story one bit.
32.		 41                                                                        41
ryan		Damn!     There's this stupid bus-- Ryan jags left and right, catching glimpses around the bus of the Escalade still ahead.
ryan		Goddamn it!
ryan		No, I just almost got killed, is all.
jessica		Oh thank God!
ryan		Thank God?  That's nice. Just then, the bus signals that it's pulling over.
33.		 41                                                                     41
ellis		 Anyone following us? Deason checks:
deason		Nan.
34.		 44                                                                    44
ryan		No, No!    just give me a second-- As Jessica goes off, Ryan tosses the phone down and focuses on finding the Escalade. He floors the rent-a-cop car, engine CLATTERING, to the intersection. Ryan franticly searches in every direction, but the Escalade is nowhere to be seen. He floors it.
dissolve to:		j    INT. 15TH PRECINCT - LOCKER ROOM - DAY                           45 Mooney changes out of his blues, his ears glued to THREE COPS in the corner, boasting about an arrest.
cop one		-- so of course everyone's playing dumb to what kind of drugs he's on. The cops start to snicker; they've all heard that one before.
mooney		It must've been around '84, when... The Cops turn around, while grabbing their stuff.
35.		 45                                                                     45
cop two		Sorry Moon, we're late for a briefing. Mooney waves them on, but looks disappointed for not being able to join in.
mooney		Hey Tomlin.
detective tomlin		Taking off?
mooney		 Hey, I sent some college kid down to see you this morning. Had some rap about a kidnapping --
detective tomlin		I haven't seen anyone, but I'll ask around. Kidnapping, huh?
mooney		I thought it was a prank at first, but the kid was so worked up--
detective tomlin		Well, don't you get worked up.  If the kid comes back, page me, and I'll be sure to see him.
mooney		 Yeah. Okay, Jack. Thanks. And as Tomlin walks off --
36.		 46                                                                            46
ryan		Are you high?! I just jacked a car!  JESSICA  Goddamn it, stop thinking about just yourself! You can explain everything to them later!  SUDDENLY -- SFX: RYAN'S PHONE BEGINS BEEPING.
ryan		What now? Ryan pulls the phone away from his ear and checks it out.
jessica		Don't you have a charger?
ryan		It's in my car!      Hold on. SFX:   BEEP-BEEP!    The battery indicator has lost another bar. Ryan fumbles around in the armrest. Finds nothing. Opens the glovebox and -- a snub-nosed .38 SPECIAL tumbles out.
jessica		What's going on? Did you find one?
ryan		 Not exactly... SFX:   BEEP-BEEP!!     Jessica starts growing afraid.
jessica		Johnny, don't lose me!
ryan		Well what the hell do you expect me to do?! Just then, Ryan rounds a corner -- and sees traffic GRIDLOCKED to a halt ahead. He tries to maneuver around it, but is almost immediately boxed in.
jessica		Johnny--!
37.		 46                                                                   46
ryan		I know, Jessica! The phone starts a STEADY BEEPING now, dying imminent. And traffic isn't going anywhere. Ryan looks around desperately. Nothing. No emergency lane. No shoulder. Just a long drop down a HILL to a strip mall below-- STRIP MALL?! Ryan scans it and does a double-take on one of the store's signs: "VERIZON WIRELESS". Traffic inches forward. Now he sees an OFF-RAMP a quarter- mile ahead -- but at this rate, it'll take forever to make it there.
ryan		I'm giving myself a raise.
ryan		 mmmrrmph mrm mrmph! Ryan is bounced around like a corn kernel in a popper until the car hits a jutting rock and -- WHOOOOM! -- goes up on two wheels. It looks like it's going to roll but gravity brings
irate customers		Hey, what do you think you're doing? There's a line! -- to the OVERLY-PERKY SALESMAN helping someone else.
ryan		Excuse me--
ryan		Hey! Hey!      I've got an emergency here --
busy saleswoman		Sorry, I'm on break--
ryan		Damn it, will you listen to me?! I've got a life and death call on this phone and my battery's dying! Do you have a charger?
busy salesman		Sure.  Take a number and one of the sales associates will grab you one when your turn comes up.
ryan		Bu t-- !
saleswoman		Take a number. The room starts spinning around him. It's clear no one's going to help him. Like the clap of doom, the NOW-SERVING DISPLAY on the wall flips happily to "#72"
ryan		Aw, screw this... -- Ryan pulls the rent-a-cop's big .38 SPECIAL from his pocket and BLOWS THE SMILEY FACE DISPENSER TO DUST!
40.		 48                                                                       48
mooney		Hi, honey. Yeah, I'm gonna be a few minutes late... And as Mooney closes the door and starts up the engine--
male voice		 I called earlier and... Jess, I'm in serious trouble. I can't explain right now, but we're all in danger. Please, just grab Ricky and meet me in left field. PAN UP to an ATTRACTIVE WOMAN listening to the machine.
ryan		Whew!   That was so no bueno!
ryan		Among other things... Ryan glances at piles of phone gear he's appropriated from Verizon. EARBUD MIKES. MANUALS. RECEPTION BOOSTERS.
jessica		Thank you for doing all this, Johnny.
ryan		Yeah, look, about that...  My-name isn't really Johnny Fountain.
jessica		Good, it sounded like a porn star name.  It's okay. I know. You don't have to tell me --
ryan		It's Ryan. Ryan Ackerman. I'm a bar-back. I'm twenty-two, and just a little freaked out right now. Jessica is moved with emotion by his honesty.
jessica		Thank you, Ryan. But before they can say any more, suddenly--
42.		 52                                                                         52
greek		Do you want to die here? Jessica drains white -- Does he see the phone?!
ryan		Oh shit!
jessica		N-no... Jessica scoots away, trying to draw Greer's eyes in another direction from the phone that lies OUT IN THE OPEN.
greer		Up to you. Your husband left a message asking you to meet him in left field. Where's that?
jessica		What?   I don't understand--? Greer winds up and BAM! Hits Jessica in the stomach, knocking the wind out of her and causing her to fall to the ground.
greer		--A base ball field !? Wh ich o ne does he mean?!
jessica		 I... I don't know what you want me to say. I swear--
greer		Shut up!!! Which field?! He wouldn't leave a message that didn't make sense to you! Greer tightens his fist and is about to hit Jessica again--
jessica		Wait! The bleachers behind left field at Dodger Stadium! That's where we first met.
43.		 54                                                                     54
greer		Working in my profession as long as I have, you begin to recognize the truth when you hear it. Jessica, trembling, hangs on Greer's every word.
jessica		Ricky!
hodges		Shoot hoops.
ricky		I..   I don't feel like it.
hodges		 Shoot. Nervously, Ricky begins to bounce the ball.
44.		 58                                                                        58
greek		You have three seconds to tell me where he really is or you're going to a funeral.
ryan		Oh Jesus!    Oh Jesus!!
greer		One.. .
jessica		Please!     Please, believe me! Ricky plays innocently -- while Hodges now COCKS his pistol.
greer		Two. Frantic, Jessica locks eyes with Hodges, silently pleading for him not to do this. Hodges stares back with glacial ice.
jessica		 Please, he's just a child!
ryan		 Goddamn it, listen to her!     She doesn't know!!
jessica		No...no.'    I swear that's all I know! Greer gives a sigh of disbelief --
45 .		 62                                                                        62
greek		Thre--
jessica		OKAY! ... okay...  LAX Airport! There's a bar called Left Field. That's where we met. We were in college on our way to Mardi-gras.
jessica		Please God, I swear that's the truth. Don't kill my son!
greer		 Most people don't get past two. Greer signals, and:
hodges		Okay, kid.     Let's go.
jessica		You won't get away with this. When I didn't show up at the hospital, someone must have called the police--
greer		The police are the last people on earth I'm worried about... Greer pulls a Police Scanner out of his jacket and shows it to Jessica.
jessica		Do you honestly expect me to believe we're going to walk away from this alive? But Greer isn't listening to her. He strides back into the room, listening to the noise under her voice.
greer		 Shut up.
ryan		Oh shit!   Where's mute?!
essica		...your child, then--
47 .		 70                                                                       70
cut to:		x - >
ellis		Well?
greer		The Left Field sports bar at LAX.
ellis		Are you positive? Greer ignores him.    Then turns to Deason.
greer		Tell Hodges we move in ten. Deason nods and moves off.
48.		 75                                                                     75
ryan		You all right?!     I thought they--
ryan		What are you doing?    Why'd you lie to them?
jessica		 Do you think I like gambling with my son's life?
ryan		I can't tell. You seem pretty good at it --
jessica		Don't you see, Ryan? Once they get Craig, we're all gonna die.
ryan		You can't know that for sure.
jessica		Be realistic. Does letting us live benefit them in any way? No! The only chance he's got is if you can get to the airport and find him before they do.
ryan		Wait, wait--!
jessica		Ryan, please! There's no time! Just get to the airport--
ryan		It's suicide. They'll kill me!
49.		 77                                                                     77
ryan		Lady, I've jacked two cars, been accused of being a child molester, obliterated a car dealership, and busted three caps in a Verizon store. -- Don't tell me I'm not trying! Jessica tries another tack.
jessica		Look, I have no right to ask you this Ryan, but you re my family's only chance...and I am asking. Something in the way she says that last sentence, a mixture of strength and vulnerability, gets through to Ryan. And against his own will, he's swayed.
ryan		 I'll get the phone to your husband, but that's gotta be it, okay?!
mooney		Ms. Martin?
attractive woman		Yes?
mooney		Jessica Kate Martin? The Woman nods. Mooney is plainly disillusioned by the woman. Maybe his hunch was wrong...
attractive woman		Cam I help you, Officer...? She scans Mooney's badge.
50.		 78                                                                       78
mooney		Mooney.  No. No, I guess not. Must've been a prank. I m sorry to have b9thered you, Ms. Martin. Have a nice day. The Woman smiles and nods, and Mooney walks off. When he gets to his car, he CRUMPLES the paper with Jessica's name and address, and shakes his head, chuckling at himself. As Mooney drives off--
attractive woman		It's Bayback. Remember the Fusco brothers? Silence.
51.		 79                                                                  79
detective tomlin		And no bullshit. Right now you're entire department's hot, so if I'm gonna get in the tub, I've got to know how deep it is.
ryan		I'll be at the airport in twenty minu --
ryan		 Jessica, this car has a sewing machine for an engine! I can't go any faster!
jessica		Sorry.   I just...
ryan		Jessica... ? There's an emotional beat, then--
jessica		Do you think God will forgive me?
ryan		What do you mean--?
jessica		For what I've done...   For giving up Craig... Ryan is moved by the emotion in her voice.
ryan		Jessica, they have your kid. You had no choice.
jessica		I don't know. I don't know...
ryan		1 know. I heard what they were doing to you over there. You held out for as long as you could.
jessica		 My son and I are going to die here, Ryan. They already have us. But maybe I could've saved Craig... The truth of this has a profound effect on Ryan. And just when Jessica is about to lose herself to despair -- Ryan finds a resolve within himself even he didn't know he had.
ryan		Jessica, listen to me. I promise you, I'm not going to let that happen. I could care less about your money. I'm risking my life cause I know I'm gonna get you and your family out of this. You hear what I'm sayin'?
53.		 81                                                                   81
ryan		 Jessica? Are you still there?
ryan		Listen dude, this woman's in serious --
ryan		 Jessica, don't hang up! You hear me?! Whatever happens --
ryan		Jessica?!     Jessica?! As Ryan goes mental, a CAR PASSES HIM on the opp9site side of the road -- a new Cadillac XLR convertible! Inside is an appropriately asshole-ish looking guy. He could only be the British Asshole.
54.		 81                                                                      81
ryan		Give me that phone... or I shoot your car! Cowell is prepared to comply -- but suddenly behind them--
55 .		 83                                                                   83
ryan		Ain't that a bitch! Ryan turns back to Simon Cowell.
simon cowell		It's on speaker! Ryan turns to the car.    Calls out.
ryan		Jessica?
simon cowell		Your career's over!    YOU HEAR ME?!
56.		 85                                                                     85
ryan		You're okay. It's okay now.
ryan		Your car's here. Ryan pulls along side the red curb and watches as four tough- looking men exit the vehicle. We recognize them as Greer, Deason, Ellis and Hodges.
ryan		Oops. Excuse me. Pardon me. My grandmother needs her walker... Soon, he makes his way to the front, right behind Greer and BUMPS into him. As he does, NOTICE -- ECU of Ryan slyly slipping the rent-a-cop's tiny .38 Special into Greer's heavy motorcycle jacket. Greer turns, glaring -- But no one's there. Greer looks around, and there's a heart-stopping moment that we're afraid he's going to notice Ryan, who now stands innocently the next line over-- --but Greer's eyes pass right over him as he scans the crowd. Ryan breathes a sigh of relief as Greer finally turns away to walk through the metal detector and...
detector operator		Excuse me, sir. Would you mind emptying your pockets over here? Confused, Greer does. He lays his wallet on the table, then his keys... Then looks baffled as he pulls out -- the GUN 1
ellis		 Wait, this is a mistake--
58.		 89                                                                    89
ryan		Listen to me! They're clearing the terminal. Before your husband passes me, what does he look like?
ryan		 That's not enough! What's he wearing?
ryan		Found him!
59.		 91                                                                          91
national guardsman		You can't be here now. You have to leave the area.
ryan		But --
national guardsman		Now, sir. And as Ryan is marched away he sees--
greer		-- if you'd just listen to me! I can explain! Someone reach into my coat pocket! Goddamn it, reach into my pocket!
young guardsman		Hey, this one's on the job.
ryan		Holy shit, Jessica, these guys are cops!
superior officer		Run it.  Is that your gun?
greer		 --yes. Yes. It's my piece.
superior officer		Well, you're supposed to declare it.
60.		 92                                                                      92
greek		I know. We just got focused on a rabbit we're here to nab. Just then, the Young Guardsman returns.
young guardsman		He's clean. Badge matches his I.D.
superior officer		 Unhook 'em. Stand down security.
ryan		 Hey, can I go now? Can I go?! The Guard nods, and Ryan takes off like a shot, racing back towards the bar. Ryan spots Craig Martin outside the Left Field sports bar. Ryan grabs him by the elbow and starts hustling him through the concourse.
craig		Hey, what the hell?!    Get your hands off m--!!
ryan		Shut up and keep walking. If they see us they'll kill us both.
craig		What--?
ryan		Your wife sent me.
craig		She did?   But how--?
ryan		Would you hurry your ass?! You need to hide. They're here, and they're looking for you. They already have your family. Craig looks at him, growing terrified.
61.		 93                                                                   93
craig		I don't understand--
ryan		It's okay. She'll explain it to you.  Okay, Jessica, I'm handing you over now.
jessica		 Ryan, you've done so much.     I don't know how to repay you... An awkward, emotional pause falls between them.
ryan		Forget about the cash. Just get you and y9ur son home safely and we'll call it even.
jessica		I will.   I promise.
craig		 Okay. Ryan walks out the restroom door as Craig puts the phone to his ear. He sighs with relief -- it's finally over.
62.		 96                                                                      96
ellis		 Nice move. What the hell you bring a gun for?
greek		I didn't.
ellis		 What do you mean?
greer		Just keep your eyes open! Something weird is going on. Greer stares daggers at everyone he passes. Ellis Io9ks around before glancing down at a PHOTO COPY of a California driver's license.
ryan		Shit!
63.		 98                                                                   98
greek		Make a scene and you'll never see your family again. Now who's here with you? Craig's eyes swell with fear.
craig		Who, what?... No one!   Nobody!
greer		Answer me! Greer looks around the crowded airport.
craig		I'll forget I saw anything, just leave them alone! Whatever.    Greer manhandles Craig toward the exit.
greer		For your family's sake, you better not have done anything stupid. RYAN snatches the phone from the bogus Craig Martin -- and hauls ass through a sea of travelers, trying to catch up to --
but ryan		Has more difficulty. Gets STALLED and SWEPT AWAY in the crowd long enough for the kidnappers to make it outside--
craig		You goddamn animals better not have hu rt -- Greer surprises him with a vicious ELBOW to the face.
greer		Animals? Ellis whips a burlap hood over Craig's head and they drive off just as--
65.		 102                                                                       102
marilyn		Yes. He said you looked distracted when you left. He wants you to relax, Bob. He said they found that kid you were looking for and that you were right, it was all a prank. Nothing to worry about.
mooney		Yeah, I know. She pulls him back down for another kiss.
marilyn		What am I gonna do with you?
mooney		You're gonna dance with me all night long, until we're too pooped to pop... Well almost. A giggle.    They kiss.
marilyn		You'll never change.
mooney		Yes I will, after I shower. They both share a laugh.
marilyn		Lame ass.   Come on. She pushes herself down the hallway and he follows.
greer		Get out! As Craig reaches blindly for a door handle, Ellis opens the door and shoves him out onto the driveway. Greer yanks him up by his collar.
66.		 104                                                                     104
craig		Goddamn it, what the hell are you people going to--
craig		Jessica? Jessica races for the safety of Craig's arms, but just as she's about to be embraced, Greer steps forward and YANKS Jessica back by her hair. She squeals in pain.
jessica		No, don't hurt him! Jessica struggles and, with an annoyed shove, Greer sends her spilling into Craig. She hugs tightly against him. When Craig gets his wind back, he comes to his knees and manages to croak out--
craig		Ricky...? Jessica nods gravely. He's here, too. Craig looks at his wife's face, bruised and hurt, and tears rise in his eyes.
jessica		Who are they, Craig? Craig doesn't know what to say.
67.		 104                                                                        104
greek		Where is the disc now? Blood trickles from the corner of Craig's mouth.
craig		You have to promise. If I give it to you... you'll let my family go.
greer		I'll tell you what, you tell me where it is--  --and I won't blow her brains all over you right now. Greer traces the barrel of the gun down Jessica's cheek. Craig looks utterly helpless.
craig		Okay. Enough, you win.      But if anything-
greer		 Just shut up and talk.
68 .		 105                                                                           105
ryan		Change of plans.      I need to get to downtown fast.
greek		Get up.     We're going.
craig		How will I know she's okay?
hodges		 Move! When he gets near the door, Jessica is overcome with emotion and races to her husband.
jessica		Wait!   WAIT!! She brushes past Hodges and hugs on tight to her husband, tears flowing from her eyes. v Hodges goes to pull them apart, but Greer stops him.        He knows this is going to be their last time together.
craig		I love you. Craig squeezes the good years of their marriage into a strong, loving embrace. Jessica hugs him closer. Leans into his ear to seemingly whisper her love in return -- but what she actually whispers takes Craig by surprise.
jessica		 Pretend I'm telling you that I love you. There's an open phone line in here. You'll have help at the office, but if you give these men what they want, we're dead. Jessica kisses her husband on the lips and withdraws, leaving Craig with an utterly confused expression on his face. But before his look can betray him--
greer		Let's go. --Greer and Hodges move forward, ushering Craig out of the room. When the door locks behind them, Jessica once again rushes to the phone.
69.		 106                                                                     106
jessica		Ryan?! They're going to Fegan Securities, 4th and Figuroa.  MATCH CUT TO:  107   EXT. 10 FREEWAY - DAY                                             107 Ryan, in the cab, weaves through cars.  RYAN , it's a cellphone user's nightmare.  110   EXT. SURFACE STREETS - DAY                                        110 As Ryan huffs and puffs toward the building, he sees a BIKE MESSENGER bullshitting with a HOT DOG VENDOR. Ryan stops and stares at the PACKAGE POUCH on the seat and a flashy red BIKE HELMET hanging on the handlebars. The helmet is futuristic, like something The Flash might wear. Ryan eyes the Messenger, grabs the bike, hops on and peddles for dear life toward Craig's building with the Messenger hot on his heels.  111   EXT. FEGAN SECURITIES, INC. BUILDING                              111 As Ryan arrives at the building, the Escalade pulls up in front of him and Greer, Hodges and Ellis file into the building.
70.		Ill                                                                  111
ryan		I have an idea... Ryan fights his way through the tourists to the elevator bay. Quickly scans the DIRECTORY. Among the long list of CPAs, there's a MAILROOM on the 3rd floor.
marilyn		In five minutes, I'll need you to give me a hand.
mooney		Whenever you're ready, hon. Still wearing his holster, he shifts uncomfortably on the bed as he watches the news.
news anchor		...and authorities are now asking your help in identifying this man-- Mooney jolts upright as they display A FUZZY PHOTO OF RYAN from the Verizon surveillance cameras.
mooney		What..? Mooney watches as they continue to detail Ryan's "wild crime spree", but gets the bigger picture, realizing that every event --the Verizon store; searching for the Martin kid;
operator		Thank you for using Pacbell. This is Claire, how may I help you?
mooney		I need the phone number for a residence. Jessica Martin in Brentwood.
operator		That number is  555-8364.    For an extra seventy five cents- Mooney hangs up, dials the number. The phone rings and rings. Eventually, an answering machine picks up.
mooney		 The woman at the house didn't have an accent. Marilyn smiles, realizing he's really talking to himself. Mooney hangs up, thoughts racing. He reaches behind him, and without looking he grabs his wallet and keys. He then walks over to Marilyn and kisses the top of her head. She knows him, and knows something's up.
marilyn		You've got to be kidding-
mooney		Delay the reservation if you have to; I'll be back in twenty minutes. And Mooney's gone...
marilyn		Twenty minutes my foot.
greer		 Keep your eyes open.
mailroom supervisor		 Anything I can help you with Mr. Martin?
craig		Hey, Benny. This might sound ridiculous, but I dropped a DVD mailer into the chute this morning and I forgot to put down an address.
mailroom supervisor		Happens all the time. Let me see what's back there. Gimme a sec'. The Supervisor disappears into the back room. Greer and Hodges take a seat only a few feet away from Ryan. The moment is uncomfortable...and gets infinitely worse as--
73.		 116                                                                  116
ryan		Me?
mail clerk		You waiting for a package? Now everyone's looking at Ryan.     Including Greer.
ryan		 Sure, uh... I'm supposed to pick something up for Mr. Fountain over at the Bonaventure.
mail clerk		From what department?
ryan		I'm not sure... They said it was a contract, though, I know that, so what would that be, Legal?
mail clerk		What's the tracking number?
ryan		 Uh... Right. Tracking number. It's looking grim.   Thankfully, the Supervisor reappears.
mailroom supervisor		Mr. Martin? I found a number of things that could be what you're looking for. Mind coming back to take a look? Hodges shoots Craig a look, "go".
craig		Sure. The Supervisor leads Hodges and Craig away to the back room. Unfortunately, Greer stays behind.
ryan		 I might... Maybe it's on the clipboard on my bike? Ryan watches Greer out of the corner of his eye as Hodges and Craig disappear inside the vault.
74.		 116                                                                    116
mailroom supervisor		Help yourself. HODGES cautiously watches Craig shuffle through the mailers, opening two or three before finding -- he turns one upside down -- and a DVD case slides out! A quick glance at the label, "ADT Digital Surveillance'. 5/19/05 06:00 - 07:00" confirms it's the disc.
craig		This is it. Hodges seems uncomfortable with the Supervisor hovering over his shoulder.
hodges		Let's go.
ryan		You believe this? Everyone's got their head up their ass over there. The Mail Clerk ignores him almost as much as Greer wants to. Greer opens his cellphone to make a call, but when the signal is no good, he wanders outside the mailroom toward the window at the end of the hall.
mail clerk		 Sir? You think you could just go outside and get your clipboard? Just then, Hodges and Craig come marching out of the vault.
75.		 118                                                                     118
ryan		 Screw the package. Ryan stands and, unable to find anything better, snatches a metal HAND TRUCK sitting by the door, and as Hodges walks by--
76.		 119                                                                        119
craig		..run... But Ryan is overwhelmed.       His legs feel like a thousand pounds of jelly.
ryan		Damn! --he turns around and starts RUNNING UP instead.
hodges		The kid!!
greer		No shit.
guard		 This way! The other Guards follow...but Greer isn't convinced.       On a hunch, he turns and continues running UP also. Peeking over the edge from the floor above--
77 .		 122                                                                      122
ryan		Sees Greer and Hodges coming.     Big-ass guns out and ready. Shit.' THE ALARM BELLS SCREAM.     PEOPLE start filling the stairwell on every floor. Forcing his body to its very limits, Ryan bolts up the stairs until he sees the ROOF EXIT on the next floor up. He shoves open the nearest door and continues running up to the roof. He slips out and silently closes the door behind him just as--
greer		 Here. Cop-instincts crackling, Greer stands on one side of the tarp- covered stockpile and waits for Hodges to secure the other. This is it; they signal go at each other and spring around -- But Ryan's nowhere to be found!
78.		 125                                                                         125
jessica		You have to talk to me! Ryan, please you have to talk to me--.' The sweat from his hands causes the tiniest SLIP -- and as he catches himself, there is a soft metallic BOOOONG from the stressed metal. Unable to ignore her pleas any longer, Ryan carefully pulls the cellphone from his pocket and presses it to his ear. Desperate to console her, Ryan -- BANG!! The TARPAPER ROLL flies down the chute. Ryan looks up to see it angrily launching itself right at him! He has to let go of the walls to avoid being hit.      He presses himself to one side but -- WHAM!! The bloodthirsty roll bashes his wrist -- and he DROPS
79.		 128                                                                          128
jessica		Ryan?!    OH MY GOD, RYAN?!   RYAN--?!
80.		 131                                                                     131
jessica		Don't hurt me, and I'll do anything... Anything.. . There is a promise in what Jessica offers that Deason responds to. His fist FLASHES toward her throat, making her flinch. But rather than hitting her, he wraps his meaty fingers around her throat, almost daring her to stop him. Jessica trembles, but that is all, and just as Deason begins to enjoy his work, Jessica JABS at his face, but he predicted as much and easily moves to deflect it -- SNICKK! -- she flicks her wrist up and SLICES the underside of his upper arm. Deason flinches a little bit, like a bee sting, then laughs as he notices the tiny SHARD in her hand--
deason		 Oooh. --but that's when he HEARS it. A DRIPPING SOUND. Deason looks down at his arm and is confused to see his entire shirt sleeve SOAKED IN BLOOD. It literally pours from his arm onto the floor like a river. Deason drains white; dizzy.      He looks at Jessica, confused.
jessica		Brachial artery. Pumps up to 30 liters of blood per minute...and there's only five liters in the human body. Three seconds later, Deason crumbles...and Jessica leaves the attic.
greer		 The kid's outside, headed toward the front of the building--
hodges		-Gotta go, boss. The Guard's dead. Hodges waits by the rooftop door, looking concerned as COPS spill out around him onto the roof.
cops		Who the hell's shooting up here? Greer points to Ryan bolting around the corner.
greer		Sonofabitch shot the poor bastard right in front of us!
ricky		Mom!
jessica		Baby!   Are you okay?!
ricky		I can't get out! Jessica looks around for something to bend the bars with. There's nothing.
mooney		 Hello? L.A.P.D. Anybody home? No answer.    Drawing his gun, Mooney stalks carefully into--
83.		 139                                                                     139
mooney		Drop your gun, now.   I got you. Now we see him. Still down in the entryway, behind some cover, gun aimed and steady.
mooney		Damn it!   DAMN IT!! Angry, the adrenaline drowning out the pain, Mooney turns to the kidnapper laying in the hall, bleeding out. Kicks her gun away and kneels. But for the first time, Bayback isn't tough.   Just scared.
bayback		..a-ambulance...
mooney		Tell me where Jessica Martin is or you bleed to death right here.
bayback		..p-please..call.. I.. I'm a-- Fuck this, Mooney kicks her ribs.
84.		 140                                                                     140
bayback		...I'm a cop... Bayback squeezes her eyes shut against a wave of pain -- and DIES. Mooney stares at her. What did she say? Starts patting her down. And that's when he finds her BADGE.     L.A.P.D.   23rd Precinct. She is a cop.
mooney		Oh shit... Mooney grits his teeth against a fresh wave of pain and picks
ryan		Ho - shit! Ryan bolts to the nearest BUS STOP just as a BLUE LINE BUS pulls up.
ricky		Faster Mom! And just then--
85.		 142                                                                   142
jessica		 Get down! Get down! And Jessica DUCKS OUT OF VIEW just as the--
greer		These are the best pictures you could get of him?!
ellis		He was wearing a visor. Greer glares at him -- no shit -- and throws the pictures .
greer		Useless! The car parks and Greer storms out, followed by Ellis and Hodges. They head for the house, and the moment they enter -- Jessica reappears. But now she's STARING at something. The Escalade.
jessica		 Baby, listen to me. I want you to get away from this window. I want you to go to the other side of the room as far away from the door as you can --
ricky		No, don't leave me!     Don't leave me!! The terror in his voice breaks Jessica's heart.
jessica		Honey, I'm getting you out of there!
ricky		Where are you going?!
jessica		I'm only gonna be gone a second, and then we're gonna go home, but you have to do this first. It's gonna be loud, but don't be scared, okay? Now go find somewhere safe like I told you.
86.		 143                                                                     143
detective tomlin		What the hell, Moon? It's all over the radio.
mooney		Jack, she didn't identify herself.
detective tomlin		What are you saying?
mooney		I shot a cop!  Dana Bayback. From the 23rd.     She was one of the kidnappers. Tomlin looks stunned by the revelation.
detective tomlin		Let me call the tw9~three. See what the hell's going on. Tomlin pulls out a cellphone.
mooney		I hate to think more cops are involved, but--
detective tomlin		Did she say anything about the Martin woman?
mooney		...Never got the chance. Detective Tomlin frowns.
simon cowell		Just give me my goddamned car!
jaded cashier		Don't take that tone of voice with me, sir. I've already told you, we do not release vehicles until all impound fees are paid. In the E.G., NOTICE Ryan skulking closer, behind the GONZALEZ
simon cowell		But I didn't cause it to get impounded! Can't you understand that?! It was stolen from me!
jaded cashier		Sir, do you want the car back or not? Noticing Cowell standing at the window, Ryan presses further into the shadows, not wanting to be noticed.
simon cowell		Yes!     But I'm not paying for it! The Cashier signals a GRUNGY YARD WORKER on the other side of the fence.
jaded cashier		Nevermind, Howie. Take 'er back. Howie nods, and just as he's about to drive the Cadillac back into the yard --
simon cowell		Wait, wait! All right you bloody fascist, I'll pay. But if there's even the slightest scratch on it... Howie smiles, thought so, gets out and splits. As Cowell angrily starts making out a check, the Cashier flicks the switch to open the gate, and as it opens-- Ryan slips in. He sneaks behind the wheel of the idling Cadillac. And the moment Cowell hands over his check -- VRRRROOOM!!    Ryan burns rubber out of there.
88.		 145                                                                     145
ryan		Thank you! As he flips it open, his eyes spot THE LAPTOP on the floor of the passenger seat. Ryan thinks, pulls out his SECURITY DVD and pops it in. At first, the SCREEN is a mere wash of digital gobbledygook-- And as Ryan grunts with frustration -- --a Hi-Res QUICKTIME MOVIE suddenly fills the screen:
cut to:		151    ANGLE ONE: Ellis and Hodges finally kick open the door and 151 rush inside-- ANGLE THREE:     The COPS rush inside the building, consult the Directory... ANGLE FOUR:    Craig, panicked, reaches over to the DVD Recorder --
ryan		I'm so screwed. As Ryan speeds away from the curb, he fingers his cellphone.
greer		What?
ryan		Shut up and listen to me, asswipe. I got what you want.
ryan		You know who this is, shithead!
telemarketer		Look, sir, we can take your name off our list if you want, but you don't have to get nasty--
telemarketer		Mark.     At Mastercharge Credit Union-
91.		 158                                                                        158
greer vo		He's with you? How'd he find out?
tomlin		Said something about a kid who came into the station earlier-- Greer grimaces, putting it together.
greer		Early twenties? Stumbled out of Brian Wilson's hamper?
tomlin		Yeah.   Something like that.
greer		Tomlin. Take care of him.      No witnesses. That's more than Tomlin bargained for.
tomlin		Are you sure that's necessary, sir?
greer		You know once the shitstorm starts, there's nothing I can do to save you.
tomlin		Sure. That's what I thought.        I'll tell him.
92.		 160                                                                    160
mooney		What's the word?
tomlin		Not g9od. I.A.'s not throwing out any lifelines with all that's going on.. .  Come on. You can write a statement while I take you to the hospital.
hodges		Well?   What'd he say?
greer		You know a desk jockey named Mooney?
93.		 162                                                                     162
ellis		Get out of the car!    Get out of the goddamned car!! As they rush at her--
jessica		Come on!    COME ON!! Jessica rocks the car forward, and back. Forward, and back. And just as it finally comes loose -- KRRRAAASHHH!! The window next to Jessica's head EXPLODES in a shower of tempered glass, shocking us. Two arms snake in and wrap around Jessica's neck. Greer. But Jessica STOMPS ON THE GAS, hoping the big car will pull her free. It doesn't. As the Escalade surges away across the lawn, Greer's vice-like grip holds, PULLING JESSICA OUT the broken window and -- THUMP! -- to the guest house debris below. As Jessica watches in horror:
greer		Balls his fist in Jessica's hair and yanks her around hard.
94.		 163                                                                    163
jessica		Nobody!
ricky		Stop it!   Don't hurt her!! Seething mad, Greer rips his gun from its holster and is literally about to blow Jessica's brains out when--
greer		Bad timing, Tomlin. But it isn't Tomlin on the phone this time.       It's--
greer		The mysterious bike messenger.   How did you get this number? In the Cadillac, PUSH IN on Ryan t9 show the CELLPHONE MANUAL he picked up at the Verizon store in his hand.
ryan		Gotta love modern technology... My new phone knows the numbers of the last fifty incoming calls.
greer		What do you want?
ryan		Just the woman and her kid.
greer		Who are you? What's your name?
95.		 164                                                                 164
ryan		My name is F you. I've got your shit, pal, it doesn't work that way.
greek		Really?  Go cut the kid's throat. Though Ryan's eyes widen in panic, his voice remains cool.
ryan		Fine.     Your loss.   Nice talking to you. And Ryan hangs up. He waits nervously, sweating, staring at the phone for the longest seconds of his life--
greer		So, how do you want to do this?
ryan		Put on a big ass Ronald McDonald smile, apologize to the kid and the woman and bring 'em to the Santa Monica pier.
ryan		Dude, you're lucky I'm still talkin' to your sorry ass. You do as I say, exactly as I say, or I hang up now and slap this bitch on Nightline, you know what I'm sayin'? There's a long beat.
ryan		Done.
ryan		You let me worry about that. What's your cell number?
96.		 164                                                                      164
ryan		I can hardly wait. Ryan hangs up.    A scared, but satisfied smile...
mooney		 Shouldn't we be on Pico? To the right, some PEOPLE wait for a bus.      Tomlin turns left.
tomlin		County will have a six hour wait. Ten if they know you're a cop. Mooney grunts his gratitude as Tomlin heads toward a wasteland of warehouses. And just as any potential witnesses vanish from sight -- Tomlin's cellphone RINGS!      He lowers the gun and answers the call.
tomlin		Not yet.
tomlin		 I'm on it. Tomlin flips his phone closed and turns the car around.
97 .		 165                                                                   165
mooney		Let's solve the goddamn thing.
ryan		You like it?  Happy Birthday. THUD. The Friends' jaws hit the ground. And as they run to the Cadillac XLR, Ryan disappears into the crowd...
hodges		I'm in position.
98.		 170                                                                     170
greek		Copy.
greer		Only take the kid out if it's clean. No guess work. The last thing we need's a stampede. Greer paces anxiously -- when suddenly his Nextel RINGS.     He answers it, though it's hard to hear over the music.
greer		How do you want to do this?
greer		Do you have the disc?
greer		See the black van at the bottom of the bridge? Passenger side window.
greer		He's within visual of the car. Greer takes his police walkie and toggles it.
99.		 172                                                                  172
greer		He's around the passenger side. Have you found him yet?
greer		He's the one on the cellphone, you idiot 1
greer		Your turn.    Now you show me something.
greer		That wasn't part of the deal.
ryan		Like you swore to protect and serve? The reference brings Greer up short.       There's a moment, then:
greer		You know a lot...
ryan		And I'll forget a lot, too. But not until they're both out of danger. Now PAN AROUND TO REVEAL Ryan among the crowd, wearing a SURFING WINDBREAKER; HOODED with WATERPROOF POCKETS -- but where's his cellphone? Moving closer, we see Ryan's wearing the EARBUD MIKE from the Verizon store. With the earbud concealed under the loose hood, Ryan looks like anyone else just watching the show.
101.		 178                                                                     178
greek		You sure you know what you're doing?
ryan		One...     Two... On the other end of the phone:
ryan		Three...    Four... --but Ryan's got him by the balls.     Angrily, Greer lifts his walkie.
greer		Okay! Okay.  Hodges, put 'em on the Ferris wheel.
greer		Shut up and do it!
ryan		Not bad. Most people never get past two. Greer flinches as his own taunts are used against him.
greer		 Keep an eye on them. As soon as we make the trade, take the woman and her kid out.
ryan		Oooh, I think I just pissed myself. Ryan looks optimistic when Hodges gets out and opens the back door. And just as he's on the brink of success--
102.		 180                                                                      180
chloe		There you are! Where the hell were you! ?
ryan		Chloe!    Get away from here!
chloe		Know how many hours I waited for you to bring back those stupid shirts?! What'd you do? Sell them on the Prominade yourself--? But Ryan's got no time for this.
mooney		 That's him! There he is!
ryan		It isn't safe to talk, get it? I -- People are after me!
chloe		 What -- are you high? Suddenly, Mooney steps up beside Ryan and grabs him.
mooney		 I've been..looking for..you, kid-- But Ryan struggles, thinking Mooney is with the bad guys. Mooney grabs him as he tries to make a break for it.
ryan		Let go of me! Sonofabitch, let go!
103.		 183                                                                     183
mooney		 Jesus, kid, calm down!! Trying to break Mooney's stronghold, Ryan SHOVES him backwards, SLAMMING his injured shoulder into the PIER
chloe		Oh my God--  Someone call 911! A CROWD starts to gather when -- Ryan feels the barrel of a gun nudging his back.     Tomlin's gun.
tomlin		It's over kid. Fuck! Ryan's got no choice but to slowly walk toward the end of the pier. MOONEY - From his prone position, he catches a glimpse of Tomlin backing Ryan quietly into the crowd. Not trying to help. Not calling for an ambulance. In that instant, Mooney knows he's been betrayed. Tomlin's in on this.
104.		 185                                                                     185
ryan		Aw shit... Ryan's world is spinning -- the NOISE, the CROWDS, the
greer		Under the pier. Go! Go!
105.		 187                                                                     187
ryan		 Think! Think!
chloe		You better lie still. The paramedics should be here shortly. But Mooney's obstinate.   He rises despite her best efforts.
106.		 193                                                                     193
mooney		Just keep that ambulance close by. And as he stumbles off--
tomlin		You're wounded kid, just give me what I came for, and I'll let you all go. Police sirens in the distance grow louder. Tomlin's offer goes unanswered.    That's when he notices the BLOOD on the ground. Tomlin smiles, following Ryan's trail to a PILE OF BLOOD-SMEARED TARPS -- where the trail ends! It's obvious Ryan used these to staunch his wound. Shit! He's gonna have to search this whole place-- Then, suddenly, Tomlin gets an idea. He pulls out his phone, making sure it's concealed from view, and writes a TEXT MESSAGE to-- x95   EXT. SANTA MONICA PIER - NIGHT                                     195 Greer pulls out his ringing cell phone. On the text screen it says, "CALL HIM". Greer flashes an wicked grin, and dials the last number on his call log.
tomlin		Shoulda stayed at home this morning, kid. And just then, Tomlin throws off the shredded tarp exposing-- Ryan's cellphone.   And nothing else.
107 .		 196                                                                   196
tomlin		What the-- And in the instant Tomlin realizes he's been tricked, he turns and--
hodges		Tomlin? Anyone copy? Jessica, cuffed from behind, covertly wriggles the handcuffs under her ass toward her feet. Ricky, terrified, screams "no" with his eyes. But she knows she's out of time.
ellis		Got him.   He's in the parking lot.
108.		 201                                                                     201
jessica		Ricky run!    Find help! Ricky's paralyzed with fear.
10 9.		 205                                                                      205
mooney		""Freeze! Drop your weapon! Ellis quickly swings his rifle and-- BAM! Mooney shoots Ellis in the head, causing him to slide off the carousel roof.
greek		No more bullshit!     Just give me the goddamn disc! Ryan slowly unzips his front jacket pocket and removes the
jessica		Tell me why I shouldn't kill you. For the first time, Greer actually looks frightened. Recognizing the homicidal look in her eyes, he SPUTTERS, but nothing comes out. Ryan, weak and pale with blood loss, looks up at his guardian angel.
ryan		Jess... Jessica?     Don't. Jessica trembles with rage, a tear falls.
jessica		I... I have to.
110.		 206                                                                      206
jessica		Thank you for keeping your promise. As the cops move in and drag Greer to his feet, Ryan calls out to him.
ryan		Hey man, your shitty day is about to get a whole lot shittier. Ryan flips open his phone and on the SCREEN plays the SECURITY FOOTAGE of the murder in the parking lot. We see that Ryan must've copied the DVD with his videophone.
news anchor		...The Santa Monica Pier was the latest setting in the ongoing 23rd Precinct corruption scandal. Ryan Ackerman, a local resident, risked his life to save a family kidnapped by officers to cover up... Chloe strokes Ryan's scalp with her fingers.
111.		 207                                                                   207
chloe		"""How does it feel to be a hero?
ryan		 It hurts... But you're making it way better. I'm just glad it's over.
chloe		 Modesty can be sexy.
ryan		And to think this was our first date.
chloe		Next time, skip the shower. In the background, Jessica and Ricky exit a hospital room and join the two lovebirds.
jessica		Craig's very weak, but the doctors say it looks promising. He's probably going to have to walk with a cane, but that's the worst of it... I'm just thankful. Chloe senses that Jessica and Ryan might need a moment alone.
chloe		Come on Ricky, let's get a hot chocolate. A small smile forms on Ricky's exhausted face. Chloe leads Ricky down the hall.
jessica		I can't believe I almost lost everything that means... I don't know how I can ever thank you.
ryan		I do.  Don't ever call me again. A shared laugh, then as they turn to the television--
****Dialogues from script :Change-Up.txt****

dave		Sorry Hank.
dave		Please, sweetheart, not my-- Honey, Daddy needs those--
dave		Take me with you Magnum P. I... Before long Dave is CRYING like a schoolgirl.
dave		Aren't they? Yes. Always.  Good morning, Rebecca.
dave		All but signed.
dave		Thank you, sir.
dave		No sir, absolutely not. So sorry. Dave quickly undoes his tie as Flemming turns down a hallway. SABRINA McARDLE, cute young paralegal, falls into step with Dave, stymieing laughter.
sabrina mcardle		Really? The dog track?
dave		Last week he told me my shoes were "dangerously Italian."
sabrina mcardle		 Amalgamated signing statements.
dave		Thanks, Sabrina.
sabrina mcardle		Have a good one... She smiles and breezes back down the hallway. Dave stops and watches her go, lust in his eyes.
gladys		For shame, Mr. Lockwood! For shame! You are a married man!
dave		I have no idea what you're talking about, Gladys... Reddening, he snatches a huge pile of pink message slips and hurries towards his office. She follows him, scolding:
gladys		With children.
dave		Yes, thank you, I almost forgot about them for like two seconds...
gladys		The only thing that harlot needs to put in her mouth is a sandwich.
dave		Gladys, I'm a grown man, okay? He angrily punches "SPEAKER" on his RINGING phone as he reties his tie with a more traditional knot.
dave		Jesus, Mitch, I'm at work--
dave		Dude, how stoned are you?
mitch		I'm pretty stoned.
dave		Come on, it's 10 in the morning.
mitch		Dude, guess what? Great news.
dave		What?
mitch		I found a futon on the street.
dave		That is great news.
mitch		I sort of had to fight a bum for it -- is that bad?
dave		Kind of. Is there a reason you're calling or--?
mitch		Are you gonna bitch out on tonight? You are, aren't you. Dave, half-listening, sits at his desk and answers emails.
dave		Dude, I'm coming--
mitch		You always do this! You never make time for your friends anymore and I'm sorry to be the one to tell you this, but people are starting to talk. Feelings are getting hurt.
dave		Really? Whose feelings?
mitch		Not mine, because, like a samurai, I have trained myself to feel nothing except revenge and honor, but other people -- nameless, other, more sensitive people -- are hurt, and they think you need to treasure your friendships a little bit more.  How concerned should I be that my new futon smells like death?
dave		 Look, just, what time are you picking me up tonight?
mitch		If you bail I will rape you.
dave		Dude, I get it, I'm coming--
mitch		In your eye. I will eye-rape you.
mitch		Shit. Mitch starts waving away the pot smoke.
mitch		Oh thanks, I always forget. They hug, and Mitch takes the mail and, without looking at it, chucks it onto a HUGE PILE OF OLD MAIL in the corner.
mitch		No! Honestly, it's my new futon, it smells like illegal drugs.
mitch		You got it, Dad.
mitch		Which one? "Give Gonorrhea The Boot" or "Samir's Pet Shack Our Low Low Prices Are Snake-sational?"
mitch		Actually, the real shame is that Samir paid me in fucking organic bird seed, but whatever... He glares at several crates of BIRD SEED by the door.
mitch		I'm a little tight, actually, Pops. Especially vis a vis, you know, the whole bird seed situation.
mitch		Can you make it a grand? Mitch's dad smiles to hide his disappointment and hands his 30-year-old son a roll of hundred dollar bills.
mitch		Yeeeah...I'm not really sure I'm a "work" guy, you know what I mean? Plus, I've been getting a ton of auditions recently, so...
mitch		Thanks, pop. Bones. Mitch, Sr. smiles and awkwardly bumps his son's fist.
cara		Daddy daddy, which is your favorite butterfly, the Southern Monarch or the Many-Spotted Skipperling? Dave glances at the book as he washes the twins.
dave		Oh, I'm a Many-Spotted Skipperling man all the way. The Southern Monarch is just a glorified moth.
jamie		What a day. Dr. Klein lost the twins immunization record, the wireless went down, and Cara got bullied in ballet class again.
cara		Nicolette Peters keeps knocking me over during the battement glisse.
dave		Oh, I'm sorry, sugar-bug... Dave looks genuinely concerned. Cara just shrugs and keeps reading her butterfly book. Jamie whispers to him:
jamie		We need to remind her to keep striving for verbal resolution.
dave		Right, of course. Jamie finally notices Dave's foam-covered face, and softens.
jamie		And how was your day, monster man? Before Dave can answer, the doorbell rings, DING-DONG! They exchange the weary smile of parents who never see each other.
dave		Of course he's early. All he does all day is eat hummus and masturbate.
mitch		Whatup bitches!
mitch		How's my favorite ballerina?!
cara		I'm good! Are you coming to my recital on Thursday?!
mitch		Oh no, honey, the only style of dancing I support is exotic... He plunks her on the floor and blows into
mitch		Jesus Christ you could feed Africa with this fridge... As Jamie starts prepping a salad across the kitchen, Mitch raids the fridge, packing his cargo pants with kid's snacks, bagels, yogurts, juice boxes, everything.
jamie		Oh no, hon, those are super old-- Too late -- Mitch is already eating the very old steak.
mitch		Chimichurri. score. As Mitch chews, he eyes Jamie chopping vegetables.
jamie		Thanks... sort of...?
mitch		No really. I never would've guessed twins.
jamie		Annnd that's probably enough--
mitch		Is Dave still meeting your needs sexually? Jamie just laughs, shaking her head, unbelievable.
jamie		Our old kindergarten teacher?!
mitch		Yeah. She always liked Dave better than me...
jamie		Honey, everyone likes Dave better than you.
mitch		Fair enough. Anyway, I tried to get her number, but she goes "I don't date former students," so I go, "great, do you fuck former students?" and then she calls me a "potty-mouth degenerate" and runs out without her coffee. So I got a free venti macchiato, which is cool-
mitch		Awww! Come to Uncle Mitch... Dave hands the twins to Mitch, and they COO, impishly cute.
mitch		Really? The one on the left looks a little downsy.
dave		I'll be back right after the game, okay, Pumpkin?
jamie		Whenever. Have fun.
mitch		See you, Jame!
jamie		Always a pleasure, Mitch. Mitch steals THREE PEARS and some TULIPS as he exits...
dave		Yeah, I'm good.
mitch		Really? You're going to make me drink alone?
dave		Yeah, well, you're driving, so... Mitch shrugs and slides the spare beer into his chest pocket.
mitch		Oh, dude: great news.
dave		You found another futon?
mitch		That's awesome, because I'm made of emotional Teflon and words can't hurt me anymore. No: I auditioned for a major movie role yesterday.
dave		Nice. What movie?
mitch		It's called Busted Dreams 4. It's about a renegade coroner who reads minds named Jake Action. It's like a sexy Mentalist.
dave		Sounds cool.
mitch		Yeah, I read for the part of Steve Action, Jake's troubled younger brother with a secret, and I fucking killed it. I cried like five times during the audition and it's a fucking action movie. Plus I'm the spitting image of the dude who plays Jake Action, so...
dave		I hope you get it, man.
mitch		Yeah, it could be my Raging Bull. Plus I'd get to kill a lot of women, which is cool.  Hotbox?
dave		No, man, I got a big day tomorrow, I can't get wasted tonight.
mitch		Change-up -- fuck he's good!
dave		He's no Fernando.
mitch		Of course not. Fernando is like The Highlander. There can be only one.
dave		OH! So finish your story! The girl calls you up...?
mitch		Right! So she calls me up, it's like 3 in the morning--
dave		What's her name?
mitch		Tatiana.
dave		Incredible. What's her last name? Mitch just looks at him.
mitch		Tatiana Calls-Me-At-3-In-The- Morning-And-Wants-To-Fuck-stein, what the fuck, who cares?
dave		Is she hot? She is, right? Oh my God I already have a boner!
dave		NO! Keep going! I need these stories, man! They're all I have. Mitch registers the desperation in his married friend's eyes.
mitch		Okay, well, you're in luck, because Tatiana is stupid fucking hot. Beautiful face, legs a mile long, perfect ass, blonde hair, and huuuge boobs.
dave		Oh my God how big?
mitch		Double E.
dave		Oh my God she sounds like Sabrina.
mitch		Who's Sabrina?
dave		This hot paralegal in my office.
mitch		Is she on your Cancer List?
dave		What's a Cancer List?
mitch		Don't all married dudes have a Cancer List? No? Like the first three chicks you would bang if your wife suddenly died of cancer?
dave		That's sick, man. Jamie is the mother of my children...
mitch		Who's number two? Fergie--?
dave		Just finish your story, man! I'm dying over here!
mitch		Fine. So Tatiana's packing double E's, which means like 20 plus pounds of breastmeat -- yeah, it's almost too much for one man to handle. Thank God I'm the son of a butcher and have strong hands and wrists. Anyway, she walks in wearing this tight black dress, and you know what she says to me? Dave shakes his head, on the edge of his bar stool.
dave		I don't even know what those are!
mitch		No one does! It gets so intense that my nose starts bleeding. Yeah, so I'm bleeding all over this chick and she's fucking digging it.
dave		That is maybe the single greatest story I've ever heard in my life.
mitch		Ah, it's not always like that...
dave		I don't know why...I don't know why I've always been in such a rush, you know?
dave		You remember me in high school, I was always so focussed on getting into a good college, then when I got to college, I was so focussed on getting into a good law school, then in law school I was just trying to land a job at a good firm, then Jamie and I got married and we had Cara right away-- I just feel like and I missed out on all the fun stuff, you know? The sex, the drugs, the bad choices, and now it's too late. I blew it. I pissed away my 20's, and now I'm staring down the barrel a seriously boring life.
mitch		Oh come on, Jamie is hot!
dave		No, I know--
mitch		I really want to have sex with her!
dave		Wait, what?
mitch		And your kids are adorable! They're like fun little puppies that talk! The bill comes. Dave pulls out a wad of cash, throws it on the table, and stumbles for the door. Mitch lifts one of Dave's twenties off the table and follows him out...
dave		Don't get me wrong, I love my kids, I do, I would take a bullet for them, but...remember that heroin addict you dated?
mitch		Tara? Or Rena? Or Rachel?
dave		Jesus, how many heroin addicts have you dated?
mitch		It's a national scourge, dude.
dave		Anyway. Having kids is like dating a heroin addict, only instead of dating them, they move into your house for 18 years. They're laughing one second and crying the next and then they're trying to kill themselves in your bathroom for no reason. They're mean and selfish and they burn through all your money and they steal your shit and they break everything and they stay up all night and they listen to really shitty music and the dirty secret is, no one actually likes kids.
mitch		Oh come on, you don't mean that--
dave		No! It's true. Everyone pretends to like kids because if you don't you look like a huge dick. It's like Drew Barrymore or jazz. No one actually likes them, but if you say that out loud, everybody hates you.
mitch		Dude, I love Drew Barrymore -- have you seen Boys on the Side? They weave across a LARGE PLAZA, stumbling for Mitch's car.
dave		I'm just saying: don't fuck up your life like I did, okay?
mitch		What are you talking about? You've got it all! You've got a huge house full of food and furniture -- shit, your TV is bigger than my car! You have a great job, you make a shit- ton of money, and people respect you, man! My last job involved an ape costume -- do you know what that does to a man? Dave waves him off, not really hearing him. But Mitch is sincere, heartfelt:
dave		Wait, what--?
mitch		Also you're never lonely, you always have someone to talk to about your day, plus you get to do all the fun gay couple stuff like go to wine country! You think single guys can go to wine country?! No way! They won't even let us in! You're living the dream, dude! What more do you want?!
dave		Tatiana! I want Tatiana! I want sex with strange new women and maybe also with Sabrina if she's single and I want to wake up at noon and smoke weed all afternoon and I want to not think about the needs of four other people 24 hours a day and I want to start reading a novel and actually finish it and I want to take a solid shit because I'm not constantly stressed out and I want to learn how to rollerblade and also I really want to pee...
mitch		Yeah, me too... They look around the plaza, and their eyes land on the HUGE FOUNTAIN in the middle; a GREEK GODDESS sits atop it.
dave		Bingo. They stumble over to the fountain, unzip their pants, and, leaning on each other, begin peeing into it. Mitch glances up at the GREEK GODDESS METIS. She scowls down at them.
mitch		This chick does not look happy.
dave		Maybe she has three kids and a job she hates.
mitch		Dude, enough already.
dave		I'm just saying...I envy your life.
mitch		And that's what's so fucked, because I envy yours.
dave		Yeah you don't--
mitch		I do!
dave		No, I do--!
mitch dave		I wish I had your life! I wish I had your life! They're about to say "jinx" when--
mitch		Ummmmm...? Then all the lights in the city flicker back to life...
dave		R-Rolling blackout?
mitch		I guess...? They continue peeing, a little freaked out.
dave		You really have nice flow by the way. Very thick and confident.
mitch		Thank you. Yours is very steamy.
dave		Thank you. My urologist says I run a little warm. Eventually they both finish, tuck in, and zip up. Beat.
mitch		Now I am.
mitch		Whose fucking baby is that...? A hand emerges and fumbles on the night stand.
jamie		What? What's your problem? Mitch shields his eyes with his hands, shocked and disgusted.
mitch		Oh my god that is so gross! Put your tits away! This isn't Europe!
jamie		What are you talking about? Mitch finally notices he's in DAVE'S BEDROOM...
mitch		Wait: why am I in...? Did I sleep here last night?!
jamie		Um, yeah?
mitch		Did we...?! Panicked, he thrusts his fist like, have sex?!
jamie		Are you insane?
mitch		So why the hell did I wake up in your bed?!
jamie		Are you still drunk?
mitch		Look, just, where's Dave?!
jamie		What?
mitch		Where's fucking Dave?!
jamie		Dave is right here! You're Dave! He turns and sees himself in the mirror. Freezes. He is Dave.
mitch		Oh my God... Oh my God... He slowly touches his new face...
dave		Mitch...?
dave		Why am I in your sad apartment--
dave		Fine, Jesus, relax-- Dave opens the door to see himself standing there.
mitch		I knew it!
mitch		I know, dude.
dave		I'm a fucking loser...
mitch		Wait, what? Dave spins, completely awake now:
dave		How the fuck did this happen?!
mitch		How should I know?! Has this ever happened to you before?!
dave		What, switching bodies with another human being?! Oh yeah, this shit happens to me like twice a week!
mitch		Well...I don't want to be you!
dave		Oh, you don't want to be me?! No, no, no: I don't want to be you!
mitch		What's that supposed to mean?!
dave		Look, let's just.. .think. How could this have possibly happened...? They pace about the apartment, trying to think... Then:
mitch		Bingo. Got it. We're dreaming. Dave grabs Mitch's nipple and twists it hard.
dave		Not dreaming.
mitch		First of all, you're a penis. Second of all--
dave		Wait, what'd you just say?
mitch		I called you a penis and--
dave		 Come on!
dave		Remember last night when we peed into that fountain?! As we peed, we wished we had each other's lives!
dave		Our wishes must've... somehow... come true.
mitch		I thought wishes came true when you threw a coin into a fountain...
dave		Well apparently urine works too.
mitch		That's bullshit! I would've wished for something way cooler!
mitch		What are we gonna do when we get to the fountain?!
dave		We're gonna hug each other and pee into the fountain and wish our lives back!
mitch		That might sound really gay! Both men race around the corner onto the plaza and stop cold:
mitch		Excuse me! Where is the fountain?!
foreman		It's getting restored.
dave		Where did you take it?!
foreman		I don't know, chief, I'm not the fountain spokesman, I'm just the guy that fills the fucking hole.
dave		Who could tell us where it is?!
foreman		Maybe the district manager?
mitch		Well of course it's not--!
dave		When will it be in the computer?!
dave		Tomorrow?! We can't wait until tomorrow, Carla!
mitch		How can you lose a fountain?.
dave		We'll call you tomorrow! Thank you!
mitch		This is so fucked...
dave		We should just go home and lock the
mitch		I don't talk like that, dude--
dave		Okay ...Okay...Great...Thank you.
mitch		Who was that?
dave		Marty Green, the producer of Busted Dreams 4. Apparently the guy they cast for Steve Action OD'd last night, and the back-up actor got deported, so, alphabetically, you're the next actor on the list. You got the part, man. Mitch covers his mouth like he just won American Idol.
mitch		Oh my God! Oh my God! Dreams really do come true--!
dave		 Oh my God: and I've got my closing today.
mitch		What, is that like a big deal?
dave		A big--?! Yeah! Whether or not I make partner is riding on this!
mitch		So what the hell are we gonna do? PANICKED SILENCE. Then Mitch looks at Dave...
dave		No. No. We can't just be each other for a day, Mitch! You have no idea how to be a lawyer!
mitch		Dude, I'm an actor, a human chameleon, I can do lawyer in my fucking sleep! It's you I'm worried about: you can't act for shit!
dave		First of all, it's Busted Dreams 4, okay? It's not The Reader. Second of all, I'm a WASP, I've spent my entire life acting happy and no one has ever questioned my performance, okay?! They look at each other, cooling off a bit...
mitch		I mean, we have to...right? Both men look highly anxious. Dave glances at the time.
dave		All right, well, my meeting starts in 45 minutes. You need to race home, get dressed, then go to my office and find my secretary Gladys-
mitch		She sounds hot, is she hot?
dave		No. Get the merger docs from Gladys and take them to the conference room. All the partners will be there so do not speak to anyone.
mitch		Really? Because I can vamp--
dave		NO! No vamping! And once the meeting starts, you will continue to say nothing. When a partner asks you for the merger documents, you will silently hand them over, okay?
mitch		Dude, I get it. Play it big, but maintain my reality--
dave		No! Play it small. Really small. I've spent the last nine months banging out the terms of this deal, all you have to do is hand over the documents. That's it.
mitch		Dude, that's easy as fuck. Okay, for me, go home, put on some cool clothes, and get to set -- all the info is on my phone. Once you're there, go to Hair & Makeup and memorize your lines and try not to be a total douche to everyone, okay? This is the film industry. Everyone is really cool. They look at each other, very doubtful that this will work...
dave		I'm trusting you, too...
mitch		Power hug. They hug tight then release.
dave		Oh hey, you also need to pick up Cara from ballet at 4, okay?
mitch		 I'm so fucking all over that shit. Off of Dave's deeply unsettled look, we
gladys		What in God's name are you wearing?
mitch		Holy dick, are you Gladys? You're a lynx.
gladys		W-What is a lynx?
mitch		A white-haired cougar. You really should dress sexier, though. The whole angry prison nurse thing is a huge mistake. Gladys GASPS and jams some documents into his hands.
gladys		Here are your merger documents! Good day to you! She storms off. Mitch calls after her:
mitch		Hey, where's my meeting at? She angrily points at a conference room as she stalks off.
mitch enters		in his ridiculous outfit. The room goes silent, but Mitch's confidence remains sky-high:
mitch		What up, white people?! Republican Party in the house, am I right?! Come on, let's get started!
mitch		Fuck yeah! Amalgamated Industries! Finally, even Flemming claps as well, uncomfortable.
mitch		Right, my bad-- Thinking that's his cue, he slides Flemming the documents.
mitch		Okay?
mitch		G-Good?
mitch		Bad? Bad! They're fucking terrible.
mitch		Look, everything's cool, let's just sign this fucking thing and go party! We're all rich, who cares?! Mr. Kinkabe angrily jabs his finger at the incredibly short CEO of Amalgamated Industries, TED NORTON, 60's.
mitch		Relax, dude ... this-this is all part of my master plan.
mitch		Yes! Check it out: if we drag this out...we make more money, right? Don't we? Of course we do! And then we can bill the fuck out of them! Some of them don't even speak-ah the engrish so goo, you know what I'm saying?
mitch		Yes...? Is it...? It's not a very good plan, is it.
mitch		Fuck that, ese. I'm straight up gangster all the way through. Flemming eyes him, determining his fate. Mitch can't breathe.
dave		Yo, Mitch Planko is here. Where the fuck is Hair & Makeup?
dave		That's so real. Dave stiffly walks off as the P.A. eyes him, weirded out.
dave		No thanks. Hey, what does it mean when it says T.S., or B.T.S.?
dave		Wait! W-what kind of movie is this?!
dave		I-I'm not familiar with that genre.
dave		Oh no. They arrive in
valtan		More oil! Make him shiny like fish!
dave		Excuse me, are you in charge here? I think there's been some sort of
valtan		Mona! Where Mona?! And then MONA -- aging actress with fake boobs -- teeters in wearing a flimsy nightgown and six inch heels.
mona		I'm here!
valtan		Okay guys, here scene: Mitch, you enter with gun -- where gun?! A P.A. runs in with a huge MACHINE GUN WITH ROCKET LAUNCHER ATTACHMENT and gives it to Dave, who takes it limply...
mona		What's my motivation?
valtan		Your motivation? Your motivation is show big tit to business traveler in hotel room too scared to order real porno, okay?  Okay, here shot list: start makeout here, nightgown fall, close-up of titty, candles burning, bouncing titty close-up, moaning, fake sex- in-mouth obscured by hair, more candle, fake backdoor sex obscured by blowing curtain, more candle, her buttock, his buttock, wind blow out candle and finito, okay?
mona		It's like a poem.
valtan		I know, baby, I crush this shit big time. Let's lock it up!
mona		You wanna bump? Mona snorts a fingernail of coke into her nose.
dave		A bump--? Of drugs?
mona		You're cute. But if you try to actually fuck me I'll set your dick on fire with one of these fucking candles, y'understand me?
dave		Is this actually happening?
mona		Pound away on my upper thigh all you want, that's what it's there for, okay? And no, you can't pay me to give you a real BJ, I don't do that shit anymore. Dave's mouth opens, but nothing comes out. A P.A. guides him out of the room. He's still in a trance...
blowdried goon		I said: No entry!
dave		If you let me don't in...don't let me in...If you don't let me in, Paco, I will fuck you dead. That doesn't sound right. If you don't let me Taco-- is his name Paco or Taco? Your penmanship is illegible--
valtan		Fuck it, we fix in post! Just knock out guard, wake up girl, and make fuck time! Keep rolling!
dave		Oh my goodness it is Lola my long lost lover Lola who...I love. Her.
valtan		More sexy! Too stiff! Annnd Mona wake up, surprised! Mona, not much of a better actor than Dave, wakes up -- and SCREAMS deafeningly, like some 1950's horror queen.
mona		Steve Action?! You perfect bastard!
valtan		And now kiss her like savage! Dave, totally grossed out by her, very reluctantly leans in for the kiss. Just before their lips meet, he pulls away.
dave		I'm sorry! I can't!
dave		Look, I can't, I'm married.
valtan		No no no, Steve Action throw wife off cliff in last scene.
dave		No, I mean, me, in real life. I'm married.
valtan		So am I! Mona my wife! Yeah, how stupid is that shit, man?! Now go fake-fuck my wife before owners of house come back from ski vacation to find film crew in master bedroom! Dave just stands there, hopelessly out of place...
ballet teacher		Oh Cara, do try to stay on your toes! Let's start again... In the audience, Mitch straightens: what was that...?
cara		Shouldn't I be sitting in my carseat?
mitch		Whatever, you're fine -- hey, what's up with that little blonde bitch who knocked you over? She looks a little surprised by her dad's language.
cara		That's Nicolette Peters. She does that a lot, actually...
mitch		So why don't you fight back?
cara		Um, because you told me not to? You said I should strive for verbal resolution.
mitch		Fuck verbal resolution! Put that whore on her back and shank her! Do you know how to make a shiv?
cara		What? Mitch lights a cigarette with the car lighter.
mitch		Listen to me, kid: the world is a cesspool of cruelty and violence. If someone comes at you with a knife, you gotta put their entire fucking family in the morgue, okay? That's called jailyard justice. Because if you don't come back hard on a bitch, your ass is gonna get sold for a pack of Camel Lights and a jello cup, y'understand? Always solve your problems with violence. Always. Cara nods, alarmed.
cara		O-Okay Daddy...?
dave		I dry-humped a stranger's leg for three hours today... Sitting opposite him, Mitch downs a shot, exhausted.
mitch		Cry me a river, dude: I dealt with ballet and your ass-hat boss today.
dave		Oh no -- what happened at work?
mitch		Nothing! Nothing.  Okay, but look, it was not my fault! The Japs started peppering me with questions and I had to improvise and then everyone got very emotional and, well... it looks like we're going to court.
dave		Oh my God tell me you're kidding.
mitch		Yeah, your boss was pretty miffed, but then I told him this was all part of my master plan to make more money off our clients--
dave		What. 1
mitch		Yeah, turns out that's totally illegal, but the old man was surprisingly cool about it. Dave sits there, speechless. Mitch eats wings.
mitch		What are you gonna tell Jamie?
dave		The truth.
mitch		Can I highly recommend against that?
dave		Hey, sugar-bug. .but she passes right by him and hugs Mitch.
cara		Hi Daddy! Dave stammers, stung. Mitch hugs her, acting stiff like Dave.
mitch		Well hello, my precocious daughter!
dave		Okay, I don't sound like that-- Just then Jamie hurries past, the twins in her arms, and kisses Mitch on the lips. Both men startle a bit.
jamie		Hey.
dave		This is so weird.
mitch		No shit.
jamie		You staying for dinner? Silence. Then Mitch nudges Dave.
dave		Right -- no, thank you. I'm-- Look, Jamie, we really need to talk.
jamie		Okay, but make it quick, I've got to put the twins to bed.
dave		I. .um...I'm not Mitch.
mitch		I'm Mitch. Somehow.. .we switched bodies last night. He's Dave. Jamie looks back and forth between them, expressionless.
dave		Then the city moved the fountain--
mitch		But as soon as they find it, we're going to switch back.
jamie		Great! Sounds like a plan.
mitch		Are you kidding? Is she kidding? Clearly yes. Jamie heads for the stairs when Dave stops her.
dave		Baby, please don't--
jamie		Okay, Mitch, first of all, don't call me baby, it's creepy. Second of all... what the hell are you talking about?.
dave		Look, I can prove it's true! Just, I don't know, just ask me anything that only I -- that only Dave -- would know. Anything.
jamie		When's our wedding anniversary? Dave freezes, oh shit.
dave		Spring?
jamie		Spring?
mitch		Dude, it's March 24th, even I know that.
dave		Why do you know that?
mitch		So that I can send you a thoughtful card -- what kind of monster are you?
dave		Look, just ask me anything else.
jamie		I really don't have time to--
mitch		Jamie, please.
jamie		What's my favorite color?
dave		You have a favorite color?
mitch		Mauve.
dave		Dude: do you not understand what we're trying to accomplish here?!
mitch		I'm just saying, look at all the accents in this room -- she loves mauve.
dave		Baby -- Jamie -- ask me anything else, something more personal...
jamie		Fine, what did we talk about two nights ago...? I was crying...?
dave		 Yourrrrr mother maybe?
jamie		That's great, Mitch. Thanks a big bunch. Come on, honey. Jamie steams upstairs, pissed, with Cara in tow. Dave runs his hands through his hair, fuck! Mitch looks appalled:
mitch		Dude, you are like the worst husband ever.
dave		I have a lot on my plate right now, man! You have no idea!
mitch		Okay, look, calm down: I can hold down the fort for one night.
dave		Are you joking? You worked at my job for one day and you almost got arrested! What are you gonna do to my family?!
mitch		Dude, the kids are already going to bed.
dave		What do you tell Jamie.. .when?
mitch		When she wants to have sex tonight.
dave		But it's Tuesday.
mitch		I don't understand. You don't have sex on Tuesdays? A beat. Then Dave starts LAUGHING. It builds. Dave hasn't laughed this hard in a long time. He pats Mitch's cheek.
dave		That's adorable. Dave turns and exits the house, still LAUGHING...
mitch		Really?! You want me to bang your wife??
dave		Sure, have at it! Let me know how it goes...
dave		Jesus, it's like a Swedish asylum--
dave		Tatiana?! Hi! How, um, how are you?
dave		Oh my God. Oh my God. He quickly dials a number.
mitch		Hey dude, I take back everything I said about Two and a Half Men. This is some edgy shit--
dave		Tatiana is on her way over!
mitch		Nice.
dave		What do you think I should do?!
mitch		I think you should fuck her, that's what I think you should do. Jamie looks over at Mitch, weirded out; he gets up and crosses into the hallway for some privacy.
dave		But wouldn't I be...sort of... cheating on Jamie? Maybe?
mitch		No! Cheating is when any part of your penis touches any part of another woman who is not your wife, and last I checked, your wang is safely tucked away in my incredibly lame triple-pleated sport slacks.
dave		But my mind is over here, doesn't that count... somehow?
mitch		Dude, how many women have you fucked in your mind? Thousands?
dave		Millions.
mitch		Right, and that's not cheating, right?
dave		Your reasoning is oddly impeccable.
mitch		I think you're on firm legal ground here, amigo. I say jump that ass.
dave		Jesus ...I haven't had sex with another woman since college...
mitch		Well, it still works the same, but this chick is a lot to handle so pace yourself, okay? She's hornier than a priest at summer camp.
dave		Oh my God so am I--. There's a KNOCK at the apartment door. Dave jumps, freaked:
mitch		You'll do fine. Just wear a condom, okay? Don't give me AIDS-- Just then WHAM -- the door flies open and a very sexy blonde enters the apartment wearing a long trenchcoat and five inch stiletto heels. She moves towards Dave like a panther.
dave		 Tatiana...
tatiana		Are you ready to ride?
dave		I-I honestly don't know... She throws off her trenchcoat to reveal she's not wearing anything underneath. Awesome. Less awesome is the fact that she's NINE MONTHS PREGNANT. Massive breasts sit atop a huge, distended, veiny, protruding stomach. Dave recoils.
tatiana		Why the fuck are you still wearing clothes? As she advances towards him, Dave climbs up the futon.
dave		But you're--?! When are you due?!
tatiana		Any minute now, so let's get our fuck on before this becomes a threesome.
dave		Oh god gross! Wait, who's the father? Am I the father?!
tatiana		No...but you are my daddy...
dave		Holy shit you're so heavy--
tatiana		My tits are aching for you.
dave		Actually that's probably just the colostrum coming in, it can be very
tatiana		Okay: what's your deal tonight?
dave		Nothing! Nothing. I just--
tatiana		Is it my new haircut?
dave		No...?
tatiana		The trenchcoat? Too cliche?
dave		No! I love the coat.
tatiana		Is it, I don't know, the pregnancy?
dave		Well...now that you mention it? Maybe, like, a little?
tatiana		What the hell?! You picked me up at a Single Mothers Lamaze class! What did you expect?!
tatiana		 What?! I'm not sexy?!
dave		Oh my god I can see it kicking. You can, in fact, see the fetus moving around in her belly.
tatiana		You know what? Fuck you, Mitch. Don't ever call me again. She yanks on her coat and storms out. Dave stammers.
mitch		Jesus, Dave, it's called a sit-up. Then he sees Jamie's dress land on the bedroom floor, followed by her bra... Mitch exhales:
jamie		I have to cool it on the Thai food. I've had the shits all day.
mitch		Oh my GOD.
jamie		Seriously -- light a candle. She keeps shitting. It sounds like Niagara Falls. Thunderous. Foregoing the candle, Mitch covers his nose with his forearm and stumbles out of the bathroom, nauseous...
jamie		What is your problem?
mitch		Look, I am not attracted to you right now, okay?! So just... No means no, all right? No means no... TIGHT ON Jamie rolling over, confused and genuinely hurt...
jamie		Are you fucking kidding me?
mitch		No, it's 3 in the morning, you go do it. You're the mother.
jamie		Get the fuck out bed right now and go feed your fucking children or I will fucking cut you! Mitch is already scrambling out of the room, terrified.
mitch		Yes Jamie I'm sorry Jamie!
dave		Oh come on...  What?
mitch		I always thought your wife was a nice lady but she is neither nice nor a lady! She talks like a dock- worker and she shits like one too! Plus I used to think your kids were adorable but actually they're just really fucking annoying and crazy needy-- Wait, are you jacking off?
dave		What? No!
mitch		So why are you panting?
dave		Look, I had to, I never get this kind of privacy anymore.
mitch		But isn't that sort of...my penis? Dave looks down.
dave		Yeah. I guess. Is that weird?
mitch		I. .don't know?
dave		It sort of hooks to the side a bit.
mitch		Yeah. Go lefty, you'll get better torque.
dave		Cool, thanks. Hey, how long have you been shaved down there?
mitch		It's kind of pro forma now, dude.
dave		Really?
mitch		Yeah, only married dudes still rock dick-fros anymore-- wait: if Tatiana was over earlier, why do you still need to jack off?
dave		Yeeeah, Tatiana might not be coming back. Like, ever.
mitch		What did you do?!
dave		Me?! She's nine months pregnant!
mitch		Oh my God you're so picky!
dave		I could see the baby kicking, dude!
mitch		So what, she's having a girl! It wouldn't have been a little boy tickling your tip! Jesus, I can't believe you fucked up my Tuesday night regular!
dave		Relax, Mitch--
mitch		No! You married guys have no idea how hard it is to build a reliable stable! You don't! It's a full time job! Getting girls' phone numbers, calling them, emailing them, Facebooking them, Twittering them, buying them drinks and dinners and coffees and listening to endless stories about their stupid fucking friends and begging them to touch your wiener on the second date and building an elaborate web of lies so they don't all find out about each other -- it's exhausting! And then poof! In one night, you just casually discard my life's work!
dave		Jesus, okay, I'm sorry...
mitch		Sorry doesn't lick my ballbag every Tuesday night...
dave		Look, is there a reason you're calling me at 3 in the morning? Mitch glares back to the twins, who are still WAILING.
mitch		Yeah, your mean wife is making me feed the kids. What do I do?
dave		Have you changed their diapers already?
mitch		 Yes. Obviously.
dave		Okay, take them to the kitchen.
mitch		Hold on. Mitch puts the phone in his mouth and picks up the SCREAMING TWINS. Carrying them like bags of wheat, he jogs down
the hallway		as they scream their heads off. He's totally rattled:
mitch		All right. In the kitchen.
dave		Go to the fridge... Mitch turns away from the twins and opens the fridge. He sees a bottle of wine and immediately drinks from the bottle.
mitch		Yeah?
dave		Defrost two bags of breastmilk in the microwave for 3 minutes, then prepare two separate bottles... Mitch grabs a container of cow's milk, sniffs it, turns to give it to the babies -- to discover that Sarah is gone, and Peter is licking an ELECTRICAL SOCKET!
mitch		Holy fuck! Mitch yanks Peter away just as SPARKS shoot from the socket!
dave		What was that?
mitch		Nothing! Go on! Two bottles...?
dave		First: attach the filter to the seal to the nipple... Mitch hears CLINK CLINK and spins to see that Sarah has crawled over to the KNIFE BLOCK and removed a BUTCHER KNIFE and a MEAT CLEAVER and is waving them about like rattles!
mitch		Oh jesus oh jesus... Mitch approaches her, wide-eyed, tentative -- when Sarah giggles and spastically whips the cleaver at him! He barely sidesteps it, and it impacts into a cupboard door -- F-TWANG!
dave		I know, right? And make sure you don't allow any air bubbles in. Mitch grabs a pair of tongs and, after a few attempts, snatches the butcher knife from Sarah's hands. Then he scoops her up and deposits her into the sink with her brother. Finally, he slumps over, trying to catch his breath.
mitch		Dude. Listen to me: you need to go downtown first thing tomorrow morning and you need to find that fucking fountain... He starts pouring cow's milk into the babies' mouths. It splashes all over them, but they manage to lap up some of it.
dave		Great. So where's the fountain?
dave		WHAT? How long can it possibly take you to find your own fountain?!
dave		Real bad news--! Jamie startles and quickly dries her eyes.
jamie		Dave's in the shower.
dave		Are you okay...? Dave enters, concerned, and instinctively starts helping her dress the babies. She watches him, a bit confused.
dave		Oh my god I'm going to fucking kill him.
jamie		Just tell me honestly...is Dave having an affair?
dave		No. Jamie. I swear he's not. You're just going through a very temporary rough patch, okay?
jamie		Temporary? We've been in this rough patch for years
dave		 Y-You have?!
jamie		You don't want to hear about this.
dave		No I really do. Tell me everything. Jamie looks at him, sees the urgency in his eyes. Frowns.
jamie		It's not his fault, really...I love him with all my heart, you know I do, but-you remember Dave's family growing up. They were a mess. They had nothing. Dave's entire childhood was spent looking over the fence, wanting a better life. So he scrimped and saved and worked four jobs at once and put himself through school and built a better life for himself. I've always loved that about him.
dave		well poor Jamie! You have an ambitious, hard-working husband who provides for you and your family -- how can you even stand it?
mitch		Check it out: I have freckles on my taint! How awesome is that?! They turn to see Mitch in the doorway, buck naked and wet, holding a hand-mirror under his balls. Then he sees Dave.
mitch		What the fuck does that even mean?!
dave		It means we might be in each other's bodies for a while...
mitch		What?! No! I can't do this anymore! Your life sucks!
dave		My life sucks?! You drive a Fiero-- Jamie calls through the door:
dave mitch		All right, angel! Have a nice day!
mitch		Yup! Just two dudes chilling in the bathroom, nothing weird about that!
dave		Listen to me: I know I complain about my family sometimes, but Jamie and the kids are everything to me... My marriage is falling apart, my job is on the line, and I need you to step up and be the best possible version of me, okay?
mitch		Dude, honestly, I'm working my nuts off over here. I don't know how to play you any better.
dave		Well. Then I'm just gonna have to teach you. Let's start at the
dave		This is called a suit. You have to wear one every day, along with-- 
mitch		Oh come on!
dave		No! No more commando! You are a grown-ass man! Mitch mimics heiling Hitler and starts getting dressed...
dave		This is called a schedule. It tells you everything you need to do in a given day. Drop offs. Pick ups. Activities. Playdates. Doctors appointments. You'll notice that there are approximately 50 hours worth of obligations on any given day. Find a way.
dave		Always be thinking of your next responsibility. It helps to break your day into four minute increments. And remember: there is no margin for error.
dave		This is called a grocery store. You buy food here. Before heading to the market, always call Jamie first and ask her if she needs anything. In fact, before you make anV decisions in your life, no matter how small, call your wife first. Think of yourself as a retarded mule lost in the desert: helpless, dumb, and in constant need of direction. Never take initiative, never strike out on your own, never deviate from the plan: you are always wrong. You are a retarded mule lost in the desert.
dave		When you're with Jamie, you should always be doing one of three things: asking her permission, complimenting her, or begging her forgiveness. It doesn't matter if she already said you could go to poker night, or if she looks like fucking Mothra in that dress, or if you didn't do anything wrong. Permission, compliments, apologies. That's all anyone wants to hear out of a husband's mouth. Here, let's practice: what's your favorite joke?
mitch		Umm...? A rabbi, a priest--? BAM! Dave punches Mitch in the nuts.
dave		Trick question! No one fucking cares! You're Dave Lockwood, boring dad, you're not Jerry Fucking Seinfeld! Shut the fuck up! Mitch clutches his balls, hurt and scared...
dave		These are called children, or dependents. Never disparage your own children -- everything they do is a miracle from God. When they're bad, it's only because they're tired or going through a phase. When other people's kids are bad, however, it's because of indulgent parenting or innate defects in the
dave		This is called an office, or work. Think about whatever you most want to do here, and then do the exact opposite. You want to go home early? Great: stay all night. Hungry? Cool: don't eat. Think your boss is a total douche? Terrific: invite him to join your fantasy baseball league. A cute ASSOCIATE walks by and Mitch overtly eye-fucks her all the way past. Dave nut-punches him again.
mitch		Wait, so I can't sleep with my wife and I can't sleep with other women? What is that?
dave		It's called marriage. Dave turns into his office, nodding at his mean secretary.
dave		Do you have any other questions?
mitch		Yeah -- when's your free time?
dave		 Have you been listening to one word I've said?! There is no fucking free time! You don't have a life anymore! You don't have a personality, or an identity, or a point of view! You are a dad!
mitch		Dry handjob?
dave		Nothing! You're not single anymore! No one gives you a cupcake every time you hold the door or speak in complete sentences, it's expected of you now, so grow up!
mitch		Okay, can I just say something without you punching my cock?  I think you might be taking some of this adult shit a little seriously--
mitch		HELL-lo legs.
sabrina		Yes...um...sort of big news.
mitch		 Please, come in! Coffee? Scotch?
sabrina		 No... thanks? Anyway, Kinkabe and Amalgamated have agreed to go into binding mediation in two days.
dave		Two days? Are you kidding me?! Sabrina glances at Dave, confused, no idea who he is.
sabrina		N-No? Anyway, I'll have my briefs on your desk by tonight.
mitch		 And I'll have my briefs on your chin by tomorrow morning--
dave		And that is Level 4 Sexual Harassment! Awesome! Thanks, Sabrina, that will be all.
mitch		Oh shit, this is Sabrina?! Sabrina looks at Dave, even more confused.
sabrina		Have. . .Have we met?
dave		 Oh. I'm sorry, no. I'm Mitch, Dave's completely idiotic friend.
mitch		You guys should go out!
dave		What?
mitch		Yeah! You're single now, Mitch, remember? And Sabrina is stone fucking hot! Look at that body! Sabrina: swimmer in college?
sabrina		Dave--?
mitch		You two should go out, have a nice steak dinner, go dancing at some weird Korean nightclub and then fuck on the roof, you know what I mean? How's 8pm tomorrow night, Richter's Steakhouse? Sabrina and Dave stammer, sharing a terrorized look.
sabrina		Um, good, I guess...?
mitch		Great! I know for a fact that Mitch is free, so he'll see you there! And honey: wear something tight, you know what I mean? Make it fun.
sabrina		Yeah...I'm gonna go now...? Sabrina hurries out, appalled. Dave clutches his forehead:
dave		Oh my god I'm so fucking fired.
mitch		No dude: you're so fucking laid!
dave		You can't talk to women like that at work! Or anywhere, really!
mitch		I'm sorry, I just got you a date with the number one girl on your Cancer List and this is the thanks I get?
dave		I'm not going on the date, Mitch.
mitch		Yes you are.
dave		No. I'm not.
mitch		Yes you are, because if you don't, I will feed'your children non- organic snacks and then introduce them to my extensive girl-on-horse pornography collection. How do you think Jamie will react to that? Dave just looks at Mitch, horrified.
dave		Why...Why are you doing this to me?
mitch		Because I've seen your life and if you don't loosen up soon you are literally going to die. So go out with this chick. Have fun. Bust a nut. Remember why life is beautiful again, okay? Please? This actually gets to Dave a bit. He frowns, fine...
voice		Dave? Mitch turns to see his father, MITCH, SR. passing, smiling.
mitch		Oh! Hey... Mister ...Planko? What are you doing here?
mitch		Yeah, maybe if you're from Kansas.
mitch		 What's that supposed to mean?
mitch		I mean, you still have a really fucking cool son, right?!
mitch		They're fucking fine-- what the fuck does that mean, "Mitch is definitely cool?!"
mitch		But what, dude?! Spit it out!
mitch		Your son is not a fuck up, M-Mr. Planko! He's just a late bloomer! His dad looks utterly confused as Mitch gets into the car.
mitch		I'm sorry, I'm just very close to Mitch and when people say mean things about him I hurt too-- He SLAMS the door shut and jerks out of the parking spot, tears pouring down his face. His dad watches on, bewildered.
mitch		Fuck! Fuck... And then Survivor's "Eye of the Tiger" comes on the radio. Mitch's expression slowly turns to steely determination...
black stillness		As "Eye of the Tiger" continues playing, we hear a baby SCREAM BLOODY MURDER. Then we hear a second baby join in. Finally, we hear the worst two words a parent can ever hear:
mitch		I need the book CORPORATE LAW FOR DUMMIES, every season of Law & Order on DVD and Blu-Ray, and the biggest fucking coffee you can carry on my desk in 15 minutes or else you're fired. Gladys writes this down on a pad of paper, a bit turned on...
mitch		Fuck me she's cute...
jamie		Uh oh, here comes the second battement glisse... Jamie tenses up. Mitch does too... As Cara starts her spin, Nicolette Peters goes to push her over -- and Cara calmly grabs her arm, FLIPS her over her shoulder, and drops her flat on her back with a loud WHAM! As Nicolette starts CRYING, Cara calmly continues dancing like nothing happened. The other girls on stage look pleased. Mitch CLAPS and WHISTLES:
jamie		Honey--?.
jamie		Well, looks like you won't be doing ballet at the rec center anymore.
cara		That's okay. I didn't really like it anyway.
mitch		Where'd you learn to ninja-flip a girl like that?
cara		The internet.
mitch		Good girl. So what'd we learn from this?
cara		Always solve my problems with violence.
mitch		That's right, baby. Bones. They bump fists. Jamie is stunned.
jamie		What?! No, angel, that's exactly the wrong lesson. You should never use violence, except to defend yourself, okay? Mitch subtly shakes his head at Cara, don't listen to her.
mitch		Violence is cool.
jamie		Dave!
mitch		I'm kidding!
cara		I love you, Daddy...
mitch		Don't move. I'll be right over.
dave		How do I look?!
mitch		Like a fucking tool. Step aside-- Mitch throws open the closet and yanks out a pair of jeans.
dave		Jeans? To a restaurant? Mitch punches Dave in the nuts; he doubles over.
mitch		Shut up and do what I say. We only have 3 hours to make you cool...
mitch		This is called gel, or product. Use too little and you look like a pedophile Cub Scout leader, use too much and you look Persian. Neither is a winning hand. Dave very nervously applies gel to his hair...
mitch		Okay, normally I would never do this for another man, but since we're in a rush, and technically this is my testicle bag, I'm making a rare exception. Always man-scape before a first date. It shows a lady that you're clean, considerate, and American.
mitch		Don't speak, it jiggles your sack.
dave		I can't believe you just charged a Ferrari to my Discover Card.
mitch		You need to learn to be spontaneous, Dave. Chicks like spontaneous.  Hey ladies! Show us your tits! They flip him off. Mitch laughs. Dave is still floored:
dave		What are we gonna tell Jamie...?
mitch		Do me a favor, Dave. Relax your butt hole.
dave		What?
mitch		Your sphincter. Just... release it. Dave's entire body visibly relaxes a bit.
dave		It's been so long since I felt cool...
mitch		I know, baby. I know. They cruise for a bit longer, then Mitch pulls into a CAR WASH. Dave looks confused.
dave		Why are we washing the car? It's brand new.
mitch		We're not washing the car, David. We're getting you mentally, physically, and spiritually ready for your date. Come on.
mitch		Now. I don't have time to cover all the ways in which women have changed since you last dated... Mitch stops at the register to pay. Various CAR WASH EMPLOYEES keep saying hi to Dave, weirding him out.
mitch		The bottom line is: the internet has revolutionized everything.
dave		You mean like J-date?
mitch		Fuck J-date. No. The internet has changed chicks in three major ways: first, access and acceptance of pornography has commoditized women and pressured them into becoming sluttier at far younger ages, which is awesome. Mitch finishes paying and continues through the car wash.
dave		What's a Lady Gaga?
mitch		I don't know, it's either a pop singer or an energy drink. They arrive at the CAR WASH WAITING AREA. People sit around, waiting for their cars, many of them young, female, and cute.
dave		So wait, why are we at a car wash?
mitch		The girls are alone, bored, and old enough to drive -- it's a goldmine. I run game here four to seven times a week. Now go on, bust a move.
dave		Come on, I talk to women all the time, I don't need to practice.
mitch		Really.
dave		Yes. And no offense, as a married man, I probably know how to talk to women better than you do.
mitch		Reall v!
dave		Yes! It's not that hard. They just want to be respected and listened to like everybody else.
mitch		Okay Daddy Day Care show me how it's done then! Shit! Dave sighs and crosses to a CUTE BLONDE texting nearby. As he draws closer, however, he starts to tense up...soon he's sweating... it's been a long time ...by the time he finally reaches the blonde, his voice is ridiculously shrill:
dave		Hello there what's your name?! She doesn't even look up from her BlackBerry. Dave's confidence instantly crumbles...
mitch		Shake it off. Being single is like the Tour De France: it's all about quick recovery time. Now go on, get your groove back, you're meeting Sabrina in a half hour.
dave		Your name is Dora? Like the Explorah?! No...? You aren't familiar with that show...?
dave		 So: what school district do you live in?
dave		Yikes, what do your parents think of all those piercings?!
dave		.and that's the difference between a stroller and a pram.
young woman		My car's ready. The YOUNG WOMAN races off towards her newly cleaned car. Dave slumps, shit. Mitch nods, looking at his watch.
mitch		Forty seconds. Not bad. Your times are improving.
dave		I forgot how hard it is to be single...
mitch		As a general rule, when you're talking to single women, conversation topics to avoid include: your wife, your children, your favorite playgrounds, and The Wiggles... Dave nods, hating himself. Mitch heads for the Ferrari.
dave		I don't feel good about this.
mitch		Relax: you're dressed cool, your hair is crushing it, your ballsack is taut and smooth, and you're way better looking than you've ever been. Just remember Uncle Mitch's Golden Rule of Dating.
dave		I know, always use an alias.
mitch		What? No. No, my Golden Rule of Dating is always find the fun. Think of it like this: for the next two hours, you're stuck with this chick. Doesn't matter if she's cool or crazy or if she was born with a vagina on her forehead -- you're stuck, so make the most of it. I dated this chick named Topaz once who may or may not have killed her father. Long story short, she looked like 50 miles of bad road and I wasn't interested, but I used our time together to learn about incest and the failures of the American Appellate Court system. I found it hugely informative, and Topaz got caught up in my enthusiasm and gave me a crying blowjob on the car-ride home, so everybody won. The point is: find the fun for yourself and great things will follow. Dave looks horrified as they roll up to RICHTER'S, a chic steakhouse.
sabrina		Hey!
dave		Hey. Hi. Hello. He awkwardly goes to kiss her cheek while she goes for a handshake. It's awkward/cute.
sabrina		What. . .what is that?
dave		I-I don't know! I really don't! Sabrina smiles politely and looks around for a waiter. Dave winces, hating himself to the very core of his being...
sabrina		So. How long have you known Dave?
dave		M-My whole life, actually.
sabrina		Annnd have you ever seen him act like he did yesterday?
dave		What, like a total douchebag? She LAUGHS. Dave can't believe it. He loosens up a bit.
sabrina		No. I mean, he totally did, but it's fine. I have brothers. Dave pours both of them a glass of wine, finding his rhythm.
dave		So. You like working with Dave?
sabrina		I love it. He's the best.
dave		Isn't he just?
sabrina		I.. .eh, nevermind.
dave		No, go on.
sabrina		I actually used to sort of have a crush on him, if you must know...
sabrina		I mean, he's married, so obviously...
dave		Right. Obviously. Well, I'm just like Dave, only way more handsome. She laughs. Dave smiles back, his confidence growing, as we
dave		Well, I had a great time...
dave		Right! No! What are we, lame married people? Let's go to a rave...or something? Do people... still do that? Raving?
sabrina		My friend is spinning afterhours at Foxtail, if you want...?
sabrina		You're so funny! Come on!
dave		Now that was a first date...
sabrina		For a guy with a poker table in his living room, Kiefer Sutherland is surprisingly bad at poker.
dave		I know. I'm not even sure he understood the rules... She laughs. Then they stop in front of her apartment. Beat.
sabrina		It's so weird, I feel like I've known you for longer than just one night...
dave		Yeah. Me too... There's a lull for a kiss. Dave hesitates...so Sabrina moves in and kisses him. It's sweet but passionate... When it's over, Dave can barely speak:
sabrina		Yes -- and you'd better.
dave		Okay. Well. Good night, Sabrina.
sabrina		Good night, Mitch.
dave		Fuck that. He rolls over and goes back to sleep, a smile on his face...
dave		Well, well, look who's all growns up.
mitch		Really? Open-toed sandals at work?
dave		Are...Are you kidding me?
mitch		Look, I can't hang right now, okay? I've got the mediation in like ten minutes. Dave stands right back up, surprised and impressed.
dave		Wow. Okay. Well, I just wanted t tell you that if you can get a protracted buyout for anything over 700 million dollars, take it, okay?
mitch		700 million, you got it.
dave		 Also, I wanted to thank you for setting me up with Sabrina. She's amazing. I can't wait to see her
mitch		What?! Dave: No. You can't, you have to wait at least a week! Dave reaches for his cellphone as he heads out the door.
dave		Which reminds me, I wanted to call to see if she got the flowers...
mitch		You sent her flowers after one date?! Are you retarded?! Do not get me into a relationship, dude! Too late. Dave is already gone. Mitch scowls. Then:
gladys		I haven't had sex in 34 years! This isn't over tit I su e' it's over.
mitch		F-Fine, but can you please stop following me to the bathroom and calling my house late at night and sending me all those filthy emails? It's, you know, deeply disturbing.
gladys		You need to realize something, boy:  I fucking own you now. The old lady aggressively makes out with Mitch. Her tongue roams from his mouth and madly licks his face, neck, and forehead. Eventually they separate. Mitch looks stunned.
mitch		I've created a monster...
erin walsh		Thank you all for coming. My name is Erin Walsh and I will be mediating your claim today... Mitch makes the "I'm gonna slit your fucking throat" gesture to Ken Kinkabe, who recoils, what the...:
mitch		14! 14 sandwiches and 9 Diet Slice's! Pay up, cocksucker! An EXEC gives him a 5 dollar bill. Mitch waves it in the air and HUMS the Olympic theme song. Flemming just glares at him like, you're so fired. Then the mediator enters.
erin walsh		Kinkabe agrees in principle to the terms of the sale, and valuates your company at 725 million dollars. This is their last and final offer. I'll be outside. She exits. CEO Ted Norton looks at Flemming, intense.
mitch		Fuck that, dude, you can do better.
mitch		Look, this is just like when you're trying to fuck a Jewish girl and she keeps saying "no, no, I don't want to, I'm really drunk and you're not circumcised" but then she keeps making out with you and not getting out of your Fiero so you know she really does want it, she just needs to be nudged a bit more so she can rationalize it to herself and to her God, know what I mean? This is just like that. Everyone in the room is speechless. Mitch opens another soda.
mitch		If this was really their final offer, they'd leave. Instead, they're sticking around, which means they have more money to spend. Ted looks at his execs. It's not a terrible point...
mitch		Enh, can't hurt to ask. You wouldn't believe the nasty shit I get girls to do just by asking. Honestly, it's revolting.
mitch		Nice, bro. Way to show some sack.
mitch		Hey, me too. Bones. He extends his fist. Ted ignores him and gathers his things.
erin walsh		Sir, Mr. Kinkabe has agreed to the 825 million. The deal is closed.
mitch		Fuck it. Helping ridiculously rich people become even more ridiculously rich is why I go to work every day.
mitch		I am?! Fuck, I've never really been good at anything before... Mitch considers this a second, then laughs, proud.
sabrina		Yeah, my family's been coming to Dodger games since they moved here from Brooklyn in '58. Dave looks at her, his amazement only growing...
dave		Really? Who's your favorite Dodger?
sabrina		Fernando, obviously.
dave		It's too soon to say I love you, right? That's against the rules? she laughs and kisses him.
sabrina		You're cute. Smiling, Dave looks out at the perfect ball field, his arm around Sabrina-he looks profoundly... existentially.. .happy. And then his iPhone RINGS. He answers it:
dave		Mitch Planko who the fuck is this.
dave		Oh my God, hi! Dave steps away to take the call. Carla does another whippet.
dave		And... and how long is it going to be there?
dave		And after that?
dave		Right. Okay, well thanks, Carla.  Hello?
mitch		You hear about the fountain?
dave		Yeah... We should probably switch back, huh? Mitch high-fives a co-worker.
mitch		Sure. Right. I mean... the funny thing is...I was just starting to enjoy your life a little bit...
dave		Yeah, and I was just starting to enjoy yours, too...
mitch		Really?
dave		Really.
mitch		So.. .maybe we should keep going--?
dave		I'm so glad you said that.
mitch		I'm so glad I said that too! Your life rocks!
dave		And I love yours! All the free time and the fun activities and I'm really growing as an actor and I think Sabrina might actually have intercourse with me tonight!
mitch		Dude, you sent her flowers -- she's gonna fuck you like a crack whore on rent day.
dave		So, wait, what are we talking about here? Staying like this... forever:
mitch		No! Course not.
dave		Right! That's crazy... Beat.
mitch		Is it though...? Mitch bumps fists with smiling co-workers... Dave watches Sabrina CHEER after a base hit...
dave		It's so strange, when the change-up happened, we were so focussed on switching back into our bodies that we didn't even consider that this might be exactly what we both needed...
mitch		Yeah, we're fucking morons.
dave		All right, well, see ya, Dave...
mitch		Take it easy, Mitch...
cara		Look, Daddy, it's you and me! Mitch forces a tight smile, right...
jamie		I'm so proud of you, baby. You worked so hard for this... Mitch winces, knowing just how wrong she is. All around him, the partners stand, APPLAUDING. Mitch stands, a bit dizzy.
mitch		I-I'm sorry...I just... He hurries off towards the bathroom. Everyone looks confused.
sabrina		Oh my god, I'm soaking--  Wait, are you a single guy? Dave laughs and throws her a towel from the bathroom. She starts drying her hair.
mitch		What am I doing...? This isn't my life...
voice		Good evening, Mr. Lockwood... He spins to see Gladys in the doorway, vamping, sexy...
mitch		Oh no. Gladys, not now--
gladys		 I'm not wearing any bloomers...
mitch		I thought we talked about not using
gladys		What's bothering you, Mr. Lockwood?
mitch		Look, Gladys, I love bathroom sex as much as the next guy, but-- She SPITS in his face, crazy-eyed.
mitch		 O-Okay? Well, I guess what's bothering me is...I didn't earn any of this, you know? Gladys rips open his shirt and starts licking his chest downward until she disappears OUT OF FRAME.
mitch		Uh oh.
mitch		Sir, it's not my fault--!
jamie		I thought you might be having an affair... but not with Gladys:
gladys		Age-ist.
mitch		Jamie, you gotta believe me, this woman is a predator--!
jamie		You know what? No. I can't do this anymore. I want you out of the house by the time the kids wake up.
mitch		Jamie--! Too late. She runs off, choking back tears...
mitch		FUCK! Fuck... He stands in the rain, overcome with self-loathing...
dave		You find anything that fits? Then Sabrina appears in the doorway, wearing one of his old tee shirts-and panties.. .and nothing else... she's unreal...
sabrina		This is all I could find...
sabrina		Is everything okay, baby...?
dave		Yeah, no, I just... Dave rubs his temples, overwhelmed...
sabrina		Why not--? Just then the door flies open and
jamie		Dave is cheating on me! Dave quickly covers his hard-on with a pillow.
dave		No I'm not! I'm so not!
jamie		How could you lie to me, Mitch?! We've known each other for--! Then Jamie sees scantily-clad Sabrina and stops.
dave		 Umm...she's...uh...this just got very complicated...
jamie		I'm sorry -- I'm Jamie, the wife of one of Mitch's friends.
sabrina		Wait, Jamie Lockwood? Dave's wife?
jamie		You know the prick?!
sabrina		Yeah, we work together. He cheated on you?
jamie		Yes, with his secretary, Gladys!
dave		What?!
sabrina		Of all the women in the office, he picked her?! Slightly awkward beat.
dave		Look, Jamie, I didn't know about Gladys, I swear. But I'm sure she means absolutely nothing to Dave--!
jamie		No! No more excuses! The next time you see my asshole husband tell him that I will never. Ever. Take him back, you got that?! Dave nods quickly, terrified.
cara		Daddy? Mitch turns to see Cara, small and fragile in the doorway.
mitch		Oh, angel, it's nothing. I'm just going away for a little while...
cara		Why?
mitch		It's... confusing grown-up stuff--
cara		Try me.
mitch		O-Okay? Well. I'm leaving because I'm a fuck up. Do you know what a fuck up is?
mitch		Right. Right. Well, I thought this time was different, you know? I thought I actually did something right for once. But no, I'm still the same old fuck up I've always been. Only this time I really fucking fucked up, because I fucked up my life and my best friend's life... Mitch zips up his bag, full of regret -- and finds Cara hugging his leg.
cara		I don't think you're a fuck up. He crouches down and looks at her, getting choked up...
mitch		Thanks, sweetie, but your brain is the size of a radish. I am a fuck up. I always have been, and I always will be. Guys like me, we know how to have fun, but we don't know how to do the important stuff, you know...? Be good, okay, kiddo? She nods, confused. He kisses her head and exits, emotional.
jamie		Mitch?
jamie		What is the matter with you?!
dave		Look, I know I haven't been a very good husband or father recently...
jamie		What are you talking about--?
dave		But I'm done looking over the fence for something better. I've seen what's on the other side, and it's great. . .and young... and supple... but it's not you. And the truth is there will always be another fence with shinier toys on the other side, but the only way to be happy is to say fuck the fence and just appreciate what you have, you know? Find the fun with what you got...
jamie		O-Okay?
dave		I'm so sorry I stopped appreciating you, pumpkin. I love you. And I love our weird little kids. And I can't believe I ever thought that wasn't enough.
jamie		Why...are you calling me pumpkin? And then he kisses her. She resists--
dave		Nothing happened, I swear.
jamie		Okay. But-we're going to need to talk about this.
dave		Yes. Totally.
jamie		Like, a lot. Like, a-therapy-lot.
dave		Absolutely: therapy, trust falls, The Landmark Forum, Eat Pray Love, I'll do whatever the fuck you want, Jamie, I just want you back... She smiles and kisses him again. And then again.
jamie		I kind of like kissing Mitch.
dave		Yeah, I noticed. I'm not sure how I feel about this.
jamie		 So ...mmm...so what do we do now?
dave		Oh shit! We gotta go!
dave		Mitch! Get in!
mitch		Dave?
dave		Get in!
mitch		 Is that Jamie?
jamie		Get in the fucking car, dipshit! Mitch, terrified, sprints to the car and hops in.
mitch		So, um, are you guys driving me to the desert to kill me?
dave		No. Jamie knows about the change- up. We're all good.
jamie		It suddenly makes a lot more sense why you spent so much time rubbing my breastfeeding cream onto my boobs every night.
dave		Really, dude?
mitch		I was just...trying to be helpful.
jamie		Oh, and what about that time you--?
dave		You know what? I don't want to know! Let's just hope we get to the warehouse before they ship off our fountain... Off Dave's concerned look we
mitch		Wait! Stop! The workmen stop packing the fountain, confused.
dave		We...We need that fountain.
mitch		Yes. We have to pee in it.
dave		It's a magic fountain. The workmen just look at them, deadpan. Then Dave reaches into his wallet and starts pulling out CASH--
dave		Come on, open the floodgates!
mitch		I can't pee with them watching! PAN OVER to the workmen, standing nearby, looking at Mitch and Dave like they're total freaks.
dave		Well I can't keep going forever! Mitch tilts his head back and quietly sings to himself:
mitch		The sun is shining all the time, Looks like another perfect day, I love L.A. We love it! I love L.A...
dave		Are you singing Randy Newman--? Then we hear a second stream of PEE hit the fountain.
mitch		Oh thank god.
dave		Okay, quick, we have to hug!
mitch		 Do we, though?
dave		Yes, we have to do everything exactly the same! Come on! As they scootch together and put their arms around each other, Mitch calls over to the workmen:
mitch		Just so you know, this isn't gay! Our penises aren't even touching--!
dave		Come on: "I wish I had my old life back" on three! One, two:
mitch dave		I wish I had my old life I wish I had my old life back! back!
dave		You think it worked?
mitch		How the fuck should I know?  Thank you! Have a pleasant evening!
jamie		 Great, go feed the fucking babies. She rolls over and goes back to sleep. He grins and runs out.
dave		You just vomited on my hand but I love yooooou...
sabrina		Last night was weird.
mitch		Wasn't it?
sabrina		So... are you ever going to have sex with me?
dave		The twins are down for their nap, Cara is watching The Backyardigans... Jamie raises her eyebrow, oh?
jamie		It's Tuesday...
dave		I know.
jamie		It's Tuesday morning.
dave		Tuesdays, Wednesdays, mornings, late night, I'm like Denny's, baby, I'm open 24-7. She laughs, and he scoops her up and heads upstairs...
mitch		I still can't get used to the whole underwear thing. It's such a
cara		Hi Daddy!
dave		Sugar-bug!
mitch		How's my favorite ballerina?!
cara		I'm not a ballerina anymore, bitch. She races off. Mitch painfully pulls himself to his feet.
mitch		Jesus fucking Christ... Dave sees SABRINA, looking angelic in a sundress, chatting with a circle of GUESTS on the patio.
dave		So. How's it going with Sabrina?
mitch		Great. We just celebrated our two week anniversary.
dave		Wow. Good for you. Mitch nods, proud, I know. Swigs his beer.
mitch		You think she's fucking Fernando Valenzuela? We see that the man she's talking to is, in fact, Dodger great FERNANDO VALENZUELA, in a pimped-out white suit.
dave		Maybe.
mitch		I'm oddly okay with it.
dave		I can't believe they're family friends.
mitch		I know. She really is perfect-- Just then TATIANA and KIEFER SUTHERLAND approach, wheeling her newborn DAUGHTER in a pram.
kiefer sutherland		I gotta go feed her baby, but congrats on your new gig, bro.
mitch		Thanks, Kiefer. See you guys. Mitch kisses Tatiana on the cheek and they head off.
dave		Oh yeah. Dave flips the burgers.
mitch		Thanks again for hooking me up with the job at Amalgamated, man.
dave		Hey, the CEO owed me a favor...
mitch		I think I'm really going to crush it in corporate America.
dave		I think so too. Just then, MITCH'S DAD approaches.
mitch		I love you too, Dad. They break apart. Mitch, Sr. heads off. Then he stops. Turns.
dave		Is it weird that I miss your penis?
mitch		Not really.
****Dialogues from script :Changeling.txt****

changeling		A True Story
christine		Walter...time for school, honey.
walter		Just ten more minutes --
christine		Sorry, champ. 
walter		It's cereal, it's supposed to be cold.
christine		We're here, sweetie.   Come on.
christine		Okay Sandy, what's the prob--
operator		You deal with this one, I'm not going near it.
christine		Hello? Yes, this is the supervisor, ma'am, what can I --  Oh. No, I...I've never heard of anything like that before either. Guess there's a first time for everything, right? No, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do about people abusing the equipment or... themselves. I'm sorry. I --
christine		Unfortunately that was part of the problem. If you'll excuse me....
christine		Hey, sport.
walter		Hey, mom.
christine		So how was school?
walter		Okay. We learned about dinosaurs, and I got in a fight with Billy Mankowski.
christine		What happened?
walter		He hit me.
christine		Did you hit him back?  Good. Rule number one: Never start a fight, but always finish it. So why did he hit you?
walter		Because I hit him.
christine		Wait...you hit him first?  Why?
walter		He said my dad ran off because he didn't like me.
christine		Your dad never even had a chance to meet you...so how could he not like you?
walter		Then why did he leave?
christine		Well, the same day you were born, something else arrived. It came in the mail, in a box just slightly bigger than you. You know what was in that box?  Something called responsibility. Now, to some people, responsibility is fun, it's what you live your whole life for. Other people think it's the scariest thing in the world.
walter		So he ran away because he was scared of what was in the box?
christine		Yup.
walter		That's dumb.
christine		That's what I thought.
christine		Walter, I decided a long time ago that I would always tell you the truth, that I would treat you like a grown-up. I can't expect you to respect me unless I respect you.  I've never lied to you. Your father leaving had nothing to do with you, and everything to do with what was in the responsibility box.
walter		Pinky-swear?
christine		Pinky-swear.
christine		First one to the corner store gets ice cream!
walter		Did I miss Amos and Andy?
christine		I'm afraid so, sport.   Come on now, time for bed.
walter		Are we still going to the movies tomorrow?
christine		Uh-huh. I hear there's a new Charlie Chaplin playing down at Grauman's, and a new serial called The Mysterious Airman.
walter		Who's that?
christine		I don't know. Nobody does. That's what makes him so mysterious.
walter		Oh.   Am I too heavy for you to carry?
christine		Not for years yet, Walter.     Not for years.
christine		Hello?  All right, I...guess we can do it tomorrow. I'll get there as soon as I can. But just until four, okay? See you in a bit.
christine		There's a sandwich and milk in the icebox, and I've asked Mrs. Riley if her daughter can stop by in a couple of hours, just to --
walter		I can take care of myself.
christine		Of course you can. She's coming by to check on the house, not you.
christine		Tomorrow, we'll go to the movies. Then we'll ride the Big Red down to Santa Monica and walk on the pier. How's that? That okay? 
walter		I'm not afraid of the dark.     I'm not afraid of anything.
christine		I know you're not, honey. That's how I raised you.  Be good. See you in a bit.
operators		We've got lines jammed from here to Ohio...he insists on talking to someone in charge...I've tried everything and the console's just dead...I need your signature here for a supply requisition....
christine		All right, get me the Omaha routing station, see if we can put the calls through their switchers...and let's get that console running....
christine		Thank you, Mr. Harris, but I --
christine		That's great, Mr. Harris, I really appreciate the vote of confidence.
christine		I'm sorry, but I really have to go. We'll talk on Monday. Good night! She races out to
christine		Wait...wait...hold on, just a --
christine		Walter?
christine		Walter...?
christine		Walter?   Honey? Time to come in.
christine		Susie honey, have you seen Walter?
girl		Nuh-uh.
christine		Mrs. Riley, I'm sorry to bother you at dinnertime, but I was wondering if Walter was here.
christine		Do you know if Jamie was able to look in on him?
christine		I'm sure it's fine, I just...  Thank you, Mrs. Riley.
christine		Walter...?     Walter.... She starts walking again. Faster now. Looking around trees and porches, anywhere a nine-year-old boy might hide. She hears children playing. Laughing. She picks up her pace, homing in on the sound.
christine		Yes, Operator, give me the police.
christine		Yes, hello, my name is Christine Collins, I live at 210 North Avenue 23...I'm calling to report a missing child...it's my son, he....
christine		I'm not sure...I just got home from work and...it could be since late this morning, it could be just an hour --
christine		Yes, of course, I --
christine		No, he always stays around the house when it starts to get dark. Can you please send someone down here? POLICE DISPATCHER  I'm sorry, but our policy is that we don't dispatch units on missing child cases for twenty-four hours.
christine		What?   But that's --
christine		That's not Walter, he doesn't do that.
christine		Please, I --
christine		The police are doing all they can, and frankly I could use the money. It's been almost a month, and...it wouldn't do any good to find Walter and bring him home if he doesn't have a home to come back to, right?
christine		Excuse me, can I have your attention?
christine		Listen, everyone, I appreciate your consideration, but I'm not made of porcelain. I won't break down and cry if the station to station call to Kankakee doesn't go through.  Point is...I like the noise here. So don't be afraid to talk and...push buttons, and drop things. If it wasn't noisy, how would I know I was in the right place?
operator		I think I saw her in the back office.
christine		Missing Persons department, please.  Well, I'll try back next week. If you do hear anything in the meantime, would you be sure to let me know? Thanks. Goodbye.
christine		Missing persons department, please.
cook		Two dollars.
man		Hell...looks like I left my wallet at home. Can I owe it to you?
cook		No credit. Pay up or I call the cops. I'm tired of bums like you coming around here.
man		I'm not trying to stiff you, chief. I just left my wallet at home, that's all. I'll go back and get it. Five, ten minutes tops.
cook		You got any collateral?
boy		But --
man		Now don't give me any trouble. He's a good man to trust us like this. You just sit here while I go get my wallet. Okay?
cook		Ten minutes, then I'm calling the cops.
cook		Ah, hell....
cook		Hello, Myrtle? It's Harve, down by the diner. Would you get me Sheriff Larsen? Yeah, I'll wait.
cook		What's your name, son?    Son...?
boy		I don't remember. COOK Swell.
jones		Mrs. Collins?
jones		My name is Captain J. J. Jones, Lincoln Park Juvenile Division. My office supervises all runaway and missing child cases, including your son's, and....  He's alive, Mrs. Collins. He was picked up two days ago by local police in De Kalb, Illinois. He's safe and unhurt. He was in the company of some drifter, we've got an APB out for him now, and --
christine		All these reporters...you didn't tell me --
jones		Yours is a story with a happy ending, Mrs. Collins. People love happy endings.  Train should be pulling in shortly. We'd better get a move on.
jones		Thank you...we'll have a statement for you in a little while. 
matron		No, I didn't.
matron		I don't know, you'll have to ask. But with all this attention, who knows, maybe they will.
jones		Mrs. Collins, I'd like to introduce you to Chief of Police James E. Davis.
christine		Oh, my, I didn't expect --
davis		We don't get a lot of positive attention from the boys in the press these days, so it's good to be here when there's a positive story, don't you think?
davis		I take it you've been treated well by my boys in the department?
christine		Oh...yes, of course, they've been great. Well, there was that part about having to wait twenty-four hours before filing a report, but --
davis		Technicalities aside --
christine		Yes...other than that, no complaints. They've all been wonderful.
davis		Good, then you won't have any problem telling that to the press, and how the LAPD is concerned first and foremost with the safety of --
jones		Women.    Just a sec....
christine		Walter...Walter!
jones		Well?   Aren't you going to --
christine		He's not my son.
jones		I...what are you --
christine		He's not my son.  He's not my son.
jones		I'm...I'm sure you're mistaken.
christine		Mistaken?
jones		He's been through four long, terrible months...he's gone through changes, lost weight --
christine		I know my own son.
jones		I'm just saying...I mean, you're in shock, and he's changed, and --
christine		It's a common name, it --
jones		Do you know where you live, Walter? Do you know your home address?
jones		Mrs. Collins...listen to me. I know you're feeling uncertain right now, but that's to be expected...a boy this age changes so fast...but we've compensated for that in our investigation. We're experts in child identification. There's no question that this is your son.
christine		It's not Walter.
jones		It's not Walter as you remember him. That's why it's important for you to take him home, on a...trial basis.
christine		A trial basis?
jones		Once you've put him back in familiar surroundings, and given yourself time to recover from the shock of his changed condition...you'll see that it is him. I swear to you, Mrs. Collins. I give you my word. Trust me...this is your son.
jones		If there's any problem, any problem at all, come and talk to me and I'll take care of it.  Mrs. Collins...he has nowhere else to go.
christine		I...look, I'll take him home, but only because I...might not be thinking clearly right now, and --
jones		Thank you.
reporters		How does it feel to have your son home, Mrs. Collins? What did you think when you saw him for the first time?
christine		It was...it's...hard to explain.
jones		 It was certainly quite a shock. At first she hardly recognized him. Perfectly natural, the boy's been through quite an ordeal.
reporter		How're you feeling, son?   Bet it feels great to be home.
another reporter		Can we get a photo of mother and son, Captain?
christine		I --
jones		Absolutely.
christine		Was the sandwich all right?  Would you like some more milk?
christine		No, thank you. "WALTER" No, thank you.
christine		Now you need a bath. You're covered with soot from the train ride.
christine		I found you a pair of pajamas. I bought them for Walter but he didn't like the fabric, so --
christine		Are you all right?
christine		Did you hurt yourself?     Let me see --
christine		...circumcised....
christine		The last time I measured Walter -- the last time I measured my son -- he was four inches taller than you are right now.  Who are you?
christine		He's not my son.
jones		Mrs. Collins --
christine		I don't know who he is, or why he's saying he's Walter, but there's clearly been some kind of mistake.
jones		We agreed you would give him time to adjust --
christine		He's four inches shorter than Walter. Boys his age don't shrink. If anything, he should be taller.
jones		Maybe your measurements are off. Look, I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation for --
christine		He's circumcised. Walter wasn't.
jones		Mrs. Collins...your son was missing for four months. For at least part of that in the company of an as-yet unidentified drifter. Who knows what such a disturbed individual might have done? He could have had him...circumcised... might have --
christine		Made him smaller? Captain, please --
christine		-- why won't you listen to me?
jones		I am listening, damn it, I --  I am listening. And I understand your feelings. He's changed, no mistake. You've both been through a terrible experience. That's why he needs your support and love to bounce back.
christine		Captain, that boy wouldn't bounce back as my son if you coated him in rubber and dropped him off the roof.
jones		Why are you doing this, Mrs. Collins? You seem perfectly capable of taking care of the boy, your work pays you enough to attend to his personal needs...so I don't understand why you're trying to run away from your responsibilities --
christine		I'm not running away from anything, least of all my responsibilities. I'm even taking care of that boy because right now I'm all he has. What worries me is that you've stopped looking for Walter.
jones		Why should we look someone we've already found?
christine		But you haven't found him. He's still out there somewhere, lost, maybe hurt....
jones		His identity has been confirmed by the best minds in the field of child identification, people who know what they're doing. CHRISTINE And I don't? Captain, look, I don't want to cause trouble for you or the department. Honestly I don't. I know you've done everything you can...but there's been a terrible mistake, and I need your help if we're going to correct it...before it's too late. Please.
jones		Sara, get Dr. Tarr on the phone.
christine		Oh...yes, of course.
christine		Thank you for coming. I'm surprised Captain Jones moved so quickly. I was starting to think he didn't believe me.
christine		Doctor Tarr, I thought you were here to help me.
christine		My "motherly concern" isn't for him because he's not my son.
christine		He's four inches shorter than --
christine		What about the circumcision?
christine		Look, doctor --
christine		Wouldn't I know whether or not he was my son? I'm his mother.
christine		What're you --
christine		Dr. Tarr --
christine		Before we go...Mrs. Riley, do you have the time?
christine		Thank you.
christine		Captain, I...no, listen to me, this so-called doctor paraded me around my own neighborhood like some kind of derelict mother who couldn't even recognize her own -- 
christine		Yes.   Go on up.
christine		Stop saying that! I'm not your mother! And you're not my son! She moves toward him, her anger coming out at last.
christine		WHO ARE YOU? WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS TO ME? DAMN YOU! I WANT MY SON BACK!
christine		 I want my son back...god, please... make it stop...just make it stop.
christine		I was wrong to yell at you. You're still a child, and I think you don't really understand what you're doing, the hurt you're causing. Maybe this is all just some big game of pretend to you, but I need you to understand. Walter is...he's all I have, he's everything to me, and every day we lose because of this puts him further away from where I can help him.  Whatever the police think, whatever the world thinks, we know the truth, don't we? We both know you're not Walter. Getting you to admit that may be the only chance I have to straighten this out before it's too late. Maybe you're afraid of getting in trouble, that you're in too deep. But you're not. You don't have to tell me who you are, you just have to tell them who you're not. Just... tell them the truth.
christine		Hello?
christine		Yes?   Who is this?
christine		Oh, yes, I heard some of your radio broadcasts after my son...you were very supportive, and I appreciate --
christine		No, I --
christine		"Acting on the request of the Los Angeles Police Department, Dr. Earl 
christine		 "I examined the boy quite thoroughly, Dr. Tarr said --
reporter		How come he hasn't been able to tell anyone what happened while he was gone?
christine		Captain Jones promised he'd let me see the report before it went anywhere else.
christine		Why are they doing this?
christine		Thank you. 
davis		 We will hold court on gunmen in the Los Angeles streets. I want them brought in dead, not alive, and I will reprimand any officer who shows the least mercy to a criminal.
christine		Reverend Briegleb...I appreciate what you're saying, and what you're doing...but I'm not on a mission. The only thing I want is to find my son, that's all, and I just --
christine		If they honestly thought I was wrong, that'd be one thing...but if they don't care, if they're just trying to cover it up....
christine		What do I have to do?
christine		Well?
christine		And...?
christine		Does a gap like that get smaller with age? Because that's what they'll say.
christine		Will you be willing to sign a letter saying that officially?
christine		Well? What do you think? Is that the Walter Collins that you remember?
christine		Good morning. My name is Christine Collins. On March 10th, my nine year old son, Walter Collins, disappeared. A four month investigation resulted in a boy being brought to Los Angeles from De Kalb, Illinois. They told me, and all of you, that this boy was my son. They were wrong.  The Los Angeles Police Department made a mistake...a terrible mistake. The boy they found is not my son. That is the reason for the supposed "transformation." I have letters from his dentist, his teachers and others confirming that this boy is not my son. The letters are being reprinted now, and I should have them for you tomorrow.
christine		I have given the police department every opportunity to admit their mistake and renew the search for my son. Since they have refused to do so, I have no choice but to present my case before the public. I hope this will persuade the police to finish the job they started, and bring my son home to me.  Thank you.
jones		Morelli, I want you to find the Collins woman and get her here. Bring her in the back way, and have a couple of matrons standing by.
christine		Why are we using the back door?
christine		Is it? She allows a moment of quiet satisfaction as she's led into
desk sergeant		Hey...anybody want to take a call from the Royal Canadian Mounties? Ybarra?
ybarra		What'd they do, lose a moose?
desk sergeant		They need a juvenile living here illegally deported back to Canada. He's living with his cousin on some ranch near Riverside, in Wineville.
ybarra		All right, I'll take it, got nothing better to do....
jones		Mrs. Collins.
jones		Leave the boy for now.   We'll look after him.
jones		You've put us through quite a bit of trouble, Mrs. Collins. This situation has become an embarrassment for the entire department.
christine		It wasn't my intention to embarrass anyone. JONES No, of course not. You just told the papers we can't tell one boy from another as a compliment for the months we spent working on your case. Are you trying to make fools out of us? Is that it? Do you enjoy this?
christine		No, of course not. I had to get your attention, I had to make you understand...he's not my son.
jones		You know what your problem is? You want to shirk your responsibilities as a mother. You enjoyed being a free woman, didn't you? Enjoyed not having to worry about a young son. You could do what you wanted, go where you wanted, see anyone you wanted. But then we found your son. Brought him back. And now he's an inconvenience. That's why you cooked up this whole scheme, to try and throw him to the state, let the state raise him for you.
christine		That's not true!
jones		No? Even the boy says he's your son. Why would he do that? How would he know to do that?
christine		I don't know! All I know is that he's lying!
jones		Maybe so. Maybe he is a liar. But that's how he's been trained, isn't it? Lying was born in both of you. You're a liar and a troublemaker and if you ask me you've got no business walking the streets of Los Angeles.
christine		Just a minute -- JONES Because either you know you're lying, or you're not capable of knowing if you're lying or telling the truth. So which is it, Mrs. Collins? Are you a derelict mother? Or just nuts? Because from where I sit, those are the only options.
christine		I'm not going to sit here and take this --
jones		You want to bring in experts? Doctors? Well, I can do that too.  Matron?
jones		Mrs. Collins...do you still insist that the boy out there is not your son?
christine		Yes.
christine		Wait...what are you doing?
matron		Please don't struggle, ma'am.   You'll only hurt yourself.
jones		 You are to convey the prisoner to the Los Angeles County General Hospital Psychopathic Ward.
christine		No...wait, you can't --
jones		 Make the following entry in the booking department: Defendant states she has been deceived by police and others, and that they have given her a boy and tried to make her think it is her son when she says it is not.
matron		Got another code twelve.
nurse		Name?
matron		Collins.   Christine.
christine		Wait...please, this is a mistake.
nurse		 Certifying officer?
matron		Captain J. J. Jones, Lincoln Heights division.
christine		 Please...you have to listen to me. The police are doing this to punish me. They tried to force this boy on me and tell me he was my son, but it wasn't my son, and now they say I'm crazy --
christine		Oh, god...oh god, please, no....
nurse		If you continue to struggle I'll have to put you in a straitjacket. Do you want that?  Code twelve.
christine		No, please, you have to listen to me...wait...please!
nurse		Take off your clothes.
christine		Why?
nurse		Physical examination, body cavity search and de-lousing. Required for all new patients.
christine		That's not necessary --
nurse		You can remove your clothes yourself, or I can have the orderlies do it for you. Which do you prefer?
nurse		Spread your legs.  Wider.
nurse		Inside.
nurse		This is your room. The doctor's left for the day. He'll see you in the morning.
christine		The morning? But...wait, I've got to talk to someone in authority --
nurse		Sorry.
patient		My room...no, no...this is...this is MY room....
christine		Then if I could just use the phone.
nurse		Phone privileges are earned by good behavior. You're not allowed newspapers, magazines, radio, books or sharp objects. This is for your own good.
christine		Wait...please! There's been a terrible mistake!
patient		My room. My room.       They SAID it was MY ROOM!
christine		I'm sorry, I --
patient		MY ROOM!     MY ROOM!   MY ROOM!   MY ROOM!
ybarra		Problem?
gordon		Overheated, that's all.   She'll be fine in a bit.
ybarra		Listen, could you give me a hand? I'm trying to find a place called the Northcott Ranch, up by Wineville.
gordon		Northcott Ranch...oh yeah. You're almost there. Follow this west for about two, three miles. Then the next right. That'll bring you right to it. Something going on?
ybarra		Just looking into a juvenile matter. Thanks for the help.
ybarra		Hello? ANOTHER ANGLE - POV SHOT
ybarra		Anybody home?
ybarra		This is the police. I have a warrant for a minor named Sanford Clark. Open the door and stand aside.
ybarra		On your feet.
ybarra		Jesus...what the hell's wrong with you? Don't you know assaulting a cop is against the law?
sanford		What difference does it make now?
ybarra		We're just sending you back to Canada, son, it isn't the end of the world.
sanford		What?
ybarra		You can't just stay in the U.S. as long as you want, pal. We've got a orders to send you back home, and --
ybarra		Didn't know Canada was that funny.
briegleb		This is Pastor Gustav A. Briegleb of St. Paul's Presbyterian Church, bringing you the Lord's word on radio KGF. Good evening.
gordon		I'd like a ticket to Canada. Alberta or Vancouver, whatever's leaving tonight.
ticket vender		Don't have anything going that far tonight. Best I can do is put you on a train for Seattle. From there you can transfer to one of the locals or drive across the border.
gordon		That'll be fine. TICKET VENDER Round-trip?
gordon		One way.
ticket vender		That'll be fifteen dollars.
christine		Can I see the doctor?   Or someone in charge --
nurse		Breakfast is half an hour.
christine		But I --
nurse		Down the hall. The doctor will call for you when he's ready.  Go or stay, either way I lock the door.
carol dexter		You should eat. Eating is normal. You got to do everything you can to look normal. That's the only chance you've got. Besides, you'll need the strength.
carol dexter		My name's Carol Dexter.    What's yours?
christine		Christine.     Christine Collins.
christine		I won't be here that long. As soon as I can talk to a doctor, they'll realize there's been a terrible mistake and --
carol dexter		Yeah, that always works.  I heard them talking. You're here on a code twelve, police action. The doctors, the staff, they figure that if the police sent you here, there must be a good reason for it.
christine		Then I'll just have to prove that I'm not insane.
carol dexter		Yeah? How? The more you try to act sane, the crazier you start to look. If you smile too much, you're delusional or stifling hysteria. If you don't smile, you're depressed. If you're neutral you're emotionally withdrawn and potentially catatonic.
christine		You seem to have given this a great deal of thought.
carol dexter		I have. Don't you get it? You're code twelve. So am I. We're here for the same reason.  We pissed off the cops.
carol dexter		What, you thought you were the only one?  The lady over there was married to a cop who kept beating her up. When she tried to tell somebody, they sent her here. And that one? The police beat the crap out of her brother, broke both his arms. When she complained to the papers, they picked her up and...
christine		What about you?
carol dexter		I...work nights.  I mean, I work nights. Downtown. In some of the clubs. You know.
carol dexter		This one client started hitting me, and he wouldn't stop. So I filed a complaint. Turns out he was a cop. Next thing I know, I'm here.
christine		But how can they --
carol dexter		You're kidding right? Hey, everybody knows women are fragile, right? They're all emotions, no logic, nothin' goin' on upstairs. And sometimes, like when they say something that's a little, y'know, inconvenient...they just go fucking nuts, pardon my French. If we're insane, nobody has to listen to us. I mean, who are you going to believe, some crazy woman trying to destroy the integrity of the force, or a police officer? Then once they get us in here, we either learn to behave, and shut up, or --  Or you don't go home...or you go home like that.
carol dexter		Better finish up your oatmeal. Want to look sane for the doctors. Then I want to hear what they nailed you for.
administrator		Paperwork's come through. You'll be deported back to Canada day after tomorrow. The police there will to decide what to do with you next. I hope your stay here has convinced you not to try crossing the border illegally in future.
sanford		Wait, I...I want to talk to the officer who brought me in.
administrator		I'm sure he has far more important things to do than --
sanford		Please.   It's important.
administrator		He's off-duty until tomorrow, but... I'll see what I can do. No promises.
driver		How far you going?
gordon		Vancouver.
driver		Hop in.
gordon		Yeah, I surely do.
steele		Mrs. Collins...Dr. Jonathan Steele. Please, have a seat.
steele		I hope your stay has been comfortable so far.
christine		Fine.   Thank you.
steele		Really? I'd think it would be quite difficult at first.
christine		 Well, it was. Difficult, I mean. But comfortable.
steele		I see they took a blood test.
christine		Wasserman Test. To check for syphilis. Apparently it can affect the mind.
steele		The idea that someone thinks you should be checked for syphilis...did that upset you?
christine		No. Not at all. I'm sure it's... standard procedure.
steele		Yes. Exactly. Standard procedure. We have to cover all bases, and --
christine		 However inappropriate that might be.
steele		According to your file, you believe the police have substituted a fake boy for your son. Is that true?
christine		I didn't say they substituted a fake boy, just...not the right boy.  They brought back the wrong boy. Not my son. He's still missing.
steele		That's strange...you see, I have here a newspaper article with a photo of you at the train station, welcoming your son home. That is you in the photo, isn't it? CHRISTINE Yes.
steele		So at first he was your son, but now he's not your son.  Has this been going on for a long time? People...changing, becoming something other than what they are?
christine		People don't change, doctor.
steele		You don't think people change?
christine		That's not what I --
steele		And the police...they're not out to persecute you?
christine		No.    Of course not.
steele		The police are here to protect us.
christine		That's right.
steele		That's odd, because according to the head nurse, when you were admitted you accused the police of conspiring to do this deliberately, to punish you. So either she and the interns are also conspiring against you...or you're changing your story.  Do you often have trouble telling reality from fantasy, Mrs. Collins?
ybarra		It's all right, I'll just see what he has to say so I can go home and get dry. Where is he?
administrator		Room seven.
ybarra		It's raining cats, dogs and democrats out there, so this better be worth it.
ybarra		Well?
sanford		Look, I -- this isn't easy, okay?
ybarra		Nothing is.
sanford		My cousin's Gordon Northcott. He owns the ranch where you found me. He let me live there in exchange for watching the place when he was gone, doing chores, stuff like that. Said I could stay on as long as I wanted to. I figured that also meant I could leave whenever I wanted to, but he wouldn't let me.
ybarra		Are you saying he held you prisoner?  Bull. When I got to the ranch you were running around free as a jaybird. Could've left any time you wanted. So what's this, some kind of story to cover why you were in the country illegally?
sanford		No...no, it's nothing like that.
ybarra		Because I don't have time for --
sanford		Listen to me, please.    He said --
ybarra		What?   What did he --
sanford		He said that if I tried to leave, he'd kill me! 
ybarra		Okay, lets start at the beginning. What did he make you do?
sanford		Him and me...me and Gordon, we...  ...we killed some kids.
sanford		I didn't mean to, I swear...he made me help him, said if I didn't he'd kill me, too. Please, you gotta help me...I'm scared...I don't want to go to Hell for killing kids.
ybarra		What kids?
sanford		I don't know...I never knew their names.
ybarra		How many kids? SANFORD All together?
sanford		About...twenty, I guess.
ybarra		You're lying.
sanford		No, it's true, I swear!
ybarra		Twenty kids.
sanford		Yeah...thereabouts...I kinda stopped counting after a while, and Gordon said one or two might've gotten away, but --
ybarra		Nobody can just up and kill twenty kids --
sanford		We did...yeah, we did that....
ybarra		How?
sanford		Most times we'd bring back just one or two...sometimes as many as three.
gordon		Time to go.
gordon		There you are, we've been looking for you like mad.
kid		You have?
gordon		Sure thing. Your folks, they got in an accident. They sent us to find you. They're hurt real bad. The police took 'em to the hospital, but they didn't have time to come find you, so we said we'd do it. Now come on, hurry...we gotta get to the hospital, see your folks.
gordon		Good boy! Now hold on, it's a long drive and we gotta fly.
sanford		Sometimes...sometimes he'd leave one or two of 'em alive...barely anyway...and tell me...finish 'em. Finish 'em...or I'll finish you.  And I did...I did...oh god...oh, sweet Jesus...I killed 'em...I killed 'em...I killed 'em....
ybarra		These...uhm...these kids...do you think...if you saw them again, do you think you'd recognize them?  Just a second.
ybarra		I haven't updated these in a while, but still, it should be....  Just go through...and if you see any faces you recognize, put it on the table.
ybarra		...shit.... The name on the back of the photo is WALTER COLLINS.
jones		Have you gone soft in the head, Les?
ybarra		Sir, I --
jones		He's playing you! He knows he's in trouble, so he's come up with some cock and bull story about how he was forced to stay in the country --
ybarra		With all due respect, sir, I don't think so. You didn't see him, the kid's scared half out of his mind --
jones		He picked the Collins kid! We found him, remember? Haven't you been reading the papers?  Or maybe you have, is that it?
ybarra		Sir, if you'd just listen --
secretary		I'm sorry, captain, but he's here again...that reverend, Briegleb. He's asking about Christine Collins.
jones		Tell the sonofabitch to get the hell off police property before I have him arrested for disturbing the peace.
secretary		I tried. He said he's not leaving... him, or his friends.
jones		What the hell...?
jones		Jesus jumped down....
jones		Ybarra? Listen. You're not to do anything except come back here.
ybarra		Sir, department policy requires that all allegations of homicide have to be investigated. And these are kids, for chrissakes --
jones		Departmental policy is what I say it is, you got that? Now I'm ordering you to get your ass back here with that kid, you got that? You bring him here and you talk to no one, got it? Nobody!
ybarra		All right, let's go.
briegleb		Are you Captain Jones?
jones		I am. BRIEGLEB What the hell have you done with Christine Collins? Don't try and lie your way out of it. I talked to several neighbors who saw her being driven off in a police car.
jones		Mrs. Collins has been placed in protective custody following a mental breakdown.
briegleb		A what?!
jones		Her statements and behavior have been found to be consistent with a delusional state of mind that could make her a danger to herself or others. In the public interest, we are looking after her son while she gets the help she clearly needs.
briegleb		Where?
jones		Sorry, we're withholding that information to respect the privacy of the family. But I can assure you that she's getting the best treatment available. That's all.
orderly		Go on.   Move up.
christine		What for? ORDERLY Medication.
christine		What kind of medication?
orderly		The kind that's good for you.    Help you relax.
christine		I don't want to relax...I'm fine, and I won't take something unless I know what it is!
nurse		Orderly --
christine		Just listen --
nurse		-- we can force-feed it to you if that's what you want.
christine		Doctor...Doctor Steele --
steele		I heard.
christine		I don't know what's going on, but I'm not taking anything until --
steele		I understand. Come with me.
christine		I don't have anything wrong with me that I should have to take medication.
steele		There's nothing wrong with you.
christine		That's right.
steele		You're fine.
christine		Yes.
steele		Then you shouldn't have any trouble signing this.
steele		By signing, you certify that you were wrong when you stated the boy returned by the police was not your son. It further stipulates that the police acted properly in sending you here for observation and absolves them of all responsibility for --
christine		I won't sign it.
steele		Then your condition is not improved.  Sign it, and you can be out of here first thing tomorrow.
christine		I won't sign it!
christine		I was not wrong! That boy is not my son! And I am not going to stop telling the truth about this! And you're not going to stop me, and the police aren't going to stop me --
steele		Mrs. Collins, you're becoming agitated.
christine		-- I will tear down the walls of this place with my bare hands if I have to, but one way or another -- STEELE Orderly!
steele		The patient is disturbed, hyperactive and is threatening the staff. See to it she is properly sedated.
christine		No!
christine		No, I won't let you!     Someone, please, help me!
steele		Stay out of this! This is none of your business!  This is police business! You'll stay out of it if you know what's good for you!
steele		You'd think you had enough trouble with the law just being a whore, wouldn't you?
steele		Attacking a staff member. Room eighteen. Electro-convulsive therapy.
christine		Carol!   No, leave her alone!    What're you --
christine		Carol....!
ybarra		It's all right, I'll take it from here.
officer		But --
ybarra		We need him for questioning.   Come on....
ybarra		You two...you've just been requisitioned for backup. I'll explain on the way.
christine		You shouldn't have done that.
carol dexter		 Wanted...to. Felt...good.
carol dexter		I lost...two babies...to back alley doctors...no choice....  Never had...the chance...to fight for them. You do. Don't stop.
christine		I won't...I won't.
carol dexter		Fuck them...and the horse...they rode in on.
christine		That's hardly appropriate language for a lady, now is it?
carol dexter		Hell, yeah...there are times...that's exactly the right thing to say.
christine		And when's that?
carol dexter		When you've got...nothing left to lose.
officer		All clear.
ybarra		All right.     Show me.
ybarra		This it?   You're sure?
ybarra		Dig.  You put 'em in the ground, you can take 'em out of the ground. Go on.
officer		Holy god....
ybarra		Call it in...get the coroner and every officer in a twenty mile radius here inside the hour. 
ybarra		You can stop now, son.  You can stop now. It's over. We can take it from here. It's over.
steele		Privacy, please.
steele		I see you've still been refusing medication, requiring force-feeding. I see they switched to a rubber tube. I hear that can quite uncomfortable.
steele		Six days, Mrs. Collins, and no progress. We may have to go to more...strenuous therapies.  Unless you're willing to prove you're doing better...by signing this.
christine		Fuck you....and the horse...you rode in on.
steele		Room eighteen.
briegleb		I WANT TO TALK TO SOMEBODY IN CHARGE! RIGHT NOW!
nurse		Sir, please --
briegleb		WHO'S IN CHARGE HERE!
steele		I'm head doctor on duty.   What's the problem?
briegleb		You the doctor who's got Christine Collins locked up in here? Intercut with:
steele		Sorry, we don't discuss our cases with anyone other than family --
briegleb		You'll damned well discuss this one with me!
steele		Sir --
briegleb		Read it!   Read it, damn you!
nurse		The doctor wants to see you.
steele		Mrs. Collins.
steele		One last time. Are you, or are you not, prepared to sign that letter?
christine		No.
steele		You're free to go.
christine		...what?
steele		Your clothes are in the next room. You can change there.
christine		Next door.
steele		That's right.  See to it.
steele		Christ....
carol dexter		You're getting out?
christine		I am out.
carol dexter		How --
christine		I don't know...but I couldn't go without saying goodbye --
carol dexter		Christine, don't be stupid, get out of here fast in case they change their mind.
christine		I will...but I want you to know: once I have my boy back, I'm coming 
carol dexter		You are crazy.
christine		Watch me.
briegleb		You give me every piece of paper you've got on this case, you hear me? Every piece!
briegleb		When does she come down?
news vendor		Hurricane hits West Palm Beach! Babe Ruth hits 53rd home run! Kids found murdered in Riverside!
news vendor		Biggest Crime in Los Angeles History!  Collins Boy Assumed Dead on Ranch!
christine		No...god...no....
officer		The chief will see you now.
davis		I don't know if you're aware of it, Captain, but I have an exceptionally good vocabulary. I'm a terror at Scrabble, crossword puzzles, but even I'm in awe of the vocabulary that the press and the city council have been exercising in reference to this department courtesy of the Christine Collins...incident.  Incompetent. Cowardly. Bullying. Reprehensible. Mendacious and invidious...those two courtesy of that prick Gustav Briegleb. Bonus words in Scrabble, both of them. Especially invidious. Hard to work that one into a conversation. But he managed it, all right.
jones		Sir, I --
davis		The key, of course, is the context in which words like this get used. You have to do that in scrabble, you know, when somebody challenges a word...show how it's used in a sentence. So "incompetent," as in --  And here: "So incompetent that they insisted they knew better than a mother the identity of her own child, forced him upon her, and then incarcerated her when she confronted them with evidence of their own reprehensible behavior." That was a two-fer. Incompetent and reprehensible in the same sentence. Guy must be a real terror at crossword puzzles.
davis		Captain, your handling of the Collins case has exposed this department to public ridicule. There is even the potential for civil and criminal liability. JONES Sir, nobody could have known what was going on up at that ranch. Not us, not the Sheriff's Department, the Marshall's Office...as for the Collins woman....  I'm still not convinced that her kid is among the victims up in Wineville.
davis		No?
jones		No, sir. 
davis		Maybe he was...which raises the obvious question: so what?
jones		Sir?
davis		The Mayor wants this to go away. I want this to go away. The way you do that is to stop insisting that Walter Collins was not among those kids killed up at that goddamned ranch. Because if the boy you brought back isn't Walter Collins, and he's not dead up at that ranch, then where the hell is he? People will want to know why we haven't found him. Why we aren't we doing our job.  But if, on the other hand, he is, or could be among those poor boys killed up in Wineville...then the inquiries stop. It's a momentary embarrassment that you'll have to live with...but better a short inconvenience than a lingering problem, wouldn't you say, Captain? Jones doesn't like it, but he swallows his pride.   Nods.
jones		Yes, sir.
davis		The boy's been gone for nearly a year. If he was going to be found, it would've happened by now. Whether he was up at that ranch or not, the truth is he probably is dead somewhere. Better his mother accepts that now rather than later, don't you think?
jones		Yes, sir.
davis		Good.    That'll be all, Captain.
jones		Sir, there's talk of an investigation by the police commission.
davis		Let me worry about the commission. But it wouldn't hurt to find out just who the fuck that kid is you brought back from De Kalb and why he did this, because the press bought into his bullshit same as we did. That we were all taken in by the scheming little bastard may help take some of the sting off this.
jones		My boys are working on it now, sir.
ybarra		Tough.
ybarra		What's your name?
ybarra		Walter Collins is dead.
ybarra		Look, let me explain something to you. Because of your lies, you've ruined a woman's life embarrassed the police department, and got the whole city up in arms over this.
ybarra		All right, if that's how you want it, then I guess we're done here.  Tell County Jail we're remanding him for trial.
ybarra		I told you, the real Walter Collins was murdered.
ybarra		By pretending to be Walter Collins, you're interfering in a police investigation of a kidnapping and murder. We can try you as an accomplice to murder after the fact.  Too bad. County Jail is a lot worse than juvenile hall or a foster home. A lot worse.
ybarra		Sanford Clark is a kid, too. Fifteen. But he's going to jail. All murderers and their accomplices go to jail. Everyone knows that.  Get him out of here. It's out of my hands now.
ybarra		Prove it.
ybarra		The boy's real name is Arthur Hutchins Junior, age twelve, a runaway from Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
jones		Did you check the wire services?
ybarra		Checks out. The report was filed by his divorced mother, who lives in Clinton, Iowa with the boy's grandmother. Apparently he didn't like living with the old lady, she didn't let him get away with the stuff he usually got away with, and one day...he up and left. JONES What about the man he showed up with at the diner?
ybarra		Just some drifter. The boy was hungry, ran into this guy who said he knew how to get some food and not have to pay for it. Only when they finished, he left the kid behind while he cut out. When the police picked him up, they started going through the wire reports about missing kids --
jones		And he overheard them say the name Walter Collins.
ybarra		Bingo.
jones		But why that one? I mean, of all the police departments he could've screwed up, why Los Angeles?
ybarra		I asked him the same question.
briegleb		How are you feeling?
christine		A little better, thanks. The sleep helped. Anything new outside?
briegleb		Nothing that can't wait until you're stronger. The police still have a car parked outside. They want to know what your next move is.
christine		I want to go home.
briegleb		And then?
christine		I've been giving that a great deal of thought ever since I got out of that...place. All those women, and what they did about Walter....  They're going to just keep on doing it, aren't they? Nothing's going to change...unless we make it change.
christine		I used to tell Walter, "Never start a fight...but always finish it." I didn't start this fight...but by god I'm going to finish it.
briegleb		It's dangerous, and you've already been through a great deal, Mrs. Collins. Right now you're sufficiently high-profile that the police will hesitate to come after you out in the open...but if they see their position threatened, that could change quickly.  Your life could be in danger.
christine		"Always finish it. Always."
rachel clark		Just a minute....
gordon		Hi, sis.
rachel clark		Gordon...I didn't know you were back in town.
gordon		Got in a couple of days ago, figured I'd surprise you. That okay?
rachel clark		Yes...yes, of course. Come on in.
gordon		Where's that little niece of mine?
rachel clark		She...went into town. Should be back this evening. Bob's here --
gordon		Good. Need to talk to him about staying on for a few days.
rachel clark		Staying --
gordon		Listen, can I use your bathroom? It's been a long ride and I could use a shower.
rachel clark		Of course.
mountie		Go around the other side!    Cut him off!
second mountie		Go on!   Get the bastard!
mountie		Screw this...I'm too old for this fightin' shit....
mountie		YOU...ARE UNDER...ARREST!
briegleb		Mrs. Collins, I want you to meet a friend of mine, Mr. Hahn.
christine		Hello. HAHN Mrs. Collins. My deepest condolences on your loss.
christine		Yes...of course.
christine		Mr. Hahn, was it?
hahn		Yes.
christine		I appreciate the sentiment, but so far they still haven't positively identified any of the...remains... as Walter's.
hahn		But he was identified, was he not?
christine		Yes, but...I guess I still can't accept it. It doesn't feel real to me.
hahn		It never does. I lost a daughter to polio five years ago. There's not a day goes by I don't think, I should mention this to Claudine... then I remember she's not here.
christine		I'm sorry.     Please, sit.
christine		I've been on the phone all day with the appointment secretary for the police commission. They won't let me testify at the hearing, or call witnesses. They say it's not necessary.
christine		Then we'll just have to hire a lawyer...bring a civil suit and try to get the City Council to call for a hearing by the Welfare Board.
christine		 I see....
hahn		Which is why I'm doing this pro bono.  It would be my honor to defend your honor, Mrs. Collins. In my fifteen years as a lawyer, I have never seen anyone fight as long or as hard as you have, in what is so clearly in the cause of justice.
christine		Of course. One thing, though. A personal favor. When we've finished here today, could you spare a few minutes to come with me downtown. HAHN Of course.     Where downtown?
nurse		Yes?   May I --
hahn		My name is S. S. 
nurse		I'm sorry, but the doctor in charge won't be in until tomorrow morning and --
hahn		Let me be clearer. Either you open those doors and produce the people named in that court order, or you will find yourself on the other side of those bars...without a key.
carol dexter		I knew you'd come...I knew you'd come back...I knew you'd come....
christine		It's all right...everything's going to be all right now....
reporter		Mr. Northcott, any comment on your arrest?
gordon		I'm feeling fine. 
reporter		How did you avoid capture?
gordon		Well, I didn't, did I? Didn't know anyone wanted me until just recently. Didn't even try. My luggage still has my initials on it.
another reporter		Did you know why the police were after you?
gordon		No, but I figured it would be best if I stayed out of it.
reporter		Anything to say to the parents of the children you murdered?
gordon		No comment.
cryer		So was this.
cryer		Subpoenas, requests for depositions, interrogatories...all courtesy of Mr. Hahn and his new client, Christine Collins. 
davis		Goddamnit....
cryer		I thought this was supposed to go away. This is an election year, I can't afford this kind of press.
davis		It is going away, sir.   I instructed Captain Jones --
cryer		I'm afraid falling on his sword and saying he made a mistake isn't going to be good enough, Chief. If we take him out of the picture for a while, it might help calm things down until the hearing's finished.  There are several people on the council who are planning to run against me, and they'd love to accuse me of allowing a renegade police force to operate with impunity.
cryer		Our friends in the press are having a field day with this mess. I'm getting five hundred phone calls, letters and telegrams a day demanding to know what the hell is going on at City Hall that we allow our police force to brutalize women and misplace children. Christ, all this picture needs now is for somebody to kick a puppy for the cameras.  This is a train, Chief, and we need to either get in front of it, or be run over by it.
davis		Mayor Cryer...I stand by my men. You know that.
cryer		I do. And you know where I stand. So the question is..are we going to stand together...or hang together?
mayor cryer		Gentlemen...gentlemen, please. As Mayor of Los Angeles, it is my duty to preserve the peace in our city, which has been disrupted by recent events in the case of Christine Collins. As a result, we have decided that Captain J. J. Jones of the Lincoln Heights Division is to be suspended from active duty, effective immediately.
reporter		What's the charge, Chief?
chief davis		The charge is conduct unbecoming an officer, and using improper and abusive language toward Mrs. Collins. It further charges that he exceeded his authority as a police officer by incarcerating Mrs. Collins on the alleged charge of insanity without sufficient cause.
reporter		Mayor Cryer, are you aware that the City Council has said it plans to open its own investigation into the Collins case?
mayor cryer		I've heard this, yes. But since one of the main purposes of such a hearing by the City Council would be to suspend Captain Jones, and since that action has now been taken, the question is moot.
reporter		Which makes it look like the only reason Jones is being suspended is to head off the City Council 
chief davis		I won't even dignify that question with a response. Good day.
cryer		Cheer up, Chief. That little show should take the wind out of their sails. By Monday, this issue will be as cold as yesterday's fish. Never underestimate the public's lack of attention and potential for apathy. Old news is dead news, you'll see.
christine		Reverend, what --
briegleb		Sorry to barge in so late, Mrs. Collins, but it took me a while to find the right people for the right job. These three gentlemen are members of my congregation who, before coming to the Lord, had lived lives of brutality, vice and crime. Now they are pledged to doing god's work...and if this isn't it, I don't know what is.
christine		I don't understand.
briegleb		People who bring charges against the police have a habit of 
christine		I see...well, I...thank you.   Can I get you anything?
briegleb		Since we don't plan on sleeping, coffee would be lovely.
briegleb		Traffic's getting heavy.   We'll go up Spring.
briegleb		Hold on.
briegleb		Start walking. Quickly.
christine		Where is all this traffic's coming from...? Briegleb glances back. The police car has popped its doors, and two trench-coated officers are getting out. Christine stops a man passing in the opposite direction.
christine		Excuse me, can you tell me what the problem is up ahead?
man		Didn't you hear? It's the biggest protest I've ever seen.
officer		Yeah...over that Collins broad, if you can believe that.
christine		He didn't mean...he couldn't mean --
christine		Oh...my....
thorpe		There are nearly one thousand people gathered in this chamber, more than have ever been in this room before.
thorpe		 I therefore ask you to refrain from demonstrations of any kind. We're all here because we want to find out the real facts in this case, and everybody is going to be heard if we have to sit here for a week.
second councilman		Mr. Thorpe, I don't see any other members of the Police Commission.
thorpe		That's odd...we specifically stipulated that we would begin our hearings with testimony from the police department. Are there any representatives of the Police Commission in the room?  Is Captain Jones here? Is there anyone here representing the police?
reporter		Mr. Chairman...Richard Thomas, The Evening Herald. Both the Police Chief and Captain Jones are in San Pedro for a police inspection at a station there. 
thorpe		Are you telling me they directly violated the wishes of the City Council? That they refused to attend a vital hearing so they could conduct a routine inspection in San Pedro? And what the hell is Jones doing at an inspection after being suspended?  I hate to call a recess before we've even started, but I think a few phone calls are in order. So we'll take a half hour break, then continue with the witnesses who have appeared here today. But let it be known that Captain Jones and Police Chief Davis will be subpoenaed and required to appear here tomorrow morning.
hahn		Mrs. Collins, could you come across the street with me for just a moment?
christine		But...shouldn't we --
hahn		I think there's something you should see. Puzzled, curious, Christine gets up and exits with Hahn.
hahn		-- the police decided it was best to keep this off the main docket in order to avoid exactly the sort of chaos we have across the street.
bailiff		All rise.
gordon		Hey...I saw you in the papers. You got a lot of moxie, standing up to the police like that.
judge		Gordon Stewart Northcott, you have been charged with three counts of murder in the first degree, with an additional seventeen counts under review by the district attorney's office. How do you plea?
gordon		Not guilty, your honor.
judge		In light of the defendant's penchant for international travel, no bail will be set. This court will receive preliminary motions by tomorrow morning, with a trial date to be set for the earliest opening on the court's calendar.  The defendant is remanded into custody. Bailiff....
jones		We then instituted a nationwide search. On July 10, we received a cable indicating that a boy matching his description had been found in De Kalb, Illinois. Upon questioning, he admitted to being Walter Collins, and we made arrangements to transport him back to California.
hahn		Where Mrs. Collins told you the boy was not her son.
jones		Yes. She denied his identity in spite of all evidence pointing to the contrary.
hahn		But as subsequent events have demonstrated, she was correct. So what prompted you to send her for psychological evaluation?
jones		Whether or not this was in fact the correct boy was not relevant to my decision. Throughout this period, she acted strangely. She was often cool, aloof and unemotional, especially when presented with the boy we located in De Kalb, and in our subsequent conversations. It was because of her disturbing behavior that I submitted her for observation to the psychopathic ward of Los Angeles County General Hospital.
hahn		Just like that. You snap your fingers and an innocent woman is thrown into the psycho ward.
jones		She wasn't --
hahn		Every home in this state is in grave danger when a Police Captain can take a woman into his office and, five minutes later, have her thrown into the psychopathic ward on his own authority!
jones		 She wasn't --
hahn		What was that, Captain?
jones		She wasn't thrown.     She was... escorted.
hahn		Escorted, thrown, the verb doesn't matter, Captain. What does matter is that her incarceration was ordered without a warrant.
hahn		I am holding a carbon copy of the affidavit of insanity that was issued in the case of the State of California vs. Christine Collins. Who signed the affidavit?
jones		I did.
hahn		And what is the date on this document?
jones		September 12th.
hahn		But Mrs. Collins was incarcerated on September 6th.
jones		The form is backdated.
hahn		Yes, so it would appear. The bottom of the page is reserved for recording where and when the warrant was served. But it has not been filled in. May I assume from this that the warrant was never served?
jones		That's correct. There was no need to serve the warrant since she was at that time already in custody.
hahn		Let me see if I have this straight. A woman was thrown into the psychopathic ward without a warrant, because no warrant existed, and when it was finally written six days later, there was no need to sign it or go to a judge because 
jones		Technically...yes.
jones		Extraordinary steps were necessary because we were dealing with an extraordinary situation! Is it our fault that we were being deceived by the boy who claimed to be Walter Collins? No. In light of his claims and her behavior, who wouldn't begin to wonder if there was something wrong with her?
hahn		Because she questioned you.
jones		Because she wouldn't listen, because she insisted on being obstinate and taking matters into her own hands best left to qualified officers, because --
hahn		Because she was fighting for the life of her son! A boy who may have still been alive while you were wasting valuable time denying you had done anything wrong!
hahn		And in the end, that's what happened, isn't it? At some point, while all this was going on, Walter Collins died along with as many as nineteen other youths on the Northcott Ranch in Wineville. Is that correct, Captain?
jones		Yes.   It is.
hahn		No further questions.
chief davis		-- so after much effort, we were able to identify this boy, who was has been responsible for so much recent trouble, as Arthur Hutchins of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Between this, and the arrest of the man suspected of murdering the real Walter Collins, we have cleared up two of the biggest mysteries in the history of Los Angeles.  I hope that you gentlemen of the press will give as much space to the good things we do as the mistakes that are made on rare occasions.
chief davis		Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the boy's real mother, Mrs. Janet Hutchins.
mother		I hope he hasn't been too much trouble for you.
chief davis		Oh, no, not at all....
wright		Mrs. Hutchins...Mrs. Collins, the woman he was staying with, wanted him to have these. They're the clothes she let him wear.
mother		Well, thank you. Isn't that nice, Arthur? Tell the nice officer thank you.
davis		Precocious little fellow, isn't he?
chief davis		There...blame the police for your own mistakes. We've seen a lot of that lately, haven't we?
christine		I'm up here, Reverend.
christine		When Walter was...when he was here, I'd walk past his bedroom when he was asleep, and even if I couldn't see him, or hear him, I could...feel him in here.
christine		That's why I don't think Walter is dead. I can still feel him, in this room.
christine		I know what the police said. But the remains...what they found on that ranch is so...most of it can't even be properly identified. What if that boy made a mistake when he picked Walter's picture?
christine		Maybe. And maybe he'd want me to keep looking. Maybe he's waiting for me, somewhere.
thorpe		This Committee has now heard all of the testimony, and in light of the facts presented, issues the following statement.
judge		Mr. Foreman, has the jury reached a verdict?
foreman		We have, your honor.
thorpe		While the City Council has no power to directly remove commissioners or 
judge		Bailiff, will you bring me the verdict of the jury?
thorpe		Second, we recommend that the suspension of Captain Jones be made permanent.
judge		Will the defendant please rise?
thorpe		Third, that steps be taken to investigate a change in the prevailing laws and procedures by 
judge		You may read the verdict.
foreman		We the jury find the defendant, Gordon Stewart Northcott...guilty on all counts of murder in the first degree.
judge		Does the defendant wish to make a statement before judgment is passed?
gordon		Yeah, I want to make a statement. I want to make it real clear that I never once got a fair shake from you, your "honor," or this court. The only one of you here worth a goddamn is her --  -- 'cause she's the only one never badmouthed me to the press. She understands what it is when the police frame you for something you didn't do and throw you in the hole. Isn't that right?
gordon		I want you to know, Mrs. Collins, I never killed your boy. I --
judge		That's enough! Counsel, you will get control of your client or I will have him bound and gagged.
judge		Gordon Stewart Northcott, it is the judgment of this court that you will be conveyed to San Quentin Prison, where you will be held in solitary confinement for a period of two years, until October 2nd, 1930. On that date, you are to be hanged by the neck until dead. May god have mercy on your soul.
chief davis		-- no, as I said after the hearing, I have every intention of finishing my term as Chief of the Los Angeles Police Department. I will not resign. I will fight to the finish. The Collins case was merely an excuse for certain politicians who have been trying to have me removed for some time, and I --
chief davis		-- anyway, I remain confident that the Mayor's office will stand firmly behind me. That's all.
christine		Ten minute break?
christine		We'll see.     Thanks, Ben.
christine		Yes, hello, this is Christine Collins, we spoke yesterday about my son...fine, thank you. I was wondering if you'd had a chance to go through the file on runaways in your area in case anyone resembling Walter had --  I see. No, thank you, I appreciate the information. Would it be all right if I called you again, in a month or so? Thank you. Goodbye.
hahn		Mrs. Collins.
christine		Oh, hello, I was just --
hahn		I know. That's...why I wanted to see you.
hahn		It's about Walter. We had...well, we received a very strange telegram.
christine		From who?
hahn		Gordon Northcott.   He's...he's asked to see you.
christine		Why?
hahn		He said he knows you're still looking for your son, and before he dies --  He says that he lied when he testified that he didn't kill Walter. He's willing to finally admit that he did it. He says that if you come up to see him, in person...he'll tell you the truth, to your face...so that you can get on with your life and have some peace.
prison guard		I can stay in the room if you want, ma'am.
christine		No, I'm...sure I'll be fine.
prison guard		All right...I'll be right outside the door if you need anything.  Twenty minutes.
gordon		Don't suppose you've got a cigarette?
christine		No, I don't smoke.
gordon		That's where they do it, you know. That building right over there.
christine		That's where they do what?
gordon		The hangings. Ten o'clock tonight, I get to see what's inside. I hear there's thirteen steps going up to the gallows...'cause thirteen is unlucky. Helps make sure you're gonna go to hell when you die. But I got 'em beat. I outsmarted 'em.
gordon		They're gonna let me have whatever I want for dinner. Got a steak coming, with spinach, mashed potatoes and green beans. I always wondered why they did that whole last meal thing. One of the other guys on Death Row said when you take the drop, you foul yourself, and everything you ate...comes out the other end. So maybe that's why they make sure you got something in you when it happens. They like knowing you fouled yourself on the way to --
gordon		Sure you don't got a cigarette?
christine		Mr. Northcott...you asked me to come to see you. You said if I did, you would tell me the truth about my son. Well, I'm here.
gordon		Yeah...yeah, you are. But see, the thing is, I didn't think you'd really come, and now --
christine		Now what?
gordon		I didn't expect....  I don't want to see you.
christine		What?
gordon		I can't do this...I can't talk to you...not today, not tonight, not with what they're going to do to me. It's one thing to send a telegram, that's easy, but right now, right here, in person, I --  I can't tell you what you want to hear, Mrs. Collins. I can't, I can't --
christine		Why not?
gordon		Because I don't want to die with a lie on my lips!
gordon		I did my penance, I asked God to forgive me for my sins...and I've been good, ever since...if I commit a sin now, if I lie now...I'm out of time, I can't be forgiven again... I don't want to go to hell --
christine		Mr. Northcott...look at me.  Look at me.
christine		Did you...kill...my son?
gordon		Get away from me...I don't know anything about it!
christine		Mr. Northcott --
gordon		I'm innocent!  Guard! Guard!
christine		No, wait, please --
prison guard		It's okay, ma'am, they always get a little nuts the day of.
christine		Did you kill him? Did you kill my son?
christine		Mr. Northcott...Mr. Northcott!
dissolve to:		INT. EXECUTION AREA - NIGHT
warden		Gordon Stewart Northcott, you have been found guilty of murder, the penalty for which is death by hanging. There have been no stays or reprieves, therefore the execution will go forward as stipulated under the laws of the State of California. Do you have any last words?
gordon		No...nothing.  I kept clean after I confessed, reverend...just like I said I would.
gordon		Will it...will it hurt?  Please...not so fast...don't make me walk so fast!
gordon		Thirteen steps...thirteen steps... but I didn't touch all of 'em, you bastards...I didn't touch all of 'em!
gordon		Silent night...holy night...all is calm...all is bright...round yon virgin mother and child...holy infant so tender and mild --
operator		Hey, Chris...we're having an Oscar party tonight at my apartment, you want to come? CHRISTINE I can't...I've got a million forms to fill out --
operator		C'mon, please, they can wait --
christine		Sandy, you guys blew out the phone lines between here and Baltimore, someone has to clean up the mess, and that's me. Besides, I've got a radio right here, I can follow the whole thing.
operator		You're sure?
christine		Positive.    Go on, have fun.
christine		I said I can't go --
christine		Ben, that's very sweet, and I wish I could...but I really need to stay and finish this.
christine		Ben...? I put down two dollars on "It Happened One Night" for best picture. Seems I'm the only one here who thinks it has a chance against "Cleopatra." If I win, how about we have dinner tomorrow night to celebrate? MR. HARRIS You've got a deal, Christine.   Good night.
christine		'Night.
christine		I'll be here.
christine		Over-rated....
christine		Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert.   I rest my case.
christine		 I knew it...I knew it!   I told you so!
christine		Ben, it looks like dinner is on me, I --
christine		Yes, this is she. Mrs. Clay? No, of course I remember you, how are you? Is everything --
christine		When? Where did they --  No, of course...I'll be right there.
christine		Are they sure it's --
christine		But how --
ybarra		All right, so after you got into the car, what happened next?
david		They drove me around for a long time, then we ended up at this ranch --
gordon		SHUT UP!  I'll see you boys later....
ybarra		Walter.
david		Yeah.
ybarra		Do you remember his last name?
david		Collins.
ybarra		So if you only remember some of the names of the rest, how come you remember his full name?
david		Because of what happened.
walter		We gotta try it!
jeffrey		We have to get out of here!
walter		I'm not. I'm not afraid of anything.  Don't you want to go home? Don't you want to see your mom again?
jeffrey		Anybody else?
jeffrey		Okay. Anybody who doesn't want to come, get over at that end in case this comes down.
jeffrey		When we get out, we split up, go in different directions, they can't catch all of us. Ready? They nod, and get into position, each taking a part of the wire framework.
jeffrey		Pull!
jeffrey		Go!
david		Help!
david		Hurry!
david		That's the last I saw of any of 'em.
ybarra		So you don't know if either of the other two were captured?
david		No. All I know is, if he hadn't come back for me...I don't think I ever would've gotten out of there.
ybarra		What happened after that?
david		I hid in the woods for two days, too scared to move, because I was sure they'd find me. I finally started walking, but every time a car came up I was afraid it was them. So I kept off the main roads until I saw a train stopped at a crossing, and I jumped in.
ybarra		Why didn't you tell anyone what had happened?
david		I was afraid! I thought they'd come after me, or my folks...so I didn't tell anybody. I was on my own until I got a free meal from this lady, Mrs. Lansing. I told her I was an orphan, on my own. She said I could stay on, and...I did.  Every night, I'd wake up, thinking they were right outside my window. Then I heard the police talking on the radio about what happened at the ranch, and I thought, for sure I can't go back now.
ybarra		Why not?
david		Since I didn't tell anybody what happened, I was afraid they'd blame me for those kids being dead. So I just...stayed away.
ybarra		So what made you come forward now, after all this time?
david		I miss my mom...I miss my dad...I just...I just want to go home.
ybarra		Still can't believe it. Five years, case closed, everyone thinks he's dead...and there he is. 
christine		I am.
ybarra		You don't think he's still out there, do you?
christine		Why not? Three boys made a run for it that night, Detective. If one got out, maybe either or both of the others did too. Maybe Walter went through the same fears he did. Afraid to come home or identify himself, afraid he'd get into trouble, that people might think it was his fault. Either way, it gives me something I didn't have before tonight.
ybarra		What's that?
christine		Hope.
fade out:		THE END
****Dialogues from script :Chaos.txt****

shooting script		March 15th, 2004
karen cross		... Police on scene are approaching the suspect. They're at the center of the Bridge now.
jenkins		In a civilized society, the men and women entrusted with serving and protecting the community are to be held accountable just like everyone else. Simply put... Just because you are a cop, doesn't mean laws don't apply to you. This is no longer the wild, wild west.
karen cross		This same review board last week found Quentin Conners, Det. York's partner, "not responsible" for the same shooting. He remains on suspension without pay.  3B   INT.   LIVING ROOM - CONNERS APARTMENT - NIGHT                    3B  Conners turns off the TV, lays the remote next to a PHOTO of Conners and a YOUNG WOMAN  during happy times. He stares at the photo, finishes his drink.  FADE TO BLACK.  END OPENING CREDITS.  4    EXT.   SEATTLE - DAY - ESTABLISHING                               4  A COOL, CRISP Pacific Northwestern day. MOUNT RAINIER looms in the distance. The SPACE NEEDLE overlooks downtown. While the sun shines now, the OVERCAST SKY on the horizon FORESHADOWS AN IMPENDING STORM. In the heart of the city...  5    EXT.   AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK - DAY                               5  An IMPRESSIVE STRUCTURE on a BUSY CITY CORNER. TRAFFIC, street and pedestrian, go about their business.  ACROSS THE STREET...   A BLACK TRUCK screeches to a stop.  6    INT.   BLACK TRUCK - DAY                                          6  LORENZ, 40's, sits behind the steering wheel. His EYES cold, merciless. He's joined by FOUR OTHER MEN, ALL BLACK CLAD - HEAVILY ARMED with BODY ARMOR!  Lorenz stares out at the bank, a last moment of peace. Simultaneously, ALL FOUR DOORS OPEN and...  7    EXT.   AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK - DAY                               7  Lorenz and the Black Clad exit, quickly cross the street, heading for the bank! Each carries a LARGE BLACK BAG.  7A   INT.   LOBBY - AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK                             7A  PATRONS in line, wait impatiently. A SECURITY GUARD in the corner yawns. TELLERS count out cash, access accounts on COMPUTERS.  GRAINY SECURITY CAMERA IMAGES depict an average, business day. THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM. 
loren		Drop to the floor! Slowly! No sudden moves!  You! Hands on heads, drop to your knees. Now! Do it!
lorenz		That... you don't want to do.
lorenz		Y'all picked the wrong day not to use the ATM. 
lorenz		No one will say I didn't give you a choice.
lorenz		You, up.  You understood what I just said?
bank manager		Yes.
lorenz		Your security system, you can electronically lock all entrances...
bank manager		Yes.   Right-right away.
lorenz		With that attitude, you and I are going to get along famously. Now go.
bank manager		It's done.     We're locked down.
jenkins		Have you seen my watch?
jenkins		This was fun. You should get out of bed. You'll be late for work.
lorenz		What do you think you're doing?
lorenz		It would've made more sense to shoot him before he pushes the fucking alarm. Not after.  Jesus.
lorenz		And... If you're going to do something.  Do it right.
lorenz		 Get these people out of the way.
teddy		 This is Detective Galloway.
callo		 I want all points of entry identified and covered. We need SWAT here now. Have emergency crews standing by!
callo		Set a perimeter.    Move'em back.
callo		Portland.
dax		We have them on the line.
dax		We're hot.
callo		 This is Detective Callo, Seattle P.D. Who am I speaking with?
lorenz		No questions. It's time to set the rules. I am in complete control of this facility. No one gets in or out without my say and I will execute every last man, woman and child in here if my needs are not met. Do not test me. Today, I am a man of zero patience.
callo		I'm listening.
lorenz		See if you can't screw this up, Detective... I have but one demand. One and only demand.
conners		Do you have a warrant?
jenkins		I need to speak to you, Quentin.
conners		There's where your shit out of luck because I don't need to speak to you.
jenkins		It's important.
jenkins		Quentin, this is Detective Shane Dekker.
conners		Huh? You don't look like much of a Detective.
dekker		Funny. I was going to say the same about you.
conners		Charming.
jenkins		Shane just transferred in from Tacoma.      His father...
conners		Save your breath. I really don't care.
conners		Why don't we can the chit-chat.    Get to what's on your mind.
jenkins		We've got a hostage situation, American National Bank. The sonsabitches said they wouldn't talk to anyone but you.
conners		No shit?
jenkins		No shit.   I need you to do this.
conners		Why should I?
dekker		Because people's lives are at stake. That takes priority over your ego.
conners		 Saying I did want to help... I'm still suspended or did that slip your mind?
jenkins		The commissioner's office has ordered me to reinstate you. As of now, you're back on the force.
conners		Just like that?
jenkins		Just like that.  I won't, however, unleash you alone.
conners		Always a catch.
jenkins		Shane, here, is your new partner. Consider him a younger version of me, looking over your shoulder, watching every move you make.
jenkins		Don't think I endorse this. If it were my call, you'd be with your partner...
conners		You mean ex-partner.
jenkins		... On the unemployment line with him.
conners		For a moment there, I thought you cared.
jenkins		I care about those innocent people down there. I hope to God someone hasn't made a monumental mistake letting you back in.
conners		I appreciate the words of encouragement and the confidence you have in me. I look forward to the continuing, positive relationship we've shared in the past.
karen cross		Detective Conners? Detective, can we have a few words?
conners		I'll give you two...  Cunt made her career off me.
conners		Teddy, Vincent...  ... Nice to see you both.
jenkins		Conners has been reinstated to full active duty. It's his scene.
callo		The last hostage situation this guy headed, an innocent civilian died.
conners		I was not responsible...
callo		You never are. That girl would be alive today if it weren't for your cowboy antics. You destroy lives.
conners		Fuck you. Look who's talking about destroying lives.
jenkins		Decision's been made, Bernie.
callo		I was first on scene and I have seniority.  Don't do this, Martin.
jenkins		We'll talk about it later.   Take a hike.
callo		 Fine. I'll watch this train wreck from home.
conners		 I'm going to miss him.
jenkins		SWAT, because of the special circumstances will defer to Conners. He's in charge.
vincent		First time I've heard SWAT defer to anyone.
jenkins		 Second chances don't come around often. Don't blow it.
jenkins		Anything questionable happens today, you let me know.
dekker		Yes, Captain.
teddy		Looks like you got yourself a baby- sitter.
vincent		We have approximately four to seven, heavily armed men holding an unspecified number of customers and employees hostage.
conners		You're just a wealth of knowledge, aren't you?
teddy		Witnesses heard shots fired and some kind of explosion. And their only demand has been to speak with you.
conners		I'm sure it won't be the last. Get me a line into the bank. Let's see what they really want.
lorenz		 Detective Conners?
conners		Who am I speaking with?
lorenz		For now...     You can call me Lorenz.
conners		Okay, Lorenz, how are we doing in there? Can we get you anything? Food, medical supplies. We heard an explosion.
lorenz		Everyone who matters is fine. Of course, I would've preferred not having the authorities involved at all. We weren't planning to be here this long. But, since Seattle's finest needs a presence on the scene, I'm glad it's you.
conners		My fame proceeds me.
lorenz		Don't be flattered. I needed someone who's been through the experience before. Hopefully this time it will go better for all involved. I plan on living a full, long and rich life. I didn't, however, expect them to find you so quickly. I thought you were suspended.
conners		I was, but I'm back.   You're information's old.
lorenz		You never get what you pay for.  You want to know about the hostages? How many and are they okay?
conners		Yes.
lorenz		Approximately forty, they're fine, considering. All except one. We had a situation.
conners		Someone's dead?
lorenz		Theory... put to practice isn't always perfect. Can't expect to keep the hostages in check if a bad deed goes unpunished or they may... randomly decide to revolt. Chaos... has some order to it.  Detective? Are you still with me?
conners		What else will I be looking for?
lorenz		Demands... Probably too much to ask for you and your colleagues to pack up and go home?
conners		Safe to say.
lorenz		Stay by the phone.    I'll contact you shortly.
conners		Lorenz...
lorenz		Don't worry, I have no plans until sunrise tomorrow, so hunker down. It's going to be a long one.
conners		Wait, we're talking here...
lorenz		Patience, Detective. We don't want another Pearl Street Bridge, do we?
dax		He's off.
karen cross		This standoff is approaching two hours now. We've been told Detectives have made contact with the perpetrators inside the bank. Whether any specific demands have been made, we cannot confirm. As soon as we know something, we'll pass it on to you. Reporting live, Karen Cross, channel two news.
karen cross		Who the hell writes this shit?
conners		 Try again.
dax		He's not picking up.
conners		 Try again.
conners		 Where's our fearless Captain?
dekker		Went uptown to brief the Commissioner.
conners		So you're here in his place.
conners		Nicotine gum.
teddy		 You quit smoking?
conners		Caffeine, too, if you must know.  What? A man's capable of change.
teddy		A man, yes. You...     I'm not so sure.
conners		Don't worry, I still have a vice or two.
dax		Fifteen rings.    No answer.
conners		Try again in five.
teddy		What are they doing in there?
vincent		Wasting our time.
conners		Precisely. He knows police protocol, not to mention the shit in our own precinct. He's disguising his voice, means he's got a record and has done this before. He's heavily armed and well-connected. He knows he's surrounded. He hasn't asked for a damned thing. He drops that hint about sunrise, prepping us for a long wait. He's buying time. Why?
vincent		 To figure out his next move.    He wasn't expecting us.
dekker		No, he wasn't expecting you. He said, he thought you were still suspended.
conners		Probably thought it would take the whole day for you to find me. Giving him the time he needs.
teddy		He's stalling.
dekker		He almost has what he came for.
conners		Or... he's got what he came for and he's waiting for his ticket out of here.  We're going in.
teddy		What?
conners		The bank has three points of entry. Teddy and Vincent, take a SWAT Team, head to the West side. We'll have the SWAT Commander take the East. Dekker, you're with me. Where is the SWAT Commander?
vincent		I'll find him.
teddy		 That's a big call, Quentin.   Thought about what you're doing?
conners		You questioning me, Teddy?
teddy		Unfortunately... yeah.
conners		I question how you can fuck that asshole and still manage to look in the mirror.
teddy		I'm not going to get into this now. And you're one to talk. I hear...
conners		 The hostages are in imminent danger. They've confessed to killing someone, an automatic murder one charge - that's a life sentence, maybe a needle for all of them. So why keep witnesses around to testify? Longer we wait, the greater the risk. We need to go in. Now.
teddy		 Okay.
swat commander		I got snipers up top and ten soldiers on the ground.
conners		What's the best way in?
swat commander		Tear gas, blow the doors...
conners		Hold on. No explosives. I got forty civilians in there, too great a chance.    Any other way?
swat commander		There's no pussy way in. The doors are locked electronically from the inside. We ain't getting in without force.
conners		 What if we cut the power? That will disable the system and we can open the locks manually, come in that way?
swat commander		 That'll work.
conners		So we'll take the pussy way, Commander. We cut the power and go in at 11:15 sharp!
teddy		The bank's equipped with emergency generators, which once the power's down, will kick back on in approximately 3-6 minutes.
conners		It will be over before that. Commander, your men in position?
swat commander		Standing by.
conners		I will call for the power to be cut. Once down, wait for my signal and enter. No one moves until I give the "go", understood?
conners		You have done this before, right? Wait... I don't want to know.
lorenz		They're comin'.
conners		 Let's go around the horn.
teddy		One, check.
swat commander		Two, check.
conners		Here we go... Cut the power.
conners		Doors!
lorenz		 Now!
conners		 Hold it. What just happened?
dekker		 Holy shit...?!
swat commander		We're going in!
conners		No.    Do not go in.   It's a trap!
conners		 SONOFABITCH!
swat commander		On my count... One... two... three...
dekker		 Round up all the hostages, anyone that comes out, grab'em!
conners		 The rest of you, come with us.
conners		 Check the back.
conners		 See anyone come your way?
vincent		No.   No one went by me.
swat commander		Detectives... We found these.
conners		We let them walk right past us.
conners		SHIT!
vincent		We got the one Teller dead, the two that were strung up are alive, but in critical condition. A few SWAT incurred 2nd degree burns, but that's the worst of it. Now, depending on who you talk to... there was anywhere from five to nine perps. And nobody got a good look at any of'em, wore their masks the whole time. Dax is rounding up the security tapes now. That should give us a firm number.
conners		I want background checks on every hostage. They're all suspects until they're not.
vincent		You don't think one of them's still here?
conners		After this, nothing would surprise me.
dekker		Excuse me... I need to listen to the conversation between Lorenz and Conners again?
dax		It'll have to wait.
dekker		How long?
dax		Hour.   Maybe more.
dekker		 Show me how to play it myself?
dax		Look, this isn't how it works. I don't take orders from you. I don't know you and NO ONE touches my stuff. You're going to have to wait.
dax		What the hell are you doing?
dekker		Along with whatever they stole and this war zone they left behind... A man's dead, and the killers are running free. I don't have time to wait.  I'll figure it out. Thanks for your help.
dax		 Here. This DAT machine. Play, stop, rewind... It's just like using a tape player. Headphones are jacked in. Tape's already inside.
dekker		Thank you.
conners		 What's with this one?
dax		That's the camera in the vault.      It blew in the first explosion.
dax		That's when you cut the power.
conners		So we can't ID them.
dax		There's a four minute, fifty-two second gap, before the image returns. But...
conners		They're long gone by then.  Go to the head of the tapes, from when they first went in. Document each move they've made for the two hours they were inside.
dax		You got it. Hey... Awful lotta news cameras outside. Maybe one got a look at them coming out?
conners		 Have Vincent check it out.
teddy		Conners, you better come out here.
conners		 Shit. Feds.
jenkins		Detective Conners, join us, would you?
agent doyle		Prince Amar Alle Alban is one of the wealthiest and least popular Arabs in the Middle East. There's been countless threats on his life and fortune in the past. But for better of worse... he is an ally to the United States. The Prince keeps a safe deposit box in twenty institutions 
teddy		What was in the box?
bank manager		We don't keep records. The boxes are private. Since 9/11, we screen for live tissue, viruses or explosives, but if it passes those tests, we don't ask.
conners		This is all real fascinating shit, but what about the money? Bank robbers still like cash, don't they?
bank manager		The cash drawers don't appear touched. Neither does the cash vault.
teddy		So they broke into a bank and didn't steal any money?
agent doyle		We believe the Prince's box was the target. We're trying to reach him now.
jenkins		Thank you.
jenkins		Helluva come back, Conners. Are you familiar with the term franchise-sized fuck-up...
conners		Depends, are we talking about your sex life? Because I've heard shortcomings.
jenkins		You got played, Quentin. Congratulations, you just topped Pearl Street Bridge.
teddy		That's not fair. It was by the book. Everything was according to standard procedure.
conners		You came to me. I didn't ask for this.
jenkins		Commissioner's office is scrambling to cover their ass. They need a scapegoat... And I have zero problems serving you up.
conners		You wanted this to happen.
jenkins		No. But if it had to happen to somebody.
dekker		I think this Lorenz was trying to tell us something.
conners		You don't say.
dekker		The way he spoke... he paused before certain words. Have you ever heard of the Chaos Theory?
conners		What?
dekker		Edward Lorenz invented the Chaos Theory in the 1960's. It's the study of phenomena that appear random, but in fact have an element of regularity which can be described mathematically.
conners		 Try that again?
dekker		Pretty much... initial state of events may seem unrelated and random, but eventually patterns emerge and in the end all the pieces fit together.
waitress		Anything else, officers?
conners		That'll be all.  You're a College boy. Which one? Someplace I've heard of or one of those inbred state schools no one's heard of?
dekker		U Dub.
conners		Not exactly Princeton, but not bad. How did you end up on the force?
dekker		It's kind of the family business.
conners		Family business? What, your Dad, Dad's Dad and so on and so back?
dekker		Do we really need all this "get to know you" crap? Couple hours ago you didn't give a shit.
conners		You've grown on me. Besides, I am entrusting my life to you. I should know something about you. I would 
dekker		I know about you, Detective.      Everyone does.
conners		You don't say that with much enthusiasm.
dekker		Not much to be enthusiastic about.
conners		Listen, my reputation often proceeds me. You, however, have no reputation; a fact I need to deal with. After you've been through the shit I have, then you can judge me. Now... we can try to work together, make the best of a bad situation or we can compare Dick sizes all day... Up to you. But since this is your first day here... today... mine's bigger.
conners		 Go.
conners		Lastly... I don't like the Pac-10. It's overrated. I'm an Ivy League guy.
karen cross		 Detective... Can't keep away from me, can you?
vincent		Watch.
conners		 Well, that explains you.
vincent		 Okay. There. Stop.
vincent		Damon Richards. Career loser. Busted him two years ago on attempted robbery of the Western Federal Bank. Stupid bastard. Never learns.
dekker		What's he doing back on the street?
vincent		He gave up his partners and cut a deal with the D.A.
teddy		Gotta love the system.
conners		Got an address?
vincent		Only thing on file is in Spokane, but I recall he did have a girlfriend in town. Gina, I believe.
vincent		Gina, it's the police.    Open up.
vincent		 We can hear you.
conners		 Step back. Clear the door.     Now.
teddy		QUENTIN!
teddy		 Shots fired, officer down!      Need an ambulance and back up.
dekker		You hit?
conners		 I'm fine.
dekker		 FREEZE!
dekker		Stay down!
dekker		Control her!
dekker		 Suspect fleeing on foot. North on Curson. He's armed and dangerous.      I'm in pursuit.
dekker		I'm a police officer in pursuit of a murder suspect. I need your bike, now!
the biker		 It's all yours.
richards		I want... my... lawyer.
teddy		 He's unconscious, with a nice knot on his forehead, but stable. Three officers are watching the room.
conners		He wakes, they call.  Hey Quincy, give it a rest, I'm fine.
paramedic		 Quincy was a coroner. You may have a cracked rib. You should go to the hospital.
conners		I should do a lot of things.
teddy		You sure you're all right?
conners		I'm fine.
dekker		Girl's name is Gina Lopez, twenty- eight. Done some time for possession, has two kids... Am I interrupting?
conners		No.
teddy		Excuse me.
dekker		Gina claims she doesn't know anything about a bank robbery.
conners		Of course she doesn't.   Vincent!
conners		Have'em put Ms. Lopez in interrogation one and turn the A/C on full. Leave her alone and cold. Let me know when her nipples can cut glass.
vincent		Will do.  Detective... I didn't realize when we first met who you were. I worked with your father. It was only for a brief time when I first got outta the academy, but it was an honor.
conners		 Your father was Harry Dekker?
vincent		I wish it could've been for longer.
dekker		Thanks.
conners		 That was some fancy riding.    You have a bike?
dekker		Used to, but I sold it.  They're dangerous.
marnie		Detectives. Ready for you.
conners		Somebody going on a trip?
marnie		Looks like it, don't it?
conners		Marnie, you're looking well.
marnie		Heard you were back, Conners... and keep dreaming.
marnie		 You, on the other hand... I gotta bike myself. Maybe we can go for a ride sometime? Or maybe I can just ride you.
conners		Can we get back to work?
marnie		We got passports, sun tan lotion, Bermuda shorts, thong bikini, hopefully hers and this...
dekker		Must be a fifty large there easy.    His cut?
marnie		You'd think, right?
dekker		It's not?
marnie		Don't put words in my mouth, but... Two things jump out here. First, each bank branch has their own money bands. This is not American National's. After a little checking, it belongs to Pacific Savings of Seattle.
dekker		That sounds familiar.
marnie		It should. Four months ago, a half million dollars was stolen in an armed robbery there. Just a smash-n-grab job. They caught the guys a day later, recovering about $400,000. Those guys have been in lock up since and their trial's still pending. Which leads us to point number two. Do you smell that?
dekker		 What is it?
marnie		When evidence is taken in, any physical contact might affect the ability to lift prints, so, to mark it, we now spray a scented solution directly on the bill.
conners		Is that new?
marnie		Wave of the future.   Gotta keep up with the times, Conners.
dekker		So this money's not from our bank.
marnie		No. This is the money from the Pacific Savings job and our evidence room.  Now... For a list of things you can put in my mouth.
conners		Do you remember who headed up the Pacific Savings case?
teddy		I think it was Callo.    Why?
conners		No reason.     Just thinking out loud.
conners		When you said it was your "family business" I didn't think... I guess I just didn't connect the dots.
dekker		Don't worry about it.
conners		Your father was a hero.
dekker		Yes he was.
conners		At first I thought maybe you were related to the Captain.
dekker		No.   No relation.
conners		The Captain, he just kind of "discovered" you. Through the academy, to excellent evaluation reports, while 
dekker		Something like that.
conners		That's how he found me.
conners		Maybe we're not as different as you think.
conners		We found the money.
gina		That money was Dwayne's...
conners		That money came from our evidence room.
gina		I told you. I don't know nothing about a bank robbery. Whatever Damon was into, I didn't know!
conners		So, where were you going?
gina		Vacation.
conners		This isn't possession or solicitation, Gina. This is felony-murder one. You could get life.
gina		Me!?   I didn't do nothing!
conners		 It's "I didn't do anything." "Didn't do nothing" is a double negative, infers the positive. The grammar in this country sucks.
gina		Then I didn't do ANY-thing!
conners		This isn't going away. You want to walk out of here, you tell me something... now.
gina		I swear I don't know. Now I'm done talking. I want a lawyer.
conners		You sure that's what you want?
gina		Yeah.
conners		Fine. Then it's two phone calls I'll make. The first will be to the public defender's office. The second to children's services.
gina		What?
conners		It's simple... if you insist on a lawyer, I take your kids.
gina		No.
conners		Not like you cared about them anyway. You were ready to fly the coop with "Shit-for-brains."
gina		No.   You can't do that.
conners		I can and I will.
gina		Don't.
conners		Tell me what I want to know!
gina		 I don't know anything.     Please don't take my kids. Please.
conners		Get her some coffee...     Something hot.
dekker		You believe her?
conners		I think for the first time in that girl's life she's telling the truth.
dekker		You had to know, once she asked for a lawyer anything she told us would have been inadmissable.
conners		Who would've known? It would've been my word against hers. Who do you think the jury would've believed?
dekker		Justice by any means.    Even if you cross the line.
conners		The only line around here is the `blue line', you cross that one, then you got 
teddy		Those serial numbers Marnie faxed me... According to our computers, that money should be downstairs.
conners		 Buzz us in.
harry		 You gotta sign first.
harry		I heard you were back. Kinda liked not having you around, Conners.
conners		Have another donut, Frankie.
conners		That fat fuck is the sole guardian of the city's biggest source of contraband. Drugs. Weapons. Cash. 
dekker		You'd have to have some major firepower, not to mention an extra large set of balls to try and knock off a police station.
conners		Not if you were a cop.    You could just walk right in and...
conners		...   Take whatever you want.   Shit.
harry		Here is it. Line seventeen.
dekker		Bernie Callo.
harry		Like I said... No one takes anything out of here, unless they sign for it.
conners		So what...     He showed you a warrant? What?
harry		He must've.
conners		You don't remember?
harry		You know how many times someone signs shit in and out? I see the same guys all the time. I can't remember one instance two weeks ago. But if his signature's there, that means he signed for it. Take it up with him!
conners		The money from Richards's place traced back to the Pacific Savings heist a few months ago, a case Callo headed up.
teddy		Callo signed the money out of evidence two weeks ago.
jenkins		How much?
vincent		If it's Callo, it would explain how they knew police protocol and how our department operates.
teddy		Also explains why he was so pissed this morning about being replaced by Conners. He wanted to be the point so everything went according to plan.
conners		He doesn't need another reason to be pissed at me.
jenkins		What about motive?    Do we have one?
vincent		Pressure might've been getting to him. He's been getting the cold shoulder from cops since he testified about Pearl Street Bridge.
jenkins		No.   Don't buy that.
teddy		 He was also getting divorced.
teddy		About a month ago, he told me he and his wife might be splitting. Asked if I knew a lawyer who wouldn't clean him out. I didn't think it was this bad.
jenkins		 Bernie Callo is a first rate cop.     A boy scout. This doesn't make any sense.
conners		They never do, Captain.
jenkins		Don't act like you're not enjoying this, Conners. I know what you think of him.
conners		Doesn't matter what I think.      Facts here speak for themselves.
dekker		No they don't. We haven't asked the question... Why, if Callo's involved, don't they ask for him at the bank?  They asked for you.
jenkins		 Jenkins.
vincent		Blueprints from the bank, schematics, pictures... Also, about a dozen internet articles on the Saudi Prince. Found it behind the furnace.
dekker		Well, that's it, right?
lorenz		Are you connecting the dots? Are you putting it together? Is the pattern emerging? They wouldn't punish you, but I will.
lorenz		Vengeance will be mine, Detective.
conners		Then come and get me you piece of shit.
conners		What they told Callo was the plan and what the plan really was may be two different things. Clearly this wasn't part of a plan Callo would've agreed with.
dekker		You'd think a cop would be smarter.
conners		As cops we come across every temptation in the book. Money, drugs, power. We'd all like to think we can resist any urge, but... We're not saints.
dekker		So, Callo was involved and now they're dragging you into it. Why?
conners		Man said he wanted vengeance.
dekker		Piss anyone off lately?
conners		Me?
jenkins		I just got off the phone with Agent Doyle. After the Charlotte break in, the Prince withdrew all his possessions from every safe deposit box in this country.
dekker		Let me get this straight, they didn't touch the cash or the safe deposit boxes. So, they... break into a bank, blow it up, and steal nothing?  Still make sense to you?
conners		Nothing about today makes sense.
dekker		"Return to the earth now if your mind is troubled and your heart is uncertain. For it is by returning to the beginning that we can clearly see the path."
conners		 Don't look at me, he's your find.
jenkins		Say that again, Detective?
dekker		We go back to where this all started. We go to the bank.
dax		The tapes confirm five bad guys, but since the vault cam blew in the explosion what they did in there was a mystery.
dax		I've been through these tapes twenty times already and nothing...
conners		Shutup.
dekker		Wait, hold on a second.   Did you see it?
dax		See what?
dekker		Go back a little.
conners		What?
dekker		Notice the camera angles, they're all fixed. They don't rotate or pan.
dekker		There. Stop. Play it. Look closely, camera five, the vault cam, dominates our attention because of the explosion. But while that's happening, check out Camera two, customer service.
dax		Where'd he go?
conners		He moved it. Changed the angle.    He didn't want us to see something.
dekker		What's in that corner they didn't want us to see?
dekker		Are you at all concerned that there's some whacko out there looking to get you?
conners		If I worried about every threat made against me, I'd never leave the house.
conners		 Those are priority one. If he's got a record, I want an I.D. yesterday.
forensics technician		I'm on my way.
conners		Dax, can you hack in there and find out what they were doing on this machine?
dax		Hack into a nationwide bank's central computer system? Love to.
dekker		What do we do in the meantime?
conners		You like Italian?
italian host		Detective, where you been? Much too long. Sit, sit. I give you best table in house. It'll just be the two?
conners		No, four.    More are coming.
italian host		Wonderful, wonderful. Who's this young man?
conners		For all intents and purposes... he's Big Brother.
italian host		 He's your brother?
conners		No.
italian host		No matter, no matter...     I bring you bottle of house wine!
dekker		We're still on duty.     No wine.
italian host		 No wine?
conners		A little wine.
italian host		That's better.
conners		Last time I was here, you said that table in the corner was the "best in the house."
italian host		It was. Anywhere you sit becomes best table in house. Now relax, I bring you food.
conners		Shane, what was that thing you said back at the house about "returning to the beginning path" or something?
dekker		It's a Buddhist story.
conners		We're all ears.
dekker		One day the Buddha found his heart in turmoil. So he retreats to the forest, to the earth, to the base of a great tree and, I'm paraphrasing, but... this elephant comes up and tells Buddha he doesn't like seeing him discouraged.
teddy		He can talk to an elephant?
dekker		He's the Buddha. He's attained the 6th level of consciousness. He's capable of communicating with plants, trees... even rocks.
vincent		Rocks?
dekker		You asked.
conners		Continue.
dekker		The Buddha was troubled so he went back to where he came from, the beginning, to find the path, the answer. So when you hit a dead end, go back to the beginning to find your way. Or something like that.
conners		We have a genuine philosopher in our midst.
vincent		You're a Buddhist?
dekker		No. Just something I picked up along the way.
teddy		But you're religious?
dekker		Not particularly.
dekker		You're all pretty tight.
teddy		We've been through a lot together.
dekker		I guess I just thought... I don't know. With all the trouble he's been in lately, coming back from suspension, everyone would treat him differently.
vincent		You can't believe what you read or see on TV. If anything, our tie to Conners is stronger. He's one of the best. Even when things got pretty wild today and everyone else panicked, he was in control. That doesn't just happen. He's just that good.
teddy		Excuse me.
vincent		What was the Buddha looking for?
dekker		The divine in himself.
dekker		How long does it usually take to for fingerprints to be ID'd?
vincent		Hours, maybe days.    We could be waiting a while.
dekker		 They got a match.
conners		What are you doing?
teddy		I realized something today. Being around you, all that's happened...       I can't... I think I made a mistake.
conners		It's too late. You've made your choice. Live with it.
dekker		We got a match.
conners		You got a name?
dekker		Chris Lei.
conners		 Sonofabitch.
conners		Prick used to work for some big-time software company until they caught him dipping into the company's slush fund. They didn't want the publicity so they didn't press charges. Couple years later, he was busted for looting the pension plans of retired cops. For a genius... he's a fucking moron.
dekker		This was your case. You and York. You made the bust. Why didn't it stick?
conners		His lawyer put us on trial. Said we were crooked, abusive, that we planted evidence... We were in the midst of the Pearl Street Bridge fallout. Jury bought it. They let him walk and we were the scapegoats.
dekker		Was it true?
conners		The guy was guilty. He was scum. That was the truth.  There's something they don't teach you. The system breaks down. You have to compensate to get results.
dekker		That gives you the right to break the rules?
conners		Break, no.     Bend... if it means justice...     Absolutely.
dekker		Another thing they don't teach you.
chris		Shit.
lorenz		Fare thee well, Chris.
conners		You okay?
dekker		Yeah.
conners		First day in the city and you've already been shot.
dekker		Why don't I "just graze" you with a bullet and see how you feel.
conners		 Take five, guys.
conners		Hiya, Damon. How you feeling?
dekker		 May I?
dekker		You remember me, don't you?  Thought so.
dekker		I was skiing about three years ago. Aspen. Beautiful country. Ever been? Never mind. I hit a mogul, landed on a sheet of ice and slammed into a tree. Broke myself up pretty bad. Kinda like you did today. I was in a hospital bed for three months. Had it not been for... Here it is.  Morphine. Without this stuff, I wouldn't have made it.
dekker		Now this IV drip administers a small dosage every minute. Makes you feel relaxed and calm. No pain. But...
dekker		If I were to inject this whole thing... That would be all she wrote for Damon.
richards		You don't have the balls.
dekker		This equipment malfunctions all the time. Overdoses are quite common. Besides, I don't think the DA's going to launch a full-scale investigation over a scum like you.
dekker		You don't have to tell us a damn thing. Plead the fifth... roll the dice.
conners		You fuckin' hypocrite. You give me shit for my interrogating skills... least I don't threaten them with a lethal overdose.
dekker		There's never been a single case in recorded medical history of someone overdosing on 200 milliliters of saline.
dekker		Bend, not break. That's what you said, right?
jenkins		He's also the brother of John Curtis, the perp Conners shot at Pearl Street Bridge. 
conners		You never think of the repercussions. The suspect's mother, father... Brother. How your decision affects them.  He had murder in his eyes.
dekker		John Curtis.
conners		It was pouring. Lights everywhere.       If he had only done what I said.
conners		But it was not to be.
dekker		My father died when I was twelve. He walked into a liquor store in the middle of a stick up. Guy just opened fire. Never even had time to react. They said he was a hero. Know what 
conners		So why become a cop?
dekker		Finish what he started. Every day he went out, trying to do some good. Help the people who couldn't help themselves, just give'em a chance is what he always said. Didn't always work out right, but he tried. You tried to help save that girl on the bridge. If you weren't there, the girl still would've died. She had a chance because you were there. That's all we can do.
branch		 It's twenty-five after. How much longer we wait?
conners		Shit.
dekker		What?
conners		I'm out of gum.
dekker		Shit.
teddy		 Conners, we got a problem.
conners		 We hold. No one move.
branch		 We can't let him walk.   We have to go now.
conners		 No. Stand down.
vincent		 We're going to lose'em, Conners.
conners		 No. No go. We wait.
vincent		 We bust them now, we got something. But if they get in that car we don't have jack squat.
conners		We have three cars here and uniformed backup in all directions, if they ride, we'll get them. I want Curtis. We don't go in that house until I say!
conners		Trigger happy, Sons of bitches!
conners		We take them alive!
dekker		 All units, all units. Shots fired! Requesting backup immediately!
teddy		Drop the gun!
teddy		Drop it now. Last warning.
conners		Teddy!?     What's happening?
vincent		We got one down. He's dead.
conners		GUN!
teddy		Gas.  Get out of here!     Get out of here NOW!
dekker		Conners!
teddy		Everyone get down!
dekker		Where's Conners?
teddy		No!   No, we have to go save him!
dekker		We can't.
teddy		We have to.
dekker		Teddy...
teddy		No!
jenkins		...   If it had to be someone...
teddy		 You sonofabitch.
jenkins		Teddy...
teddy		You've always been jealous of him.
jenkins		Jealous?
teddy		It's because he wasn't only a better cop... He was a better man.
jenkins		Detective.     Go home.
jenkins		You have something you want to say?
dekker		No, Captain. She said it perfectly.
karen cross		Detective Galloway, could you give us a comment?
karen cross		We just wanted a statement.
dekker		Shame on you.
karen cross		This is more than just news for us. American National's CFO sits on the Board of Channel Two. They have a vested interest in what's going on.
dekker		Find another source.
teddy		Conners was right. We should've never gone in. How many more mistakes can we make in one day? He was eliminating his accomplices. We thought he was going to show up? We didn't even think he could do this... How dumb are we?
dax		Detective?
dax		I know what they were doing inside the bank.
dax		These are today's transaction records from the bank. An average day produces about 400 pages, give or take. Today, there were over 3,000 pages.
dekker		Meaning?
dax		We've just witnessed the largest heist in history. Somewhere in the neighborhood of a billion dollars.
dekker		Come again?
dax		It's a computer virus. "The Computer Virus." It randomly withdraws money from all the accounts and deposits it into the bad guys' account. If you check the transactions, no two withdrawal amounts are the same and none of'em are over $100. Most security systems work on the size of the money, not number of transactions. Wire out one million from a handful of accounts and red flags go up. Wire out a less than a hundred from ten million accounts, no flags.
dekker		Where's the money now?
dax		I tried following one of the transactions. It took me an hour and when I finally had it... It went away.
dekker		How is that possible?
dax		The virus created a host of phantom accounts where the money goes 
dekker		It's still moving the money around?
dax		Yeah. Any deposit or withdrawal from any bank doesn't usually go into affect until the next business day. So it's going to keep jumping around until it clears at 9 AM tomorrow.
dekker		 Or 6 AM Pacific time. Sunrise. So why break in? If they're just wiring money? Couldn't they do that from anywhere?
dax		That's the regional manager's computer terminal. There's no outside/remote access to it. There you have unlimited entry to the bank's mainframe. No passwords to work around, no "hacking" in. It's all nice and clean.
dekker		A billion dollars is missing and we're only discovering this now?
dax		Ironically, when the power went out, it helped hide the virus and bought it time to work.
dekker		So they weren't trying to make   it look like they were robbing a bank,   to rip off a Saudi Prince? They were    making it look like they ripped off a   Saudi Prince to rob a bank.  The Chaos Theory.
dekker		Dekker.
dekker		Put it through.
dekker		It's not over yet.
dekker		No. My wish is to catch you. You're a murderer. A cop killer at that.
dekker		I know about the money. You steal a billion dollars... They will find you.
jenkins		You're still here?
dekker		 Callo's insignificant.
jenkins		What?
dekker		That's what he said, Callo's insignificant. But he wasn't.
jenkins		What are you talking about?
dekker		Lorenz...    Curtis...   Called me.
jenkins		He called you?
dekker		He said he didn't kill anyone who didn't deserve it. He said Callo was insignificant. But without Callo he wouldn't have had the knowledge of our department and...  ... He wouldn't have had the front money to hire the crew.
jenkins		He was screwing with your head. Go home, Shane. You did good today. Your Dad would be proud. Get some sleep. There will be more bad guys tomorrow.
harry		I was in bed already.     This couldn't wait til morning.
dekker		 How did he come at you, Harry? It's the only thing that doesn't make sense.
harry		What are you talking about?
dekker		All day long we thought Callo was the dirty cop. All day long we were wrong.
dekker		That's the sign-out sheet from the evidence room. Here's one of Callo's reports. Here's another one... and another --
dekker		They're not the same signature, Harry. They're not even close.
harry		 Maybe he had a cramp in his hand.    I don't know.
dekker		 This is your file... You were reprimanded, a month ago after you confronted Callo at the courthouse. You punched him. That ring a bell?
harry		And I'd do it again. Cops who testify against cops shouldn't be breathing the same air I do. There's a line you don't cross!
dekker		So you set him up! You forged Callo's signature, you gave him the money and you helped him with his plan because you thought he got a raw deal at Pearl Street Bridge! Don't deny it, Harry cause I know.
harry		OF COURSE HE GOT A RAW DEAL AT PEARL STREET BRIDGE! EVERYBODY GOT A RAW DEAL!
dekker		You're helping a cop killer, Harry. You're a year from pension. This is how you want to go out?
harry		My conscience is clean.
dekker		This has been a very long, trying day. And I'm tired. We're chasing a 
harry		Of course he has.   Who knows Conners better than him?
dekker		 How the hell does Curtis know Conners better than anyone?
dekker		 Who would know Conners better than anyone? Who would you protect? And who in your mind got the raw deal at Pearl Street Bridge?
conners		Drop the weapon. Let the girl go.
york		That, you don't want to do.
john curtis		One step closer and the girl dies.
conners		Think about this... you kill her, where are you going to...
dekker		It was York who was the bad cop. He assumed Scott Curtis's identity to throw us off the trail.
dekker		York plays his old partner, knowing all his moves, frames his enemy for the crime, kills him too and pulls off the biggest robbery in history.
harry		Do what you want to me. He called to tell me he was going and he's gone and you ain't never going to find him.
dekker		Watch me.
dax		The number York used to call Harry Hume is a cellphone number. Ran it through 
dekker		Can they get a location on him?
dax		That particular phone he's using is equipped with the latest GPS technology. Should be able to trace his location within 100 meters or less.  They got him.
dax		The signal's coming from around 175th street. That's about fifteen miles north of us.  From the harbor he can take a boat or a sea-plane out. He's gone.
dekker		 No. If there's a signal. Means he's still here. He's waiting for something or someone.
dax		Waiting? Where? Ain't nothing down there that's open at this hour.
dekker		 175th street... There's is one place.
teddy		I'm going with you.
dekker		Detective Galloway...
teddy		 It's not a request.
york		Keep the change.
pretty waitress		Thanks, mister.
dekker		Jason York... this is the police. Put your hands in the air and slowly get on your knees. Do it. Now!
york		Don't shoot. You win.
dekker		Get down on the pavement!
york		I'm cooperating.   You win.
dekker		GET DOWN NOW! FINAL WARNING!
york		I SAID... I... GIVE... UP!
dekker		 Take the back!
york		Was it Harry? It was Harry, right? That fat fuck!
dekker		Let the girl go. It's over.
york		Easy for you to say. I'm a plane ride away from a King's Ransom.
dekker		Drop the weapon, let the girl go.
york		And spend the rest of my days in a cage? Let me ponder...  Don't think so. If you're going to stop me... I'm gonna make you earn it.
dekker		That you don't want to do.
york		 YOU'D DO EXACTLY WHAT I DID!
dekker		Shit.
teddy		I'm fine.    Go get him.
dekker		Which way did he go?
pretty waitress		That way.    Down towards the pier.
dekker		FBI's got a team of 40 computer technicians figuring out Lei's virus. They'll break it.
york		Your conviction would be admirable, if it wasn't just so sad.
york		Get it through your head... The calvary ain't coming. No heroes are coming to save the day. The bad guy gets away at the end of this story.  Dekker peers around the corner... York's gone.  YORK  I think Conners would be sorry that you died. But not me.  Dekker stops, eyes a full 360. The containers all look alike. Dekker wonders if he's just going around in circles. Until...  BAM! BAM! BAM! BULLETS RICOCHET ALL AROUND DEKKER!         He dive-rolls for cover as...  ON TOP OF A CONTAINER... York UNLEASHES, until... CLICK!        Out of ammo.  Dekker, hearing this, pops up, RETURNS FIRE!  York leaps off the backside of the container!  Dekker gives chase. As he circles the container... no York. Instead, he finds a DOCK.  174   EXT.   DOCK - NIGHT                                             174  A narrow wooden dock. There's a few small boats, A TUG BOAT and at the end... A SEAPLANE.  Dekker approaches the tug. Each step slow and deliberate. EYES TRANSFIXED on the seaplane.  As he nears the Seaplane... A SHADOW RISES from BEHIND HIM. From on top of the TUG BOAT!  Dekker turns just as...  York throws a fishing net on top of Dekker.    As Dekker struggles in the net, HIS GUN DISCHARGES!  York with a PIKE POLE in hand, leaps down, CLUBBING Dekker over the head with the weapon. Dekker goes down! 
york		I have come this far...      I will not be denied.
teddy		We used to spend all day   Sunday just reading in bed. I would    read the paper and he would read one of   his billion books. I didn't deserve    him. I knew that. But I still loved    him.
teddy		He's the only man I ever loved.  Did we all get shot today?
dekker		They said in the city I'd be busy. Every day like this?
teddy		Pretty much.
dekker		Great.    I wonder what's next?
teddy		For me...    a long vacation.
dekker		How much?
pretty waitress		Do you think I'm going to charge you after all that? Go on.
dekker		Thanks.
marnie		Do you smell that?
dekker		 What is it?
marnie		When evidence is taken in, any physical mark might effect the ability to lift prints, so, to mark it, we spray it with a scented solution.
waitress		Anything else, officers?
dekker		 You tried them all?/ Nothing for Conners or Lorenz?/ I don't know.        No, maybe he's not on a flight.
dekker		Try again.     But try Gleick.   James Gleick.
dekker		Conners?
dekker		Ten bucks.
dekker		Harry and the phone call. He called me, said Callo was insignificant. Threw up a red flag.
conners		I didn't kill anyone who didn't deserve it.
dekker		All day long, we were trying to find out who the inside source was... it was you.
conners		The more information you gather, from as many sources as possible, no matter how unpleasant the methods are, the better. And while I'd like to take sole credit it was a team effort.
dekker		 Teddy's pretty devastated about your death.
teddy		Gas.   Get out of here!    Get out of here NOW!
dekker		So the corpse in the morgue with your name on its toe...?
dekker		You're a serial killer.
dekker		You said they were all hoods...     what about, Callo?
conners		Callo deserved his fate.      It's his fault.
dekker		This is Callo's fault?
conners		If it weren't for him, York and I would've never done this. One random act, causes another, causes another, and in the end... the pattern emerges. That's the Chaos Theory. 
dekker		Lei... you tanked his trial on purpose.
conners		They should've suspended me after I testified. What did they expect?
dekker		And because the "bitch that made her career off you" worked for Channel Two, that's why American National was the target.
conners		Everybody who screwed us, got screwed. Everything in its right place.
dekker		Why not kill me? You had plenty of opportunities.
conners		This wasn't about killing, Shane. This was about standing up for what matters. Besides... you kinda grew on me.
dekker		You're not going to get away.
dekker		What's that?
dekker		All your years of service for not. You're a hypocrite.
dekker		Conners?   Conners?
stewardess		Good morning, Sir. I'll let the Captain know we're ready.
stewardess		Will there be anything else?
conners		No thank you. I'm fine.
****Dialogues from script :Charade.txt****

written by		 Peter Stone
reggie		Don't tell me you didn't know it was loaded.  Sylvie!
reggie		Isn't there something constructive he can do -- like start an avalanche?
sylvie		 Va jouer, mon ange.
sylvie		When you start to eat like this something is the matter.
reggie		Sylvie -- I'm getting a divorce.
sylvie		a alors! From Charles?
reggie		He's the only husband I've got. I tried to make it work, I really have -- but --
sylvie		But what?
reggie		I don't know how to explain it. I'm just too miserable.
sylvie		It is infuriating that your unhappiness does not turn to fat!
sylvie		But why do you want a divorce?
reggie		Because I don't love him.
sylvie		But that is no reason to get a divorce!
sylvie		With a rich husband and this year's clothes you will not find it difficult to make some new friends.
reggie		 I admit I moved to Paris because I was tired of American Provincial,
man		Does this belong to you?
peter		Oh, forgive me.  Is this yours?
reggie		 It's hers. Where'd you find him, robbing a bank?
peter		He was throwing snowballs at Baron Rothschild.  We don't know each other, do we?
reggie		Why, do you think we're going to?
peter		I don't know -- how would I know?
reggie		I'm afraid I already know a great many people. Until one of them dies I couldn't possibly meet anyone else.
reggie		Quitter.
peter		 How's that?
reggie		You give up awfully easy, don't you?
sylvie		Viens, Jean-Louis, let us take a walk. I have never seen a Rothschild before.
peter		 Clever fellow -- almost missed me.
reggie		I'm afraid you're blocking my view.
peter		 Sorry. Which view would you like?
reggie		The one you're blocking. This is the last chance I have -- I'm flying back to Paris this afternoon. What's your name?
peter		Peter Joshua.
reggie		I'm Regina Lampert.
peter		Is there a Mr. Lampert?
reggie		Yes.
peter		Good for you.
reggie		No, it isn't. I'm getting a divorce.
peter		Please, not on my account.
reggie		No, you see, I don't really love him.
peter		Well, you're honest, anyway.
reggie		Yes, I am -- I'm compulsive about it -- dishonesty infuriates me. Like when you go into a drugstore.
peter		I'm not sure I --
reggie		Well, you go in and you ask for some toothpaste -- the small size -- and the man brings you the large size. You tell him you wanted the small size but he says the large size is the small size. I always thought the large size was the largest size, but he says that the family size, the economy size and the giant size are all larger than the large size -- that the large size is the smallest size there is.
peter		Oh. I guess.
reggie		Is there a Mrs. Joshua?
peter		Yes, but we're divorced.
reggie		That wasn't a proposal -- I was just curious.
peter		Is your husband with you?
reggie		Oh, Charles is hardly ever with me. First it was separate rooms -- now we're trying it with cities. What do people call you -- Pete?
peter		Mr. Joshua.  Well, I've enjoyed talking with you.
reggie		Now you're angry.
peter		No, I'm not -- I've got some packing to do. I'm also going back to Paris today.
reggie		Oh. Well, wasn't it Shakespeare who said: "When strangers do meet they should erelong see one another again"?
peter		Shakespeare never said that.
reggie		How do you know?
peter		It's terrible -- you just made it up.
reggie		Well, the idea's right, anyway. Are you going to call me?
peter		Are you in the book?
reggie		Charles is.
peter		Is there only one Charles Lampert?
reggie		Lord, I hope so.
reggie		Goodbye, Sylvie, and thanks. 
sylvie		He knows everything.
reggie		 Don't you want me to stay?
reggie		-- you could have the stamps. I'll get you some here, okay?
reggie		 Merci.
reggie's voice		Wonderful.
reggie		Honorine -- !
reggie		Charles -- !
grandpierre		Madame Charles Lampert?
reggie		Yes.
grandpierre		I am Inspector Edouard Grandpierre of the Police Judiciaire. Would you be so kind as to come with me, please?
grandpierre		You loved him?
reggie		I'm very cold.
grandpierre		We discovered your husband's body lying next to the tracks of the Paris- Bourdeaux railroad line. He was dressed only in his pajamas. Do you know of any reason why he might have wished to leave France?
reggie		Leave?
grandpierre		Your husband possessed a ticket of passage on the 'Maranguape.' It sailed from Bordeaux for Maracaibo this morning at seven.
reggie		 I'm very confused.
grandpierre		He was American?
reggie		Swiss.
grandpierre		Oh. Swiss. His profession?
reggie		He didn't have one.
grandpierre		He was a wealthy man?
reggie		I don't know. I suppose so.
grandpierre		About how wealthy would you say?
reggie		I don't know.
grandpierre		Where did he keep his money?
reggie		I don't know.
grandpierre		Besides yourself, who is his nearest relation?
reggie		I don't know.
grandpierre		 C'est absurde, Madame. To-tale-ment absurde!
reggie		I know.  I'm sorry.
grandpierre		It is all right.
grandpierre		Is it all right?
reggie		I wish you wouldn't.
grandpierre		Les effets de Lampert.
grandpierre		On Wednesday last your husband sold the entire contents of the apartment at public auction. Furniture, clothing, kitchenware -- everything. The gallery, in complying with his wishes, paid him in cash. One million two hundred and fifty thousand New Francs. In dollars, a quarter of a million. The authorities in Bordeaux have searched his compartment on the train. They have searched it thoroughly. They did not find $250,000, Madame.
grandpierre		These few things are all that was found in the train compartment. There was no other baggage. Your husband must have been in a great hurry.
grandpierre		One wallet containing four thousand francs -- one agenda --  Why there?
reggie		I don't know. Perhaps he met somebody.
grandpierre		 One ticket of passage to South America -- one letter, stamped but unsealed, addressed to you --
reggie		 A letter? May I see it?
reggie		 Not very much, is it?
grandpierre		We took the liberty of calling your dentist -- we thought, perhaps, we would learn something.
reggie		Did you?
grandpierre		Yes. Your appointment has been changed.  -- that is all.
grandpierre		If you will sign this list you may take the things with you.
reggie		 Is that all? Can I go now?
grandpierre		One more question. Is this your husband's passport?
reggie		Of course it is.
grandpierre		And this?
reggie		I don't understand.
grandpierre		And this? And this?
grandpierre		Have you nothing to say, Madame?
reggie		 It's all right if you want to smoke your cigar now.
reggie		 What are you doing here?
peter		I phoned but nobody answered. I wanted to tell you how sorry I am -- and to find out if there was anything I could do.
reggie		How did you find out?
peter		It's in all the afternoon papers. I'm very sorry.
reggie		Thank you.
peter		I rang the bell but I don't think it's working.
reggie		Yes it is -- I heard it this morning.
reggie		They must have turned off the electricity.
peter		Where did everything go?
reggie		Charles sold it all -- at auction.
peter		Do you know what you're going to do?
reggie		Try and get my old job back at UNESCO, I suppose.
peter		Doing what?
reggie		I'm a simultaneous translator -- like Sylvie, only she's English to French -- I'm French to English. That's what I did before I married Charles. The police probably think I killed him.
peter		Instant divorce you mean?
reggie		Something like that. But I'm sorry it ended like this -- tossed off a train like a sack of third-class mail.
peter		 Come on. You can't stay here.
reggie		I don't know where to go.
peter		We'll find you a hotel.
reggie		Not too expensive -- I'm not a lady of leisure anymore.
peter		Something modest but clean -- and near enough to UNESCO so you can take a cab when it rains -- okay?
reggie		I loved this room -- but Charles never saw it -- only what was in it. All those exquisite things --  I think I prefer it like this.
reggie		It's not exactly what I'd call a large turn-out.
sylvie		Didn't Charles have any friends?
reggie		Don't ask me -- I'm only the widow.  If Charles had died in bed we wouldn't even have him.
sylvie		At least he knows how to behave at funerals.
sylvie		Have you no idea who could have done it?
reggie		Until two days ago all I really knew about Charles was his name -- now it turns out I didn't even know that.
sylvie		Do you know him?
reggie		I've never seen him before.
sylvie		He must have known Charles pretty well.
reggie		How can you tell?
sylvie		He's allergic to him.
tex		 Ariva durchy, Charlie.
tex		Miz Lampert, ma'am...
tex		Miz Lampert, ma'am...
reggie		Yes?
tex		Charlie had no call to handling it this-a-way. He sure didn't. No siree.
reggie		I don't understa--
reggie		Merci, Monsieur.
attendant		Pas du tout, madame, pardon -- pardon -- pardon.
sylvie		Who is it from?
reggie		The American Embassy.
sylvie		What is it about?
reggie		I don't know.  But if this is a sample of American diplomacy I'm buying a fallout shelter.
reggie		 Hello?
reggie		Uh -- Miss Tompkins isn't here.
bartholomew		I'm sorry -- my secretary must have gone to lunch. You are -- ?
reggie		Mrs. Lampert -- Mrs. Charles Lampert.
bartholomew		 Come in, Mrs. Lampert. You're quite late.
bartholomew		Excuse me for a moment, Mrs. Lampert -- it's a stubborn little devil.
bartholomew		Dry-cleaningwise, things are all fouled up. I had a good man -- an excellent man on the Rue Ponthieu, but H.Q. asked us to use the plant here in the building -- to ease the gold outflow.
reggie		Mr. Bartholomew -- are you sure you know who I am?
bartholomew		 Last time I sent out a tie only the spot came back.
bartholomew		Voil! As they say.
bartholomew		Have some, please. I've got...  ...liverwurst -- liverwurst -- chicken and -- liverwurst.
reggie		No thanks.
bartholomew		Do you know what C.I.A. is, Mrs. Lampert?
reggie		I don't suppose it's an airline, is it?
bartholomew		Central Intelligence Agency -- C.I.A.
reggie		You mean spies and things like that?
bartholomew		Only we call them agents.
reggie		We? You mean you're --?
bartholomew		Someone has to do it, Mrs. Lampert --
reggie		I'm sorry, it's just that I didn't think that you people were supposed to admit --
bartholomew		I'm not an agent, Mrs. Lampert -- I'm an administrator -- a desk jockey -- trying to run a bureau of overworked men with under-allocated funds. Congress seems to think that all a spy needs --
reggie		Agent.
bartholomew		Yes -- That all he needs is a code book and a cyanide pill and he's in business.
reggie		What's all this got to do with me, Mr. Bartholomew?
bartholomew		 Your husband was wanted by the U. S. government.
reggie		May I have a sandwich, please?
bartholomew		To be more specific, he was wanted by this agency.
reggie		 So that was it.
bartholomew		Yes. We knew him, of course, by his real name.
reggie		 His -- real -- ?
bartholomew		Voss -- Charles Voss. All right, Mrs. Voss --  Scott, Cathy, and Ham, Jr.
reggie		Very sweet.
bartholomew		Aren't they?  Now look at this one, Mrs. Voss, and --
reggie		Stop calling me that! Lampert's the name on the marriage license.
bartholomew		Yes -- and tell me if you recognize anyone. Just a moment. Have a good look.
bartholomew		 Mrs. Lampert, I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger.
reggie		Danger? Why should I be in any danger?
bartholomew		You're Charles Voss's wife -- now that he's dead you're their only lead.
reggie		Mr. Bartholomew -- if you're trying to frighten me you're doing a really first-rate job! 
bartholomew		Please, do what we ask, Mrs. Lampert -- it's your only chance.
reggie		Gladly, only I don't know what you want! You haven't told me.
bartholomew		Oh, haven't I? The money -- Mrs. Lampert -- the money. The $250,000 Charles Voss received from the auction. Those three men want it, too -- they want it very badly.
reggie		But it's Charles's money, not theirs.
bartholomew		 Oh, dear.
reggie		Then whose is it? His or theirs?
bartholomew		Ours.
reggie		 Oh, I see.
bartholomew		And I'm afraid we want it back.
reggie		But I don't have it.
bartholomew		That's impossible. You're the only one who could have it.
reggie		I'm sorry it's impossible. It's the truth.
bartholomew		I believe you.
reggie		Thanks very much.
bartholomew		Oh, you've got the money all right -- you just don't know you've got it.
reggie		Mr. Bartholomew -- if I had a quarter of a million dollars, believe me, I'd know it.
bartholomew		Nevertheless, Mrs Lampert -- you've got it.
reggie		You mean it's just lying around someplace -- all that cash?
bartholomew		Or a safe deposit key, a certified check, a baggage claim -- you look for it, Mrs. Lampert -- I'm quite sure you'll find it.
reggie		But --
bartholomew		Look for it, Mrs. Lampert -- look just as hard and as fast as you can. You may not have a great deal of time. Those men know you have it just as surely as we do. You won't be safe until the money's in our hands. Is that clear?
bartholomew		Here's where you're to call me -- day or night. It's a direct line to both my office and my apartment. Don't lose it, Mrs. Lampert -- and please don't tell anyone about coming to see me. It could prove fatal for them as well as yourself.
reggie		Wait a minute -- you think those three men killed Charles, don't you?
bartholomew		We've no proof, of course, but we rather think so, yes.
reggie		Well, there you are! Charles had the money with him -- so whoever killed him has it -- they have it!
reggie		Why not?
bartholomew		 Because they're still here.
reggie		Oh.
bartholomew		Like I said, Mrs Lampert -- I'm afraid you're in a great deal of danger. Remember what happened to Charles.
peter		Reggie -- ?
reggie		 Hallo, Peter.
peter		You telephoned me to meet you. I've been standing on the corner back there -- waiting for you.
reggie		I'm sorry -- I heard the children laughing.
peter		What's going on?
reggie		Don't you understand French?
peter		I'm still having trouble with English.
reggie		The man and the woman are married --
peter		Of course? I thought he was dead.
reggie		He's only pretending, to teach her a lesson -- only --  only he is dead, Peter -- I saw him -- he's not pretending. Somebody threw him off a train. What am I going to do?
peter		I wish you'd let me help you. Whatever it is, it doesn't sound like the sort of thing that a woman can handle all by herself.
peter		Have you got a mirror?  Give it to me.
peter		Right there, between your eyes -- see? Worry lines. You're much too young and too pretty to have anything like that. How about making me vice- president in charge of cheering you up?
reggie		 Starting tonight?
emcee		Bonsoir mesdames et messieurs, good evening ladies and gentlemen, guten Abend, meine Damen und Herren -- ce soir, comme tous les soirs, l'attraction ici, au Black Sheep Club, c'est vous! Venez, mesdames et messieurs, step right up, ladies and gentlemen, kommen Sie her, meine Damen en Herren, avanti, signore e signori -- avanti!
peter		What was all that?
reggie		Fun and games. Evidently we're the floorshow.
peter		You mean you and me?
reggie		No, everyone. Come on -- avanti, avanti!
emcee		coutez bien -- les rgles sont tres simples -- the rules are very easy -- deux quipes -- two teams -- each with one orange -- une orange -- eine apfelsine -- un' arrancia -- held under the chin, like so --  comme a -- and passed to the player behind you -- sans vous servir de vos mains -- using nothing but the chin -- no hands -- and keeping the orange at all costs from touching the floor. Commencez, Mesdames et Messieurs -- begin, ladies and gentlemen -- signore e signori, comminciate!
peter		En garde.
reggie		Lay on, MacDuff.
gideon		Mrs. Lampert --
reggie		What do you want?
gideon		Didn't Charles tell you, Mrs. Lampert?
reggie		Tell me what?
gideon		It doesn't belong to you, Mrs. Lampert -- you do know that, don't you?
reggie		I don't know anything.
gideon		Mrs. Lampert, any morning now you could wake up dead.
reggie		Leave me alone -- !
gideon		Dead, Mrs. Lampert -- like last week's news -- like Charles, Mrs. Lampert --
peter		Reggie -- what's the trouble?
reggie		He -- he was stepping on my foot.
gideon		Forgive me -- it was quite unintentional, I'm sure.
reggie		 Wait for me -- I won't be long.
reggie		 Mr. Bartholomew? Can you hear me?
reggie		Hello -- Mr. Bartholomew -- it's me, Regina Lam...
tex		Howdy, Miz Lampert.
reggie		Wha -- what do you want?
tex		You know what I want, Miz Lampert...
reggie		No -- no, I'm don't.
tex		Come on now -- sure you do. An' you'd better give it to me, Miz Lampert -- cuz I ain't foolin'. No sireebob!
reggie		I don't know what --
reggie		What are you doing?
reggie		Stop that!
tex		Don't make too much noise, Miz Lampert --
tex		It could get a whole lot worse.
tex		It belongs to me, Miz Lampert -- an' if you don't give it to me your life ain't gonna be worth the paper it's printed on. You savvy what I'm sayin', Miz Lampert?
reggie		Please stop -- please!
tex		You think on it real careful-like, Miz Lampert -- y'hear?
reggie		You're insane, absolutely insane!
peter		What are you doing in here?
reggie		 Having a nervous breakdown.
peter		You haven't said a word since we left the club -- what happened back there?
reggie		I -- I'm not sure if I'm supposed to tell you or not.
peter		I don't think I follow you.
reggie		He said if I told anybody it could prove fatal for them as well as me.
peter		Who said?
reggie		That's what I'm not supposed to say.
peter		Stop this nonsense! If you're in some sort of trouble I want to know about it.
reggie		Stop bullying me. Everybody's bullying me.
peter		I wasn't --
reggie		Yes, you were -- you called it nonsense. Being murdered in cold blood isn't nonsense. Wait until it happens to you sometime.
night clerk		Bonsoir.
reggie		Bonsoir. Quarante-deux, s'il vous plait.
night clerk		Bonne nuit.
reggie		 Would you mind seeing me to the door?
peter		Of course not.
reggie		This is quite a place for making friends, isn't it?
peter		You said this afternoon that your husband was mixed up in something.
reggie		 How do you shave in there?
peter		What was it?
reggie		What was what?
peter		What your husband was mixed up in.
reggie		Look, I know it's asking you to stretch your imagination, but can't you pretend for a moment that I'm a woman and that you're a --
peter		Don't you know I could already be arrested for transporting a minor above the first floor?
peter		We're here.
reggie		Where?
peter		On the street where you live.
reggie		How about once more around the park?
peter		Out.
reggie		 Him: 'Do you mind if I come in for a nightcap, Reggie?' Her: 'Well -- it is awfully late.' Him: 'Just one, all right?' Her: 'Promise you'll behave yourself.' Him: 'Sorry, baby, I never make promises I can't keep.'
peter		How would you like a spanking?
reggie		How would you like a punch in the nose? Stop treating me like a child.
peter		Then stop acting like one. If you're really in some kind of trouble, I'd like to hear about it. Otherwise, it's late, I'm tired and I'm going home to bed.
reggie		Do you know what's wrong with you?
peter		What?
reggie		Nothing. Good night.
peter		Good night.
scobie		Where is it, lady -- where've you got it?
reggie		 I don't know -- I don't know! I don't --
scobie		I want it -- give it to me -- it's mine!
reggie		 Peter -- ! Peter -- !
reggie		A man -- he tried to kill me!
reggie		 Peter! Where are you?
reggie		Peter -- are you all right?
peter		I think I sprained my pride.  Where'd he go?
reggie		Out of the window, I guess -- I didn't see him.
peter		Lock the door and the window -- and don't let anyone in except me. I'll be back in a minute.
reggie		Be careful, Peter.
peter		 You took the words right out of my mouth.
gideon		That was a dumb move, Herman -- a dumb move.
tex		And then some. If you'd only told us you was goin' to her room we could've kept 'em busy --
tex		-- but sneakin' in there on your own that-a-way, why, man, you was bound to get yore tokus kicked. I mean, what'd you think he'd do -- walk up 'n' shake you by that hand o' yores?
peter		 I didn't hurt you, did I?
gideon		 Never mind that -- did you get the money?
peter		How could I with the three Marx Brothers breathing down my neck? You said you'd let me handle it alone -- ! The girl trusts me. If she's got it, I'll find out about it. But you've got to leave me alone.
scobie		 We took all the chances. The money belongs to us, not him!
tex		Don't be un-neighborly-like, Herman -- don't forget he done us a little ol' favor.
scobie		Yeah? What's that?
tex		He took care of Charlie for us.
gideon		 We appreciate it, really we do.
scobie		But who asked him? Three shares are enough -- I'd say he's out!
peter		A third of nothing is nothing, Herman. Make up your minds -- she's waiting for me.
gideon		 I don't see how another twenty-four hours could hurt.
tex		Shoot no, not after all these years.
scobie		Then he gets it out of your share, not mine! Not mine!
gideon		I suggest you get about your business -- nothing soothes Herman like success.
tex		 That's right -- it's like ticklin' a alligator's belly.
peter		Who's got the room next to hers?
tex		Me. How come?
peter		Get another one, will you? I'm going to need it.
tex		If you do find the money -- you won't forget t' tell us about it, will you, fella?
peter		 Don't worry.
tex		Oh, I ain't worryin' -- but see this pudgy little fella here?  He worries -- an' he's even meaner'n I am.
reggie		Who is it?
peter		There was no trace of him. All right, Reggie -- suppose you tell me what this is all about.
reggie		There are three men -- he's one of them -- they think I have something that belongs to them.
peter		What?
reggie		A quarter of a million dollars.
peter		Go on.
reggie		That's all.
peter		No, it isn't -- where's the money?
reggie		I don't know.  Those men killed Charles to get it. But he must not have had it with him on the train.
peter		So they think he left it with you.
reggie		But he didn't! I've looked everywhere --  Those men going to kill me.
peter		No, they won't -- I won't let them.
reggie		 Please help me, Peter -- you're the only one I can trust.
peter		Of course I'll help -- I told you I would, didn't I? Come on now --
reggie		I'm so hungry I could faint.  I've -- I've gotten your suit all wet.
peter		That's all right -- it's a drip-dry.
reggie		Peter, you've got to promise me something. Promise you'll never lie the way Charles did. Why do people have to tell lies?
peter		Usually it's because they want something -- and they're afraid the truth won't get it for them.
reggie		Do you tell lies?
reggie		 Hello?
scobie		Mrs. Lampert? -- it's me -- the man who was in your room a few minutes ago --
reggie		 What do you want?
peter		 Who is it?
reggie		 The man you had the fight with.
scobie		 Is Dyle with you?
reggie		Who?
scobie		 The man who hit me, lady -- Dyle -- that's his name. What's wrong -- is he still there?
reggie		 Yes -- that's right.
peter		What is it, Reggie -- what's he saying?
scobie		 Don't trust him -- don't tell him anything. He's after the money.
peter		What'd he say?
reggie		He -- he said if I didn't give the money, he'll kill me.
peter		I wouldn't take that too seriously.
reggie		I believe what he said.
peter		They're only trying to scare you, that's all.
reggie		How do you know what they're doing?
peter		I don't -- but as long as they think you have the money, or know where it is, or have it without knowing where it is, or don't even know you have it --
reggie		What are you talking about?
peter		You mustn't let what he said bother you. It was only words.
reggie		 Words can hurt very much.
peter		 Go to sleep -- I'll see you in the morning.
reggie		Don't put yourself out.
peter		Hey -- I'm on your side. Remember that.
reggie		Yes, I'll remember. Good night.
peter		Good night.
peter		But if you'll take my advice --  You'll undress in the closet. Oh, and if you need me, just bang on the wall. I'll be next door.
reggie		 Mr. Bartholomew? -- are you still there?
bartholomew		I don't know who this Mr. Dyle is, but it's just possible we were wrong about who killed your husband.
reggie		 You mean he might have -- Mr. Bartholomew, I'm catching the next plane out of here -- I'm not going to sit here and wait for someone to make chopped liver out of me!
bartholomew		 Where are you now -- can you meet me? Do you know Les Halles?
reggie		 -- in fifteen minutes. I'll be there.
dyle		Reggie -- !
reggie		Taxi -- !
reggie		N'importe o -- vite! Allez-y!
dyle		Taxi -- ! Taxi -- !
dyle		 Follow that taxi.
driver		Comment?
dyle		Taxi! Follow!
driver		Je ne comprends rien.
dyle		 Suivre -- el taxi!
driver		Ah! Oui, Monsieur.
reggie		 Aux Halles -- vite!
bartholomew		 Incredible, isn't it? Zola called it 'le ventre de Paris' -- the womb of Paris, the belly.
reggie		 What did you want to see me about, Mr. Bartholomew?
bartholomew		 Were you followed?
reggie		Yes, but I lost him. I really did it quite brilliantly. I'm beginning to think women make the best spies.
bartholomew		Agents.
reggie		He has a gun, Mr. Bartholomew -- I saw it.
bartholomew		Who?
reggie		Dyle, or whatever his name is.
bartholomew		What does your Mr. Dyle look like, Mrs. Lampert?
reggie		He's hardly my Mr. Dyle.
bartholomew		Describe him.
reggie		Well -- he's tall -- over six feet -- rather thin -- in good physical shape, I'd say -- dark eyes -- quite handsome, really.
bartholomew		 No.
reggie		No, what?
bartholomew		That's not Carson Dyle.
reggie		 Carson?
bartholomew		There's only one Dyle connected with this affair, Mrs. Lampert -- that's Carson.
reggie		You mean you've known about him all along? Why didn't you tell me?
bartholomew		It's enough to make you a vegetarian, isn't it?
reggie		It's just lucky that I'm not hanging next to one of those things right now.
reggie		Mr. Bartholomew -- why didn't you tell me you knew about Dyle?
bartholomew		I didn't see any point. Dyle's dead.
reggie		Dead? Mr. Bartholomew -- maybe you'd better tell me what this thing's all about.
bartholomew		I suppose you're old enough to have heard of World War Two?
reggie		Barely, yes.
bartholomew		In 1944, five members of the O.S.S. -- the military espionage unit -- were ordered behind the German lines for the purpose of delivering $250,000 in gold to the French Underground. The five men --
waiter		Vous dsirez?
reggie		 They always do that.
bartholomew		 Caf.
reggie		Gratine, choucroute garnie, salade de pommes -- et un ballon de rouge.
bartholomew		Mrs. Lampert, I really hadn't planned on spending the entire night here.
reggie		Can I at least keep the onion soup?
reggie		 La soupe tout simplement.
reggie		 Go on, please -- five men -- $250,000 -- the French Underground --
bartholomew		Yes. The five men. They were, of course, your husband, Charles, the three men who showed up at his funeral yesterday, and Carson Dyle. But something went wrong and they were unable to locate their contact. It must have been at that point that they decided to steal the money.
reggie		Steal it how?
bartholomew		By burying it, and then reporting that the Germans had captured it. All they had to do was come back after the war, dig it up and split it five ways -- a quarter of a million dollars with no questions asked.
reggie		 May I have a cigarette, please?
reggie		I hate these things -- it's like drinking coffee through a veil.
bartholomew		Everything went smoothly enough until after the gold was buried -- then, before they could get out, they were ambushed by a German patrol. A machine gun separated Scobie from his right hand -- and caught Carson Dyle full in the stomach.
bartholomew		What's wrong with that one?
reggie		Oh. Nothing, I guess. What happened then?
bartholomew		Have you any idea what these things cost over here?
reggie		Please go on, Mr. Bartholomew -- what happened then?
bartholomew		Scobie was able to travel, but Carson Dyle was clearly dying, so they --
waiter		La soupe, c'est pour qui?
reggie		Pour moi. Go on, Mr. Bartholomew.
bartholomew		Carson was dying so they were forced to leave him. They finally got back to the base, made their report, and waited for the war to end. Only Charles couldn't wait quite as long as the others. He beat them back to the gold, took everything for himself and disappeared. It's taken Gideon, Tex and Scobie all this time to catch up with him again.
reggie		But if they stole all that money -- why can't you arrest them?
bartholomew		We know what happened from the bits and pieces we were able to paste together -- but we still have no proof.
reggie		But what has all this got to do with the C.I.O.?
bartholomew		C.I.A., Mrs. Lampert. We're an extension of the wartime O.S.S. It was our money and we want it back.
reggie		I'm sorry, Mr. Bartholomew, but nothing you've told me has changed my mind. I still intend leaving Paris -- tonight.
bartholomew		I wouldn't advise that, Mrs. Lampert. You'd better consider what happened to your husband when he tried to leave. Those men won't be very far away -- no matter where you go. In fact, I don't even see any point in your changing hotels. Please help us, Mrs. Lampert. Your government is counting on you.
reggie		Well, if I'm going to die, I might as well do it for my country.
bartholomew		That's the spirit.
reggie		Oh, stop it. What do you want me to do?
bartholomew		We're anxious to know who this man is -- the one calling himself Dyle.
reggie		Maybe he really is Dyle. He could still be alive.
bartholomew		No, Mrs. Lampert.
reggie		But no one actually saw him die.
bartholomew		No, Mrs. Lampert. His death is registered with the War Department in Washington.
reggie		Oh. Then who's this one?
bartholomew		I don't know -- but I think you'd better find out, don't you?
reggie		Me? Why me?
bartholomew		You're in an ideal position -- he trusts you.  Besides, you said yourself, women make the best spies.
reggie		 Agents.
tourist		 Fraulein --
tourist		Fraulein --
reggie		 What are you doing, following me? Stop it -- we're going to look like a parade.
reggie		 How are you? When did you arrive in town? Are you enjoying Paris? It's lovely, isn't it? So many wonderful things to see and do, it makes one's head spin to think of it.
tourist		 Fraulein --
reggie		If you don't stop following me I'll call the police.
reggie		Taxi -- !
dyle		Dyle, please... D - Y - L - E.
clerk		Yes, Mr. Dyle. I remember.
clerk		I'm sorry, Mr. Dyle -- nothing today.
dyle		Thanks -- see you soon.
dyle		 Yes?
reggie		Good morning, Mr. Dyle.
dyle		Reggie?
reggie		It's the only name I've got. How about you?
dyle		No cat and mouse -- you've got me. What do you want to know?
reggie		Why you lied to me.
dyle		I had to -- for all I knew you could have been in on the whole thing.
reggie		Well, you know now, so please tell me who you are.
dyle		But you know my name -- it's Dyle.
reggie		Carson Dyle is dead.
dyle		Yes, he is. He was my brother.
reggie		Your --
dyle		The army thinks he was killed in action by the Germans, but I think they did it -- Tex, Gideon and Scobie -- and your husband -- because he wouldn't go along with their scheme to steal the gold. I think he threatened to turn them in and they killed him. I'm trying to prove it. They think I'm working with them. But I'm not, and that's the truth. I'm on your side, Reggie -- please believe that.
reggie		How can I? You lied to me -- the way Charles did -- and after promising you wouldn't. Oh, I want to believe you, Peter... oh, but I can't call you that anymore, can I? It will take me a while to get used to your new name -- which I don't even know yet. What is it?  Hello -- ?
scobie		 If you do anything funny, or try to talk to anyone, I'll kill you, Dyle -- here and now. Okay?
dyle		You'll wreck your raincoat.
scobie		Next car, please.
scobie		Okay -- turn around.
scobie		Sit down.
dyle		What now?
scobie		We wait -- with our mouths shut.
dyle		How long do you intend -- ?
scobie		I said with the mouth shut.
dyle		Sorry about that.
scobie		Okay -- up there.
dyle		Do I knock or something?
scobie		Open it.
scobie		Keep going.
dyle		The view had better be worth it.
dyle		Very pretty. Now what?
scobie		I'll give you a chance, Dyle -- which is more than you'd give me. Where's the money?
dyle		Is that why you dragged me all the way up here -- to ask me that? She has it -- you know that.
scobie		And I say maybe you both have it! One more time, Dyle -- where is it?
dyle		Supposing I did have it -- which I don't -- do you really think I'd hand it over?
scobie		You're out, Dyle -- right now!
scobie		Step back.
dyle		Back where?
scobie		That's the idea.
dyle		Herman?
scobie		Yeah?
dyle		How are you doing?
dyle		If you get bored, try writing 'Love thy neighbor' a hundred times on the side of the building.
dyle		I didn't do it.
manager		The next time madame forgets her key, there is another one at the desk.
reggie		Is that you?
reggie		Didn't anyone ever tell you it's impolite to --  What happened?
dyle		I met a man with sharp nails.
reggie		Scobie?
dyle		I left him hanging around the American Express.
reggie		Come on -- I've got something that stings like crazy.
reggie		Take off your shirt and lie down.
dyle		 Listen -- all I really want is an estimate.
reggie		It's not so bad. You may not be able to lie on your back for a few days -- but, then, you can lie from any position, can't you?
reggie		Does it hurt?
dyle		Haven't you got a bullet I can bite?
reggie		Are you really Carson Dyle's brother?
dyle		Would you like to see my passport?
reggie		Your passport! What kind of a proof is that?
dyle		Would you like to see where I was tattooed?
reggie		Sure.
dyle		Okay, I'll drive you around there some day.  Ouch!
reggie		Ha ha. You could at least tell me what your first name is these days.
dyle		Alexander.
reggie		Is there a Mrs. Dyle?
dyle		Yes, but we're divorced.
reggie		I thought that was Peter Joshua.
dyle		 I'm no easier to live with than he was.
reggie		 There -- you're a new man.
dyle		I'm sorry I couldn't tell you the truth, but I had to find out your part in all this.
reggie		Alex -- how can you tell if someone is lying or not?
dyle		You can't.
reggie		There must be some way.
dyle		There's an old riddle about two tribes of Indians -- the Whitefeet always tell the truth and the Blackfeet always lie. So one day you meet an Indian, you ask him if he's a truthful Whitefoot or a lying Blackfoot? He tells you he's a truthful Whitefoot, but which one is he?
reggie		Why couldn't you just look at his feet?
dyle		Because he's wearing moccasins.
reggie		Oh. Well, then he's a truthful Whitefoot, of course.
dyle		Why not a lying Blackfoot?
reggie		 Which one are you?
dyle		 Whitefoot, of course.
reggie		Come here.
reggie		Sit down.
reggie		I hope it turns out you're a Whitefoot, Alex -- I could be very happy hanging around the tepee.
dyle		Reggie -- listen to me --
reggie		Oh-oh -- here it comes. The fatherly talk. You forget I'm already a widow.
dyle		So was Juliet -- at fifteen.
reggie		I'm not fifteen.
dyle		Well, there's your trouble right there -- you're too old for me.
reggie		Why can't you be serious?
dyle		There, you said it.
reggie		Said what?
dyle		Serious. When a man gets to be my age that's the last word he ever wants to hear. I don't want to be serious -- and I especially don't want you to be.
reggie		Okay -- I'll tell you what -- we'll just sit around all day long being frivolous -- how about that?
dyle		Now please, Reggie -- cut it out.
reggie		 Okay.
dyle		What are you doing?
reggie		Cutting it out.
dyle		Who told you to do that?
reggie		You did.
dyle		But I'm not through complaining yet.
reggie		Oh. 
dyle		Now please, Reggie -- cut it out.
reggie		I think I love you, Alex --
dyle		 The phone's ringing --
reggie		Whoever it is won't give up -- and neither will I.
reggie		 Sorry -- I was just -- uh -- nibbling on something.
tex		Miz Lampert, my buddies 'n me, we'd oblige it mighty highly if you could mosey on across the hall 'n chew the fat with us for a spell.
reggie		 Can you give me one good reason why I should?
tex		 Yes, ma'am. A little one -- 'bout seven or eight years old. Th' little tyke keeps callin' you his Aunt Reggie -- ain't that cute?
reggie		They've got Jean-Louis!
dyle		That sounds like their problem.
reggie		 I'll be right there.
tex		 We'll be waitin' in room forty-seven, Miz Lampert -- so you just wiggle on over.
reggie		What day is it?
dyle		Tuesday.
reggie		Lord, I forgot all about it -- Sylvie works late Tuesday nights -- she always leaves him with me. They wouldn't do anything to a little boy, would they?
dyle		I don't know -- it depends on whether or not they've already eaten.
scobie		Hey, Tex -- move the kid to the other knee or something, will you? My leg's going to sleep.
tex		Upsy-daisy.
tex		Sure am.
tex		 Right here -- see?
gideon		Will you put that thing away!
reggie		Jean-Louis!
tex		Howdy, Miz Lampert.
scobie		 Who invited you?
dyle		Hello, Herman, it was a happy landing, I see.
reggie		I'd better call Sylvie -- she must be frantic.
gideon		I'm afraid that will have to wait, Mrs. Lampert.
reggie		But his mother --
gideon		She isn't going to be anybody's mother unless you answer some questions.
tex		This ain't no game, Miz Lampert.
scobie		We want that money -- now!
dyle		 Be quiet, all of you!
dyle		And stop threatening that boy. He doesn't have the money. Mrs. Lampert doesn't either.
scobie		Then who does?
dyle		I don't know, Herman -- maybe you do.
scobie		Me?
dyle		 Or you --
dyle		Slowly. Suppose one of you found Charles here in Paris, followed him, cornered him on the train, threw him out the window and took the money.
scobie		 That's a crock! If one of us did that he wouldn't hang around here waiting for the other two to wise up.
dyle		But he'd have to. If he left he'd be admitting his guilt -- and the others would know what happened. Whoever it is has to wait here, pretending to look for the money, waiting for the rest of us to give up and go home. That's when he'll be safe and not a minute before.
gideon		Up till now we always figured she had the money -- but you know so much about it, maybe you've got it.
dyle		Then what am I doing here? You didn't know anything about me -- I'm the only one who could have taken it and kept right on going.
scobie		He's just tryin' to throw us off! They've got it, I tell you! Why don't we search their rooms?
dyle		 It's all right with us --
tex		 What are we wastin' time for? Let's go.
dyle		And while we're waiting, we might as well go through yours.
scobie		 Not my room!
dyle		What's wrong, Herman -- have you got something to hide?  Then I take it there are no objections.
dyle		We'd better exchange keys. Here's mine.
scobie		I'll take that.
tex		Mine's in the door. Ariva durchy, y'all.
dyle		Come on -- let's get busy. Who gets your vote?
reggie		Scobie -- he's the one that objected.
dyle		 He's all yours. I'll do Tex and Gideon. Take Jean-Louis with you -- and make sure you bolt the door from inside.
reggie		Viens, Jean-Louis -- we're going to have a treasure hunt.
reggie		 What should we give him?
dyle		How about $25,000? Or do you think it would spoil him?
gideon		 Tex?
tex		What's that?
tex		Mebbe we'd better call Herman.
gideon		What for? If it's not here, why bother him?
tex		And if it is?
gideon		 Why bother him?
tex		You sure nuthin's missin'?
gideon		No. The police have kindly provided us with a list.
tex		There sure ain't nothin' here worth no quarter of a million.
gideon		Not unless we're blind.
tex		 You think that mebbe we're fishin' the wrong stream?
gideon		Meaning what?
tex		You don't s'pose one o' us has it, like the man said -- I mean, that'd be pretty distasteful -- us bein' vet'rans o' the same war 'n' all.
gideon		 You know I'd tell you if I had it.
tex		Nachurly. Jus' like I'd tell you.
gideon		Nachurly. And that goes for Herman, too.
reggie		-- He's all right, Sylvie, honestly. Just hurry up and get here.
reggie		Come on, now -- if you wanted to hide something, where would you put it?
reggie		Swell -- only this man doesn't have a garden.
reggie		Voil what?
reggie		You know something, cookie? Why not?
reggie		I hope I don't find any little hairy things living up here -- wait! There is something! If I can just -- yes, I'm getting it -- a case of some sort -- it's heavy.
reggie		If you think you're getting credit for this, you're crazy.
dyle		Reggie -- ? Did you find it?
reggie		No.
gideon		What do you mean, no?
tex		The kid said --
reggie		No, Jean-Louis.
reggie		It's nothing, I tell you!
reggie		Where is he?
tex		Hey, that's right!
dyle		 He's in my room.
dyle		Reggie -- you and the boy better wait here.
tex		Now who'da done a mean thing like that?
dyle		 I'm not quite sure.
tex		This ain't my room.
gideon		Mine, either.
dyle		 The police aren't going to like this one bit.
gideon		 He really doesn't look so bad.
tex		We could put him to bed 'n let one o' them fem-de-chambers find him in the mornin'.
tex		Poor ol' Herman -- him 'n good luck always was strangers. Maybe now he'll meet up with his other hand someplace -- but I sure hope it ain't waitin' for him in Heaven.
grandpierre		No! No! No! No!
grandpierre		A man drowned in his bed -- impossible! And in his pajamas -- the second one in his pajamas -- c'est trop bte! Stop lying to me --  Mr. Dyle or Mr. Joshua -- which is it?
dyle		Dyle.
grandpierre		And yet you registered in Megeve as Mr. Joshua. Do you know it is against the law to register under an assumed name?
dyle		No, I didn't.
reggie		It's done in America all the time.
grandpierre		None of you will be permitted to leave Paris -- until this matter is cleared up. Only I warn you -- I will be watching. We use the guillotine in this country -- I have always suspected that the blade coming down causes no more than a slight tickling sensation on the back of the neck. It is only a guess, of course -- I hope none of you ever finds out for certain.
reggie		Who do you think did it -- Gideon?
dyle		Maybe.
reggie		Or Tex?
dyle		Maybe.
reggie		You're a big help. Can I have one of those?
reggie		 Vanille-chocolat.
reggie		I think Tex did it.
dyle		Why?
reggie		Because I really suspect Gideon -- and it is always the person you don't suspect.
dyle		Do women think it's feminine to be so illogical -- or can't they help it?
reggie		What's so illogical about that?
dyle		A) It's always the person you don't suspect; B) that means you think it's Tex because you really suspect Gideon; therefore C) if you think it's Tex, it has to be someone else -- Gideon.
reggie		Oh. I guess they just can't help it.
dyle		Who?
reggie		Women. You know, I can't help feeling rather sorry for Scobie.  Wouldn't it be nice if we were like that?
dyle		What -- like Scobie?
reggie		No -- Gene Kelly. Remember the way he danced down there next to the river in 'American in Paris' -- without a care in the world? This is good, want some?
dyle		 I'd love some, thanks.
reggie		I'm sorry.
dyle		No sense messing up the streets.
reggie		Alex --
dyle		Hm?
reggie		I'm scared.
dyle		Don't worry, I'm not going to hit you.
reggie		No, about Scobie, I mean. I can't think of any reason why he was killed.
dyle		Maybe somebody felt that four shares were too many --
reggie		What makes you think that this somebody will be satisfied with three? He wants it all, Alex -- that means we're in his way, too.
dyle		Yes, I know.
reggie		First your brother, then Charles, now Scobie -- we've got to do something! Any minute now we could be assassinated! Would you do anything like that?
dyle		 What? Assassinate somebody?
reggie		No --
reggie		-- swing down from there on a rope to save the woman you love -- like Charles Laughton in 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame'?
reggie		Hurry up and change -- I'm starved.
dyle		Let me know what you want -- I'll pick a suit that matches.
reggie		It's the house detective -- why haven't you got a girl in there?
dyle		Lord, you're a pest.
dyle		I'd like to take a bath.
reggie		Wouldn't it be better if you did it in my room?
reggie		I wouldn't want to use that tub. Besides, I don't want to be alone. I'm afraid.
dyle		I'm only next door -- if anything happens, holler.
dyle		Reggie!
reggie		Got you.
dyle		Did you ever hear the story of the boy who cried wolf?
reggie		The shower's in there.
dyle		 Reggie -- open the door.
reggie		This is a ludicrous situation. There must be dozens of men dying to use my shower.
dyle		Then I suggest you call one of them.
reggie		I dare you.
reggie		 What are you doing?
dyle		Have you ever heard of anyone taking a shower with his shoes on?  What a nut.
dyle		I usually sing a medley of old favorites when I bathe -- any requests?
reggie		Shut the door!
dyle		I don't think I know that one.
reggie		What on earth are you doing?
dyle		 Drip-dry!
dyle		The suit needs it more than I do, anyway.
reggie		How often do you go through this little ritual?
dyle		Every day. The manufacturer recommends it.
reggie		I don't believe it.
dyle		"Wearing this suit during washing will help protect its shape."
dyle		Waterproof.
reggie		 Yes -- ?
bartholomew		 Mrs. Lampert? -- Bartholomew. I've spoken to Washington, Mrs. Lampert --
reggie		 Go ahead, Mr. Bartholomew -- I'm listening.
bartholomew		 I told them what you said -- about this man being Carson Dyle's brother. I asked them what they knew about it and they told me -- you're not gonna like this, Mrs. Lampert -- they told me Carson Dyle has no brother.
reggie		 Are you sure there's no mistake?
bartholomew		 None whatsoever. Please, Mrs. Lampert -- be careful.
dyle		I left all my drip-dry dripping -- is it all right?
dyle		Reggie -- is something wrong?
dyle		You're probably weak from hunger. You've only had five meals today. Hurry up and we'll go out.
reggie		Do you mind if we go someplace crowded? I -- I feel like lots of people tonight.
dyle		Reggie -- you haven't spoken a word in twenty minutes.
reggie		I keep thinking about Charles and Scobie -- and the one who's going to be next -- me?
dyle		Nothing's going to happen to you while I'm around -- I want you to believe that.
reggie		How can I believe it when you don't even know who the killer is? I've got that right, haven't I? You don't know who did it.
dyle		No -- not yet.
reggie		But then if we sit back and wait, the field should start narrowing down, shouldn't it? Whoever's left alive at the end will pretty well have sewn up the nomination, wouldn't you say so?
dyle		Are you trying to say that I might have killed Charles and Scobie?
dyle		What do I have to do to satisfy you -- become the next victim?
reggie		It's a start, anyway.
dyle		I don't understand you at all -- one minute you're chasing me around the shower room and the next you're accusing me of murder.
reggie		Carson Dyle didn't have a brother.
dyle		I can explain if you'll just listen. Will you listen?
reggie		 I can't very well leave without a pair of water wings.
dyle		Okay. Then get set for the story of my life -- not that it would ever make the best-seller list.
reggie		Fiction or non-fiction?
dyle		Why don't you shut up!
reggie		Well!
dyle		Are you going to listen?
reggie		Go on.
dyle		After I graduated college I was all set to go into my father business. Umbrella frames -- that's what he made. It was a sensible business, I suppose, but I didn't have the sense to be interested in anything sensible.
reggie		I suppose all this is leading somewhere?
dyle		It led me away from umbrella frames, for one thing. But that left me without any honest means of support.
reggie		What do you mean?
dyle		When a man has no profession except the one he loathes, what's left? I began looking for people with more money than they'd ever need -- including some they'd barely miss.
reggie		 You mean, you're a thief?
dyle		Well, it isn't exactly the term I'd have chosen, but I suppose it captures the spirit of the thing.
reggie		I don't believe it.
dyle		Well, I can't really blame you -- not now.
reggie		But I do believe it -- that's what I don't believe. So it's goodbye Alexander Dyle -- Welcome home Peter Joshua.
dyle		Sorry, the name's Adam Canfield.
reggie		Adam Canfield. Wonderful. Do you realize you've had three names in the past two days? I don't even know who I'm talking to any more.
dyle		 The man's the same, even if the name isn't.
reggie		No -- he's not the same. Alexander Dyle was interested in clearing up his brother's death. Adam Canfield is a crook. And with all the advantages you've got -- brains, charm, education, a handsome face --
adam		Oh, come on!
reggie		-- there has to be a darn good reason for living the way you do. I want to know what it is.
adam		It's simple. I like what I do -- I enjoy doing it. There aren't many men who love their work as much as I do. Look around some time.
reggie		Is there a Mrs. Canfield?
adam		Yes, but --
adam		Right. Now go eat your dinner.
reggie		 I could eat a horse.
adam		 I think that's what you ordered.
reggie		Don't you dare to be civil with me! All this time you were leading me on --
adam		How was I leading you on?
reggie		All that marvelous rejection -- you knew I couldn't resist it. Now it turns out you were only interested in the money.
adam		That's right.
adam		What would you like me to say -- that a pretty girl with an outrageous manner means more to an old pro like me than a quarter of a million dollars?
reggie		No -- I guess not.
adam		It's a toss-up, I can tell you that.
reggie		What?
adam		Don't you know I'm having a tough time keeping my eyes off of you?
adam		Oh, you should see your face.
reggie		What about it?
adam		 It's lovely.
adam		What's the matter?
reggie		I'm not hungry -- isn't it glorious?
reggie		 Adam!
adam		It's all right -- look.
reggie		You don't look so bad in this light.
adam		Why do you think I brought you here?
reggie		 I thought maybe you wanted me to see the kind of work the competition was turning out.
adam		Pretty good, huh? I taught them everything they do.
reggie		Oh? Did they do that sort of thing way back in your day?
adam		How do you think I got here?
reggie		Aren't you allowed to kiss back?
adam		No. The doctor said it would be bad for my -- thermostat.
adam		When you come on, you really come on.
reggie		Well -- come on.
reggie		I know why you're not taken -- no one can catch up with you.
adam		Relax -- you're gaining.
gideon		Huh? You must be crazy -- it's three- thirty in the morning -- you mean now?  -- all right -- I'll be down in a minute.
gideon		Hey! Turn on the lights!
gideon		Hey! How do you stop this thing?
grandpierre		Three of them -- all in their pajamas! C'est ridicule! What is it, some new American fad?
grandpierre		And now your friend -- the one from Texas -- he has disappeared -- checked out -- pouf! into thin air! Where is he?
adam		I don't know.
grandpierre		Madame?
grandpierre		Tell me, Mr. Dyle -- where were you at three-thirty?
adam		In my room, asleep.
grandpierre		And you, Mrs. Lampert?
reggie		I was, too.
grandpierre		In Mr. Dyle's room?
reggie		 No -- in my room.
grandpierre		 It stands to reason you are telling the truth -- for why would you invent such a ridiculous story?
grandpierre		And if I were you, I would not stay in my pajamas. Good night.
adam		That wraps it up -- Tex has the money. Go back to bed -- I'll let you know when I've found him.
reggie		You're going to look for him -- now?
adam		If the police find him first they're not very likely to turn over a quarter of a million dollars to us, are they?
reggie		Adam --
adam		There's no time -- I'll call you in the morning.
adam		Yes?
tex		Now Dyle, you listen to me -- my mama didn't raise no stupid children. I know who's got the money 'n I ain't disappearing till I got my share -- 'n' my share's growin' a whole lot bigger ev'ry day.
adam		 Where are you, ol' buddy?
reggie		What is it?
adam		Open up.
adam		I think we were wrong about Tex having the money.
reggie		Why?
adam		I just heard from him -- he's still hungry. That means killing Gideon didn't get it for him -- so he's narrowed it down to us. You've got it.
reggie		I've looked, Adam -- you know I have --
adam		Where's that airlines bag?
reggie		Lord, you're stubborn.
adam		I sure am. Get it.
adam		Charles must have had the money with him on the train, and Tex missed it.
reggie		But everyone and his Aunt Lilian's been through that bag. Somebody would have seen it.
adam		Let's look anyway.
reggie		Lord, you're stubborn.
adam		I mean, it's there, Reggie. If only we could see it. We're looking at it right now.
adam		Electric razor -- comb -- steamship ticket -- fountain pen -- four passports -- toothbrush -- wallet --  key -- what about that?
reggie		To the apartment -- it matches mine perfectly.
adam		The letter --
reggie		I'll bet you don't really need those.
reggie		You need them. 
adam		 It still doesn't make sense, but it isn't worth any quarter of a million either. Have we forgotten anything?
reggie		The tooth powder. Wait a minute -- could you recognize heroin just by tasting it?
adam		Heroin -- peppermint-flavored heroin.
reggie		Well, I guess that's it -- dead end.
adam		Go to bed. You've got to be at work in the morning. There's nothing more we can do tonight.
reggie		 I love you, Adam.
adam		Yes, you told me.
reggie		No -- last time I said "I love you, Alex."
italian delegate		-- di conseguenza, il Governo Italiano decisamente a favore per l'incoraggiamento, in accordo con le tradizioni etniche rispettive delle culture basilari dei passi in via di sviluppo. Per esempio, pregare i Vietnamiti di aggiungere alle loro risaie ed ai loro campi di soja tradizionali una raccolta di semola, non solo sconvolgerebbe le loro secolari tradizioni ma, oltre tutto, e questo  molto importante per il Governo che io ho l'onore di rappresentare disturberebbe l'esportazione delle derrate farinose italiane in questa parte del mondo. Signori Delegati vi ringrazio della vostra attenzione.
reggie		I hope Jean-Louis understands about last night -- it's just not safe for him to be around me right now.
sylvie		Don't be silly -- he would not do anything. He is not yet old enough to be interested in girls. He says collecting stamps is much more satisfying to a man of his age.
reggie		Hold it -- Italy just finished. They're recognizing Great Britain.
sylvie		Oh la vache!
british delegate		Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates -- my distinguished colleague from Italy. Her Majesty's delegation has listened with great patience to the Southern European position on this problem, and while we find it charmingly stated, we cannot possibly agree with its content. In 1937, in the British colonies of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika -- and, if I'm not mistaken, more or less in Somaliland -- a programme of crop rotation was instituted vis--vis arable land which had never before known the plough, beginning before the soil was able to know the sort of fatigue now plaguing most of Western Europe. In 1937, therefore, Her Majesty's Government -- at that time His Majesty's Government -- was able to properly assay the situation. We therefore oppose the resolution.
adam		Reggie -- I think I've found --  are you on?
reggie		No, it's all right. What's wrong, Adam?
adam		Nothing's wrong. I think I found something. I was snooping around Tex's room and I found this in the waste basket. I've stuck it back together.
adam		You didn't look. Last night, when we went through the airlines bag, something was missing. See -- ?  "One agenda." It wasn't there.
reggie		You're right. I remember Grandpierre looking through it. But there was nothing in it -- at least, nothing that the police thought was very important.
adam		Can you remember anything at all?
reggie		Grandpierre asked me about an appointment Charles had -- on the day he was killed.
adam		With whom? Where?
reggie		I think it only said where -- but I can't --
adam		Think, Reggie, you've got to think -- it may be what we're looking for.
reggie		That money's not ours, Adam -- if we keep it, we'll be breaking the law.
adam		Nonsense. We didn't steal it. There's no law against stealing stolen money.
reggie		Of course there is!
adam		There is? Well, I can't say I think very much of a silly law like that. Think, Reggie -- please think -- what was written in Charles' notebook?
reggie		Well -- it was a place -- a street corner, I think. But I don't --  Hold it. I'm on.
reggie		 Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates -- my distinguished colleague from Great Britain --
french delegate		Monsieur le Prsident, Messieurs les dlgus -- mon distingu collgue de la Grande Bretagne -- le problme vu par mon Gouvernement n'est pas aussi simple que nos amis les Anglais voudraient nous le faire croire. Mais leur pays n'est pas, aprs tout, un pays agricole, n'est-ce pas? La position franaise, ainsi que nous l'avons souligne dans le rapport numro trente-neuf bar oblique cinquante-deux de la Confrence de l'hmisphre occidental qui a eu lieu le 22 mars --
reggie		as outlined in report number three- nine-stroke-five-two of the Western Hemisphere Conference held on March 22 --  no wait! It was last Thursday, five o'clock at the Jardin des Champs- lyses! Adam -- that was it! The garden!
adam		It's Thursday today -- and it's almost five -- come on!
reggie		Now what?
adam		Five o'clock -- Thursday -- the Garden -- it's got to be something around here.
reggie		But Charles' appointment was last week, not --
adam		I know, but this is all we've got left.
reggie		Well, you're right there. Ten minutes ago I had a job.
adam		Stop grousing. If we find the money I'll buy you an international conference all your own. Now start looking. You take this side and I'll poke around over there.
reggie		It's hopeless -- I don't even know what we're looking for.
adam		It's all right -- I don't think Tex does, either.
reggie		Tex? You mean he's here, too?
adam		Look.
adam		I'd better see what he's up to. Stay here -- I won't be long.
reggie		 Be careful, Adam -- please. He's already killed three men.
tex		Sorry, fella --
adam		 The letter.
adam		Taxi! -- Taxi!
adam		 All right -- where's the letter?
tex		The letter? The letter ain't worth nuthin'.
adam		You know what I mean -- the envelope with the stamps. I want it.
tex		 You greenhorn -- you half-witted, thick-skulled, hare-brained, greenhorn! They wuz both too smart for us!
adam		What are you talking about?
tex		First her husband, now her -- she hoodwinked you! She batted all them big eyes and you went 'n fell for it - like a egg from a tall chicken! Here!  You want? Here -- it's yours!
tex		Look at you! Horn-swoggled by a purty face 'n all them sweet words! You killed all three of 'em for nothin'! You greenhorn! You block-headed jackass! You clod -- you booby -- you nincompoop -- !
reggie		Sylvie -- ? What are you doing here?
sylvie		 Hello, Reggie -- I am waiting for Jean-Louis.
reggie		 What's he up to?
sylvie		He was so excited -- when he got the stamps you gave him this morning. He said he had never seen any like them.
reggie		I'm glad. But what's all this?
sylvie		The stamp market, of course -- it is here every Thursday afternoon. This is where Jean-Louis trades his --
reggie		 Good Lord! The stamps! Where is he? Sylvie -- we've got to find him!
sylvie		What's the matter, chrie?
reggie		Those stamps -- they're worth a fortune!
sylvie		 What?
reggie		A fortune! Hurry -- we've got to find him!
reggie		I don't see him.
sylvie		We will separate -- you look over there.
sylvie		 Jean-Louis -- ?
reggie		Jean-Louis!
sylvie		Jean-Louis!
sylvie		Jean-Louis -- les timbrs -- o sont- ils?
sylvie		Oh, zut!  Reggie -- Reggie -- !
reggie		Jean-Louis -- thank heavens! Do you have -- !  What's that?
reggie		Oh no! What man, Jean-Louis --  where?
sylvie		Vite, mon ange -- vite!
reggie		I don't blame him. Jean-Louis -- do you know where this Monsieur Flix lives?
thophile		Oui, jeune homme?
thophile		A Montmartre -- demande  Monsieur August au Bar des Artistes -- Place Blanche.
flix		Entrez.
reggie		Monsieur Flix -- ?
flix		 I was expecting you. You are American too, of course.
reggie		 Yes.
flix		The man who bought them last week was American. I did not see him but I heard. I knew you would come.
flix		Look at them, Madame.
reggie		I'm -- I'm sorry -- I don't know anything about stamps.
flix		I know them as one knows his own face, even though I have never seen them. This yellow one -- a Swedish four shilling -- called 'De Gula
reggie		How much is it worth?
flix		The money is unimportant.
reggie		I'm afraid it is important.
reggie		Do you mind if I sit down?  What about the blue one?
flix		It is called 'The Hawaiian Blue' and there are only seven left. In 1894 the owner of one was murdered by a rival collector who was obsessed to own it.
reggie		What's its value today?
flix		In human life? In greed? In suffering?
reggie		In money.
flix		Forty-five thousand.
reggie		 And the orange one -- what about the orange one?
flix		A two-penny Mauritius -- issued in 1856. Not so rare as the others -- $30,000 perhaps.
reggie		And the last one?
flix		The best for the last -- le chef- d'oeuvre de la collection. The masterpiece. It is the most valuable stamp in the world. It is called 'The Gazette Guyanne.' It was printed by hand on colored paper in 1852 and marked with the initials of the printer.  Eh, bien -- I am not a thief. I knew there was some mistake. Take them.
reggie		 You gave the boy quite a lot of stamps in return, Monsieur Flix -- are they for sale now?
flix		 Let me see. There are 350 European, 200 Asian, 175 American, 100 African and twelve Princess Grace commemorative -- which comes to nine francs fifty.
reggie		 Here's ten.
reggie		Please keep it.
flix		I am a tradesman, Madame, not a doorman. And don't forget these.
reggie		I'm -- I'm sorry.
flix		No. For a few minutes they were mine -- that is enough.
reggie		Adam? Adam? It's me, Reggie -- !
reggie		 Dyle --
reggie		 Mr. Bartholomew! Thank God you're there! Tex is dead, Mr. Bartholomew -- smothered -- and Adam did it -- he killed them all!
bartholomew		Just a minute, Mrs. Lampert -- you'd better give that to me slowly. Who's Adam?
reggie		 The one who said he was Dyle's brother -- of course I'm sure -- Tex wrote the word 'Dyle' before he died. He's the murderer I tell you -- he's the only one left! You've got to do something!
bartholomew		 Calm down, Mrs. Lampert -- please. Does he have the money?
reggie		 No, I do -- it was the stamps on that letter Charles had with him on the train. They were in plain sight all the time, but no one ever bothered looking at the envelope.
bartholomew		 The envelope -- imagine that.  Mrs. Lampert, listen to me -- you're not safe as long as you've got these stamps. Go to the Embassy right away -- wait, I'd better meet you halfway -- it's quicker. Now, let's see -- do you know the center garden at the Palais Royal? -- yes, by the colonnade -- as soon as you can get there. Hurry, Mrs. Lampert.
reggie		 Yes, I'm leaving now -- goodbye.
adam		Reggie -- the stamps -- what've you done with --?
adam		Where are you going? Wait!
adam		Reggie!
adam		Reggie!
adam		Reggie -- stop!
reggie		Why? So you can kill me too? Tex is dead, I've seen him! He said Dyle did it!
adam		I'm not Dyle -- you know that!
reggie		But Tex didn't -- he still thought -- !
adam		Don't be an idiot!
adam		Reggie -- ! I want those stamps!
reggie		 Palais Royal -- vite!
driver		 Porte d'Italie, moi.
reggie		Mais c'est trs vite! On veut me teur!
driver		 Italie.
guard		Billet, Monsieur.
adam		 I don't want to go anywhere -- I'm only trying --
guard		 Billet, Monsieur.
reggie		 Come on -- please --
train guard		Billet, Monsieur.
train guard		Vous tes dans le premier classe, Monsieur.
adam		What?
train guard		 This car is for first class only -- you have a second-class ticket.
adam		But that's what they gave me.
gendarme		Monsieur -- ?
reggie		Embassies -- embassies --
reggie		Shh.  American Embassy? Mr. Bartholomew's office, please -- Mr. Bartholomew's office --
operator		Could you speak out, please? I can't quite hear you.
reggie		 No, I can't speak any louder -- Hamilton Bartholomew -- B as in -- uh -- Bartholomew -- that's right, and the rest as in Bartholomew!
operator		 I'm sorry, but Mr. Bartholomew has left for the day.
reggie		 But someone's trying to kill me -- you've got to send word to him -- in the center garden of the Palais Royal, by the colonnade -- tell him I'm trapped in a phone booth, below him in the Mtro station. And my name's Lampert.
operator		 All right, Mrs. Lampert -- I'll see what I can do. Goodbye.
operator		Hello, Mr. Bartholomew? -- there was a call for you just now, Mr. Bartholomew -- it sounded quite urgent -- a Mrs. Lampert.
real bartholomew		Lampert? I don't know any Mrs. Lampert -- trapped in a Mtro station? Who does she think I am, the C.I.A.? All right, you'd better call the French police.
adam		 Reggie -- !
adam		 Reggie -- wait!
adam		Reggie -- why won't you listen?
reggie		I'm through listening to you!
adam		But I didn't kill anybody.
reggie		Then who did? You're the only one left.
adam		Reggie -- please believe me!
reggie		No!
reggie		Mr. Bartholomew -- he's chasing me!
adam		Reggie -- stop! That's Carson Dyle!
reggie		 Carson -- ?
adam		It's Carson Dyle, I tell you!
adam		Tex recognized him -- that's why he said Dyle. If you give him those stamps, he'll kill you too!
adam		Because he'd have to come out to get the stamps -- he knows he'd never make it.
reggie		 He's -- with the C.I.A. -- I've seen him at the Embassy.
adam		Don't be a fool! He's Carson Dyle!
reggie		I don't know who anybody is any more!
adam		Reggie -- listen to me!
reggie		You lied to me so many times --
adam		 Reggie -- trust me once more -- please.
reggie		Can I really believe you this time, Adam?
adam		 There's not a reason on earth why you should.
reggie		All right, Adam.
adam		It won't get you the stamps, Dyle -- You'll have to come out to get them, and I'm not likely to miss at this range.
carson		I'll give you five to make up your mind, Mrs. Lampert.
reggie		Wait, please! I need some time to think!
carson		One --
carson		-- four --
reggie		Adam -- please!
carson		All right, Mrs. Lampert. The game's over. Come out of there.
carson		I don't want to kill you, Mrs. Lampert -- but I will --
carson		Did you hear me, Mrs. Lampert -- ?
grandpierre		Mr. Dyle -- you are under arrest for the murders of Charles Lampert, Herman Scobie, Joseph Penthollow, Leopold Gideon, and whoever that is down there.
adam		Reggie -- you'd better tell him. He wouldn't dare hit a girl.
reggie		You didn't have to chase me so hard --
adam		Here, give it to me.
reggie		That one's done -- start on this one.
reggie		I'm sorry I thought you were the murderer, Adam -- how did I know that he was as big a liar as you are?
adam		And that's all the gratitude I get for saving your hide.
reggie		The truth, now -- was it my hide -- or the stamps?
adam		What a terrible thing to say. How could you even think that?
reggie		All right, prove it to me -- tell me to go to the Embassy first thing in the morning and turn in those stamps.
reggie		I said, tell me to go to the --
adam		I heard you, I heard you.
reggie		Then say it.
adam		Reggie -- listen to me --
reggie		Never mind -- I'll go by myself.
adam		What makes you think they're even interested? It's only a quarter of a million -- it'll cost more than that to fix up their bookkeeping. As a taxpayer --
reggie		 Who's a taxpayer? Crooks don't pay taxes.  Excuse me, soldier --
marine		Marine, ma'am.
reggie		Forgive me. Whom would I see regarding the return of stolen Government money?
marine		You might try the Treasury Department, ma'am -- Room 216, second floor, Mr. Cruikshank.
adam		Do you mind if I wait out here? The sight of all that money being given away might make me break out.
reggie		Mr. Cruikshank, please -- my name is Lampert.
secretary		Mr. Cruikshank, a Miss --
reggie		Mrs.
secretary		-- a Mrs. Lampert to see you -- yes sir.  Go right in.
reggie		 Well, of all the mean, rotten, contemptible, crooked --
cruikshank		Crooked? I should think you'd be glad to find out I wasn't crooked.
reggie		You couldn't even be honest about being dishonest. Why didn't you say something?
cruikshank		We're not allowed to tell. May I have the stamps, please?
reggie		 Wait a minute -- how did Carson Dyle get an office in here, anyway?
cruikshank		When did you see him -- what time, I mean?
reggie		Around one.
cruikshank		The lunch hour. He probably worked it out in advance. He found an office that was usually left open and just moved in for the time you were here.
reggie		Then how do I know this is your office?
cruikshank		 Mrs. Foster -- send a memo to Bartholomew at Security recommending that --
reggie		Bartholomew?
cruikshank		-- recommending that all Embassy offices be locked during the lunch hour.
reggie		Starting with his own.
cruikshank		 Okay, now -- hand over those stamps.
reggie		What's your first name today?
cruikshank		Brian.
reggie		Brian Cruikshank -- it would serve me right if I got stuck with that one.
cruikshank		Who asked you to get stuck with any of them?
reggie		Is there a Mrs. Cruikshank?
cruikshank		Yes.
reggie		But you're -- divorced?
cruikshank		No.
reggie		 Oh.
cruikshank		My mother -- she lives in Detroit. Come on now -- give me those stamps.
reggie		Only if you can prove to me that you're really Brian Cruikshank.
cruikshank		How about if next week some time I put it on a marriage license -- that ought to --
reggie		Quit stalling -- I want to see some identification -- now!
cruikshank		I wouldn't lie on a thing like that -- I could go to jail.
reggie		You'd lie about anything.
cruikshank		Well, maybe we'd better forget about it, then.
reggie		You can't prove it, can you? You're still trying to --  marriage license! Did you say -- ?
cruikshank		I didn't say anything. Will you give me those stamps?
reggie		You did too say it -- I heard you. Oh, I love you Adam -- I mean Alex -- er, Peter -- Brian. I hope we have lots of boys -- we can name them all after you.
cruikshank		Before we start on that, do you mind handing over the stamps?
charade		 Music by Henry Mancini, Words by Johnny Mercer  When we played our Charade we were like children posing, Playing at games, acting out names, guessing the parts we played.  Oh, what a hit we made. We came on next to closing Best on the bill, lovers until love left the masquerade.  Fate seemed to pull the strings, I turned and you were gone.  While from the darkened wings the music box played on.  Sad little serenade, song of my heart's composing, I hear it still, I always will, best on the bill Charade.
****Dialogues from script :Charlie_s_Angels.txt****

early draft		 August 11, 1999  CHARLIE'S ANGELS - 8/18/99
flight attendant		I'm sorry, sir. This cabin is restricted to first cl...
flight attendant		Oh, I'm sorry. Please. Is there anything I can get you?
pasqual		 They say birds can't fly this high.
flight attendant		Shall I pour your scotch?
pasqual		Be careful with it, huh?
pasqual		Well, what're you gonna do?
pasqual		That's very funny.
pasqual		You crazy bastard!
dylan		 Don't need this anymore.
bosley		Well, Angels, the experimental explosives are back in the hands of the government, and the free world can breathe just a lit-tle bit easier tonight, thanks to you three.
natalie		And thanks to you, too, Bos.
alex		We couldn't have redirected the flight path without your help.
bosley		Nothing a little teamwork can't do. At least, that's what Charlie's always telling us, right ladies?
dylan		Charlie will be joining us, won't he?
bosley		He sends his regrets. But he wanted you to know that dinner is on him, so feel free to celebrate.
alex		If it's on Charlie, we will.
dylan		Hi.  Hi.   Okay. I'll be right in.
the voice		'Morning starfish.
dylan		Oh God no.
chad		Hungry?
dylan		It's a mistake. A horrible, horrible mistake.
chad		Then how come we keep getting back together? It's fate.
chad		 Is it because I live on a boat?
jason		Get off my back, Sanchez.   I know what I'm doing.
alex		Which wire?   The red one or the blue one?
jason		Marix has a thing for red. Red cars, red boats, red-headed hookers.
alex		So the red one.
jason		That's why I'm gonna say blue.
alex		You saved the world again, Logan.
jason		That's my job.
alex		Let's have it rewritten.
jason		So when you coming back?
alex		Not sure.   Whenever I can.      I'll call you.
jason		Oh, great, that's helpful.  I don't get it, what kind of executive assistant is on 24 hour call?
alex		A very good one.
jason		You ask me, your boss is an asshole. 
alex		Charlie's not very social.
jason		Yeah, well I think you should quit.
alex		Charlie needs me.
jason		I need you.
jason		I gotta go save the world.
alex		My hero.
bob		 What!   Natalie, what?
natalie		I thought you were dead.
bob		I'm not...
natalie		 Hello. Absolutely. I'll be right in.
natalie		But you can understand why I thought so. You missed our date last night. You didn't call or anything. I was just sitting there by myself.
bob		I can explain.
blonde		Bobby?
isaac hayes		Bobby?
bob		Damn.
natalie		Just once, I want to date a normal man, without a wife, or a drug addiction, or bondage issues.
dylan		Here here.
dylan		Your boyfriend thinks you're a secretary.
alex		That way, he doesn't ask about my work.
natalie		I'm sorry, Bosley. I only made enough for three.
bosley		No, that's...That's okay.
angels		 Good morning, Charlie.
charlie's voice		I'm sorry to call you back from vacation, but we've got a case that just can't wait.
natalie		He's cute.
bosley		He is.
charlie's voice		He's 28-years old, and in three days he'll be a billionaire, when his company, Knox Technologies, goes public.
dylan		It's good to be him.
alex		So what's the catch?
charlie's voice		Last night, Knox was kidnapped from his own office.
charlie's voice		No one's heard a thing from the kidnappers.
charlie's voice		Angels, meet Vivian Wu, vice president of finance for Knox Technologies. She's hired us to find Knox.
vivian wu		 The initial public offering is in three days. If we don't get Mr. Knox back, or if word gets out that he's missing, the company stands to lose a billion dollars.
alex		Charlie, where do we start?
charlie's voice		Alex, I want you and Bosley to stake out Roger Corwin.
alex		Kidnap the founder and you sink the company. 
charlie's voice		Exactly, Alex. Let's keep our eyes on Mr. Corwin, Angels. If Knox is still alive, Corwin might lead us to him.
dylan		We're on it.
natalie		Any chance you can join us, Charlie?
alex		This is a transmitter. I'll be able to hear everything you say.
bosley		Where do I hide it?  I'll be nude.
bosley		Understood.
alex		I know.   You'll do great.
bosley		Hot in here, isn't it?
corwin		Computers.   Software.
bosley		Computers, hunh? What do you know about this new browser from Knox Technologies?
corwin		I don't see that happening.
bosley		Really?   Why not?
masseuse		 Please to take off clothes, Mr. Corvin.
alex		You're carrying a lot of tension along ze fourth und fifth vertebrae. Let me see if I can vork it out.
alex		You must have dozed off.
natalie		Can you not drive my car so fast, Dyl? I'm trying to type.
dylan		 I drive too fast. Look who's talking.
natalie		Here's Corwin's itinerary.
dylan		Alright, we'll hit the reception tonight. I only wish we had a clue to go on.
natalie		Hold that thought.
dylan		Sorry.
natalie		Check this out. New program I just got from a friend in the Bureau. We take that footage from the kidnapping...
dylan		Sweet. Now we've got someone to look for.
alex		Oh yeah. He'll be easy to spot with that open head wound.
dylan		The average investor sees technology stocks as discrete entities, "This one is up 50 points, this one is down 10." It's only through derivative analysis that one sees the real power of that sector.
broker guy		Which analysis method do you prefer?
dylan		Well, there are so many options. I mean, who can say what the one best choice is?
natalie		Keppler-Wilson.
dylan		For my money, Keppler-Wilson is a strong choice.
natalie		Anytime.
natalie		 Anytime, day or night, I am... excited ... to be handing out champagne.
dylan		He's cute.
natalie		I'm working.
dylan		Sixty-five percent of relationships begin in the workplace.
natalie		He's a bartender. I need dependable. I need reliable. I need a Volvo man.
natalie		Miss!   Miss!   I'd love some champagne.
natalie		What are you reading?
pete		You know Michio Kazura?
natalie		Hello?    Warriors of the Broken Earth?   Classic.
pete		I know. I just moved back from Tokyo. It was the biggest thing since Haikiri Nomura.
natalie		Tomuru nasgawa ishi Tokyo sen! PETE Nagada quing-gong ni.     Ni zeru. Imagine that.    Natalie takes her tray and reluctantly heads off.
dylan		Ask him out.   Ask him out.
natalie		I'm Natalie.
pete		Pete.    Good to meet you.
natalie		Listen, there's an animation festival at the Egyptian this week. I was wondering if you might want to...
pete		Tomorrow night? Eight o'clock? 
dylan		Pardon me.
natalie		I'm on it.
natalie		 Vegetarian spring roll?
dylan		You call it.
natalie		You take point. I'll circle behind.
dylan		Copy.
dylan		He's going down.
natalie		That way. 
natalie		There are times I wish we carried guns.
dylan		Where's the challenge in that?
natalie		Hey!    Hands off, assh....
natalie		Okay, to summarize? Damn.
bosley		Well.   That was easy.
natalie		No, it wasn't.
bosley		In English?
natalie		We need to tap this phone line at the source, THEN we'll know where his calls were coming from.
dylan		 503?   That's not local, where is it?
natalie		Bos, can we check a directory?
alex		Don't bother. I know where it is. I used to spend every winter there.
dylan		Eyes on the prize, Nat.   We gotta tap the phones.
alex		That looks like our target.
dylan		I think that can be arranged.
redneck		Hey baby, why don't you ditch that stiff and come sit on ma lap?
dylan		Ooh, that is an enticing offer. But I got a better idea. How about a shot contest? My treat?
natalie		Mind if I try?
redneck		Hunh?
dylan		Chair throwing? Never heard of it? You just pick up your chair and throw it as far as you can.
thug one		We expecting somebody? 
dylan		Guten Tag!
natalie		 Guten Morgen!
dylan		 Guten Nacht!
thug two		 They got the wrong address.
thug one		Shut up.
alex		Where's Knox?
knox		Who are you?
alex		The calvary.     Giddy up.
alex		Sorry.    Wrong room.  Back!    Run!
bosley		Alex, what's your status?
alex		Good news:   I found Knox.
dylan		This way.
alex		They're coming after us.
dylan		 We were expecting that.
natalie		Okay, new problem.
bosley		I don't suppose giving up would be a...
dylan		Right!
natalie		There is no right.
dylan		There! 
dylan		Where are we?
alex		It's a bobsled run.
natalie		If it goes down the mountain, that's all I need.
alex		 Hard left! HARD LEFT!
knox		 Is this part of the plan?
dylan		Yes. Except for the bobsled run, and the backwards part, it's going exactly according to plan.
dylan		I think we're in the clear.
dylan		Or maybe not.
natalie		Oh God, no.
dylan		What is it?
natalie		I have a date with Pete.   Right now.
dylan		Ouch.
alex		HARD RIGHT!
dylan		Call him, he'll totally understand.
natalie		"Gee, sorry Pete. I had to rescue a billionaire." 
alex		Hard left!
natalie		I'll sound like a flake.   I can't stand flakes.
dylan		He will so give you the second chance.
natalie		You think?
dylan		Hello, I saw the way he looked at you.
alex		We're at the bottom!
dylan		 Well done.
knox		Thanks.
bosley		I think that went very well. Charlie should send me on more missions.
alex		We couldn't have done it without you, Bos.
dylan		Cocktail?
charlie's voice		Good work, Angels. Not only did you save Knox, you saved his company as well.
dylan		I think that earns us a vacation.
natalie		Say, Fiji?
alex		 Any special guy you were thinking of inviting?
charlie's voice		Sorry, Angels.     Our work is only half-done.
knox		First off, thank you. You rescued me, for which I am eternally grateful.
charlie's voice		That's where you come in, Angels.
natalie		Sounds like a plan.
charlie's voice		Not as easy as that, Natalie. Red Star's headquarters are as tightly guarded as a military facility. We're going to need reconnaissance on their mainframe computer system, and the best way to get that is through Mr. Corwin himself.
alex		Consider it done.
charlie's voice		Dylan, I need you to arrange for Mr. Knox's security. I'd hate to have him kidnapped again.
dylan		Absolutely. But we'd all feel safer if you could join us, Charlie.
charlie		I'd love to Angels. But I'm in a bit over my head at the moment.
dylan		I've got surveillance on all the windows. Don't answer the door, don't answer the phone.
dylan		Also, stay away from the windows.
knox		They're bullet-proof.   The last owner was paranoid.
dylan		 Lucky for us.
knox		Which one of you?
dylan		Whoever's closest.
knox		I have a better idea.
dylan		What? 
knox		Stay for dinner.  I'm a pretty good cook.
dylan		I can't Mr. Knox. I'm sorry.     If you...
knox		 I'm scared.
dylan		Don't be.
dylan		That's you, hunh? Cute kid.    Cute family.
knox		Thanks.  It's the only picture I have of me with my parents. They died a week later.
dylan		Oh.   Oh, I'm sorry. I had no idea...
knox		Please, don't apologize. I was too young to understand.  I never knew how they died. When I was a kid, when I got shuffled from one foster home to another, I always thought they just disappeared.
dylan		But...?
knox		I only found out later, my father was in the military. He and my mother were killed while he was on assignment, somewhere in Eastern Europe.  The files were classified, but I read enough to know that he was a good man. Apparently, he was betrayed by one of his own team.
dylan		Wow.   That's a lot for a kid to live with.
knox		Yeah, but it motivated me, losing my family. It still does. I don't take anything for granted.
dylan		Boy did I have you pegged wrong.
knox		 How do you mean?
dylan		Well, to be honest, I thought you were a rich kid who inherited everything. But that's pretty typical. I've got instincts for the job, but when it comes to men? Well...
knox		I'm glad you don't see me as just a client.
dylan		Oh.   Well, you ARE, so...
knox		Is there someone you need to be going home to?
dylan		No.  But I...
knox		Shouldn't you?
dylan		 No.   I shouldn't.
corwin		What the...?
pit boss		 CAN'T BELIEVE YOU'VE NEVER RACED THIS TRACK BEFORE!
natalie		 BACK WHERE AH'M FROM, WE RACE IN SWAMPS AND BACK ROADS! THIS ALL'S A PIECE A CAKE!
dylan		I'm on it.
corwin		LET'S GO!    WE'RE LOSING TIME HERE!
thin man		You okay, Boss?
corwin		No thanks to you! You're supposed to be my head of security! Who is that bitch?!
thin man		Don't know.   I'll keep an eye out.
corwin		Yeah.   You do that.
bosley		Let's make the switch.
knox		There!
charlie's voice		So if we want to find proof that Red Star stole Knox's technology, that's the computer to tap.
knox		Exactly. But they have heavy firewalls and encryption. You can't jack in from outside. You'll have to physically be in that room to get at the data.
alex		Even if we do get inside, there won't be time to search for it. There's got to be a hundred terabytes of information there. It could take days.
natalie		So you install a transmitter.
vivian wu		That's all fine in theory. But you still have to get inside that room to install it. What about security?
alex		Red Star has a lot of Government contracts, so security is tight. Key- card badges throughout. Redundant security at all red-line areas with biometric scanners and weekly keycodes. Pervasive video surveillance, lasers, air-displacement sensors. Plus a hard- wired fail-safe at the relay to prevent exactly this kind of tapping.
vivian wu		It sounds impossible.
dylan		It sounds like fun.
a voice		Tommy? You gonna let me through or what?
alex		It's done. Red Star's mainframe is open for business. 
dylan		 Champagne, please. Your best.
knox		Now I know why I hired you.   You're the best.
vivian wu		 I'll have Systems get to work on this right away.
bosley		Uh, actually Miss Wu, WE will get to work on this right away. Any evidence we find will be turned over to you AND the proper authorities.
vivian wu		I don't think you understand how important that data is, Mr...
bosley		Oh, indeed I do. And that's why I'll take very good care of it when I find it.
vivian wu		 But...
knox		Vivian, please. Do as the man says.
dylan		Where you off to, Bos?
bosley		Vacation.
natalie		Uh oh, lemme guess. You're off to chase bikinis at some tropical resort? 
bosley		Exactly!   Fire Island, here I come!
knox		More champagne?
natalie		Have to go.   Plans tonight.
alex		Me too.
knox		 And you?
dylan		Um... well...
natalie		Hey Dylan, can we talk to you for a second?
dylan		So what, so I like him.   Is that so wrong?
natalie		Uh, yeah Dylan, it IS.    He's a client. 
alex		She's got a point.
natalie		What? She doesn't have ANY point, Alex, I can't believe you're siding with her.
alex		I'm not siding with anyone, but technically, he is no longer...
natalie		You know Charlie would NEVER approve of this.
alex		Oh come on, Charlie wouldn't care. I think you're just being overly cautious.
dylan		Uh, guys?   GUYS!
vivian wu		NO! Not until I've got the information I need. We'll take him to the compound, hold him there.  In the meantime, we've got to tie up some loose ends.
thin man		Whenever you say something like that, it means more work for me.
vivian wu		 The Angels will figure out they were duped. We can't afford them jeopardizing our plans.
vivian wu		 We have to Kill Charlie's Angels.
alex		Me too.
jason		No, I mean, it's weird. It's weirding me out how happy I am when you're around. Am I sick or something?
alex		 Got me.
jason		The only bummer is, I start to jones when you're not around. What the hell am I gonna do this weekend, if you're not with me?
alex		We'll get you some sedatives. You'll be fine.
jason		Hey.   Wait a second.   Come with me!
alex		Come with you?
jason		Miami, on the Sony Jet. I've got two tickets to the Final Four.
alex		Jason, I don't...
jason		Wait, before you say no, let me just say something, okay? I'm sick of how little we see each other. I'm sick of stealing a day here, or a week there.
alex		It's my job, Jason. I can't explain it, but I have to be on call, all the time, and...
jason		What if I changed all that? 
alex		Gunfire!   Get down!
jason		Fine.  I'm fine.  They're squibs, it's fake.   See?
alex		Sorry about that, I...
jason		 Alright, I gotta go reset these. DON'T GO ANYWHERE. I want to finish this conversation.
alex		Nice, Alex.   Real nice.
jason		Alex?     ALEX?
natalie		Thanks for the second chance. I swear, I'm really not a flake.
pete		How can I deny any woman who's seen all 23 "Lords of Wind and Power"?
natalie		I bet there's a dozen women here who fit that description.
pete		Honestly -- there's a looks component as well.
pete		You're the most beautiful woman I've ever seen this close up.
natalie		Ladies room.    I'll be back in two minutes.
pete		I'll be here.
natalie		Who do you work for?
the man		 Jacket pocket.
natalie		National Security Agency?   You're with the NSA?
the man		I've been following you. I didn't know which side you were on.  This is bigger than you think.
natalie		I'm so sorry, but I have to go. I can't explain. 
dylan		Where's that music coming from?
knox		You'll see.    Just a little farther.
dylan		Oh...  Oh wow.
knox		Can I ask you a personal question?
dylan		Maybe.
knox		How much do you know about Charlie?
dylan		Well, I don't know what he looks like, but I feel like I know him. We all do. 
dylan		Nope.
knox		And you're never curious to find out?
dylan		Of course, but believe me, it's impossible. I've tried.  Let's not talk about Charlie, okay? Or work.
dylan		Eric, it's Vivian.
knox		Hmmm.    I wonder what she's here for?
dylan		Want me to tell her to come back, or...
knox		No, no.  I'd better deal.  You go back to bed.
dylan		Hello?
natalie		Dylan, we were set up. Vivian Wu is not who she says she is. She's a former assassin and an all around bitch.
dylan		Oh no.   OH SHIT. Natalie, she's HERE!
natalie		What?!
dylan		I'm at Knox's, she just showed up!
natalie		I'm ten minutes away. Wait until I get there.
dylan		I can't do that. Call Alex and meet me here.
natalie		Dylan...
vivian wu		I see you take your bodyguarding services seriously. Still, I worry that no one is watching the door.
dylan		 Oh, I'm watching it.     In fact, I just called for back up.
vivian wu		All the same, I'm concerned about Mr. Knox's safety. 
knox		 Vivian just came over to run through some numbers for the IPO.
vivian wu		Please, take a seat. I'm almost finished.
dylan		I'm not much for games.
vivian wu		Pity.
knox		Sorry Dylan. I knew this moment would come sooner or later. I was just hoping for later.
dylan		All this time, we thought Red Star was behind this, but it was you.  You faked your kidnapping.
knox		To gain your trust. And get your help.  I want you to know, my personal attraction to you was a sincere and unrelated complication.
dylan		Oh, well, in that case I feel a lot better about you being a lying pole smoker.
knox		Why not? You trust Charlie and you've never even met him.
vivian wu		Oh, shut up.
vivian wu		She can't have survived.   It's too far. 
knox		We've got more important things to do.
dylan		I can't believe Knox tried to kill me. I mean, I've been lied to, I've been cheated on, but no guy has ever tried to SHOOT me before.  I'm gonna get him for that.
alex		He played us from the very start. It was all just so he could get us to tap into Red Star. He couldn't figure out a way to do it himself.
natalie		Who knew that we are actually tapping into the main servers for The National Security Agency?
dylan		And now, thanks to us, he's had hours to download whatever top secret information he wants, for God knows what reason.
alex		What?
natalie		That laptop was the only way to access the transmitter. And we gave the laptop to...
angels		Bosley!
alex		Come on, Bosley, answer.  I've tried all his numbers and paged him five times. No answer.
natalie		I don't even want to think about what I'm thinking right now.
dylan		Don't!  He's alive, he's gotta be.   If...  What IS that?
bosley		I know you can't answer, but... I really hope you can hear this.
dylan		Can we trace him?
natalie		Not off a boosted signal. We'd have to be within 20 miles.
alex		Come on, Bosley. Tell us where you are.
bosley		I don't know where I am, really. I'm in a round room. The walls are white. Well. Not white-white. More of a cream, or an eggshell. Vanilla. Yes, I'm going to say vanilla.
alex		Bingo.
bosley		I don't know which ocean. I was blindfolded the whole time. We were flying. It must've been three or four hours. Maybe more.
dylan		 He could be anywhere in North America.
bosley		Wherever it is, they have really good pudding.
dylan		 What, pudding?
natalie		Hear that? That's a blue spotted egret. They only live in one place.
alex		Florida.
knox		Well?
thin man		Our access was cut off at the source.
knox		GODDAMNIT!
thin man		But not before we retrieved the information you wanted. 
knox		Finally.  How about Bosley? Did we get the information we wanted?
thin man		Once we we drugged him, he sang like a bird.
knox		Hmmm. Miami Arena.    Preparations have been made?
thin man		Yes.    We move out tonight.
knox		Excellent.  Where IS Bosley?
thin man		In the tower. We were waiting till you gave the word.
knox		Well?    No time like the present.
henchman		Sir?    You should take a look at this.
thin man		It's not moving.  Oh, this is the oldest one in the book. Punch up camera three.
dylan		Oh yeah? And I suppose you could do better? 
thin man		Yeah, I sure as hell could.
dylan		Oh, right.
thin man		How about an underwater entry? Or hang gliding over the main tower? There's a million good ways in, if you just do your homework.
alex		You heard the man.
natalie		Nice work, Dyl.
thin man		Present for you, sir.
knox		Dylan, how nice. Welcome to my Florida home. Not as tasteful as the one in LA, but much more private.
dylan		So tell me, Knox, what's the brilliant plan? You gonna sell a list of our foreign spies to the highest bidder? Blackmail the President?
knox		The first plan is too complicated, and the second is virtually impossible. 
dylan		Revenge?   Against who?
knox		You know what? I'm not in a gabby mood right now. I've got a score to settle.
dylan		Seems like you're going a bit overboard.
knox		No, just leaving myself plenty of margin for error. Goodbye, Dylan.
dylan		I don't know why you bother.   I've already won.
thin man		Is that so?
dylan		Every moment I sit here is a moment I'm using to figure out how to take you down. In fact, this statement -- this one I'm making right here-- is just me stalling for time while I decide which of your goons I'm going to flatten first.  It's gonna be the guy behind me.
dylan		By the time your guys are firing, I'll be at about 180 on my reverse inverted 360, which will land me on Fat Boy there, as promised.  Last, you guys -- hell, I'll make something up. We'll have fun.
dylan		You won't even be here. I mean, I don't want to tell you how to do your job, but you should've killed me by now. Because I already know that your people are onto my people, which means any moment now you're going to be called out to go and deal --
natalie		Bosley's close.
alex		You find him.    I'll get Dylan.
natalie		 BOSLEY! Bosley, can you hear me?
bosley		Natalie!   Is that you?
natalie		How do I get up to you?
bosley		There's a staircase. Look for a switch.
natalie		Hello?... Pete, hi! How are you?
pete		I'm good. I just -- you said you wanted me to call.
natalie		I did. I do.    I mean, thank you for calling.
pete		I'm not an insecure person or anything, and I've really enjoyed the very brief time we have spent together.
natalie		 Can you hold on a sec?
natalie		No.   Not at all.
pete		You just sound distracted.
natalie		You know, work this week has been really busy. It's been hard to focus.
pete		Natalie, what was that?
natalie		 Everything's fine!
vivian wu		Hate to disagree.
pete		 No, it's Pete.
natalie		You bitch!   I like that guy.
vivian wu		To be honest?
natalie		I can handle villainy. I can even handle super-villainy.  But what you did is just wrong.
dylan		Here we go.
bosley		Oh my God, let me help you.
knox		Let's GO!
natalie		Don't worry, we'll get him.
dylan		You don't understand. He's got a pound of C-5 in that briefcase.
alex		The question is, where's he headed?
dylan		Not that I don't believe you, but how exactly do you know all this?
bosley		Because Angels, I was the one who purchased those tickets.
natalie		But Bosley, you HATE sports, why would you...  You didn't buy them for yourself.
alex		You bought them for...
angels		CHARLIE!
dylan		What do you think he looks like? 
natalie		I always saw him as younger.
dylan		Definitely.   With black hair.
natalie		No, silver hair. And tan.
alex		He's not George Hamilton.
natalie		He's outside a lot.
dylan		We'll know him when we see him, that's for sure.
alex		IF we see him.
natalie		How hard can it be to spot Charlie?
dylan		Aw, shit.
alex		I'll take the luxury boxes.
dylan		I'll take the mezzanine.
natalie		I got the floor.
jason		Yes, yes!
alex		 Charlie!? Charles Townsend!
jason		Alex?
alex		Jason?  Shit.
jason		ALEX!    Hey...
dylan		 Charlie! Charlie!
natalie		Charlie?
likely candidate		Who?
alex		Charles Townsend? Anybody, Charles Townsend?
alex		Jason, hi, I...
jason		No you can talk to me NOW. I want to know what the hell is going on. First, you disappear with no explanation, not even a goodbye.
alex		I'm sorry, I...
jason		Now, I see you here, but you're with some other guy.
thin man		Hey, movie star, do yourself a favor and get lost.
jason		Lemme guess.   You must be Charlie?
alex		Jason, please... 
thin man		That was stupid.
alex		Jason, get down!
jason		What the hell is going on?
alex		Right now, just by leaning forward, I could crush your windpipe. You'd die a slow and painful death. You don't want that, do you? 
alex		Hi, Jason.   Gimme one second?
alex		I lied to you Jason.    I'm not a secretary.
jason		Yeah, I can see that.
alex		 And that wasn't Charlie.
jason		Right.
alex		I'm actually here to stop a madman from killing everyone in this building. Would it be okay if we talked later? 
jason		Go save the world, honey.  I'll be waiting for you.
referee		Time out!
dylan		 Alright, Dylan, all we have to do is figure out which wire to cut.
alex		You're kidding me.
dylan		Chartreuse and magenta.   This has gotta be it.
dylan		It's gonna blow anyway, once the clock gets to zero.
knox		Who told you that, my idiotic henchman? Do you think I tell him ANYTHING that's confidential?
dylan		Yeah, I fall for assholes, and you ARE one.
knox		Good one.  Well, I must be going. If you like your body parts attached to your torso, I suggest you do the same.
alex		Give it up, Knox. You're surrounded.
natalie		Give us the detonator.
knox		NO!
knox		Charlie?
angels		Charlie?
charlie		Your father was a double agent, Eric. Yes, I revealed him, but he was killed by his own people before we could throw him in jail.  He was my friend.
knox		It's still your fault, you arrogant prick! You still killed my father!
charlie		Maybe. Maybe I did. But why should YOU kill all these people? If you hate me so much, just shoot ME. Just shoot me, Eric.
knox		Okay.  You're right.  I'll just kill you.
dylan		Charlie, no.   NO!
natalie		Bosley!   Are you okay?
bosley		Think so.
dylan		Hey, wait a second. If Bosley's here... then where's Charlie?
charlie's voice		Great work, angels. You'll be happy to know you received another presidential commendation.
the angels		Thank you Charlie. 
charlie's voice		Alex, Natalie -- I know you've been putting in some long hours on this case, so I thought you might enjoy a chance to catch up with some old friends.
dylan		Any chance you'll be joining us, Charlie?
charlie		 I'd love to, Angels. But I have some precious treasures to watch over.
dylan		To Charlie.
****Dialogues from script :Chasing_Amy.txt****

banky		Felt Like this fucking day would never come.  Issue two - on the shelf.
holden		Yippee.
banky		Don't start, alright!  This is a cool moment, and I'd appreciate you not trying to ruin it.  How often does a guy get the opportunity to purchase something with his name on it!  YOUR MOTHER'S A TRACER!!
holden		Can I explain the audience principle to you!  If you insult and accost them, then we have no audience. BANKY He started it!  Fucking cock-knocker! He's lucky I didn't put my pen through his thorax! HOLDEN Need I remind you...  You play darts! HOLDEN Not professionally.  You know - only in bars.
alyssa		So your new book seems to be selling like mad.
holden		It goes back to something my grandmother told me when I was a kid. "Holden," she said "The big bucks are in dick and fart jokes."  She was a church-goer.
alyssa		Uh-oh - the cry from the heart of a real artist trapped in commercial hell - pitying his good fortune.  I'm sure you can dry your eyes on all those fat checks you rake in.
holden		I'm sorry - did I detect a note of bitter envy in there!
alyssa		Nope.  I'm happy my stuff gets read at all.  There's very little market for hearts and flowers in this spandex- clad, big pecs, big tits, big guns field.  If I sell two issues, I feel like John Grisham.
holden		 It's all about marketing.  Over- or underweight guys who don't get laid - they're our bread and butter.  People like those two outside should be yours.
holden		And sadly, there are more of our core audience out there than yours.  Look at that, though - kind of gives you a little charge, to see two people in love.  And all over Banky's car, no less.  That car's seeing more action right now than it's seen in years.
alyssa		Bubbly guy like that, it's hard to figure out why.
holden		 You've gotta respect that kind of display of affection.  It's crazy, rude, self-absorbed - but it's love.
alyssa		That's not love.
holden		Says you.
alyssa		That out there!  That's fleeting.
holden		Fleeting.
alyssa		Uh-huh.  You wanna hear about love! Oh, I'll tell you about love.
holden		A story?
alyssa		The story.  The original love story.
holden		'Doctor Zhivago'.
alyssa		Nope.  My mother's uncle.  He was a millionaire.
holden		Get out.
alyssa		I kid you not.
holden		Explain.
alyssa		All through high school, he dated this one girl.  They  were inseparable. And when they graduated, she went off to Carnegie Mellon...
holden		In Pittsburgh.
alyssa		I'm impressed.  So he stays in the home town, and they begin their long- distance relationship.  The plan is, on the  third Sunday of every month, he'll train out, spend a week then train back They do this for four years.
holden		That is love.
alyssa		Not nearly finished.  Two months before she's going to graduate, he's got this job digging graves, and he comes across...
holden		A stiff.
alyssa		A steamer trunk containing silver ingots.
holden		Get out of here.
alyssa		Many, many silver ingots.  Now, my mother's uncle being quite the ingenious chap - he buries the trunk again and heads up to the main office, where he proceeds to purchase a cemetery plot.  Guess which one?
holden		Clever.
alyssa		So now he owns the plot and all of its contents.  Two  days later, my mother's uncle is worth three million.
holden		At which time he marries the high school sweetheart and lives happily ever after.
alyssa		Not even close.  Inside the steamer trunk, stenciled into the wood, or something like that, is a curse.
holden		Someone wrote 'Fuck' inside his new steamer trunk.
alyssa		Not that kind of curse.  A cryptic curse "Great fortune means great loss" it said.
holden		What kind of asshole writes that inside a steamer trunk!
alyssa		The same kind of asshole that buries silver ingots.  The day my mother's uncle is heading out to see the girl, he stops at his accountant's to grab some cash, and winds up missing his train.  So he has to take the next one - which he does - and he gets there an hour later than his usual time of arrival, whereupon he sees lights.
holden		A hero's welcome for the new millionaire.
alyssa		It seems that while she was standing on the platform waiting that extra hour for my mother's uncle to show up, the girl was dragged into the bushes by an unknown assailant, raped and gutted.
alyssa		The assailant was never apprehended.
holden		 That's a love story!!
alyssa		Yes, and here's why: my mother's uncle rode that train every day for the rest of his life.  One day up, the next day back.  Did that 'till the day he died. He donated the fortune he'd acquired to the train station in Pittsburgh, to have a well-lit terminal built. The train line let him ride for free after that.
holden		I should hope so.  Jesus, that's the saddest tale I've ever heard.
alyssa		That's my love story.
holden		Those two aren't on the hood of Banky's car anymore.
alyssa		I told you It wasn't love.  Tell Hooper I'll call him later.  And tell your friend to calm down.
banky		You're insane.  Archie is not fucking Mister Weatherbee!
hooper		Deny, deny, deny.  Where's Alyssa?
holden		Huh!  Oh.  She left.  She said she'd call you later.
banky		 He's just offering to help Archie with his homework!
hooper		Read between the lines.
banky		 Holden!
holden		 What!
banky		Let's go.
hooper		 D'jou see that dent in the hood of your car!
banky		 What the...!  Son of a bitch!
hooper		Let me guess: you like her!
holden		Who?
hooper		Miss Alyssa Jones.
holden		She's alright.
hooper		As long as that's all.  Maybe you can convince that partner of your's to drop me off downtown before you scurry out the tunnel!
holden		 Mister Weatherbee wasn't really trying to fuck Archie, was he!
hooper		Hell no.  Weatherbee was Reggie's bitch.
banky		 This is one of the best street lights you've ever drawn.
holden		It's the one across from the post office.
banky		Looks just like it.
holden		Thanks.  What do you wanna do tonight!
banky		Get a pizza.  Watch 'Degrassi Junior High'.
holden		 You got a weird thing for Canadian melodrama.
banky		I've got a weird thing for girls who say 'aboot'.
holden		Bank-Hold-Up.
hooper		Hooper here.  Listen, I know how you burb-fiends hate the city, but there's a club shindig going down that I think you'd get into.
holden		Where is it?
hooper		Place called Her-sterectomy - I'm tempting as bar-keep.
holden		I don't know, Hoop.  We're prepping the next issue, and we've got our big M-TV meeting in the morning.
hooper		I told her you wouldn't be interested.
holden		Told who?
hooper		Alyssa.
holden		Alyssa from last night Alyssa?
hooper		How do you begin and end a question with the same word like that?  You got skill.  Yes, that one.  She asked me to invite you.  Now here's the part where you say...
holden		I'll be there.
hooper		Thought so.  Ten o'clock.  Later. 
banky		Who was that?
holden		Hooper.  He invited me to a club.
banky		When's that faggot going to learn - you like chicks.
holden		 Not that kind of a club.
banky		So when we leaving?
holden		'We'?  You can't go.  He's setting me up with Alyssa.
banky		And?
holden		And I don't want you messing it up.
banky		Like I care about your shit.  Maybe I'll hook up myself.
holden		 I just told you - it's not that kind of club.
banky		How does one man get to be so funny!
holden		 How are you going to get home if I hook up!
banky		Like that'll happen.
holden		Let me explain something to you, my witless chum the other night in that bar, we two - Alyssa and I shared a moment, alright!
banky		Oh, you had a moment!
holden		 We shared a moment.  And in that moment, one thing was made abundantly clear: this girl loves me, my friend. Loves-me.
guy		This is so watered down.  It's terrible.  Why is it you can never get a decent drink in these places!
guy		What are you doing!
hooper		Trying to find you a tissue.
banky		Alright - bring on the free hootch.
hooper		As long as you don't bitch about how little alcohol is in the drink.  You owe me five sixty.
guy		 And I suppose you're going to make your friend here pay for his drink right!
banky		Hey, I befriended a guy in a position of authority so I could abuse that authority and get free shit.  You want to do the same?  There's a lonely Hindu works at the'7-ll' across the street.  Get in tight with him.
guy		I work at that '7-11'! 
banky		 Wanna be friends!
hooper		Where's your better half!
banky		Taking a piss.  Guy's got a bladder like an infant.
hooper		That's funny - he says you're hung like an infant.
banky		Must his mother tell him everything!
banky		What'd you do - fall in love?
holden		Where is she?
hooper		Over there...
oc hooper		Been dancin' for an hour.  Hasn't stopped yet.
banky		She ain't no Denny Terrio, I'll say that.
hooper		Wait. wait, wait - there's something you should know.
holden		She's got a boyfriend.
hooper		Well.. no.
holden		Then what's to know?
banky		There're a lot of chicks in this place.
hooper		'Chicks'.  You're such a man.
banky		 He didn't really say that about my dick, did he!
holden		 Hey, hey, hey - you fucked up my cabbage-patch!
alyssa		Well, well, well - Bluntman himself. Or should I call you Chronic!
holden		Call me flattered.  I heard you sent me the invite to this little soiree'.
alyssa		From a former home-town girl, to Mister Home-Town himself.
holden		You're saying you're from the 'burbs!
alyssa		Middletown, N.J.
holden		Get out of here!  I'm from Highlands!
alyssa		I know.  Hooper told me.
holden		How is it that we never ran into one another?
alyssa		You graduate from Hudson?
holden		Yeah.  Eighty eight.
alyssa		I went to North.  Also eighty eight.
holden		What a small fucking world.  So you know the tri-town area!
alyssa		Quiz me.
holden		Miller Hill?
alyssa		I wrote my name on the wall.
holden		Sandy Hook?
alyssa		Lost my virginity there.
holden		This is so cool.  The mall!
alyssa		Eden Prairie of Menlo Park!
holden		Wait - here's the big test: Quick Stop!
alyssa		My best friend fucked a dead guy in the back room.
holden		You know that girl!!
alyssa		I did.  Before she was committed.
holden		You know what this is!  This is fate.
alyssa		 No, this is the 'Rog'.
holden		I was talking about us meeting - what are the chances!
alyssa		Pretty slim.  I haven't been back to the 'burbs since my friend's funeral.
holden		The Quick Stop girl died!
alyssa		Another friend - Julie Dwyer.  She died in the..
holden		Y.M.C.A pool!  Damn!  You knew her too!
alyssa		So well.
holden		One friend in an asylum, the other friend in the grave.  You're a dangerous person to know.
alyssa		But I can tap.  That was the Buffalo Two-Step.
holden		Very solid.
alyssa		That's what six years of tap lessons yields.
holden		Two towns away from each other for years and we had to meet in New York.
alyssa		Coulda been worse - we could have not met at all.
oc singer		Thank you.  Thanks.
singer		A long time ago, we used to have this bass player who took off one day to draw funny books or something.  Maybe you've seen her stuff - it's called 'Idiosyncratic Routine''
singer		But what a lot of people don't know is that she used to harbor these delusions that she could sing.  And she used to subject us to these throaty renditions of Debbie Gibson tunes and shit, insisting that we let her front on a few numbers.  Well, we didn't and she quit.. and then she got famous, the bitch.  What do you say, Alyssa?
singer		She's shy.  GET UP HERE AND SING, BITCH!!
banky		This is so queer. 
hooper		 You don't know the half of it.
alyssa		She is such a twat.
alyssa		Alright.  I should dedicate this, right?  This is for that special someone our there.
banky		Now that, my friend, is a..  ...shared moment
banky		What?!
holden		 That's rude.
banky		Man, when are we ever going to get a chance to see this kind of shit live without paying for it?
alyssa		Uh-oh - better knock it off: we're getting a man excited.
holden		Sorry.  It's just... new to him.
banky		Oh, and you're an old hand at this.
alyssa		No, I should apologize.  I don't usually get all mushy in public.  But it's been awhile since I've seen Kim here.
kim		 Tell me you didn't set that gross display up with the band just so you could nail me.
alyssa		Like I'd have to go through that much effort
kim		You know what!  I want to dance.
alyssa		Go ahead.  I'll watch from here.
kim		 No.  I want to dance with you.
alyssa		Don't be such a rag.  I have to sit here and work up the desire to fuck you later.
kim		Please.
alyssa		Yes?
banky		You said 'fuck'.  To that girl.  You said you'd 'fuck' her.
alyssa		And?
banky		How can a girl 'fuck' another girl! Were you talking about strap-ons or something?
holden		 Would you shut up!!
banky		What!!?  It's a valid question.  You know the dyke stuff in the Penthouse Letters section is written by guys - this is our chance to get the inside scoop.
holden		 I don't know how many times I can apologize for him.
alyssa		It's okay.  Secretly, all I really want is to be the center of attention.  I've never used a snap-on.
banky		Then what's with saying 'fuck? Shouldn't you say 'eat her out' or at least modify the term 'fuck' with something like 'fist'?
alyssa		Let me ask you a question - can men 'fuck' each other!
banky		Ask Hooper.
alyssa		In your estimation.
banky		Sure.
alyssa		So for you, to 'fuck' means to penetrate.  You're used to the more traditional definition - you inside some girl you've duped, jack-hammering away, not noticing that bored look in her eyes.
banky		Hey - I always notice the bored look in their eyes.
alyssa		 'Fucking' is nor limited to penetration, Banky. For me it describes any sex when it's not totally about love.  I don't love Kim, but I'll fuck her.  I'm sure you don't love every girl you sleep with.
banky		Some of them I downright loathe.
alyssa		But I'll bet it's different with the ones you love.  I'll bet you go the full nine when it's not just a quick fix - like you go down on them longer or something.
holden		Here we go.
banky		I don't do that.
alyssa		What?!?!
banky		I stopped dropping.  It got to be too frustrating.
holden		As stupid as you usually come off during this diatribe of your's, you're going to come off ten times as stupid on this occasion.
banky		What?!  I lost my tolerance for the bullshit baggage that comes with eating girls out.  What's the big deal?!
alyssa		If you say the smell, so help me, I'll slug you.
banky		Not the smell - the smell is good. I'm talking about not being able to do it property.  And my mother brought me up to believe that if I can't do something right I shouldn't do it at all.  Of course, my father told me she gave lousy head, but that's beside the point.
alyssa		At least you blame yourself for your sexual inadequacies.
banky		No, I blame them.  Chicks never help you out.  They never tell you what to do.  And most of them are self- conscious about that smell factor, and so most of the time they just lay there, frozen like a deer in the headlights, right?  Not for nothing, but when a chick goes down on me.  I let her know where to go, and what the status is.  You gotta handle it like CNN and the Weather Channel - constant updates.
holden		You're such an idiot.
alyssa		No, he's got a point.  That's how I was in high school - I was nervous, and inhibited about being eaten out. But by the time I got to college, that all changed.  I loosened up.  Not only did I learn to communicate - I learned to be bossy. I was like one of those guys at the airport with those big flash lights - waving them this way, directing them that way, telling them when to stop.
banky		And that's all I'm saying, it'd be different if chicks helped out - pointed a guy in the right direction. Then there'd be no bullshit, no wasted time, and no chance for permanent injuries.
alyssa		Permanent injuries?
banky		Sure.  You wanna see something permanent!  I got this from Nina Rollins, sophomore year.  I'm going down on her, and out of nowhere, her cat jumps on her stomach.  She does this big ol' pelvic thrust - cracks my tooth in half, sends it down my throat.  I had to get a crown for the stub.
alyssa		 That's permanent.
banky		You see this!  ...and he pulls me way back, hard.
alyssa		 Senior year.  Spring Formal.  I'm eating our Missy Kurt in her brother's car.  She's laying across the back seat, and I'm half-hanging out of the car, my knees on the ground.  She's flailing around, and she knocks the parking brake off.  The car starts rolling down the hill, and my right knee is cut up all to shit like a kiddy's scissor class cut it up for paper dolls.
holden		 Holy shit, is that the time.  We've gotta beat traffic.
banky		What traffic - it's one thirty in the morning!
holden		 Thanks for inviting us out.  It was... educational.
banky		 Since you like chicks, right.. do you just look at yourself in the mirror all the time?
banky		 You're still dwelling on the dyke, aren't you?
holden		Lower your voice.
banky		What'd I tell you - she just needs the right guy.  All every woman really wants - be it mother, senator, nun - is some serious deep-dicking.
banky		 Don't give me that look - I heard Adam Curry say worse.
banky		That's why I can't buy lesbians. Everyone needs dick.  See, I can buy fags.  Bunch of guys that need dick - just plain need it?  That I get. Dykes?  Bullshit posturing.  But - live and let live, I guess.
holden		I'm sure the gay community appreciates your support.
sloss		Please tell me you haven't blown this deal already.
banky		Sloss like a mother fucker. 
sloss		Hey, every mother but your's - a shyster's gotta have his standards. Shall we?
exec 1		We just want to start off by saying that it's a pleasure to finally meet you.  While it's been - shall we say - an experience dealing with Sloss here, one of the main reasons we started this whole thing was to meet the guys that do 'Bluntman and Chronic'.
exec 2		 'Snootchie Bootchies'.
exec 1		Which brings us to our proposal: we are extremely interested in doing twelve, half-hour 'Bluntman and Chronic' cartoons.  The age of Beavis is coming to a close, and we're looking for something... something...
banky		Even more retarded and juvenile to sate the voracious, intellectually- challenged miscreants that make up your key demographic.
exec 1		 So what do you say! Are we in business!
sloss		Jim, Sean - could we have a few minutes!
exec 2		 Uh... absolutely.  We'll just..
exec 1		Uh...wait outside
sloss		So?  Did I do good?
banky		You did better - you sold us out!
sloss		Do you know how much you'll make on merchandising alone!
banky		 Money and Power, and Money and Power...
sloss		 Money dnd Power, and Money and...
holden		 I don't think it's a good idea.
banky		What's not a good idea!  Please don't say the cartoon, please don't say the cartoon...
holden		The cartoon.
sloss		What?!?  Are you out of your fucking mind!
banky		 You are out of your fucking mind, aren't you!
holden		Is this how you want to be remembered! As the guy who created Bluntman and Chronic!
banky		No, I'd like to be remembered as the filthy rich guy who created Bluntman and Chronic.
holden		But it'll be all glossy and main- stream.  We'll lose any artistic credibility we ever had.
sloss		 Is it me!  I don't see the problem.
banky		 He just has to get over this crush of his.
sloss		Oh God - not on Carrie Fisher again!  Holden - she's not really a Princess.
banky		 Not on her; on Alyssa Jones - the chick that does that comic book 'Idiosyncratic Routine'.  You ever seen it?
sloss		Please.  Like I even read your comic, let alone anyone else's,  I'm not limited to offering you legal counsel only, my friend.  I'm also learned in the ways of the heart, and can offer you this advice - nail her, get it out of your system, and move on.  Like we say at Sloss Law - good fences make good neighbors.
banky		She'd never let him in her yard.  The chick's gay.
sloss		 Wait a sec - does she have representation!
banky		Always working, you.  Look at this - Mrs. M-TV Exec has a string of pearls hanging our of her ass,
sloss		Would you leave his stuff alone!  You can break her resolve, killer. All it takes is one good man.  But if it takes two good men, don't hesitate to call me.  That being said, in regards to the more pressing issue, I suggest you leave art to the museums and grab on with both hands to the big, fat check.
holden		I'll give it some thought
banky		 You'll 'give it some thought'.  You're so retarded
holden		I'm retarded!  This from the guy who only forty five minutes ago paid fifty bucks for what's supposed to be a boot- leg of 'March of the Wooden Soldiers' with a deleted scene of Stan Laurel wearing a French Tickler.
sloss		How'd you fall for that!
banky		The guy who sold it to me had an honest face.
alyssa		Somebody told me that they make comic books here, and I've got an idea for this story about a guy who comes to a club and high-tails it when he finds out this girl is pay.  Any interest in a story like that!
alyssa		M-TV?
holden		Twelve episodes.
alyssa		That's great, isn't it?
holden		Banky seems to think so.
alyssa		But you don't.
holden		I don't know if that's the perception I want people to have of our stuff.  I know this sounds pretentious as hell, but I like to think of us as artists. And I'd like to get back to doing something more personal - like our first book.
alyssa		Well when are you going to do that?
holden		 As soon as we have something personal to say.
alyssa		Do you know how pretty you are?
holden		What?
alyssa		You're a pretty man.
holden		Uh... thanks.
alyssa		Oh.  I get it.  I'm into girls, so I have to find all men repulsive or something.
holden		I didn't say anything.
alyssa		Aren't there some men that you find attractive?  Granted, not enough to sleep with, but still - just handsome or something!
holden		Sure.  Harrison Ford.  And our mail- man.
alyssa		Well it's the same thing.  I look at you and just find you really handsome. And you know, it has very little to do with your look, per-se.  Your look is fine, don't get me wrong.  But it's more your outlook.  The things you say, the way you see things.  It's... I don't know... attractive,
alyssa		I weirded you our the other night
holden		Huh!  No, not really.
alyssa		Come on.
holden		 It's just that we've.., I mean, I've never seen that kind of thing up close and personal.  It just took awhile to process, longer than usual.
alyssa		Do you want to talk about it!
holden		Um.  If you want to.
alyssa		I like you.  I haven't liked a man in a long time.  And I'm not a man-hater or something.  It's just been some time since I've been exposed to a man that didn't immediately live-into a stereotype of some sort.  And I want you to feel comfortable with me, because I want us to be friends.  So if there are things you'd like to know, it's okay to ask me.
holden		 Why girls?
alyssa		 Why men?
holden		Because that's the standard
alyssa		If that's the only reason you're attracted to women - because it's the standard..
holden		It's more than that.
alyssa		So you've never been curious about men?
holden		Curious about men?  Well... I always wondered why my father watched 'Hee- Haw'.
alyssa		You know what I mean.
holden		No.
alyssa		Why not!
holden		No interest.
alyssa		Because...?
holden		Girls feel right.
alyssa		And that's how I feel.  I've never really been attracted to men.  I'm more comfortable with the idea of girls.
holden		Wait, wait, wait - you're still a virgin?
alyssa		No.
holden		But you've only been with girls.
alyssa		You're saying a person's a virgin until they've had intercourse with a member of the opposite sex?
holden		Isn't that the standard definition?
alyssa		Again with the standards.  I think virginity is lost when you make love for the first time.
holden		With a member of the opposite sex.
alyssa		Why?  Why only then?
holden		Because that's the standard.
alyssa		So if a virgin is raped, then she's still a virgin?
holden		Of course not.
alyssa		But rape is not the standard.  So she's had sex, but not the standard idea of sex.  Hence, according to your definition, she'd still be a virgin.
holden		Okay, I'll revise.  Virginity is lost when the hymen is broken.
alyssa		Then I lost my virginity at ten, because I fell on a fence post when I was ten, and it broke my hymen.  Now I have to tell people that I lost it to a wooden post I'd known my whole young life?
holden		Second revision - virginity is lost through penetration.
alyssa		Physical penetration or emotional?
holden		Emotional?
alyssa		Well, I fell in love hard with Caitlin Bree when we were in high school.
holden		Physical penetration.
alyssa		We had sex.
holden		Yeah, but not real sex.
alyssa		I move to have that remark stricken from the record.  On account of it makes you come off as completely naive and infantile.
holden		Well where's the penetration in lesbian sex.
holden		A finger?  Come on.  I've had my finger in my ass but I wouldn't say I've had anal sex.
alyssa		Did I hold up a finger? 
holden		 How...?!?
alyssa		Our bodies are built to pass a child, for Christ's sake.
holden		But doesn't it hurt?!
alyssa		Sure.  But in a good way.  And it's only a once-in-awhile thing - reserved for really special occasions.
holden		What about not-so-special occasions?
alyssa		Tongue only.
holden		But how can that be enough?  I mean, let's be real - how big can a tongue even get?
alyssa		Let's go.
alyssa		Come on.
holden		Just...uh... just give me a moment.
holden		Look at you.  It's a two day trip.
banky		I got the Sega in one bag, my clothes in the other, and two months worth of unread comics in this one.
holden		We're going to a convention, for the love of God.  We'll be busy from ten 'till eight each day. When are you possibly going to have time for any of that shit?  In fact, fuck it - you're leaving some of this shit here in a locker.  Come on - give me the two that aren't clothes.
banky		Hold on. 
holden		What are you doing?
banky		I just have to get something. 
holden		Who are you, Larry fucking Flynt? What are you going to do with all of those?
banky		Read the articles.  What do you think I'm going to do with them?  They're stroke books.
holden		You've got like thirty books there! We're only there for two days!
banky		 Variety's the spice of life.  I like a wide selection.  Sometimes I'm in the mood for nasty close-ups, sometimes I like them arty and air-brushed.  Some times it's a spread brown-eye kind of night, sometimes it's girl-on-girl time.  Sometimes a steamy letter will do it, sometimes - not often, but sometimes - I like the idea of a chick with a horse.
holden		Go check us in.  I've gotta call Alyssa.
banky		His master's voice.
holden		Put that stuff away.
kid		What are those?
banky		 Do you Like horsies?
alyssa		I hope for the sake of the women you've dated that you're only this quick in returning calls.
holden		What's up?  I'm about to get on a plane.
alyssa		Ohhh.  Why!
holden		Last minute invite to the Dragon Con'.
alyssa		Shit.
holden		What?
alyssa		My sister's at my parents'.  I was gonna go see her.
holden		The one that wrote the book?
alyssa		Yeah.  But I was staying all weekend, and I wanted to hang our with you. This sucks.
holden		You didn't get invited to the Con'?
alyssa		I don't do southern con's - all the chicks have that annoying drawl.  You know how hard it is nor to laugh when someone moans "Fuhhk me"?
holden		Well this sucks.  You know - both of us don't have to go.
alyssa		Really?
holden		Yeah.  Banky can go by himself.  It's not like we're on a panel.  It was just a signing appearance.
alyssa		If you come pick me up, I'll be your best friend.
holden		 Where's your apartment?
alyssa		I'm not there.  I'm at a friend's - in the Village.  Corner of Houston and Mercer.  Number eighty six, apartment 6-D.
holden		I'll be there in half an hour.
alyssa		You're so easy.
banky		...And then Black Beauty couldn't take it any longer, and he finally did some of his own mounting.
kid		 Wow.
holden		What are you doing?
banky		 I think I want kids of my own one day. They're fun.
holden		Listen to me - I'm not going.  You're going to have to do this one by yourself.
banky		What?  Why?
holden		Alyssa's coming down for the weekend, so I want to hang out with her.  You don't need me for this.  Meantime,  I'll take this stuff home. You can keep the filth.  I'll pick you up at nine Sunday night, alright? Don't forget to plug the Annual and don't mention the t.v. show, okay? Call me if you get bored.
flight attendant		Checking in, sir!
banky		 Yeah.  But this is carry-on.
banky		 Hey!  You're name's Frank!
woman		Let me guess - 'the right man'?
holden		Excuse me?
woman		You've got it in your head that Alyssa's not really into chicks - that she just hasn't met the right man. And you believe you're it.  You're going to treat her right, fuck her like a stud, and 'straight-jacket' her back from the land of the lost.  And the sad truth is that you'll accomplish none of that and wind up as either an even more bitter misogynist or a reverse fag-hag.
alyssa		Don't mind her.  That's just her way a saying hello.
woman		Actually, it's just my way of saying "Give it up."
alyssa		 You're such an asshole.
woman		When you file the date-rape charges, don't say I didn't warn you.
holden		 I'm Holden, by the way.
woman		I'm the voice of reason that Miss Bitch is having such a hard time listening to.
holden		Look, we're just friends.
woman		That's what every guy says before he tries purring your hand on his dick.
holden		And how do you know men so well?
woman		Because I lapdance for a living, dick- head.
alyssa		Ohhh - you look so cute!
holden		Who was that?
alyssa		Just an occasional friend.
holden		Why would you want to hang our with someone bitter as that?
alyssa		 Her's is even bigger than that.
alyssa		You were raised Catholic, right?
holden		Yeah.  You?
alyssa		Baptist.
holden		Really?  Did you have a strict upbringing?
alyssa		Please There was no time to be bad - we were too busy saying 'Jesus'.
holden		You think your upbringing had something to do with your lifestyle choice?
alyssa		Somewhere along the line.  It's a gradual transition to make - from doing what the majority does to taking a leap of faith and doing what feels more natural.  Everything helps - from the way you were handled as a kid, to the way the boys acted in third grade, to the shoes you wore at your freshman prom.
holden		Shoes?
alyssa		Well they were really tight.
holden		Come in.
alyssa		I read somewhere that guys who play hockey are merely making up for penile deficiencies by carrying big sticks.
banky		I thought you lived in the city?  This is like the umpteenth time I've seen you here.  Isn't that grounds enough for the little pink mafia to throw you out of their club?
holden		 I'll be ready in a second. I just have to school this mouthy second-stringer.
banky		Bitch, you're schooling no one.
holden		 What?  Do something!
banky		 You fucking cock-teaser.  I'll knock your fucking teeth out and pass all over your ass.
holden		Look at how slow you are.  Christ, you move like a geriatric.
banky		 Fuck!  You Fucking cock-sucker, man! These faggots won't do what I tell them to!
holden		Oh. It's the controller, right?  It's always the controller.
banky		No, it's these... fucking queers on blades that can't accept a fucking pass to save their lives!  What period is this?
holden		Final sixty of the third.
banky		Fuck!  Look at your fucking guys, they... FUCK!!!  FUCKING COCK SUCKER, MAN!  I SWEAR TO GOD!
holden		Imagine if I'd only beaten him by one instead of thirty.
alyssa		Explain this again.
holden		How could you have grown up down the shore and never played skee-ball? What did you do with your youth?
alyssa		Stayed out late, smoked pot, screwed around.
holden		Not your grade school years; your high school years.
alyssa		 This looks complicated.
holden		 The premise is very basic - you roll the ball up the ramp at varying speeds, in an effort to pop it into the score circles.  The higher the score, the more prize tickets you get.
alyssa		What do you do with the prize tickets?
holden		Trade them in for prizes that aren't worth nearly as much as you paid to play the game.
alyssa		Then what's the point?
holden		It's fun.
alyssa		And you question my lifestyle.
holden		Observe.
holden		See?  It's just that simple.
alyssa		Why not just walk up there and put it in the fifty every time?
holden		Where's the skill in that?
alyssa		Oh, this is a skill?  I'm sorry, I had no idea.
holden		Just toss one.
holden		 I'm sorry, man.  She's new at this.
holden		 Underhand.  Throw it underhand.
alyssa		This is where you take straight chicks on dates?
holden		It's like Spanish Fly.  This'll probably be the first time I don't score afterwards.
alyssa		I don't know.  I'm starting to get a tingle in my bottom.  Ten.
alyssa		Got laid
alyssa		Some more of that skill you were telling me about?
holden		Maybe we should just leave before somebody gets hurt.
alyssa		No way.  I want a cheap prize.  So your friend's quite the homophobe.
holden		He just feels left out, I think.
alyssa		I'm not talking about his infantile hang-up with me.  I'm talking about when you two were playing that game. Everytime he swore - when his players messed up, he called them cocksuckers, he referred to the players as queers, he called you a cock-teaser...
holden		I thought he was talking to you.
alyssa		I know you think it means nothing, and it may in fact be unintentional, but it's ugly all the same.
holden		He was just pissed he was losing.
alyssa		So he slams the gay community?
holden		C'mon.  Don't get all p.c. on me.
alyssa		I'm not.  But what is that saying?
holden		It says he gets too easily frustrated.
alyssa		It's passive/agressive gay-bashing.
holden		How do you figure?
alyssa		How casually did it roll off his tongue?  And that's how he expresses his anger?  By calling people faggots?
holden		I think you're reading too much into it.
alyssa		I think you're just so used to it that it rolls off your back.  I've heard the two of you play your little rank out game where one insists the other is gay.  "You're a faggot.  No, you're a faggot."  It's cute and all to watch you go at it like grade-schooler, but it's also offensive - labeling and ducking the label of being gay as if it were the scarlet fucking letter.
holden		You're blowing this way out of proportion.  We live in a more tolerant age now.  You refer to yourself as a dyke.  Hooper calls himself a faggot all the time...
alyssa		Yeah, but that's what's known as empowerment/disempowerment.  I call myself a dyke so it's not too devastating when some throwback screams it at me as I'm leaving a bar at night. Same for Hooper - by calling himself a faggot, he steals the thunder away from the mouthy jerks of this world who'd like to beat him to it.  But the difference between us having it and your friend saying it is miles wide. We say it to mask the pain - you say it for lack of a better expression at any given moment.  No Holden, we do not live in a more tolerant age.  And if you think that's the case, then you've been in the suburbs way too long to be resuscitated.
alyssa		But you know what?  Come on - I want my cheap prize.
holden		 How bad do you suck!
banky		How was your pseudo-date?
holden		Leave it alone.
banky		That chick bugs me.
holden		 Aww.  Everyone bugs you.
banky		Get off.  Fucking faggot!  Did you see that?! Your dyke courting ass just got me scored on!
holden		 And don't call her a dyke, alright? She's a lesbian.
banky		What the fuck is going on here?
holden		 I'm starting a new page.
banky		 Not with this shit!  With you.  What the fuck is going on with you and that girl?
holden		We're friends.
banky		She's programming you.
holden		I beg your pardon?  Programming?
banky		Yeah.  And apparently, you don't even realize it.  What does it matter if I refer to her as a dyke, or if I call the Whalers a bunch of faggots in the privacy of my own office, far from the sensitive ears of the rest of the world?
holden		It's passive/aggressive gay-bashing; and I know you're not really prejudiced at heart.  You should just find some other way to express your anger, is all I'm saying.
holden		What the fuck are you doing!
banky		Bear with me here.  I just want to put you through this little exercise.  Okay, now see this?  This is a four way road, okay?
banky		Which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first?
holden		What is this supposed to prove?
banky		I'm serious.  This is a serious exercise.  It's like an S.A.T. question.  Which one's going to get to the hundred dollar bill first - the male-friendly lesbian, the man-hating dyke, Santa Claus, or the Easter Bunny?
holden		 The man-hating dyke.
banky		Good.  Why?
holden		I don't know.
banky		 BECAUSE THESE OTHER THREE ARE FIGMENTS OF YOUR FUCKING IMAGINATION!
holden		I don't need this.  I'm going home.
banky		She's fucking with your mind, man! She knows you've got this schoolboy crush and she's using it to sway your way of thinking!
holden		And why would she need to do that? What is she Mata fucking Hari?!  What does she gain?
banky		Maybe she thinks you'll get her comic picked up by Contender.  Or maybe she thinks you'll change the content of our book to something more political and message oriented.  Or, gee - I don't know - maybe because that's just what dykes like to do: fuck around with straight guys' heads, just so she can go back to her little rug-muncher club and have a good laugh with all her man-hating harpy cronies about how fucking stupid and easily duped men are!
holden		You're so out of line right now..,
banky		You don't even know this girl!  Big deal, she's from Middletown and she went to North!  All the girls at North were bitches and sluts anyway!  And this one's got them beat by a mile because she's a bitch/slut/dyke!
holden		Watch your fucking mouth, is all I'm going to tell you..
banky		Oh why?  Do you get my back when she bashes me?  Because I know she does. And do you know why she does?  Because I won't play her fucking game!
holden		Sometimes your paranoia and suspicious bullshit is amusing.  Sometimes it's just fucking annoying as piss!
banky		What is it about this girl?  You know you have no shot at getting her into bed!  Why do you bother wasting time with her?  Because you're Holden fucking McNeil - most persistent traveller on the road that's not the path of least resistance! Everything's gotta be a fucking challenge for you, and this little relationship with that bitch is a prime example of your fucking condition.  Well I don't need a fucking magic eight ball to look into your future; you want a forecast? Here - will Holden ever fuck Alyssa.  What a shock - "Not fucking likely"! This relationship of  your's is affecting you, our work and our friendship, and the time's going to come when I throw down the gauntlet and say it's me or her!  And then what're you going to say?!
holden		 I think you should let this one go.
banky		No, what would you say?  Would you trash twenty years of friendship because you've got some idiotic notion that this chick would even let you sniff her panties, let alone fuck her?!
holden		Let it go...
banky		What the fuck.. WHAT THE FUCK MAKES THIS BITCH ALL THAT IMPORTANT?!?! Holden looks at Banky for a long beat.
holden		I'm in love with her, man.
banky		Fuck.
holden		I wish you were the one being pursued by M-TV.
alyssa		Oh really?
holden		Sure.  Then you could sell our and maybe pick up the check once in awhile.
alyssa		 We're leaving!
holden		Well it's not like this is a bed and breakfast,
alyssa		I've got a little business to conduct.
alyssa		Are you an authorized deal-maker in this establishment?  Do you have the power to negotiate.
cashier		You wanna haggle over the price of your French Dip?
alyssa		I want to haggle over the price of fine art.
cashier		What do you mean?
alyssa		 There.  By the kitchen.  That painting.
cashier		What about it?
alyssa		The price tag says seventy five.
cashier		So!
holden		 Tell me you're kidding!
alyssa		I'll give you fifty.
cashier		 All my years in the diner business, I've waited for this day - the day when someone wanted to buy one of the pictures.
alyssa		 Alyssa Jones.  Pleased to meet you.
cashier		You say you want to haggle, but you don't know rule one about haggling, which you just broke: you never give your name.  The name is power, and to give the opponent that piece of you is to give away victory.
alyssa		I'm only trying to conduct a transaction.  We're not opponents.
cashier		 Oh, but we are - if you think I'm letting this beautiful piece go for fifty.
alyssa		Ah-ha!  Now we're haggling.
holden		I've always wondered what kind of people buy those things.  I can't believe you talked him down to twenty five!
alyssa		It was looking shakey when he told me the artist was a blind cripple with a hump-back, but I held my ground. There's no room for sympathy in the buyer's market.
holden		Where are you going to hang it?
alyssa		I'm not.  You are.
holden		You want me to hang it for you?  You better hope it doesn't get out to the girl-nation that you needed a man to help you hang a picture.
alyssa		You're going to hang it in your house. I bought it for you.
holden		 Yeah, right.
alyssa		 I'm serious.
holden		Why?
alyssa		Because it's captured the moment. It'll be a constant reminder - not just of tonight, but of our introduction, the building of our friendship, everything.  Make no mistake about it my Friend - it's a gift to you, from me, so you'll always remember us.
alyssa		Why are we stopping?
holden		Because I can't take it.
alyssa		Can't take what?
holden		I love you.
alyssa		 You love me.
holden		I love you.  And not in a friendly way, although I think we're great friends.  And not in a misplaced affection, puppy-dog way, although I'm sure that's what you'll call it.  And it's not because you're unattainable. I love you.  Very simple, very truly. You're the epitome of every attribute and quality I've ever looked for in another person.  I know you think of me as just a friend and crossing that line is the furthest thing from an option you'd ever consider.  But I can't do this any longer.  I can't stand next to you without wanting to hold you.  I can't look into your eyes without feeling that longing you only read about in trashy romance novels. I can't talk to you without wanting to express my love for everything you are.  I know this will probably queer our friendship - no pun intended - but I had to say it, because I've never felt this before, and I like who I am because of it.  And if bringing it to light means we can't hang out anymore, then that hurts me.  But I couldn't allow another     day to go by without getting it out there, regardless of the outcome, which by the look on your face is to be the inevitable shoot- down.  And I'll accept that But I know some part of you is hesitating for a moment, and if there is a moment of hesitation, that means you feel something too.  All I ask is that you not suppress that - at least for ten minutes - and try to dwell in it before you dismiss it. There isn't another soul on this fucking planet who's ever made me the person I am when I'm with you, and I would risk this friendship for the chance to take it to the next plateau. Because it's there between you and me. You can't deny that.  And even if we never speak again after tonight, please know that I'm forever changed because of you and what you've meant to me, which - while I do appreciate it - I'd never need a painting of birds bought at a diner to remind me of.
holden		Was it something I said?
holden		What are you doing?
alyssa		Get back in the car and get out of here.
holden		You're going to hitch to New York?
alyssa		Y'ep.
holden		Aren't you at least going to comment?
alyssa		Here's my comment fuck you.
holden		Why?
alyssa		That was so unfair.  You know how unfair that was.
holden		It's unfair that I'm in love with you?
alyssa		No, it's unfortunate that you're in love with me.  It's  unfair that you felt the fucking need to unburden your soul about it.  Do you remember for a fucking second who I am?
holden		So?  People change.
alyssa		Oh, it's that simple?  You fall in love with me and want a romantic relationship, nothing changes for you with the exception of feeling hunky- dorey all the time.  But what about- me?  It's not that simple, is it?  I can't just get into a relationship with you without throwing my whole fucking world into upheaval!
holden		But that's every relationship! There's always going to be a period of adjustment.
alyssa		Period of adjustment?!?  THERE'S NO 'PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT' HOLDEN!  I'M FUCKING GAY!  THAT'S WHO I AM!  AND YOU ASSUME I CAN TURN THAT AROUND JUST BECAUSE YOU'VE GOT A CRUSH?!?
holden		If this is a crush... then I don't know if I could take the real thing if it ever happens.
alyssa		Go home, Holden.
alyssa		 I take it that's not good.
banky		Catholic school girls.
banky		The uniform is what does it for me.  I wish I'd have went with more Catholic school girls when I was a kid.  As it stands.  I have no "...and then she unzipped her jumper..." stories.
holden		You looked weirded out back there.
banky		That's my couch you were fucking on.
holden		Sorry.
banky		I wanted to watch some TV.  Hard to do when your best friend's wrapped around a naked rug-muncher on your couch.
holden		She had boxers on.
banky		This is all going to end badly.
holden		You don't know that.
banky		I know you.  You're way too conservative for that girl.  She's been around and seen things we've only read about in books.
holden		But we have read about them.  So we're prepared.
banky		There's no 'we' here.  You're going to have to go through this alone.  And it's one thing to read about shit, and something different when you're forced to deal with it on a regular basis. When you guys are walking in the mall and both your heads turn at a really nice looking chick, it's going to eat you up inside.  You'll spend most of your time wondering when the other shoe's going to drop.  Because for you, this isn't about cool weird sex stuff, it's about love.
holden		Maybe it is for her as well.
banky		Somehow I doubt it.
holden		Everyone's not out to get someone in life.  Bank.
banky		Everybody has an agenda.  Everyone.
holden		Yourself?
banky		My agenda is to watch your back.
holden		To what end?
banky		To insure that all this time we've spent together, building something, wasn't wasted.
holden		She's not going to ruin the comic.
banky		I wasn't talking about the comic.  I'm going to gel a bagel.  Clean off my fucking couch so I can watch TV.
dalia		From what I understand, when you sign with a publisher, someone else does all this work for you, and you just sit back and collect.
alyssa		And miss these last minute cram sessions with my nearest and dearest? Never.
tory		I don't know what she's bitching about.  All she's done since we got here is pound Merlot.
dalia		I'm sorry weren't you the one who misspelled 'receipt' on page eighteen? Yeah, you're a real help.
nica		What I'd like to know is why we're here at all when we haven't seen Princess funny-Book in a month.
jane		Yeah Alyssa - who've you been shacking up with?
alyssa		'Shacking up!' Please.  I'm so in love!
alyssa		I know.  I know -I feel like such a goon.  But I can't help it - we have such a great time together.
dalia		Who is it?  Don't even tell me it's Ms. Thing from the C.D. place.  I'll kill you.
alyssa		It's not her.  It's someone you guys don't know.
nica		That chick you left the restaurant with that night?
alyssa		They're not.  From around here.
tory		Don't even tell me you met her down the shore!
jane		Eww!  Not a bridge-and-tunnel Jersey dyke!
tory		With huge hair and acid-washed jeans!
dalia		Come on, Alyss - Hoboken Hussy or what?
alyssa		For your information, they don't have big hair or wear acid wash.  They're from my home town.
dalia		Why are you playing the pronoun game?
alyssa		What?  What are you talking about? I'm not even.
dalia		You are. "I met someone."  "We have a great time.  "They're from my home town."  Doesn't this tube of wonderful have a name!
alyssa		 Holden.
jane		Oh, Alyssa - no.  Not you.
tory		You're dating a guy?
alyssa		He's not like a typical man.  He's really sweet to me, and we relate so well.  You guys'd love him, really.
dalia		I've gotta go to the store.
jane		I'll go with.
tory		 Another one bites the dust.
holden		Can I ask you something?
alyssa		Don't even tell me you want to do it again.
holden		Why me - you know?  Why now?
alyssa		Because you were giving me that look, and I got wet...
holden		You know what I'm talking about.
alyssa		Why not You?
holden		I'm a guy.  You're attracted to girls.
alyssa		I see you've been taking notes. Historically, yes  that's true.
holden		Then why this?
alyssa		I've given that a lot of thought, you know?  I mean, now that I'm being ostracized by my friends, I've had a lot of time to think about all of this.  And what I've come up with is really simple: I came to this on my terms.  I didn't just heed what I was taught, you  know?  Men and women should be together, it's the natural way - that kind of thing.  I'm not with you because of what family, society, life tried to instill in me from day one.  The way the world is - how seldom you meet that one person who gets you... it's so rare.   My parents didn't really have it.  There was no example set for me in the world of male/female relation ships.  And to cut oneself off from finding that person - to immediately half your options by eliminating the possibility of finding that one person within your own gender... that just seemed stupid. So I didn't.  And by leaving my options open, I was branded 'gay', which to me was no big deal - labels are labels, you know?  They define what you do, not who you are, I guess. But         then you come along.  You - the one least likely; I mean, you were a guy.
holden		Still am.
alyssa		And while I was falling for you, I put a ceiling on that, because you were a guy. Until I remembered why I opened the door to women in the first place - to not limit the likelihood of finding that one person who'd compliment me so completely.  And so here we are, I was thorough when I looked for you, and I feel justified lying in your arms - because I got here on my terms, and have no question that there was someplace I didn't look.  And that makes all the difference.
holden		 Shit.
alyssa		What?
holden		Well, you took the luster our of it.
alyssa		What luster?
holden		 Of how I brought you back from the other side.  How all you needed was the right man to turn you around.
alyssa		You're not the right man.  You're just the one.
holden		Can I at least cell people that all you needed was some serious deep- dicking?
banky		Check out page forty eight.
holden		 So?
banky		Did you see the nickname?
holden		'Finger Cuffs'.
banky		And...?
holden		And... she had a weird nick-name. What's your point?
banky		Do you know why it's 'Finger Cuffs'?
holden		I suppose you do.
banky		I do.  You remember Cohee Lundin?  Left Hudson and went to North our senior year?
holden		Yeah.
banky		Well, I ran into him at Food City the other day, and we got to talking, and I mentioned that you were dating Alyssa, and he said..
cohee		Alyssa Jones?  Shit.  I know Alyssa Jones.  I mean, I know Alyssa Jones, you know what I'm saying? Me and Rick Derris used to hang our with her for awhile, right?  Just hanging around her house after school, 'cuz her parents were like never home, and shit.  And one day, Rick just whips it out, and starts rubbing it on her leg and shit; chasing her around the living room - I was dying.  But you know what the crazy bitch did? She fucking drops to her knees, and just starts sucking him off right in front of me!  Like I wasn't even there man!  I almost died!  But that's not the fucked up part - the fucked up part was Rick, man - right in the middle of it, he turns to me and he's pointing at her and he says "Cohee." Just like that - "Cohee."  So I'm like I'll give it a shot.  And I start pulling her pants down all slow, 'cuz I figure any second she's gonna turn around and belt me in the mouth, right?  But yo, check this shit out - she's all into it man!  She don't try to stop me or nothing!  She's all wet and shit, and I just went to work, know what I'm saying?  Me and Rick are going to town on this crazy bitch, and she's just loving it, all moaning and shit!  It was fucked up! So Rick's the one that came up with the nickname - 'cuz that day, she had us locked in tight from both sides - like a pair of goddamn Chinese finger cuffs!
holden		He's full of shit.
banky		Cohee's a lot of things, but an exxagerator he's not.  The dude's Catholic.
holden		She's never even been with a guy.
banky		That's what she says.  But I say her on her hands and knees getting filled out like an application constitutes 'being with a guy'.
holden		He's pulling your chain.  And the fact that you even bought it for a second makes you look like an idiot.
banky		I'm getting your back, asshole! People don't forget shit like 'Finger Cuffs'.  And if it got out that she's queer as well, how do you think it's going to make you look?
holden		I give a shit what people think.
banky		Alright, forget about that; what if she's carrying a disease?  That was just one story - what if there's more?
holden		 You're such a fucking asshole.
banky		What?  Oh, it's not possible that she's all crudded up?  Cohee I can vouch for as clean - the dude never got laid in high school.  But Derris is an arch fucking bush-man!  Name me one chick in our senior class that Rick Derris didn't nail, for Christ's sake!
holden		Would you let this go?  I'm telling you - she's never even been with a guy, let alone those two zeroes.
banky		And I'm telling you, the bitch could be a bigger fucking germ farm than that monkey in 'Outbreak'!
holden		Give it a rest!  Do you hear me?!  I'm tired of this shit!  She's my goddamn girlfriend, do you understand?!  Show her a little fucking respect! And if you ever even so much as mention that Alyssa looks a little peaked from now on, I'll put your fucking teeth down your throat!
banky		Maybe I'll put your fucking teeth down your throat.
holden		 Not bloody Likely.
banky		 You better be ready to make that M-TV deal!
hooper		Where's that bitch partner of your's been?
holden		Sulking.  He's having a real problem with this Alyssa thing.
hooper		I think it's more like Banky's having a problem with all things not hetero right about now.  And I'm just another paradigm of said aberration.
holden		Banky does not hate gays, you know that.
hooper		But I do think he is a bit homophobic. And this latest episode between you and Ms. Thing has tapped into that. In his warped perception, he lost you to the dark side - which is she.
holden		You make it sound like me and him were dating.
hooper		Don't kid yourself - that boy loves you in a way that he's not ready to deal with.
holden		 He's been digging up dirt on Alyssa.
hooper		And just what has Mister Angela Lansbury uncovered about your lady fair?
holden		He heard some bullshit story that she took on two guys.
hooper		Really?  Well then he's barking up the wrong we if he wants to split you up, isn't he?  He's not going to make you see the error of your ways by pointing out how truly gay she's not  This one?
holden		Have it.  Actually, it's kind of gotten to me.
hooper		How so?
holden		Banky's not known for believing misinformation.  He's got a pretty good bullshit detector.
hooper		So, what if it is true?  Would that bother you?
holden		Sex with multiple partners?
holden		At the same time.
holden		Thanks for being so comforting.
hooper		So what do you care?
holden		Well that's the thing, isn't it?  I shouldn't.. but it gets to me.
hooper		Kind of gal Alyssa is, you don't think she's been in the middle of an all - girl group-grope?
holden		You see - that doesn't bother me.  But the thought of her and guys... Uh!
hooper		Oh Holden, I beg you - please don't drop fifty stories in my opinion of you by falling prey to that latest of trendy beasts.
holden		Which is?
hooper		Lesbian chic.  It's oh-so acceptable to be a gay girl nowadays.  People think it's cute, because they've got this fool picture in their heads about lipstick lesbians - like they all resemble Alyssa - while most of them look more like you.
holden		Do I detect a little inter-subculture cattiness?
hooper		Gay or straight - ugly's still ugly. And most of those boys are scary.
holden		I thought fags were all supposed to be super-supportive of one another.
hooper		Screw that 'all for one' shit.  I gotta deal with being the minority in the minority of the minority, and nobody's supporting my ass?  While the whole of society is fawning over girls- on-girls, here I sit - a reviled gay man, and to top that off,  I'm a gay black man - notoriously the most swishy of the bunch.
holden		Three strikes.
hooper		Hey, hey!  There's a line.
kid		Are you Hooper X?
hooper		 A-salaam Alaikum, little brother.
kid		Could you sign my comic?
hooper		 See that guy there?  He's the devil, you understand?  Never take your eye off the Man.  Our people took their eyes off him one time, and he had us in chains in two shakes of his snake's tail.
hooper		Fight the power, little 'G'.
kid		Word is bond
hooper		Look at what I have to resort to for professional respect.  What is it about gay men that terrifies the rest of the world.  As for this hang-up with Alyssa's past, maybe what's really bothering you is that your fragile fantasy might not be true.
holden		What do you mean?
hooper		Holden - don't even try to come off like you don't know what I'm saying. Men need to believe that they're Marco fucking Polo when it comes to sex - like they're the only ones who've ever explored new territory.  And it's hard not to let them believe it.  I let my boys run with it for awhile - feed them some of that "I've never done this before..." bullshit, and let 'em labor under the delusion that they rockin' my world, until I can't stand them anymore.  Then I hit 'em with the truth.  It's a sick game.  The world would be a better place if people would just accept that there's nothing new under the sun, and everything you can do with a person has probably been done long before you got there.
holden		I can accept that.
hooper		Honey, that almost sounded convincing. Do yourself a favor - just ask her about her past, point blank.  Get it out of the way, before it gets too big for both ya'll to move.  Oooh!  'Myra Breckinridge'!
alyssa		Since most of these people are rooting for the home team, I'm going to cheer for the visitors.  I'm a big visitors fan - especially the kind that make coffee for you in the morning before they go.  That was a joke.  A little wacky wordplay?
holden		What do you mean, 'visitors'?
alyssa		Was I being too obscure?  The kind that - until recently - had no dicks and would spend the night.
holden		So that was until recently!
alyssa		Oh, yeah.  Hey - foul!  Foul!  He was traveling or something!
holden		So nobody bur me has stayed the night at your place since we got together?
alyssa		 Something on your mind, Holden?
holden		No, I was just wondering,
alyssa		If I've been 'faithful' or something?
holden		Look, I was just asking.
alyssa		 I told you I was great at sporting events.  Imagine what a bitch I could be if I knew what was going on?
holden		That'd make Banky half right.
alyssa		About what?
holden		He said all the girls from North were bitches and sluts.
alyssa		Really.  I'm sorry - you two left high school behind how many years ago? 
holden		 How about your yearbook.
alyssa		 Right?
holden		What's with 'Finger Cuffs'?
alyssa		 'Finger Cuffs'?
holden		Yeah.  In your senior yearbook your nickname was 'Finger Cuffs'.  What is that?
alyssa		It was?  Shit, damned if I can remember.  I'd look it up, but I threw all that shit our years ago?  Where'd you see a North yearbook?
holden		Do you know Rick Derris?
alyssa		Rick?  Sure.  We used to hang out in high school.  PUNCH HIM IN THE FUCKING NECK, NUMBER TWELVE!!
holden		Did you go out with him or something?
alyssa		 Date Rick Derris?  No.  We just hung out a lot.
holden		Just... you and him?
alyssa		No.  Me, Rick, and... um... what was that guy's name...?
holden		Cohee?
alyssa		Yeah!  Cohee Lundin.  God, I haven't thought about that name in years.
alyssa		I remember those guys'd come over almost everyday after school.  They'd bug my sisters, look for porno tapes in my dad's closet, raid our fridge. They really took advantage of my parents never being home.
alyssa		 This one day... Rick pulled out his dick and chased me around the house with it!  Right in front of Cohee!  I couldn't believe it!  Guys are weird - I thought the whole size hang-up made you all terrified to show your dicks to each other?
holden		Rick pulled his dick out?  Really? What'd you do?
alyssa		 I blew him while Cohee fucked me.
holden		Excuse me!?!
alyssa		That's what you wanted to hear, isn't it?  Isn't that what this little cross- examination of your's is about?  Well try not to be so obvious about it next time, there are subtler ways of badgering a witness.  Am I right?
bystander		 Jeez, even I knew what you were getting at.
alyssa		 If you wanted some background information on me, all you had to do was ask - I'd have gladly volunteered it.  You didn't have to play Hercules fucking Poirot!
bystander		 I told you these were good seats.
holden		So it's true?!
alyssa		Yes Holden!  In fact, everything you heard or dug up on me was probably true!  Yeah, I took on two guys at once!  You want to hear some gems you might not have unearthed - I took a twenty six year old guy to my senior prom, and then left halfway through to have sex with him and Gwen Turner in the back of a limo!  And the girl who got caught in the shower with Miss Moffit, the gym teacher?  That was me! Or how about in college, when I let Shannon Hamilton videotape us having sex - only to find out the next day that he broadcast it on the campus cable station?!  They're all true - those and so many more!  Didn't you know?  I'm the queen of urban legend!
holden		How the hell could you do those things?!
alyssa		Easily!  Some of it I did out of stupidity, some of it I did out of what I thought was love, but - good or bad - they were my choices, and I'm not making apologies for them now - not to you or anyone!  And how dare you try to lay a guilt trip on me about it - in public, no less!  Who the fuck do you think you are, you judgemental prick?!
holden		How am I supposed to feel about all of this?
alyssa		How are you supposed to feel about it? Feel what ever the fuck you want about it!  The only thing that really matters is how you feel about me.
holden		I don't know how I feel about you now.
alyssa		Why?  Because I had some sex?
holden		Some sex?
alyssa		Yes, Holden - that's all it was: some sex!  Most of it stupid high school sex, for Christ's sake!  Like you never had sex in high school!
holden		There's a world of fucking difference between typical high school sex and two guys at once!  They fucking used you?
alyssa		I used them!  You don't think I would've let it happen if I hadn't wanted it to, do you?!  I was an experimental girl, for Christ's sake! Maybe you knew early on that your track was from point 'a' to 'b' - but unlike you I wasn't given a fucking map at birth, so I tried it all!  That is until we - that's you and I - got together, and suddenly, I was sated. Can't you take some fucking comfort in that?  You turned out to be all I was ever looking for - the missing piece in the big fucking puzzle!  Look I'm sorry I let you believe that you were the only guy I'd ever been with.  I should've been more honest. But it seemed to make you feel special in a way that me telling you over and over again how incredible you are would never get across.
alyssa		Do you mean to tell me that - while you have zero problem with me sleeping with half the women in New York City - you have some sort of half-assed, mealy-mouthed objection to pubescent antics, that took place almost ten years ago?  What the fuck is your problem?!?
holden		I want us to be something that we can't.
alyssa		And what's that?
holden		 A normal couple.
banky		The girl?
oc voice		Yo, look at this morose mother fucker here..
jay		Smells like somebody shit in his cereal.
holden		What took you so long?
jay		We were at the mall.  You bring the salad?
jay		Man, this likeness rights shit is more profitable than selling smoke.
holden		How'd a dirt merchant like you ever learn about likeness rights?
jay		 Little signing bonus and shit!
holden		I'll pass.  Take a look at the issue.
jay		Yeah.  When you gonna get some pussy in that book, man!  Throw some super- villain in with big fucking tits that shoot milk or something, and I just drink her dry, bust some moves on her...  Fuck us.
holden		I'll see what I can do.
waitress		What can I get you.
holden		Nothing, thanks.
jay		Yo Flo - tell Mel to whip me up a toasted bagel and cream cheese.  So why the long face, Horse?  Banky on the rag?
holden		When is he not?  No - I'm just having some girl trouble.
jay		Bitch pressing charges?  I get that a lot.
holden		No.  I'm just at a point where I don't know what to do.
jay		Kick her to the curb.  Girls get to be too much trouble, there's always the 'band of the hand'.
holden		Can't do it, g.  I'm in love.
jay		Ah, there ain't no such thing.  You gotta boil it all down to the essentials.  It's like Cube says - life ain't nothing but bitches and money.
holden		Just what I needed - advice from the 'hood
jay		Who is this girl?
holden		I don't think you know her.
jay		Come on man - I'm people who know people.
holden		You sound like Barbra Streisand.
jay		That's 'cause I got this tubby bitch playing her greatest hits tape in my ear all the time.  You should see him: she starts singing 'You Don't Bring Me Flowers', this faggot starts crying like a little girl with a skinned knee and shit.  It's embarrassing.  I got the only muscle in the world with a weakness for ballads.  So what's this skirt's name!
holden		I'm telling you, you don't know her.
jay		I ain't playing.  Tell me her name, Mysterio.
holden		Alyssa Jones.
jay		Finger Cuffs?
jay		You're dating Finger Cuffs?  Wait a minute I thought she was all gay and shit!
holden		She is.  Or was.  I don't know.
jay		And you go out with her?  Shit, man - you're a lucky dog.  She bring other chicks to bed with you, get a little of that filet o' fish sammich going on?
jay		 So - four tits, or what?
holden		It's not like that.
jay		Well what's it like then?
holden		Right now?  I don't know.  I love her.  But she has a past
jay		I'll say.  Stuffin' two guys, eating chicks out.  Yo - I heard one time, she had this dog...
holden		Eat your fucking bagel already!
jay		 So, if you're all in love with her, what's the problem?
holden		The problem is shit like that.  It was one thing when it was just girls - that was weird enough.  But now you throw guys into the mix - two guys at once, no less.  All that experience...What am I supposed to think?
jay		You think good; because now she'll be all true blue and shit.  The girl's tasted life, yo.  Now she's settlin' for your boring, funny-book-makin' ass.
holden		Settling.  That's comforting, Jay. Thanks.
jay		That's what I'm here for.
holden		I'm lust having a problem with all of it I can't get it out of my head these visuals of her doing all this shit. And I don't know why I can't let it go.  Because I'm crazy about her, you know?  I look at this girl, I see the future.  I see kids.  I see grand- kids.
jay		You're scaring me.
holden		I'm scaring myself.  Because I think so much of her,  and then I can't get over shit like 'Finger Cuffs'.  I don't know what I'm doing.
bob		You're chasing Amy.
holden		What..what did you say?
bob		You're chasing Amy.
jay		What do you look so shocked for?  He does this all the time.  Fat bastard thinks just because he never says anything, that it'll have some huge impact when he does open his fucking mouth.
bob		Why don't you shut up?  Jesus!  Always yap, yap, yapping all the time.  Give me a fucking headache.  I went through something like what you're going through.  Years ago. Same kind of thing with a girl named Amy.
jay		When?
bob		A couple of years ago.
jay		What'd she 'Live in Canada' or something?  Why don't I remember this?
bob		What you don't know about me I can just about squeeze into the Grand fucking Canyon.  Did you know I always wanted to be a dancer in Vegas?
bob		Hunhh?  Bet you didn't know that?
jay		Just cell your fucking story so we can get out of here and smoke this.
bob		 So there's me an Amy, and we're all inseparable, right?  Just big time in love.  And then about four months in, I ask about the ex-boyfriend.  Dumb move, I know, but you know how it is - you don't really want to know, but you just have to... stupid guy bullshit. Anyway she starts telling me all about him - how they dated for years, lived together, her mother likes me better, blah, blah, blah - and I'm okay.  But then she tells me that a couple times, he brought other people to bed with them - menage a tois, I believe it's called.  Now this just blows my mind. I mean, I'm not used to that sort of thing, right?  I was raised Catholic.
jay		Saint Shithead.
bob		Do something.  So I get weirded out, and just start blasting her, right?  This is the only way I can deal with it - by calling her a slut, and telling her that she was used - I mean, I'm out for blood I want to hurt her - because I don't know how to deal with what I'm feeling.  And I'm like "What the fuck is wrong with you?"  and she's telling me that it was that time, in that place, and she didn't do anything wrong, so she's not gonna apologize. So I tell her it's over, and I walk.
jay		Fucking a.
bob		No, idiot.  It was a mistake.  I wasn't disgusted with her, I was afraid.  At that moment, I felt small - like I'd lacked experience, like I'd never be on her level or never be enough for her or something. And what I didn't get was that she didn't care.  She wasn't looking for that guy anymore.  She was looking for me.  But by the time I realized this, it was too late, you know.  She'd moved on, and all I had to show for it was some foolish pride, which then gave way to regret.  She was the girl, I know that now.  But I pushed her away...
bob		So I've spent every day since then chasing Amy...  So to speak.
jay		Enough of this fucking melodrama.  My advice - forget her, dude.  There's one woman in the world.  One woman, with many faces.  We gotta book.  We're catching a bus to Chi-town.
holden		What's there?
jay		Business, yo.  How many more of those phat envelopes do we got coming to us?
holden		I don't know.  I don't know if the book's going to be around much longer.
jay		Yeah?  Good.  I'll be glad as shit when it's gone.
holden		Are you kidding me?  There's millions of people out there that'd love to see themselves in a comic book.
jay		I know.  I spend every fucking waking hour with one of them.  But it ain't like us at all - all slapsticky and shit - running around like dicks, saying... What's that shit you got me saying?
holden		Snootchie-bootchies.
jay		'Snootchie-bootchies'.  Who talks like that?  That's baby-talk.  It's a big world, g - but we're bound to run into you again.  Until then - keep your unit on you.
holden		I'll try.
bob		Do, or do not - there is no ay.
jay		 Jedi-bitch.
holden		I know you're wondering why I asked you both here tonight, at the same time, knowing that we have shit to settle between us, separately.
banky		I just figured you wanted to kill two birds with one stone by telling her to fuck off with me here so you didn't have to go through the story again later on.
alyssa		Fuck you.
banky		Not even if you let me videotape it.
holden		Enough!  I've been going through things, over and over.  And I dissected it all, and looked at it a thousand different ways.  Banky - there's friction between us for the first time in our lives.  You hate me dating Alyssa and you want me to sign off on this M-TV thing.
banky		How perceptive.
holden		Alyssa - you and I hit a wall, because I don't know how to deal with... your past, I guess.
banky		That's a nice way of putting it.  I'd have said the whole double-stuff thing...
holden		 Now - I know I'm to blame one way or the other on both accounts.  With you, Alyssa - it's my fault because I feel inadequate.  Because you've had so much experience, had such a big life; and my life's been pretty small in comparison.
alyssa		That doesn't matter to me...
holden		Please.  I have to get through this.  You're in love with me.
banky		 What?
holden		You're attracted to me.  Just as, in a way, I'm attracted to you.  I mean, it makes sense - we've been together so long, we have so much in common...
banky		 Well, I've got to get home and catch the last few minutes of 'Babylon 5', so I'll be...
holden		It's something you're going to have to deal with.  Bank.  You may very well be gay, which explains your homophobia and why you're so jealous of Alyssa, and your sense of humor as well.
banky		Just 'cause a guy's got a predilection coward dick jokes...
holden		Bank.  Stop.  Deal with it.  You'll feel much better.
holden		Now - at this point, you may be asking yourself the question that I've been going over and over in my head for the last few days: what does one have to do with the other?
alyssa		 Don't.
holden		And when I did some serious soul- searching, it came at me from out of nowhere, and suddenly it all made sense - a calm came over me.  I know what we have to do.  And then you - Bank, you Alyssa, and I - all of us... can finally be... alright.
alyssa		 Please don't say it.
holden		 We've all got to have sex together.
holden		Don't you see?  That would take care of everything.  Alyssa - I wouldn't feel inadequate or too conservative anymore.  I'll have done something on par with all the experience you've had.  And it'll be with you, which'll make it that much more powerful.  And Banky - you can cake that leap that everyone else but you sees that you should take.  And it'll be okay, because it'll be with me - your best friend for years.  We've been everything to each other but intimates.  And now, we'll have been through that together too.  And it won't have to be a total leap for you, because a woman will be involved.  And when it's over, all that aggression you feel toward Alyssa will be gone. Because you'll have shared in something beautiful with the woman I love.  It'll be cathartic.  A true communion.  We have to do this.  For me, for both of you... for all of our sakes.  This will keep us together.  What do you say?
banky		Sure.
holden		You know I need this.  You know it'll help.
alyssa		No.
holden		No?  I... I thought you'd be into this.
alyssa		You did?  What does that say about me?
holden		But you've... you've done... stuff... like this.  This should be no big deal for you.
alyssa		You don't want this.  You really don't want this.  Trust me.
holden		I need this.  This has to happen.  Why can't you see that?  And how can you not?  What does that say about me? You can take it from two guys whose names you can barely remember, but I ask you to share an experience like it - where it's about intimacy - and you say no?
alyssa		 I can't.
holden		You can.  I'll be there.  And when it's over, we'll be the strongest we've ever been because we got through some nasty shit together.  And we'll finally be on the same level together. And then there'll be nothing we can't accomplish.
alyssa		Oh Holden.  That time is over for me.  I've been there.  I've done it.  And I didn't find what I was looking for in any of it.  I found that in you - in us. Doing this won't help you forget about the things you're hung up on.  It'll create more.
holden		No it won't.  I thought about all of that.
alyssa		No, it will.  Maybe you'll see me differently from then on - maybe you'll despise me for going along with it, once you're in the moment.  Maybe I'll moan differently and then you'll resent Banky, and become suspicious of us.  Or you'll alienate him because of it, and then grow to blame and hate me for the deterioration of your friendship.  Or what if- I sincerely doubt it, but what if - I saw something in Banky that I never saw before, and fell in love with him and left you.  I've been down roads like this before; many times.  I know you feel doing this will broaden your horizons and give you experience.  But I've had those experiences on my own. I can't accompany you on your's.  I'm past that now.  I love you.  I always will.  Know that.
alyssa		But I'm not your fucking whore.
alyssa		He's your's again.
fan		Do you know how much it's going for these days?  One ten.  You signing it will push that up even higher,
banky		If you sell it, I want a kickback 
fan		I don't know if this is true, but I heard once that there was going to be an animated series.
banky		There was going to be
fan		What happened!
banky		 You're looking at it.  No Chronic - no cartoon
fan		That sucks man.  That would've been awesome.
banky		Tell me about it
fan		Is that what happened to you and Holden McNeil?  You got into a fight over the rights or something?
banky		It was a little more involved than that.
fan		Whatever happened to him?
banky		He quit the biz.  I guess.
fan		You guys don't talk anymore?
banky		 No.  Not really.
oc fan		Probably shouldn't have killed off Chronic.
banky		Guess not.  Some doors just shouldn't be opened.
oc fan		You don't need that guy, anyway.  You do great stuff without him.
oc fan		You were just carrying that guy, anyway.
banky		 You're so right.
oc fan		Well, keep up the good work, man. Love them dick jokes.  Love 'em.  See ya.
bxvky		Yeah.  Bye.  Okay.  Who's next?
alyssa		 Thanks for reading it.
woman		I'm going to get a soda.  You want anything?
alyssa		I'm fine, thanks,
alyssa		 Okay, who's next!
alyssa		Um... This isn't one of mine.
oc holden		It's mine.
holden		I saved you one.
alyssa		Hi.
holden		Hi.
alyssa		 How've you been?
holden		Good.  Really good.  Yourself?
alyssa		Good  New issue's selling like crazy, for some reason.
holden		Because it's so good.  I really liked it.
alyssa		Thank you.  I haven't even seen this yet.  Did it just come out?
holden		A month ago.  I did a really small run.  Self-financed.  Only about five hundred issues.
alyssa		Will I enjoy it? HOLDEN You might.  It's familiar subject matter.
alyssa		Looks Like a very personal story.
holden		I finally had something personal to say.
holden		I'm going to go.  I don't want to hold up the line.
alyssa		Yeah.  I mean, it can get ugly.  I just saw this nun in line call this small child a cunt-rag.
holden		 Read that, when you have a minute
alyssa		I will.
holden		I'd like to hear your thoughts about it.  If you get a chance, give me a call.
alyssa		Okay.
holden		Nice seeing you again,
alyssa		Really nice to see you too.
woman		who was that?
alyssa		Hmm!  Oh.  Just some guy I knew.
alyssa		 So what do you want to do tonight?
****Dialogues from script :Chasing_Sleep.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cherry_Falls.txt****

cherry falls		SCREENPLAY BY KEN SELDEN FIRST DRAFT
stacy		No.
stacy		I said no.
rod		But you don't really mean it.
stacy		Yes I do. Keep it in your pants Rod.
rod		Maybe it won't stay in.
stacy		Maybe you better just drive me home.
rod		Let me just ask you a serious question first.
stacy		What?
rod		Aren't you worried you could die a virgin?
stacy		 Yeah. I'm extremely worried about that. It's right up there with global warming.
rod		On our way home, a drunken driver could hit us head on and send us flying through the windshield. Terminate us instantly. We'd never experience what it means to make love.
stacy		If sheep don't count.
rod		That wasn't me ...
stacy		I know. I'm kidding you. Chill out.
rod		Well I'm trying to be real here and you're mocking me.
stacy		 I'm sorry, but you're not going to die a virgin Rod.
stacy		Stop it.
rod		 You're being unfair.
stacy		Unfair?!
rod		Yes. Unfair to me.
rod		Stacy! I'm sorry.
rod		Please get back in the car, Stacy.
stacy		Rod?
stacy		Is that you Rod?
stacy		Come out Rod. This SCREAM bull shit ain't gonna work with me!
stacy		 Rod? You're freaking me out. Game's over. I lose. Come out and we'll fuck.
stacy		 NO!
stacy		Help!
rod		Stacy?
rod		Stacy?!
jody		Cut it out.
kenny		Why?
jody		I was supposed to be home fifteen minutes ago.
kenny		So? You're already late. A few more minutes won't matter.
jody		I got to get home.
kenny		Fuck your curfew. Most sixth graders can stay out later than you.
jody		Kenny....
jody		What?
kenny		Jody, we've been going out for over a year. I love you but I'm all out of patience.
brent		It's almost ten o'clock.
jody		Daddy you scared me!
brent		You're grounded Friday night!
jody		What? I WAS AT SANDY'S I JUST LOST TRACK OF TIME.
brent		Your curfew is 9:30 and you know it, little miss.
jody		It won't happen again.
brent		You said that two weeks ago.
jody		Dad ! Most of my friends can stay out until 11 on school nights and 1 on weekends!
brent		They're not all the sheriff's daughter. Goodnight.
jody		Hello.  Hey Adolph, it's the station!
brent		Where?
marge		What happened?
brent		Two kids were found mutilated in the woods. Lock the door after me.
deputy		Her parents reported her missing about an hour ago.
brent		What kind of a person wakes up in the morning and says to themselves, 'Think I'll nail a sixteen year old girl to a tree today'?
deputy		The same type that decides to carve into her stomach.
classmate 1		Jody!
jody		Hi.
classmate 2		Was Stacy raped?
jody		I dunno. My dad never came home last night.
jody		Yes Mr. Marliston?
tom		You aren't planning to tell these kids that 'virgin' was tattooed into both Stacy and Rod, are you?
brent		No.
tom		Good.
brent		But I am going to have to question all of their past boyfriends and girlfriends.
tom		Fine, just don't mention the carving This is going to be a tough enough day as it is.
brent		Hi honey.
jody		Hi Daddy. Hi Mr. Sisler.
tom		Hi Jody.
brent		I just wanted to check that you were okay?
jody		I'm fine. I've just never had someone my age die before. It's so weird.
brent		How well did you know Stacy and Rod?
jody		I've been in the same class with Stacy for years but we weren't tight or anything.
brent		Had either of them broken up with someone recently? Hurt someone?
jody		No. Those two were together before Kenny and I started hanging out and that's over, what, God a year now.
brent		I want you to head right home after school.
jody		I will. Is that all?
tom		Could you tell Mr. Marliston we'd like to see him.
jody		SURE.
brent		Why'd you send for Lenny Marliston?
tom		The kids adore him. They confide in him. His patchouli reeking rear might know if Stacy and Rod were really virgins. Why didn't you ask Jody that?
brent		She's my daughter, Tom.
tom		So?
brent		So you just don't point blank ask your teenage daughter about sex.
tom		Why not? You worried you might find out how much she actually knows?
leonard		You rang?
tom		Come in Leonard. Have you met Brent Marken?
leonard		No but I've always wanted to.
brent		Nice to meet you too. My daughter speaks highly of you.
leonard		We have the same color eyes.
brent		I guess we do.
jody		Go sit next to him.
sandy		Who?
jody		Mark Shale.
sandy		Why?
jody		Don't you want to talk to him? You watch him eat everyday.
sandy		I don't watch him eat everyday.
jody		You stare at him non-stop, like every lunch. Like this. Like most people stare at car accidents.
sandy		The seat behind him is open. Come on, I can eavesdrop too.
jody		You eventually have to talk to him.
sandy		Why? All my mom and dad ever do is watch each other eat and they've been married for twenty years.
cindy		Jody!
sandy		No! That's his table.
jody		You're going to look really amoebic splitting off from me now.
cindy		Did your dad question you this morning?
jody		Just a little.
ben		Did he ask you if Stacy and Rod has ever exchanged bodily fluids?
jody		No. Why?
cindy		He asked Marliston.
jody		If they had ever gone all the way?
ben		Yeah. Chris BERRINGER WAS PARKED OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.
cindy		I wonder why it's so important to know if they fucked?
ben		What I don't understand is why they asked Marliston if Rod was a virgin. They could have asked you Cindy.
cindy		I never fucked Rod.
ben		Exactly. Then he must be a virgin.
annette		You're a shitsucking liar!
dylan		 Better than being a 'cocksucking' liar!
annette		Shut your face!
annette		He's been telling people....
leonard		You can tell me all about it in my office. Calm down. We're all on edge today.
sandy		What's up with that?
mark		Dylan's been telling people that Annette gave him a blow job.
sandy		And she didn't?
ben		There's a better chance that he got head from all five Spice Girls.
sandy		That's horrible.
cindy		I think it's funny.
ben		Me too. I'm going to start telling people that I saw her drop to her knees and latch on to his unit vector.
jody		You wouldn't?
ben		I would if Dylan paid me.
sandy		 What am I supposed to say? 'Nice sweater Mark'? 'Did you buy it at Eddie Bauer's?'
jody		 You could tell him you really liked the way he chews with his back molars.
sandy		You're so fucking lucky your dad is the sheriff.
jody		You are 'sp fucking' wrong.
sandy		You get to be a little Chelsea Clinton. Everyone wants to meet you. Party with you. Have sex with you.
jody		But you can't do any of it. So it sucks. I always have to 'set an example'.
sandy		He's just trying to mess with your head. Ignore him.
jody		Does she fuck?
sandy		 I doubt it. Who'd want to fuck her. She probably reeks worse than the docks down in those panties.
jody		 Mr. Jenkins called on me in class today. It was so embarrassing. I was seriously spaced. I'd been thinking about Kenny for over twenty minutes. When I snapped out of it, I looked pathetic. I was teared up. Everyone was staring at me.
stacy		What did you say?
jody		That I was sorry. I'd drifted off. That I'd been thinking about Stacy and Rod.
sandy		Oh nice save.
jody		I was desperate. It was gross.
sandy		Kenny'll come running back. This is just his way of pressuring you.
jody		He says he loves me.
sandy		Personally I think he has a deep, almost pathological desire to corrupt you. But I suppose that's a type of love. I certainly wish someone wanted to corrupt me.
jody		 Maybe I should blister through a bottle of Tequila and just fuck his brains out.
sandy		No!
jody		You're the one always saying 'Just do it'.
sandy		That was before he pulled this 'Dick me or I dump you' shit. I say fuck his best friend.
jody		I don't know what I'm so scared of.
sandy		Want to come in for awhile? Log onto AOL, flirt with some married men, head into a private S&M chat room . . .
jody		How do you know what to type back when they start to cyber with you.
sandy		I keep a couple of my dad's porno books hidden in my desk for emergency reference.
jody		I promised I'd go right home after school.
sandy		OK. increase the peace.
annette		 Yeah?
annette		Why?
annette		 He should. Four guys hit on me today, and not because they find me intellectually stimulating.
annette		 You do?
annette		Sure.
annette		Help!
mother		Annette. We're home.
mother		 Annette?
mother		Annette!!
mother		Annette?
brent		Is Jody still awake?
marge		She just turned off her light.
jody		Come in.
brent		Hi honey.
jody		What's wrong?
brent		I have a question to ask you. A personal question.
jody		 How personal?
brent		I need to know how far you and Kenny went?
jody		What do you mean?
brent		 Well, I assume you let him kiss you?
jody		Well yeah. Of course. Everyone kisses.
brent		I'm not criticizing. _ Did you two get any further?
jody		A little.
brent		How much further?
jody		Daddy! I DON'T THINK THIS IS ANY OF YOUR BUSINESS!
brent		I wouldn't ask if I didn't have to.
jody		Not much further.
brent		You never went, uh, all the way?
joy		 No.
brent		 Ok.
jody		 Daddy, are you upset that I'm still a virgin?!
brent		No honey.
jody		You are upset.
brent		I'm not.
jody		 I thought you'd be pleased.
brent		I am. I'm so very proud of you. Go back to sleep.
marge		Well?
brent		She's still a virgin.
marge		Did you warn her?
brent		No. Let her get at least one more peacefully night's sleep.
brent		If I'd gone public with this yesterday Annette Michaels might be alive today.
tom		Oh GOD Brent, is there anything you don't feel guilty about?
brent		is there anything you do?
tom		Focus on the present. You always want to change the past. Let's figure out what you are going to tell the parents today, not what you should told them yesterday.
brent		I'm going to tell them everything I know. I'm calling a town meeting for eight p.m.
tom		You tell these people someone is out there killing virgins and we're going to have a goddamn fuckfest on our hands.
brent		Better than a pile of dead teenagers.
brent		I think you all know why I CALLED THIS Town meeting. In the last two days, three of our children have been murdered and it appears that we have now established a common link between the killings.
father 1		Well, what is it?
brent		All three of the victims attended our public high school and all three were or appear to have been...um...virgins.
mother 1		So?
mother 2		 You're almost positive that's who this monster is targeting?
mother 1		Virgins?
brent		We found the word 'virgin' written at both crime scenes.
father 1		Why didn't you tell us this yesterday?
brent		We didn't think this was a serial killer. We thought it was an isolated incident.
mother 3		Are you close to an arrest?
brent		I can't say we are.
father 2		What are we supposed to do?
brent		What do you mean?
mother 2		What are we supposed to tell our kids?
father 2		To go out and get laid if they wanna feel safe?
brent		I think that's' up to each and everyone of you.
father 3		I can't lock my daughter in the basement.
father 2		I wouldn't worry about it Victor.
father 3		What's that supposed to mean?
father 2		Nothing.
father 3		What are you saying about my daughter?
father 2		 Calm down. I was joking.
father 3		Hell of a time to be joking about a thing like that you sick bastard!
sandy		 What are we going to do?
jody		Sandy, you have to chill out, at least two-thirds of the kids in our class are still virgins. He can't butcher all of us.
sandy		There will be a lot fewer by tomorrow night.
jody		Not that many.
sandy		You watch. There's going to be a hymen holocaust tomorrow. Maybe I'll finally talk to Mark Shale.
jody		NO?!
sandy		Andy! I'm on the phone!
sandy		Your services?
andy		I'm willing to help save her life. Jody, if you want to come over right now. We could slip up into the attic for a few minutes. There's an old mattress up there...
sandy		MOM!
jody		Hello?
jody		Yes?
jody		Yeah.
jody		Kenny's aunt?
jody		On what side of the family?
jody		His mother's an only child.
jody		Help!
jody		It was a she.
brent		Are you sure?
jody		She said she was Kenny's aunt Lisa.
brent		What are you doing?
marge		This will relax her.
brent		She's underage.
sandy		Oh my god. ARE YOU OK?
jody		Someone tried to kill me.
sandy		The phone just went dead. I called the police and ran right over as fast as I could.
mother		You're wearing a skirt?
sandy		Bye mom.
cindy		I'm not fucking you. Not for all your CDS.
ben		You want me to die? I thought you and I were tight.
cindy		ARE YOU THE KILLER BEN?
ben		WOULD that impress you? IS that what it takes to impress the empress?
cindy		Your mind is just twisted enough. I believe you'd do all this just to get a dip or two.
mark		Hi Sandy.
sandy		 I was just curious Mark, if you brought a Twinkie today?
ben		 You wonder about that everyday Sandy?
mark		Shut up Ben.  Actually, my mom always packs two.
sandy		You got a great mom. I'm lucky to get a zucchini stick.
mark		Did you want one?
sandy		 Yeah I was talking about Twinkies the other day and I realized I hadn't had one in years. Then I remembered seeing you with one.
mark		They're tasty.
sandy		Thanks.
mark		You can have both if you want.
sandy		No, you keep one.
jody		A little larger nose.
artist		How's that?
jody		That's her.
artist		Brent, we got a sketch.
jody		You know her?
brent		It can't be.
jody		Who is she Daddy?
brent		Never mind darling. You go back to school. I don't want you missing anymore classes today.
brent		IT'S LISA SHERMAN. But she still looks like we're eighteen.
tom		 That's impossible.
brent		 I swear to God. It's her. She told Jody she was Kenny's 'AUNT LISA'. I'm getting this sickly feeling...
tom		Calm down Brent.
brent		I'll call you right back.
brent		You were eavesdropping.
jody		 No I wasn't.
brent		What did you hear?
jody		Nothing. I just picked up the phone to say goodbye to you. You didn't say goodbye.
brent		Ok. Goodbye. Now get back to school.
sandy		You ok?
jody		 FINE. Are you?
sandy		Hurricane Hormone. it's flattened the whole school. Guess what?
jody		What?
sandy		 Mark invited me to the party.
sandy		Shh. Ben's party. Tonight. Haven't you heard?
jody		No.
sandy		 You can't tell your parents.
jody		Ok.
sandy		Especially not your dad.
jody		I won't.
sandy		 It's like a pop your cherry party. Everyone's saying it's 'Fuck or Die' time.
jody		You're thinking of sleeping with Mark tonight?
sandy		Unless he makes a move during seventh period.
jody		Didn't you have something a little more romantic in mind for your first time?
sandy		 I kind of like the idea that we can all lose it together, on the same night. It'll be a lot less scary. You have to go.
jody		Stag?
sandy		Kenny'll want to go with you. Cindy's holding a Q and A session at the bleachers. Come on.
jody		I can't right now.
sandy		Jody, you have to go to the party. For your own safety.
cindy		You all are such hypocrites. All year long you sit on your judgmental little butts and call me the slut from hell. NOW YOU RUN TO ME, quaking in fear, BEGGING for advice...
girl 1		The slut from heaven?
girl 3		Just answer our questions please?
cindy		 What do you want to know?
girl 3		What to do.
cindy		You have to do everything Boys are totally clueless when it comes to sex.
girl 2		Please don't say they need our help with that.
cindy		Always. Unless you want them to just poke around endlessly.
boy 1		Romeo here asked me if chicks has two holes or three.
boy 2		I did not.
boy 1		You did so.
boy 2		I was kidding.
boy 3		Were not dude.
boy 1		I know it's a total bummer that three kids are dead, but, I'm sorry, this is kind of great.
boy 3		I'm way into this. This may be the best of all possible worlds.
boy 2		No. The killer could be offing chicks who haven't given head.
kenny		 Are you O.K.?
jody		I'm fine.
kenny		I heard you got attacked.
jody		I did.
kenny		I was worried about you. Did you hear about the bash?
jody		Yeah. I think it's really sick.
kenny		Why?
jody		Three of our classmates are dead. That's not really the occasion for a party.
kenny		Nobody wants to be the fourth. Please go with me.
jody		Did Sharon say no?
kenny		You know I want to go with you.
jody		I'm so flattered but I can't. I'm grounded.
kenny		Everyone's grounded. There's a killer on the loose.
jody		No I'm really grounded. When I got in late the other night, my father was waiting up for me.
kenny		If you don't want to go with me just say so. Say 'Kenny, I DON'T WANT TO MAKE LOVE TO YOU' but don't use your dad as an excuse. I'm so sick of it.
jody		I'm not using him as an excuse.
kenny		Yes you are. You always do. It's why we broke up. You always hide behind him.
jody		I do not.
kenny		I feel like I NEED YOU DAD'S permission just to kiss you. Jody, it's time to assert yourself To be a big girl. An individual. I'm going to this party tonight. Jimmy's my ride. Come over to my house after school. We'll go together.
jody		I have to go home after school. I have something really important I have to ask my mom.
kenny		They're not picking me up until six.
jody		I'll think about it.
kenny		Yes!
reporter		 A series of savage killings has turned this small community of Cherry Falls, Ohio inside out. In the last two days, three teenagers have been killed, a fourth attacked. The killer seems to be targeting high school virgins. Here's our WWJB reporter Mike Stanton outside the local high school with an up to the minute report.
girl		Hi.
mike		Hi, I'm Mike Stanton.
girl		I know.
jody		Hi mom.
marge		Hi princess.
jody		Mom?
marge		Yes?
jody		I need to ask you something.
marge		You can ask me anything.
jody		Have you ever heard of someone named Lisa Sherman?
marge		Lisa Sherman?
jody		Yeah. Who is she?
marge		I don't know. Where did you hear that name.
jody		I overheard daddy mentioning her to someone. I he thinks she's the killer.
marge		What?
jody		That's what he said.
marge		Did he say anything else about her?
jody		No but he got really weird. Like I've never seen him act. REALLY angry and super uptight.
marge		 I've never heard of her. Maybe something else was on his mind.
jody		No. I think she lived her a long time ago. Like twenty-eight years ago. When dad was eighteen.
marge		Not that I know of.
marge		Where are you going?
jody		The library. I'll be fine.
brent		What's the address? Thanks.
deputy		You found her?
brent		There's a Lisa Shermer living just sixty miles west of here. Over the Indiana border. I'm going.
deputy		We need you here. I can bring her in.
brent		No. I'll handle this.
desk sergeant		Sir, we're getting calls from other towns. Boys throughout the country have heard about what's going on here and they're heading our way, apparently, looking for girls.
brent		Put a squad car at every entrance to town.
sergeant		Your wife's on line three.
brent		I can't talk to her now.
sergeant		There's a problem with Jody.
brent		Tell her she has to handle it.
deputy		As bizarre as it may sound, seems someone is planning to have a big party tonight.
brent		No?
deputy		Should we close down any eruption?
brent		Are you sure?
deputy		We're seeing all the signs in town.
brent		I like the idea of all the kids in one place. If it happens, just keep a man outside until you hear from me. I'll be back in a couple of hours.
miss dunlop		Hi Jody. What can I DO for you?
jody		Hi Miss Dunlop. Where do you keep the old town papers?
miss dunlop		They're all on microfiche. What year are you looking for?
jody		Twenty eight years ago.
miss dunlop		Follow me.
jody		This place is empty.
miss dunlop		Everyone's getting ready for the party.
jody		You heard about that?
miss dunlop		Of course. NO ONE EVER SHUTS UP IN THE LIBARY. Kids were whispering about it all day.
jody		Don't you think it's sick?
miss dunlop		Not at all. In fact, I thought about going.
jody		You Miss Dunlop?
miss dunlop		Unfortunately I qualify. Think I'm too old?
jody		 No.
miss dunlop		You're sweet. I really wish someone had thrown a party like that when I was your age. My life might have been very different.
jody		 Is that you Miss Dunlop?
jody		Who's there?
jody		Mom? You were spying on me.
marge		I want you to come home with me right now, Jody.
jody		Who is she?
marge		She's nobody you should be concerned with.
jody		Whoever tried to kill me was made up to look exactly like this picture of Lisa Sherman, clothes and all. I think that concerns me.
marge		Don't make me order you.
jody		You going to drag me out and me in my room until I go to college?
marge		If I have to. Please let me protect you.
jody		Wait.
marge		What?
jody		 I'm not leaving. I want to know why you and dad are so freaked out. Three of my classmates are dead.
marge		Years ago, something horrible happened in this town. When I was still in high school. A girl named Elizabeth Sherman was attacked by four drunken seniors.
jody		Attacked how?
marge		She was raped. At least that's what she claimed.
jody		You didn't believe her?
marge		 No, I believed her. She was in pretty bad shape. Inside and out. But the boys were never formally charged.
jody		Why not?
marge		They were children of our leading citizens, stars of the football team. And she was  a loner. An angry girl that no one really liked. She'd called them 'queers'.
jody		People thought these guys had a right to rape her because she called them 'queers'?
marge		They were proving to her they weren't. They were very drunk. Things were different back then. You think kids are sexually bottled up today....
jody		And the police did nothing?
marge		EVERYONE JUST KIND OF LOOKED THE OTHER WAY.
jody		How could you?
marge		I don't know. We just did. I guess I was kind of scared going against the gain. Against the whole town.
jody		The word is Mob.
marge		I've regretted it ever since. Never run with the herd just because they're the herd.
jody		Who were they?
marge		Who?
jody		The men. Do any of them still live around here?
marge		Two men left town right after it happened.
jody		You're not telling me something.
marge		Mr. Sisler was one of them.
jody		 The principal?
marge		Yes.
jody		Who was the fourth?
marge		God. It's like everything that was ever repressed in this town is suddenly bubbling up through the ground.
jody		Dad?
marge		Not a day has gone by where your father has not torn himself to shreds for what happened. We both have...
jody		NO!
caretaker		Hello?
brent		I'm looking for Lisa Sherman.
caretaker		She's not here.
brent		You know where I can find her?
caretaker		St. Michael's.
brent		She works at a church?
caretaker		She resides there. Out back. She died a year and a half ago.
brent		Of what?
caretaker		A bullet to the right cerebellum.
brent		She was murdered?
caretaker		No. She ate a pistol for lunch one day.
brent		Can you describe her? How old was she?
caretaker		I never met the woman. I'm just taking care of the place until they sell it.
brent		Can you get inside?
caretaker		I can.
brent		I knew Lisa Sherman long ago. It's extremely important that I get inside and try to verify that it's the same woman who lived here.
caretaker		I don't give a fuck what your reasons are. You pay me ten dollars, you can go inside Otherwise, get a warrant.
kenny		Jody!  Yes! You're here.
brent		Is there a picture of her somewhere?
caretaker		No pictures. No mirrors. Was she a crazy woman when you knew her?
brent		 No.
caretaker		Couldn't tell she going to off herself, huh?
brent		No, you couldn't.
caretaker		I've been in a lot of people's houses and this one's the creepiest.
brent		Really?
caretaker		Yeah. You should check downstairs.
brent		Why?
caretaker		People always keep their secrets in their attics or in their basements. All the weirdness in this house took place in the basement.
caretaker		They look like they'd fit you. Three bucks.
kenny		All our parents are weirdoes. I think my dad is into hookers. I know he lit cats on fire when he was a kid.
jody		 My dad acts like he's Johnny Fucking Perfect and he's really Johnny Fucking Rapist.
kenny		 I think this is a big part of growing up. It's losing your spiritual virginity. It's when you finally discover that your parents aren't anything they told you they were. They're even bigger hypocrites than your friends.
jody		I can't believe I listened to one word of his shit.
kenny		But if he'd been sent to jail, there would be no Jody.
jody		So I should feel happy that he got away with it?
kenny		I don't know. I kind of am.
kenny		Are you coming to the party?
jody		Let's just start a party right here, right fucking now.
brent		 Tom? Lisa Sherman is dead. But you'll never believe what I found out. Meet me at the Roadhouse on Route nine in a half hour. We need to talk in private.
jody		 What's wrong? Am I doing something wrong?
kenny		Just making me feel like a piece of meat.
jody		I'm making you feel like meat?
kenny		Yeah.
jody		You break up with me because I won't fuck you.
kenny		That's not why we broke up.
jody		You flaunt some slut in my face.
kenny		Sharon's far from a slut.
jody		And when I finally agree to spread my legs, you accuse me of treating you like meat.
kenny		Jody, you're only doing this to get back at your dad. It doesn't have that much to do with me.
kenny		Please don't go. Please. Stay, We'll just talk. Then go to the party.
jody		This party is sick.
kenny		Jody. Wait.
jody		What?
kenny		I'm scared. Three kids are dead. I want to go to this party.
jody		Then go to the party. Run with the herd Kenny. Just don't spew out all that 'be an individual, assert yourself' crap anymore.
dad		I know where you're going.
dad		Your brother told us.
sandy		Daddy....
dad		Shh. I'm not going to tell you not to go.
sandy		You're not?
dad		No. I couldn't do that. I have something for you.
brent		Lisa, I'm so sorry.
andy		Just think of it like she's having a flu shot. Purely preventive.
nerd 1		There's Jan and Heather. Let's grab them quick before someone else does.
nerd 2		Ok.
nerd 1		Hide your laptop here.
nerd 2		No.
nerd 1		You can't bring it.
nerd 2		I'm not leaving it here.
nerd 2		Ever play QUAKE?
nerd 2		A computer game.
cindy		 I get all your CDs.
ben		Not my imports.
cindy		Ok not your imports. All your other CDS and your K2 snowboard.
ben		That's an awful lot for ten minutes of beasting?
cindy		Don't flatter yourself. You'll be lucky to last ten seconds with me Ben.
owner		Are you O.K.?
jody		I'm ok.
car owner		Are you sure?
jody		Yes.
jody		 I am.
leonard		My house is just a couple of blocks away. Why don't you come on over and clean those cuts up.
jody		Ok. Should I put my bike in the back of your car?
leonard		Can you just follow me? The back is full?
jody		Sure.
leonard		You aren't going to the party?
jody		You know about that too?
leonard		of COURSE. You're not scared?
jody		Of course I'm scared.
leonard		Then you should go.
jody		You think I should go to the party, Mr. Marliston?
leonard		I really do. For your own safety.
jody		I just feel so manipulated. By everyone. My dad, my boyfriend, and now some psychopath I don't even know.
leonard		We're all manipulated. From the moment we're born. The event that fatalistically shaped my life happened before I was even born.
jody		Really?
leonard		Yes. We have no real freedom. You of all people should understand that. This may sting.
jody		Me? Why me?
leonard		Because of your father. The way what his sins shaped you.
jody		What do you know about my father?
leonard		He's a rapist. Like mine.
jody		_ Your father raped someone?
leonard		Lisa Sherman was my mother. Do you know who that is?
jody		Yes.
leonard		I was born nine months after she was raped. One of the four men who raped her is my father. I have no idea which one.
jody		You're the killed.
leonard		Yes that's the whole point. This is what I was put on this earth to do. Rape the town that raped my mother. Steal its pristine innocence like it stole hers. I've planned this since I was a very little boy. You have no real freedom either. Your father has cast a shadow that you've never eluded.
mark		You're so beautiful.
sandy		So are you.
mark		Now don't be nervous.
sandy		You're the one who's hand is shaking.
nerd 2		Hey! That was a 3k machine.
nerd 1		Told you to hide it.
ben		One more time.
cindy		 I get the imports.
ben		Ok!
sharon		You ok?
kenny		Just thinking about something.
sharon		What?
kenny		There's going to be very few virgins left in school on Monday. It could be really dangerous for them if the killer isn't caught.
sharon		I guess so. Luckily we won't have that problem.
sharon		What are you doing?
kenny		I got to go.
sharon		What?
kenny		I'm worried about someone.
sharon		You can't just leave me here.
boy's voice		Stay put Sharon. I'll hop on over when I'm done here.
girl's voice		You will not!
kenny		Jody was right, this party IS sick.
leonard		 'It's a family affair, It's a family affair.'
leonard		Well, we may be family One in four chance.
leonard		Sheriff Brent, you will be the second of the four horsemen of the apocalypse to die. But first you will watch as I slice up your little girl.
leonard		You're shaking too much. If you don't stop shaking Jody, I'll have to kill before I carve. We wouldn't want that.
leonard		My mother said, after you and your three droogs raped her Brent, that people in town refused to let her use their bathrooms. Is that true? Did people really call her a slut and tell her 'you can't shit here'? She used to snarl that at me. That's all she really did, at least in my direction, was snarl. When she looked at me, she saw only you.
leonard		Open your eyes Brent. Watch. Or will I cause her much more pain.
kenny		Hello? Jody?
leonard		Who the fuck is breaking into my house?
leonard		My wallet's on the mantle when you've finished your rifling, Kenny.
kenny		 Oh, hey Mr. Marliston. W-What's Jody's bike doing on your front porch?
leonard		That all depends Kenny. Depends on why the FUCK you've broken into your history teacher's house?
kenny		Alright, Marliston, I know she's here.
leonard		What are you talking about? No one here but us chickens.
kenny		That was Jody!
kenny		Jody?!
brent		Jody run!
jody		No!
brent		 Run!
jody		My dad's down there!
kenny		He's dead! We've got to get the fuck out of here!
jody		I can't walk. I think he cut right through a tendon.
kenny		Climb on.
jody		Go to the police station!
kenny		Deputy Webber's at the party. It's only three blocks away.
jody		Fuck! It's him.
kenny		Shit.
policeman		We just found another body.
deputy		Who's?
policeman		Tom Sisler. He was murdered at school. Two kids went into his office to fuck and they found him, with his tongue cut out and his foot jammed into his mouth. Killer also chopped off his pecker and stuffed it in his pencil holder.
deputy		Jesus. Any word from Brent?
policeman		Nope. The switchboard is lightning up downtown. Kids from other towns are starting to congregate in the parks and at the high school. It's turning into WOODSTOCK except there's no concert.
deputy		Call Brent on the horn. See where he is. What he wants us to do. I'll head over to the school.
policeman		Ok.
deputy		Don't leave this party until you hear from me.
policeman		But I shouldn't shut it down?
deputy		No. Hell, it's the quietest goddamn party I've ever seen.
jody		Thanks for coming back for me.
kenny		I love you.
officer		Brent?  Come in Brent.
officer		Jesus Christ had balls in his soup, Marliston, what'd you do, eat out a pizza or something? What the fuck happened to your face?
leonard		Hey, look, Elvis.
officer		Where?
leonard		You really are a god damn rube.
leonard		 'Family affair. Oh yes it's a family affair'.
jody		Where are the police?
jody		Oh GOD IT'S HIM!
kenny		Quick! In the house. He won't look for us in there.
another kid		Yeah. Get lost we're packed.
jody		 What are you doing?
kenny		Pretend we're just another couple.
boy		Hey! Turn that off.
girl		Mr. Marliston?!
leonard		Hi Samantha. Excuse me.
girl		 What are you doing here?!
kenny		 It's him.
leonard		Pay no attention to me.
jimmy		What are you doing here?
jimmy's girlfriend		Mr. Marliston?
jimmy		You fucked me up!
leonard		What?
jimmy		You gave me a 'D'.
leonard		I'm sure you should have failed.
jimmy		I was grounded for two fucking months because of you!
jody		Jimmy leave him alone! He's imbalanced.
leonard		Please get out of my way or I'll have to hurt you.
jimmy		I knew you were a pervert. Always wearing those fucking doofy glasses, and driving a station wagon.
jody		He's dangerous Jimmy!
jimmy		So am I! I'm gonna rip your cock off Marliston!
leonard		Touch'
jody		No!
leonard		Come on! These are eighty dollar INDEPENDENT khakis! Limited Edition! God damn it!
jody		Kenny!
kenny		Jody?!
jody		Please! You wouldn't kill your sister, would you?
leonard		You think you're my sister?
jody		We have the same color eyes.
leonard		You're right. We do.
boy 1		It's the freak!
girl 1		He's still got the blade!
boy 3		Come on! It's fuck him up time!
kenny		Come on. Lets get out of here.
leonard		J-Jody. P-please help me. Please.
kenny		It's all over now.
kenny		 I'm all out of patience.
jody		Oh God, this is the way it should be.
****Dialogues from script :Chinatown.txt****

written by		 Robert Towne
curly's voice		 Oh, no.
gittes		All right, enough is enough. You can't eat the Venetian blinds, Curly. I just had 'em installed on Wednesday.
gittes		Down the hatch.
curly		 She's just no good.
gittes		What can I tell you, Kid? You're right. When you're right, you're right, and you're right.
curly		Ain't worth thinking about.
gittes		You're absolutely right, I wouldn't give her another thought.
curly		 You know, you're okay, Mr. Gittes. I know it's your job, but you're okay.
gittes		 Thanks, Curly. Call me Jake.
curly		Thanks. You know something, Jake?
gittes		What's that, Curly?
curly		I think I'll kill her.
woman		I was hoping Mr. Gittes could see to this personally.
walsh		 If you'll allow us to complete our preliminary questioning, by then he'll be free.
curly		 They don't kill a guy for that.
gittes		Oh they don't?
curly		Not for your wife. That's the unwritten law.
gittes		I'll tell you the unwritten law, you dumb son of a bitch, you gotta be rich to kill somebody, anybody and get away with it. You think you got that kind of dough, you think you got that kind of class?
curly		...No...
gittes		You bet your ass you don't. You can't even pay me off.
curly		I'll pay the rest next trip. We only caught sixty ton of skipjack around San Benedict. We hit a chubasco, they don't pay you for skipjack the way they do for tuna or albacore.
gittes		 Forget it. I only mention it to illustrate a point...
gittes		I don't want your last dime.
gittes		 What kind of guy do you think I am?
curly		Thanks, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		Call me Jake. Careful driving home, Curly.
sophie		A Mrs. Mulwray is waiting for you, with Mr. Walsh and Mr. Duffy.
walsh		Mrs. Mulwray, may I present Mr. Gittes?
gittes		How do you do, Mrs. Mulwray?
gittes		Now, Mrs. Mulwray, what seems to be the problem?
gittes		 No, really?
gittes		I am sorry.
gittes		I'm afraid not, Mrs. Mulwray. These men are my operatives and at some point they're going to assist me. I can't do everything myself.
gittes		Now, what makes you certain he is involved with someone?
gittes		Mrs. Mulwray, do you love your husband?
gittes		 Then go home and forget about it.
gittes		 I'm sure he loves you, too. You know the expression, let sleeping dogs lie? You're better off not knowing.
gittes		All right, what's your husband's first name?
gittes		 Water and Power?
duffy		 Chief Engineer?
gittes		 This type of investigation can be hard on your pocketbook, Mrs. Mulwray. It takes time.
gittes		Very well. We'll see what we can do.
bagby		Gentlemen, today you can walk out that door, turn right, hop on a streetcar and in twenty-five minutes end up smack in the Pacific Ocean. Now you can swim in it, you can fish in it, you can sail in it but you can't drink it, you can't water your lawns with it, you can't irrigate an orange grove with it.  Remember we live next door to the ocean but we also live on the edge of the desert. Los Angeles is a desert community. Beneath this building, beneath every street there's a desert. Without water the dust will rise up and cover us as though we'd never existed! 
councilman		 Mayor Bagby... let's hear from the departments again. I suppose we better take Water and Power first. Mr. Mulwray.
mulwray		In case you've forgotten, gentlemen, over five hundred lives were lost when the Van der Lip Dam gave way core samples have shown that beneath this bedrock is shale similar to the permeable shale in the Van der Lip disaster.  It couldn't withstand that kind of pressure there.  Now you propose yet another dirt banked terminus dam with slopes of two and one half to one, one hundred twelve feet high and a twelve thousand acre water surface. Well, it won't hold. I won't build it. It's that simple. I am not making that kind of mistake twice. Thank you, gentlemen.
council president		 Get those goddam things out of here!
farmer		 Tell me where to take them! You don't have an answer for that so quick, do you?
farmer		 You steal the water from the valley, ruin the grazing, starve my livestock who's paying you to do that, Mr. Mulwray, that's what I want to know!
gittes		Morning, Sophie.
gittes		Walsh here?
sophie		He's in the dark room.
gittes		Where'd he go yesterday?
walsh's voice		Three reservoirs. Men's room of a Richfield gas station on Flower, and the Pig 'n Whistle.
gittes		Jesus Christ, this guy's really got water on the brain.
walsh's voice		What'd you expect? That's his job.
gittes		Listen, we can't string this broad out indefinitely we got to come up with something.
walsh's voice		I think I got something.
gittes		Oh yeah? You pick up the watch?
walsh's voice		It's on your desk. Say, you hear the one about the guy who goes to the North Pole with Admiral Byrd looking for penguins?
gittes		He was there all night.
gittes		 So what you got?
gittes		 This?
walsh		They got into a terrific argument outside the Pig 'n Whistle.
gittes		What about?
walsh		I don't know. The traffic was pretty loud. I only heard one thing  apple core.
gittes		Apple core?
walsh		 Yeah.
gittes		Jesus Christ, Walsh. That's what you spent your day doing?
walsh		Look, you tell me to take pictures, I take pictures.
gittes		Let me explain something to you, Walsh. This business requires a certain finesse.
gittes		Yeah, Sophie?  Duffy, where are you?
gittes		 Jesus, water again.
gittes		 Let's have a big smile, pal.
barney		 When you get so much publicity, after a while you must get blas about it.
barney		 Face it. You're practically a movie star.
gittes		 Look at that.
barney		Heat's murder.
other customer		 Fools names and fools faces...
gittes		 What's that, pal?
other customer		 Nothing. You got a hell of a way to make a living.
gittes		Oh? What do you do to make ends meet?
other customer		Mortgage Department, First National Bank.
gittes		Tell me, how many people a week do you foreclose on?
other customer		We don't publish a record in the paper, I can tell you that.
gittes		Neither do I.
other customer		No, you have a press agent do it.
gittes		Barney, who is this bimbo? He a regular customer?
barney		Take it easy, Jake.
gittes		Look, pal. I make an honest living. People don't come to me unless they're miserable and I help 'em out of a bad situation. I don't kick them out of their homes like you jerks who work in the bank.
barney		Jake, for Christ's sake.
gittes		C'mon, get out of the barber chair. We'll go outside and talk this over.
barney		Hey, c'mon, Jake. Sit down. Sit down. You hear about the fella goes to his friend and says, 'What'll I do, I'm tired of screwing my wife?' and his friend says, 'Whyn't you do what the Chinese do?'
gittes		I don't know how that got in the paper as a matter of fact  it surprised me it was so quick. I make an honest living.
barney		'Course you do, Jake.
gittes		An honest living.
barney		 So anyway, he says, 'whyn't you do what the Chinese do?'
gittes		Duffy, Walsh.
gittes		 Sophie, go to the little girl's room for a minute.
sophie		But, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		 Sophie.
sophie		Yes, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		So there's this fella who's tired of screwing his wife.
duffy		Jake, listen.
gittes		Shut up, Duffy, you're always in a hurry and his friend says why not do what the Chinese do? So he says what do they do? His friend says the Chinese they screw for a while. Just listen a second, Duffy...
gittes		 ...you're screwing like a Chinaman.'
young woman		Mr. Gittes?
gittes		Yes?
young woman		Do you know me?
gittes		Well... I think I... I would've remembered.
young woman		Have we ever met?
gittes		Well, no.
young woman		Never?
gittes		Never.
young woman		That's what I thought. You see, I'm Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray. You know, Mr. Mulwray's wife.
gittes		Not that Mulwray?
evelyn		Yes, that Mulwray, Mr. Gittes. And since you agree with me we've never met, you must also agree that I haven't hired you to do anything. Certainly not spy on my husband. I see you like publicity, Mr. Gittes. Well, you're going to get it.
gittes		Now wait a minute, Mrs. Mulwray...
gittes		 ...there's some misunderstanding here. It's not going to do any good to get tough with me.
evelyn		I don't get tough with anybody, Mr. Gittes.  My lawyer does.
gittes		 There's seven ashtrays in this room, Duffy.
duffy		Okay.
gittes		That's a filthy habit.
duffy		I said okay, Jake.
gittes		Yeah, yeah. If she'd come in here saying she was Shirley Temple you'd say okay to that, too.
walsh		Look, Jake. She gave us Mulwray's real phone number and address.
gittes		All she needed for that was the phone book!
walsh		No, no. She said not to call, her husband might answer.
gittes		When I find out who that phony bitch was.
gittes		Sophie.
sophie		Yes, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		Get me the Times. Whitey Mehrholtz.  What does she think, she's perfect? Coming in waving her lawyers and her money at me  so goddam smug. She's no better than anybody else in this town.
gittes		 Why would I be asking how you got them if I sent them?... Whitey?... Whitey?... C'mon, level with me for once, my tit's in the wringer and it's beginning to hurt... yeah... yeah... yeah.
walsh		So he says you sent them?
gittes		 They're all a bunch of phonies.
gittes		Mr. Mulwray, please.
secretary		He's not in, Mr.?
gittes		Gittes.
secretary		May I ask what this is regarding?
gittes		It's personal. Has he been out long?
secretary		Since lunch.
gittes		Gee whiz.  And I'm late.
secretary		He was expecting you?
gittes		Fifteen minutes ago. Why don't I go in and wait?
yelburton		Can I help you?  Russ Yelburton, Deputy Chief in the Department.
gittes		 J.J. Gittes. And it's not a departmental matter.
yelburton		I wonder if you'd care to wait in my office?
yelburton		 You see, this whole business in the paper with Mr. Mulwray has us all on edge.
yelburton		After all, you work with a man for a certain length of time, you come to know him, his habits, his values, and so forth. Well either he's the kind who chases after women or he isn't.
gittes		And Mulwray isn't?
yelburton		He never even kids about it.
gittes		Maybe he takes it very seriously.
gittes		You don't happen to know where Mr. Mulwray's having lunch?
yelburton		I'm sorry, I --
gittes		Well, tell him I'll be back.
gittes		 Mind if I take one of your cards? In case I want to get in touch with you again.
yelburton		Help yourself.
gittes		Mulvihlll, what are you doing here?
mulvihill		They shut my water off, what's it to you?
gittes		How'd you find out? You don't drink it, you don't take a bath in it, maybe they sent you a letter. Ah, but then you'd have to be able to read.
gittes		 Do you know Claude Mulvihill here?
yelburton		Hope so. He's working for us.
gittes		J.J. Gittes to see Mr. Mulwray.
chinese butler		Please.
chinese butler		You wait, please.
gardener		 Bad for glass.
gittes		 Yeah sure. Bad for glass.
evelyn		Yes, Mr. Gittes?
gittes		Actually, I'm here to see your husband, Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		Would you like something to drink?
gittes		What are you having?
evelyn		Iced tea.
gittes		Yeah. Fine, thank you.
evelyn		My husband's at the office.
gittes		Actually he's not. And he's moved from his apartment at the El Macando.
evelyn		 That's not his apartment.
gittes		Anyway... I... the point is, Mrs. Mulwray.  I'm not in business to be loved, but I am in business, and believe me, whoever set up your husband, set me up. L.A.'s a small town, people talk.
gittes		 I'm just trying to make a living, and I don't want to become a local Joke.
evelyn		Mr. Gittes, you've talked me into it. I'll drop the lawsuit.
gittes		What?
evelyn		I said I'll drop it.
evelyn		 So let's just drop the whole thing. Sugar?  Lemon?
gittes		Mrs. Mulwray?
evelyn		 Yes, Mr. Gittes?
gittes		I don't want to drop it.
gittes		I should talk this over with your husband.
evelyn		 Why?... What on earth for?  Look, Hollis seems to think you're an innocent man.
gittes		Well, I've been accused of many things, Mrs. Mulwray, but never that.
gittes		 You see, somebody went to a lot of trouble here, and I want to find out, lawsuit or no lawsuit. I'm not the one who's supposed to be caught with my pants down... so I'd like to see your husband. Unless that's a problem.
evelyn		 What do you mean?
gittes		May I speak frankly, Mrs. Mulwray?
evelyn		You may if you can, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		 Well, that little girlfriend, she was attractive in a cheap sort of way of course.  She's disappeared. Maybe they disappeared together somewhere.
evelyn		 Suppose they did. How does it concern you?
gittes		Nothing personal, Mrs. Mulwray, I just --
evelyn		It's very personal. It couldn't be more personal. Is this a business or an obsession with you?
gittes		Look at it this way. Now this phony broad, excuse the language, says she's you, she's hired me. Whoever put her up to it, didn't have anything against me. They were out to get your husband. Now if I see him, I can help him.  Did you talk this morning?
evelyn		No. I went riding rather early.
gittes		Looks like you went quite a distance.
evelyn		No, Just riding bareback, that's all. Anyway, you might try the Oak Pass or Stone Canyon Reservoirs. Sometimes at lunch Hollis takes walks around them. Otherwise he'll be home
gittes		I'll stop by.
evelyn		Please call first.
guard		Sorry, this is closed to the public, sir.
gittes		 It's all right. Russ Yelburton, Deputy Chief in the Department.
guard		Sorry, Mr. Yelburton. Go on down.
loach		Gittes, for Chrissakes.
gittes		Loach.
loach		 C'mon, get out of here before --
gittes		Before what? What the hell's going on?
escobar		Hello, Jake.
gittes		 How are you, Lou?
escobar		I have a cold I can't seem to shake but other than that, I'm fine.
gittes		Summer colds are the worst.
escobar		Yeah, they are.
a fireman		No smoking, sir. It's a fire hazard this time of year.
escobar		I think we can make an exception. I'll see he's careful with the matches.
gittes		 Thanks, Lou.
escobar		How'd you get past the guards?
gittes		Well, to tell you the truth, I lied a little.
escobar		You've done well by yourself.
gittes		I get by.
escobar		Well, sometimes it takes a while for a man to find himself and I guess you have.
loach		Poking around in other people's dirty linen.
gittes		Yeah. Tell me, you still throw Chinamen into jail for spitting on the laundry?
escobar		You're behind the times, Jake. They've got steam irons now.  And I'm out of Chinatown.
gittes		Since when?
escobar		Since I made Lieutenant.
gittes		Congratulations.
escobar		Uh-huh. So what are you doing here?
gittes		Looking for someone.
escobar		Who?
gittes		Hollis Mulwray. You seen him?
escobar		Oh yes.
gittes		I'd like to talk to him.
escobar		You're welcome to try. There he is.
escobar		It looks like he was washed the entire length of the runoff channel. Could he swim?
evelyn		Of course.
escobar		Obviously the fall must have knocked him out.
escobar		 This alleged affair he was having. The publicity didn't make him morose or unhappy?
evelyn		...Well, it didn't make him happy...
escobar		But there is no possibility he would have taken his own life?
evelyn		 No.
escobar		 Mrs. Mulwray, do you happen to know the name of the young woman in question?
evelyn		No.
escobar		Do you know where she might be?
evelyn		Certainly not!
escobar		You and your husband never discussed her?
evelyn		 He... we did... he wouldn't tell me her name.  We quarreled over her... of course. It came as a complete surprise to me.
escobar		A complete surprise?
evelyn		Yes.
escobar		But I thought you'd hired a private investigator.
evelyn		A private investigator?
escobar		 Mr. Gittes.
evelyn		Well yes.
evelyn		 But I... I... did that because I thought it was a nasty rumor I'd put an end to...
escobar		And when did Mr. Gittes inform you that these rumors had some foundation in fact?
gittes		 Just before the story broke in the papers, Lou.
escobar		You wouldn't happen to know the present whereabouts of the young woman.
gittes		No.
escobar		Or her name?
gittes		No.
evelyn		Will you need me for anything else, Lieutenant?
escobar		I don't think so, Mrs. Mulwray. Of course you have my deepest sympathy and if we need anymore information, we'll be in touch.
gittes		I'll walk her to her car, be right back.
gittes		Mrs. Mulwray?... Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		 ...Just a minute...
gittes		 You left your keys in the ignition.
evelyn		Oh... thank you.
evelyn		 Thank you for going along with me. I just didn't want to explain anything... I'll send you a check.
gittes		 A check?
evelyn		To make it official, I hired you.
gittes		Don't give me that, Lou. You hauled me down here for a statement.
escobar		I don't want it anymore.
gittes		No?
escobar		No. It was an accident.
gittes		You mean that's what you're going to call it.
escobar		That's right.  Out of respect for his civic position.
gittes		What'd he do, Lou, make a pass at your sister?
escobar		No, he drowned a cousin of mine with about five hundred other people. But they weren't very important, just a bunch of dumb Mexicans living by a dam. Now beat it, Gittes, you don't come out of this smelling like a rose, you know.
gittes		Oh yeah? Can you think of something to charge me with?
escobar		When I do, you'll hear about it.
morty		 Jake, what're you doin' here?
gittes		Nothin', Morty, it's my lunch hour, I thought I'd drop by and see who died lately.
morty		Yeah? Ain't that something? Middle of a drought, the water commissioner drowns. Only in L.A.
gittes		 Yeah. Banged up pretty bad.
morty		That's a long fall.
gittes		So how are you, Morty?
morty		Never better. You know me, Jake.
gittes		 Yeah, so who you got there?
morty		Leroy Shuhardt, local drunk used to hang around Ferguson's Alley.
morty		 Quite a character. Lately he'd been living in one of the downtown storm drains. Had a bureau dresser down there and everything.
gittes		Yeah.
morty		Drowned, too.
gittes		Come again?
morty		Yeah, got dead drunk, passed out in the bottom of the riverbed.
gittes		The L.A. River?
morty		 Yeah, under Hollenbeck Bridge, what's wrong with that?
gittes		It's bone dry, Morty.
morty		It's not completely dry.
gittes		Yeah, well he ain't gonna drown in a damp riverbed either, I don't care how soused he was. That's like drowning in a teaspoon.
morty		We got water out of him, Jake. He drowned.
gittes		Jesus, this town...
gittes		 You were riding here the other day, weren't you...?
gittes		 Speak English?... Habla Ingles?
the boy		 Si.
gittes		Didn't you talk to a man here... few days ago... wore glasses... he...
gittes		 What did you talk about, mind my asking?
the boy		 The water.
gittes		What about the water?
the boy		When it comes.
gittes		When it comes? What'd you tell him?
the boy		Comes in different parts of the river. Every night a different part.
gittes		 Goddam Florsheim shoe, goddammit.
smaller man		 Hold it there, kitty cat.
smaller man		 Wanna guess? No? Okay, lose their noses.
mulvihill		Tell him you understand, Gittes.
gittes		 I understand...
gittes		 Yeah, Sophie.
sophie's voice		A Miss Sessions calling.
gittes		Who?
sophie's voice		Ida Sessions.
gittes		Don't know her. Take a number.
walsh		So some contractor wants to build a dam and he makes a few payoffs. So what?
walsh		 Think you can nail Mulvihill? They'll claim you were trespassing.
gittes		I don't want Mulvihill.  I want the big boys that are making the payoffs.
duffy		Then what'll you do?
gittes		Sue the shit out of 'em.
walsh		Yeah?
gittes		Yeah. What's wrong with you guys? Think ahead. We find 'em, sue 'em. We'll make a killing.  We'll have dinner at Chasen's twice a week, we'll be pissing on ice the rest of our lives.
walsh		Sue people like that they're liable to be having dinner with the Judge who's trying the suit.
sophie's voice		Miss Ida Sessions again. She says you know her.
gittes		Okay.
gittes		 Hello, Miss Sessions. I don't believe we've had the pleasure.
ida's voice		Oh yes we have... are you alone, Mr. Gittes?
gittes		 Isn't everybody? What can I do for you, Miss Sessions?
ida's voice		Well, I'm a working girl, Mr. Gittes. I didn't come in to see you on my own.
gittes		When did you come in?
ida's voice		I was the one who pretended to be Mrs. Mulwray, remember?
gittes		 ...Yes I remember nothing, Miss Sessions, just going over a detail or two with my associates... you were saying?
ida's voice		Well I never expected anything to happen like what happened to Mr. Mulwray, the point is if it ever comes out I want somebody to know I didn't know what would happen.
gittes		I understand... if you could tell me who employed you, Miss Sessions. That could help us both.
ida's voice		Oh no.
gittes		...Why don't you give me your address and we can talk this over?
ida's voice		No, Mr. Gittes. Just look in the obituary column of today's Times...
gittes		The obituary column?
ida's voice		You'll find one of those people.
gittes		'Those people?' Miss Sessions.
gittes		Thanks for coming... drink?
evelyn		Tom Collins with lime, not lemon, please.
gittes		I got your check in the mall.
evelyn		Yes. As I said, I was very grateful.
gittes		Mrs. Mulwray, I'm afraid that's not good enough.
evelyn		 Well, how much would you like?
gittes		Stop it. The money's fine. It's generous but you've shortchanged me on the story.
evelyn		 I have?
gittes		I think so. Something besides your husband's death was bothering you. You were upset but not that upset.
evelyn		Mr. Gittes...  Don't tell me how I feel.
gittes		Sorry. Look, you sue me, your husband dies, you drop the lawsuit like a hot potato, and all of it quicker than wind from a duck's ass. Excuse me. Then you ask me to lie to the police.
evelyn		It wasn't much of a lie.
gittes		If your husband was killed it was.  This can look like you paid me off to withhold evidence.
evelyn		But he wasn't killed.
gittes		I think you're hiding something, Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		Well, I suppose I am... actually I knew about the affair.
gittes		How did you find out?
evelyn		My husband.
gittes		He told you?
gittes		 And you weren't the slightest bit upset about it?
evelyn		I was grateful.
gittes		You'll have to explain that, Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		Why?
gittes		 Look, I do matrimonial work, It's my metiay.  When a wife tells me she's happy her husband is cheating on her it runs contrary to my experience.
evelyn		Unless what?
gittes		 She's cheating on him.
gittes		 Were you?
evelyn		I don't like the word 'cheat.'
gittes		Did you have affairs?
evelyn		 Mr. Gittes.
gittes		Did he know?
evelyn		 Well I wouldn't run home and tell him whenever I went to bed with someone, if that's what you mean.
evelyn		 Is there anything else you want to know?
gittes		Where you were when your husband died.
evelyn		I can't tell you.
gittes		You mean you don't know where you were?
evelyn		I mean I can't tell you.
gittes		You were seeing someone, too.
gittes		For very long?
evelyn		I don't see anyone for very long, Mr. Gittes.  It's difficult for me. Now I think you know all you need to about me. I didn't want publicity. I didn't want to go into any of this, then or now. Is this all?
gittes		Oh, by the way. What's the 'C' stand for?
evelyn		 K... Cross.
gittes		That your maiden name?
evelyn		Yes... why?
gittes		No reason.
evelyn		You must've had a reason to ask me that.
gittes		 No. I'm just a snoop.
evelyn		You seem to have had a reason for every other question.
gittes		No, not for that one.
evelyn		I don't believe you.
gittes		 Do me a favor. Sit still and act like I'm charming.
gittes		 There's somebody here. Say something. Anything. Something like we're being intimate.
evelyn		 How did it happen?
gittes		 Been meaning to talk to you about that.
evelyn		 Maybe putting your nose in other people's business?
gittes		 More like other people putting their business in my nose.
woman's voice		You son of a bitch.
gittes		Mrs. Match. How're you?
gittes		Okay.
evelyn		 Another satisfied client?
gittes		Another satisfied client's wife.
gittes		Sweaty?
gittes		Let's get out of here before she picks up her purse.
evelyn		 Tough guy, huh?
evelyn		Oh, no. I've got my own car. The creamcolored Packard.
gittes		 I think you better come with me.
evelyn		What for? There's nothing more to say.  Get my car, please.
gittes		Okay, go home. But in case you're interested your husband was murdered. Somebody's dumping tons of water out of the city reservoirs when we're supposedly in the middle of a drought, he found out, and he was killed. There's a waterlogged drunk in the morgue. Involuntary manslaughter if anybody wants to take the trouble which they don't. It looks like half the city is trying to cover it all up, which is fine with me. But, Mrs. Mulwray.  I goddam near lost my nose! And I like it. I like breathing through it. And I still think you're hiding something.
evelyn		Mr. Gittes.
gittes		J.J. Gittes to see Mr. Yelburton.
secretary		Mr. Yelburton will be busy for some time.
gittes		Well I'm on my lunch hour. I'll wait.
secretary		He's liable to be tied up indefinitely.
gittes		I take a long lunch. All day sometimes.
gittes		Julian Cross worked for the water department?
secretary		 Yes. No.
gittes		 He did or he didn't?
secretary		He owned it.
gittes		He owned the water department?
secretary		Yes.
gittes		He owned the entire water supply for the city?
secretary		Yes.
gittes		 How did they get it away from him?
secretary		 Mr. Mulwray felt the public should own the display. The water. If you'll just read the display.
gittes		 Mulwray? I thought you said Cross owned the department.
secretary		Along with Mr. Mulwray.
gittes		They were partners.
secretary		 Yes. Yes, they were partners.
secretary		 Mr. Yelburton will see you now.
yelburton		Mr. Gittes, sorry to keep you waiting. These staff meetings, they just go on and on.
gittes		Yeah, must be especially tough to take over under these circumstances.
yelburton		Oh yes. Hollis was the best department head the city's ever had. My goodness, what happened to your nose?
gittes		 I cut myself shaving.
yelburton		You ought to be more careful. That must really smart.
gittes		Only when I breathe.
yelburton		 Only when you breathe... don't tell me you're still working for Mrs. Mulwray?
gittes		I never was.
yelburton		 I don't understand.
gittes		Neither do I, actually. But you hired me or you hired that chippie to hire me.
yelburton		Mr. Gittes, you're not making a bit of sense.
gittes		Well, look at it this way, Mr. Yelburton.  Mulwray didn't want to build a dam and he had a reputation that was hard to get around, so. you decided to ruin it. Then he found out that you were dumping water every night. Then he was drowned.
yelburton		Mr. Gittes! That's an outrageous accusation.  I don't know what you're talking about.
gittes		Well, Whitey Mehrholtz over at the Times will. Dumping thousands of gallons of water down the toilet in the middle of a drought.  That's news.
yelburton		Wait. Please sit down, Mr. Gittes. We're... well, we're not anxious for this to get around, but we have been diverting a little water to irrigate avocado and walnut groves in the northwest valley. As you know, the farmers there have no legal right to our water, and since the drought we've had to cut them off. The city comes first, naturally.  But, well, we've been trying to help some of them out, keep them from going under. Naturally when you divert water you get a little runoff.
gittes		Yeah, a little runoff. Where are those orchards?
yelburton		I said, the northwest valley.
gittes		That's like saying they're in Arizona.
yelburton		Mr. Gittes, my field men are out and I can't give you an exact location...
gittes		You're a married man, am I right?
yelburton		Yes...
gittes		Hard working, have a wife and kids...
yelburton		Yes...
gittes		I don't want to nail you. I just want to know who put you up to it. I'll give you a few days to think it over.  Call me. I can help. Who knows? Maybe we can lay the whole thing off on a few big shots and you can stay head of the department for the next twenty years.
evelyn		What's your usual salary?
gittes		Thirty-five bucks daily for me, twenty for each of my operators, plus expenses, plus my fee if I show results.
evelyn		Whoever's behind my husband's death, why have they gone to all this trouble?
gittes		Money. How they plan to make it by emptying the reservoirs, that I don't know.
evelyn		I'll pay your salary plus five thousand dollars if you find out what happened to Hollis and who is involved.
gittes		Sophie, draw up one of our standard forms for Mrs. Mulwray.  Tell me, did you get married before or after Mulwray and your father sold the water department?
gittes		 Your father is Julian Cross, isn't he?
evelyn		Yes, of course. It was quite a while after. I was just out of grade school when they did that.
gittes		So you married your father's business partner?
gittes		 You've got one going, Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		Oh.
gittes		Is there something upsetting about my asking about your father?
evelyn		No!... Yes, a little. You see Hollis and my fa... my father had a falling out...
gittes		Over the water department, or over you?
evelyn		 Not over me. Why would they have a falling out over me?
gittes		 Then it was over the water department.
evelyn		Not exactly. Well, I mean, yes. Yes and no.  Hollis felt the public should own the water but I don't think my father felt that way.  Actually, it was over the Van der Lip. The dam that broke.
gittes		Oh, yeah?
evelyn		Yes. He never forgave him for it.
gittes		Never forgave him for what?
evelyn		For talking him into building it, he never forgave my father... They haven't spoken to this day.
gittes		 You sure shout that?
evelyn		Of course I'm sure.
gittes		What about you? Do you and your father get along?
gittes		Sign here... The other copy's for you.
evelyn		What are you thinking?
gittes		 Before this I turned on the faucet, it came out hot and cold, I didn't think there was a thing to it.
gittes		 What?
old man		You'll have to sit with the pilot.
pilot		 Well, you're not going fishing.
gittes		Not exactly.
pilot		 But that's what you told your wife.
pilot		Lots of fellas do. Tell the little woman they're going on a fishing trip, then shack up with some little twist on the island... she pretty?
gittes		 I'm going to see a man called Julian Cross. Ever heard of him?
pilot		Is the Pope Catholic? Who are you, mister?... I ask because he doesn't see a whole lot of people.
gittes		I'm working for his daughter.
pilot		 That right?... She used to be some looker.
gittes		She ain't exactly long in the tooth now.
pilot		She must be about thirty-three, thirty- four.
gittes		You must be thinking of a different daughter.
pilot		No, he's only got one, I remember her age, I read it in the newspapers when she ran away.
gittes		She ran away?
pilot		Oh yeah, it was a big thing at the time. Julian Cross' daughter. God almighty. She was a wild little thing.
pilot		 Course, she settled down nicely.
gittes		 Well, you never know, do you?
pilot		 That's for sure.
gittes		Why'd she run away?
pilot		Oh, you know. She was sixteen or seventeen.
gittes		 We missed the best of it, didn't we, pal?
pilot		She ran off to Mexico. Rumor was she was knocked up and didn't even know who the father was. Went there to get rid of it.
gittes		You don't say?
pilot		Cross was looking for her all over the country. Offered rewards, everything. Felt real sorry for him, with all his money.
cross		Horseshit.
gittes		Sir?
cross		I said horseshit.  Horseshit.
gittes		Yes, sir, that's what it looks like. I'll give you that.
cross		Love the smell of it. A lot of people do but of course they won't admit it. Look at the shape.
cross		 Always the same.
gittes		 Always?
cross		What?  Oh, damn near yes. Unless the animal's sick or something.  And the steam rising off it like that in the morning. That's life, Mr. Gittes. Life.
cross		 Perhaps this preoccupation with horseshit may seem a little perverse, but I ask you to remember this. One way or another, it's what I've dealt in all my life. Let's have breakfast.
cross		You know, you've got a nasty reputation, Mr. Gittes. I like that.
gittes		 Thanks.
cross		If you were a bank president that would be one thing, but in your business it's admirable. And it's good advertising.
gittes		It doesn't hurt.
cross		It's why you attract a client like my daughter.
gittes		Probably.
cross		But I'm surprised you're still working for her, unless she's suddenly come up with another husband.
gittes		No. She happens to think the last one was murdered.
cross		How did she get that idea?
gittes		I think I gave it to her.
cross		Uh-huh. Oh I hope you don't mind. I believe they should be served with the head.
gittes		Fine, as long as you don't serve chicken that way.
cross		 Tell me. What do the police say?
gittes		They're calling it an accident.
cross		Who's the investigating officer?
gittes		Lou Escobar  he's a Lieutenant.
cross		Do you know him?
gittes		Oh yes.
cross		Where from?
gittes		We worked in Chinatown together.
cross		Would you call him a capable man?
gittes		Very.
cross		Honest?
gittes		Far as it goes. Of course he has to swim in the same water we all do.
cross		Of course, but you've got no reason to think he's bungled the case?
gittes		None.
cross		That's too bad.
gittes		Too bad?
cross		It disturbs me, Mr. Gittes. It makes me think you're taking my daughter for a ride. Financially speaking, of course. How much are you charging her?
gittes		 My usual fee, plus a bonus if I come up with any results.
cross		Are you sleeping with her? Come, come, Mr. Gittes. You don't have to think about that to remember, do you?
gittes		If you want an answer to that question I can always put one of my men on the job. Good afternoon, Mr. Cross.
cross		Mr. Gittes!  You're dealing with a disturbed woman who's lost her husband. I don't want her taken advantage of. Sit down.
gittes		What for?
cross		You may think you know what you're dealing with, but believe me, you don't.
cross		Why is that funny?
gittes		It's what the D.A. used to tell me about Chinatown.
cross		Was he right?
cross		 ...Exactly what do you know about me, Mr. Gittes?
gittes		Mainly that you're rich and too respectable to want your name in the papers.
cross		 'Course I'm respectable. I'm old. Politicians, ugly buildings and whores all get respectable if they last long enough. I'll double whatever your fees are and I'll pay you ten thousand dollars if you can find Hollis' girlfriend.
gittes		His girlfriend?
cross		Yes, his girlfriend.
gittes		You mean the little chippie he was with at the El Macando?
cross		Yes. She's disappeared, hasn't she?
gittes		Yeah.
cross		Doesn't that strike you as odd?
gittes		No. She's probably scared to death.
cross		Wouldn't it be useful to talk to her?
gittes		Maybe.
cross		If Mulwray was murdered, she was probably one of the last people to see him.
gittes		You didn't see Mulwray much, did you?
cross		No.
gittes		When was the last time?
cross		Sheriff's gold posse... bunch of damn fools who pay $5,000 apiece to the sheriff's reelection. I let 'em practice up out here.
gittes		Yeah. Do you remember the last time you talked to Mulwray?
cross		At my age, you tend to lose track...
gittes		Well, It was about five days ago. You were outside the Pig 'n Whistle and you had one hell of an argument.
gittes		 I've got the photographs in my office. If they'll help you remember. What was the argument about?
cross		 My daughter.
gittes		What about her?
cross		Just find the girl, Mr. Gittes. I think she is frightened and I happen to know Hollis was fond of her. I'd like to help her if I can.
gittes		I didn't realize you and Hollis were so fond of each other.
cross		Hollis Mulwray made this city and he made me a fortune... We were a lot closer than Evelyn realized.
gittes		If you want to hire me, I still have to know what you and Mulwray were arguing about.
cross		 Well... she's an extremely jealous person. I didn't want her to find out about the girl.
gittes		How did you find out?
cross		I've still got a few teeth in my head, Mr. Gittes, and a few friends in town.
gittes		Okay. My secretary'll send you a letter of agreement. Tell me are you worried about that girl, or what Evelyn might do to her?
cross		Just find the girl.
gittes		I'll look into it as soon as I check out some avocado groves.
cross		Avocado groves?
gittes		We'll be in touch, Mr. Cross.
gittes		I'm a little lost. Where can I find the plat books for the northwest valley?
clerk		Part of it's in Ventura County. We don't have Ventura County in our Hall of Records.
gittes		I'll settle for L.A. County.
clerk		 Row twenty-three, section C.
gittes		Hauls the huge volume back to the Clerk's desk.
gittes		 Say... uh... sonny.
gittes		How come all these new names are pasted into the plat book?
clerk		Land sales out of escrow are always recorded within the week.
gittes		Then these are all new owners?
clerk		That's right.
gittes		 But that means that most of the valley's been sold in the last few months.
clerk		If that's what it says.
gittes		Can I check one of these volumes out?
clerk		 Sir, this is not a lending library, it's the Hall of Records.
gittes		Well, then, how about a ruler?
clerk		A ruler?
gittes		The print's pretty fine. I forgot my glasses. I'd like to be able to read across.
gittes		 Say, pal, what's he doing?
child		Making some rain.
gittes		Well, you're just the man I'm looking for.
gittes		Some associates and I are thinking of buying property out here. Of course, we're worried about the rainfall.
rainmaker		No problem with me on the Job.
gittes		Yeah.  Do you have any references?
rainmaker		City of La Habra Heights filled an 800,000 gallon reservoir with sixteen inches of rain in two days.
gittes		 Ever worked for Robert Knox, Emma Dill, Clarence Speer, Marian Parsons, or Jasper Lamar Crabb?
rainmaker		Never heard of 'em... new owners?
gittes		Yeah.
rainmaker		 Lot of turnover these days. Better tell them to get in touch with me if they want to hang onto their land.
gittes		Yeah, I'll do that.
big farmer		He ain't armed.
gittes		 Get away from me!
crippled farmer		Answer him!
gittes		Touch me with that thing again and you'll need a pair of them.
big farmer		 Whyn't you pick on somebody your own size?
gittes		 Name's Gittes. I'm a private investigator and I'm not with either one.
gittes		Client hired me to see... whether or not the water department's been irrigating your land.
gittes		Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray.
big farmer		Mulwray? That's the son of a bitch who's done it to us.
gittes		Mulwray's dead. You don't know what you're talking about, you dumb Oakie.
gittes		 What's going on?
dubois		 You didn't look too good, so we thought we better call your employer.
dubois		Look here, if it's all the same with you, we'll get your car patched up. If you'll tell me what your trousers run you, I'll make good on them, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		It's okay, Mr. Dubois.
dubois		 Anyway. Earl here is sorry, too. He wants to give you something to take back with you.
gittes		Thanks, Earl.
gittes		Thanks for coming...
gittes		That dam is a con job.
evelyn		What dam?
gittes		The one your husband opposed. They're conning L.A. into building it, only the water won't go to L.A. It'll go here.
evelyn		The Valley?
gittes		Everything you can see, everything around us. I was at the Hall of Records today.  That bother you?
evelyn		No.
gittes		 In the last three months, Robert Knox has bought 7,000 acres, Emma Dill 12,000 acres, Clarence Speer 5,000 acres, and Jasper Lamar Crabb 25,000 acres.
evelyn		Jasper Lamar Crabb?
gittes		Know him?
evelyn		No, I think I'd remember.
gittes		Yeah. They've been blowing these farmers out of here and buying their land for peanuts. Have any idea what this land'll be worth with a steady water supply? About thirty million more than they paid.
evelyn		And Hollis knew about it?
gittes		It's why he was killed. Jasper Lamar Crabb. Jasper Lamar Crabb.
gittes		 We got it. We got it, baby.
evelyn		What? What is it?
gittes		There was a memorial service at the Mar Vista Inn today for Jasper Lamar Crabb. He died three weeks ago.
evelyn		Is that unusual?
gittes		Two weeks ago he bought those 25,000 acres. That's unusual.
palmer		Hello there, I'm Mr. Palmer. Can I help you folks?
gittes		Yes, I sure hope so. It's Dad.  I just can't handle him anymore, can I, sweetheart?
palmer		Oh my goodness.
gittes		 Nothing to do with Dad. It's me, actually.
evelyn		They just don't get along very well. Dad's a lamb with anyone else.
palmer		 Oh, well, I don't know.
gittes		Naturally, I want the best for him, money is no object.
palmer		Perhaps if we could meet your father.
gittes		There's just one question.
palmer		Of course.
gittes		Do you accept anyone of the Jewish persuasion?
palmer		 I'm sorry. We don't.
gittes		 Don't be sorry, neither does Dad. Wanted to make sure though, didn't we, honey?
gittes		Just to be certain, I wonder if you could show us a list of your patients?
palmer		 We don't reveal the names of our guests as a matter of policy. I know you'd appreciate that if your father came to live with us.
gittes		 That's exactly what we wanted to hear.
palmer		Oh, good.
gittes		I wonder, is it too late for us to have a look around?
palmer		I don't think so. Be happy to show you.
gittes		Would you mind if we took a stroll on our own?
palmer		Just, if you will, confine yourself to the main building. It's nearly bedtime.
gittes		We understand, c'mon, sweetheart.
gittes		 They're all here. Every goddam name.
gittes		 You're looking at the owners of a 50,000 acre empire.
evelyn		 They can't be.
gittes		They may not know it but they are.
gittes		Hello, girls.
gittes		 Which one of you is Emma Dill?
gittes		Are you Emma?
emma		Yes.
gittes		I've been wanting to meet you.
emma		Why?
gittes		Did you know that you're a very wealthy woman?
emma		 I'm not.
gittes		Well you own a lot of land.
emma		Not anymore. Oh, some time ago, my late husband owned a good deal of beach property in Long Beach, but we lost it.
gittes		That's just lovely.
emma		Thank you...
gittes		 Where did you get this material?
emma		 The apple core club.
gittes		The apple core?
emma		No. The albacore. It's a fish. My grandson's a member and they take very nice care of us.
gittes		How do they do that?
emma		Give us things. Not just some old flag like this, but -
gittes		 But what?
palmer's voice		We're a sort of unofficial charity of theirs, Mr. Gittes. Would you care to come this way? Someone wants to see you.
gittes		See you later, Emma.
mulvihill		Come on I want you to meet somebody, Gittes.
gittes		 Can we leave the lady out of this?
mulvihill		 Yeah, why not?
gittes		Okay, I'd like to walk her to her car.
evelyn		I'll stay.
gittes		 Get in the car.
mulvihill		I'll see she makes it.
gittes		 What are you waiting for? Get in the car!
evelyn		Get in.
gittes		 Maid's night off?
evelyn		Why?
gittes		 What do you mean, 'why?' Nobody's here, that's all.
evelyn		 I gave everybody the night off.
gittes		Easy, it's an innocent question.
evelyn		No question from you is innocent, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		 I guess not to you, Mrs. Mulwray. Frankly you really saved my a... my neck tonight.
evelyn		Tell me something. Does this usually happen to you, Mr. Gittes?
gittes		What's that, Mrs. Mulwray?
evelyn		Well, I'm only judging on the basis of one afternoon and an evening, but if that's how you go about your work, I'd say you're lucky to get through a whole day.
gittes		 Actually this hasn't happened to me in some time.
evelyn		When was the last time?
gittes		Why?
evelyn		Just. I don't know why. I'm asking.
gittes		It was in Chinatown.
evelyn		What were you doing there?
gittes		 Working for the District Attorney.
evelyn		Doing what?
gittes		As little as possible.
evelyn		The District Attorney gives his men advice like that?
gittes		They do in Chinatown.
evelyn		Bothers you to talk about it, doesn't it?
gittes		No. I wonder... could I. Do you have any peroxide or something?
evelyn		Oh sure. C'mon.
evelyn		Doctor did a nice job...
evelyn		 Boy oh boy, you're a mess.
gittes		Yeah.
evelyn		 So why does it bother you to talk about it... Chinatown...
gittes		Bothers everybody who works there, but to me... It was...
evelyn		Hold still. Why?
gittes		You can't always tell what's going on there.
evelyn		...No. Why was it.
gittes		I thought I was keeping someone from being hurt and actually I ended up making sure they were hurt.
evelyn		Could you do anything about it?
gittes		Yeah. Make sure I don't find myself in Chinatown anymore. Wait a second.
evelyn		 What's wrong?
gittes		Your eye.
evelyn		What about it?
gittes		 There's something black in the green part of your eye.
evelyn		 Oh that... It's a flaw in the iris...
gittes		...A flaw...
evelyn		 ...Yes, sort of a birthmark...
evelyn		Hello...  No, no, I'll come and help, just keep watching her and don't do anything until I get there... 'bye.
evelyn		I have to go.
gittes		Where?
evelyn		Just... I have to.
gittes		And I want to know where.
evelyn		 Please don't be angry... believe me, it's got nothing to do with you.
gittes		 Where are you going?
evelyn		 I'll be back. Look, there is something I should tell you. The fishing club that old lady mentioned, the pieces off the flag.
gittes		The Albacore Club.
evelyn		It has to do with my father.
gittes		I know.
evelyn		He owns it. You know?
gittes		I saw him.
evelyn		 You saw my fa... father? When?
gittes		This morning.
evelyn		 You didn't tell me.
gittes		There hasn't been a lot of time.
evelyn		What did he say?  What did he say?
gittes		That you were jealous, and he was worried about what you might do.
evelyn		Do? To who?
gittes		Mulwray's girlfriend, for one thing. He wanted to know where she was.
evelyn		I want you to listen to me. My father is a very dangerous man. You don't know how dangerous. You don't know how crazy.
gittes		Give me an example.
evelyn		You may think you know what's going on, but you don't.
gittes		That's what your father said. You're telling me he's in back of this whole thing?
evelyn		It's possible.
gittes		Including the death of your husband?
evelyn		It's possible. Please don't ask me any more questions now. Just wait, wait for me. I'll be back. I need you here.
gittes		Okay, give me the keys.
evelyn		 You bastard.
gittes		It's either that or you drive to the police yourself.
evelyn		The police?
gittes		C'mon, Mrs. Mulwray. You've got your husband's girlfriend tied up in there!
evelyn		She's not tied up!
gittes		You know what I mean. You're keeping her there against her will.
evelyn		I am not!
gittes		Then let's go talk to her.
evelyn		No!
evelyn		 She's too upset.
gittes		What about?
evelyn		Hollis' death. I tried to keep it from her, I didn't want her upset before I could make plans for her to leave.
gittes		You mean she just found out?
evelyn		Yes.
gittes		That's not what it looks like, Mrs. Mulwray.
evelyn		What does it look like?
gittes		Like she knows about Hollis' death. Like she knows more than you want her to tell.
evelyn		You're insane.
gittes		Just tell me the truth. I'm not the police. I don't care what you've done. I'm not going to hurt you, but one way or another I'm going to know.
evelyn		You won't go to the police if I tell you?
gittes		I will if you don't.
evelyn		She's my sister.
gittes		Take it easy... If it's your sister it's your sister... why all the secrecy?
evelyn		 I can't...
gittes		Because of Hollis? Because she was seeing your husband? Was that it? Jesus Christ, say something. Was that it?
evelyn		 I would never ever have harmed Hollis. I loved him more than my own family. He was the most gentle, decent man imaginable... and he put up with more from me than you'll ever know... I just wanted him to be happy...
gittes		 I'll return it tomorrow.
evelyn		Aren't you coming back with me?
gittes		Don't worry. I'm not telling anybody about this.
evelyn		...That's not what I meant.
gittes		 Yeah, well... I'm very tired, Mrs. Mulwray. Good night.
gittes		Yeah.
gittes		Who?
gittes		Yeah?... I do?
gittes		Well, tell you what, pal. If Ida wants to see me she can call me at my office.
escobar		Find anything interesting, Gittes?
escobar		What are you doing here?
gittes		Didn't you call?
escobar		 How do you happen to know her?
gittes		I don't.
escobar		 Let me show you something.
escobar		Isn't that your number?
gittes		Is it? I forget. I don't call myself that often.
escobar		Just to be on the safe side, we had Loach here give you a ring.
escobar's assistant		 What happened to your nose, Gittes? Somebody slam a bedroom window on it?
gittes		 Nope, your wife got excited, crossed her legs a little too quick. You understand, pal.
escobar		 How about these? Look familiar?
gittes		 Yeah, I took 'em. So what?
escobar		How did she...  ...happen to have them?
gittes		Either you tell me or I guess 'cause I don't have the answer.
escobar		You really think I'm stupid, don't you, Gittes?
gittes		I don't think about it one way or the other. But if you want, give me a day or two, and I'll get back to you. Now I'd like to go home.
escobar		I want the rest of the pictures.
gittes		What pictures?
escobar		 This broad hired you, Gittes, not Evelyn Mulwray.
gittes		Yeah?
escobar		Yeah. Somebody wanted to shake down Mulwray, she hired you, and that's how you happen to know Mulwray was murdered.
gittes		I heard it was an accident.
escobar		C'mon, you think you're dealing with a bunch of assholes? Mulwray had salt water in his goddam lungs! Now how did he get that... in a fresh water reservoir?
escobar		You were following him night and day. You saw who killed him. You even took pictures of it. It was Evelyn Mulwray. She's been paying you off like a slot machine ever since her husband died.
gittes		 You accusing me of extortion?
escobar		Absolutely.
gittes		I don't think I need a day or two. You're even dumber than you think I think you are. Not only that, I'd never extort a nickel out of my worst enemy, that's where I draw the line, Escobar.
escobar		Yeah, I once knew a whore who for enough money would piss in a customer's face, but she'd never shit on his chest. That's where she drew the line.
gittes		 Well, I hope she wasn't too much of a disappointment to you, Lou.
escobar		I want those photographs, Gittes. We're talking about accessory after the fact, conspiracy, and extortion. Minimum.
gittes		Why do you think Mulwray's body was moved you dimwit? Evelyn Mulwray knocked off her husband in the ocean and thought it would look like more of an accident if she hauled him up to the Oak Pass Reservoir?
gittes		 Mulwray was murdered and moved because somebody didn't want his body found in the ocean.
escobar		And why's that?
gittes		He found out somebody was dumping water there. That's what they were trying to cover up by moving him.
escobar		What are you talking about?
gittes		C'mon I'll show you.
gittes		 C'mon make a decision, Lou. You're in charge.
gittes		 It's too late.
escobar		Too late for what?
gittes		They only dump the water at night.
escobar		Reach anybody?
third assistant		Yelburton, he's the new chief.
escobar		I know who he is. Well?
third assistant		He says -
gittes		I know what he says.
escobar		 Go on.
third assistant		Yelburton says they're irrigating in the valley. There's always a little runoff when they do that. And he says is Gittes knows that, and has been going around making irresponsible accusations for the last week.
gittes		 Because he just made lieutenant, and he wants to hang onto his little gold bar.
escobar		Have your client in my office in two hours and remember. I don't have to let you go. I've got you for withholding evidence right now.
gittes		Where's Mrs. Mulwray?
maid		No esta.
gittes		 on a trip?... vacation?...
maid		No esta in casa.
gittes		Bad for glass.
gardener		Oh yes, bad for glass.
gardener		 Salt water velly bad for glass.
gittes		Can't quite believe what he's heard,
gittes		Salt water?
gardener		Velly velly bad.
gittes		What's that... down there?
gittes		 ...there.
cross' voice		Hello.
gittes		Have you got your checkbook handy, Mr. Cross? I've got the girl.
cross' voice		You've got her? Where?
gittes		Do you remember the figures we discussed?
cross' voice		Of course I do. Where are you?
gittes		At your daughter's house. How soon can you get here?
cross' voice		Two hours... tell me, will Evelyn be there as well?
gittes		Either that or she'll be in jail.
cross' voice		What are you talking about?
gittes		Just bring your checkbook.
chinese servant		You wait.
gittes		 You wait.
evelyn		How are you? I was calling you.
gittes		Yeah?
evelyn		Did you get some sleep?
gittes		Sure.
evelyn		Did you have lunch? Kyo will fix you something.
gittes		 Where's the girl?
evelyn		Upstairs. Why?
gittes		I want to see her.
evelyn		...she's having a bath now... why do you want to see her?
gittes		Going somewhere?
evelyn		Yes, we've got a 4:30 train to catch. Why?
gittes		J. J. Gittes for Lieutenant Escobar
evelyn		What are you doing? What's wrong? I
gittes		 Lou, meet me at 1412 Adelaide. It's above Santa Monica Canyon... yeah, soon as you can.
evelyn		What did you do that for?
gittes		 You know any good criminal lawyers?
evelyn		 No...
gittes		Don't worry. I can recommend a couple. They're expensive but you can afford it.
evelyn		 What the hell is this all about?
gittes		I found these in your backyard... in your fish pond. They belonged to your husband, didn't they?... didn't they?
evelyn		I don't know. I mean yes, probably.
gittes		Yes positively. That's where he was drowned...
evelyn		What are you saying?
gittes		There's no time for you to be shocked by the truth, Mrs. Mulwray. The coroner's report proves he was killed in salt water. Just take my word for it. Now I want to know how it happened and why. I want to know before Escobar gets here because I want to hang onto my license.
evelyn		I don't know what you're talking about. This is the most insane... the craziest thing I ever...
gittes		Stop it!  I'll make it easy. You were jealous, you fought, he fell, hit his head. It was an accident, but his girl is a witness. You've had to pay her off. You don't have the stomach to harm her, but you've got the money to shut her up. Yes or no?
evelyn		...no...
gittes		Who is she? And don't give me that crap about it being your sister. You don't have a sister.
evelyn		I'll tell you the truth...
gittes		That's good. Now what's her name?
evelyn		Katherine.
gittes		Katherine?... Katherine who?
evelyn		She's my daughter.
gittes		I said the truth!
evelyn		She's my sister.
evelyn		She's my daughter.
evelyn		My sister.
evelyn		My daughter, my sister.
gittes		I said I want the truth.
evelyn		 She's my sister and my daughter!
evelyn		 For God's sake, Kyo, keep her upstairs, go back!
evelyn		My father and I, understand, or is it too tough for you?
evelyn		...he had a breakdown... the dam broke... my mother died... he became a little boy... I was fifteen... he'd ask me what to eat for breakfast, what clothes to wear!... It happened... then I ran away...
gittes		To Mexico...
evelyn		Hollis came and took... care of me... after she was born... he said... he took care of her... I couldn't see her... I wanted to but I couldn't... I just want to see her once in a while... take care of her... that's all...  but I don't want her to know... I don't want her to know...
gittes		...so that's why you hate him...
evelyn		No... for turning his back on me after it happened! He couldn't face it...  I hate him.
gittes		Yeah... where are you taking her now?
evelyn		Back to Mexico.
gittes		You can't go by train. Escobar'll be looking for you everywhere.
evelyn		How about a plane?
gittes		That's worse... Just get out of here. Walk out, leave everything.
evelyn		I have to go home and get my things.
gittes		I'll take care of it.
evelyn		Where can we go?
gittes		...where does Kyo live?
evelyn		With us.
gittes		On his day off. Get the exact address.
evelyn		Okay...
evelyn		Those didn't belong to Hollis.
gittes		How do you know?
evelyn		He didn't wear bifocals.
evelyn		Say hello to Mr. Gittes, sweetheart.
katherine		 Hello.
gittes		Rises a little shakily from the arm of the sofa.
gittes		Hello.
evelyn		 He lives at 1712 Alameda... do you know where that is?
gittes		Sure. It's Chinatown.
gittes		Sophie... is Walsh there?... yeah, listen, pal, Escobar's going to try and book me in about five minutes... relax, I'll tell you. Wait in the office for two hours. If you don't hear from me, you and Duffy meet me at 1712 Alameda.
walsh's voice		Jesus, that's in Chinatown, ain't it?
gittes		I know where it is! Just do it.
gittes		 Come on in, Lou. We're both too late.
gittes		Looks like she flew the coop.
escobar		I don't suppose you got any idea Where she went?
gittes		Matter of fact I do.
escobar		Where?
gittes		Her maid's house. I think she knows something's up.
escobar		What's the maid's address?
gittes		She lives in Pedro. I'll write it down for you.
escobar		No, Gittes, you'll show us.
gittes		What for?
escobar		If she's not there, you're going downtown, and you're staying there til she shows up.
gittes		 Gee, Lou, I'm doing the best I can.
escobar		 Tell us about it on the way to Pedro.
escobar		That's it?
gittes		Yeah.
escobar		Well, let's go.
gittes		Do me a favor, will you, Lou?
gittes		 Let me bring her down myself... she's not armed or nothing... she won't be any problem... I'd just like a minute alone with her... It would mean something... to...  her... and to me.
escobar		You never learn, do you, Gittes?
gittes		 I guess not.
escobar		Give you three minutes.
gittes		Gee, thanks, Lou.
woman		Yes?...
curly		 Mr. Gittes! Come in, come in.
curly		Gee, this is a surprise, Mr. Gittes.
gittes		Call me Jake. How is everything?
curly		Just sitting down to supper, Jake. Care to join us?
gittes		No thanks.
curly		How about a glass of wine? Honey, this is...
wife		 Yes, I know.
gittes		Thanks just the same, Curly. I could use a glass of water, though. Come out with me to the kitchen for a second.
curly		 Sure thing.
gittes		Curly, where's your car?
curly		In the garage.
gittes		Where's that?
curly		Off the alley.
gittes		Could you drive me somewhere?
curly		Sure, as soon as we eat.
gittes		Right now, Curly. It can't wait.
curly		I'll just tell my wife.
gittes		 Tell her later.
gittes' voice		Just drive slow for a block or two, will you, Curly?
curly's voice		What's this all about?
gittes' voice		Tell you in a couple of blocks.
gittes		How much do you owe me, Curly?
curly		 Oh, gee, Mr. Gittes we're going out tomorrow. I know you been real good about it but my cousin Auggie's sick.
gittes		Forget it. How would you like to pay me off by taking a couple of passengers to Ensenada... you'd have to leave tonight.
curly		I don't know...
gittes		I might be able to squeeze an extra seventy-five bucks out of it for you. Maybe an even hundred.
curly		Plus what I owe you?
gittes		I'll throw that in too.
curly		 Okay, you got yourself a boat.
gittes		Tell Mrs. Mulwray to wait for half an hour after you get there. Then if I don't show, take her down to the boat.
curly		 You sure this is okay?
gittes		 Curly, you know how long I been in business.
cross		There you are.
cross		 Well, you don't look any the worse for wear, Mr. Gittes, I must say... where's the girl?...
gittes		I've got her.
cross		Is she all right?
gittes		She's fine.
cross		Where is she?
gittes		With her mother.
cross		...with her mother?
gittes		I'd like you to look at something, Mr. Cross.
cross		 What is it?
gittes		An obituary column... can you read in this light?
cross		Yes... I think I can manage...
cross		What does this mean?
gittes		That you killed Hollis Mulwray.
gittes		Right here, in this pond. You drowned him...  and you left these.
gittes		...the coroner's report showed Mulwray had salt water in his lungs.
cross		 Hollie was always fond of tide-pools. You know what he used to say about them?
gittes		Haven't the faintest idea.
cross		That's where life begins... marshes, sloughs, tide-pools... he was fascinated by them...  you know when we first came out here he figured that if you dumped water onto desert sand it would percolate down into the bedrock and stay there, instead of evaporating the way it does in most reservoirs. You'd lose only twenty percent instead of seventy or eighty. He made this city.
gittes		And that's what you were going to do in the Valley?
cross		 No, Mr. Gittes. That's what I am doing with the Valley. The bond issue passes Tuesday. There'll be ten million to build an aqueduct and reservoir. I'm doing it.
gittes		There's going to be some irate citizens when they find out they're paying for water they're not getting.
cross		That's all taken care of. You see, Mr. Gittes. Either you bring the water to L.A. or you bring L.A. to the water.
gittes		How do you do that?
cross		Just incorporate the Valley into the city so the water goes to L.A. after all. It's very simple.
gittes		 How much are you worth?
cross		 I have no idea. How much do you want?
gittes		I want to know what you're worth. Over ten million?
cross		Oh, my, yes.
gittes		Then why are you doing it? How much better can you eat? What can you buy that you can't already afford?
cross		 The future, Mr. Gittes. The future. Now where's the girl?... I want the only daughter I have left... as you found out, Evelyn was lost to me a long time ago.
gittes		 Who do you blame for that? Her?
cross		I don't blame myself. You see, Mr. Gittes, most people never have to face the fact that at the right time and right place, they're capable of anything. Take those glasses from him, will you, Claude?
cross		It's not worth it, Mr. Gittes. It's really not worth it.
cross		Take us to the girl. Either Evelyn allows me to see her, or I'm not averse to seeing Evelyn in jail. If I have to buy the jail. Hollis and Evelyn kept her from me for fifteen years. It's been too long, I'm too old.
cross		 Stop the car. Stop the car!
cross		Katherine! Katherine! Wait!
gittes		No, Curly, get 'em out of here! Get 'em out of here!
evelyn		No, don't help him. Don't do anything.
evelyn		She's gone. It's no good.
cross		Where?
gittes		 Let me handle that.
evelyn		 I'm all right.
gittes		 Sure, but I'd like to handle it.
cross		You're going to have to kill me, Evelyn. Either that or tell me where she is.
cross		How many years have I got?... she's mine too.
evelyn		She's never going to know that.
gittes		Duffy, go over and sit on Mulvihill.  Jesus Christ, I didn't tell you to bring the police department with you.
walsh		Jake, it's Chinatown. They're all over the place. You oughta know better.
gittes		 Take Duffy's car. Curly's boat's in Pedro, near the Starkist cannery. It's the Evening Star. He'll be waiting. I'll take care of this.
escobar		Mrs. Mulwray, you don't want to run around like that.
gittes		Oh, Christ. Escobar, you don't know what's going on. Let her go. I'll explain it later.
escobar		Mrs. Mulwray, it's a very serious offense pointing that at an officer of the law. It's a felony.
gittes		Let her go. She didn't kill anybody.
escobar		 I'm sorry, Mrs. Mulwray.
gittes		Lou, she will kill you. Let her go for now. You don't know.
escobar		Gittes, stay outta this.
gittes		 Now take off.
escobar		I'll just have her followed. She's not going anywhere.
gittes		 No!
gittes		Where is he? I'll kill him, I'll kill the son of a bitch.
gittes		 Who is he, get his name? I'll kill him.
escobar		 Take it easy, take it easy, it was an accident.
gittes		An accident?
gittes		Get him away from her. He's responsible for everything. Get him away from her!
escobar		 Jake, you're very disturbed. You're crazy. That's her father.
escobar		 You wanna do your partner the biggest favor of his life? Take him home. Just get him the hell out of here!
****Dialogues from script :Christ_Complex.txt****

fade in:		 CLOSE SHOT-QUINN'S LEG  A nervous leg shakes under the table. The appendage seems to be attached to someone who has a lot on their mind.
louis		 Something is bothering you...
quinn		I appreciate the faux concern but I'm fine.
louis		My concern is genuine...
quinn		With our history can you honestly say you care about my well being?
louis		Yes I can, our connection is a product of destiny. I have no ill-will against you.
quinn		1941-
louis		-The Stephen Speilberg film?
quinn		No, there was that little French girl I liked. You..you violated her and torched her farm killing her family-
louis		-Actually you are jacking up the story, I violated her father in front of her...then I torched the farm.
quinn		Well...that makes it ten times better.
louis		Quinn that was war, people do crazy things midst of wide spread conflict. I have gotten jaded over time. It's not like the dark ages when I had style.
quinn		When you would rape the horses and ride away on the women?
louis		Yeah I was such a ham.  Maybe I would feel less removed if you would let me win just once.
quinn		This isn't a 1930's boxing match. If I take dive, I'm not lining the pockets of some bookie...I'm bringing on the apocalypse. Louis takes a drink of his coffee.
louis		See at least our obligation would be over.
quinn		Louis I might be nervous, but I accept my role as savior of this world.  We have been doing this for years-
louis		-centuries-
quinn		-and in 5 days we will do the same thing we have always done. 
louis		Atta' boy!
zoey		...I'm not saying this is an intervention.
rick		Wouldn't there be more people here if it was an intervention?
zoey		See and I don't want it to be-
rick		 -That's because it's not
zoey		It's just...I mean...are you gambling again? RICK  Nope.
zoey		Because...um...the laptop, and you never go anywhere with out it-
rick		-it's my lifeline-
zoey		-Yeah well...I just know when I met you I saved you from that downhill spiral...you know...uh...the online poker-
rick		-I'm not a project, you know that right?
zoey		Of course not...I never said you were.
rick		Because you act like it...I wonder if I didn't have this "so called problem" if you would have even been interested in me.
zoey		Of course I would. I just-
rick		-Take it upon yourself to save people.
zoey		OK...maybe. Honestly we have to save each other, who else is going to do it.
rick		 People could just save themselves.
zoey		True. Is that human nature? People rely on false deities, self help books...Rick the day I realized we were alone in the universe was the day I realized we have to be there for each other.  Plus don't you find it romantic that I want to save you? Like a movie...
rick		So our relationship is like a romantic comedy?
zoey		 A Cameron Crowe romantic comedy.
rick		Oh well...so do you want to see what I'm doing on the computer?
zoey		Yes...of course!
rick		Check that out Lloyd Dobler.
zoey		 Is that...porn?
rick		Red Tube...like You Tube...but with porn.
zoey		Um....  wait...is that?
rick		Oh yes...
zoey		Us having sex?
rick		Oh yeah...
zoey		Yeah...um...I'm not OK with this... RICK Yeah...OK...I'm also breaking up with you.
zoey		What?-
rick		-Yeah not working any more for me-
zoey		What the hell?!? How is it not working?!?
rick		You are yelling...you know I don't like confrontational situations.
zoey		I'm not trying to be confrontational...I just...you are breaking up with me?
rick		-Yeah...Can I have my laptop back now?
louis		This will do.
quinn		So what are you wanting to do?
quinn		Why?
louis		Because you dominate me every time-  -ohh that sounded dirty
quinn		So you want me to help you get an advantage?
louis		No, I want you to help me put on a good show. Everyone loves a good climax Quinn.
anna		You know I don't like interjecting myself into other people's affairs but-
zoey		 -But you're going to
anna		You let Rick do this to you.
zoey		 How so?
anna		You think you can change the men you are with. You can't get into a relationship with someone in the hopes that you can mold them into the person you want them to be.
zoey		Rick needed someone stable- ANNA -Rick needs castrated.
zoey		That's slightly strong.
anna		He was an asshole.
zoey		Misunderstood-
anna		-OK I'll meet you half way...misunderstood asshole.  You have been repeating the same cycle your whole entire life.
zoey		Now that's a little off base.  CUT TO:
end sequence		BACK TO:
zoey		Exaggerations-
anna		-Accurate account of events... The story of your romantic life-
zoey		-Unfair. Because these people need someone who is going to sacrifice their own needs for them.
anna		Why?
zoey		Who else is going to do it? We're alone in the universe. If we are going to make it through this "crazy world" we need to look out for each other.
anna		I think you use atheism and the whole "we are alone in the universe" jive to justify your actions.  I regret taking you to see Dawkins because you use that as a fall back to be codependent.
zoey		First of all you are bitter about the whole Dawkins thing, because you flashed him your tits and got us kicked out-
anna		-You didn't even know the first thing about "The God Delusion" until I gave you a copy-
zoey		-And someone who was huge supporter turns her back because Richard Dawkins didn't like her nipple piercing-
anna		 -Enjoy your delusional life there fence sitter. How about you pray to Thor to hit me with a lighting bolt so I can be removed from this asinine conversation.
anna		You're hiding behind this religious debate because you don't want to admit you have always gravitated toward the "wrong type" of guy.
zoey		 I actually stopped listening to you.
anna		What are you staring at?
zoey		Who are those guys?
anna		The one closest to us is Quinn. Very weird, socially awkward type of guy. I don't know who his friend is.
zoey		What are they doing?
anna		I don't know. Looks like that stuff my ex- Rob was into-
zoey		Oh that medieval rugby style game-
anna		-Yeah the made up sport from "Blood Of Heroes"...Oh...Jugger!-
zoey		-Sounds pornographic.  So Quinn? What else do you know about him?
anna		Oh no you don't! This is exactly what I was talking about!
zoey		What is this MI-6?
anna		You have your sights on him already!
zoey		No, I'm just curious.
anna		What happened?
zoey		 I'm so sorry Quinn rubs his temple and then reaches down to pick up the ring.
quinn		 Is this yours?
zoey		Kinda... Again I'm so sorry.
quinn		No need to apologize.
zoey		 OK?
quinn		 Zoey? Interesting.
zoey		Oh name? Yes, most people have interesting stories behind their names...Honestly I have nothing. Not sure why my parents did that.
quinn		Very unique.
zoey		 I suppose that's a compliment. So I've seen you around school, but never really...in...class...
quinn		I don't go to Marshall, I live near the campus though.
zoey		Oh, well so what do you do?
quinn		As in profession? I don't really have one.
zoey		Really? Rent is insane around here...
quinn		Yeah, my father provides for me.
zoey		That's pretty cool. What's he into?
quinn		Everything.
zoey		An entrepreneur...That's awesome.  Well...So do you like coming down here?
quinn		To the river?
zoey		 Yes where we are right now.
quinn		I just needed to think.
zoey		Yeah me too. I just suffered a break up.
quinn		My apologies.
zoey		No it's OK. I mean I'm over it.
quinn		 My head disagrees.
zoey		I'm sorry.
quinn		It's really OK. ZOEY So what did you need to think about? I mean if I'm not prying of course.
quinn		No, I just have some problems.  I'm not sure about my calling in life.
zoey		I'm not sure anyone is. You know if you need a friend, I'd be glad to...well you know...listen.
quinn		I'd appreciate that. I don't have many friends.
zoey		I know.  I mean...I've seen you around campus...you seem like a loner...I didn't mean you were a loser. Loner is kind of sexy, loser...well can kind of be too...I'll stop.
quinn		No, it's OK. I agree it never hurts to have a friend.
zoey		So we can maybe go out to dinner if you want?
quinn		OK...
zoey		And I can pay, you know..make up for the head...
quinn		You really don't have to.
zoey		No I want to.
quinn		OK.
zoey		Well...  Good let's meet up tonight. My place, 7pm.
jack		So when does Ted Bundy get here?
anna		I promised her we would behave.
jack		You sit your pretty little ass down hooker.
anna		This is why I don't need a boyfriend. You are way to good to me.
jack		Look at this mother fucker.
quinn		 Um...OK?
zoey		Quinn, is he being rude?
quinn		 No quite pleasant.
zoey		Let's go.
jack		 I will call the state police in a fucking heart beat if she isn't here by midnight.
quinn		 OK?
zoey		Anna, you going to call the guard dog off?
anna		 David Smith's Candytakers is on tonight. I'm relaxing and not getting in the middle.
quinn		 Nice meeting both of you.
jack		Get the fuck out.
zoey		 Don't wait up
zoey		Sorry about Jack...
quinn		I like him.
quinn		Zoey I would be more than happy to pay.
zoey		No not at all. This is on me.
quinn		I can cover dessert at least.
zoey		Listen Quinn, I'm an atheist-
quinn		-So you don't want dessert?-
zoey		-No, I just wanted to get it out of the way. It bothers people, I mean in this state especially.
quinn		It doesn't bother me.
zoey		Really?
quinn		I don't believe anyone is truly an atheist at the end.
zoey		I'm pretty sure I'm really an atheist.
quinn		Why's that?
zoey		Because I'm a logical thinker.  I don't mean to offend, I'm guessing you're religious.
quinn		One supports the business they are in I guess.
zoey		Oh my God you are in the ministry.
quinn		 Kind of.
zoey		My father was a "fire and damnation" preacher. Baptist...He's...
quinn		He's?
zoey		It's nothing.  Sorry I don't mean to rock your world.
quinn		 You didn't.
zoey		You poor thing. You are probably so desperate for friends-
quinn		 What?
zoey		Have you thought about St John's Wort?
quinn		You are a very cryptic speaker. ZOEY No I'm thinking out loud mostly. I was just...well...you have some social awkwardness.
quinn		OK?
zoey		Well you are latching on to religion to make you feel whole. It doesn't make you feel whole, or at least as whole as you thought it would-
quinn		You are kind of right on that one.
zoey		So you are out with me...I represent everything you were brought up to combat. You're missing something and you are looking for help.
quinn		I am looking for help. I'm out with you though because I'm interested in getting to know you.
zoey		 See I'm good at reading people.
quinn		 Kind of.
zoey		I don't know Quinn you seem like a lost soul. I thought that when I saw you by the river.
quinn		You like lost souls don't you?
zoey		Yeah I actually do. Someone needs to save them.
quinn		You going to save me?
zoey		If you let me. QUINN I think you might be able to.
zoey		 So what do you need Quinn?
quinn		 Dessert.
anna		I don't know, he seems fishy.
zoey		He seems harmless.
anna		I have heard that a million times.
zoey		I know. He's in the ministry-
anna		-and you hate organized religion.
zoey		I know and he's understanding of that.
anna		Plus it's to my understanding he didn't actually admit what he did. He just did a bunch of double talk.
zoey		It was understood.
anna		Yeah again...not feeling confident in your choices. Please Zoey... ... Be careful this time.
louis		Where were you last night?
quinn		 Out...thinking.
louis		You've done a lot of mopping and thinking over the centuries. It kind of brings me down.
quinn		So what do you need?
louis		Training.
louis		Now this is a place for a climatic battle.
quinn		Not bad.
louis		You will love this. Louis goes to the tote bag and starts to unzip it.
quinn		 It's kind of lightweight..and silly.
louis		Come on give it a chance.
tree		 From behind a tree we see RYAN BLOOD for the first time. He hides in the shadows taking pictures with his digital camera.  Quinn and Louis continue to practice unaware of the unwanted attention.
louis		You have not been lively at all this go around.
quinn		A lot on my mind...
louis		We only do this once every seventy years brother. You have to enjoy it while it lasts. QUINN Louis our whole purpose here, is to show up, and over time establish a social base, and then kill each other.
louis		You know and I'm very good at the social base part, and you are not so good...
quinn		That's because you find a way to screw it up every time.
louis		That's because, I know this is news to you, I represent evil. 
quinn		That's something we agree on. I'm tired too.
louis		I don't know if we can get off this train. It's just a viscous cycle.
quinn		Letting you win is not an option.
louis		I wasn't going there...  ...yet.
jack		Yeah we don't want to interrupt your "date rape".
zoey		Will you guys stop??
quinn		It's OK. I like your friends.
anna		So Quinn?
quinn		Yes?
anna		Zoey says you are in the ministry?
quinn		Sort of.
anna		You are or you aren't.
quinn		It's complicated.
anna		At some point you will have to explain it to Zoey. I mean don't you agree?
quinn		Well...
zoey		 Will you guys leave??
jack		Who is going too far now?
anna		"Date Rape"
zoey		 Bye guys!
quinn		It's really OK.
jack		You know I hate him because it's my nature but-
anna		-You think I hate him because of my distrust of men?
jack		Tragedy changes people, it effected Zoey in one way...you in another.
anna		Yeah  I became a "fag hag"
zoey		Tonight's Feature Presentation is "I am Curious:Yellow". Probably not the best date movie, but I always show this to ever guy in the beginning.
quinn		It's OK this will be my first film experience. ZOEY What??
quinn		Yeah, I've never seen a film before. I mean I know of films, can't live in this world and not. I've just never seen one.
zoey		This might be a little hard-core for your first film.
quinn		No it's OK. I'm excited.
zoey		I feel like I'm stealing your virginity here.
quinn		 You are not.
zoey		 OK? I mean I usually play this for potential boyfriends. If they can handle this, they can handle me.
quinn		 I am curious Yellow...
louis		What the hell are you talking about?
quinn		Nothing really.
louis		You half asleep Quinn?
quinn		Have you ever seen a movie?
louis		I've seen plenty of movies.
quinn		Really?
louis		Yeah I watched "The Sorrow and The Pity" at Marshal the other day. You know people here have yet to figure out we are not students.
quinn		I think they have a pretty good idea.
louis		So in all the times we have been here, you haven't gone to the cinema?
quinn		No...
louis		Why not?
quinn		It's not what we are here to do.
louis		In your bosses name, what is wrong with you? You've got to enjoy yourself. You might be chosen, but you have needs. We all do.
quinn		I have to stay focused.
louis		You've also burned yourself out. You're not going to be any good to me...
louis		 You are a handsome devil.
louis apartment		 Louis spins around and grabs his keys off of the coffee table. He then dances right out the door.
louis		 Weird?
ryan blood		You looking for Quinn?
louis		Yes?
ryan blood		 He just left.
louis		 What do we have here?
zoey		Why haven't I seen your place?
quinn		My place isn't very exciting.
zoey		That doesn't surprise me. I can't imagine you having a vast Blu Ray collection.
quinn		Blu Ray?
zoey		Wow...Quinn, you have to start enjoying the world around you. QUINN You know I realized today you are right about that.
zoey		So you're saying you want to come up stairs and watch "They Call Her One Eye"?
quinn		 Uh...no. I'm still trying to get I am Curious Yellow out of my head.
zoey		Yeah...sorry about that...
quinn		 It's OK.
zoey		I...I..I'm sorry.
quinn		No don't be.
zoey		I shouldn't have been that aggressive.
quinn		No...it's OK.
zoey		OK?
quinn		I need to get back though.
zoey		Puzzling...but I know...virgin and all-
quinn		-Well...I mean...
zoey		That came out rude...I just mean...I wanted to do it. I should have taken it slower. QUINN It's OK. I'll be by tomorrow.
zoey		You sure?
quinn		Yes of course.
zoey		 I hope so.
dumpster		 Meanwhile, leaning against the dumpster, Louis watches the display unseen.
ryan blood		You're here to learn more about his "coming and goings". To find out what I have seen.
louis		So far you are dead on.
ryan blood		It's more than that Louis-
louis		-You know who I am? RYAN BLOOD I know pretty much everything. I've watched you, studied you...I feel I'm expert on your little game every seventy years.
louis		Really?
ryan blood		Oh yes.
louis		Where are you going with this you weird little man?
ryan blood		You had strategy in the beginning. Middle Ages...Old West...Even World War II.  Quinn was a step ahead of you, and looked for a human ally. That ally was Joseph Smith, and Quinn...or I mean Moroni...led Joseph to the plates that later when into-
louis		How do I do that?
ryan blood		This girl is distracting him. Get his mind focused on the matter at hand. At this point I'm afraid he isn't even going to fight you.
louis		I'm surprised this girl even likes Quinn. He comes across creepy.
ryan blood		Maybe that's the key-
louis		 -Make her think he's crazy.
louis		Where have you been?
quinn		You've been waiting long?
louis		No I figured you were on your way back- QUINN -because you are spying on me again? So I don't need to tell you where I've been.
louis		Who's the girl?
quinn		It's started again. You're already jealous. You are going to do the same thing you did during the war...you're going to sabotage this.
louis		I'm insulted frankly.
quinn		Don't you play that game. You are being facetious.
louis		No, I'm being serious. You care about the girl, it's obvious. Not in a friendship or I'm curious about human behavior way.
quinn		So why are you here?
louis		Have you told her?
quinn		Who I am? Of course not!
louis		Quinn you only have a few days left and you care for this girl-  - What's the harm in telling her?
quinn		There's a lot of harm in telling her.
louis		If this is real and you really care for this girl, you have to tell her. It's only fair to her.
quinn		She has a best friend who is very guarded of me...It's odd she eluded to the same thing. You know the whole "I'm hiding something, and I need to come out into the open" thing.
louis		Sounds to me like she is right.
quinn		Well I better do this now then.
louis		Yeah you don't want to lose your nerve.
quinn		Can you let yourself out?
louis		Of course.  Quinn slowly opens the door and walks out. The door creeps shut behind him.  Louis smiles to himself, feeling satisfaction. His face looks evil, almost demonic.
anna		What the hell?
quinn		I need to see Zoey.
anna		What about tomorrow? Or never is good.
quinn		I need to talk to you, it's important.
anna		Jesus Christ!
quinn		I need to tell you everything. Anna is so right.
zoey		What are you talking about? Anna is right?
quinn		I've not been honest with you about what I do...or who I am.
zoey		OK?
quinn		I need to come clean. I want you to trust me. I want your friends to trust me.
zoey		 OK Quinn, just spit it out.
quinn		OK  I want to spend that time with you.
zoey		Oh honey...
quinn		Zoey? I...
zoey		Shhh. You need me more than ever.
dad		You're not even helping me!
mom		I don't even know what you want!
dad		I can't run my congregation with this sickness! MOM The sickness is in your head.
dad		You're too busy running around doing whatever you feel like. I'm going to fall apart and it's all on you.
quinn		Last night?
zoey		Yes?
quinn		Did you?
zoey		Enjoy myself? Of course.
quinn		Based on how you are acting this morning I have my doubts. That's not what I meant though. You woke up screaming.
zoey		It was nothing.
quinn		I understand if you don't want to talk about it. I'm just concerned.
zoey		It's not a big deal. It was...a...well wouldn't call it a nightmare...repressed memory. Hell, it's not repressed...I think of it all the time.
quinn		What is it?
zoey		You don't want to hear about it.
quinn		Please?
zoey		My father, I mentioned him before, was a Baptist minister. He always said he had this "sickness". He begged my mom for help, it was more important though for her to having shopping and dinner dates with her girlfriends. Anna, my friend that "loves you", has been in my life since I was tiny. She used to come over all the time. My Dad adored her. When I was around twelve I found something in the closet...tapes. My Dad and Anna from the time she was like seven...He...  I showed my Mom, and Dad...well he got out of prison when I was seventeen. I don't see him anymore. His church, even though they knew he had a problem disowned him. He wouldn't have done that to Anna if my mom would have supported him, got him help.
quinn		Who do you think is to blame?
zoey		He tried to get help Quinn, he reached out to my Mom. I should have protected Anna too...I mean-
quinn		-None of this was your fault.
zoey		I have to protect people. This was out of my control, you Quinn...What's going on with you...I have control of that.
quinn		I love being with you.
zoey		Me too.
quinn		I can't renege on my responsibilities with Louis though. Zoey sits up.
zoey		You're not actually going to fight your friend to the death are you?
quinn		I know you don't understand this. We just need to make the most of our time.
zoey		Quinn, in 2 days things are going to be normal. This is just a delusion.
quinn		I know you don't understand. I just need to go see Louis today.
zoey		I understand that.
zoey		What is it?
zoey		What was wrong?
quinn		My neighbor Ryan Blood...looks like he's spying on me.
zoey		What are you talking about?
quinn		I need to go see Louis.
louis		 I thought him admitting his true self would break them up-
ryan blood		-Instead he is still hot and heavy with her.  He even did the "bipty boom" last night.
louis		The fight is pointless.
ryan blood		It's not pointless. The game has just changed is all.  Honestly though that's an afterthought at this point-
louis		So what's the next move?
ryan blood		 Well when he does become engaged...
anna		What are you doing?
zoey		I haven't heard from Quinn since he wigged out today.
anna		Well honestly maybe that's a good thing.
zoey		He needs me.
anna		He doesn't need you! Not everyone needs you!
zoey		 This isn't about me and you-
anna		-This is about me and you! You think you can make up for what happened. The fact you didn't notice, couldn't save me in time. You were a child! I was a child! You couldn't have saved your father either! Your mother couldn't have, no one could have! He was a fucking pedophile!
jack		Just show her the fucking file.
zoey		 What fucking file?
quinn		We have a problem.
louis		You're right. We do.
louis		I thought coming here would give us some privacy from Quinn.
ryan blood		I think it worked out perfectly.
zoey		So is the file folder for dramatic effect?
jack		No it was to keep everything organized...  ...and for dramatic effect.
zoey		Quinn?
quinn		Ryan Blood!
zoey		You mentioned that earlier. What is going on?
quinn		He's with Louis. They're planning to kill me.
zoey		I thought that was the whole plan.
quinn		No it's...this isn't like Louis. I think he is trying to cheat his way to a win.
zoey		Why don't you come over here.
quinn		I can't!
zoey		Come on Quinn get a grip. Just calm down and come over here.
quinn		You're right.
zoey		OK so just come on over and we'll talk.
quinn		No I mean you're right. I need to get control of myself. I have a destiny. I need to figure out my next move.
zoey		Quinn? No wait-
jack		What is it?
zoey		I don't know. He's losing it.
jack		You need to look at this.
zoey		So what is all this?
jack		Quinn Wilson and Louis Marks were orphans.
zoey		You're not telling me anything I didn't already know.
anna		That makes it worse. You're going to continue this now that you know for a fact that he is nuts?
zoey		I'm too far into this now. I don't have a choice.
jack		Why don't you let us save you? Please Zoey.
zoey		Let me be guys.
jack		 Ehhh...what? You better be a hot bear of a man.
zoey		What's this?
jack		Looks like a room list from the psych hospital.
zoey		I gathered that. Under Quinn's room...
jack		Quinn and his roommate is listed.
zoey		Quinn's roommate was Ryan Blood?
jack		Yeah...looks that way.
zoey		Ah fuck.
ryan blood		We need to talk.
louis		About? RYAN BLOOD Strategy.
louis		Strategy?
ryan blood		Yes. I have a method-
louis		-I have to hear this.
ryan blood		A 12 point system-
louis		 - Like 12 steps?
ryan blood		Exactly. It's a sure fire plan to throw Quinn off of his game
louis		Oh I am so all ears.
ryan blood		Well the first thing you need is a battle cry.
louis		Excuse me? A battle cry?
ryan blood		Yes a battle cry. Every great warrior has one.
louis		And a battle cry is going to give me the advantage in battle?
ryan blood		Of course it will. Why don't you try one out?
louis		What?
ryan blood		Yeah, try one out right now. It's liberating.
louis		I'd rather not.
ryan blood		Come on.
louis		 Right here?
ryan blood		Here I'll go first-
louis		That was...interesting.
ryan blood		See?  Your turn.
louis		So right now?
ryan blood		Of course.
quinn		We need to talk.
louis		 Excuse me for a second.
quinn		I know that guy and I don't trust him.
louis		I don't trust you anymore.
quinn		Your new friend is dangerous.
louis		So is yours.
quinn		Leave her out of this.
louis		You fighting tomorrow morning Quinn?
quinn		It's over. This whole thing is nuts. I'm walking away.
louis		Let me walk away from you first then.
zoey		Excuse me?
jake		 Yes.
zoey		I'm looking for Mrs. Rhodes. I believe the people here referred to her as "mother".
jake		 People look for a lot of things.
zoey		I'm sure they do.  You guys shutting down?
jake		 We are ceasing operations.
zoey		Is there something wrong with you?
zoey		What? I don't know what that means.
zoey		Um...no...listen do you know Quinn Wilson and Louis Marks? They grew up here.
zoey		What?
zoey		Um...no.
zoey		What a fucking nut house!
zoey		What!
jake		 I know the young boys you speak of.
zoey		 And?
jake		 I was here when Quinn got sent to the mental hospital. It was like the other one set it up.
zoey		Wait Louis? You think Louis made Quinn appear crazy?
jake		 They both believed the same thing. Louis was just smart enough to hide it.
zoey		There is more to it than that.
jake		 I don't understand
zoey		Listen "Robot Boy", where did this whole belief come from? This isn't something two kids come up with on their own.
jake		 Yes I believe a seed was planted.
zoey		Exactly. I heard there was an employee that got fired for sharing Mormon mythology with the boys.
jake		 No. Off base. He's not the right one.
jack		You might be right sweetheart. The employee I was telling you about earlier was instrumental in getting Appleridge Orphanage shut down.
zoey		How?
jack		Mrs. Rhodes was pretty well known in Huntington. I think she felt this guy was getting in the way of her master plan. Finally, nearly 20 years later, he convinced the state what was really going on there.
zoey		Well...elaborate.
jack		That girl you talked to was "pants crapping nuts". She actually makes your boyfriend look sane. I guess she believes that Lucifer came to her in a vision-
zoey		-How is that different than a dream? Just saying-
jack		-I don't know. I think you have to be awake for a vision.  Will you please pay attention? Anyway he, meaning Lucifer, gave her this jazz about...well you know the story. Two angels, fighting to the death...blah...blah...Anyway he told her she needed to look after Louis and get Quinn out of there. I guess trying to stack the odds in Louis' favor.
zoey		So she had Quinn committed? JACK To the same hospital where her nephew was a patient. All on the dark lord's orders I guess.
zoey		Fucking Ryan Blood!
jack		Your friends are fucking whack.
zoey		Thanks Jack.
jack		So what are you going to do?
zoey		I'm going to stop an Apocalyptic battle.
jack		Goddamn Zoey!
anna		So where is she at now?
jack		I got a text about thirty minutes ago. I'm pretty sure she is going to head to Quinn's apartment.
anna		Jack... JACK What?
anna		Her Christ Complex is going to get her killed.
jack		Trust me I know Anna.  I know...
ryan blood		Good afternoon boys and girls! I need your assistance.
quinn		How do people keep ending up in my room?
zoey		 You need to learn to lock up.
quinn		I'm not fighting Louis.
zoey		Why the change of heart?
quinn		I think you might be right. I don't think it's necessary. I think the world will keep turning one way or another. I'm not dependant on that.  I'm not a savior.
zoey		Do you really believe? You know?
quinn		Yes. I do believe it. I know it actually. Since I have been with you, I've doubted what I know to be fact though. Then it hit me, it really doesn't matter.
zoey		I'll help you Quinn. I don't want to do it for myself... 
quinn		You're not selfish Zoey.
zoey		I care about you Quinn. That's sincerely my reason for wanting to do this. That's a first for me you know?
quinn		I know...
quinn		 Let her go!
ryan blood		 Let me pretty the girl up a bit
louis		Hold on sunshine!
jack		Mother fucker!
quinn		Where's Zoey?
jack		Fuck you mother fucker! I'm going to call the fucking fuzz once you untie me! Fucking nut bag, ball sac-
quinn		 I...will...come...rescue...you
jack		Ass fuck salad-
quinn		That actually felt kind of good.
zoey		I'm not doing it anymore. You will not have redemption from me.
dad		 Zoey...
zoey		Take ownership of what you did. Don't rely on me to save you. I need to start saving myself.
louis		What do you think Zoey? I'm a ninja!
zoey		 You're fucking crazy!
louis		That's not nice! I think I look good.
zoey		I think you're a fucking nut bag.
louis		This is going to be fun. You'll see.
zoey		Mrs Rhodes? Does that name ring a bell?
ryan blood		My aunt?
louis		Yeah...yeah...she played a part in the game. Tell us something we don't know. You're such a sexy Nancy Drew right now.
zoey		Go fuck yourself.
louis		Or a foul mouthed Velma. That gets me so hard. Does that get you hard Ryan?
ryan blood		Can we go back to my aunt please?
zoey		Mrs. Rhodes? What about her? Other than she fucked you guys up. She taught you, Louis how to play it straight. Then she has you fuck Quinn over. RYAN BLOOD She didn't fuck Quinn over. She just helped him out.
zoey		Yeah by getting him in contact with you.
ryan blood		She knew one day it was all going to catch up with her. She trained me to get into the game. She told me it was my destiny.
zoey		Is that why she placed you in that hospital?
ryan blood		She was my caretaker. She told me she was sending me someone. Someone I would have to guide on to the right path.
zoey		Guys I have let my parents fuck me up. There comes a time though where you have to go out on your own. Take responsibility for your own life.
ryan blood		There is a much bigger purpose. You'll see.
zoey		This whole thing was to carry out some delusional woman's master plan. She doesn't even remember who she is at this point. I went to see her...she wanted me to take off my shirt.
louis		Will you shut up?!? You are ruining my climatic fight.
quinn		Let her go!
ryan blood		Not yet...
quinn		 Is this the game you want to play?
louis		I'm not going to lose this time.
zoey		 I thought you didn't believe this shit anymore.
quinn		There's more going on than you realize Zoey.
zoey		This is fucked. Quinn you're not 5000 years old. You were born in an orphanage. None of this makes sense.
louis		Lady, it would look weird if we roamed the earth for 5000 years without facing a mortal death! We keep getting reborn, sometimes we even switch physical form. Thanks for coming to the game late missy!
zoey		That makes total fucking sense. Color me stupid!
quinn		 You don't get it do you. LOUIS What?!?
quinn		If you win...you're not becoming the antichrist.
louis		What are you talking about??
quinn		It's   Ryan...it's always been Ryan.
louis		 What is he talking about?
ryan blood		He's pitting us against each other.
quinn		I'm going to be honest with you Louis. I've always been honest.
louis		Yeah sometimes to a fault.
quinn		We have always played this game as honest as we could. We never did anything to undermine the other. Despite what you represent, you have moral code.  You are not acting with in that code today.
louis		I'm tired of losing...
quinn		You're losing right now. Your actions, you can't win like this. Not acting this way.
louis		I'm tired of you. I'm going to end it!
louis		It's the endgame.
zoey		What the fuck!
quinn		Zoey go home. We need to finish this.
zoey		No you don't. Guys what are you doing?
louis		Go home girl!
zoey		Are you being serious?
quinn		I will always love you. You have to go though.
zoey		If you don't walk away from this field right now, you will lose me. I will not be in your corner. I will call for help. They will stop you.
quinn		Go...
zoey		Quinn...last chance. Zoey walks over to Ryan's body. She searches till she finds her cell phone in his front pocket.
quinn		Goodbye.
zoey		 Wow...yeah goodbye.
zoey		 Goodbye boys...
zoey		For years we have thought absence of the impossible indicated that we were exercising free thought. In my experience ladies and gentleman, that's not the case.  Believing in hope my friends, opening yourself up to accepting there might be more than the world around you. That's truly being a free thinker.
jennifer		Hey Grandma.
zoey		Hey...
jennifer		You look solemn. ZOEY Just sitting here...thinking...
jennifer		What are you thinking about?
zoey		I've had a great life. A wonderful husband, children, grandchildren...  ...great grandchildren...I spent so much of my youth being angry. I wish I could relive my life now, knowing what I know.
jennifer		You do have a lot of wisdom.
zoey		I've tried to pass it on to you.
jennifer		You've taught me a lot.
zoey		Just remember, you can believe what you want to believe Jennifer. Live by what ever moral code you want to live by. Just make sure it's yours. Don't let it stem from anger or past tragedies.  Let it come from your heart.
jennifer		My new boyfriend. The one I wanted you to meet.
boyfriend		 Nice to meet to ma'am.
zoey		 Likewise.
jennifer		We better get going. We're going to grab something to eat.
zoey		 I didn't catch your name.
boyfriend		I'm so sorry. I'm being rude.
jennifer		 He can be like that.
boyfriend		I'm Louis.
jennifer		 You OK?
zoey		Yeah I'm fine.  Enjoy dinner.
jennifer		See you later on.
boyfriend		 Nice to meet you.
zoey		 Likewise.
****Dialogues from script :Chronicle.txt****

sandra detmer		Who's the audience?
sandra detmer		Hello world. Do I look awful?
sandra detmer		I've been looking a little better, yeah?
sandra detmer		It's a nice camera.
matt		I got you egg salad.
matt		So...Should I ask about the camera, or-
matt		You're filming everything.
matt		He gets violent or whatever-
matt		Evidence. But you're not with him right now, but you're filming this.
matt		Context.   Andrew, you are...a weird dude.
matt		He's this philosopher I'm reading.
matt		He's just like- his whole thing is about being positive and like, taking up for yourself. You should read him, maybe, it might make you feel- you know, improve your outlook.
matt		I'm gonna blaze a little first, yeah?
girl		Vote "Kaz!"
girl		Every vote counts.
wayne		Hey, how do I look?  Like this? Ooh, that's good.   Like this? That's sexy, right?
andrew		Bryce, gimme my camera back-
wayne		You got me, let's go. Wayne turns and knocks everything out of Andrew's locker. Bryce starts to walk away with the camera.
cheerleader		Hi.
andrew		Hey-
cheerleader		Could you not videotape us, please? It's really fucking creepy.
andrew		I wasn't, videotaping you, so much as I was just-
cheerleader		Don't videotape us, okay, or we'll call security. We see you watching us, we're not stupid, and it's sketchy, so back off.
andrew		...okay.
cheerleader		Is it on right now?
andrew		Yes.
cheerleader		Turn it off.
matt		There's a party tonight.    A barn party at Haven Hills.
matt		It's abandoned, yeah. That's why it's a good place for a party. Two kegs.
matt		You wanna go? I don't wanna go alone.
matt		When was the last time you went to a party?
matt		You're a senior.     Just come, you'll have fun. ANDREW  I'll think about it.
matt		Okay, right. Andrew, can I give you like, a pro tip?
andrew		Yeah?
matt		Keep the camera at home.    It's weird.
andrew		It has a purpose-
matt		I'm trying to be a good cousin, here. This is me being your friend, yeah? Okay?
howard		Hey don't film me nigga, don't film me.
costly		Hey fuck off, you better run to your house, bitch. Run to your house and lock the door.
howard		The fuck, fuck you faggot- Howard quickly starts crossing the street, and Andrew turns and runs back towards his house.
andrew		I'm uploading what I shot today...you have to keep a back-up, you know.
matt		It's here, calm down.    Listen.
matt		Hey dude, don't follow me around all night.
matt		Don't follow me around all night, okay?
matt		Talk to people?   Have a beer, I don't know.
montaged		FOOTAGE...
casey		Hey, what are you filming for?
casey		What?   I'm filming for my blog!
casey		I have a video blog!   Why are you filming?
austin		Hey, were you filming my girlfriend? Yes or no, were you filming my girlfriend?
austin		 Okay, good, because I don't wanna have to beat your ass.
austin		Don't talk back to me. Don't get smart, okay, I'm being nice here. I'm being nice to you.  Say okay.
austin		Cause I know you were filming my girlfriend dancing. I should break your fucking nose, you know that? You know that, I should beat your ass right now, but I'm trying to be nice. Fuck you.
steve		I'm Steve Kazinsky-
steve		...yeah?
steve		Haha, yes, that is true. Listen, come on, bring the camera.
steve		Come on.
steve		Dude, come on, we found something.
steve		Is there a light on that?   On your camera?
steve		Awesome.
steve		Me and your cousin were blazing a little.
steve		A bunch of people were out here, but I think they've all gone back, now, cause we're like, obsessed with the thing.
steve		Andrew Detmer, that's right.   I remember you from homeroom, Freshman year.
steve		Yeah, video footage of me luring you into the woods for gay sex- wait, hey- HEY, MATT, IS THIS IT?
steve		There we go. There it is.
matt		They all left.
steve		Is it still making the sound?
matt		Yeah.   Did you tell Andrew?
steve		Oh, Andrew, it's making a sound-
matt		Here, listen.
steve		You've got to get really close to hear it.
matt		We're not going to push you, we just wanna get it on tape.
steve		We didn't dig the hole, man. MATT Is the sound on the camera?
steve		Do you guys wanna go in and have a look, or what-
steve		Hold your nose.
matt		Steve, come on, we don't know if it's stable in there- It's probably just the wind, we should-
steve		Yeah, really far. It's not a cave, it's like a tunnel- do you hear how loud that's getting?
steve		Come on, man. Come on.
steve		Huh. I dunno. I don't believe in ghosts.
matt		-shouldn't have come in here.
matt		At first I thought this was a solutional cave, but now...I dunno, it's like a lava tube, or something.
matt		Look at the walls. Look at how smooth they are. It's just straight shot down, I mean, we must've already gone forty or fifty feet- ANDREW  Don't talk about it, you're making me nervous.
matt		You ever hear of Plato's allegory of the cave?
matt		Nevermind.
matt		Is that, is that showing up on the camera?
matt		-changes color, see? It must be reacting to the heat, some kind of exothermic reaction-
steve		Make it change again!    This is awesome!
black screen.		HOLD ON BLACK.
matt		Ready?
matt		Okay, ball test.   Take one.
steve		I'm sorry, oh shit, I'm sorry-
matt		WE ARRREEE THE CHAAAMPIONS-
andrew		Ah, shit.
matt		Is-
steve		`In the- penis- the penis-
matt		I thought I heard my dad...UGHHH WHY ME AGAAAAIN!?
andrew		The trick is to pretend like it's on a plate. You get it on the plate and then you wrap the plate around it, and you can move it however you want.
steve		Mhm.
matt		I've been pretending I was like, holding it in a fist, like a floating hand.
andrew		Yeah?   Plate's easier for me.
steve		Guys, check it out.
matt		That's what I'm doing, it's just, it's hard. You're better at this than me, you do it.
andrew		 Really? Andrew points at the lego set, and it flies together.
matt		 Dude, holy shit!
steve		Guys, listen, listen.   Samantha.
steve		What would you suggest, as like, a course of action for me, here?
matt		Why are you asking US for advice on girls?
steve		-new camera's working out for you, that's good. CUT.
steve		You don't feel like it's a little weird? Like it puts a barrier between you and everything?
steve		Okay.   I respect that.
steve		So how do you pay for your shit?
steve		What about your mom.
steve		I've actually been having some problems with my parents, too.
steve		Nothing like yours, though.   Not- Never mind.
steve		Yeah. I know. I'm actually, yeah, I'm sure my mom is cheating on my dad.
steve		I just, you know, I saw some stuff. It's weird, you don't think about your parents as like...people, or whatever. I don't know.
steve		Good.
matt		See last night, alone, I got my whole bed off the ground. No nosebleed.
steve		Yeah, I was doing weights, too.
matt		Weights, like-
steve		Free-weights, a barbell. I got up to two hundred pounds before I bled.
matt		So it's, yeah, this is my theory- it's like a vagina. Like it's elastic, but if you stretch it too far too quick it'll tear-
matt		And that's why we're getting better. We're loosening up.
steve		No, I like braingina.   Braingina is the shiiiiit.
steve		If anyone criticizes you, just call them a hater. It's like calling someone a racist, they'll just drop whatever they're complaining about and be like "I'M NOT A HATER." Nobody wants to be a hater.
matt		I'm gonna get the gum right out of his mouth- watch this.
steve		 GUYS, WHY ARE WE RUNNING!? We don't need to run, we don't need to run!
matt		That was a good one, you got that one far.
matt		What?  Sure, yeah. I mean, I didn't, always-
matt		Don't get mad, I mean, I like you now, I like you a lot. You're just, you're not super easy to talk to. You've got a lot of-
matt		See, that's what I'm saying. You're hostile, man.
matt		Yeah.
matt		 My braingina is having like a...face period. STEVE Yeah, you got some from your ears, too. You've gotta start working it out more, Matt.
matt		Yeah man, in between my yoga.
matt		Ha.
matt		That's like, at least twice as much blood as I usually see on a taco bell wrapper.
steve		Guys, guys. Look.
matt		-sfucking insane, we just changed her life. We did-
steve		That was fucking great. I mean, this just gives me so many ideas, already, stuff we could do-
matt		Oh come on, what is this?
steve		He's like right on your bumper, too.
matt		Can you fucking believe this guy?
steve		He's just some asshole redneck, look at him. He's fucking with us.
matt		I don't know what to do, what should I-
matt		Andrew, just stop, just stop doing things.
matt		Stop, just stop.
redneck asshole		-what happened, cause...I don't know....my truck, my truck...
matt		Yes, just past White Crescent bridge. Down by the- yes-
matt		 Yeah, just come- no, I don't know. I don't know, maybe internal bleeding, or-
local officer		-looks like he'll be okay. Lucky you guys were here. Is that on? You can go ahead and turn that off. The camera shuts off.
matt		You don't see how we can be angry? You put a man in the hospital for fucksakes. You put a man in the hospital, you hurt somebody-
matt		Which part of that do you mean, do you mean he was being an asshole, or was it an accident? Was it an accident, Andrew, cause you're the strongest. Listen, with this, we can't fuck around, ever.
matt		NOT LIKE THAT, ANDREW. That's- you can't use it on people, or hurt people like- Steve, help me out.
matt		We need rules, okay. Rule #1, you can't use it on living things. Rule #2, you can't use it when you're angry-
matt		I'm not mad.
matt		...Power corrupts, is all I'm saying, man.
andrew		What does that even mean?
matt		I just mean that we have to think about things more now, okay? We can't just DO things, we have to think first.
andrew		...I understand.
matt		It's just- nah, nevermind, we're here.
matt		Steve?   Where are you?
steve		Just try it, it's easy.
steve		You throw yourself at the ground. You just fall, and catch yourself, and then it's easy, I swear. Don't try to jump or you'll flip yourself. CUT.
matt		Yeah.    I'm done for now.
andrew		Whoaaaamygod...whoaaa...
matt		HOLY SHIT DUDE! HOLY SHIT, DUDE, HOLY SHIT! HOLY...SHIT DUDE, HOLY SH-
matt		 What? The wind!
matt		It's about aerodynamics! If I put a barrier just in front of me, I can go way faster, cause it cuts wind resistance!
matt		Yeah!   Definitely!
steve		WOO! HOLY FUCKING FUCK! I COULDA DIED, MAN! I ALMOST FUCKING DIED!
andrew		 Y- yeah-
steve		FUCKIN' AMAZING!
matt		What happened, are you-
steve		Ahhhhh!
matt		 What the hell, what the hell-
steve		This is what people have wanted forever, since like caveman times! Do you understand, I mean do you- jesus christ, I can't even- Everything is fucking great! I CAN FLY! Matt, listen, just say it!
matt		...I can fly.
steve		Shout it out man!
matt		I CAN FLY.  I CAN FLY!
steve		FUCK.   YES.
hold on black		FOR A MOMENT.
matt		Yo Andrew, Andrew, gimme a beat.
matt		That's cold, you're so cold! MY OWN COUSIN! DJ Steve, dial me up- Steve immediately starts beatboxing.
matt		But how does she not notice?
steve		Well, I mean, she notices that it's gotten better, definitely. You just have to be subtle.
steve		Pfff, technicalities. MATT Man, I haven't had sex since like...a year.
steve		Ugh, man, you guys...how are you so cool?
matt		Liquid nitrogen.
steve		Yeah.
matt		Today was like...the best day of my life. Like I was thinking and I can't think of any day I liked better than today.
steve		Unanimous.     Yes.
matt		Okay...good.
steve		Well that answers that.
matt		Nah man, we were all- I mean, I was, definitely, yeah.
police officer		Hey, you kids can't be here, okay? You gotta move on out.
matt		What?
police officer		The ground is unstable, we're cordoning the whole place off.
andrew		Well, uh, it would appear that a Virgin Mary has appeared in the maple syrup on a young local man's pancake.
matt		In a second it will, wait...
matt		Well, when I was really little, I wanted to be police officer.
andrew		Fuck you, pig.
matt		No, I just really got into on the idea of altruism, you know?
andrew		What's that mean?
matt		Like making things better for everyone.
andrew		So what, you wanna do like, a charity? That's lame.
andrew		I dunno.
matt		I mean, I'm not gonna- it doesn't matter, you know. I'm never gonna get out of this piece of shit town. You know, we're all just little pieces. One person can't really make a difference. I used to think- I don't know. I don't know.
steve		AAH!   DOUCHEBAG!
steve		I'm not GOOD at everything, I just do my best at everything. That's what it's about. I mean you talk about philosophy and shit all the time, but you never really do anything. Have you even applied to colleges yet?
matt		I'll get to it-
steve		You could use some of that, man, I'm just saying.
steve		You lack initiative.
matt		You lack...a dick.
matt		Shit man, I got my mom's birthday, I gotta go.
andrew		Say hi for me.
steve		Later dude.
steve		Ah, dude, it's rush hour.
andrew		So?
steve		Hell yeah, dude.
steve		I wish I could bring Samantha up here. She'd love this.
steve		Nah, no way. She'd freak out.
steve		It'll be fine, dude.    You'll figure it out.
steve		Hey, I wanted to ask you, winter break's coming up...You wanna do the talent show with me? Get you out there, you know, meet some new people.
steve		Yes you do, you have a talent, you have a talent.
sandra detmer		You look handsome.
sandra detmer		I'm glad you are spending so much time with your friends.
andrew		I don't know what you mean-
andrew		Matt.
andrew		...I'm sorry, I'll try to-
matt		Just amazing dude-
matt		Are you fucking kidding, I've never seen a reaction like that in the auditorium, you guys- it was fucking like- it shook the building. You guys are rockstars.
matt		Ah, see, here's the first stage of your downfall, hubris.
matt		What?
matt		Seriously?
matt		 I'm sorry, I'm sorry-
samantha		AAAH ANDREW!
matt		Hi Samantha!
samantha		Everybody's freaking out, you've gotta come in here-
monica		Just fucking amazing. Magic is so hot. Do you know, me and my mom, in Vegas, went to a magic show, but they didn't have anything like that.
monica		Do you not remember me, at all?
monica		We took American History together.
monica		Yeah!   Hiiii!
some guy		And now, you get a special treat, I'm gonna film myself taking a piss.
steve		 Matt, you have the camera yeah? You have the camera, cause, don't let him forget the camera, okay? That's Andrew's camera.
stoner		Hey Matt, wanna blaze?
stoner		Andrew? He's upstairs in the bedroom hooking up with that, whatshername, hair girl.
matt		Hey Andrew, hope you're seeing this. Congratulations, sir. I'm drunk, sorry. I was really worried about you, like, before everything, but I do feel like...  But listen when did I become the one who's...who's out alone filming myself, with the camera-
casey		Hey Matt.
casey		Stockings are why I love Christmas. You wanna get outta here? This place is too loud for me.
matt		Yeah, I- YES- yeah, just gotta drop off the cam-  Matt fumbles with the camera, turning it off.  BLACK SCREEN. HOLD ON BLACK.
andrew		What'd you...You- what'd you see?
andrew		I didn't spend any of your money, RICHARD-
andrew		School doesn't cost any money, I go to public school you idiot-
andrew		 You asshole, you fucking crazy asshole-
steve		We have to get down from here right now, Andrew! This isn't safe!
steve		Hung over, dude! You should be too! Let's just-
steve		What the fuck are you doing? ANDREW  I'm filming the storm, no one's ever filmed a storm like this up close bef-
steve		No, we're getting the fuck down, now. This is fucking crazy, Andrew- what- what happened to your face?
steve		Your dad fucking beat the shit out you! Come on, we'll go to the cops, let's get out of here. He can't do that Andrew.  This is not the way you handle it, we'll go together, let's go, he can't do that-
steve		I don't fucking care!?    You're my best friend, idiot!
andrew		...What?
steve		I hang out with you and Matt practically every fucking day! You think I talk to anyone else about my parents, or my feelings on shit, are you that fucking insecure?
andrew		 I'm an idiot. I'm sorry Steve, oh god, I'm sorry-
steve		Dude, it's okay.     You just need help, okay?
andrew		Yeah, yes, I don't know what I'm doing-
steve		It'll be fine. But we've- ...Do you hear that? I hear...singing.
digital		DISTORTION TO BLACK.
matt		No you haven't. Why aren't you returning my calls. Turn off the camera.
matt		 You can look that up online, you know, they keep track of it. I looked it up. Zero. And they find him out in a field, why would Steve go out in the middle of a field during a lightning storm?
matt		What?
matt		No, no, you do know, you do know, I think you do know.
matt		What happened, Andrew. Just stop, stop lying to me, and tell me-
matt		I don't believe you, okay! I don't believe you, I want you to- put the fucking camera down.
matt		Because I want to talk to you. Put it down- put it down, Andrew, please- put it down, turn it off, put the fucking-
andrew		 -wanted to show you what I was talking about.
wayne		What, you got a probl-
fernandez		Could you put the camera away?
fernandez		I understand that things have been very hard for you recently, Andrew, but the camera kind of- it alienates a little, you know?
fernandez		 There's concern for your grades, Andrew. And as far as I know you've yet to apply to any colleges, so-
fernandez		Well, yes, but I still think it's worth thinking about. There are three different community colleges locally that offer great programs for-
fernandez		 Andrew?
sandra detmer		Richard is that you? Richard, you have to let me have my medicine, I can't...Andrew? Who is that? Look, please come in here, I need help to turn over. It hurts, please, Andrew, you have to tell your father...tell your father to get my medicine...
andrew		I've been doing a lot of reading, like you know, online, about evolution, and the way it works, and you know, natural selection. The uh...  I mean, what I'm trying to say is, a lion doesn't feel guilty when it kills a gazelle. You don't feel guilty when you squash a fly, you know- I think that means something. I think it really means something.  CUT.  Andrew's back out with the car. He lifts it again, then makes a quick "squeezing" motion. As he does this, the car violently compresses down to the size of a basketball. Andrew flings the ball of metal into a scrap pile, which collapses loudly.  Andrew falls down onto his butt, a little exhausted, but as he gets up he is abruptly attacked by a guard dog, which bites him twice before he's able to fling it off.  The dog recovers, and rushes Andrew, who raises a hand, blasting the dog across the yard, killing it instantly.  Andrew turns and looks at the camera, and it turns off.
matt		I told you how the interviews went.
matt		UCONN not so good, Columbia was good, University of Miami was really good, Arizona State was okay.
matt		Haha, no, I told you they wouldn't.
matt		Nope. Nobody. I flew myself.      I needed the exercise.
matt		I am so sick of being filmed, you have no idea, Casey-
matt		When do your parents get back from Spain?
casey		A week. MATT  Okay, if you don't film me for one week-
matt		One week, I'll show you my new trick. I guarantee you will shit bricks. Yeah?
casey		...Ughhhh.
matt		I'm ready!
matt		Let's do it! Woo!
matt		COME ON!   BRING IT ON!
matt		Ughhhh camera...I had that dream again.
matt		It's like I'm...I'm not me, I'm something else. And I'm out in this...out in space. And stars are all around me, and I'm zooming past them; everything is really like three-D, I can see the shape of the stars. I'm looking for somewhere to sleep, or something, and I see earth, and I go down to earth. And then...I don't know, just the main part is that I'm out and there are the stars and they just look like millions of little points of light...And Steve is there.
matt		Yeah but he feels like he's not part of it. Like he's there separately, inside my head. Andrew is there too. I don't know. I'm worried about Andrew.  Why don't you put the camera away?
matt		Oh I think you know. I think you know what's going down.
matt		You arrrrreeee...C'mere.  Matt advances on Casey, and the camera falls off to the side of the bed. We can hear her giggling, which is abruptly muffled by kissing.  DIGITAL DISTORTION TO BLACK.
matt		You haven't been returning my calls, so I thought I'd just...you know, ambush.
matt		I just- I've been getting, you know, bad vibes or whatever.
matt		Dude, don't be like that, okay-
matt		That doesn't- that actually sounds like the opposite of fine. Andrew, come on, let's get out of here, your room's a mess, it smells like a Denny's bathroom in here.
matt		You're my cousin. You're my friend- it's my responsibility to take care of you.
matt		...Are you going to break the rules?  We're too strong now, Andrew. We're too strong for that. If you did that, you know I'd have to-
matt		...Andrew-
pharmacist		Hello, how can I help you.
pharmacist		Um, yes, hold on. That's Imuran, Baclofen, Glatiramer and Vicodin.
pharmacist		Okay, and the copay on that is...Seven hundred and fifteen dollars, eighty three cents.
howard		You are about to get fucking stomped, you know that right? You hear me son? Come to my house, it's late, I don't see any fucking police officers or some shit, I don't know what you you think you're doing throwing shit at my house-
costly		No, wait, what the fuck. What the fuck are you dressed up like that for. Are you high?
howard		Lil' Andrew's straight up tripping right now, I don't even know, I'ma give your ass a wake up call-
costly		-no, no-
police detective		I understand, Mr. Detmer.
police detective		Yeah I- I'll be outside the door, yeah?
everyone		-appy birthday to you!
casey		Matt-
matt		Do you hear that, how can you not hear that?
casey		Matt, what hap-
matt		The singing, how can you not hear that!? Something's wrong, okay, something's wrong with Andrew, or-
casey		Matt, please, okay, you're scaring me, are you okay-
matt		No, something's wrong, something's wrong.
casey		Mom, Matt is-
casey's mom		Come in here right now.   Come in here right now.
matt		I see, I know, I have to go, okay-
matt		Give me your keys.
matt		I have to go to the city.
matt		I can't fly if there are all these helicopters in the air, I just have to drive there, or, listen, I have to figure this out, Andrew's in trouble. This is my fault.  CASEY  Matt please! MATT PLEASE, PLEASE DON'T GO, I'M AFRAID! MATT I'M SCARED, PLEASE!
matt		This is all my fault.
casey		No! No it isn't!   It isn't your fault!
matt		Where are you, man?
police officer		Listen, you can't be here, I need you to turn this car around right now and-
casey		What's...What is...What's...Matt please, please-
andrew		 WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE!? The windshield is TORN OUT, and seconds later MATT IS RIPPED OUT OF THE CAR AS THOUGH YANKED BY A GIANT HOOK, taking his seatbelt with him. CASEY No NO NO
andrew		 No one's gonna help me...No one's gonna help me now...
andrew		 What type of camera is that?
sissy		What's happening what's happening-
field reporter		Are we...Okay, yeah, gimme- two, one- We're live on the scene on Parson Boulevard just south of the center of downtown, and- There's a rushing, screeching sound from around the corner. The camera jerks, and moves towards the corner, the cameraman man running to see what the sound is.
matt		Please...Help me. Help me, HELP ME, please...I'm sorry! I'm so sorry, I tried- help me, help me, I'm dying, I'm dying. Stars- I see stars, somebody- It hurts, please. I'm- the blood...I tried...
matt		Would you please...turn off the fucking cameras. CUT TO BLACK.
hold on black		FOR A MOMENT.
small title: (2		YEARS LATER)
reporters		-expected to burst at any moment- City officials blame the malfunctions on the terrorist bombing that occurred at the dam's control center last March.- Botched evacuation has left thousands of the Kyo-lee Valley's residents trapped, with only one major roadway leading in or out. A roadway that has not been repaired in over ten years- Again, the scale here is just unprecedented. Our hearts are with people of Kyo-Lee tonight.
****Dialogues from script :Chronicles_of_Narnia__The_Lion.txt****

bombing london		 Random German Ejaculations  MRS. PEVENSIE Edmund Get Away from there! What do you think you're doing?! Peter!
peter		 Come on! To the shelter, now!
susan		 Lucy, come on! Lucy!
edmund		Wait, dad!
peter		Come on idiot  Why do you always have to be so selfish! You only think about yourself. Why can't you ever do as you're told!
announcer		Attention, would all parents ensure that their parents have the appropriate identification papers.
edmund		If Dad were here, the war would be over, and we wouldn't have to go
peter		If dad wasn't fighting and the war was over we wouldn't have to go.
peter		I will mum
peter		Come on, we've got to stay together now. Everything's going to be okay
susan		Peter! 
edmund		I know how to get on a train
peter		Bye Mom, we'll miss you
susan		The Professor knew we were coming?
edmund		Perhaps we've been incorrectly labeled?
peter		Mrs. Macready?  MRS. MACREADY I'm afraid so. Is that it then? Haven't you brought anything else?
peter		No, ma'am. It's just us.  MRS. MACREADY Small favours.
lucy		The sheets feel scratchy
susan		Wars don't last forever, Lucy. We'll be home soon.
edmund		If home's still there.
susan		Isn't time you were in bed?
edmund		YES, Mom!
peter		ED!
susan		Gas-tro-vas-cu-lar.
peter		Is it Latin?
susan		Yes...
edmund		Is it Latin for worst game ever invented?
lucy		We could play hide-and-seek
peter		but we're already having so much fun!
lucy		Please, please, please.
peter		One...two...three...four...
edmund		 Get out! I was here first!
peter		Eight four, eighty five...
lucy		Were you hiding from me?
tumnus		Huh, um, n..n.. no, I..I... I didn't want to scare you,
lucy		if you don't mind my asking...what are you?
tumnus		Why, I'm a faun! And you must be some beardless dwarf?
lucy		I'm not a dwarf, I'm a girl! And actually I'm tallest in my class.
tumnus		But you're saying, you're a daughter of Eve?
lucy		Well, my mum's name is Helen...
tumnus		Yes, but you are, in fact, human.
lucy		Of course.
tumnus		What are you doing here?
lucy		Well, I came in through the wardrobe in the spare room, and-
tumnus		Spare Oom, is that in Narnia?
lucy		Narnia? What's that?
tumnus		My dear girl, you're in it!  Everything from the lamp post, all the way to castle Cair Paravel on the Eastern Sea, every stick and stone, every icicle, is Narnia,
lucy		This is an awfully big wardrobe
tumnus		I'm sorry, please allow me to introduce myself, my name is Tumnus
lucy		Glad to meet you, Mr. Tumnus! *extends hand* I'm Lucy Pevensie. Oh, you shake it!
tumnus		Why?
lucy		I-I don't know! People do it when they meet each other.
tumnus		Lucy Pevensie, from the shining city of War Drobe in the far land of Spare Oom, how would it be if you came and had tea with me?
lucy		Oh! Well, thank you very much! But I probably should be getting back...
tumnus		Oh, come on! It's not every day I get to make a new friend! And there's a... roaring fire! And toast and cakes! And maybe... we'll even break into the sardines.
lucy		Well, maybe for just a little while... if you have... sardines.
tumnus		By the bucket load,
tumnus		Come Along.
lucy		Can I help you with that?
tumnus		Why thank you!
tumnus		Oh... That is my father.
lucy		He had a nice face. You look just like him.
tumnus		No, were not alike at all really.
lucy		My father is fighting in the war.
tumnus		My father went away to war too... but that was a very long time ago... before this dreadful winter.
lucy		Winter isn't all bad. There's ice skating and snow ball fights. Oh! And Christmas!
tumnus		We haven't had Christmas in a hundred years here.
lucy		 No presents for a hundred years?
tumnus		But, oh, you would have loved Narnia in spring! The Dryads and the Fauns would dance all night... but we never got tired. And oh, the music! Such music. Would you... like to hear some now?
lucy		yes please
tumnus		 Now, are you familiar with the Narnia lullabies?
lucy		: No, I'm afraid I'm not
tumnus		Good, because this probably won't sound anything like one.
lucy		Oh I must go
tumnus		It's too late for that now I'm such a bad faun
lucy		No. You're the nicest faun I've ever met.
tumnus		Then I'm afraid you've had a very poor sampling.
lucy		I'm sure you're very sorry, and you'll never do it again.
tumnus		It's not something I have done, Lucy Pevensie. It's something I'm doing.
lucy		What are you doing?
tumnus		I'm kidnapping you. It's the White Witch, the one that makes it always winter, and never Christmas. She told me that I If I ever was to come across a son of Adam or a daughter of Eve, I am supposed to turn it over to her!
lucy		But I thought you were my friend
tumnus		We must move quietly the woods are full of her spies, even some of the trees are on her side
lucy		I think so.  Keep it, you need it more than I do.
lucy		I'm back, I'm back, it's alright,
edmund		Shhh, he's coming.
peter		You know, I'm not sure if you two have quite gotten the idea of this game!
lucy		but weren't you wondering where I was?
edmund		That's the point! That's why he was seeking you!
susan		Does this mean I win?
peter		I don't think Lucy wants to play anymore.
susan		The only wood in here is the back of the wardrobe.
peter		One game at a time Lu, we don't all have your imagination.
lucy		But I wasn't imagining!
susan		that's enough
edmund		Well I believe you.
lucy		You do?
edmund		Yah, didn't I tell you about the football field I found in the bathroom closet?
peter		Why don't you just stop it, you always have to make everything worse. Grow up!
edmund		Shut up! You think you're dad, but you're not! 
susan		well, that was nicely handled! 
lucy		It was really there...
peter		Susan's right. That's enough..
edmund		Lucy, Lucy. I hope you're not afraid of the dark 
edmund		Lucy? Lucy! I think I believe you now!
edmund		Lucy?
dwarf		Yah! 
white witch		What is it Ginarrbrik?
edmund		He won't let go!
dwarf		Is that how you address the Queen of Narnia?
edmund		I didn't know?
dwarf		Well, you shall know her better afterwards.
white witch		Wait! What is your name Son-of-Adam?
edmund		Edmund, your majesty.
white witch		And how was it, Edmund, that you came to enter my dominion?
edmund		I walked through a wardrobe following my sister.
white witch		Your sister? How many are you?
edmund		four
white witch		Edmund you look so cold! Come and sit with me here on my sledge.  Now, would like something warm to drink.
edmund		Yes...your majesty. How did you do that?
white witch		I can make anything you like.
edmund		Could you make me taller?
white witch		I can make anything you like to eat
edmund		Turkish Delight  Drop once again comes down and makes the box of Turkish Delight and the Dwarf gives it to Edmund
white witch		I'd love to see your family
edmund		They're nothing special
white witch		I have no children of my own and you are such a good little boy  where I could see, one day, you becoming prince of Narnia - maybe even king.
edmund		 Really?
white witch		 Of course you'd have to bring your family.
edmund		They're nothing special
edmund		Oh, Peter will be king too?
white witch		No! But a king needs servants.
edmund		I-I guess I could bring 'em.
white witch		Beyond these woods, do you see those two little hills? My house is right between them. You'd love it there Edmund, it has whole rooms simply stuffed with Turkish Delight!
edmund		Couldn't I have some more now?
white witch		NO!  Don't want to ruin you appetite.
white witch		I'm going to miss you Edmund. But we are going to see each other soon.
edmund		I hope so.
white witch		Until then...dear one. 
lucy		Edmund? Oh Edmund!!!!  I saw Mr. Tumnus again and he's fine!!! The White Witch hasn't found out about him helping me!
edmund		The White Witch?
lucy		She calls herself the Queen of Narnia, but she really isn't. Edmund? Are you okay? You look awful.
edmund		Well what do you expect! It's freezing! How do we get out of here?
lucy		Come on...this way.
lucy		 Peter, Peter wake up! It's there, it's really there!
peter		 Lucy, what are talking about?
lucy		Narnia! It's all in the wardrobe, like I told you!
susan		Oh Lucy, you've been dreaming.
lucy		No I wasn't, I saw Mr. Tumnus again! Oh, and this time - Edmund went too.
peter		You saw the faun?
lucy		Well, he didn't actually go there with me. What were you doing Edmund?
edmund		I-I was just playing along. You know what little children are like these days, they just don't know when to stop pretending 
edmund		Ow!  Lucy runs down the hall and smack into the Professor, she looks up a little frightened and then starts her crying all over again, hugging him
professor		Oh, it's alright Mrs. Macready - I'm sure there's a logical explanation. But I think this one needs some hot chocolate.
professor		*Ahem* 
professor		You seem to have upset the internal balance of my housekeeper.
peter		We are very sorry sir, it won't happen again.
susan		It's our sister sir, Lucy.
prof		The weeping girl?
susan		Yes sir, she's upset.
professor		Hence the weeping
peter		We can handle it! 
professor		Oh, I can see that.
susan		She thinks she's found a magical land in the upstairs wardrobe.
professor		What did you say!?
peter		The wardrobe upstairs, Lucy thinks she's found a forest inside.
professor		What was it like?
susan		Like talking to a lunatic!
professor		No, not her - the forest!
peter		You're-you're not saying you believe her?
professor		No, not her - the forest!
peter		You....you actually believe her?
professor		Well don't you?
susan		Well, logically it couldn't possibly be there!
professor		What do they teach at these schools?
peter		Edmund said they were only pretending
professor		And he's the more truthful one is he?
peter		No, this would be the first time.
professor		Well then, id your sister isn't lying and isn't mad then logically we must assume that she is telling the truth. She's your sister, isn't she? You're a family! It's high time you start acting like one!
peter		Peter winds up, goes for the bowl!
edmund		Ow!
peter		Whoops! Wake up, Dolly Daydream!
edmund		Can't we play hide and go seek again?
peter		I thought you said that it was a kid's game.
susan		Besides, we can all use the fresh air.
edmund		Not like there's air inside
peter		Are you ready then?
edmund		Are you? 
peter		Well done, Ed!
edmund		You bowled it!
susan		Listen, Mrs. Macready is coming
peter		Run!
edmund		 Come on!
susan		You have got to be joking.
peter		Go!
susan		Get back!
susan		Impossible!
lucy		Don't worry, it's probably just your imagination
peter		I don't suppose saying we're sorry would quite cover it?
lucy		No, it wouldn't. But this might!  Lucy nails Peter in the face with a snowball, he throws one back at her and a snowball fight
edmund		Ow! 
peter		You little liar!
edmund		You didn't believe her either!
peter		Apologize to Lucy. 
peter		Say you're sorry! 
edmund		Alright! I'm sorry.
lucy		That's alright, some little children just don't know when to stop pretending. 
edmund		: Very funny.
susan		Maybe we should go back
edmund		Can't we at lease take a look around?
peter		I think Lucy must decide!
lucy		I all want you to meet Mr. Tumnus!
peter		Well Mr. Tumnus it is 
susan		We can't just walk around in these clothes!
peter		 We can use these coats.
susan		Peter, they don't belong to us.
peter		Well I don't think the professor will mind. And if you think about it logically we are not even taking them out of the wardrobe. 
edmund		But that's a girl's coat!
peter		I know.
peter		LUCY!
lucy		Who would do something like this?
susan		Peter what is that on the wall?
peter reads		The Former occupant of these premises, the Faun Tumnus, is under arrest and awaiting his trial on a charge of High Treason against her imperial Majesty Jadis, Queen of Narnia, Chatelaine of Cair Paravel, Empress of the Lone Islands, also to comforting her said Majesty's enemies, harbouring spies and fraternizing with Humans. signed Maugrim, captain of the Secret Police, Long live the Queen.
susan		Now we should really go.
lucy		But we have to help him!
peter		It's out of our hands now Lu.
lucy		You don't get it do you? I'm the human!!! He helped ME!
peter		Maybe we should call the police
susan		These are the police!
edmund		Besides, he's a criminal!
peter		Don't worry Lucy, we'll think of something
robin		Psst!
susan		Did that bird just 'psst' us?
lucy		It's a beaver.
peter		Here, boy *clicks* come here...*clicks*
edmund		It's a talking beaver!
lucy		Yes?
lucy		This is the handkerchief I gave to Mr-
lucy		Is he alright?  MR. BEAVER Further in.
susan		Peter, we don't know what you are doing.
edmund		She's right. How do we know we can trust this beaver?
peter		He say's he knows the faun.
susan		He's a beaver...he shouldn't be saying anything!
peter		Yes. We were just talking
lucy		He means the trees.  Walk to Beaver's dam through the cliffs under a bridge and then they see the Dam
lucy		Oh, what a beautiful dam Mr. Beaver.
peter		is there nothing we can do about Mr. Tumnus?
edmund		Who's Aslan?  Mr. Beaver laughs.. Mrs. Beaver sees they are serious and lays her hand on Mr. Beaver
peter		Well we haven't actually been here very long
lucy		waiting for us?
beaver		You got to be joking! Look, Aslan's return, Tumnus' arrest.....the secret police! They're all happening because of you!
susan		You're blaming us?  MRS. BEAVER Not blaming you dear, thanking you.
beaver		There's....a prophecy, When Adam's flesh and Adam's bone sits in if Cair Paravel in throne the evil is over and done.
susan		You know that doesn't really rhyme.
peter		And you think we're the ones???  MR. BEAVER Well you'd better be, Aslan's already fitted out your army!!!
peter		I think you've made a mistake; we're not heroes!
susan		We're from Finchley!
peter		I think it's time we were going.
lucy		But what about Mr. Tumnus?
peter		Sorry Lucy. It's out of our hands.
susan		Thank you for your hospitality.
peter		Ed, time to go- Ed?  I'm going to kill him.
peter		Hurry up!  They reach the top of the hill and see Ed going through the Witch's castle gates
lucy		 Edmund!  MR. BEAVER Shh! They'll hear ya!  Peter starts to run after Edmund but Mr. Beaver grabs him by the sleeve of his coat
peter		Get off me!
peter		We just can't let him go!
beaver		Don't you get it?! He's the bait! She wants all of ya in there!!! To kill ya!
susan		This is all your fault! None of this would have happened if you had just listened to me in the first place!
peter		So you knew this would happen?
susan		I didn't know what would happen...
lucy		Stop, this fighting isn't going to help Edmund
beaver		She's right. Only Aslan can save him now.
peter		Then take us to him.
maugrim		Stand still stranger!
edmund		I'm a Son of Adam, I met the Queen in the woods!
maugrim		My apologies, fortunate favourite of the queen - or perhaps not so fortunate.
maugrim		Wait here 
white witch		You like it!
edmund		 Ye... yes, your majesty!
white witch		I thought you might
white witch		Tell me, you sisters, are they deaf?
edmund		No
white witch		and your brother, unintelligent?
edmund		Well I think so, but mom says...
white witch		Then how dare you come alone! Edmund, I ask so little of you
edmund		They just don't listen to me!
white witch		Couldn't even do that!
edmund		I...I did bring them half way. There at the dam at the house of the beaver's!
white witch		Well...I guess your not a total lost then.
edmund		Is there any chance I may have some more Turkish delight now?
white witch		Ginnabrick, our guest is hungry
ginnabrick		This way...for your num nums...
white witch		Maugrim!!!! You know what to do....
maugrim		Take them
susan		What is she doing?
beaver		I'M CRANKY NOW!
susan		Do you think we should bring jam?
peter		Only if the Witch has toast.
lucy		They're in the tunnel!
beaver		There was no room next to the jam!
susan		What happened to them?
fox		This is what happens to the enemies of the White Witch.
fox		Relax, I'm one of the good guys
fox		An unfortunate family resemblance, but we can discuss family breeding later right now we need to move.
peter		What do you suggest?  FOX LOOKS UP  The Fox stays on lower ground, The Beavers & the children are in a tree...the wolves approach
fox		Evening gents, Did we lose something?
wolf		Don't patronized me, I know where your allegiance lies. We are looking for some humans
fox		Humans in Narnia, now that's some valuable information
maugrim		Where are they?!!!  Lucy cries out, Peter shushes her  the fox looks around hopelessly, and then hangs his head in shame
fox		They , they , were heading North.
maugrim		Quickly, smell them out.
lucy		are you all right?
fox		Well, I wish I could say their bark was worse than their bite.
fox		Well I am afraid that is all the healing I have time for.
susan		You're leaving?
fox		It has been a pleasure my Queen. I have been asked by Aslan HIMSELF to gather more troops.
fox		Like everything we have ever heard. He'll be a good help fighting the White Witch
susan		We are not planning fighting any witch
fox		Surely King Peter...
peter		We just want to get our brother back.
edmund		Mr... Tumnus.
edmund		I'm Edmund!
edmund		I... I don't know!
white witch		My wolves tore that dam apart, your little family was nowhere to be found.  Where are they?!
edmund		I don't know..
white witch		Then you are no longer any use to me...Guard
edmund		Wait they said something about Aslan
white witch		Aslan! Where?  MR. TUMNUS Stranger has only been in Narnia a short...
edmund		I left before I could hear anymore...I wanted to see you again.
white witch		Guard!
guard		Yes, your majesty
white witch		Release the Faun  Do you know why you are here?
white witch		You're here because he  upstairs and ready my sleigh, Edmund misses his family.
susan		River?
peter		It seems so far
susan		Smaller...  They continue their journey.
white witch		Whenever you are ready Son-of-Adam.
peter		If he tells me to Hurry up one more time I'm going to turn him into a big fluffy hat
lucy		He is getting kinda bossy    MR. BEAVER It's her! Run!  Quick down here!
lucy		Maybe she's gone.
peter		I'll go and have a look
lucy		AHHH!
lucy		Merry Christmas, Sir!
father christmas		It certainly is, Lucy. Thanks to you.
susan		I thought there was no Christmas in Narnia.
father christmas		It hasn't been for a hundred years. But now the Witch's power is crumbling. 
lucy		Presents!
father christmas		Lucy, Eve's Daughter. These are for you. The juice of the fire flower. If you, or one of your friends are wounded, one drop of this cordial will restore them. And though I do not expect you to use it, this.
lucy		Well, I think I could be brave enough.
father christmas		I'm sure you could. But battles are ugly affairs. Eve's Daughter, Susan. Trust in this bow, for it does not easily miss.
susan		What happened to, 'battles are ugly affairs?'
father christmas		And, though you don't seem to have trouble making yourself heard, this. When you put this horn to your lips and blow it, wherever you are, help will come.
susan		Thanks.
father christmas		And, Peter. These are tools, not toys. The time to use them may be soon at hand.
father christmas		Bare them well! I best be off, winter is almost over and things do pile up when you've been gone a thousand years. Long live Aslan! 
the children		Bye... Merry Christmas!
lucy		Told you he was real!
peter		Did you hear what he said... winter is almost over. You no what that means... no more ice!
susan		Wait, maybe we should think about this.
peter		We don't have time.
susan		I was just trying to be realistic
peter		No, you're trying to be smart...as usual!
peter		Maybe you should.
mr beaver		Well you never know what meal is gonna be your last, especially with your cooking.
susan		if mum knew what we were doing...
peter		Mum's not here!!!
lucy		 Oh no!
peter		Run!!!!!
maugrim		Put that down boy, someone might get hurt.
maugrim		Leave now while you can, and you're brother leaves with you.
susan		Stop Peter, maybe we should listen to him!
maugrim		Smart girl.  MR. BEAVER Don't listen to him. Kill him. Kill him now!
susan		Look, just because some man in a red suit hands you a sword doesn't make you a hero! So just drop it!
beaver		No Peter! Narnia need ya!
maugrim		What's it gonna be Son of Adam? We're not going to wait for ever. And neither is the river.
lucy		PETER!!!!
peter		Hold onto me!
susan		What have you done?!
lucy		Has anyone seen my coat?
dwarf		It's so warm here!  I think I'll go check the sleigh.
wolf		We found the traitor  He was gathering troops near the sharwood forest.
white witch		Nice of you to drop by. I understand you were so helpful to my wolves last night.
fox		Forgive me your majesty
white witch		Don't waste my time with flattery.
fox		Not to seem rude, but I wasn't actually talking to you 
edmund		Wait! The Beavers said something about the Stone Table and an army.
white witch		Thank you Edmund. It is good for this creature to see some honesty before he dies..
edmund		NO!
white witch		Think who's side you are on. MINE... It's a war he shall get.
susan		Why are they all staring at us?
lucy		Maybe they think you look funny.
peter		 We have come to see Aslan.
aslan		Welcome Peter Adam's son, Welcome Susan and Lucy daughters-of-Eve. Welcome Beavers. You have my thanks, but where is the fourth.
peter		That's why we are here.
susan		We had a little trouble along the way.
peter		He's been captured by the White Witch
crowd		Captured!
oreius		Then he has betrayed us all
aslan		Peace Oreius.
peter		It is my fault really. I was too hard on him.
susan		We all were.
lucy		Sir, he's our brother.
aslan		I know dear and that makes the betrayal all the worse. It may be harder than you think
aslan		That is Cair Paravel of the four thrones one of which you must sit as High King.
aslan		You doubt the prophecy
peter		No, that's just it...you're not who I think I am
aslan		Peter Pevensie formerly of Finnchley. Beaver also said you wanted to turn him into a hat.
peter		I don't think I will be able.
aslan		You were able to get your family here.
peter		Not all of them.
aslan		I will do what I can for Edmund. I too want my family safe.
susan		Mother hasn't had a dress like this since before the war
lucy		Maybe we had bring back a whole trunk load when we go home.
susan		If we go home...Sorry I guess I am like that. Remember when we use to have fun?
lucy		Yes, before you go boring.
susan		Oh really 
wolf		Now, We're very tired. We'd prefer to kill you quickly.
cut to		Peter and Aslan
cut to		Susan and Lucy  Susan and Lucy are in a tree and wolf trying to get them. Peter come back through the river
aslan		Follow him! He'll lead you to Edmund. Peter, clean your sword.
aslan		Rise, Sir Peter Wolfsbane--Knight of Narnia.
general otmin		The Minotaurs on the left, send in the dwarfs first.
dwarf		You're not going to kill him?
white witch		Not yet! We have work to do 
lucy		EDMUND!  Peter stops her. Aslan motions Edmund down and they go to the group of his siblings
aslan		What's done is done. There is no reason to bring up the past with your brother.
edmund		Hello...
lucy		Oh, Edmund 
susan		How are you feeling?
edmund		I'm feeling kinda tired
peter		Get some rest...and Edmund try not to wander off again.
lucy		Narnia isn't going to run out of toast Edmund
peter		then you better pack some for the journey
susan		So were going home?
peter		You are, I promised I'd keep you three safe but there's no reason I can't stay and help.
lucy		but they need us...All four of us
peter		Lucy it's too dangerous. You almost drowned, Edmund was almost killed!
edmund		Which is why we have to stay.
edmund		I've seen what the White Witch can do and I've helped her do it, and we can't leave these people behind to suffer for it.
susan		Well I guess that's it then. *gets up*
peter		Where are you going?
susan		 To get in some practice.
peter		Come on Ed, sword hand up like Oreius showed us.
edmund		Whoa horsey!
horse		My name is Philip.
edmund		Oh, sorry
dwarf		Jadis.. Jadis!!!  Jadis arrives at the camp, Cyclops carry her bed-thingy...She hops down, and walks towards Aslan
jadis		You have a traitor in your midst, Aslan.
aslan		His offence was not against you.
white witch		Have you forgotten the Deep Magic?
aslan		Do not cite the Deep Magic to me, Witch. I was there when it was made.
white witch		Then you will know that the boy belongs to me.  will die on the Stone Table.
peter		Come and take it then.
white witch		You think that a simple threat will deny me my right, little king? Aslan knows that if I do not have blood as the law demands, all of Narnia will be overturned, and perish, in fire and water.
aslan		Enough, I shall talk with you alone.
aslan		The Witch has denounced her claim on Edmund
white witch		How will I know your promise will be kept?
lucy		Susan!  Susan see's the shadow, the two leave their tent. Aslan is leaving the camp...they follow him. and follow him...and follow him. Until-
aslan		Aren't you suppose to be in bed?
lucy		We couldn't sleep
susan		Please, Aslan. Couldn't we come with you?
aslan		I would be glad of the company tonight.
aslan		It is time. From now on, I must go on alone. Thank you Susan. Thank you Lucy. And farewell.
lucy		 Why doesn't he fight back?
white witch		Bind him. Wait. First let him be shaved.
white witch		Tonight, the Deep magic will be appeased, but tomorrow, we will take Narnia, Forever!
white witch		You know, Aslan, I'm a little disappointed in you. Did you really think that by giving your life you would save the Human boy? Ha. You are giving up your life, and saving no one. So much for love.
white witch		In that knowledge... Despair... and DIE!!!!!!
white witch		The great cat is DEAD!!
white witch		General, gather your army and prepare for battle. However short it may be.
susan		It's too late. He's gone. I'm sure he knew what he was doing.
lucy		We can't just leave him here.
susan		Lucy there's not time. We have to tell the others.
lucy		The Trees
dryad		Fear not my princes. I come with tidings of grave news..
peter		It is true, he's gone
edmund		Then you'll have to lead us. There's a whole army out there waiting to follow you.
peter		I can't
edmund		Aslan believed you could. And so do I.
oreius		what are your orders?  Peter looks at map... you see the battle field
gryphon		They come, you highness, in numbers and weapons far greater then our own.
oreius		Numbers do not win a battle
peter		No, but I bet they help
white witch		I take no interest in prisoners. Kill them all
otman		Look to the sky
peter		Are you with me?
orieus		To the death!
peter		FOR NARNIA, AND FOR ASLAN!!!!
susan		We should go.
lucy		I'm so cold.
lucy		Susan!
susan		What have they done?
susan		We saw the Witch, the knife.
aslan		If the Witch knew the true meaning of sacrifice, she might have interpreted the Deep Magic a little differently. For she would know that if a willing victim who had committed no treachery died in a traitors stead, the Stone Table would crack and death itself would begin to unwind.
susan		We sent the word that you were dead. Peter and Edmund would have gone to war.
lucy		 We have to help them.
aslan		We will, but not alone. Now, climb on my back. We have a long ways to go and little time to get there. And you might want to cover your ears. ROAR!!!!!!!!!!!!!
peter		Fall back! Draw them to the rocks!
beaver		That's the signal! Get ready!
edmund		FIRE!
peter		Stop!
lucy		Susan this is...
susan		MR TUMNUS!!!!
aslan		Come, lets search the castle - others may still be trapped inside and Peter will need all the help he can get.
peter		Ed! There are too many of them! Go! Get out of here! Get the girls, and get them home!
beaver		Come on, you heard him!  Ed starts to leave, then sees the Witch. And starts to go back
beaver		Peter said to go!
edmund		Peter's not King yet!
peter		Edmund!!
witch		Impossible!
aslan		It is finished.
susan		Where's Edmund?
susan		Edmund! 
peter		When are you ever going to do are you're told?
aslan		Bring forth the crowns!
aslan		 And to the clear northern skies, King Peter the Magnificent. Once a king or Queen of Narnia, always a king or queen.
everyone		Long live King Peter! Long live Queen Susan! Long live King Edmund! And long live Queen Lucy!
tumnus		We'll see him again.
lucy		When?
tumnus		In time...you mustn't press him, He isn't a tame lion...
lucy		No, but he's good...
tumnus		Here  I think you need this more than I do.
edmund		You alright there Philip?
philip		Not as young as I used to be?
susan		Come on Ed.
edmund		Just catching my breath
lucy		What did he say, Susan?
susan		You girls stay at the castle, I'll go get the stag myself.
peter		What is this? 
susan		It seems like a dream...
lucy		Or a dream of a dream...Spare Oom
peter		Not again
lucy		Come on
edmund		She always running off
peter		These aren't branches...
susan		There coats 
all		Stop pushing...ah.... 
professor		There you are. Now what were children doing the wardrobe?
peter		You wouldn't believe us if we told you 
professor		Try me
professor		I don't think you'll get back in that way...you see I've already tried.
lucy		Will we ever go back?
professor		I expect so, probably when you least expect it. What's to say Keep your eyes open 
****Dialogues from script :Cider_House_Rules.txt****

larch		I named him after the Greek writer. You know Homer, of course?
larch		I made his name "Wells" because I could tell he was very deep.
larch		"Good night, you Princes of Maine, you Kings of New England!"
adopting mother		There's something wrong with him! He never makes a sound.
adopting father		Do you think we could have a look at someone a little different?
homer		Don't be frightened. Everyone is nice here.
pregnant woman		Do you live here?
homer		I just belong here.
larch		Homer, if you're going to stay at St. Cloud's, I expect you to be of use.
homer		Dr. Larch! Dr. Larch!
homer		We've got two new patients, one to deliver.
larch		First pregnancy?
homer		Yes, for both.
larch		 I presume you'd prefer handling the delivery.
homer		 All I said was, I don't want to perform abortions. I have no argument with *you* performing them.
larch		You know *how* to help these women-- how can you not feel *obligated* to help them when they can't get help anywhere else?
homer		One: it's illegal. Two: I didn't ask how to do it--you just showed me.
larch		What *else* could I have showed you, Homer? The only thing I can teach you is what I know! In every life, you've got to be of use.
larch		 Have you ever had ether, Dorothy?
dorothy		Once, when they took out my appendix.
angela		 No one's touched your appendix.
dorothy		Whatever it was... the ether made me sick.
larch		It won't make you sick this time, Dorothy--not the way I do it, just a drop at a time.
dorothy		I can't pay for this, you know--I got no money.
larch		One day, Dorothy, if you have any money, a donation to the orphanage would be very much appreciated.
angela		Only if you can afford it.
larch		 Try to think of nothing, Dorothy.
homer		That was good, Carla--that was *perfect*. Everything's fine.
carla		I don't wanna see it!
edna		You don't have to see it, dear. Don't worry.
carla		I don't even wanna know what sex it is--don't tell me!
homer		We won't tell you, Carla. You're going to be okay.
edna		Your *baby's* going to be okay, too.
carla		I don't wanna know!
larch		He's a big boy!
carla		Let me see him, for Christ's sake--I wanna see him.
larch		Would you mind having a look at Dorothy?
homer		There was no visible wound?
larch		No. The fetus was dead. Her uterus was virtually *disintegrating*--my stitches pulled right through the tissue!
homer		 It looks like scurvy.
larch		 Scurvy! Ah yes, the curse of the old- time sailor, suffering long periods at sea with no fresh fruits or vegetables. Homer, Dorothy isn't a *sailor*!
angela		She's a prostitute, isn't she?
homer		 Did you look in her purse?
larch		 I looked everywhere else!
angela		It's called French Lunar Solution.
larch		It's not ergot, it's not pituitary extract, it's not oil of rue...
angela		It claims to restore monthly regularity.
homer		It's obviously an aborticide.
larch		Obviously.
larch		 Christ, it's oil of tansy!
homer		I don't know it.
larch		If you take enough of it, your intestines lose their ability to absorb Vitamin C.
homer		In other words, scurvy.
larch		Good boy. Good job. And you call yourself "not a doctor"!  Keep an eye on her--she's in trouble.
larch		Take care of that, will you?
buster		I'll help you.
buster		He *sniffs* that ether! I've seen him do it!
homer		It's because he's too tired to sleep. He has to.
buster		He *smells* like he could put you to sleep!
homer		He's a doctor, Buster--doctors smell like ether.
buster		*You're* a doctor, Homer--you don't smell like ether.
homer		I'm *not* a doctor. I haven't been to medical school--I haven't even been to high school!
buster		But you've studied with the old man for *years*!
homer		I'm *not* a doctor!
buster		I'm sorry, Homer.
larch		Fuzzy is not uncommon. I tell you, there's something about the premature babies of alcoholic mothers. They seem susceptible to every damn thing that comes along.
homer		I haven't read that.
larch		I haven't, either. But you *will*. The morons who write the books should do a little research *here*.
homer		But isn't Fuzzy just... well, underdeveloped?
larch		When *doesn't* he have bronchitis? I wouldn't call his bronchial infections "underdeveloped." Would you?
homer		What is it, Mary Agnes?
mary agnes		 Look!
homer		Did you bite it?
mary agnes		I don't remember.
homer		 It looks like you bit it--it'll be all right.
mary agnes		Maybe I was kissing someone and he bit me.
homer		 No, you did it yourself. Maybe in your sleep.
mary agnes		I must have been *dreaming* of kissing someone.
homer		Story time, Fuzzy!
edna		"Oh Lord, support us all the day long..."
edna		"Then in Thy mercy grant us save lodging, and holy rest, and peace at the last."
larch		"A dog, which had lain concealed till now, ran backwards and forwards on the parapet with a dismal howl, and collecting himself for a spring, jumped for the dead man's shoulders."
larch		"Missing his aim, he fell into a ditch, turning completely over as he went; and striking his head against a stone, dashed his brains out.
larch		Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England!
fuzzy		 Why does Dr. Larch *do* tht every night?
curly		 Maybe to scare us...
copperfield		 No, you jerk.
steerforth		 Dr. Larch *loves* us!
fuzzy		But why does he do *that*?
buster		He does it because we like it.
mary agnes		Buster is mine. You two get Copperfield and Curly. Nobody touches Fuzzy.
edna		Stop it! No fighting! *Share* the snowballs!
buster		 They're *our* snowballs! They *stole* them!
mary agnes		They attacked us--just like the Japs!
edna		Listen to you, Fuzzy! You've been running. You get to the shower!
mary agnes		I know the type--they'll take one of the babies.
angela		Wilbur, the adopting couple is waiting in your office.
larch		 Life is waiting.
larch		Where's the name sheet?
homer		Nobody's named this one yet.
larch		It's my turn!
larch		Henceforth you shall be... Little Dorrit!
homer		He doesn't like it.  He's a boy, That's why.
larch		Can't a boy be a Dorrit?
homer		I don't think so.
larch		You do it then.
homer		Henceforth you shall be... Little Wilbur.
larch		I'm not crazy about the "Little..."
homer		Okay, he's just a Wilbur then.
larch		We haven't had a Wilbur here in a year or so, have we? We used to have *dozens*!
copperfield		They picked Hazel! The idiots chose Hazel!
mary agnes		If people want to adopt one of us, they should have to take the oldest first.
edna		Please, Mary Agnes! This is Hazel's special day--don't make her feel sad.
mary agnes		Hazel's practically the youngest of us. She should be the *last* to leave!
clara		At least Hazel can talk. Usually they take one of the stupid babies.
mary agnes		They take the babies so they won't ever have to tell them that they were orphans!
hazel		 I'm not a baby!
mary agnes		If you cry, Hazel, they'll just send you back.
edna		Mary Agnes, that's not true!
mary agnes		That's what they did to me!
edna		You *wanted* to come back--that's why you cried.  You can cry if you feel like it, Hazel. You cry as much as you want.
larch		It is strictly for our orphans' sake that I destroy any record of their natural mothers. Of course they will, one day, want to know. But orphans, especially, should look forward to their *futures*. Not back to their pasts.
homer		Hi, Curly. You going somewhere?
curly		I thought they might take me.
homer		They wanted a girl.
curly		Nobody ever wants me!
homer		You're one of the best, Curly--we couldn't let just anyone take you.
curly		Dr. Larch wouldn't let just anyone take *any* of us!
homer		That's true.
curly		Nobody's asked for me, have they?
homer		Nobody special enough, Curly.
curly		You mean somebody asked?
homer		Only the right people can have you, Curly.
edna		Let us be happy for Hazel. Hazel has found a family. Good night, Hazel.
the girls		Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel! Good night, Hazel!
larch		I was dreaming about you. How beautiful you were!
angela		You weren't dreaming about me.
larch		I was!
angela		Then I wasn't beautiful.
larch		You were! You *are*! It was fantastic.
angela		It was just the ether, Wilbur...
homer		Are you okay? Can I get you anything?
distraught woman		No one but me ever put a hand on me, to feel that baby. Don't you want to touch it or put your ear down to it?
homer		Okay.
distraught woman		Put your ear there. Go on.
distraught woman		You shouldn't have a baby if there's no one who wants to put his face right there!
distraught woman		Stay right there. Right where you are. Stay right here. Right here.
buster		Do you ever think about leaving this place to go find them?
buster		I mean your parents.
homer		I know who you mean. I think about leaving here, but not to find *them*.
buster		Why not?
homer		Whoever they were, they didn't *do* any of the things parents are supposed to do. Dr. Larch did those things, and Nurse Edna, and Nurse Angela.
buster		Yeah. But sometimes I wish I could meet mine, anyway.
homer		What for, Buster? What would you do if you met them?
buster		Uh... I'd like to show them that I can cook, a little.
homer		You cook very well!
buster		And that I can drive a truck!
homer		 Better than I can!
buster		Sometimes I want to meet them so I can kill them. Just sometimes.
buster		Homer, you know I would never kill anyone--you know I wouldn't.
homer		I know.
buster		I think Mary Agnes could kill someone.
homer		I doubt it. She's just an...
homer		...emotional girl.
buster		What's she so emotional about?
homer		 I don't know. She got left here, like the rest of us, didn't she?
fuzzy		 He thinks she's his *mother*!
copperfield		He doesn't think she's his mother, Fuzzy.
fuzzy		He does so! He *loves* her!
carla		How could she be his *mother*?
larch		 They want to replace me! The Board of Trustees wants to *replace* me!
angela		 They just want you to hire some new help.
larch		Some new *things* would be useful. I don't need any "new help."
larch		Homer! I need you!
larch		I thought you took care of this. It always breaks in the same place. It's your splice, isn't it?
homer		 It's *your* splice! You blame me for everything!
larch		Angela, we need a new movie, a new projector, a new typewriter--*that's* what they should replace around here!
edna		We have a delivery. Imminent, in my estimation...
larch		Homer, would you get this one?
homer		She's a patient, right? She should see a doctor.
larch		 Homer, you are a skilled and gifted surgeon. You have near-prefect obstetrical and gynecological procedure.
homer		I just mean I'd rather fix the movie. Tonight.
larch		Sure. Okay. You splice. I'll deliver.
fuzzy		Homer... doesn't King Kong think the woman is his *mother*?
homer		Uh, sure--that's what Kong thinks, all right.
fuzzy		That's why Kong loves her!
homer		I thought it was my turn.
larch		It is. I'll get this. You go ahead.
homer		 "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show."
homer		"I was a posthumous child. My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months, when mine opened on it."
fuzzy		 His father's dead, right?
larch		 That's right, Fuzz.
fuzzy		Is *your* father dead?
larch		 Cirrhosis--it's a disease of the liver.
fuzzy		*Liver* killed him?
larch		*Alcohol* killed him--he drank himself to death.
fuzzy		But did you know him?
larch		Barely. It hardly mattered that I knew him.
fuzzy		Did you know your mother better?
larch		 She's dead now, too. She was a nanny.
fuzzy		What's a nanny do?
larch		She looks after other people's children.
fuzzy		Did you grow up around here?
larch		No. She was an immigrant.
fuzzy		What's an immigrant?
larch		Someone not from Maine.
edna		No one's going to hurt you, dear. Have you come to visit us? We have beds, you know. Have you had any breakfast? What's your name?
edna		Her temperature is a hundred and four.
larch		 How old are you, dear? Thirteen?
larch		Twelve? Are you twelve, dear?  Three months?
larch		Are you *four* months pregnant?
homer		 She's at least *five*.
larch		Dear child, it won't hurt when I look. I'm just going to *look*.
larch		Tell me: you haven't done something to yourself, have you?
larch		Did you go to someone else?
homer		Stuck *what* inside you?
larch		 Listen, you've been very brave. I'm going to put you to sleep--you won't feel it anymore. You've been brave enough.
edna		That's a heavy sedation.
larch		You *bet* it's a heavy sedation! The fetus is unexpelled, her uterus is punctured, she has acute peritonitis, and there's a foreign object. I think it's a crochet hook.
larch		 If she'd come to you four months ago and asked you for a simple D and C, what would you have decided to do? *Nothing*? *This* is what doing nothing gets you, Homer. It means that someone else is going to do the job--some moron who doesn't know *how*!
larch		I wish you'd come to *me*, dear child. You should have come to me, instead.
buster		What'd she die of?
larch		 She died of *secrecy*, she died of *ignorance*...
larch		 If you expect people to be responsible for their children, you have to give them the right to decide whether or not to *have* children. Wouldn't you agree?
homer		How about expecting people to be responsible enough to control themselves to begin with?
larch		How about this child? You expect *her* to be responsible?
homer		I didn't mean her. I'm talking about... adults.  You know who I mean!
homer		What?!
larch		 It's just a marvel to me that you still have such high expectations of people.
homer		I'm happy I amuse you.
homer		Try to look at it *this* way. Buster and I are sitting right here beside you. We could have ended up in the incinerator! 
larch		Happy to be alive, under any circumstances--is that your point?
homer		Happy to be alive... I guess so.
candy		So many children. Are they all orphans?
wally		Well, this *is* an orphanage.
candy		Oh, they're getting into the car... watch your fingers!
curly		I'm the best.
candy		 You are?
wally		 The best? Wow! The best at *what*?
curly		I'm the best one.
candy		Here, blow...
curly		I really *am* the best, I just have a cold.
candy		Blow! There, I bet that feels better.
curly		 Yeah.
larch		Curly, come here!
curly		 *Tell* them! I'm the one.
homer		 I'm sorry. They're not used to seeing a car like this.
wally		It's okay--I don't mind.
wally		We brought some chocolates for the kids.
larch		 Chocolates. How *thoughtful*.
curly		I'm the best! *Tell* them!
larch		You're the best, Curly.
homer		So, Mrs...
candy		Candy. Candy Kendall.
wally		Wally. Wally Worthington.
homer		 How many months are you?
candy		 Two.
wally		So, now, uh... you're not... I mean, do *you* do the--
homer		No. Dr. Larch will be performing the procedure.
wally		 Ah, well... okay. Good! I just wondered...
edna		Excuse me, Homer. Dr. Larch said this one is your turn.
edna		Oh, dear--I'm sorry. I meant the circumcision. That boy you delivered on Tuesday...
homer		Sure. Fine. Have you prepped him?
edna		I'll get started.
wally		I think it was the ether--the smell got to me.  God. This is all my fault.
edna		 Steerforth got into the pantry--he's eaten all the pie dough.
curly		 He wasn't sharing it, either.
edna		He's down the hall, throwing up.
homer		What kind of plane are you flying?
wally		A B-24 Liberator.
homer		Liberator...
wally		Have you enlisted?
homer		They wouldn't take me. I'm Class IV-- I've got a heart defect.
wally		Really! Is it serious?
homer		No, it's not serious. I'm just not supposed to get excited. You know-- no strain, no stress. I try to keep calm all the time.
wally		Oh, well. I don't imagine there's any strain or stress around *here*!
wally		How is she doing?
larch		Just fine.
candy		 Boy or girl?
angela		It was nothing--it's all over.
wally		It's all over, honey.
candy		 I would like to have a baby, one day. I really would.
angela		Why, of course--you can have as many children as you want. I'm sure you'll have very beautiful children.
larch		You'll have Princes of Maine! You'll have Kings of New England!
larch		I suggest you find yourself some fresh air, Lieutenant.
homer		 Uh... it's the end of October.
fuzzy		Is that soon?
steerforth		That's a few months away, Fuzz.  I still don't feel so good.
fuzzy		 Oh. It's the best time! How come we only get pumpkins once a year?
homer		Don't get too excited, Fuzzy.
fuzzy		Why can't we have pumpkins for Christmas, too? We don't get any good presents at Christmas, anyway.
homer		Has anyone offered you anything to eat?
wally		Actually, someone did. I just didn't think I could eat anything.
homer		 I wonder if you might give me a ride.
wally		Sure! Be glad to! Uh... a ride where?
homer		 Where are you going?
wally		We're heading back to Cape Kenneth.
homer		Cape Kenneth...
homer		That sounds fine.
larch		 Doubtless you'll let me know what immensely worthwhile or at least *useful* thing it is that you find to do.
homer		 I wasn't intending to leave here in order to be entirely useless--I expect I'll find some ways to be of use.
larch		In other parts of the world, I suppose there are other ways.
homer		 Of course.
larch		 Are you really so *stupid* that you imagine you're going to find a more gratifying life? What you're going to find is people like the poor people who get left here--only nobody takes care of them as well! And you won't be able to take care of them, either. There's no taking care of *anybody*-- not out there!
homer		 You know I'm grateful for everything you've done for me...
larch		 I don't need your gratitude.
homer		 I don't need this--I know all about my condition.
larch		It's your heart--you ought to take it with you.
edna		Going where? Does he have a plan of some kind?
angela		Will he be back soon?
larch		I don't know! He's just leaving--  *That's* what he'll do--he'll see the world!
edna		 He's leaving...
angela		He'll need clothes... some money...
larch		Let him try to *make* some money! That's part of "seeing the world," isn't it?
angela		 Oh, just stop it! You knew this was going to happen. He's a young man.
larch		 He's still a boy--out in the world, he's still a boy.
angela		Just find him some clothes, Wilbur. He could use some clothes.
larch		 I think these will fit you.
edna		You'll need some money--just a little something, until you find a job.
candy		 I'm okay--I can walk.
wally		I don't want you to walk--I want to carry you. Should I put the top up? It might get cold.
candy		No--keep it down. I want to feel the air.
candy		 Coming with us? It's always a good idea to have a doctor along for the ride.
homer		I have to go, Curly. I'm sorry.  I couldn't find Buster. Will you tell him...
angela		Let us be happy for Homer Wells...
wally		Actually, the Army has given me leave twice. First when my father died, and now I'm on leave to help my mother-- I'm just trying to get her ready for the harvest. She's no farmer. Apples were my dad's business. And with the war on, she's short on pickers.
candy		 Wally thinks apples are boring.
wally		 I never said they were boring.
candy		You said, "Apples aren't exactly flying."
wally		Well, they aren't.
homer		I think I'd probably like the apple business.
wally		You're a little overqualified, aren't you?
homer		No, I'm not. I need a job.
wally		The only jobs are picking jobs. Picking apples is truly boring.
candy		There! You said it was boring.
wally		Well, *picking* them is! It's about as exciting as... walking!
homer		Is your family in the apple business, too?
candy		No, but I work there--I like it. My dad's a lobsterman.
homer		I've never seen a lobster.
candy		Really?
homer		I've never seen the ocean, either.
wally		 You've never seen the *ocean*?
wally		That's not funny... that's *serious*.
candy		I couldn't have a baby with someone who's leaving me--I didn't know what else to do!
homer		I know.
candy		He's going to be dropping bombs on Mandalay! They're going to be shooting at him!
homer		Where's Mandalay?
candy		Burma!
homer		Oh...
candy		I can't have a baby alone. I don't even know if he's coming back!
homer		I understand.
wally		Honey, honey... of course I'll come back.
candy		You don't *know*, Wally. You have no *idea*!
candy		Stay away from me!
homer		 This is all normal. Don't worry. The abortion procedure... it affects you. It's the ether, too. It'll take a little time.
wally		I don't *have* any time. There's a *war*!
homer		It's all very normal.
wally		You ought to cut that shit out--it's terrible for you.
candy		I'm a little worried about the...  ...about how much bleeding is okay.
homer		It should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. You have cramps?  They'll ease up, almost entirely. As long as the bleeding isn't heavy, it's normal.
wally		 Give it here!
wally		What was *that*?! Come over here!
wally		It's called the Burma run. It's about a seven-hour round-trip flight between India and China.
homer		"Burma run" because you fly over Burma...
wally		*And* over the Himalayas. That's called flying over the hump.
wally		I've got thirty-five minutes to climb to fifteen thousand feet--that's the first mountain pass.
homer		What lousy luck--I mean your orders... to draw an assignment like that!
wally		 Actually, I volunteered.
homer		It's the flying, right? You love to fly, don't you?
wally		I love the bombing, too. But there's also the Himalayas--they have the most wicked air currents in the world. I wouldn't miss flying there for anything.
wally		Uh, look... if you're serious about wanting a job, picking apples isn't that boring.
homer		Oh, I would love that, Wally.
candy		I guess I'll see you around the orchards. Thanks for everything.
homer		Sure... I'll see you around.
candy		 I love you, Wally.
wally		I love you, too. See you tomorrow.
wally		Come on. You have to meet my mom.  If it comes up, I've been at a wedding. That's where I met you, at the wedding.
wally		This is Homer Wells--he's the most overqualified apple picker you'll ever meet, but he's dying to learn the apple business.
olive		How do you do, Homer Wells...
homer		How do you do...
olive		Were you a friend of the bride or the groom?
wally		Homer is everybody's friend, Mom... the bride's, the groom's, mine, Candy's, *everybody's*.
olive		Well, perhaps you'll come to dinner, Homer...
wally		Not tonight, Mom--he's got to meet *Mr. Rose*!
jack		You already used up the hot water!
muddy		You're usin' my soap, ain't you?
jack		I ain't usin' no soap--it's too cold to bother with soap!
muddy		There ain't never enough hot water, soap or no soap.
wally		They're migrants.
homer		 Migrants?
wally		Yes. They pick fruit, all kinds. They travel up and down the coast with the seasons.  The trick to Mr. Rose is, you have to let him be the boss.
rose rose		That sink's backed up again, Wally. I thought you was gonna get me a plumber.
wally		Rose, this is Homer--Homer, this is Mr. Rose's daughter, Rose.
homer		Rose Rose?
rose rose		Pretty, ain't it? You a plumber?
wally		No, no--Homer is a new *picker*. He's going to stay here with you.
rose rose		 He's stayin' *here*?
wally		Homer's got no experience, Arthur, but he's smarter then I am. He's a fast learner.
wally		 See you later.
homer		So. What should I do now?
peaches		What kind of a name is Homer?
homer		It's the name of a cat. Originally. Well, not *originally*.
rose rose		What's that?
homer		It's just my heart.
rose rose		What you got a picture of your heart for?
homer		There's a little something wrong with it. Just this part here--the right ventricle. It's slightly enlarged.
rose rose		So what?
homer		Yes, so what. It's nothing serious, really. Just a small defect.
homer		Right.
peaches		They told Muddy his feet was too flat!
muddy		 And you was "generally unfit," as I recall.
homer		Do you like to read?
rose rose		 I can't read. Nobody taught me.
rose rose		 What does it say there?
homer		 "I looked at the stars, and considered how awful it would be for a man to turn his face to them as he froze to death, and see no help or pity in all the glittering multitude."
homer		 More?
jack		Since you're the one who's smart enough to read... what's this?
homer		It's a list of rules, it seems.
rose rose		*Whose* rules?
muddy		They're for us, I suppose.
jack		Go on and read 'em, Homer.
homer		"One. Please don't smoke in bed."
rose rose		It's too late for that one!
homer		Okay...
wally		Remember this! In the morning, when the tall grass is wet, you can make the Jeep slide on the grass. Can you feel it?
wally		It's almost like flying.
homer		What about the trees?
wally		The trees are flak--antiaircraft fire from those geeks on the ground.
wally		 I was just showing Homer the orchards... kind of a geography lesson.
candy		 I know what you've been doing.
candy		 You've been giving him a *flying* lesson!
wally		 Didn't you?
homer		Yeah, it was great.
candy		 He thinks people *like* to get whacked by branches.
wally		*Homer* liked it!  Didn't you?
homer		Yeah, sure. There's no stress or strain around here...
vernon		What's wrong with you?
wally		 You getting along okay?
big dot		Where is that Candy?
florence		Did she leave you, Wally?
debra		Who's the boy?
florence		Wally, you can marry Debra if Candy leaves you!
big dot		Wally's gonna marry *me* if Candy leaves him!
debra		You can marry all three of us, Wally!
florence		We can take turns.
wally		You girls make it hard for a guy to go off to war.  But I'll leave my best man here to pinch-hit for me.
wally		Uh... I'm shipping out sooner than I thought. I just wanted to be sure you were settled in--and happy enough, considering...  Are you bored stiff? Or can you stick it out for a bit?
homer		Uh... actually, picking apples is as much excitement as I want for a while. I'm grateful for the job.
wally		 You're the one who's helping *me*, Homer. You're going to give my mom a little peace of mind while I'm gone. Candy, too.
homer		Well, sure... that's good, then.  All I mean is, I'm lucky I met you.
wally		I don't think so, Homer. *I'm* the lucky one.
wally		 You want to fight about it?
homer		I guess so...
angela		Wilbur, you should read this.
angela		It's from the Board. Another letter.
angela		 I think they're just testing some ideas for our next meeting.
edna		Dr. Holtz seems nice. I think he only wants to help...
larch		He is a goddamn psychiatrist--of *course* he wants to "help"! He'd be happy if he could help *commit* me!
angela		It's that Mrs. Goodhall you have to be careful of, Wilbur.
larch		One has to be more than "careful" of Mrs. Goodhall--she has sufficient Christian zeal to start her own country! I'd like to give her a little ether.
edna		So what are you going to do?
larch		"Homer Wells, born Portland, Maine,
edna		Homer was born *here*, in, what was it, 1922?
larch		"...graduated Bowdoin College, 1935,
angela		This is *your* life story, Wilbur! You just changed the dates!
larch		"An internship and two years of training at the Boston Lying-in, South End Branch. For his age, he was judged an accomplished gynecological obstetrical surgeon; he is also experienced in pediatric care..."
angela		You *invented* him! You've completely made his up!
larch		Don't you understand? The board is going to *replace* me! That's what the "new blood" is *for*!
edna		You mean they'll replace you with someone who won't perform abortions.
larch		 Well, we can only guess about that, Edna. They *are* against the law.
angela		These *credentials* are against the law!
larch		We all know who trained Homer--his credentials are as good as mine are. Don't you be holy to me about the *law*! What has the law done for any of us here?
larch		 So here is my candidate. What do you think?
edna		But what about school records? Homer doesn't have any *diplomas*...
larch		He *will* have them, Edna.
angela		Oh, Wilbur, I don't know...  We don't even know where he is!
muddy		What view?
homer		Are we supposed to be up here? The rules said...
muddy		*What* view?
jack		 I bet the view looks better from the Worthin'tons'.
rose rose		 Daddy, I'd like to be in that Wally's shoes *every* night.
rose rose		What's lucky about that?
olive		Thank you, Arthur.  And how is our Homer working out?
olive		No rotten apples?
olive		Rose... dear girl, I'm sure I can find you some other clothes.  You must have some things that would fit her.
candy		I have a *ton* of things that would fit you.
olive		 Arthur, there's no such thing as a young woman who's got all the clothes she needs.
candy		So. Not bored yet?
homer		I'm *never* bored! It's all very... different for me... here.
homer		Uh... have you been *feeling* okay?
candy		When I'm not thinking about Wally. I'm not good at being alone.  ...I don't suppose you've seen a lobster yet.
candy		 You have to come to my dad's lobster pound and see one, then.
homer		Okay...
homer		I better go.
candy		I don't think Mr. Rose would leave without you.
candy		 Sorry!
candy		 Come next week!
peaches		Whoa--look at that Homer! He's gettin' all dressed up for supper tonight!
rose rose		He ain't gettin' dressed to have supper with *us*, Peaches!
muddy		Yeah, we can wait all night for the water to come back on--you just go on and take your time.
ray		Hungry?
ray		They're the garbage-eaters of the ocean's floor. The seagulls clean up the shore. The lobsters clean up the bottom of the sea.
homer		They eat everything?
ray		Everything that falls to the bottom.
candy		It's time somebody ate *them*.
ray		 They made him a captain already-- *Captain* Worthington!
candy		Daddy, it's a letter to *me*.
ray		He mentions Homer, too, you know.
candy		 Wally said to say, "Hello."
homer		 Oh! That's... nice.
ray		 Wally said the most spectacular hits were in the oil fields at Yenangyat.
homer		A movie *outside*?
candy		Yes. But it's closed all the time now, because of the blackout.
homer		People watched the movies in their cars?
candy		 When they watched at all. Do you like movies?
homer		Yes! I've only seen one, though.
candy		You've seen only one movie? Which one?
homer		"King Kong". It's really good.
candy		I haven't seen "King Kong" since I was a kid!
angela		That's a pie apple, Wilbur. Homer said you're not supposed to eat it!
larch		So he's an apple expert, is he?
larch		 Oh my, yes! This is a *far* superior taste--and crisp, too! You know, so many apples are disappointingly mealy. I wonder of most of the apples in my life weren't meant for pies!
angela		Wilbur, he picked them for us himself...
larch		 You don't find it depressing that Homer Wells is picking apples?
larch		Or that he can't be bothered to write us a proper letter? A dissertation on apples, we don't need!
edna		 He probably doesn't make much money picking apples--he must have had to pay to send them, too.
larch		I wouldn't worry, Edna, that he doesn't have money. If he gets hungry, he can pick his dinner!
edna		Wilbur, it's a *gift*! How can you be angry with Homer for sending us a *gift*?
larch		I'll show him a *gift*! I'll give him a gift he can *use*!
candy		 But you looked as if you liked it.
homer		 I *did* like it. All I said was, "It's not 'King Kong'."
homer		First she loved him, then she didn't, then no one else could have him...
candy		She *did* love him!  How many women have you known?
homer		And what did she die of, exactly?
candy		She was torn apart! She died of a broken heart.
homer		Oh, sure!
homer		What's the *medical* explanation?
candy		Well, she was in a weakened condition...  I don't know! What about "King Kong"?! Is that medically possible?
homer		 At least King Kong knew what he *wanted*.
rose rose		What is you *doin'* with that Candy, Homer?
muddy		 He's makin' history, I suppose.
rose rose		You ain't gettin' in no trouble, I hope.
homer		No trouble.
peaches		That Candy--she's the nicest girl I know!
muddy		She's about the most beautiful girl I ever seen--I don't know if she's the nicest.
homer		She's the nicest *and* the most beautiful girl I've ever known.
rose rose		That sounds like you is in trouble already, Homer.
homer		I'm not in trouble.
rose rose		Yeah, you is. I know when people is in trouble, and you is.
larch		...and his *pathetic* resume is the best I've seen. Though I find it hard to believe the Board would be interested in this character.
larch		He looks like a bleeding-heart missionary *moron* to me, but that's going to be the problem with any doctor interested in coming here!
larch		*No*! I don't want to know him! He's doing *missionary* work--in *India*! I wrote him *weeks* ago, but he's either too holy or too busy to answer. Maybe he got killed in the war!
larch		Does it *snow* in Bombay? One winter here and we'll be shipping him south, in a *coffin*!
larch		Then I suppose we can look forward to catching various diseases from him!
larch		I'm not talking about his medical qualifications. It's the *Christian* thing that bothers me--I just don't see it being of much *use* around here.
larch		Anyway, I was just showing you this guy as an example of what's available-- I didn't think you'd be interested.
larch		I suppose it wouldn't hurt to *meet* him. What's his name again?
angela		Dr. Homer Wells.
larch		 I just hope he won't expect us to say *Grace* all the time.
edna		*Very*!
edna		I just wanted to ask you...
larch		Edna! Come dance with me! Let's be foolish tonight.
edna		Does he *know* he's supposed to be in India? Does he even *want* to come back?
larch		 He's a field hand! What could possibly hold him there?
homer		What about the worms? Most of these apples are the drops--off the ground, right? There have to be worms.
jack		Them people drinkin' that cider, they don't know there's a cigarette in there!
jack		You mean *swimmin'*. I ain't goin' in that vat to fish out no cigarette!
muddy		Just say you're in the *apple* business, man. That's the only business you wanna be in. Just say it.
peaches		 You don't wanna go in the knife business with Mistuh Rose--just say you're in the *apple* business, Jack!
jack		 What business are *you* in?
muddy		You're lucky he didn't cut your *nipples* off, man.
peaches		The good news, Jack, is you're half- undressed for *swimmin'*...
muddy		Yeah, that cigarette ain't hard to find when you're properly undressed.
homer		Give men that. I know how to do it.
rose rose		Oh, I suppose you is a doctor, Homer?
homer		Almost.
rose rose		We should drown that damn Jack in the vat!
rose rose		Yeah, you really showed him, Daddy-- you just about cut your own hand off, and all you cut off *him* was his clothes!
candy		You're a natural. You were born to drive a car like this.
homer		You think? Maybe I was.  I love this place!
homer		The screen is enormous! Imagine King Kong up *there*! Have you seen a lot of movies here?
candy		Yes... and no. When you come here, you don't really care about the movie.
homer		You don't care about the movie?
candy		What are you so crazy about the movies for?
homer		It was my favorite night at the orphanage--movie night. We'd race into the dining hall. Of course everyone wanted to sit in front, so we'd be packed in so tight you could feel the kid next to you breathing.
candy		At least you were never lonely.
homer		I didn't say that. Growing up in an orphanage, you're always lonely. You're just never alone.
homer		You're not alone in the bathroom, or... or in the shower... you're never alone in wanting the last piece of meatloaaf, or even in your own bed on a cold morning.
candy		You don't miss it?
homer		I miss things. I miss... people.  I miss reading to the boys.
candy		But you had so much *responsibility*.
homer		I never *asked* for any responsibility.
candy		Just a little privacy.
candy		Privacy is exactly the point of drive- in movies.
homer		Did you come here with Wally--to *not* watch movies?
candy		Sometimes... movies mostly bore Wally.
homer		Ah-ha.  So what is that--a radio?
candy		The *speaker*. For the movie sound.
candy		Scrunch down like this.
homer		How could you not *care* about the movie?
candy		You just cuddle. You come to hug... to kiss. You don't *come* here to watch the movie.
homer		 That's what *I'd* come here for. I'd watch the movie.
candy		Not with the right girl you wouldn't.
larch		Fuzzy? Fuzzy?
buster		What are you going to tell the little ones?
larch		I'll tell them Fuzzy was adopted.
buster		Why would the little ones believe that *anyone* would adopt him?
larch		They'll believe it because they want to believe it.
buster		Shouldn't we tell Homer?
larch		If Homer wanted to know what was happening here, he could pick up a telephone and call us.
buster		It was a family with a better breathing machine then the one Dr. Larch built.
olive		Some mail for you, Homer.
olive		And some clothes for you, dear--  let's go see if they fit.
peaches		Ain't you gonna see what it is, Homer?
peaches		Sorry, Homer...
homer		Aren't you worried that people will cut their feet?
candy		Nobody will swim here until next summer. By then, the water will have rubbed the glass smooth against the sand--there won't be any sharp edges.
candy		See? That's last year's glass, or from some year before. I put glass here every year. The ocean makes it beautiful.
candy		Give me your hand.
candy		 *Nobody* volunteers for the Burma run--he said so himself. And nobody knows *me* better than him! So how am I supposed to feel? He's a bomber pilot and I'm just selfish, I know. Well, I'm *not* a brave little girl and I'm *not* sorry.
candy		I *know* this was right.  I told him, too.
candy		 I *know* this was right.
homer		Right.
homer		This is easy--I'm not hurrying.
rose rose		He's in a big hurry, all right. I told you he's in trouble.
homer		Just tell me. Do you want me to go? Do you want me to stay?
candy		It will be okay.
homer		*What* will be okay?
candy		We have to wait and see. I think that, for *everything* in life, you have to wait and see.
homer		I'll just move on, get another job somewhere.
ray		Every time you throw a snail off the dock, you're makin' someone start his whole life over.
candy		Maybe we're doing the snails a favor, Daddy.
ray		It's gettin' late. I think I'll pack it in.
candy		Good night, Daddy.
candy		We'll just have to wait and see.
olive		I used to hate it when Wally went back to college--even when it was just college! And this was when his father was still alive... I hated it even then. Naturally I hate this more.
olive		What I mean is... I would like it very much if you thought you could be happy here, Homer.
homer		 Mrs. Worthington, I feel I'm very lucky to be here.
olive		There's not a lot of work in the winter, and you'll have to tolerate Vernon--even Wally despises him, and Wally likes everyone.
homer		I think Wally will be fine, Mrs. Worthington--he seems indestructible to me.
olive		 Just promise me one thing.
homer		Uh... sure.
olive		Just promise me that, if there's a blizzard, you'll move into Wally's room until it's over.
olive		Good-bye. Have a safe trip home. Thank you, again, for all your hard work.
olive		Good-bye, Arthur.  Homer, I'll see you tomorrow?
homer		Right.
muddy		 We all set, I think.
peaches		We see you next harvest.
muddy		Don't freeze to death, Homer.
jack		Go on and freeze to death if you want to, Homer.
rose rose		You just stay out of trouble, Homer!
candy		Olive told me.  You might have told me yourself.
homer		I'm just waiting and seeing. Like you said.
homer		I've looked at so many women... I mean, I've seen *everything* about them, *everything*... but I never felt a thing. I felt nothing. Now... with you... it *hurts*... to look at you.
larch		I think we may have lot him to the world. He's not coming back.
hero		Who's that?
peaches		It's that Homer!
muddy		It's that Candy, too...
peaches		It look nicer then home!
rose rose		How is that Wally doing?
candy		Oh, he's fine! I just heard from him. He's bombing all these places...
homer		 ...bridges, oil refineries, fuel depots...
homer		Where's Jack?
muddy		He just wasn't up for the trip.
peaches		They ain't drops--I picked 'em off the tree!
candy		Do you think I'm having a good time? Do you think I'm just *teasing* you? Do you think I *know* whether I want you or Wally?
homer		So we should "wait and see." For how long?
candy		I grew up with Wally. I began my adult life with him.
homer		Fine. That's all there is to it then.
candy		No! That's not all there is to it! I love you, too--I *know* I do.
homer		Okay, okay--I know you do, too.
candy		 It's a good thing I didn't have that baby, isn't it?
peaches		 She used to eat with us. Now we ain't good enough for her, I guess.
hero		She ain't hungry, maybe.
muddy		She ain't hungry every mornin' 'cause she's sick every mornin'.
homer		You okay, Rose?
rose rose		I guess you must like watchin' me be sick...
homer		I don't like watching anyone be sick.
homer		How many months are you?
homer		You're not yet three months, are you?
rose rose		Not yet. What do you know about it?
homer		I know more than I want to know about it. Who's the father?
rose rose		Don't trouble yourself about it, Homer--this ain't your business.
homer		But you don't look very happy.
rose rose		*Happy*! What are you thinkin'? How am I supposed to take care of a baby! I can't have a baby.
homer		Rose, please listen. Whatever you want to do, I can help you.
homer		What I mean is, if you don't want to... keep the baby, I know a place where you can go.
rose rose		You think Daddy's gonna let me go anywhere? I ain't going *nowhere*.
rose rose		Why don't you just go back to your pickin', Homer? I can take care of it myself!
homer		Rose, listen--don't *do* anything. You know, I mean to yourself. Please listen...
candy		We should take her to St. Cloud's. That much is obvious, isn't it? Let her make up her mind when she gets there...
homer		I told her! She doesn't feel she can do that. Something about her father not letting her go anywhere...
candy		Well, we have to help her!
candy		We have to do *something*. Don't we?  Homer?
candy		Hi...
rose rose		Hi...
candy		I've got some more clothes for you-- I just keep forgetting to bring them with me.
rose rose		I don't need no more clothes, thank you.
candy		 I've been through this.
rose rose		You ain't been through what I been through, Candy.
candy		 Yes, I *have*!
candy		Who's the father, Rose?
candy		You want to have the baby?
candy		I know where you can go. Homer and I can take you...
rose rose		I can't go nowhere.
candy		Why?
candy		Is it the father? Does he know?
candy		You can trust me. Is it Jack? It's not Jack, is it? It's *Muddy*! Is it Muddy?
rose rose		 No. It ain't Muddy. Muddy's just...
rose rose		It sure ain't Jack.
candy		She won't go to St. Cloud's!
homer		 Well, we can't force her. It's her decision.
candy		You don't understand! It's her father...
homer		Mr. Rose *knows*?
candy		 He's the *father*! He's her baby's father!
homer		Wait... *wait*! Are you sure?
candy		We've got to keep her away from that bastard!
homer		Is it true?
homer		Are you sleeping with your own daughter?
homer		You're actually having sex with your own little girl? Is that possible?
homer		You're lying. How can you... with your own daughter!
homer		Go on, cut my clothes. I've got other clothes.
homer		But she's your *daughter*...
homer		She's *pregnant*. Do you know *that*?
muddy		Don't mess in this, Homer, if you know what's good for you.
homer		How long's this been going on, Muddy?
muddy		Long enough. You ain't gonna stop it.
muddy		There's my knife, Homer. It ain't gonna do *me* no good. You give that knife to Rose Rose, you hear?
muddy		You best just watch you ass, Homer! You don't wanna end up like Jack!
candy		No! No!
major winslow		When the plane was hit, the crew chief and the radioman jumped close together. The copilot jumped third. All on Captain Worthington's orders-- the captain was still flying the plane. None of the men of the ground could see the sky--that's how thick the jungle was. They never saw the plane crash--they never *heard* it crash. They never saw Captain Worthington's parachute, either.
olive		Why was he missing for twenty days?
major winslow		Because the crew thought he'd gone down with the plane. They were hospitalized for almost a week in China before they were flown back to India. It wasn't until that they sorted through their gear...
candy		Who cares about their *gear*?
major winslow		Three men jumped from the plane, but they had four compasses with them. One of the crew jumped with Captain Worthington's compass.
candy		He was in Burma for twenty days without a compass?
major winslow		He followed the Irrawaddy River, all the way to Rangoon. Somehow he managed to avoid the Japs, but not the mosquitoes.
olive		Then it's malaria?
major winslow		It's encephalitis B. He's recovering at Mount Lavinia Hospital, Ceylon.  Waist down. He won't walk.
major winslow		 I'm sorry.
homer		 There are no autonomic effects, are there?
major winslow		No autonomic effects... that's correct.
olive		When will he be home, Major?
major winslow		Four weeks or so, right around Halloween.
homer		 There are no autonomic effects, just the paralysis of the lower extremities.
homer		Wally can have kids, a normal sex life...
ray		How about him not needin' the friggin' compass! How about that?
candy		Daddy, *please*...
ray		Good night, kids. Don't catch cold-- it's gettin' cold already.
candy		Good night, Daddy.
homer		Good night, Ray.
homer		Just tell me. I'll do whatever you want to do.
candy		Nothing.
homer		Isn't that like waiting and seeing?
candy		No. Nothing is nothing. I want Wally to come home. I'm afraid to see him, too.
homer		I know.  Is *that* nothing.
candy		No, don't--that's something. Nothing is nothing.  Don't even look at me. I want...
candy		...to do nothing.
homer		 It's a tempting idea, I know... to do nothing.
candy		 Please don't move, don't go anywhere.
homer		 *Go* anywhere? Of course not! That would be *doing* something, wouldn't it? We wouldn't want to *do* something. Let's just sit here all night!
candy		 If you're trying to be funny, Homer...
homer		 I'm not trying to be anything--I'm just doing nothing! If I wait and see long enough, then--with any luck-- I won't *ever* have to make up my mind! Decisions can be painful, after all...
candy		Stop it! Just cut it out!
homer		 You got up! You *did* something! If you keep this up, you might be in danger of making a *decision*!
candy		For God's sake, Homer, Wally's been shot down!
homer		 I know, I'm sorry.
candy		 He's *paralyzed*!
homer		 So do I.
candy		 What do you want me to *do*?
homer		 Nothing. You're not the one who has to do anything.
rose rose		I ain't your business no more, Daddy. Please let me go.
homer		Hey, hey! Stop it. Maybe I can help.
rose rose		That's right, Homer. This ain't your business.
homer		Please listen to me! *Both* of you...
homer		Mr. Rose, I'm in the *doctor* business.  If you want, I can help you. You don't have to go anywhere.
homer		One cervical stabilizer, two sets of dilators--Douglas points. One medium- sized curette, one small; one medium speculum, one large; two vulsellum forceps.
homer		Merthiolate, ether, vulval pads, gauze--lots of gauze.
homer		No *almost* about it--I'm a doctor.
homer		Get out of here, please.
homer		Okay. Then you can be of use.
homer		You better get some air.
candy		The bleeding should taper off tomorrow, but it can come back again. The cramps will ease up, almost entirely. The bleeding is usually much lighter in two days. As long as the bleeding isn't heavy, it's normal.
muddy		It's that Vernon--he keeps askin' where you and Homer and Rose Rose is at.
muddy		I told him that you all is sick.
peaches		Look at that. Them same damn rules is tacked up again!
muddy		Why don't you put them damn rules in the wood stove, Peaches?
rose rose		I want to hear what they are, first.
rose rose		Homer, let me hear what they are.
homer		"One: Please don't smoke in bed."
muddy		We heard that one already, Homer.
homer		"Two: Please don't go up to the roof to eat your lunch."
peaches		That's the best place to eat lunch!
homer		"Three: Please--even if you are very hot--do not go up to the roof to sleep."
hero		What do they think? They must think we're crazy!
muddy		They think we're dumb niggers so we need dumb rules--that's what they think.
homer		This is the last one.
homer		"Four: There should be no going up on the roof at night."
peaches		Why don't they just say, "Stay off the roof!"?
hero		Yeah, they don't want us up there *at all*!
rose rose		 That's *it*?
homer		That's it.
rose rose		It means nothin' at all! And all this time I been *wonderin'* about it!
peaches		They're *outrageous*, them rules!
homer		Right.
candy		Please don't make me say it again.
homer		No, that's not it--I just want to be sure I understand you.
homer		I *helped* you not to think about Wally. You were so upset--you couldn't stand worrying about him, about his being killed and not coming back-- but when you were with me, you could stop worrying... well, for a while, anyway. This is how I helped you, right?
candy		Please... that's enough. I *loved* you, too--you know I did.
homer		"...did." Well, okay.
candy		Please don't...
homer		 And now that Wally's coming back, and because he'll certainly *need* you...
candy		You say that as though it's some awful thing!  I never stopped loving Wally!
homer		 At least there's no more waiting and seeing. At least I got to see the ocean.
muddy		Rose Rose has runned away!
peaches		She took off in the night!
muddy		She took off on the bicycle, man.
homer		 Where'd she get you?
muddy		*You* taught her, I suppose...
homer		 There's more than one laceration, more than one cut.
homer		Right?
muddy		That what happen--you lost you only daughter so's you killed yourself! That's what we say, all right.
candy		Do you think she'll be all right?
homer		She knows how to take care of herself.
candy		This came for you a couple of days ago. Olive asked me to bring it. With everything happening, I guess she forgot.
homer		Sure. Thanks.
candy		I know you don't think much of being needed, or of me for that matter...
homer		I'm sorry for what I said about Wally needing you. It was... unnecessary.
candy		No, I'm the one who should be sorry. You have every right to be angry.
homer		No. You warned me. I didn't listen, but you warned me.
homer		You told me you weren't any good at being alone.  You told Wally, too. Right?
homer		 He's going to be fine, Wally's going to be fine. I know he is.
buster		Dr. Larch? Dr. Larch?
muddy		You ever see a palm tree, Homer?
peaches		He ain't never been outta Maine!
hero		Ain't you sick of pine trees, Homer?
homer		Thanks, guys... I'd like to go with you. But I've got to move on.
muddy		Yeah, well... you could move on with *us*, man! You could move on somewhere *warm*!
peaches		Homer, stayin' in Maine ain't movin' on!
edna		"Then, in Thy mercy grant us a safe lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last."
homer		You know what? I did.
homer		It's from the ocean. It's for you.
buster		What are you doing here?
mary agnes		We made up a room for you.
angela		Wouldn't you be more comfortable by yourself?
edna		Homer, do you know what this is?
homer		Sure. It's my heart.
angela		 Actually, it's Fuzzy's. There's nothing wrong with your heart.
homer		Fuzzy's?!
edna		Dr. Larch wanted to keep you out of the war, Homer--that's why he did it. That's why he told you it was yours.
angela		I think he worried about his own heart. He said it would never stand up to Homer Wells going off to war.
homer		"Thus I began my new life, in a new name, and with everything new about me... I felt... like one in a dream... The remembrance of that life is fraught with so much... want of hope... Whether it lasted for a year, or more, or less, I do not know. I only know that it was, and ceased to be; and... there I leave it."
curly		What happens next?
homer		That's tomorrow, Curly. Let's mot give the story away.
homer		Good night, you Princes of Maine! You Kings of New England!
****Dialogues from script :Cincinnati_Kid.txt****

written by		 Ring Lardner Jr. and Terry Southern
dealer		Somebody shut the goddam window. Let a man think.
dealer		Possible straight gets a --  -- lovely little four.
first player		On the last hand even, you couldn't give me a break.
dealer		I put the brakes on your straight, didn't I?  There you are, son, a gorgeous deuce.
kid		Thanks.
dealer		 And our lucky friend from Chicago gets a queen with his pair of sixes. Little lady make you happy, Buster?
danny		Deal to yourself, clown.
dealer		Dealer gives himself a --  Bet your sixes, Buster.
danny		I told you not to call me that.  Ninety-four bucks.
dealer		Biggest pot of the whole game, I got to drop.
danny		 Interested?
first player		Wouldn't call you if I had a pair higher'n sixes. Which I ain't.
kid		Don't seem like he'd bet out without something better than the sixes, does it?  But I tell you, I got this stubborn streak. Call the ninety-four dollars.
danny		 You can't have better than a pair of kings!
kid		Oh, I'm not claiming anything that fine.  Just enough to beat the pair of sixes.
danny		You seen my hole card, you bastard!  He was dealing them high.
danny		You stole that dough.
kid		You better watch those loose lips of yours, you want to have any teeth left behind them -- Buster.
danny		You wouldn't of shelled out ninety- four bucks --
kid		I called you on account of I didn't think you had another pair or another six and I know a punk like you would get greedy and try and buy the last hand.
kid		Drop it.
hackie		What you looking for, mister?
lancey		Do I have to be looking for something?
hackie		I can pretty much tell.
lancey		You can pretty much tell what?
hackie		Some guys come to town, I can tell if they're looking for something.
lancey		What do you think I'm looking for?
hackie		If you're looking for girls, I can fix you up.
lancey		I strongly doubt if you could fix me up. In that department.
hackie		Well what are you looking for?
lancey		You're looking for a clout in the head if you don't keep your face to the road.
second hackie		Hey, you know who that is?
hackie		No. Who?
second hackie		 Shorty? Want to hear who just checked into the Park Sherman... Yes, you do. Lancey Hodges.
attendant		The Kid know?
bartender		Somebody sure as hell ought to tell The Kid.  Lancey Hodges is in town.
barber		You ask me, The Kid'll go after him as soon as he hears.
customer		Who's got a better right?
hoban		You going to tell The Kid, Shooter?
shooter		Hell, I can't not tell him.
hoban		It's where he's been headed for years.
kid		 Hey!
hoban		What you say, Kid?
kid		Hey, Hoban.
shooter		Where you been? Boys been holding a chair for you in back.
kid		Business opportunity come along. Something too good to pass up.
shooter		Turn a profit?
kid		Yeah, did okay. Except I almost had it took back.
hoban		Oh, one of those.
shooter		 You been in too many rough ones lately, Kid. You can't go on forever, coming out in one piece.
kid		I got to build my stake, Aren't enough chances in this town to let one go.
hoban		You're too good, that's your trouble. People who know you're the Cincinnati Kid, they don't want to sit down with you --
kid		For nickels and dimes... Thing is I've about used up St. Louis.
shooter		 The streets are getting full of guys you've hustled.
kid		Been thinking about Miami. There's nothing to keep me here.
shooter		 Lancey Hodges' in town.
kid		Yeah?  The Man himself, here in St. Louis -- I might just stick around Shooter.
lancey		 Mr. Schlaegel? How are you? And your enchanting wife?... Tomorrow is quite convenient... I generally prefer stud but you name it... Your stakes are my pleasure, sir... Thank you, why don't we make it after lunch? My diet these days is enough to spoil anyone else's appetite... A pleasure, sir. Please remember me to your charming wife.
shooter		 I been seeing it coming for a long time, Kid. Long time.
kid		I ain't exactly been hiding it.
shooter		No, you ain't been hiding it.
kid		Well I got to know.
shooter		Sure, you got to know. We all got to know.
kid		Sometime or other we got to find out how much juice we got.
shooter		That's why I had to tell you.
kid		You ever sit down with him?
shooter		Yes, I have.
kid		Well, what happened?
shooter		Nothing. Nothing at all.
kid		You lost.
shooter		I didn't lose. I'm too good to lose when I set my mind to it. I play poker a certain way, Kid. I've had my Lancey Hodges. Only with me it was Whistling Sam Magee to New Orleans.
kid		 I heard about him.
shooter		Well then you know it all... about 20 years ago it was, maybe more.
kid		What happened?
shooter		Why, I lost it. It dried me up on the inside for a long, a very long time.
kid		Yeah?
shooter		I been where I'm going, know what I mean?
kid		You think I'm ready?
shooter		 Kid, I don't think you're ready.
kid		 Oh.
shooter		But you're not going to take my word for it, are you? Are you now?
kid		No, I ain't. I can't.
shooter		I know, I know. You got to find out for yourself.
kid		I don't figure to take him right away. But if I can hang in there long enough, I can outlast him. If I can outlast him, I got a chance. You admit that, don't you, that I got a chance?
shooter		I already said I didn't think you were ready.
kid		Did you think you were ready when you sat down with Whistling Sam Magee?
shooter		Kid, I thought I was the best stud poker player in the world. I'm telling you now, I thought I was the best.
kid		Well, I don't think I'm just a cocky square with a fair hand with cards. I got something.
shooter		No, you ain't no cocky square. And you probably got something.
kid		Okay. And I ain't saying that you was either when you sat down with Whistling Sam Magee.
shooter		If you got the stuff, being a little cocky don't hurt you none.
kid		Well, would you say if I got any chance at all?
shooter		This much of a chance. If Lancey is not right. If he's got a cold, or his stomach ulcer is acting up, or something like that.
kid		But then everybody'd see he wasn't right and it wouldn't prove nothing. Listen, we got to have it understood. If he's not right, we call it off till he is.
shooter		You're set on a real showdown, aren't you? Your mind's all made up.
kid		I got to. You said yourself I got to. I'm overdue.
shooter		Yeah, you been around a long time -- I was a lot younger than you when I went up against Whistling Sam -- But you'd be kinda young too, to be The Man.
kid		I gotta find out.
shooter		 Want me to set it up?
kid		 I wish you would, Shooter Man.
shooter		All right.
kid		Hey, what if he turns me down?
shooter		He won't, the way I'll spread the word. He'll have to take you on, someone in your class. If he ducked it, that'd make you The Man.
kid		You think he knows I'm around?
shooter		He can smell meat like you a mile and a half up the river. He knows you're around and he'll sit down with you. You want to butt heads with The Man, I'll set it up.
shooter		There's your woman.
kid		I wouldn't want to wait around too long. I want to get in and get it over with.
shooter		He must of come to St. Louis for a big money game. I'll probably get asked do I want to deal it for them. And however long that takes, he'll have to rest up for you.
kid		Oh, well, if he's tooling a dollar, I can understand that. Sure.
shooter		You got much of a stake?
kid		Close to three grand.
shooter		Work on it. But three grand will give you a ride and even if you don't win, why you'll come away with a good idea of what you're made of. But once you go in Kid you can't quit. You get that straight right now. Two of you go in and only one of you can come out.
kid		Well, school's out. I damn sure don't want no lessons. I want everything he's got.
shooter		It's the only way to be, Kid.
shooter		See you.
christian		When we leaving town, Kid? This week?
kid		No, I won't be ready. Not for a while.
christian		I thought --
kid		Might even turn out we don't go.
christian		You must feel different about it than you did Saturday.
kid		Yeah, I'm feeling a little different. 
kid		It's all right. You don't have to act like a cat. You're not bothering me.
christian		You want me to turn out the light?
kid		No. I'm overtired, that's why I can't sleep.  Why can't you sleep?
christian		 Why don't you have a nice hot bath? I could give you a rubdown and then you could have a nice hot bath, and then maybe you could sleep.
kid		'Kay. Can't hurt to try it.
kid		What did you do with yourself this time?
christian		Last night I went to a movie with The Shooter's woman. French movie.
kid		In French?
christian		They had the words in English at the bottom of the picture. But The Shooter's woman knew what they were saying without it. Pig's woman or somebody told me she went to college.
kid		Sure. Majored in man-eating.
christian		I think maybe she really did go. But I never quite dared to up and ask her.
kid		I didn't know you ran with The Shooter's woman.
christian		We got to be kind of friendly when you both were in that three-day game down to Cairo. 'Course she's older'n me.
kid		And been around more. A lot more. What was the movie like?
christian		Weird. It wasn't a straight story where you knew whose side you were on, the way you do in regular pictures.
kid		American pictures.
christian		Yeah. There were lots of things I didn't understand.
kid		What was it about?
christian		Well, there's this town in Europe a long time ago where they get a message from a Spanish general he's coming to spend the night with his troops. So all the men are scared silly about what the soldiers will do to them.
kid		Nothing weird about that.
christian		But all the wives and daughters tell the men to go hide somewhere and let them bargain with the enemy.
kid		That don't make much sense.
christian		Wait. The way they handle it is they go to bed with the Spaniards. And the next morning the soldiers go off peacefully and everybody's happy.
kid		Including the husbands and fathers? Don't they suspect?
christian		That's part of what I wasn't sure of. I guess they know what went on but they care more about their safety and their money than they do about their honor.
kid		Then they got their heads screwed on straight. Honor's just an idea. You can't see or feel it and you can't eat it and you sure as hell can't get any mileage on it.
christian		I'll just turn off the bath water.
melba		 Shooter! Telephone! Shooter!
melba		Phone for you. I always seem to be the one to answer it, no matter who it's for.
shooter		 If you'd rather we put it in my room --
melba		Are you kidding?
shooter		 Hello?... Well, hello. What brings you to our fair city? Little action, maybe?
lancey		 How could you guess, Shooter? I was invited by a Mr. William Schlaegel --
shooter		 Owns most of the Schlaegel Brewery. Braumeister beer.
lancey		 Oh pretty much the same... Just have to be a little careful about smoking and drinking and eating -- and breathing. See you tomorrow. Good night.
melba		Wouldn't be much point wearing it in private. Sure, why not, as long as you don't have a bulge to hide?
christian		I don't know, Melba.
melba		 My guess is there isn't anything about you needs hiding. But I'll give you a more definitive opinion at the bath.
christian		 At the what?
melba		Turkish Bath. After we're through shopping. I'm treating you, Christian.
christian		I never been. I'm not even sure what you do.
melba		You don't do anything. That's what's so marvelous. They do it to you.
christian		The third time I stayed. Never went back to the boarding house except to pick up my things.
melba		And that side of it's held up? No complaints in the bed department?
christian		Well, just one.
melba		 Yes?
christian		The nights he isn't there.
melba		He really does that to you, does he? You got one of the rare ones.
christian		You find a guy, you love him, and that's it. It's supposed to just go on like that for life. Right?
melba		According to the propaganda, right.
christian		But it isn't my life, it's his life, with me tacked on. You have any idea what it's like to be a hash slinger in a cheap restaurant?
melba		No, honey, the stock crash wafted me right from the daisy chain into unmarried bliss.
christian		It's hell, if you'll excuse the word. But I didn't want to quit. The Kid made me. I felt I ought to hang on to something that was me away from him. You know what I mean?
melba		Sure. Some girls solve the problem by taking on an extra guy.
christian		I'm serious. Having children might take care of it, I don't know. Or -- this is really a terrible thing to admit.
melba		Your most sordid secrets are safe with me. Confess.
christian		If he was rich, or famous --
melba		Why don't you give him both?
christian		 Why not? Well, if he was rich and famous, maybe I wouldn't mind so much just being -- just a woman to him. Do you think that might make it seem more worthwhile somehow?
melba		Somehow! Are you sincere, sweetie?  Isn't this heaven?
christian		I'm not sure. In a way it seems soft of --
melba		Decadent? Depraved?
melba		Wicked?
christian		Well, yes.
melba		That's what I meant by heaven.
shooter		 Still queens -- possible flush -- no help -- possible flush.
lancey		Check.
lancey		And up two.
bill		Call the two thou.
lancey		 Queen high.
bill		 Jack high. Can you beat that?
bill		How the bloody hell did you figure out I didn't have the king or the ace?
lancey		I recollect a young fellow putting the same question to Eddie the Dude. It was a game in the grand lounge of the "J.M. White, Third," the largest paddle-wheeler ever built. "Son," Eddie told him, "All you paid was the looking price. Lessons are extra."  First time I heard of this Cincinnati Kid was in New Orleans, at Yeller's. I knew right away I'd have to play him someday.
shooter		You'll enjoy his game.
lancey		I may admire it. But if he's all that good, I doubt if I'll enjoy it.
shooter		The tougher the competition, the better you used to like it.
lancey		I've learned to take everything in moderation.
kid		 Have a drink with us?
melba		Better not. Shooter said they'd break at seven, and he has to have his food first, then his nap.  You know, there's a day in your life I'm looking forward to.
kid		In my life?
melba		The day The Kid becomes The Man.
christian		How'd you sleep Kid?
kid		I slept okay.
christian		I hope you don't mind my not being there when you woke up.
kid		No I don't mind --  What she was talking about, Shooter's woman -- I'm going up against a big game soon.
christian		She told me. It's a very big game, I hear.
kid		Yes.
christian		Will it be long?
kid		Why?  What's the matter?
christian		I thought --
kid		Thought what?
christian		I'd go home and see Mama.
kid		I wouldn't be able to spare you much change.
christian		Oh, I wouldn't want much. Bus is really the best way to go.
kid		Would a hundred fish do it? For the bus and something nice to bring your Mama?
christian		That would be fine, Kid. Just fine.
kid		When would you want to go?
christian		There's no reason for not going right now unless --
kid		Unless what?
christian		Unless you wanted to go to bed first.
kid		Do you want to? Would you like it?
christian		Un-huh. I'd like it.
kid		You want dessert?
christian		No. You?
kid		 Coffee?
christian		I don't need it.
kid		Neither do I.
kid		You still haven't said it.
christian		Said what?
kid		If you're coming back.
christian		Maybe I ought to stay with Mama and Papa a while, and see.
kid		What's to see?
christian		I never did like city streets.
kid		Oh.
christian		Uh-huh. The promise didn't fulfill itself for me.
kid		Promise?
christian		Come to the city and all. Electric lights and flush toilets. All the pretty dreams -- it was all promise.
kid		Oh, I see.
christian		I don't know if you do or not Kid -- You're city -- and I'm country -- You grew up with it.
kid		I don't think that's why you're going -- because you like it so much better in the country.
christian		What will you do?
kid		Well, I've got that big game.
christian		I heard he's The Man for you.
kid		Yes. If I won, there would be a lot of money.
christian		You'll win. You been coming on strong a long way. This is your time.  Come home with me to Mama's Kid.
kid		 I'm sorry.
christian		 I know you are honey -- I know it.
kid		I'll go down to the bus with you.
christian		You don't have to.
kid		 I'll go down with you.
christian		 Kid --
kid		Yeah?
christian		This is going to sound kind of funny to you, but I want to ask it.
kid		Sure.
christian		Do you think there's any chance, if you do win this big game, that you might do something else besides cards?  I don't mean never play poker. I just mean not have it be the only thing you do.
kid		Hell, it's the only thing I know how to do. What else is there for a guy never finished school? College graduates are walking the streets looking for jobs -- trained people, engineers, scientists!
christian		I realize --
kid		 When you're The Man, you don't have to hustle -- When you're The Man, The Best, the Big Money comes around on their knees just beggin' to hustle you. I'm not goin' to quit. I'm goin' to win.
christian		Yes, I can see that. Of course I didn't say quit.
kid		Well you see how it is.
christian		That's all right.
kid		 Christian, you aren't doing this to be off my back, in case I lose?
christian		I been thinking about it a long time. I been planning to go home and see how I felt about things.
kid		And this just helped you decide.
christian		That's all.
kid		Then don't go.
christian		 No, this is your time -- Now you go on Honey and you play The Man -- I'll be at Mama's.
kid		I wish it could be more.
christian		That's all right.
christian		I don't guess I'll ever forget these rooms, Kid.
kid		I don't guess I will either.
christian		You going to move?
kid		If I win, it won't be good enough. If I lose, I lose it all.
christian		Goodbye, Kid. Good luck.
kid		Goodbye, Christian.
bill		Four stacks? Right, Schooter?
shooter		Four.
bill		Thank you for the entertainment, gentlemen. My particular gratitude to you, Lancey. It's been a rare pleasure to watch a great artist at work. Thank you for the privilege.
lancey		Well now, son, you're quite welcome. Can't say I recall another man, in all my days on the three rivers, who seemed to find it quite so pleasurable losing all that money.
bill		Good day, gentlemen. You're welcome to use the premises as long as you like.
bill		I want to see you.
shooter		 Hi, Kid. Shooter here. Listen, I told the woman I'd take her to the ball park, but I'm still working. How about you and Christian take her out?
kid		 Christian's gone home to see her folks.
shooter		 Well listen, would you mind taking her yourself? The gang'll be there, in the section... Thanks. Appreciate it. See you.
sokal		 You owe me two fish on the out, plus three on the inning, minus two on no strikeouts so far.
hoban		Hiya, Kid. Getting yourself in shape for The Man?  Shooter still on the job?
hoban's woman		Where's Christian?
melba		 Lay off that.
pig		What'd she do, take off? So did mine. Don't lose no sweat, Kid, there's plenty more where they came from. All shapes and sizes.
kid		Hi, Hoban. Sokal. Pig.
hoban		 Boyer. One to two on the sacrifice.
sokal		Five to three, I'll give you. Two- fifty against one-fifty.
hoban		Mark it.
sokal		I figure they'll walk him. Fill up first.
kid		Not with who's coming up. I'll take the same odds.
melba		Get some of this sun.
sokal		 Mark it.
kid		 Guess I will.
hoban		Bunting, Sokal.
sokal		So they pitched to him. I still win.
pig		 Everybody been on the phone to everybody about coming to watch you and Lancey. Big Spriigi, Yeller to N'Orleans, Old Lady Fingers. They're all coming.
melba		 Let me give you some of this. Keep you from burning.
kid		I don't think --
melba		Can't hurt you.
hoban		 Chance to invest your profits. Bet you an even fin he make first.
sokal		 Who we got -- Warwick? You got yourself a bet, pal.
sokal's voice		Not your day, Hoban.  Hey, beer!
melba		 Mais tu es charmant --
melba		Charmant. Come here, please.
kid		Any special reason?
melba		Me. I'm special.
kid		Sure you are. You're The Shooter's woman.
melba		Right. And maybe I'll go on being The Shooter's Woman, even after you and I have had our little romp. What do you think about that?
kid		First place, Old Shooter'll come barging through that door any minute. He said they were winding it up.
melba		No barging. He doesn't have his key with him.  So we can treat ourselves to a little sample of things to come.
kid		Also it don't mean anything to you, you're Christian's friend?
melba		Honey, she lost her franchise the minute she got on that bus. You know that.  I have a shaky sense of security, Kid. Don't make me feel unwanted.
melba		No good?
kid		You know damn well how good it was. Where's a pack of cards?
melba		What do we need cards for?
kid		Gin or casino, you name it. All I know is we're switching to another indoor sport.
shooter		Lady Fingers'll want to come, I bet, and she's right on the edge of her stake. She could spell me dealing.
lancey		Sure, sure. Haven't seen the dear old bitch in fifteen years.
shooter		Well, that's it, then. Monday night, Room Three-Eleven at the Dorset Hotel. And may the best man win.
lancey		Yes, that's how it usually comes out in the long run. You think this boy is going to give me trouble, Shooter?
shooter		Yeah, he's going to give you trouble.
lancey		I don't want it to be one of those marathon games. Not any more.
shooter		Like the session with The Portugee at Jolly's in Omaha. Remember?
lancey		Sure, sure. Longest game I ever played though, I was a kid on my way to the Klondike gold rush. At Soapy Smith's in Skagway. Four nights and three days.
shooter		You win?
lancey		Depends how you look at it. When we wound up, the Yukon River had frozen over and you couldn't get through to Dawson City till the following June. Made myself a Hundred and fifty bucks and missed the gold rush.
shooter		You been around a long time.
lancey		That is undeniably true. But it doesn't mean I'm ready to retire. How old is this boy of yours?
shooter		Twenty-six, twenty-eight, something like that.
lancey		Well, now, makes me feel a whole lot better, knowing that. I was thirty- six when I sliced up Eddie the Dude. This Kid of yours is just going to have to wait a few years.
felix		Excuse me, Mr. Shooter, sir, but Mr. Schlaegel asked me to remind you how eager he was to see you.
shooter		I ought to call my woman.
felix		Yes, of course. They always like to know it if you're going to be late for supper.
melba		Still building eights.
kid		Thanks for putting it together for me.
melba		It's not my game.
melba		Want to know what is?
melba		 Hello -- Oh, hi, sugar -- why not?
melba		 What's the switch?
melba		 Whose idea was that?
melba		 He's not coming home now.
melba		 Whatever you say, Shooter man.
shooter		 Explain to The Kid, will you?
melba		 He'll understand.
shooter		 Tell him they decided to play a little longer, and I'll call him at his place later when the game's over... Right. Goodbye, honey.
kid		Listen, Melba --
melba		I have to tell you first. You're sitting down with Lancey next Monday night.
kid		I wish it was sooner. I wish it was tomorrow.
melba		Shooter'll give you all the details later.
kid		I don't like waiting that long.
melba		Let's not kick a gift horse in the teeth, sugar. We've got this time together. Let's try to "fill each unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run."
kid		Listen, what I was going to say before, I don't want you to think I'm being some kind of jerk or I don't feel you'd be great to sack up with.
melba		Then let's cut the filibuster.
kid		I've made dolls that were friends of mine's wives. I figured if they were willing, they were doing it to their husbands, I wasn't.
melba		Of course. Any other attitude, you're degrading the woman. You're not treating her as a person with a mind of her own, but as somebody's property.
kid		Only thing is, it's different with The Shooter than anybody else. He's so straight, I got the obligation to be straighter with him than other people. So do you. On account of we both owe him plenty.
melba		I thought we just agreed that what you and I did was strictly between us.
kid		Can't be.  Shooter's the closest thing to family I got. It's almost like he was my old man. Don't you see how that's got a bearing on us?
melba		Sure, it means I'm your mother.
bill		Shooter -- very generous of you to come on such short notice. Rosanna you know, and I think you've met my daughter June.  No point introducing you to William the Fourth. He has a bad memory for names.
shooter		 Mrs. Schlaegel. How are you, June. What's it all about, Bill?
bill		Little something I'd like to sound you out on. But the least I can do is offer you a drink.
rosanna		Like me to fix it, love?
bill		Wonderful. Why don't you do a batch of your Bloody Marys? If that's okay with you, Shooter?
shooter		Great. Whatever.
rosanna		Just don't let it get wet again.
bill		I've been quite busy on the telephone since I last saw you. There's a lot of interest all over the country in this game with Lancey and The Kid.
shooter		Betting interest?
bill		Jack Doyle in New York is giving twelve to five on Lancey. Same odds in Reno. I've taken fifty thousand of it so far.
shooter		Fifty thousand!
bill		I'll probably go for more but I didn't want to rock the odds.
shooter		I knew you liked The Kid's style but why you going in so deep?
bill		Two reasons. First, I want to see that smug old bastard gutted worse than he gutted me. Second, as long as that's going to happen, I don't see why I shouldn't make some money out of it.
shooter		But how can you be so sure? The Kid could do it, we both know that, but --
bill		"Could" isn't good enough for a man who hates to lose money as much as I do. He's going to need help -- from the best man with a pack of cards between Omaha and New Orleans.
shooter		Not a chance, Bill. You ought to know I never ever use what I got with the cards for nothing but tricks and dressing up a game.
bill		Sure, I know it. That's why you're the man they choose to give them a square deal. That's what makes it so perfect. Nobody'll be looking for it.
shooter		It's out. Out.
bill		The great thing is they'll be so close, The Kid won't need much. Three or four key hands.
shooter		Understand this, Bill. I'd like for The Kid to win, and I sure as hell don't want to see you lose all that money --
bill		If I did, I'd have to collect that twelve grand you owe me. Not myself. My collection agents. You knew poor Wildwood Jones, didn't you?
shooter		OK but I'm paying it off! It's comin' in ain't it? Six grand already.  Bill, you got to listen to me --!
bill		No, I don't. It's quite the other way around. You have some delusion you're a free agent, but you're not. I own you.
shooter		For God's sake --!
bill		Shut up. I'll cross the twelve off the books and give you ten thousand dollars in cash. And you can tell The Kid if he needs more of a stake, I'll put it up.  Marvelous. Here's Rosanna with what you need.
bill		-- for that dry feeling on the roof of your mouth. 
boy		Shine them up for you sir?
kid		No, thanks.
boy		Fetch you a newspaper maybe?
kid		No.
boy		How about a singy-song then? I play good.
kid		Play what?
boy		Dry corn in this one. Blue shale stone from the river in this one. You ready?
kid		Yes, I'm ready.
boy		 You ready?
bartender		Hell, I'm ready for anything.
kid		 Thank you very much. That was nice. Where did you learn to do that?
boy		I picked it up from Herman.
kid		Who is Herman?
boy		My friend I pick it up from.
kid		Is he a good friend?
boy		I don't know 'bout that suh. He just a frien' who teach me some things.
kid		Well, I don't want a shine, but here's fifteen cents.
boy		Thank you, sir.
bartender		And here's another dime for you, fella.
bartender		Nice little colored kid.
kid		 -- Yeah.
jansen		Monday night, uh, Kid?
kid		Monday night.
jansen		I sprung for some of the action. A yard and a half of that five-to-two.
kid		Thanks, Jansen.  Hey!
jansen		We got to get you loosened up. I never felt you this tight.
kid		 Just tell The Shooter I'll be there on the dot Monday night.
melba's voice		 And until then?
kid		He doesn't have to know.
melba		 I'm not asking for him.
christian		Hello, Kid.
kid		Can I help you with those?
christian		Taking if off is harder than taking it on in.
christian		How's The Shooter?
kid		Fine.
christian		You haven't played yet?
kid		Monday.
christian		This is Eric, Mama. He's come to see me.
christian		We lost suction on the pump right in the middle of canning.
christian		Spring beans, you have to cook them fast. But you find yourself some breakfast.
kid		I'm all right. Bus stopped for doughnuts and coffee.
christian		You can stay with us tonight and still make it back to St. Lou on the Sunday schedule by about midnight. I told Mama and Papa about The Man. And all.
kid		Where is Mr. Craigie?
kid		I think I will. I think I'd like that.  Okay?
christian		Sure. And I'll see you a little later on.  Papa don't know everything. About you and me.
craigie		Hello.
kid		How do you do, Mr. Craigie. I'm Eric Stoner.
craigie		Christian's Eric.
kid		That's right.
craigie		You seen her?
kid		She's helping her mother can.
craigie		You minding to marry Christian?
kid		You got any objections if I do, or if I don't?
craigie		Son, that's what I call a sharp answer.
kid		It was what I call a sharp question.
craigie		We don't know much about you, Christian's mother and me.
kid		I'm what's known as a three-river man. Which just means I go around playing stud poker wherever I can find the kind of action I'm looking for.
craigie		You met Christian when she was working to Hot Springs?
kid		Yeah. I was playing in this game in the hotel and she was a waitress in the coffee shop. We went out. I told her I thought she could get a better job in St. Louis.
craigie		Now how did you happen to tell her that? Maybe you run some kind of employment service on the side?
kid		I said it because I wanted her in St. Louis. Anyway, she made it there and she called me and we been seeing each other ever since.
craigie		Living together?
kid		Yeah, living together.
craigie		How come she come home now? She going to have a baby?
kid		Not that I know of.
craigie		You two have a fight?
kid		No.
craigie		She must have had a reason.
kid		Think so? Well, you've known her longer than me.  Look, Mr. Craigie, let me and Christian find out a few things then maybe I won't have to answer your questions.
craigie		I never run across anybody like you. I guess I don't understand gamblers.
kid		That's all right. I don't understand farmers.
craigie		You say things that sound smart alecky. But I'm not sure if they really are smart alecky.
kid		Well I can't take into account what somebody's going to feel every time I say something.
craigie		Are you a believer?
kid		In some things.
craigie		I mean in God.
kid		That's a tough one. I don't disbelieve in Him, but I couldn't say I believed in Him either. I guess I just never paid Him much mind. Didn't seem important.
craigie		God not important?
kid		I don't mean what He does isn't important -- if He exists. I mean it's not important to me whether He exists or not.
craigie		Christian was raised in a Christian home.
kid		Is that so? I didn't know ---  I'm not asking permission to marry Christian, you know.
craigie		I know.
kid		If I was, the only person I'd be asking it from is her.
craigie		 Who is this fella Christian says you're going to play that's so important?
kid		He's the king of the stud poker players.
craigie		And you're going to play him.
kid		Yes.
craigie		Are you any good?
kid		I'm this good. The Man has got to play me.
craigie		What happens if he don't?
kid		Then I'm The Man.
craigie		That important to you?
kid		I been trying to figure that out ever since I set it up.
craigie		You playing because of money?
kid		 Not really.
craigie		Christian said you never was much worried about money -- I been worried about money most of my life -- up until I figured out it wasn't so important.
kid		No, it's necessary, but it isn't so important.
craigie		Well how come you want to play this King fella?
kid		Ambition -- maybe security, like that.
craigie		Is it aspiration to be the King or just uncertainty about the future?
kid		I ain't looking for security if that's what you mean.
craigie		Not trying to lock something up tight and nail it down?
kid		That would figure into it. But that isn't all of it. -- It's important to me.
craigie		Now son which is more important to you, this king business or Christian?
kid		If you got the guts to ask that question, Mr. Craigie, I guess I got the guts to answer it. Christian, if you came right down to it, is not as important as doing what I have to do.
craigie		Well son, I had to know.
kid		Know what?
craigie		There never was a man worth a damn, to my mind, who let his woman stand in the way of the thing he had to do.  I got to go now -- see what I can do for a sick heifer. Why don't you take Christian, when her Mama lets go of her, and tell her I said you should go to the old spring. It's a good place.
kid		Thanks. I'll tell her.
christian		It stays warm all winter.
christian		Papa's mama used to bring her wash up here.
kid		We liable to draw an audience?
christian		Don't worry. It's on our land -- Nobody uses it.
christian		You must have said something to Papa gave him the picture on us in St. Lou. Else he never would have spoke to you about this place.
kid		I told him on account of he already knew. Never any sense feeding a man a lie he's not going to believe.
christian		Even if he did know, I'm glad you told him.
kid		 Hey, you're all wet!
christian		So are you, foolish.
craigie		Let me get this straight in my head. Cards is all a matter of luck, who gets dealt the best ones.
craigie		So when one of you professional gamblers sits down with a bunch of your -- what do you call them -- customers, clients?
kid		The technical term is "suckers." Or "marks."
craigie		Their chance of winning is just as good as yours, except if you got a way to control it, who gets what cards. Right?
kid		Not right. That's cheating and it's not any part of what we're talking about.
craigie		Then how do you win?
kid		I'll show you.
kid		You see one of these cards is white on both sides, one is red on both sides, and the other is white on one side, red on the other.
craigie		What about it?
kid		This. I put the three cards in a hat and shake them up, and then I ask you to draw one card out blind. Put it face down on the table so neither of us can see the bottom side.
kid		Okay, red on top. That eliminates the all-white card, right. So the card you've picked is one of two -- the all-red or the red-and-white. One out of two is an even chance, an even-money proposition. Right -- you follow me?
craigie		I think so.
kid		So if I said I'll bet you a dollar to seventy-five cents the other side of that card is red, you'd take the bet wouldn't you?
craigie		Seems like. Yeah.
kid		And that answer makes you a sucker. Because the odds are two to one, the other side of that card is red, and I ought to be offering you a dollar to fifty cents instead of seventy- five.
craigie		But if there are just the two possibilities.
kid		There are three possibilities.  That can be the red side of the red- and-white card, or it can be either side of the all-red card. In two cases out of three the other side is red. And I'd win the bet from you two out of every three times we made it.
craigie		 You would?
kid		Sure. It's obvious when I explain it, isn't it?
craigie		Reckon so. Except if there's only two things that the bottom side can be, red or white --
kid		Take my word for it -- the odds are two to one. And knowing that is the difference between your gambling man and your sucker. Not who gets the better cards but who knows what the proper odds are. In a poker game there can be a million different situations, each with a different set of odds to figure. The man who ends up winners is the man who knows when to bet and how much...
craigie		The sucker is still took advantage of, isn't he? The gambler knows something he don't know.
kid		Sure -- like if you grow better corn or raise a cow that gives more milk than the other guy's. Or two business men are in competition, or two lawyers are up against each other in a courtroom. Whatever your line is, the one who wins out is the one who knows his job better.
craigie		Seems like there should be something else to it --
kid		There is -- Making the man you're playing against think he's got the best hand -- and making him pay to find out. 
christian		I can't stay long. Papa'll be getting up to milk.
kid		I'm the one can't stay. I got to head for that bus.
christian		Why did you come, Kid?
kid		Well, hell, I don't know. I had kind of a rough time after you left.
christian		Rough how?
kid		Tuesday there was a ball game, but then the Cardinals went on the road. I never known time to drag so; I was all torn apart --
christian		Because of the poker game coming up?
kid		That's how I read it, but I was reading it wrong. It wasn't Lancey or the game that was chewing at my insides --
christian		What else is there could give you such a bad time?
kid		I finally figured it. I located where the trouble was. It was you.
christian		Oh, --
kid		When you talk about doing something besides poker if I get to be The Man, you don't mean pass up the chance to make some dough from it for a while?
christian		I sure don't. I told Papa, wherever money comes from, it feels the same when you spend it.
kid		You were going to do some thinking down here.
christian		I done some.
kid		I'll be back after the game Christian -- You wait here for me and I'll let you know.
christian		All right Eric -- Good luck Monday.
kid		I got that made now. You said it right. My time's come.
shooter		Twenty-five years I been building a reputation.
melba		Handle this thing right and your reputation will be better than ever.
shooter		I made up my mind to this. I ain't going to give him any help till he needs it.
melba		I'm glad you're taking a stand.
shooter		Hey, what if he starts off lucky and stays ahead of the game the whole way. It could happen, you know.
melba		You'll make it happen, Baby. I've got faith in you --
kid		Once more around the square.
lancey		It's a friendly town, St. Louis. I've always said that.
shooter		We ain't seen much of you though, last seven, eight years.
lancey		Climate, Shooter. In my declining years, I spend more and more time in Florida and the Gulf Coast.
lady fingers		Lot of folks been figuring another reason you was keeping clear of the three rivers.
lancey		What reason is that, Lady Fingers?
lady fingers		Cincinnati Kid.  That the way it is, Lancey? You been scared of The Kid?
lancey		Should I be scared of him?
lady fingers		Damn right you should! I'm telling you, that boy going to make your stomach ulcer bleed before the night is out. He's close to murder. I seen him give a fella the shakes so bad on a fourth card, it took a pint of corn liquor to settle him down.
lancey		Thanks for the warning.
melba		Mow the man down, sugar pie, make it quick and bloody. Been too many lean years for all of us.
kid		I intend to take Shooter right along with Lancey.
melba		I'm not talking about the old Shooter. He's been factory rebuilt. A new spirit dwelleth in him, and his gaze is on distant hills.
lady fingers		So you showed up after all. You're a braver boy than I thought, so much the worse for you.
kid		You think I'll be sorry I come?
lady fingers		Bound to. That Lancey ain't human, he's one of them barracuda fish. He's liable to bleed to death, right on a flush hand before he give up to you. I seen him gut a fella so bad, the fella quit and got up and spit red in the john and went square.
lancey		Hello, Kid. Pleasure to know you.
kid		Lancey. I been looking forward a long time.
lancey		Sure, sure. You seem to know about everybody. Yeller from New Orleans?
kid		What do you say, Yeller? Still feeling salty with me?
yeller		Forgiven long since.  We had a little jurisdictional dispute.
kid		I hustled a couple of boys, right in his territory.
yeller		So I tried to tell him our rules down there. Colored marks are for colored hustlers.
kid		And I tried to tell him how I got no prejudice. When I'm on the edge of my stake, I hustle anybody at all, regardless of race, creed or color. Anybody at all.
yeller		Including my girl.
kid		Hell, I figured I was doin' you a favor.
yeller		You did.
lady fingers		 Did you know Old Cottonhead died?
lancey		No, I hadn't heard.
lady fingers		Heart give out in a high-low game.
lancey		 How you feel, Kid?
kid		Great. You?
lancey		The best. You think maybe we ought to see if we can stir up some action?
kid		Whatever you say, Lancey. You're the --  You're our guest in this town.
lancey		Well, I'm kind of in the mood to play a little cards.
kid		I think we ought to be able to get a game together in this crowd.
lancey		But first you take a look at things -- make sure everything's the way you want it. I already been around.
kid		Thanks. I'll do that.
shooter		It's an old table. Everything's pretty old in this hotel.
kid		It's solid, that's what counts. And you got the top fixed perfect.
lancey		Light all right for you?
shooter		Two hundred watt bulb.
kid		Fine, excellent. Okay with you?
lancey		Sure, sure. Shooter's set us up just great.
kid		Sure has.
shooter		Thank you, gents. Tried to do the best I could.  Cards?
lancey		Why not?
kid		Good a time as any.
shooter		 You both know Joe Hoban. He's a draw poker man, but clean and straight as they come.
hoban		They come from the St. Louis Bridge Club, but they're poker size cards. They been bonded by the club steward and I seen him take them out of the safe. Shooter, Lady Fingers and me pick them up and come straight here with them.
shooter		Hoban's selling them to us at five dollars a pack, with the usual guarantee. If it's proved any deck is spooked, he pays off the losers.
lancey		St. Louis Bridge Club, eh? Steward still that old yard bird Okra?
hoban		 That's him.
lancey		 Old stud man, Okra.
kid		I don't know him.
lancey		Quite a character. Quite a character.
hoban		 Nobody heard from me what the cards were for, Kid.
lancey		 Been ten years since I seen or spoke to Old Okra.
kid		'Kay, fine. Don't worry about it, Lancey. Who's sitting down with us, Shooter?
shooter		Four of us. Me, Pig, Yeller and Doc Sokal. If that's all right with you both?
kid		'Kay, fine.
lancey		Sure, sure.  Shall we have a look at the decks?
lancey		Well, Kid, what's your game?
kid		I don't mind stud poker if that's okay with you.
lancey		I got no objections to stud.  Gentlemen?
bill		Tell The Kid I have a suite on the fifth floor. He can drop up during the breaks. Bedroom all for him any time he wants a nap.
shooter		That's thoughtful of you, Bill.
bill		I'm a thoughtful man. I hope you are.
lancey		Privilege of age. Can't take the glare of the morning sun in my eyes.
shooter		You want to have the usual brandy and coffee on hand, Kid? Anything special for you, Lancey?
lancey		Why, yes, Shooter. Creme de menthe frappe. Green.
shooter		 Gentlemen, if there are no objections, I'm the dealer. These rooms have been contracted for, and there will be an ante of ten dollars per chair, per day. During the breaks for me, Old Lady Fingers has agreed to deal, but she don't care to be a player --
lady fingers		Can't afford to play, that's the real truth. Had a bad year and I'm way over my edge.
shooter		Lady Fingers will get three dollars an hour from the ante, plus her room and food, and a five-minute break every hour. Gents?
lancey		Fine, Shooter man.
kid		'Kay with us.
lady fingers		If you don't see me when you need me, call room three-oh-eight.  You know who else ain't with us no more? Miriam, widow used to run the kitchen game to South Chi. Lost two month's Relief at blackjack, coal dealer cut her credit, and she froze in her bed.
shooter		Gentlemen, this is a game of five- card stud poker. There is no limit. A dead man has one half hour to raise his roll outside and get back in the game.
lancey		Five grand? Nice, tidy sum. I'll put out the same.
yeller		I swear I don't know what I'm doing sitting down with you titans, but maybe it's worth putting up five thousand for the educational value.
pig		I'll play with what I have in my pocket till I have to send out for more. Twenty-seven, twenty-eight hundred, I don't know.
sokal		Five G's, I'm with it. Don't mean I'm goin' blow it all, though.
shooter		Last and certainly least --
shooter		Seven, nine, trey, nine, ace, and The Shooter guns up a ten. Ace bets.
lancey		Ten dollars.
shooter		Dealer folds.
sokal		Call the sawbuck.
kid		I'm in.
pig's voice		Call.
yeller's voice		Call.
shooter		King to the seven, pair of nines, deuce to the trey, queen-nine, ace- eight.
kid		Nines bet twenty bucks.
shooter		Queen, ten, king, four, ace again, and a king for The Shooter.
lancey		Ace bets ten dollars
shooter		King over.
hoban		Shooter won't stay on a king or an ace if there's another one showing.
bill		What's he have to have in the hole?
hoban		Ten or better. With no other ten showing.
lancey		New deck.
pig		Aces over eights.  Be a laugh if the two champs ended up cleaned.
bill		Any action?
hoban		 What do you expect first five or six hours?
bill		Still feeling each other out?
hoban		Pig's ahead about a grand, Shooter maybe three hundred. 
shooter's voice		King bets.
yeller		King says twenty.
pig		In for twenty.
shooter		 To the nine a ten, to the queen a seven, to the king a jack, and to the jack a jack.
lancey		Pair of jacks will venture a hundred dollars.
sokal		 I'm in.
pig		 Up two hundred dollars.
yeller		 Leave it to the rich folk.
bill		Lancey could be laying for him with three jacks.
hoban		Pig don't think so.
sokal		I'm sticking.
shooter		Possible straight flush, pair of sevens. Pair of jacks are still high.
lancey		Check to the sevens.
sokal		Likewise.
pig		 Bet the size of the pot. Nine hundred and eighty dollars.
lancey		In for nine eighty.
sokal		I'll play.
bill		What's with Lancey? I thought he'd raise with three jacks or drop with two pair.
hoban		He probably thinks Pig's faking the queens. Anyhow, Doc's liable take them both with a straight or a flush.
shooter		Busted, no flush, no straight. Pair of sevens with a queen gets a nine. To the pair of jacks, a trey.
pig		 Pair of sevens will bet whatever I got here. Twenty-four hundred bucks.
lancey		I'll call your twenty-four hundred --
lancey		Comes to fourteen hundred fifty dollars, Pig. Don't imagine you'll have any problem promoting that much in half an hour -- plus whatever you care to raise me.
shooter		Fourteen fifty to the queens. You want to take your half hour, Pig?
pig		No, I'm out. Out of the game.
shooter		 You Tap City?
pig		I got a woman.
shooter		I thought you and Hilda were quits.
pig		We're back.
shooter		See you around, Pig.
players		 So long, Pig -- See you -- 'Night.
pig		 So long.
pig		Good luck -- Kid.
shooter		He shouldn't have said that. Not after taking Tap City from the table.
kid		His woman's been giving him a rough time. Wants him to quit and go square.
sokal		At his age? Crazy.
lancey		He wants to wish anybody luck, doesn't bother me. Personally, I don't figure The Kid needs it.
kid		Thanks, Lancey.
shooter		I know it's early, men, but what about taking a little break?
bill		 It always distresses me, a man reaching his middle years and still having no assurance of next week's income.
melba		I know what you mean. I like a man to have plenty of assurance.
lady fingers		Spider Man died kind of slow. First he give them a kidney, then his gall bladder, and then they taking his whole damn stomach. You remember Spider Man, run the dice table down at Turk's Club to Memphis.
lancey		Who? Oh, Spider Man, sure, sure.
lady fingers		He died kind of slow.
shooter		Need your help, Lady Fingers... to make arrangements for food and shelter.
lancey		Good crowd.
kid		Yeah. Nice-looking broads.
lancey		That's a fact.
kid		That was a pretty thing to watch what you done to Pig with those jacks.
lancey		Thanks, Kid. From you, that's nice to hear.
kid		When he bet out first, he was ready to think you had them back to back. Even when he bet the size of the pot, he figured there was still a chance you were laying for him. But when you called him, I could see it in his eyes he thought you had jacks and tens, and I knew you had him hooked.
lancey		You knew, did you? Before I raised?
kid		Oh, sure, I seen what you were pulling all along.
lancey		You been to Miami, Kid?
kid		Not yet.
lancey		Beautiful town, lot of loose money around. You ought to come down some time.
kid		You mean it?
lancey		Sure, sure. Lot of room down there. Another spot you ought to work someday is Reno, Nevada.
kid		I heard.
lancey		You got to have nerves though. So much going on. Action everywhere you turn. You lose the feel of the cards when you're in so much action day in, day out.
kid		I'd like to make it out there.
lancey		There's different levels of action there -- you'd find yours, any kind you could ask for.
kid		I generally stick to stud.
lancey		Sure, sure, for eating money. But you know how it is, I like to lay off once in a while and try craps. Nothing serious -- I don't even think of it as work.
kid		Oh, I do that. I'll take a night off and shoot a little casino. Or even blackjack.
lancey		Your age, you don't need a regular vacation every year. But me, I have to forget the grind for a couple of weeks. I go to this place near Delray Beach, and the whole time I don't play anything but bridge.
kid		That's interesting. I could go for bridge if there was a way to do it without partners.
lancey		I'm not keeping you from your woman, am I?
kid		 No. We're -- she's gone away for a while. We're not sure we're looking for the same thing.
lancey		I'm sorry to hear that.
kid		I was hoping Christian would run with me and wouldn't try to make a big deal out of it.
lancey		But she tried?
kid		Yeah, and now I don't know. I don't figure a man can change his way because the way I see it a man's lucky he's got something going for him that he can hold on to. A man can't change his way for a woman.
lancey		Nooo, a man can't do that.
kid		I been wondering if it isn't maybe a better idea not to look for a fixed thing. Just tie in to something nice when you're away from the action, and enjoy it, and let it wear itself out.
lancey		 That's very interesting you should say that. You're pretty young to have figured things out already.
kid		Well she didn't understand how it was with me and ---
lancey		 Between us?
kid		There ain't but a few people, I guess who would understand --
lancey		 Kid, you're the best stud man I've seen in 35 years of action. You know that?
kid		Well -- thank you.
lancey		And when it comes to broads, which is getting to be an academic problem -- I can look back now to the two or three I ever considered I might want to spend the rest of my life with, and you know what? I like it... looking back on them, that is --  I always got a lot of companionship out of a good book.
kid		It's very educational, hearing what it's like for a man your age.
lancey		Glad to be of help. And it's good we had this little talk so I know we can be friends regardless what happens.
kid		That sounds good to me. I didn't think you was coming in at me like a grudge match.
lancey		No room for any kind of emotion in a fair game of stud. I learned that a long time ago.
lady fingers		It's a whole New Deal. Good hands all around. Prosperity for everybody.
lancey		You're still good, Fingers.
lady fingers		Getting crippled up, Lancey. Not many of the old gang left. You heard Whistling Sam was gone?
lancey		No, I didn't hear.
lady fingers		I was the one got called to the morgue to identify him. I don't suppose you seen anybody been run over by a twelve- ton bulldozer.
lancey		No, can't say that I have.
lady fingers		Don't go out of your way.
shooter		Bet the pot. Four hundred and twenty dollars.
sokal		Fold.
kid		It's yours.
shooter		Thanks, gents. Makes me exactly even. This kind of a game, that's a smart place to quit.  Just do the dealing, if that's all right with everybody.
shooter		Ace-king is the high man.
sokal		Shoot the works.  Nine hundred and thirty bucks.
yeller		I'm over.
lancey		 What have you got?
sokal		 Doesn't matter. If you can call me, you beat me. Ace-king high.
lancey		 Ace-king-queen high.
yeller		 I had them both with a pair of fives.
sokal		Winds it up for me, men. And I can't say it's been a pleasure.  That one I was sure I could steal.
yeller		Lancey has a built-in burglar alarm. I'm also withdrawing from the field of battle, gentlemen. Settle for the seventeen hundred I've already dropped.
lancey		 Well, just the two of us.
kid		Yeah, just the two of us. Deal them, Shooter Man.
kid		Cost you a grand.
lancey		Compulsory call, Kid.
lancey		Two pair, jacks up.
kid		Kings up.
lancey		Two thousand dollars.
kid		Call two thousand.
kid		Take it. I can't beat three sevens.  I'd like a break to get some food and sleep -- I'm winners so it isn't up to me to say it but I'm saying it anyway.
lancey		 My dear, that young man is a stud poker-playing son-of-a-bitch.
lady fingers		Gettin' to you, Lancey?
lancey		 Not yet he isn't.
the kid		Now, just what the hell are you trying to pull?
shooter		 Nothing -- what are you talking about?
the kid		You, Shooter Man -- you been feeding me cards for an hour.
shooter		 Christ, Kid, even if I was you couldn't spot it -- I'm too good a mechanic for anybody to spot it.
the kid		 But I was looking for it, Shooter -- four times you give me the cards I need.
shooter		 You seen it before often enough. One player draws four good ones.
the kid		Never in a game when I been told ahead the dealer has a stake in my coming out on top.
shooter		 My woman told you.
the kid		She told me enough to make me start thinking.
shooter		 Why should you bitch if I give you a little help?
the kid		Why, you dumb bastard? -- You have to ask me why.  I could break you apart for what you've done.
shooter		 Kid, you got to understand. It wasn't my idea --
the kid		Well who the hell's was it then -- Schlaegel? --
shooter		He's got the squeeze on me Kid and he's meaner than hell. He'll cut me up if I don't come through.  You think I wanted to deal a phony game? You think it don't mean something to me? I never done a crooked thing before in my life.
the kid		My ass bleeds for you -- Now you get straight on this. No fix. You come along straight or I blow it wide open.
shooter		He's liable to kill me.
the kid		He ain't goin' to do nothin' to you except pay off because I'm goin' to win.
shooter		It is a hell of a chance to take.
the kid		You got no choice.
shooter		He ain't goin' to like it.
the kid		 Shooter, I'm goin' to win this one -- win it my way -- and you ride with me or you're out, finished.
shooter		I ride with you.
the kid		You better not forget it -- now beat it. I need some sleep.
the kid		Tell Mr. Schlaegel I accept his offer to use the room.
the kid		 I want to be called at 4 p.m. on the nose. For sure -- Thanks.
lancey		Not yet he isn't. But he damn well might.
melba		Good afternoon, sir. It's exactly four o'clock.
melba		It's really only about twenty-five to four. You can stay right where you are.
the kid		I don't want you to think I'm getting too personal, but you mind telling me how the hell you come to be here?
melba		You mean you don't remember last night? We drank all that champagne and you said "Let's get married right away," and we chartered a plane to --
the kid		Can it --  Where's Shooter?
melba		I locked the door. It's incredible the way you invariably worry about The Shooter.
the kid		It's incredible the way you invariably don't.
melba		Worrying takes time and we don't have a lot.
the kid		We're supposed to sit down again at half past four.
melba		Does it really matter so much to you now, that sense of obligation to The Shooter?
the kid		 Or to you.
melba		Obligations are not what I have in mind.
the kid		Reach me a towel?
melba		You any idea how much The Shooter has involved in this game of yours?
the kid		If Schlaegel bet as much on me as I heard, I guess he'd pay a nice piece of change to be sure I won.
melba		It's worse than that. Schlaegel staked him for three years. He has his hooks so deep in Shooter Man, he'll take out his liver when he pulls them out.
the kid		You asking me to go along with the fix?
melba		I'm asking you to consider whether your ego is worth destroying another man's whole life.
the kid		You're still working for him. On my time you're still working for him.
melba		What kind of switch is this? You criticize me for trying to chippie on him, then I get a little loyal and you're at me for that.
the kid		No -- I don't hold it against you. You wanting to make things right for him -- but this game I handle my way -- win, lose, or draw.
melba		Rolls and coffee for the hard-headed hero.
melba		Believe me Kid there is too much at stake for us to rely on your doing it on your own.
christian		Hello, Kid. Hello, Melba.  You said wait home 'til you let me know.
the kid		Yeah, that's what I said. We took a break in the game to catch some sleep. Shooter sent his woman up here to wake me up.
melba		Yeah, I woke him up.
christian		It don't take much.
melba		No, I didn't find it any trouble.  You, too, honey, right?
christian		I'll be around if The Kid wants me.
the kid		See you, Melba. Thanks.
melba		Por nada, as they say. It was nothing.
the kid		You been to the place?
christian		No, I've got my bag downstairs. Maybe I'll take it over later on tonight.
the kid		How's your Mama and Papa?
christian		Fine. How's the game going?
the kid		It's come to be just me and Lancey.
christian		 I was wondering.
the kid		I got my mind on the cards.
christian		I know. And I don't want to rattle you. We got plenty to talk about, but it can all wait. Except I want to say this. I came back because I figured if it was going to work with us, it's silly me sitting home with Mama while you're playing your big game. I mean if I'm any use to you at all, this is when it's most important.
the kid		I'm glad you came, Christian. You got as much right here as anybody.  More right, I should have said.
christian		Should you?
the kid		Hell, yes. The change I come out with when I win this one, you're going to be the one to spend it.
christian		Eric --
the kid		 Look, I said I'm glad you came -- and that's all until I wrap this up -- I'm a poker player, remember?
the kid		The eight'll try two bills.
lancey		 No stay.
the kid		Two hundred.
lancey		 No stay.
yeller		Anything?
hoban		Naaa, Kid paired kings. He wins a hundred.
lancey		Queen bets another C-note.
the kid		 Take it away.
the kid		Go read a magazine, honey.
lady fingers		I break.
the kid		I don't want a break.
lancey		Well, I don't either.
the kid		Deal.
lancey		 Same deck is good enough.
the kid		I want a new deck.
lancey		Alright, alright -- A new deck then, Jesus.
the kid		Deal.
lady fingers		You want to deal? Then deal them yourselves. I'm going to the john. I'm going to get something to eat, and I'm going to take a nap. You barracudas can snap all you want but at each other -- I'm taking a break and if you don't like it you can both go to hell.
the kid		I guess we been told.
lancey		Looks that way.
the kid		 See you in about 3/4 of an hour, Lancey, right?
lancey		Make it an hour. Old bones need a little more time to loosen up.
the kid		 Listen, I think it is amazing you've been able to keep going this long.
christian		 Eric --
shooter		 Your fan on the fifth floor wants you to have a bite with him. Alone.
kid		There's nothing to talk about.
shooter		You better, Kid. You don't, you're only making worse trouble.
the kid		If you think so.  Sorry.
christian		What's wrong?
the kid		Nothing, Nothing you have to worry about. I'll see you later.
the kid		Get something to eat.
bill		I thought it would be better if you and I sat down together to see if we couldn't work out our differences. Felix!
the kid		What I told The Shooter goes.
bill		Are you saying no before we've even discussed it? Am I to feel all my arguments will be wasted?
bill		I'll skip to the final argument.  More salad, perhaps?
bill		The Shooter will be back dealing when you start again. He will give you an occasional helpful card.
the kid		That's an argument?
bill		That's a fact. I'm coming to the argument.
the kid		I'll give you a fact. I won't let it happen.
bill		Is that knife sharp enough? Felix.
bill		See if it cuts better with that.
bill		Sharp?
the kid		Very. But it don't cut any ice with me.
the kid		 Not this time. He exits.
the kid		Did you eat?
christian		No.
the kid		 Why not, for Chris sakes?
christian		Eric --
the kid		 You should eat something.
christian		 I've got to talk to you.
the kid		Talk.
christian		 It's -- about us. What's going to happen?
the kid		 You go back to the apartment, honey, this might take two more days.
christian		 If I go, I'm not going back to the apartment. If I go -- I'm just going.
the kid		 Well, that's up to you, Christian.
the kid		I told you, Shooter -- I won't go for it.
lancey		What's up?
the kid		The Shooter's not well. He didn't want to spoil the game, but he ought to be resting... He ought to be in the hospital.
lancey		Well, we got Lady Fingers. Or we can deal ourselves.
shooter		I'm okay. What The Kid's talking about is nothing. It's just not important.
the kid		It is to me... You want to kill yourself, do it on your own time.
lancey		I got to go along with that, Shooter. Lady Fingers! You ready?
lady fingers		Like Eddie the Dude said on his deathbed, I'm as ready as I'll ever be.
lancey		I can't persuade myself you have the flush.
lancey		Now I can.
the kid		Pair of eights bets an even thousand dollars.
yeller		Ten bucks and my notoriously fallible instinct tells me the boy is bluffing this time.
hoban		Mark it.
lancey		 I'm not that curious.
hoban		 The Kid is pushing it and making it stick.
shooter		 He's getting to him.
lancey		Two hundred.
the kid		And up five.
lancey		Fold.
lancey		Betting the jack isn't there, Kid.
shooter		We're in -- I think he's got him.
lady fingers		A jack and a ten. Jack bets.
lancey		Jack is willing to wager two hundred dollars.
the kid		And up five hundred.
lancey		Call your five hundred and five hundred more.
the kid		 Call.
hoban		Fifty to one hundred says Lancey paired his jacks.
yeller		Mark it.
lady fingers		Pair of tens. Jack, ten of hearts.
the kid		Five hundred.
lancey		Your five hundred -- and up one thousand.
hoban		Fifty to seventy-five he's got the jacks wired.
yeller		Mark it -- Could be a high heart. Queen's the best, but that old man can be cocky with an ace or a deuce. 'Specially having one of The Kid's tens.
lady fingers		One thousand to the tens.
the kid		Call.
lady fingers		 A third ten, and a nine of hearts to the ten, jack.
hoban		He'll run. He's beat on the board anyway you look at it. Even if he has the jacks it is better than eight to one against improving.
yeller		He won't run and I don't think he's got the jacks. I think he's going for the flush.
the kid		 Two thousand, five hundred dollars.
lady fingers		 Two thousand, five hundred dollars to the three hearts.
lancey		 Deal them.
shooter		 He's going for it and The Kid's got him. He's going all the way.
lady fingers		 And an eight of hearts to the possible flush. Possible straight flush. Three tens bet.
hoban		If The Kid bets into the flush he's filled up with a queen in the hole.
yeller		If The Man has a flush or a straight, he goes under.  But not with both.
the kid		Bet what's in front of me. Make it fifty-four hundred bucks.
lancey		Fifty-four hundred bucks is a nice piece of money.  I see the bet and raise sixty-seven hundred.
bill		Kid has him, doesn't he?
kid		 I'm taking my half hour to raise my stake.
lady fingers		I declare a thirty-minute break. Leave your cards and money on the table. The game will start again at five forty-five.
lancey		I'll take your marker, Kid.
kid		I can raise it.
lancey		I know you can.
kid		Long as you know.  -- Call.
lancey		 Straight flush to the jack -- That's $6700 you owe me, Kid.
lancey		New deck.
lady fingers		Are you playing, Kid? You got a half an hour to raise your stake.
kid		No -- I'm through.
lady fingers		 Gentlemen, this game is over.
lancey		You're one hell of a poker player, Kid. That was a rough hand.
kid		Thanks.
lancey		What's the tab for the whole show?
melba		You had to do it, didn't you -- you had to go for it your own way.  Well, sonny, I hope you learned something. I know we sure as hell did.
kid		Where's Christian?
melba		She's gone. She's got too much sense to stick with a two bit loser.
shooter		Shut up.  Sorry, Kid.
kid		Yeah.  I should have known he had it, Shooter Man. I walked into it.
shooter		 Well, Kid, it's like I said -- you just wasn't ready.
bill		 Are you ready, Shooter Man? We're having a meeting and I suggest you join us.
melba		Why me -- I'm not part of this.
shooter		 Oh, yes you are -- you and your big mouth -- you're part of it all right.
schlaegel		He's right, my dear. Now run along with Felix. We're going to have a long talk about that big mouth of yours.
schlaegel		I was wrong. I figured you for brains. But you're a loser, Kid. You had a chance to play with grownups and you ran.  They weren't playing your game. They were playing mine. Think about that while you find a place to hide. But hide good, Kid -- because I got a message for you and I'm going to see it delivered.
the kid		Any time.
lady fingers		Never thought I'd see the day. You raising tens on a lousy three-flush.
lancey		Gets down to what it's all about, doesn't it? Making the wrong play at the right time.
the kid		 You were crazy -- odds are three hundred to one against.
lancey		 You're good. But as long as I'm around, you're second best, Kid... and you might as well learn to live with it.
lancey		Look me up if you're in Miami after Christmas. Stillson Hotel.
danny		So it ain't Eric Stone, from the foundry. It's the Cincinnati Kid King of the stud poker players.
the kid		No -- not the King -- not much of anything right now.
danny		 We'll start with giving you back what you gave me.
danny		 Tell her good-bye, sport. You ain't going any place.
the kid		I know that.
christian		Are you all right?
the kid		I'm fine.  Weren't you going to say good-bye?
christian		I said good-bye.
the kid		Yeah, I guess you did.  You don't know if I won or lost do you?
christian		No -- it doesn't really matter.  I love you, Kid -- and it's not enough.
the kid		Yeah, I know.
taxi driver		 Listen, Lady, it's coming on the morning rush. I got to have one fare after another or I'm behind for the day.
****Dialogues from script :Cinema_Paradiso.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cirque_du_Freak__The_Vampire_s_Assistant.txt****

darren's voice		Come on... Just a little lower... WIDEN TO REVEAL a Middle School TOILET STALL. Standing on the lid of the closed toilet, holding the glass jar up over his head, is DARREN SHAN. Darren is 14 and a well-liked kid. Tenacious. Diligent. The spider just hangs there.
darren		Come on... I'll take good care of you. All the bugs you can eat.
steve		Hey, Darren! No answer. Steve walks along the stall, scoots low so he can see any feet in front of the bowls.
steve		Did you fall in? Darren!
darren's voice		Shhh... Steve looks to the last stall, sees the jar being held up. INTERCUT from in and outside of the stall.
darren		You're gonna scare him away.
steve		Man, we're getting killed out there. It's three to nothing. Darren is all concentration as the spider drops a little.
darren		Your problem, Steve, not mine... Steve gets a waggish idea. Stepping to the sink, pressing his forefinger over the spigot, he turns the faucet. WATER SHOOTS out in a stream, which Steve directs into and then over the stall door. Reacting, the spider zips up its thread, is lost in the darkened ceiling. The stall door opens. Dripping water, Darren stares at Steve who flashes a wicked grin...
steve		GOAL! Three to one! The other team regroups, starts back upfield with the ball. Darren steals it. A few strides and WHUMP! Darren catches the goalie too far out. The ball lofts just over the backpedaling goalie's head, bounces into the goal.
steve		What does that prove? Huh? The goalie blanches as Steve moves at him. Kids are nervous about Steve. He likes to fight. Darren gets between them.
darren		Go get the ball. It's 3 to 2. Lunch's almost over.
steve		That's why he kicked it. To kill time. Well, I still got time to kick your face.
goalie		Thanks, Darren. He's crazy. Darren watches after Steve. He does have a vicious streak.
the street		Steve tracks down the ball which has rolled into the street. From seemingly out of nowhere... A gleaming black 1966 LINCOLN Continental. Its tires sucking at the asphalt as it rolls. The windows blacked out. It speeds up reaching the ball. Ba-Dump! The ball BURSTS.
steve		You idiot! The car SCREECHES to a stop, idles ominously. Suddenly Steve doesn't seem so tough. He looks nervously back to Darren. But as a WIND picks up, the Lincoln suddenly tears off. A sheet of PAPER is kicked up by one of the car tires. The wind sends it sailing. It drifts down, until... Steve notices, snatches it out of the air. Darren steps up beside him, watches the Lincoln disappear down the street. Creepy...
steve		Look at this. The paper is a FLYER. A startling, violent layout. Beneath a snarling WOLF'S HEAD: CIROUE DU FREAK - Human oddities and other living curiosities. Midnight. Zeiterion Theater. $20 - Admission is at the discretion of the proprietor.
steve		.Human oddities and other living curiosities...
darren		A freak show. Ever been to one?
darren		Must be a different one. Steve scrolls down through pictures:
steve		I gotta show you something...
darren		I don't get it.
steve		Vampires. I've been studying them. Vampires? Darren looks at him a beat.
darren		Right. You're failing half your classes at school, but you're studying vampires.
steve		They been around 1000's of years. Two tribes. They even fight wars.
darren		What? When?
steve		Okay, sometimes, when humans fight? They fight at the same time. And no one knows it. Like at the Battle of Stalingrad they fought at the same time the Russians and Germans were fighting. Darren just looks at him, wonders if he's serious.
steve		Some people know about it. There have even been books written. He pulls a frayed old yellow hardcover from his bag.
darren		That's your proof? It smells. Steve's really trying to convince him now.
steve		It's everywhere if you look. On the internet, in blogs, newspapers, weird places. But you can find it. The room starts to tighten a notch around them.
steve		I chatted online with one of them.
darren		Come on.
steve		Serious. We become aware of...
darren		What was his name? Mr. Dracula? Mad now, Steve opens the book, flips pages, finds an old 19th Century painting. He slaps down the science lab internet print-out of Larten Crepsley. It's the same guy! Maybe...
steve		Here he is in 1923. And here 1855. Huh? Maybe he'll be there tonight. Would that make you believe? As Darren looks them over, the POV looms up behind them. Suddenly Darren spins... And ROARS at what's behind them: his sister Annie. She SCREAMS in response. Steve jumps a mile. Darren LAUGHS.
annie		How'd you know?
darren		Saw your shadow on the floor. Gotta try harder, knucklehead. Steve snaps his book shut, shoves it in his backpack.
steve		I'm gonna get a soda.
darren		Get me one, too. Steve gets up, stomps out of the room.
mom		I know you want to fight global warming, Darren, but that's not the way to do it. Steve leans back to show his face.
steve		Sorry, Mrs. Shan.
mom		Oh hi, Steve. I thought you were, Darren.
steve		I wish I was.
mom		Help yourself. She sets her PURSE down on the counter.
mom		How's your mother?
steve		She's okay... She's been working a lot lately. A little frown of concern crosses Darren's mom. Something about Steve... His mom... He brings out a bottle of soda.
steve		I know. Darren's mom exits as Steve pulls down two glasses, starts to pour soda. As he waits for the foam to settle, he sees... The purse. Just there. A quick look around, it doesn't take him long to decide. Steve steps over, opens the purse. A quick rifling finds a wallet: $200 in $20's. He peels off three bills, shoves them in his pocket. BLLEEEP! A cell phone starts going off in the purse. Fumbling, frantic, Steve stuffs the rest of the money back in the wallet, the wallet back in the purse, closes the purse -- Darren's Mom is back in. She's hurrying to get to her celiphone, so...
darren's room		Darren's looking through Steve's vampire memorabilia. Steve reaches past, starts packing it up.
steve		I gotta go. See ya tonight.
darren		Huh? Tonight where? He zips the bag, slings it over his shoulder.
steve		Cirque du Freak.
darren		I got no money right now.
steve		Don't sweat it. I got money. Meet me ten to Midnight. The Zeiterion Theater.
darren		That place is supposed to be haunted. Steve rolls his eyes, starts out...
darren		What am I going to tell my parents?
steve		Tell them you're sleeping over. We can meet early, walk over together.
darren		I don't know, man...
steve		D, it's Cirque du Freak. You wanna hear about it Monday? Or see it tonight? Steve lets his point sink in, then goes.
annie		And that's why we need a dog. She waits for an answer. Mom and Dad exchange a look.
dad		We'll have to think about it.
annie		How do you guys decide who's going to say no when you look at each other.
dad		Whoever's eyes are the widest. And I didn't say no. Yet. As she tries to think through a new approach...
darren		Mom? I'm gonna sleep over Steve's tonight? Okay?
mom		 No.
darren		What? Why not?
mom		Because I said so, Darren.
darren		I'm fourteen. I shouldn't even have to ask stuff like this.
mom		The answer is no. And I'm not sure I want you hanging around with Steve anymore.
darren		I've known him since I was five years old!
mom		People change and I don't like the way Steve's changing.
darren		But -- That's not fair!
dad		Stop arguing with her, Darren. Furious at his treatment, Darren gets up, stomps out. As Annie wonders if she should ask what's up...
steve		I came here after your house. There was a van there, guy selling tickets.  Rest is history. They cross toward the ornate, albeit crumbling facade of the ZEITERION THEATER. Deserted, except for a few CANDLES burning on the sidewalk by a door. The wind moans.
darren		You know why they closed it, right? Years ago a kid fell out of the balcony and died. It's haunted.
steve		Get inside.
a hallway		They move toward a light at the end. Darren pauses at a darkened staircase. Headed up. He points it out to Steve...
darren		The balcony. Where he fell...
voice		May I help you? They wheel around, react to the sight behind them. MR. TALL. Gaunt, but oozing an elegant toughness.
steve		We're here to see the show. He takes an ominous step forward, then holds out a hand.
steve		Maybe he heard me say it.
around corner		When they turn it, Mr. Tall is gone. Vanished. Ahead, a threadbare velvet CURTAIN. A low murmur on the other side. The boys exchange a last look, then push through into...
rhamus		My name is Rhamus Twobellies. And I do have two. He TRIPS, stumbles toward the edge of the stage. PEOPLE in the front row jump back to keep from being crushed. Rhamus stops short, LAUGHS at them. He was pretending. He's practically doubled-over, resting his hands on his haunches. More blue-robed MIDGETS roll out a CART covered with food and lots of other stuff. Rhamus grabs a GLASS BOTTLE of soda. Instead of opening it, he bites off the glass top, chews it and swallows. Soon he's eating food almost as fast as he can grab it. Disgusting, but great fun at the same time. Next, he holds up a couple of nuts and bolts. Then swallows them whole. He swings his belly around. You can hear the sound of metal shifting inside. The crowd recoils as he starts to regurgitate, spitting out BOLTS, NAILS, BOTTLE CAPS, a JACKKNIFE. They clatter on stage. Finally, a METAL LINK appears between his teeth. He pinches hold of it and pulls. A CHAIN starts out of his mouth, up from his belly. One foot...two...six feet in all. With a shrug he starts off stage, dragging it behind him. Darren & Steve break into applause. So does the audience. As Rhamus' chain slides out of sight, a SNAKE slides in. An enormous BOA CONSTRICTOR. Impossibly huge. It slithers out to the center of the stage, its tongue flicking in and out. A SPOTLIGHT flicks down from above. The snake stops, raises itself several feet off the ground as it looks up, seemingly transfixed by the light. But in reality... The end of a thick ROPE drops down. And moving  down the rope is a BOY. Very thin, his blonde hair tinged with green. This is EVRA VON. He moves smoothly, twists over backwards to set his feet down on the stage. Evra wears a sort of cloak which he suddenly spins out of. The audience GASPS... Wearing only shorts, Evra's body SPARKLES. He's covered in gold, blue and green scales! He moves a vaguely webbed hand through the air, charming the snake which raises itself higher still. He slowly slides forward till he and the boa are nearly eye-to-eye. Then Evra leans forward and KISSES the snake on the nose.
darren		He's as old as us.
stage		Evra starts to make a HISSING sound. In response, the snake begins corkscrewing around him like the stripes on a barber shop pole. Finally, it slithers around his neck, pulls back to look him in the eye. And then... Evra bends at the knees, lays down and starts to roll. Like he was wrapped in a snake carpet, he disappears stage left. More applause from the audience. Then the stage goes dark except for a small focused spot at the center. Everyone waits, but nothing happens until... Appearing literally out of nowhere - one instant there's nothing under the spot and the next instant there is --
darren		It's him...
stage		Crepsley disappears! The crowd mumble nervously. And just as suddenly he's back! On the edge of the stage, lit by the footlights. This time he holds a draped BIRDCAGE.
crepsley		It's not true. That all tarantulas are poisonous. Though some can kill a man. With one bite. Crepsley whisks off the covering. In the cage: a TARANTULA the size of a large man's hand. So big you can make out individual eyes. As deadly looking as it is beautiful.
darren		Reacts. A spider!
stage		Crepsley makes the introduction.
crepsley		Her name? Madam Octa. Pray that she never learns yours. Two of the blue-robed 'little people' lead a GOAT onto the stage. A ripple of worry runs through the crowd. Crepsley starts over. The goat BLEATS. The little people hold it. Mr. Crepsley flicks open the cage door with his finger. The spider sets its front legs on the bars, pulls itself through. A few gasps from the audience. The goat bucks. Madam Octa bares her fangs, poised to leap on her prey. Several audience members CRY OUT that this should stop. Crepsley looks out with mock-theatrical surprise.
crepsley		No...? Shall it be life? Chuckling to himself, he looks to the goat tenders. They release the goat which bee-lines its way off the stage. Crepsley faces the audience.
crepsley		I wonder if you would be as shocked to see the same fate for me? Madam Octa moves -- climbing the outside of the cage -- taking a cautious step onto the hand holding the cage, then starting up Crepsley's arm. He stands dead still.
stage		Madam Octa has nearly reached Crepsley's left shoulder.
crepsley		Though we have been together such a long time, she is no pet. I think she would quite enjoy killing me. Crepsley calmly raises his free hand. It holds a shiny TIN WHISTLE. Madam Octa has reaches his shoulder.
crepsley		For her bite there is no cure. Madam Octa bares her fangs, even longer now. Her malevolence about to be directed at her master. Crepsley carefully puts the whistle to his mouth and starts to play, as simple as it is evocative. Madam Octa hesitates. Then, she moves around his throat, starts to climb his face using his scar as her guide. She gets to the top of his head, stands in his shock of hair. She sways; she's dancing! Then she leaps, lands on the end of the whistle. Crepsley keeps playing as Madam Octa attaches a web, drops down about 18 inches off the end. She starts to swing. Crepsley takes the whistle from his mouth and twirls it around. Octa does a few 360s and the thread breaks. She sails up high over Crepsley's head. He cranes back to watch as down she comes, legs splayed. She lands flat on his face. The whistle is in his hand. Crepsley looks out at the audience. Looking out between her hairy legs, his eyes are wide with horror. Without warning, the spotlight on him goes out. As the stage is plunged into darkness, we hear Crepsley SCREAM. A horrible, horrible sound. The audience wait, but nothing happens. Some of them rise from their seats, peer into the gloom. It's too dark. The sound of something being DRAGGED. Then nothing. A light comes up stage left as Mr. Tall steps out.
audience man		But... What happened to him?!
darren		Let's get outta here.
steve		No, you go. I'm staying. Steve starts down toward the stage. Darren follows.
darren		Wait. What're you doing? Steve reaches the stage, looks around. The audience is mostly exited; no one from the Cirque is in sight. As Steve starts up onto the stage, Darren grabs his shoulder. Steve wheels, shoves Darren who stumbles back into a seat.
steve		This is my destiny. Don't ruin it. Steve looks dangerous as he looms. Darren raises his hands in surrender. Steve eases off, but he's still intense.
steve		That car today. It was a sign. Sending me here. I was told there'd be a sign. Too friggin' weird.
darren		Told by who? The guy in the chat room? The internet guy?
steve		I'll tell you later. If I can. Steve scrambles onto the stage and disappears into the back. Darren stands, whispers into the dark.
darren		Steve... Decision time. Darren climbs up, starts after his friend.
darren		Steve...? No answer. Darren decides, starts down steep, rickety steps.
darren		Coming down the creaky stairs. Spooky.
darren		Steve...
steve		Turning a corner, is startled by what turns out to be a costume mannequin. But beyond: a LONG BOX set on two sawhorses. Coffin-sized. Empty, its lid propped up by it. The dust is tracked with footsteps. A mini-FRIDGE hums in a corner. Steve steps over, sees an EXTENSION CORD which runs up the wall, disappears into a hole punched in the ceiling.
darren		Stops short as a LIGHT suddenly cuts through the gloom to his left. Darren steps over low behind a CREDENZA. He sees...
steve		He's opened the door to the fridge. The little bulb inside pushes through the gloom, lighting the area up.
darren		Reacts as MADAM OCTA tries to jump on his face! The bars of her CAGE stop her. It rests on the credenza he crouches behind. The whistle is there too. Darren looks over as...
steve		Reaches in the fridge, takes out a glass jar that looks to be filled with BLOOD. Steve raises it, swirls it around inside.
crepsley's voice		Are you looking for me? Steve whirls -- drops the bottle -- SMASH! Standing behind him - dead still - CREPSLEY.
darren		Rooted to the spot. Watching...
steve		I -- I know who you are.
crepsley		Tell me, boy. Who am I?
steve		You're a vampire.
crepsley		Too broad a definition. Do you introduce yourself as a human? Who I am is Larten Crepsley.
darren		Moving slightly to get a clearer view.
crepsley		Who sent you and what do they want?
steve		Nothing. No one. Crepsley takes a moment to decide if he believes him.
crepsley		Then what do you want?
steve		I want to join you.
crepsley		Join me? I don't understand.
steve		I want you to make me a vampire. Not what Crepsley  expected. Steve stands there trying to look resolved. Crepsley is surprised, intrigued.
crepsley		Is it because you want to live forever? Because we don't.
steve		I don't care about living forever. But you do seem to live a long time.
crepsley		A long time alone. Do you want to live alone?
steve		I already do.
crepsley		Are you an orphan?
steve		My father's gone; my mother doesn't care about me.
crepsley		Nor mine. You're friendless also?
steve		I have a friend, but he doesn't understand. He's got too much to know what it's like to be alone. As Darren reacts to this...
steve		When you're alone you feel weak. Useless. But I know there must be something strong about it, too. I want to feel the power of being alone. I want to be a vampire.
crepsley		The power of being alone will never be greater than the weakness of it.
steve		I don't care. Crepsley's actually impressed, but after a moment he waves a dismissive hand.
crepsley		It makes no matter. We do not blood children. I'm sorry. Steve pulls a JACKKNIFE from his pocket, flips open the 2- inch blade. Crepsley laughs out loud.
crepsley		Do you intend to use that on me? And we feel it more than see it, but Steve cuts into his own palm. He holds it up, moist and red in Crepsley's face.
steve		Do it. Make me a vampire.
crepsley		Do not tempt me.
darren		Can't believe what he's watching. He sees Crepsley suddenly get 'scent' of something. Something to do with Steve's blood. Not quite a clear view as Crepsley grabs Steve's wrist, dabs a finger into his palm and then tastes it.
crepsley		Crepsley shoves Steve down to the ground and immediately begins spitting onto the floor. Like it was poison.
steve		What's wrong?
crepsley		You have bad blood.
steve		What do you mean?
crepsley		I can taste the menace in your blood. You can never be a vampire. You're evil. Steve scrambles to his feet.
steve		That's a lie. You take that back! Crepsley draws himself full, his voice deadly.
crepsley		Go home. Suddenly cowed, Steve just stands there blinking.
darren		Frozen to his spot, watches as Crepsley, seemingly ill, holds his head and spits again onto the floor. Then he steps over and kicks the fridge door closed. And in the blink of an eye, he's gone. Disappeared. Darren is alone. He starts out, then stops. Looks back. That beautiful spider. And Darren takes Madam Octa's cage and the whistle and makes a run for it. Just like that.
darren		Oh. You want that? Darren picks up the worm, lowers it between the bars. A beat and then Madam Octa snatches it away from him. Dinner.
darren		See? I'm your friend... You're so beautiful I stopped thinking. The wind rustles. Darren grabs the cage, continues.
dad		Get inside. From his angle, Darren's Dad can't see the cage in his son's hand. Darren hooks it over the end piece of part of the trellis and climbs in. Leaving the cage hanging behind.
dad		A freak show? Are you kidding me?
darren		It was down at the old Zeiterion Theater. Look, dad, I'm sorry. It's just, I couldn't resist. I --
dad		You told me the other day you were broke. You were looking for a job to do around the house this weekend.
darren		Yeah? So?
dad		Where'd you get money for the show?
darren		Steve had money. Darren's Dad's suspicion is confirmed.
dad		Steve... We weren't going to tell you, but we think Steve stole money from your Mom's purse yesterday.
darren		He wouldn't do that.
dad		Mom's pretty sure about it.
darren		Man, what is this? You don't want me hanging around with him. Now you say you think he stole money? Do you know for sure?
dad		No.
darren		Steve's had some bad times lately. I'm trying to be a good friend.
dad		Being a good friend and sneaking out are two different things.
darren		I have to sneak out! You treat me like a kid! A moment as Darren's raised voice rings out of the room.
dad		Then act like an adult if that's how you want to be treated. This world is crossed by fences -- Darren interrupts. He's heard it a million times.
darken		I know, I know. And you gotta decide which side you stand on. And you can't sit on it either. His Dad doesn't enjoy hearing his words thrown back at him. He starts for the door, looks back before exiting.
dad		A freak show. What do they do, put people in cages for everyone to laugh at?
darren		It wasn't like that. A beat. Darren's Dad goes, closing the door. Darren sighs. He goes to the window, pulls up the cage. He scans a look outside. Except for his Dad, the coast is clear.
annie		Is he in a lot of trouble?
dad		Nothing a few years in prison won't take care of.
annie		I don't see what the big deal is...
mom		Get this. She said she couldn't comment because she didn't make it home last night herself.
annie		Where was she?
mom		Go tell Darren it's breakfast.
darren's room		Darren's just snapped her photo with his DIGITAL CAMERA. As the door bursts open and Annie enters... Darren scrambles to block the cage from view.
darren		Annie, you gotta learn to knock.
annie		Mom said to come eat. What's that? As Annie tries to look, Darren stays in front of her.
darren		Out. Annie sighs, heads out. Darren puts the cage in the closet.
darren		Mom, this is the best omelette I ever had. His Dad can't help but smile. Good move. Mom is pleased, but knows she's being manipulated. As Annie stifles a laugh, Darren shoots her a look. A KNOCK at the kitchen door. Annie gets up, opens the door to reveal: Steve. From his angle he can only sees Annie.
steve		Hey, midget, where's the idiot? Annie motions Steve in. He stops short when he see everyone else. He recovers, does his best Eddie Haskell...
steve		Hi, Mr. Shan, Mrs. Shan. It's nice to see ya. As Steve gets several less than welcoming looks...
steve		What was that? Everyone acting like they don't know me. Did I walk in on something? Darren closes the door. Gets to the point.
darren		What happened last night?
steve		Nothing. I hung out in the theater for awhile, but no one was around. The lie hangs in the air a moment.
steve		Sorry about the way I acted. I'm sorry I pushed you.
darren		Don't worry. There's, you know, no bad blood or anything like that.
steve		What?
darren		I said don't worry.
steve		You said bad blood. I never heard you say something like that before.
darren		What are you, the word police? Steve gives him a look. A weird tension in the air. Darren glances at the bandage on Steve's palm, changes the topic.
darren		Wanna see that new game I got?
steve		Sure... Darren steps over, starts his computer up. While waiting, Steve sees the digital camera on the dresser, picks it up.
steve		I gotta get one of these. Steve switches it on. Something occurs to Darren too late...
darren		Let me see that -- On the screen: the PHOTO OF MADAM OCTA. Steve twists around to keep the camera out of Darren's reach.
steve		It's Madam Octa.
darren		I took it at the show.
steve		Liar. Look at the background. This got taken right on your desk. Darren's caught. As they just stare at each other.
madam octa		In her cage, on the desk. Darren and Steve looking her over.
steve		How'd you do it?
darren		They were loading a van outside. I, I just took her.
steve		Just like that...  You stole from a vampire you know?
darren		Just because he had a coffin doesn't mean he's really a... Darren trails off. Steve realizes Darren saw the coffin.
steve		You were there, weren't you?
darren		I didn't believe it. Steve studies Darren, hopes that's true.
darren		I heard what you said to him, too. That you wanted to be a vampire. Steve doesn't want to talk about it. He looks at Madam Octa.
steve		How do you think he made her do what he wanted? Darren opens his desk drawer, pulls out the flute.
darren		I wish I knew how to play it.
steve		I think that was just for show. I think he used something else. Some kind of mind control.
darren		You mean telepathy?
steve		I bet anyone with a brain could do it. Which leaves you out. Steve smiles, gives Darren a little punch in the arm. The tension is loosening. They react to a KNOCK on the door.
annie's voice		Can I come in? Darren goes to the door. Opens it a few inches.
darren		I swear to God, Annie...
annie		What? I knocked. As they talk, Steve opens the cage door. Madam Octa sets her arms on the edge, pulls herself out.
darren		Steve... Annie reaches out, takes Steve's hand.
annie		Darren, he's freezing.
darren		Get dad. Go.
doctor		What kind of spider was it?
darren		I think some kind of a tarantula.
doctor		Where is it?
darren		It got away. Darren's Dad holds up the camera.
dad		We have a picture of it. The doctor takes it as a NURSE meets the gurney.
doctor		Anaphylactic shock. Get Doctor Lund. And we need to download a photo to poison control. This is as far as Darren goes. Steve is wheeled in, surrounded. Syringes are drawn, handed in. All we can see of Steve is one skinny arm hanging out. PUSH IN ON DARREN. Sick for Steve. Scared. Unaware that his world has only just started to crash down around him.
dad		If my son said he took that photo, then that's the truth. Dr. Lund just stares at Darren. Then:
woman's voice		What have you done to him?! STEVE'S MOM approaches, her eyes on Darren. Disheveled, cheap looking, she hasn't quite started her hangover yet. She lunges past Darren's dad, grabs Darren by the shoulder.
steve's mom		Did you hurt Stevie?! Did you?!
darren		Hello?
zeiterion stage		Where he stops short, sees in the center of the stage -- Crepsley's COFFIN. A beat and Darren steps up. He grips the lid, starts sliding it back. He looks inside to see --
crepsley		What have you come for this time? Darren pulls out a CRUCIFIX, holds it in Crepsley's face. The vampire takes it, looks it over. It has no effect.
darren		Crosses don't hurt you?
crepsley		Why should they?
darren		Because... you're evil.
crepsley		Am I? Are vampire bats evil when they drink the blood of cows?
darren		That's different. Bats are animals.
crepsley		So am I. So are you. Our appetites don't make us evil.  Why are you here?
darren		Your spider bit my friend Steve. Crepsley shrugs, tosses Darren back his crucifix.
darren		He's dying.
crepsley		Yes, well, boys who play with things they do not understand can hardly complain if --
darren		You have to help him!
crepsley		The antidote to her poison is rare. Expensive. Why should someone as evil as I am waste it on Steve?
darren		I'll pay you back. If it takes 50 years. Whatever it costs.
crepsley		Money doesn't interest me.
darren		There's something you want. That's why you're here waiting for me. Right? Crepsley's surprised and pleased by Darren's intuitiveness.
crepsley		The night Steve came below to speak to me, you were there. Did you hear what we talked about?
darren		He wanted to... become like you.
crepsley		You don't just 'become' a vampire. The change is too extreme. And if the shock didn't kill you, your inexperience would. So you become one in stages. A half-vampire at first. With greater strength than a human, but still able to go out in sunlight. You learn from a full vampire. Do you understand?
darren		I think so...
crepsley		But your friend has bad blood. He's no good. There's no telling what he'll become as he matures.
darren		I don't believe that someone can have bad blood.
crepsley		And yesterday you didn't believe in vampires. Regardless, I've left the Cirque. Left my protection. I need someone to protect me while I sleep. I need an apprentice.
darren		You're crazy. There's no way.
crepsley		Then your friend will die. The words hang in the air. Crepsley smiles.
crepsley		You hardly have a choice. It's your destiny.
darren		Destiny? That doesn't make sense.
crepsley		Try this then. You're reckless enough to steal, responsible enough to come back for a friend. That's enough for me.
darren		Not for me.
crepsley		Yes, well, destiny can't be explained. It must be lived. Now, you're wasting my time.
darren		There's gotta be another way.
crepsley		There isn't.
darren		Please... He's my friend.
crepsley		And he slips away while we argue. Life or death? Yes or no?
darren		You'd never be able to trust me. If I got a chance for payback I'd take it.
crepsley		Yes or no? Thoughts rush, then stop. Darren finally just nods. Crepsley raises his right hand. The nails are not especially long, but they look thick and sharp. Crepsley takes Darren's hand, jabs at his forefinger, draws blood. He dabs off a drop, smells it, then tastes it.
crepsley		You have good blood. Crepsley lifts his own left hand. He presses the nails of his right into the fleshy tips of his left hand fingers. Then he uses the left nails to mark the right fingers in the same way. Blood drips down all ten fingers.
crepsley		Lift your hands. Darren does as he's told. Crepsley digs all ten nails into all ten of Darren's fingertips. Darren jerks back in pain.
crepsley		Get used to pain. More lies ahead. He motions to his hands. Darren raises them, fingers spread. Crepsley presses his fingertips to Darren's. Blood brothers. As their eyes lock, Darren frowns at an alien sensation.
crepsley		The blood flows into your left arm and out of your right. Do you feel it? Getting near your heart? Darren nods, shivers.
crepsley		Almost there. A force arcs through Darren's body. He screams, falls down.
crepsley		The world will start to slow down. You'll become a witness of time.  Your friend's time is running out. He pulls Darren to his feet.
crepsley		Take my arm. Don't let go. Darren takes hold. Crepsley starts to move. Only it seems more like he's still and the ground is moving under his feet. Darren looks about as the building begin to streak past, the road a blurred ribbon. The night has a weird chromatic look. The world moving faster, Crepsley and Darren slipping past. A moment later and they're in the...
crepsley		Lick your fingers. Vampire spit will stop wounds from bleeding. Darren looks at his fingers, then around the lot.
darren		How'd we get here?
crepsley		It's called flitting. Which room is your friend in?
crepsley		We're in time. He still has a few minutes left. Crepsley takes a small AMBER VIAL from his pocket. He breaks a wax seal then pinches out a small blackened cork. He pulls the drip line out of the IV CATHETER and empties a drop of the vial's dark, viscous contents inside. It swirls murkily, coloring the liquid on its way into Steve's arm. A beat and then Steve seems to convulse, his arms and legs twitching. Is he dying?
darren		What's happening?
crepsley		He was near death. The journey back is not pleasant. What do you know about him, this boy with bad blood?
darren		He's my friend.
crepsley		Hmm... Who's his father?
darren		Never met him. I don't think Steve ever did either. Why do you want to know? And then Steve comes around. He opens his eyes, focuses on Darren for a moment. He looks puzzled.
steve		Darren? And then he drifts off, asleep. His breathing growing deeper, steadier. Darren realizing he's going to be okay.
crepsley		Will you come with me now or do you have things to set in order first? That's when it really hits home. He's agreed to leave every- thing and go off with a vampire. Without really thinking, Darren starts backing toward the door, his eyes on Crepsley.
crepsley		I see... Darren's almost to the door. Crepsley stays where he is.
crepsley		Run if you want. It won't help. You're a creature of the night now, Darren Shan. Darren turns and bolts leaving Crepsley alone. Chuckling, the vampire tucks Steve's covers up under his chin.
mom		Darren... Wake up, honey. Darren wakes with a start as she gives him a little shake. As he looks about, wonders what reality he's in.
mom		I just got off the phone. Great news. Steve's going to be okay.
darren		What?
mom		The hospital says it's a miracle. Was it a dream? Darren looks down at his hands. On the tip of each finger and two thumbs are small round WHITE SCARS. Darren instinctively hugs his mom. She thinks he's overjoyed, can't see his look of terror. She hugs him back.
mom		Yeah, it's great news. I know how you feel.
annie		Boo! Darren nearly jumps out of his skin. Annie laughs.
annie		Got you! I finally got you! - Darren turns on her, looks like he could kill her.
darren		Don't ever do that again. Annie's smile drops away. As Darren continues on...
kid		Hey, Shan, you gotta see this. They duck into the classroom. Darren follows.
science lab		TWENTY or so KIDS all pressed around the Boa Constrictor tank. Steve holds court.
steve		.Doctor said it was a miracle. They say I'm unique -- Steve spots Darren as he steps up in the back.
steve		Hey, Darren. I've been looking for you. We got a lot to talk about.
darren		Yeah?
steve		But first... Steve holds out a fist. A MOUSE pokes its head out through an opening in the hand. Its whiskers twitch. As Darren looks from the mouse to the snake... Steve addresses the kids does his best 'Mr. Tall'. He tries to be entertaining, but he comes off creepy.
steve		Welcome to Cirque du Steve. What happens to us all can happen to any of us. If you watch, it's by your own free will. Say farewell...
hefts mouse		.to Crepsley the mouse. Darren reacts to the name. Steve lowers his hand into the terrarium. Some kids already look away, others are intent.
darren		It's cruel.
steve		It's nature. Anyhow don't watch.
steve		What happened to the spider?
darren		I killed it. Steve hesitates, processes, looks Darren over.
steve		I had a dream. You and Crepsley were in my hospital room...
darren		Tell me about it later. Darren starts away. Steve grabs him hard, spins him around.
steve		I'll tell you now. Darren reacts instinctively, grabs Steve with his free hand and SLAMS him against the wall. Steve's nearly off the ground, only his left toe touching.
darren		I said later. Darren lets go, heads off. Steve watches, wonders.
annie		Darren! Wait up! He looks over his shoulder, keep going.
annie		Can I walk home with you? He softens, slows down. After a few silent steps.
darren		Got you something. Darren pulls the MOUSE from his pocket. Annie loves it, cups it in her hand.
annie		He's adorable.
street		Annie SCREAMS as a GERMAN SHEPHERD charges, stops just short of them. GROWLING like it was rabid. Like it hates Darren. Darren steps between it and Annie. Darren's pupils dilate oddly; he curls his lip to show his own teeth. The dog starts to back off..
annie		Hey. That's King.
darren		No it's not. King's my buddy.
annie		That's King, Darren. It is. Darren realizes it is King. As Darren realizes something's wrong with Darren.. Another growl. From down the street. Darren looks back as a black 1966 LINCOLN prowls through the intersection. The one seen at school. It slows, windows blacked out. As it continues, disappears from view...
darren		Come on. As Darren hurries Annie along down the street...
mom		How was school today?
darren		The usual. Sometimes it was boring, sometimes really boring. Darren's mom laughs. Then...
mom		Ouch! She drops the knife on the cutting board. A thick drop of BLOOD runs down her finger. Darren flinches at the sight and in that moment we PUNCH INTO his eyes. The PUPILS swirl red; the IRISES flatten and narrow. A dark, ravenous look.
darren		Standing at the blood's seeming siren call. But as he suddenly moves forward, she turns away. Darren stops as she wraps her finger in a paper towel. She looks back at him: misunderstands his hunger for concern.
mom		It's okay, honey. I just need a band-aid. Darren looks at his mom's neck. His eyes zero in on a little blue VEIN PULSING away. She leaves the room to get a band- aid. As Darren's horror sinks in...
darren		You're different...
darren		Hello? Hey! Crepsley appears. Darren turns, sees him. A beat. Crepsley raises his hands to the gloom around them.
crepsley		The darkness isn't so scary anymore, is it?
darren		I'm starting to think it's me that's scary. Crepsley waits to hear more.
darren		It's only gonna get worse, isn't it? There's no way back, is there? No magic potion to make me human again? Crepsley shakes his head. Darren nods that he understands.
darren		We made a deal. I won't run away again.
crepsley		It's neither here nor there, but, I do feel sorry for you. Darren waves it off, doesn't want to hear it.
crepsley		Are you ready then? The night is young. We can make many miles.
darren		I can't just -- My family, I can't let them think I just left them. Or that something happened to me. My mother would... She couldn't... As Darren trails off, Crepsley really does look sympathetic.
crepsley		There's only one thing for it.
darren		What?
crepsley		We'll have to kill you.
darren		I'm going to bed. They say 'good night' to him. Impulsively, Darren kisses his dad on the cheek, then does the same to his mom.
darren		I love you both. I don't say it that much, but I do. Darren's Mom is caught off guard, but happy to hear it.
mom		We love you, too. Don't we, Tommy?
dad		Of course we do. Darren looks at them a beat, then smiles, satisfied.
darren		Good night. They watch him go, then exchange looks.
darren		Goodbye, knucklehead. If I can ever help you, I will.
darren		Shut up. Off Crepsley's reaction...
darren		This is my home and I'm never gonna see it again, so don't rush me. Crepsley makes a motion to zip his lips. All the same, he stands, unscrews the bottle as Darren takes a last look around. He takes a PHOTO of his family off the dresser.
darren		Hold onto this for me, okay? Crepsley takes the photo, offers Darren the bottle in return. Darren sniffs, recoils at the foul smell.
darren		You're sure it will work? Crepsley opens the window.
crepsley		Your heart will slow down so drastically they won't find a pulse. With the fall from the window, they'll think you're dead.
darren		What if I break bones?
crepsley		Even better. They'll mend in a few days. Vampires don't stay broken for long and it takes a very long fall to kill one.
darren		And the funeral home? Won't they embalm me or something?
crepsley		Don't worry. I have ways of making my thoughts become the thoughts of others. They'll leave you alone.
darren		My dad's allergic to grass. It's my job to cut the lawn.
crepsley		You have a new job now. Drink. Darren steels himself, gulps it down, hands the bottle back.
darren		So this is destiny, huh? Tastes like crap. Darren body seizes up. He lets go, but Crepsley grabs him.
crepsley		Your breathing is slowing, your heart as well. Do you feel it? Darren can't answer. He blinks his eyes 'yes' instead.
crepsley		You may be aware of what's going on around you. Remember, the grief that you hear will be a release for those who express it. Darren's eyes drift shut. Crepsley lets him go.
neighbor		No, no, come on -- The Neighbor stops short as he sees the body.
neighbor		Hey -- Hey, kid -- He rolls Darren over, realizes something is very wrong.
dad		Darren? Darren! A moment later his Mom...
mom		Darren! Oh my God! We're still on Darren's face, his eye open a slit.
darren's pov		His parents hovering over him in despair. The STARS TWINKLE. The neighbor leans in.
neighbor		Is he dead?
medical examiner		Cause of death is trauma from the impact of the fall. Poor kid.
assistant		Are we doing an autopsy?
medical examiner		I'm not going to cut open a kid. Not when I don't have to.
girl one		He's still cute.
girl two		I always had a crush on him. The Goalie from school soccer is next. He holds a little SOCCER BALL in his hand. Tucks it into the coffin.
goalie		For the next life, Shan. Top right corner every time. Annie steps up, gently strokes her brother's cheek. Then suddenly overwhelmed, she buries her face in their Dad's chest. He leans in tenderly over his son. Choked up:
dad		I love you, Darren. You said it the other night; I didn't say it back.
darren's pov		Of the ceiling for a moment, then a blinding light flashing back and forth. Then glimpses of Steve's face!
visiting room		Steve holds Darren's eye open, shines a PENLIGHT into it. The pupil doesn't dilate. Footsteps approach. Steve switches it off, pockets it as the FUNERAL DIRECTOR enters.
director		I'm sorry. I know it's difficult, but visiting hours are over. Steve nods sadly, looks to Darren. He pats one of Darren's hands which are folded across his chest. In reality Steve checks Darren's fingertips. A WHITE SCAR at the end of each one. Steve's crazy idea may be confirmed.
minister		Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in sure and certain hope of the resurrection to come... Darren's Dad tosses a handful of earth down onto the coffin.
crepsley		On your feet.
darren		My legs are asleep.
crepsley		Walk it off. I'll fill this back in. Go. Breathe some air. Crepsley closes the coffin, begins to fill the hole as Darren ambles off. Not exactly the start of his best day.
darren		What are you doing here?
steve		 Vampire hunting. Steve rushes the last step, a jagged WOODEN STAKE held high over his head. He knocks Darren back on the ground. Pouncing on top, he brings down the stake. Darren catches hold of Steve's wrist. Stops the point of the stake just over his heart. Steve puts his weight into it. A desperate moment of struggle, but Darren's strength is resurgent. He throws Steve off. Steve rolls to his feet, comes at him again. Darren catches his wrist with one hand, his throat with the other. He slams him up against the mausoleum, holds him there.
darren		What do you have against vampires? You wanted to become one yourself.
steve		Yeah, I wanted to, but you did. You stole my dream. You stole my destiny.
darren		Are you crazy? I did it to save your life. That was the deal. Me for you.
darren		I want you to leave... Steve is just beginning to realize how strong Darren is now.
darren		I want you to leave and forget you ever saw me. Understand? Scared, he nods. Darren shoves him away, brakes the stake in two. Steve heads away, looks back over his shoulder.
steve		I'm going to hunt you, Darren. You and the other one. Crepsley. I'll put a stake in you and burn you to ashes. I'll make sure you never come back from the grave again. WHAM. Steve walks right into Crepsley. He picks Steve up by the shoulders, pulls him close. With a voice like Death...
crepsley		If we ever meet again, I will show you loneliness you cannot imagine. Steve trembles in fear. Crepsley lets go. Steve takes off running. Crepsley looks to Darren.
crepsley		Do you still question his blood? Darrenthoughtful, doesn't know what to think.
darren		Would a stake through the heart kill a vampire?
crepsley		Yes. But so would getting hit by a truck if it was going fast enough. Steve finally disappears from sight. Crepsley sighs.
crepsley		He'll be trouble before it's over.
darren		Before what's over?
crepsley		This adventure we're on. Shall we start? Darren hesitates, looks to the twinkling lights of his city.
crepsley		You'll get used to it after awhile. Vampires are always saying goodbye. A beat, then Darren looks back at him.
darren		Let's go.
the sun		As it blisters up into, then rises above the horizon. Sunrise. Ominous if you're a full vampire.
darren		How's that? Dark enough?
crepley's voice		 Better.
darren		It's sunrise.
crepley's voice		I know the time. I know more about the sunrise than anyone alive.
darren		Maybe I'll wait until noon and then open every door and curtain in the place. A long tense silence as Darren awaits Crepsley's reply.
motel bedroom		Crepsley is a shadow among the shadows. He climbs into bed.
crepsley		Yes, sunlight would kill me. My electrons are different than a human's. But it would take several hours of exposure. I'd have plenty of time to kill you before I closed the curtains and went back to bed. Crepsley pulls the blanket up over his head.
darren		Minnesota... Darren jots this state down on a LIST he's keeping. About twenty state license plates so far.
crepsley		We can die violently. Accidentally or otherwise. But we also grow old. A full vampire will age one year for every ten human years he's alive. A half-vampire like you: one for every five.
darren		I don't understand.
crepsley		I was born in 1774. I became -- Crepsley looks back to where Darren has stopped short.
crepsley		Should we do the math or not? Darren nods. Crepsley motions him to keep up.
crepsley		I became a vampire when I was 20
crepsley		In Paris. The days of the Terror. Heads in baskets. Guillotines up and down all day. Really when humans put their minds to it, we vampires can hardly compete.
crepsley		Math. 1794. So I've been a vampire now for 211 years. Hmm? Darren nods again, still with him.
crepsley		I age 1 year for every 10, so, 211 divided by 10, I've aged about 21 years in that time. That 21 plus my first human 20 makes me look
darren		But altogether you're 211 plus 20. You're really 231 years old.
crepsley		Exactly. You're going to be a teenager for a very long time. They walk on a few steps as Darren thinks this over.
darren		Where do you keep your car anyhow?
crepsley		What car?
darren		The one you were driving around my town in. The old black one.
crepsley		I've never owned a car, Darren. I don't need one.
darren		It was near school one day. It followed me home a few days later.
crepsley		And you saw me behind the wheel?
darren		I couldn't see who was driving.
crepsley		It wasn't me. As Darren considers this, Crepsley stops suddenly.
crepsley		There... Ahead: just more parking lot. A WOMAN exiting a BOOKSTORE.
darren		What?
crepsley		Dinner.
woman		Yes? Only nobody's there. She shrugs it off, closes the back door. But hesitates at the driver's side door. Then she starts walking away, toward a back area of loading docks.
darren		Go. Run. But Crepsley appears beside her. He 'breathes' into his hand, 'guides' the air into her face. He catches her as she passes out. Darren is horrified.
darren		Did you kill her?
crepsley		I put her to sleep. She'll be like this 15 minutes. When she wakes up, she won't remember a thing.
darren		Will she become a vampire?
crepsley		No. She'd have to share y blood for that to happen.
darren		Don't take too much.
crepsley		A vampire who feeds often can control himself. One who drinks only when he must can end up feeding wildly. He uses one of his fingernails to open the vein.
crepsley		The hunger inside us must be fed to be controlled. To be civilized. It's what separates us from... the others.
darren		What others? But as blood oozes, he takes the woman's wrist td his mouth. Darren is repulsed, but can't look away. Crepsley takes a few deep swallows, then holds the wrist out to Darren.
crepsley		Your turn.
darren		No. I won't.
crepsley		Darren...
darren		I'll never do it. Crepsley runs his tongue over the cut, rubs the saliva in.
crepsley		You can lead a vampire to blood, but you can't make him drink.
darren		I'm only half-vampire.
crepsley		No matter, you need blood to live now. You'll drink eventually. When you're hungry enough. The wrist is clean, the cut gone. A barely perceptible scar.
darren		I'll die first.
darren		What is it? As the woman starts to stir...
crepsley		Nothing. Let's go.
darren		Something out there scares you. What is it?
crepsley		The thought of spending another minute with you. Crepsley turns and walks, but Darren's right.
crepsley		We still need to eat food, too. I just don't need it tonight. Darren just sits there. Silently as tears begin to run down his cheeks. Crepsley is exasperated.
crepsley		Now what?
darren		The blood... I wanted it. I wanted to drink it.
crepsley		Of course you did! You're a Crepsley catches himself. He is not without some compassion.
crepsley		I'm sorry. It was wrong of me to blood you. You're too young. But it's done. Like the entire history of the world up to this moment. Darren quietly cries. Crepsley pulls two paper napkins from the dispenser, hands them to him.
darren		Thank you. Darren turns to face the window as he wipes his eyes, nose. Then he sees it: parked across and down the street... A black 1966 Lincoln Continental. Darren looks back at Crepsley.
darren		The car... Crepsley follows the finger as Darren points. DING DING! The bell over the diner door rings...
darren's pov		MR. TINY comes through the front door pimpin'. Peter Lorre on steroids. Scary, done up like a Las Vegas high roller.
table		Darren knows trouble when he sees it. He looks back at Crepsley, but the vampire is gone! Vanished.
darren		Where'd you hear that?
darren		Who is?
darren		See what? The air seems to buzz as something 'passes'.
murlough		Smell the blood. The lovely blood. His eyes narrow at the sight of Crepsley, his mouth widening to show two rows of sharp filthy teeth. Darren needs to do something. He eyes the watch in Mr. Tiny's hand. He grabs it with his free hand, thumbs back in the winding knob. As Murlough disappears from view... The WINDOW EXPLODES as Sinewy Two hurtles out. Darren tosses the watch high in the air. Mr. Tiny releases him to move to catch it. Darren rushes back toward the restaurant. Mr. Tiny catches his watch. Crepsley meets Darren. Crepsley's broken arm hangs uselessly from his side. Murlough appears alongside. He grabs Crepsley by the throat, lifts him off the ground. Crepsley arcs the knife into Murlough's shoulder. Murlough staggers, lets go.
darren's pov		Murlough follows. Closing ground.
darren		It's behind us! Crepsley bears down, the buildings streaking by. But...
murlough		Closes regardless, relentless, death in his eyes.
crepsley		Almost out of gas. But looking ahead. Clocks in an instant: a RED LIGHT AHEAD. Cars STOPPED. A CAR FROZEN having just crossed the INTERSECTION. HEADLIGHTS from a blind corner. Crepsley slows. Just as Murlough's about to catch him from behind... Crepsley comes out of flit mode, disappears. As Murlough FADES after him.
crepsley		Find a blanket. A rug. Cover it.
root cellar		It goes black except for a glint in Crepsley's eyes. He sighs, settles down on the ground. Worn out.
darren's voice		Are you okay?
crepsley		My arm's broken. But it should be fine in a day or two.
darren		Who were they? Vampires?
crepsley		No. The one with the watch was Mr. Tiny. Very dangerous.
darren		How dangerous can a man named Mr. Tiny be?
crepsley		Who said he was a man?
darren		Then what is he?
crepsley		Mr. Tiny can't be explained. He needs to be experienced.
crepsley		A vampaneze.
darren		Yeah? Keep talking.
crepsley		Long ago humans were looked upon as animals by some vampires. Cattle to be slaughtered. Laws were passed to forbid needless killing. It made it easier to pass unnoticed among humans if we didn't murder them. Most vampires obeyed...
darren		But some didn't?
crepsley		Seventy vampires broke away, declared themselves a separate race. The Vampaneze. Over time their appearance changed, their numbers grew. They believe it's wrong to feed from a human without killing it.
darren		What? That's crazy.
crepsley		They believe those of us who feed in small amounts live like leeches. In shame. It led to war. Crepsley touches the scar on his face, remembers.
crepsley		The last one nearly destroyed us all. There's been a truce for many years now.
darren		Oh yeah... This is so much better than where I used to be... Crepsley hears the strain in his voice. Knows what's best for both of them..
crepsley		What do you think of rejoining the Cirque du Freak? Until you get on your vampire feet so to speak.
darren		Half vampire.
crepsley		Yes, yes. Three-eighths if you want. What do you think? As Darren thinks...
darren		I liked it better where I was.
crepsley		Do you still have my coffin?
crepsley		I'd be delighted.
crepsley		You don't approve?
crepsley		I'm no longer part of their domain.
evra		What do you do? Me? I'm a snake boy. I do a whole snake thing. Evra goes into a slithery snake walk for a few steps to illustrate. It's strange. Funny. Evra looks back over.
darren		Do you eat mice?
evra		Big Macs actually. They share a LAUGH. Evra 'high fives' Darren. Fast friends.
darren		I caught your act in the last town. Pretty cool.
evra		Thanks. I'm not doing it tonight. My snake caught a cold.
darren		Snakes can catch cold? Evra nods, then SNEEZES himself.
evra		Still gotta work the floor though. Ushers. We get the seats filled. They pass PEOPLE all hurriedly crossing the camp.
darren		Who are they all?
evra		The backbone of Cirque du Freak. They do the driving, the tent pitching, the potato peeling even.
darren		How did they end up here?
evra		Most wandered in. If Mr. Tall likes them, they stay. Darren's eye is caught by the WOLFMAN. He's being pushed toward the factory building by several of the blue-robed LITTLE PEOPLE. The wolfman's yellow eyes are on Darren as he rumbles a low, guttural growl. Darren is so taken that he almost walks into... Madam Truska. He stops short. In costume, beardless, even more beautiful than when we first saw her. She considers Darren, uses a finger to raise his chin. She shakes her head, smiles. As she continues...
evra		Can we help you find a seat?
debbie		Are there any left?
evra		Only the best seats in the house. He leads them a few steps over toward a column.
debbie		You guys are with the Cirque? Darren nods. Sam's a little sarcastic and skeptical.
sam		Cirque is French, right? Are you guys French?
evra		Oui. Vous etes observateur. Nous sommes les serpents frangais. That slows Sam a beat. Evra points out a small platform eight feet up the column. You have to climb a natural re-bar ladder to get there. Sam looks dubious, but Debbie smiles.
debbie		Cool... I'm Debbie, this is Sam.
evra		Evra Von. She looks at Darren, waiting.
darren		Oh, I'm Darren.
debbie		Is the show great? Say yes. We had to sneak out to see it.
darren		I snuck out to see it once, too. And I'm still here. An odd, almost spooky moment. Is he serious?
sam		Good one, Darren. Hey. Debbie and Darren. Like Bonnie and Clyde. And their friend Evra Von what? That breaks the moment. Debbie starts climbing the re-bar. Sam looks Darren over a beat, picks a thread off his lapel.
sam		Dude, it looks like the kind of suit you'd wear to a funeral.
darren		You have no idea... Evra smiles, sticks out his tongue. Pointy, narrow, Evra sends it up his own nostril. Sam tries to smile, then starts up after Debbie. Freaked out. As Darren and Evra laugh...
back row		Darren and Evra watch from the back, whisper to each other.
darren		How long have you known Mr. Tall?
evra		Five years.
darren		How do you meet someone like him?
evra		I was raised in a circus, but not a nice one like this. The owner used to beat me and keep me in a glass cage. I felt like a useless freak. One night I looked out of my cage and saw Mr. Tall just standing there. He watched me until the owner came over and asked if he could help him. Mr. Tall grabbed him by the throat and strangled him to death. Then he opened the cage and said, "Let's go, Evra." He named me that. I added the Von. I've been with him ever since. Darren looks back at Mr. Tall with a new set of eyes.
crepsley's voice		Darren... Darren turns. Crepsley's back there in the shadows.
crepsley		How do you feel about show business?
crepsley		To be poisoned by a spider may be my fate. It's Darren's cue. Looking appropriate in his burial suit, he walks out carrying Madam Octa's cage at arm's length.
stage		Darren sees Debbie who gives a little wave. As he smiles...
crepsley		Look glum... Miserable...
a bonfire		Blazing in the Cirque campgrounds. The freaks are eating, drinking wine, relaxing after the show. Like a gypsy camp. Mr. Tall sits with his long legs up on a box, really enjoying watching everyone else enjoy themselves. Evra munches on a sausage he grills on the end of a stick. Darren is all ears and eyes. He likes these people. And he's certainly never experienced anything like this. Someone starts to play a guitar, someone else beats a drum. Madam Truska starts to dance, the fire flickering against her as are all eyes. Then she reaches out, takes Crepsley by the hand. A few moments later, the two of them are engaged in a mad TANGO. It takes the camp's collective breath away. Even Darren can't help but enjoy it. Crepsley's arm gives him a twinge or two, but only Truska notices.
darren		Almost done. Crepsley looks to the sky. Still dark. The moon setting.
crepsley		Darren... 
crespley		Mattress. Darren sighs, goes back to the van to retrieve the mattress. He starts to pull it out, then stops, nearly doubled over. Concerned, Crepsley steps over. Darren waves him off, straightens as whatever it was passes.
darren		I just felt sick for a second.
crepsley		You need blood. Darren gives him a dirty look, grabs the mattress. They start walking toward the factory.
darren		You think Mr. Tiny might come? Crepsley shrugs, doesn't answer.
darren		Who is he? What does he want?
crepsley		What we want is who we are, don't you think?
darren		Can't you give me a straight answer just once?!
crepsley		You won't learn by me telling you. You must live some things to know what they are. Darren sighs in deep frustration. Crepsley has a thought.
crepsley		Okay. Why do you like spiders?
crepsley		Did you ever think there was a particular reason? It seems Crepsley knows the answer even if Darren doesn't.
darren		No. I never thought about it.
crepsley		That's the trouble with children. They don't think about things.
darren		I'm not a child. Theystop by the shadows.
crepsley		Are you a man? If you're not a man, you're a child.
darren		I'm in between.
crepsley		In between does not exist! The words echo a moment. Darren no closer to understanding.
crepsley		I'll sleep in here tonight. But sit outside the van tomorrow and make it look like I'm there. It's just caution. Old habits die hard.
voice		And old vampires? Without a sound, someone has reached around the two of them from behind, a RAZOR-KNIFE held to each of their throats. They stand dead still. We can make out the shape of a head as whoever it is leans in ever so slightly from the dark.
crepsley		Gavner Purl, as always I heard you coming from a mile away. CLICK! In his hand by his side, Mr. Crepsley holds a thin SWITCHBLADE. He presses the steel back ever so slightly.
voice		We'll call it a draw then. The 'voice' pulls back his knives, steps out. It's GAVNER PURL. He was once handsome, but those days are long gone. His face is crossed with scars. They vary in size, thickness and color. Gavner is a warrior, carries himself so.
gavner purl		It's been too long, Larten.
crepsley		Decades now. They embrace. Darren's trying to catch up.
darren		You guys are friends?
gavner purl		I suppose. We once shared a coffin together. For six months.
gavner purl		We were being hunted.
darren		Who was hunting you?
crepsley		Never mind. Darren, Gavner Purl. Gavner extends his hand to shake. Darren sees'the scars on Gavner Purl's fingertips. Darren raises his own hand so Gavner can see his scars. Gavner looks at Crepsley.
gavner purl		A half-vampire?
crepsley		Of course. We don't make full vampires of our assistants. Gavner Purl looks at Crepsley, stunned.
gavner purl		Nor do we make assistants of children.
crepsley		I have my reasons.
gavner purl		And they are?
crepsley		I don't owe answers to vampires anymore. I'm exiled from our kind
gavner purl		Self-exiled. And I at least am owed an answer. There's a personal history being called upon here. Crepsley is well aware. Darren again is left out.
crepsley		All I care to say is a boy sought me out, knew who I was. He asked me to make him my assistant. Gavner looks to Darren, suspicious.
gavner purl		And how did you know --
crepsley		I met Darren shortly after. His blood was good or I certainly would have killed him. Darren reacts again.
gavner purl		How could a boy find you? Crepsley shrugs. Of course he had help.
gavner purl		Tiny?
darren		He tried to kill us.
crepsley		He tried to kill me. What he wanted with you wasn't determined.
gavner purl		Perhaps you chose the wrong boy. In Mr. Tiny's eyes. A moment as they consider the unspoken implications.
darren		What are you guys talking about!? No answer as Crepsley and Gavner lock each other in a look.
crepsley		What's important enough to track down an exile? What is your news?
gavner purl		War.
crepsley		I'm not interested in your wars.
gavner purl		Well the other side is interested or they wouldn't be trying to get rid of you. Crepsley gets suddenly very angry.
crepsley		I've had enough killing! No more! You've come to the wrong place. I am the wrong place... Gavner raises his hands in surrender.
gavner purl		Even so, I'm glad you're alive.
gavner purl		I can still make miles. The war won't wait. And neither will bad news. I have to go.
crepsley		Then travel safely.
gavner purl		Would you mind if I walk a bit with your assistant?
crepsley		Take him with you if you want. He's of little use to me.
gavner purl		You look sick. Doesn't Larten feed you?
darren		I won't drink blood if that's what you mean. I promised myself.
gavner purl		Why?
darren		You'll get insulted. As Gavner waits for Darren to tell him...
darren		I'm afraid if I drink blood, I'll become evil. Gavner LAUGHS out loud, catches himself.
gavner purl		The only thing drinking blood will do to you is keep you alive.
darren		That's how it would start. I would swear it was just to stay alive. But what'll I turn into? You're on one side of the fence or the other. My father used to say that and now I know what he meant. The 'father part' chokes Darren up a bit.
gavner purl		You've already turned, Darren. You need to accept what you've already become. There's no going back. They walk in silence a moment. Then:
darren		Why did Crepsley make himself an exile anyhow?
gavner purl		He was tired of all the killing. We were at war.
darren		With the vampaneze?
gavner purl		Crepsley was once a Vampire General. One of our great leaders. He may seem reluctant, but I assure you, no one is as skilled at killing vampaneze than Crepsley is. I think that's why they'd like to get him out of the way. Kill him off before the new war starts.
darren		You've known him a long time?
gavner purl		I was his assistant. He blooded me, as he blooded you. There's almost something comforting in this news. Gavner Purl so proud and strong looking. Darren wants to know...
darren		Why'd he choose you?
gavner purl		To teach me to kill vampaneze. Up until now, it's the only reason he ever chooses anyone.
darren		Is it why he chose me? Gavner hesitates, not sure.
gavner purl		That's for Crepsley to say. Not me. Another brick wall, but Darren accepts it.
gavner purl		Do you know what the biggest danger is to a vampire, Darren?
darren		The vampaneze? Mr. Tiny?
gavner purl		No. It's that they live so long they no longer care. Everything they love is left behind until they finally have nothing left to live for. Except death. The fact that he's taken an apprentice seems, to me, a good sign. A sign that he's thinking of living not dying.
darren		Lucky for me. Glad I could help. All the same Darren considers what he's heard. Gavner, meanwhile, considers the open countryside ahead.
gavner purl		A clear run. Good. Gavner gives Darren one last appraising look.
gavner purl		Stay by him, Darren. Stay by him. Gavner takes a deep breath. The air around him shimmers, his image bouncing in and out of phase like an electron heating up. And then he's gone.
darren		That part is definitely cool.
darren		Nothing.
darren		Don't know. I'm congested.
their pov		Debbie and Sam ducking inside the factory.
evra		Let's scare the crap out of him... They begin to creep in, flanking the unsuspecting Sam. But as they get close, a SHAPE drops down behind them!
debbie		You should see the look on your faces. But Evra and Darren are not laughing.
evra		What're you doing here?
debbie		We could ask you the same thing. We come here all the time. My grandfather used to work here.
darren		Must've been a long time ago.
debbie		He says now it's like one of those bombed out World War II cathedrals. Empty of what is used to be. An odd little moment till Sam breaks it.
sam		Hey, we loved the show, man. It was off the hook.
evra		 Off the hook, huh? I'll tell all the freaks you said so.
sam		Are you guys on your own? Just traveling. No parents or nothing?
darren		No. No parents. He says it with a little twinge that Debbie picks up on.
sam		School?
evra		No school either.
sam		You're the luckiest guys on earth. Wanna switch places?
darren		You have to be different to be here.
debbie		Different how? Evra steps into a slash of sunlight and his skin flashes to life, the green of his scales catching the rays. Debbie's mouth drops. They couldn't see it in the dark last night.
evra		Everyone has a place they belong. The Cirque du Freak is ours.
debbie		I think your skin is beautiful. That wins Evra over.
debbie		Can I touch it? Evra holds out his arm. Debbie traces a finger across it.
debbie		Wow. Has it always been this way?
darren		He's a snake-boy.
debbie		You shouldn't call him names because he looks different.
evra		It's okay. I am a snake boy.
sam		You could say you're dermatologically challenged. They all LAUGH. Debbie considers Evra a beat, then Darren.
debbie		What about you, Darren? How are you different?
darren		I get scared easy. Darren looks up toward the rafters. From where she dropped.
darren		How'd you get up there anyhow?
debbie		You mean, how did a girl get up there?
evra		Hey, be careful.
sam		Don't worry. She's like a gymnast. Debbie moves slowly at first, her arms stretched out for balance. Then she does a hop, a skip. Darren and Evra gasp. She gets to the other side, turns and bows.
darren		You're crazy!
debbie		How about you?
darren		I got nothing to prove.
debbie		But it'd be easier for you than me.
darren		Why's that?
debbie		Because chickens have wings. She starts chicken CLUCKING. Mad, Darren steps onto a rafter, starts across. He stops in the middle, spins around. Aided immeasurably by his half-vampire skills.
angle overhead		The vertigo angle as Debbie walks back out on her rafter. Stops about 4-feet across from Darren.
debbie		Let's play mirrors.
darren		What's that?
debbie		I do something and you have to copy me. Like this. Debbie crosses her arms the same way Darren has. He uncrosses them as he realizes. Debbie reaches down, touches her toes. Darren sighs, then does the same, gets a good look at the floor below. Debbie takes one foot off the rafter, takes hold of the top of it with one hand, raising the other arm out for balance. Looks like a ballerina. Evra doesn't like this daredevil stuff.
evra		Come on, guys... Darren hesitates. Not because he won't do it, but because maybe for the first time in his life, he's really fascinated by a girl. Debbie misreads, starts CLUCKING again. Darren smiles, repeats her move effortlessly. Without warning, Debbie leaps the gap, lands on the rafter alongside Darren. As she struggles a bit for balance, Darren reaches out and steadies her. As they come face to face.
debbie		There definitely something different about you. I just can't figure it out.
darren		Is Sam your boyfriend?
debbie		He's my cousin.
darren		Oh... A funny, awkward beat out on the rafter. Finally...
darren		We should get off this. She nods, a bit smitten. Darren turns. As they start off...
darren		Chalk it up to lack of blood, but everything starts spinning.
darren's pov		The area is like a big drain and he's whirling down it.
rafter		Darren legs go out and he falls off. As Debbie screams... Darren CATCHES HOLD of the rafter just as he drops past it.
debbie		Hold on. Debbie grabs his arm. Evra starts out to help, but the rafter CREAKS OMINOUSLY. He stops. Sam states the obvious.
sam		I don't think it'll hold you, dude.
evra		Thanks for the heads up... Bro.
darren		 It's okay. I'm okay. Darren swings up a leg, hooks it over the rafter. A beat and he's back on top. Debbie relieved. Evra backs up the way he came and in a few seconds they're all safely off the rafter.
debbie		I don't know how you hung on. I couldn't have.
darren		You wouldn't have fallen in the first place... I just got dizzy.
debbie		Maybe you need to eat something. Darren looks at her. She has no idea.
evra		Well, the food's down on ground level. Let's get out of here. Sam and Debbie start off, Darren and Evra following. As Sam and Debbie start down a ladder, Darren hangs back a beat.
darren		She's kind'of cool, huh? I mean, for a girl.
evra		I like her. She asks a lot of questions though.
darren		She's just curious.
evra		There's no such thing as 'just' with a girl.
darren		What makes you such an expert?
evra		My snake's a girl.
crepsley		Good morning, Darren.
darren		What's good about it? Crepsley looks him over, doesn't like what he sees.
darren		He stops as Sam and Debbie catch up with him.
sam debbie		Hey, Darren. Hi... Darren's happy to see them.
darren		You guys are coming to the show again tonight?
debbie		Of course. Evra's doing his snake act tonight.
darren		Oh, you came to see Evra.
debbie		And you... Darren smiles shyly at that.
sam		I was hoping for Amanda Bynes. Darren sees Crepsley watching him from the tent.
darren		Hey, I'll catch up with you later. I got some stuff I gotta finish up.
sam		He's gonna be gone in another day or two. Tonight's the last show.
debbie		I know that. So?
sam		So stop looking at him like you love him.
debbie		You're such an idiot, Sam.
tent opening		Darren joins Crepsley, a little unsteady.
crepsley		Look at you. You can barely stand.
darren		I'm fine.
crepsley		You need to feed. You need blood..
darren		No! I won't let you hunt some poor person down for me. I -- Crepsley grabs hold of Darren, hauls him into...
the tent		Dark, the inside walls richly embroidered. Medieval.
crepsley		No need to hunt. There's someone here willing to save you. From the shadows: Madam Truska. Startlingly beautiful. She steps up. Eyes on Darren, she offers Crepsley her wrist.
madam truska		By my own free will, Darren Shan. As Crepsley's fingernail hovers, ready to open a vein. Darren shakes his head. 'No'.
crepsley		Drink or you'll die.
darren		No. I can't. I'm human. Crepsley releases Truska's arm.
crepsley		You're not! And you'll be nothing! Darren stands there as noble and sad as a boy could be.
darren		I am human. In my heart I am. A great big TEAR rolls down Truska's cheek. That's the last thing Crepsley needed to see. He's defeated.
voice		An usher in the house of usher. And I can't seem to find a seat. Darren frowns at the odd voice, but leads down the aisle.
darren		This way. Darren brings him down to a handful of seats. The figure looks up from under the brim of his hat. It's Mr. Tiny.
darren		I don't think so. As Darren moves to go, Mr. Tiny clamps a hand around his wrist. Like iron. He sits, pulling Darren down beside him.
darren		He said you can't be explained. You need to be experienced.
debbie		Hey, Darren. Darren looks up to see Debbie and Sam. Oh no...
debbie		We're gonna sit on this side.
sam		Cuz we miss you so much. She digs Sam with her elbow. They sit just a row in front.
darren		You've chosen the vampaneze. Mr. Tiny laughs, slaps his knee even.
darren		Terrible profits.
darren		What prophesy?
darren		I think you're a creep. I think you suck.
debbie		He was great! As she looks back to the stage someone sits on Darren's other side. Collar pulled up, head wrapped in a scarf. Murlough!
murlough		 Is it Dar-wren's girlfriend?
darren		Forget about her -- Murlough takes hold of Darren's other wrist. Still low:
murlough		She has plenty of lovely blood inside. Inside, outside, hmmm? Darren struggles. Murlough pulls him close, HISSES in his ear, flashing those filthy teeth.
murlough		I don't care about humans. I don't care about you. But the vampire - Larten Crepsley - him I care about.
darren		You guys are in trouble. There's more than one vampire now. Gavner Purl is here. Murlough reacts to the name. Does not like it.
murlough		Have you seen Purl Gavner's face? Young Murlough sliced it for him.
crepsley		Holding Madam Octa's cage. Aware something's 'in the air'.
murlough		Shimmers, phases into flit mode. Disappears.
darren		Crepsley! Look out! The audience LAUGHS. Like Darren's worried about Madam Octa. Debbie looks back, knows something is wrong. Sees Mr. Tiny's hand around Darren's wrist.
stage		As Murlough 'appears' alongside Crepsley. Madam Octa's cage drops to the stage as Murlough knocks Crepsley fifteen feet through the air. He lands flat on his back. The audience CHEER! Think it's part of the show. Murlough reaches into his jacket, produces a razor-sharp LONG KNIFE in either hand. Crepsley pops to his feet. As his own single BLADE 'switches' to life in his hand...
stage		CHEERS as Murlough charges forward, the long knives pinwheeling in his hands. His attack is brutal and blunt. Crepsley is driven back, parrying each thrust and attack as it comes. Sparks fly as the blades connect. From out of nowhere, Crepsley adds a BACKHAND to the mix. It catches Murlough hard across the chops.
off stage		Mr. Tall and Evra watch. Not knowing what to do.
stage		Murlough swings back wildly. Crepsley catches the blade in Murlough's left hand with the one in his right. Crepsley catches Murlough's left wrist, the second blade dangerously close to retracing the scar on Crepsley's face. Crepsley throws himself back, sending Murlough head over heels across the stage and SLAMMING into a concrete wall.
darren		Concentrating. Trying to flit.
stage		Murlough rolls to his feet, charges. It's brute force versus style. But as Crepsley moves to sidestep, Murlough's not so brutish after all. He matches the move -- Buries one of his knives into Crepsley's stomach. Crepsley reacts, frozen in shock.
stage		Darren reappears, leaps onto Murlough's back, knocks him off target. As Murlough staggers right, Crepsley staggers left. Murlough regroups, charges after him. Badly hurt, stumbling, Crepsley falls off the edge of the stage. Disappears. ROARING, Murlough grabs Darren. They disappear as well.
crepsley		Reacting to Murlough's voice.
evra		Reacting as Debbie and Sam arrive. They move toward it.
crepsley		Listening as the scream fades off. Clutching his stomach, Crepsley moves.
murlough		Crepsley will come for his assistant.
darren		He doesn't care about me.
murlough		Murlough has an assistant, too. A smart one, smarter than you. As Murlough says this, Darren looks past as stepping up, grinning, is Murlough's assistant.
darren		Steve? Steve! Steve holds up his hands so Darren can see the WHITE SCAR on the tip of each finger. He gets closer.
steve		Mr. Tiny made my dream come true. Only better. I'm half vampaneze instead of a stupid half vampire. Mr. Tiny says I have a destiny. He says he's gonna make sure of it.
darren		Is that who you talked to? Was that the internet guy? Mr. Tiny?
steve		He gave me back the dream you stole. Murlough motions Steve quiet, slaps a hand over Darren's mouth. Listens. Smiles. Whispers.
murlough		Crepsley comes.
sam		Where'd he go? They jump as Crepsley appears right in front of them.
crepsley		Evra... Get them out of here.
evra		You guys better go back.
sam		What are you gonna do?
evra		Darren's my friend.
debbie		Ours too. Sam's not so sure, but he nods in agreement.
darren's pov		Sweeping the room. Wait! It fixes on a doorway. There's Crepsley. Looking about, everywhere but at Darren.
boiler room		Crepsley speaks to 'the room'.
crepsley		I can smell it. Why does it hide?
murlough		The vampire will die.
crepsley		Even the creatures of the night watch too much TV. Darren swings past through the middle of it all. Murlough charges. Crepsley sidesteps Darren, decides to take the fight higher. He leaps up, swings himself up onto one of the catwalks. Murlough follows. They use the room steel as monkey bars as they climb, clash. Violent, quick attacks. Crepsley gaining a position, abandoning it as Murlough SLAMS in.
darren		Has lost sight of them, he can only hear the battle now. He reacts as Evra, Debbie and Sam rush out. Evra takes hold, lifts, tries to lessen the load on the chain.
evra		Sam, unhook his legs. As Sam struggles, Debbie pulls the rag from Darren's mouth.
darren		Are you guys nuts? Get outta here!
evra		It's against our code. Suddenly unhooked, Darren hits the ground. He looks up at Evra who grins down at him.
evra		Never leave a freak behind.
ceiling superstructure		On the catwalks Murlough draws his knives. Crepsley jumps to the space he wants to defend, draws his own. Murlough counters. Two very serious predators'-at work. The animal kingdom at its killing best. A charge. Murlough a bull, Crepsley a matador. He redirects one of Murlough's arcing arms, smashing it against a metal housing. One of the vampaneze's knives clatters away. It's not graphic or bloody, but several times Crepsley's knife finds its way into Murlough's body. It enrages him, but Crepsley continues dealing out punishment. He's now like a brilliant counter-puncher, even as he inadvertently backs his way into a corner. But as quarters close in, Murlough's rage works to his advantage. He charges into Crepsley, his lowered shoulder sending Crepsley through the air and into... And through a BRICK WALL. Into the thin air outside! Still raging, Murlough nearly falls through himself. Instead, he slips, drops about twenty feet down inside the building!
evra		Come on!
darren		Evra. I think I'm dying. He looks horrible.
debbie		Let's carry him if we have to. Evra and Sam support him on either side. They continue, start across part of a darkened backstage area. A dark rectangular shape looms ahead. We hear a GUTTURAL GROWL, sees eyes glow in the gloom. They freeze.
evra		It's okay. It's the wolfman. He's in his cage. They move forward again, the cage becomes visible. But another SHAPE beside it. Steve. He sets his hand on the cage's heavy latch. He's going to open it.
evra		No don't!
steve		Ooops... Steve lifts the latch. Even he doesn't expect the force the wolfman hits the door with. Whaanngg! It's out. Evra steps bravely forward. The wolfman sends him flying. Sam can't hold Darren up by himself. He doesn't even see the Wolfman leap over. As Darren sinks to the floor... The wolfman tears into Sam...
debbie		Reacts in horror.
steve		He's more surprised than shocked. Until the wolfman looks his way. Then he heads for the hills, disappears into the dark. The wolfman turns back toward Debbie. She backs away, takes off up a rickety stairway. The wolfman HOWLS, then follows. Darren's too weak to follow, near tears in frustration and regret. He watches after them, then he looks over at Sam. Sam who is dying. Just a few feet away. His eyes flicker to Darren's. He tries to say something, but can't.
darren		Oh Sam. Oh no... Darren crawls over, takes Sam's bloody hand.
sam		Go save Debbie, Darren... Sam manages the smallest smile. As his eyes drift shut...
sam		I think she loves you... From above, we hear Debbie SCREAM. Darren considers Sam's blood, knows what he has to do. Leave his humanity behind and cross the line. He needs to drink Sam's blood.
darren		Forgive me, Sam, but I need strength. I need blood. As Darren extends his nails over Sam's wrist...
darren		We're going to save her together.
steve		Is Crepsley dead?
murlough		Who knows? Young Murlough lives, but he's hurt.
steve		What can I do?
murlough		What can Dar-wren's girlfriend do? We need to get the blood inside outside. Don't we? Then we hear it: a blood-curdling scream filters up. It's:
upper floor		Murlough, looming over Debbie, smiles as Darren arrives.
darren		Let her go.
steve		Stop being a big shot. This isn't like stopping some fight at school.
darren		Shut up, Steve.
murlough		You need to stand still so you can die. But as he attempts to pull his arm back through, he can't. He frowns. Then his eyes widen in pain. Murlough jerks his arm back as hard as he can. The wall smashes open as Murlough brings his arm back through with Crepsley hanging onto the end of it.
factory space		The audience who remain chanting: "Refund! Refund!" They react as debris falls from above, smashes to the stage.
factory space		SCREAMS from the audience as Murlough descends. Somewhere in mid-fall, Crepsley FLITS, disappears. When Murlough hits the center of the stage, he hits it alone. Dead. As people start for the exits, we see Mr. Tiny'is among them.
upper floor		But as Darren stands, it's not over. Steve grabs Debbie, pushes her to the edge where the rafters are.
steve		Stay back! Or I'll throw her off! I mean it! It sounds like he does. Darren looks intently at Debbie. She looks back. Then, Darren makes CHICKEN CLUCK SOUNDS. Understanding, Debbie tears herself away. To the precipice. But instead of falling, she continues out on a rafter. Steve slides out after her. But as he reaches for her, she deftly skips across the rafters, jumps back to the floor. Before Steve can follow, Darren cuts him off. Below them: rows of jagged, rusty pipes. The remains of a pumping station. Shredded now, broken. Waiting to impale.
darren		It's over, Steve.
steve		Is it? Steve lunges. They come together, trading shots, stumbling but still having to make the rafters. A missed footfall will be their last. They separate, try to gain position.
steve		You wanna hear something funny? After your funeral, I went to see your parents. They continue circling.
steve		And they were fine. They acted like they barely remembered you.
darren		Liar.
darren		Did you steal money from my mom's purse?
steve		What?
darren		Did you? Darren hanging there, dead grim. Steve's curious.
steve		Why do you ask? Is knowing that gonna help you rest in peace?
darren		No. It's just practically the last thing that ever happened between me and my dad was I was arguing with him.
darren		I was telling him he was wrong about you. That's the last time we had together. Fighting about you.
steve		Hate to tell ya. Your dad was right. How do you think we got the money for the dumb tickets? I took it. Just like I'm gonna take you. Steve jams his foot down into Darren's face, but Darren hangs on. In fact, with a superhuman surge, he hauls himself up, no matter how many times Steve hits him.
darren		I miss him.
darren		Do you understand?
darren		I miss him so much. WHAM! Steve's arm pinwheel for balance. He's going over. But just as he pitches off the end rafter... Darren catches him by his belt. Nearly bent backward, he hangs back over the abyss. If Darren lets go, Steve will fall into the spikes below. Crespley steps up beside Debbie, knows what Darren should do.
crepsley		Kill him, Darren. Do it now so you won't have to do it later. Darren looks at Steve. A moment they'll remember forever.
darren		Start running. Don't ever stop. Steve hesitates. It wasn't supposed to be like this. Darren starts off the rafter toward him. One last look of hate.
steve		Next time... And he's gone. Disappearing into the dark. Darren joins Debbie. Nothing left to hide.
debbie		Sam? Darren shakes his head. Sam didn't make it.
darren		Are you gonna be okay?
crepsley		I just need to catch my breath. For a few days. Maybe a week.
darren		You think I made a mistake, don't you?
crepsley		No. I think that you proved yourself human after all. Human. As Darren absorbs this kindness, smiles.
darren		Half human. What now?
crepsley		What do you mean?
darren		There's a war on, isn't there? Crepsley shrugs.
darren		This world is crossed by fences. You have to decide which side you stand on.
crepsley		Yes, yes. Black and white fences crossing very gray fields.
darren		It's not gray. I've met the bad guys. They need to be stopped.
crepsley		I'm not sure it's my fight.
darren		But you said it. There's no in between. And the power of being alone is never going to be greater than the weakness. It's our fight.
crepsley		His blood is in you.
debbie		Say what happened. Some crazy guy showed up. Sam was in the wrong place at the wrong time. They're all quiet a moment.
evra		He was brave.
darren		He didn't die in vain. A beat.
crepsley		Actually, that's exactly what it does. Mr. Tall manages a smile, considers the sky a moment.
crepsley		Yes. Keep my coffin ready, would you?
debbie		Do you think we'll meet again?
darren		You never know. As she hugs him tight, she whispers in his ear:
debbie		I hope so...
darren		Where are we going?
crepsley		To meet the Vampire Generals. War clouds are forming. A storm is coming. And I have a feeling you're needed much more than I am.
darren		So what are we waiting for? Let's go. Crepsley offers his hand.
crepsley		Take my arm. Darren shakes his head, doesn't need it. He shimmers, flits into the night. Crepsley laughs to himself. As he follows...
****Dialogues from script :Citizen_Kane.txt****

citizen kane		 Citizen Kane  By  Herman J. Mankiewicz  &  Orson Welles
prologue		 FADE IN:  EXT. XANADU - FAINT DAWN - 1940   Window, very small in the distance, illuminated.  All around this is an almost totally black screen.  Now, as the camera moves slowly towards the window which is almost a postage stamp in the frame, other forms appear; barbed wire, cyclone fencing, and now, looming up against an early morning sky, enormous iron grille work.  Camera travels up what is now shown to be a gateway of gigantic proportions and holds on the top of it - a huge initial "K" showing darker and darker against the dawn sky.  Through this and beyond we see the fairy-tale mountaintop of Xanadu, the great castle a sillhouette as its summit, the little window a distant accent in the darkness.
dissolve:		 A SERIES OF SET -UPS, EACH CLOSER TO THE GREAT WINDOW, ALL TELLING SOMETHING OF:  The literally incredible domain of CHARLES FOSTER KANE.  Its right flank resting for nearly forty miles on the Gulf Coast, it truly extends in all directions farther than the eye can see.  Designed by nature to be almost completely bare and flat - it was, as will develop, practically all marshland when Kane acquired and changed its face - it is now pleasantly uneven, with its fair share of rolling hills and one very good- sized mountain, all man-made.  Almost all the land is improved, either through cultivation for farming purposes of through careful landscaping, in the shape of parks and lakes.  The castle dominates itself, an enormous pile, compounded of several genuine castles, of European origin, of varying architecture - dominates the scene, from the very peak of the mountain.  DISSOLVE:  GOLF LINKS   Camera moves in until the frame of the window fills the frame of the screen.  Suddenly, the light within goes out.  This stops the action of the camera and cuts the music which has been accompanying the sequence.  In the glass panes of the window, we see reflected the ripe, dreary landscape of Mr. Kane's estate behind and the dawn sky.  DISSOLVE:  INT. KANE'S BEDROOM - FAINT DAWN -  A very long shot of Kane's enormous bed, silhouetted against the enormous window.  DISSOLVE:  INT. KANE'S BEDROOM - FAINT DAWN - SNOW SCENE.  An incredible one.  Big, impossible flakes of snow, a too picturesque farmhouse and a snow man.  The jingling of sleigh bells in the musical score now makes an ironic reference to Indian Temple bells - the music freezes -
narrator		 Here, for Xanadu's landlord, will be held 1940's biggest, strangest funeral; here this week is laid to rest a potent figure of our Century - America's Kubla Kahn - Charles Foster Kane.  In journalism's history, other names are honored more than Charles Foster Kane's, more justly revered.  Among publishers, second only to James Gordon Bennet the First: his dashing, expatriate son; England's Northcliffe and Beaverbrook; Chicago's Patterson and McCormick;
narrator		Denver's Bonfils and Sommes; New York's late, great Joseph Pulitzer; America's emperor of the news syndicate, another editorialist and landlord, the still mighty and once mightier Hearst.  Great names all of them - but none of them so loved, hated, feared, so often spoken - as Charles Foster Kane. The San Francisco earthquake. First with the news were the Kane papers.  First with Relief of the Sufferers, First with the news of their Relief of the Sufferers. Kane papers scoop the world on the Armistice - publish, eight hours before competitors, complete details of the Armistice teams granted the Germans by Marshall Foch from his railroad car in the Forest of Compeigne.  For forty years appeared in Kane newsprint no public issue on which Kane papers took no stand. No public man whom Kane himself did not support or denounce - often support, then denounce.  Its humble beginnings, a dying dailey -
narrator		Kane's empire, in its glory, held dominion over thirty-seven newpapers, thirteen magazines, a radio network.  An empire upon an empire.  The first of grocery stores, paper mills, apartment buildings, factories, forests, ocean-liners - An empire through which for fifty years flowed, in an unending stream, the wealth of the earth's third richest gold mine...  Famed in American legend is the origin of the Kane fortune... How, to boarding housekeeper Mary Kane, by a defaulting boarder, in 1868 was left the supposedly worthless deed to an abandoned mine shaft: The Colorado Lode. The magnificent Enquirer Building of today.
narrator		Fifty-seven years later, before a Congressional Investigation, Walter P.  Thatcher, grand old man of Wall Street, for years chief target of Kane papers' attack on "trusts," recalls a journey he made as a youth...
thatcher		...  because of that trivial incident...
investigator		It is a fact, however, is it not, that in 1870, you did go to Colorado?
thatcher		I did.
investigator		In connection with the Kane affairs?
thatcher		Yes.  My firm had been appointed trustees by Mrs. Kane for the fortune, which she had recently acquired.  It was her wish that I should take charge of this boy, Charles Foster Kane.
narrator		That same month in Union Square -
investigator		Is it not a fact that on that occasion, the boy personally attacked you after striking you in the stomach with a sled?
thatcher		Mr. Chairman, I will read to this committee a prepared statement I have brought with me - and I will then refuse to answer any further questions.  Mr.  Johnson, please!
thatcher		 "With full awareness of the meaning of my words and the responsibility of what I am about to say, it is my considered belief that Mr. Charles Foster Kane, in every essence of his social beliefs and by the dangerous manner in which he has persistently attacked the American traditions of private property, initiative and opportunity for advancement, is - in fact - nothing more or less than a Communist."
speaker		 - till the words "Charles Foster Kane" are a menace to every working man in this land.  He is today what he has always been and always will be - A FASCIST!
narrator		And yet another opinion - Kane's own.
narrator		Twice married, twice divorced - first to a president's niece, Emily Norton - today, by her second marriage, chatelaine of the oldest of England's stately homes.  Sixteen years after that - two weeks after his divorce from Emily Norton - Kane married Susan Alexander, singer, at the Town Hall in Trenton, New Jersey.
narrator		For wife two, one-time opera singing Susan Alexander, Kane built Chicago's Municipal Opera House. Cost: three million dollars. Conceived for Susan Alexander Kane, half-finished before she divorced him, the still unfinished Xanadu. Cost: no man can say.
narrator		One hundred thousand trees, twenty thousand tons of marble, are the ingredients of Xanadu's mountain. Xanadu's livestock: the fowl of the air, the fish of the sea, the beast of the field and jungle - two of each; the biggest private zoo since Noah.  Contents of Kane's palace: paintings, pictures, statues, the very stones of many another palace, shipped to Florida from every corner of the earth, from other Kane houses, warehouses, where they mouldered for years. Enough for ten museums - the loot of the world.
narrator		Kane urged his country's entry into one war, opposed participation in another.  Swung the election to one American President at least, was called another's assassin. Thus, Kane's papers might never have survived - had not the President.
narrator		Kane, molder of mass opinion though he was, in all his life was never granted elective office by the voters of his country.  Few U.S. news publishers have been. Few, like one-time Congressman Hearst, have ever run for any office - most know better - conclude with other political observers that one man's press has power enough for himself.  But Kane papers were once strong indeed, and once the prize seemed almost his.  In 1910, as Independent Candidate for governor, the best elements of the state behind him - the White House seemingly the next easy step in a lightning political career -
narrator		Then, suddenly - less than one week before election - defeat! Shameful, ignominious - defeat that set back for twenty years the cause of reform in the U.S., forever cancelled political chances for Charles Foster Kane.  Then, in the third year of the Great Depression...  As to all publishers, it sometimes must - to Bennett, to Munsey and Hearst it did - a paper closes!  For Kane, in four short years: collapse! Eleven Kane papers, four Kane magazines merged, more sold, scrapped -
narrator		Then four long years more - alone in his never-finished, already decaying, pleasure palace, aloof, seldom visited, never photographed, Charles Foster Kane continued to direct his falling empire ... vainly attempting to sway, as he once did, the destinies of a nation that has ceased to listen to him ... ceased to trust him...
narrator		Last week, death came to sit upon the throne of America's Kubla Khan - last week, as it must to all men, death came to Charles Foster Kane.
thompson's voice		Well?
a voice		See what Arthur Ellis wrote about him in the American review?
third man		I read it.
the voice		 Listen:  Kane is dead.  He contributed to the journalism of his day - the talent of a mountebank, the morals of a bootlegger, and the manners of a pasha.  He and his kind have almost succeeded in transforming a once noble profession into a seven percent security - no longer secure.
another voice		That's what Arthur Ellis is writing now.  Thirty years ago, when Kane gave him his chance to clean up Detroit and Chicago and St. Louis, Kane was the greatest guy in the world.  If you ask me -
another voice		Charles Foster Kane was a...
rawlston's voice		Just a minute!
rawlston		What were Kane's last words?
rawlston		What were the last words he said on earth?  Thompson, you've made us a good short, but it needs character -
somebody's voice		Motivation -
rawlston		That's it - motivation.  What made Kane what he was?  And, for that matter, what was he?  What we've just seen are the outlines of a career - what's behind the career? What's the man?  Was he good or bad?  Strong or foolish?  Tragic or silly?  Why did he do all those things?  What was he after?  Maybe he told us on his death bed.
thompson		Yes, and maybe he didn't.
rawlston		Ask the question anyway, Thompson! Build the picture around the question, even if you can't answer it.
thompson		I know, but -
rawlston		 All we saw on that screen was a big American -
a voice		One of the biggest.
rawlston		 But how is he different from Ford? Or Hearst for that matter?  Or Rockefeller - or John Doe?
a voice		I know people worked for Kane will tell you - not only in the newspaper business - look how he raised salaries.  You don't want to forget -
another voice		You take his labor record alone, they ought to hang him up like a dog.
rawlston		I tell you, Thompson - a man's dying words -
somebody's voice		What were they?
somebody's voice		 Yes, Mr. Rawlston, what were Kane's dying words?
rawlston		 Rosebud!
rawlston		That's right.
a voice		Tough guy, huh?  Dies calling for Rosebud!
rawlston		Here's a man who might have been President.  He's been loved and hated and talked about as much as any man in our time - but when he comes to die, he's got something on his mind called "Rosebud." What does that mean?
another voice		A racehorse he bet on once, probably, that didn't come in - Rosebud!
rawlston		All right.  But what was the race?
rawlston		Thompson!
thompson		Yes, sir.
rawlston		Hold this thing up for a week. Two weeks if you have to...
thompson		 But don't you think if we release it now - he's only been dead four days it might be better than if -
rawlston		 I don't mean go through the City Directory, of course -
thompson		I'll get to it right away, Mr. Rawlston.
rawlston		 Good!
rawlston's voice		It'll probably turn out to be a very simple thing...
the captain		 This is Mr. Thompson, Miss Alexander.
susan		 I want another drink, John.
the captain		 Right away.  Will you have something, Mr. Thompson?
thompson		 I'll have a highball.
susan		 Who told you you could sit down here?
thompson		Oh!  I thought maybe we could have a drink together?
susan		Think again!
susan		Why don't you people let me alone? I'm minding my own business.  You mind yours.
thompson		If you'd just let me talk to you for a little while, Miss Alexander. All I want to ask you...
susan		Get out of here!  Get out!  Get out!
thompson		I'm sorry.  Maybe some other time -
the captain		She's just not talking to anybody from the newspapers, Mr. Thompson.
thompson		I'm not from a newspaper exactly, I -
the captain		 Get her another highball.
the waiter		Another double?
the captain		 Yes.
thompson		She's plastered, isn't she?
the captain		She'll snap out of it.  Why, until he died, she'd just as soon talk about Mr. Kane as about anybody. Sooner.
thompson		I'll come down in a week or so and see her again.  Say, you might be able to help me.  When she used to talk about Kane - did she ever happen to say anything - about Rosebud?
the captain		Rosebud?
the captain		Thank you, sir.  As a matter of fact, yesterday afternoon, when it was in all the papers - I asked her.  She never heard of Rosebud.
bertha		 The directors of the Thatcher Library have asked me to remind you again of the condition under which you may inspect certain portions of Mr. Thatcher's unpublished memoirs.  Under no circumstances are direct quotations from his manuscript to be used by you.
thompson		That's all right.
bertha		You may come with me.
bertha		 Pages eighty-three to one hundred and forty-two, Jennings.
guard		Yes, Miss Anderson.
bertha		 You will confine yourself, it is our understanding, to the chapter dealing with Mr. Kane.
thompson		That's all I'm interested in.
bertha		You will be required to leave this room at four-thirty promptly.
thatcher's voice		Mrs. Kane -
thatcher's voice		think we'll have to tell him now -
thatcher		 Mr. Kane, the certificates that Mr.  Graves left here are made out to Mrs.  Kane, in her name.  Hers to do with as she pleases -
thatcher		The Bank's decision in all matters concerning his education, his place of residence and similar subjects will be final. 
thatcher		We will assume full management of the Colorado Lode - of which you, Mrs. Kane, are the sole owner.
thatcher		Right here, Mrs. Kane.
thatcher		The sum of fifty thousand dollars a year is to be paid to yourself and Mr. Kane as long as you both live, and thereafter the survivor -
kane		If the rebels want a fight boys, let's give it to 'em!
kane		The terms are underconditional surrender.  Up and at 'em!  The Union forever!
thatcher		 Everything else - the principal as well as all monies earned - is to be administered by the bank in trust for your son, Charles Foster Kane, until his twenty-fifth birthday, at which time he is to come into complete possession.
kane		You can't lick Andy Jackson!  Old Hickory, that's me!
thatcher's voice		It's nearly five, Mrs. Kane, don't you think I'd better meet the boy -
thatcher		I've arranged for a tutor to meet us in Chicago.  I'd have brought him along with me, but you were so anxious to keep everything secret -
kane		H'ya, Mom.
kane		 See, Mom?  I took the pipe out of his mouth.  If it keeps on snowin', maybe I'll make some teeth and -
thatcher		Charles, my name is Mr. Thatcher -
thatcher		How do you do, Charles?
kane		Hello.  Hello, Pop.
kane		You goin', Mom?
thatcher		Your mother won't be going right away, Charles -
kane		Where'm I going?
thatcher		 He certainly is.  I wish I were a little boy and going to make a trip like that for the first time.
kane		Why aren't you comin' with us, Mom?
thatcher		We're going to have a lot of good times together, Charles...  Really we are.
thatcher		Come on, Charles.  Let's shake hands.  Now, now!  I'm not as frightening as all that!  Let's shake, what do you say?
thatcher		 Sleds aren't to hit people with. Sleds are to - to sleigh on.  When we get to New York, Charles, we'll get you a sled that will -
kane		 Mom!  Mom!
kane		Mom!  Mom!
thatcher		 Is that really your idea of how to run a newspaper?
kane		I don't know how to run a newspaper, Mr. Thatcher.  I just try everything I can think of.
thatcher		 "Enemy Armada Off Jersey Coast." You know you haven't the slightest proof that this - this armada - is off the Jersey Coast.
kane		Can you prove it isn't?
kane		Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Thatcher -
bernstein		How are you, Mr. Thatcher?
thatcher		How do you do? -
bernstein		We just had a wire from Cuba, Mr. Kane - 
kane		That's all right.  We have no secrets from our readers.  Mr. Thatcher is one of our most devoted readers, Mr.  Bernstein.  He knows what's wrong with every issue since I've taken charge.  What's the cable?
bernstein		 The food is marvelous in Cuba the senoritas are beautiful stop I could send you prose poems of palm trees and sunrises and tropical colors blending in far off landscapes but don't feel right in spending your money for this stop there's no war in Cuba regards Wheeler.
thatcher		You see!  There hasn't been a true word -
kane		I think we'll have to send our friend Wheeler a cable, Mr. Bernstein.  Of course, we'll have to make it shorter than his, because he's working on an expense account and we're not.  Let me see -  Mike!
mike		 Go ahead, Mr. Kane.
kane		Dear Wheeler -  You provide the prose poems - I'll provide the war.
bernstein		That's fine, Mr. Kane.
kane		I rather like it myself.  Send it right away.
mike		Right away.
bernstein		Right away.
thatcher		I came to see you, Charles, about your - about the Enquirer's campaign against the Metropolitan Transfer Company.
kane		Won't you step into my office, Mr. Thatcher?
thatcher		I think I should remind you, Charles, of a fact you seem to have forgotten.  You are yourself one of the largest individual stockholders.
kane		Mr. Thatcher, isn't everything I've been saying in the Enquirer about the traction trust absolutely true?
thatcher		 They're all part of your general attack - your senseless attack - on everything and everybody who's got more than ten cents in his pocket.  They're -
kane		The trouble is, Mr. Thatcher, you don't realize you're talking to two people.
kane		As Charles Foster Kane, who has eighty-two thousand, six hundred and thirty-one shares of Metropolitan Transfer - you see, I do have a rough idea of my holdings - I sympathize with you.  Charles Foster Kane is a dangerous scoundrel, his paper should be run out of town and a committee should be formed to boycott him.  You may, if you can form such a committee, put me down for a contribution of one thousand dollars.
thatcher		 Charles, my time is too valuable for me -
kane		On the other hand -  I am the publisher of the Enquirer. As such, it is my duty - I'll let you in on a little secret, it is also my pleasure - to see to it that decent, hard-working people of this city are not robbed blind by a group of money - mad pirates because, God help them, they have no one to look after their interests!  I'll let you in on another little secret, Mr. Thatcher. I think I'm the man to do it.  You see, I have money and property -
kane		If I don't defend the interests of the underprivileged, somebody else will - maybe somebody without any money or any property and that would be too bad.
kane		Do you know how to tap, Mr. Thatcher?  You ought to learn - 
thatcher		I happened to see your consolidated statement yesterday, Charles. Could I not suggest to you that it is unwise for you to continue this philanthropic enterprise -  this Enquirer - that is costing you one million dollars a year?
kane		You're right.  We did lose a million dollars last year.
kane		We expect to lost a million next year, too.  You know, Mr. Thatcher -  at the rate of a million a year - we'll have to close this place in sixty years.
miss anderson		You have enjoyed a very rare privilege, young man.  Did you find what you were looking for?
thompson		No.  Tell me something, Miss Anderson.  You're not Rosebud, are you?
miss anderson		What?
thompson		I didn't think you were.  Well, thanks for the use of the hall.
bernstein		 Who's a busy man?  Me?  I'm Chairman of the Board.  I got nothing but time ...  What do you want to know?
thompson		 Well, Mr. Bernstein, you were with Mr.  Kane from the very beginning -
bernstein		From before the beginning, young fellow.  And now it's after the end.  Anything you want to know about him - about the paper -
thompson		-  We thought maybe, if we can find out what he meant by that last word - as he was dying -
bernstein		That Rosebud?  Maybe some girl? There were a lot of them back in the early days, and -
thompson		Not some girl he knew casually and then remembered after fifty years, on his death bed -
bernstein		You're pretty young, Mr. -  Well, so what are you doing about this "Rosebud," Mr. Thompson.
thompson		I'm calling on people who knew Mr. Kane.  I'm calling on you.
bernstein		Who else you been to see?
thompson		Well, I went down to Atlantic City -
bernstein		Susie?  I called her myself the day after he died.  I thought maybe somebody ought to...  She couldn't even come to the 'phone.
thompson		You know why?  She was so -
bernstein		Sure, sure.
thompson		I'm going back there.
bernstein		Who else did you see?
thompson		Nobody else, but I've been through that stuff of Walter Thatcher's. That journal of his -
bernstein		Thatcher!  That man was the biggest darn fool I ever met -
thompson		He made an awful lot of money.
bernstein		It's not trick to make an awful lot of money if all you want is to make a lot of money.  Thatcher!
bernstein		He never knew there was anything in the world but money.  That kind of fellow you can fool every day in the week - and twice on Sundays!  The time he came to Rome for Mr. Kane's twenty-fifth birthday... You know, when Mr. Kane got control of his own money...  Such a fool like Thatcher - I tell you, nobody's business!
bernstein		He knew what he wanted, Mr. Kane did, and he got it!  Thatcher never did figure him out.  He was hard to figure sometimes, even for me. Mr. Kane was a genius like he said. He had that funny sense of humor. Sometimes even I didn't get the joke.  Like that night the opera house of his opened in Chicago... You know, the opera house he built for Susie, she should be an opera singer...  That was years later, of course - 1914 it was.  Mrs. Kane took the leading part in the opera, and she was terrible.  But nobody had the nerve to say so - not even the critics.  Mr. Kane was a big man in those days.  But this one fellow, this friend of his, Branford Leland -
city editor		 What about Branford Leland?  Has he got in his copy?
hireling		Not yet.
bernstein		Go in and ask him to hurry.
city editor		Well, why don't you, Mr. Bernstein? You know Mr. Leland.
bernstein		 I might make him nervous.
city editor		 You and Leland and Mr. Kane - you were great friends back in the old days, I understand.
bernstein		 That's right.  They called us the "Three Musketeers."
city editor		He's a great guy - Leland.  Why'd he ever leave New York?
bernstein		 That's a long story.
another hireling		 Wasn't there some sort of quarrel between -
bernstein		 Leland is writing it up from the dramatic angle?
city editor		Yes.  I thought it was a good idea. We've covered it from the news end, of course.
bernstein		And the social.  How about the music notice?  You got that in?
city editor		Oh, yes, it's already made up. Our Mr. Mervin wrote a small review.
bernstein		Enthusiastic?
city editor		Yes, very!  Naturally.
bernstein		Well, well - isn't that nice?
kane's voice		Mr. Bernstein -
bernstein		Hello, Mr. Kane.
city editor		Mr. Kane, this is a surprise!
kane		We've got a nice plant here.
kane		Was the show covered by every department?
city editor		Exactly according to your instructions, Mr. Kane.  We've got two spreads of pictures.
kane		 And the notice?
city editor		Yes - Mr. Kane.
kane		 Is it good?
city editor		Yes, Mr. kane.
city editor		But there's another one still to come - the dramatic notice.
kane		 It isn't finished?
city editor		No, Mr. Kane.
kane		That's Leland, isn't it?
city editor		Yes, Mr. Kane.
kane		Has he said when he'll finish?
city editor		We haven't heard from him.
kane		He used to work fast - didn't he, Mr. Bernstein?
bernstein		He sure did, Mr. Kane.
kane		Where is he?
another hireling		Right in there, Mr. Kane.
bernstein		 MR. KANE -
kane		That's all right, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein		Leland and Mr. Kane - they haven't spoke together for ten years. 
bernstein		Hey, Brad!  Brad!  He ain't been drinking before, Mr. Kane.  Never.  We would have heard.
kane		 What does it say there?
kane		What's he written?
bernstein		 I can't pronounce that name, Mr. Kane.
kane		Thais.
kane		 Go on!
bernstein		 That's all there is.
kane		Of her acting, it is absolutely impossible to say anything except that it represents a new low...  Have you got that, Mr. Bernstein? In the opinion of this reviewer -
bernstein		 I didn't see that.
kane		It isn't here, Mr. Bernstein.  I'm dictating it.
bernstein		 I can't take shorthand.
kane		Get me a typewriter.  I'll finish the notice.
bernstein		He finished it.  He wrote the worst notice I ever read about the girl he loved.  We ran it in every paper.
thompson		 I guess Mr. Kane didn't think so well of Susie's art anyway.
bernstein		 He thought she was great, Mr. Thompson.  He really believed that. He put all his ambition on that girl.  After she came along, he never really cared for himself like he used to.  Oh, I don't blame Susie -
thompson		Well, then, how could he write that roast?  The notices in the Kane papers were always very kind to her.
bernstein		Oh, yes.  He saw to that.  I tell you, Mr. Thompson, he was a hard man to figure out.  He had that funny sense of humor.  And then, too, maybe he thought by finishing that piece he could show Leland he was an honest man.  You see, Leland didn't think so.  I guess he showed him all right.  He's a nice fellow, but he's a dreamer.  They were always together in those early days when we just started the Enquirer.
carter		Welcome, Mr. Kane, to the "Enquirer."  I am Herbert Carter.
kane		Thank you, Mr Carter.  This is Mr. Leland.
carter		 How do you do, Mr. Leland?
kane		 Are they standing for me?
carter		I thought it would be a nice gesture the new publisher -
kane		 Ask them to sit down.
carter		You may resume your work, gentlemen.  I didn't know your plans and so I was unable to make any preparations.
kane		I don't my plans myself.
kane		As a matter of fact, I haven't got any.  Except to get out a newspaper.
kane		Oh, Mr. Bernstein!
kane		If you would come here a moment, please, Mr. Bernstein?
kane		Mr. Carter, this is Mr. Bernstein. Mr. Bernstein is my general manager.
carter		 How do you do, Mr. Bernstein?
kane		You've got a private office here, haven't you?
carter		 My little sanctum is at your disposal.  But I don't think I understand -
kane		I'm going to live right here.  As long as I have to.
carter		But a morning newspaper, Mr. Kane. After all, we're practically closed twelve hours a day - except for the business offices -
kane		That's one of the things I think must be changed, Mr. Carter.  The news goes on for twenty-four hours a day.
kane		I'm not criticizing, Mr. Carter, but here's what I mean.  There's a front page story in the "Chronicle,"  A Mrs. Harry Silverstone.  Why didn't the "Enquirer" have that this morning?
carter		 Because we're running a newspaper, Mr.  Kane, not a scandal sheet.
kane		I'm still hungry, Brad.  Let's go to Rector's and get something decent.  The "Chronicle" has a two-column headline, Mr. Carter.  Why haven't we?
carter		There is no news big enough.
kane		If the headline is big enough, it makes the new big enough.  The murder of Mrs. Harry Silverstone -
carter		 Our man even arrived before the "Chronicle" reporter.  And there's no proof that the woman was murdered - or even that she's dead.
kane		 The "Chronicle" doesn't say she's murdered, Mr. Carter.  It says the neighbors are getting suspicious.
carter		 It's not our function to report the gossip of housewives.  If we were interested in that kind of thing, Mr. Kane, we could fill the paper twice over daily -
kane		 Have him tell Mr. Silverstone he's a detective from the Central Office. If Mr. Silverstone asks to see his badge, your man is to get indignant and call Mr. Silverstone an anarchist.
carter		Really, Mr. Kane, I can't see the function of a respectable newspaper -
kane		Oh, Mr. Bernstein!
kane		I've just made a shocking discovery. The "Enquirer" is without a telephone.  Have two installed at once!
bernstein		I ordered six already this morning! Got a discount!
carter		But, Mr. Kane -
kane		That'll be all today, Mr. Carter. You've been most understanding. Good day, Mr. Carter!
leland		Poor Mr. Carter!
kane		 What makes those fellows think that a newspaper is something rigid, something inflexible, that people are supposed to pay two cents for -
bernstein		 Three cents.
kane		 Two cents.
bernstein		 This is all figured at three cents a copy.
kane		Re-figure it, Mr. Bernstein, at two cents.
bernstein		 All right, but I'll keep these figures, too, just in case.
kane		Ready for dinner, Brad?
bernstein		Mr. Leland, if Mr. Kane, he should decide to drop the price to one cent, or maybe even he should make up his mind to give the paper away with a half-pound of tea - you'll just hold him until I get back, won't you?
leland		I'm not guaranteeing a thing, Mr. Bernstein.  You people work too fast for me!  Talk about new brooms!
bernstein		Who said anything about brooms?
kane		It's a saying, Mr. Bernstein.  A new broom sweeps clean.
bernstein		Oh!
smathers		But it's impossible, Mr. Kane.  We can't remake these pages.
kane		These pages aren't made up as I want them, Mr. Smathers.  We go to press in five minutes.
carter		 The "Enquirer" has an old and honored tradition, Mr. Kane... The "Enquirer" is not in competition with those other rags.
bernstein		We should be publishing such rags, that's all I wish.  Why, the "Enquirer" - I wouldn't wrap up the liver for the cat in the "Enquirer" -
carter		 Mr. Kane, I must ask you to see to it that this - this person learns to control his tongue.
carter		I've been a newspaperman my whole life and I don't intend -  I warn you, Mr. Kane, it would go against my grain to desert you when you need me so badly - but I would feel obliged to ask that my resignation be accepted.
kane		It is accepted, Mr. Carter, with assurances of my deepest regard.
carter		But Mr. Kane, I meant -
kane		 Let's remake these pages, Mr. Smathers.  We'll have to publish a half hour late, that's all.
smathers		 We can't remake them, Mr. Kane. We go to press in five minutes.
kane		You can remake them now, can't you, Mr. Smathers?
kane		After the types 've been reset and the pages have been remade according to the way I told you before, Mr. Smathers, kindly have proofs pulled and bring them to me.  Then, if I can't find any way to improve them again -  - I suppose we'll have to go to press.
bernstein		 In case you don't understand, Mr. Smathers - he's a new broom.
newsboys' voices		CHRONICLE!  CHRONICLE!  H'YA - THE CHRONICLE - GET YA!  CHRONICLE!
leland		We'll be on the street soon, Charlie - another ten minutes.
bernstein		 It's three hours and fifty minutes late - but we did it -
kane		Tired?
leland		It's been a tough day.
kane		A wasted day.
bernstein		 Wasted?
leland		 Charlie?!
bernstein		You just made the paper over four times today, Mr. Kane.  That's all -
kane		I've changed the front page a little, Mr. Bernstein.  That's not enough - There's something I've got to get into this paper besides pictures and print -  I've got to make the "New York Enquirer" as important to New York as the gas in that light.
leland		 What're you going to do, Charlie?
kane		My Declaration of Principles -  Take dictation, Mr. Bernstein -
bernstein		Can't take shorthand, Mr. Kane -
kane		I'll write it myself.
bernstein		 You don't wanta make any promises, Mr. Kane, you don't wanta keep.
kane		 will also provide them -
leland		That's the second sentence you've started with "I" -
kane		 And no special interests will be allowed to interfere with the truth of that news.
bernstein		 Sixty-two thousand -
leland		That looks pretty nice.
kane		 Let's hope they like it there.
bernstein		From the Chronicle Building that sign is the biggest thing you can see - every floor guaranteed - let's hope it bothers them - it cost us enough.
kane		 Look at that.
leland		The "Chronicle" is a good newspaper.
kane		It's a good idea for a newspaper.  Four hundred sixy thousand.
bernstein		Say, with them fellows -  - it's no trick to get circulation.
kane		You're right, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein		 You know how long it took the "Chronicle" to get that staff together?  Twenty years.
kane		I know.
photographer		That's all.  Thank you.
kane		 Make up an extra copy and mail it to the "Chronicle."
kane		Gentlemen of the "Enquirer"!  This has, I think, been a fitting welcome to those distinguished journalists -  Mr. Reilly in particular - who are the latest additions to our ranks. It will make them happy to learn that the "Enquirer's" circulation this morning passed the two hundred thousand mark.
bernstein		Two hundred and one thousand, six hundred and forty-seven.
kane		All of you - new and old -  You're all getting the best salaries in town.  Not one of you has been hired because of his loyalty. It's your talent I'm interested in.  That talent that's going to make the "Enquirer" the kind of paper I want - the best newspaper in the world!
kane		However, I think you'll agree we've heard enough about newspapers and the newspaper business for one night.  There are other subjects in the world.
the official		There you are, Mr. Kane.  Everything in order.
kane		Thank you.
the official		 Have a good rest, Mr. Kane.
kane		Thanks.
bernstein		But please, Mr. Kane, don't buy any more paintings.  Nine Venuses already we got, twenty-six Virgins - two whole warehouses full of stuff -
kane		I promise not to bring any more Venuses and not to worry - and not to try to get in touch with any of the papers -
steward's voice		All ashore!
kane		- and to forget about the new feature sections - and not to try to think up and ideas for comic sections.
steward's voice		All ashore that's going ashore!
kane		Goodbye, gents!  Hey!
kane		 You don't expect me to keep any of those promises, do you?
bernstein		Do you, Mr. Leland?
leland		 Certainly not.
kane		 Ask them to sit down, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein		Sit down, everybody - for heaven's sake!
bernstein		So then, tonight, we go over everything thoroughly, eh? Especially the new papers -
kane		We certainly do.  Vacation's over - starting right after dinner.  But right now - that lady over there -  - that's the new society editor, I take it?  You think I could interrupt her a moment, Mr. Bernstein?
bernstein		Huh?  Oh, I forgot - you've been away so long I forgot about your joking -
bernstein		Miss Townsend -
miss townsend		Good afternoon, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein		This is Mr. Kane, Miss Townsend.
kane		 Miss Townsend -
kane		I've been away for several months, and I don't know exactly how these things are handled now.  But one thing I wanted to be sure of is that you won't treat this little announcement any differently than you would any other similar announcement.
kane		 Read it, Miss Townsend.  And remember - just the regular treatment!  See you at nine o'clock, Mr. Bernstein!
miss townsend		 Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Moore Norton announce the engagement of their daughter, Emily Monroe Norton, to Mr.  Charles Foster Kane.
bernstein		 Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Moore Norton announce -
miss townsend		 She's - she's the niece of - of the President of the United States -
bernstein		 know.  Come on, Miss Townsend - From the window, maybe we can get a look.
bernstein		A girl like that, believe me, she's lucky!  Presiden't niece, huh! Say, before he's through, she'll be a Presiden't wife.
bernstein		The way things turned out, I don't need to tell you - Miss Emily Norton was no rosebud!
thompson		It didn't end very well, did it?
bernstein		 guess he didn't make her very happy -
thompson		Yes -
bernstein		Maybe that was something he lost. Mr. Kane was a man that lost - almost everything he had -  You ought to talk to Bradford Leland.  He could tell you a lot. I wish I could tell you where Leland is, but I don't know myself.  He may be out of town somewhere - he may be dead.
thompson		In case you'd like to know, Mr. Bernstein, he's at the Huntington Memorial Hospital on 180th Street.
bernstein		You don't say!  Why I had no idea -
thompson		Nothing particular the matter with him, they tell me.  Just - 
bernstein		Just old age.  You ought to see Mr. Leland. There's a whole lot of things he could tell you - if he wanted to.
leland's voice		When you get to my age, young man, you don't miss anything.  Unless maybe it's a good drink of bourbon. Even that doesn't make much difference, if you remember there hasn't been any good bourbon in this country for twenty years.
thompson		Mr. Leland, you were -
leland		You don't happen to have a cigar, do you?  I've got a young physician - must remember to ask to see his license - the odds are a hundred to one he hasn't got one - who thinks I'm going to stop smoking... I changed the subject, didn't I? Dear, dear!  What a disagreeable old man I've become.  You want to know what I think of Charlie Kane? Well - I suppose he has some private sort of greatness.  But he kept it to himself.  You're absolutely sure you haven't got a cigar?
thompson		Sorry, Mr. Leland.
leland		Never mind -  Bernstein told you about the first days at the office, didn't he?  Well, Charlie was a bad newspaper man even then.  He entertained his readers, but he never told them the truth.
thompson		Maybe you could remember something that -
leland		I can remember everything.  That's my curse, young man.  It's the greatest curse that's ever been inflicted on the human race.  Memory - I was his oldest friend.  As far as I was concerned, he behaved like swine.  Maybe I wasnt' his friend.  If I wasn't, he never had one.  Maybe I was what nowadays you call a stooge -
kane's voice		Not one of you has been hired because of his loyalty.  It's your talent I'm interested in.  That talent that's going to make the "Enquirer" the kind of paper I want - the best newspaper in the world!
bernstein		Isn't it wonderful?  Such a party!
leland		Yes.
kane's voice		However, I think you'll agree we've heard enough about newspapers and the newspaper business for one night.
bernstein		 What's the matter?
leland		Mr. Bernstein, these men who are now with the "Enquirer" - who were with the "Chronicle" until yesterday - weren't they just as devoted to the "Chronicle" kind of paper as they are now to - our kind of paper?
bernstein		Sure.  They're like anybody else. They got work to do.  They do it.  Only they happen to be the best men in the business.
kane		 There are other subjects in the world -
leland		 Do we stand for the same things that the "Chronicle" stands for, Mr. Bernstein?
bernstein		 Certainly not.  So what's that got to do with it?  Mr. Kane, he'll have them changed to his kind of newspapermen in a week.
leland		Probably.  There's always a chance, of course, that they'll change Mr. Kane - without his knowing it.
kane		Well, gentlemen, are we going to war?
leland		Our readers are, anyway, I don't know about the rest of the country.
kane		 By Bradford Leland, the "Enquirer's" Special Correspondent at the Front. I'm almost tempted -
leland		But there is no Front, Charlie. There's a very doubtful civil war. Besides, I don't want the job.
kane		All right, Brad, all right - you don't have to be a war correspondent unless you want to - I'd want to.  Hello, Georgie.
georgie		Is everything the way you want it, dear?
kane		 If everybody's having fun, that's the way I want it.
georgie		I've got some other little girls coming over -
leland		 Charles, I tell you there is no war!  There's a condition that should be remedied - but between that and a -
kane		 How would the "Enquirer" look with no news about this non-existent war - with Benton, Pulitzer and Heart devoting twenty columns a day to it?
leland		They do it only because you do!
kane		 I'm going over to Georgie's, Brad - you know, Georgie, don't you?
georgie		 Glad to meet you, Brad.
kane		I told you about Brad, Georgie. He needs to relax.
kane		Some ships with wonderful wines have managed to slip through the enemy fleet that's blockading New York harbor -  What's her name again?
georgie		 Ethel - this gentlemen has been very anxious to meet you -  This is Ethel.
ethel		Hello, Mr. Leland.
another girl		Is there a song about Charlie?
kane		Say, Brad.  I've got an idea.
leland		Yes?
kane		I mean I've got a job for you.
leland		Good.
kane		You don't want to be a war correspondent - how about being a dramatic critic?
leland		 I'd like that.
kane		You start tomorrow night.  Richard Carl in "The Spring Chicken."  Rector's at seven?
leland		Charlie -
kane		Yes?
leland		 It doesn't make any difference about me, but one of these days you're going to find out that all this charm of yours won't be enough -
kane		 Come to think of it, I don't blame you for not wanting to be a war correspondent.  You won't miss anything.  It isn't much of a war. Besides, they tell me there isn't a decent restaurant on the whole island.
kane		You don't expect me to keep any of those promises, do you?
bernstein		 Do you, Mr. Leland?
leland		 Certainly not.
bernstein		Mr. Leland, why didn't you go to Europe with him?  He wanted you to.  He said to me just yesterday -
leland		I wanted him to have fun - and with me along -
leland		Mr. Bernstein, I wish you'd let me ask you a few questions, and answer me truthfully.
bernstein		Don't I always?  Most of the time?
leland		Mr. Bernstein, am I a stuffed shirt? Am I a horse-faced hypocrite?  Am I a New England school-marm?
bernstein		Yes.
bernstein		If you thought I'd answer different from what Mr. Kane tells you - well, I wouldn't.
leland		 You're in a conspiracy against me, you two.  You always have been.
bernstein		Against me there should be such a conspiracy some time!
bernstein		 Well, he'll be coming back in September.  The Majestic.  I got the reservations.  It gets in on the ninth.
leland		September the ninth?
leland		I used to go to dancing school with her.
leland		What's this?
thompson		It's a letter from her lawyers.
thompson		Rawlston is my boss.
leland		Oh, yes.  I know about Mr. Rawlston.
thompson		He knows the first Mrs. Kane socially -  That's the answer we got.
leland		 I am in receipt of your favor of yesterday.  I beg you to do me the courtesy of accepting my assurance that Mrs. Whitehall cannot be induced to contribute any more information on the career of Charles Foster Kane.
leland		Brief marriage!  Ten years! 
thompson		Was he in love?
leland		He married for love -  That's why he did everything. That's why he went into politics. It seems we weren't enough.  He wanted all the voters to love him, too.  All he really wanted out of life was love.  That's Charlie's story - it's the story of how he lost it.  You see, he just didn't have any to give.  He loved Charlie Kane, of course, very dearly - and his mother, I guess he always loved her.  As for Emily - well, all I can tell you is Emily's story as she told it to me, which probably isn't fair - there's supposed to be two sides to every story - and I guess there are.  I guess there's more than two sides -
the president		It is the unanimous opinion of my Cabinent - in which I concur - that the proposed leases are in the best interests of the Governement and the people.  You are not, I hope, suggesting that these interests are not indentical?
kane		I'm not suggesting anything, Mr. President!  I've come here to tell you that, unless some action is taken promptly - and you are the only one who can take it - the oil that is the property of the people of this country will be turned over for a song to a gang of high- pressure crooks!
the president		 I must refuse to allow you to continue in this vein, Mr. Kane.
kane		 It's the only vein I know.  I tell the facts the way I see them.  And any man that knows that facts -
the president		I know the facts, Mr. Kane.  And I happen to have the incredible insolence to differ with you as to what they mean.  You're a man of great talents, Mr. Kane.
kane		Thanks.
the president		I understand that you have political ambitions.  Unfortunately, you seem incapable of allowing any other opinion but your own -
kane		 I'm much obliged, Mr. President, for your concern about me.  However, I happen to be concerned at this moment with the matter of extensive oil lands belonging to the people of the United States, and I say that if this lease goes through, the property of the people of the United States goes into the hands of -
the president		 You've made your point perfectly clear, Mr. Kane.  Good day.
kane		Mr. President.
foreman		How about it, Mr. Kane?
kane		All right.  Let her slide!
reilly		Looks bad for us, Mr. Kane.  How shall we handle it?
kane		It's a news story!  Get it on the street!
kane		 Take dictation -  Front page editorial -  "This afternoon a great man was assassinated.  He was the President of the United States -"
leland		Charlie -
kane		Yes?
leland		Do you think you're the one who should call him a great man?
kane		Why not?
leland		Why not?  Well - nobody's a great man in your estimation until he's dead.
reilly		 Maybe we'd better wait for more word on the President's condition.
kane		 What do you mean by that?
leland		 Competition.
reilly		He may recover -
kane		 What do you mean by that?
leland		 Yesterday morning you called the President a traitor.  What do you think that crowd is doing down there?  They think you murdered him.
kane		Because the crackpot who did it had a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket?
leland		- and that copy of the "Enquirer" said the President should be killed.
kane		I said treason was a capital offense punishable by death -
leland		You've said a lot of things about the President in the last few months.
kane		They're true!  Everything I said! Witholding that veto was treason!
leland		 Charlie!
kane		 Oil belonging to the people of the United States was leased out for a song to a gang of high-pressure crooks -  Nobody can blame me because -
leland		Look out that window.
leland		There are the people of the United States, and they are blaming you - Oh, I know it doesn't make any sense, but at least you can learn a lesson from it.
kane		 Run it the way I said, Reilly - "This afternoon a great man was assassinated -"
leland		Charlie!  Now you're not making sense.
kane		 I don't have to.  I run a newspaper with half a million readers and they're getting a martyred president this morning with their breakfast. I can't help that.  Besides, they all know I'm married to his niece. I've got to think of her.
leland		What?
kane		I've got to think of Emily -
leland		 I'd like to talk to you about that.
kane		Go ahead.
leland		Finish your editorial.
leland		 What's happened?
bernstein		 I'm all right, Mr. Leland.  Only there was some fellows out front that thought they ought to take things up with me.  I learned 'em! Didn't I, officer?
the cop		 You sure did -  Say, the Commissioner said I was to stand by and protect Mr. Kane until further orders, no matter how he felt about it.  Where is he?
leland		 In there.
bernstein		If you hadn't come along and protected me when you did, I'd have killed them fellows.
leland		 There doesn't seem to be an serious injury.
bernstein		Not to me.  But you will let that cop go home with Mr. Kane, won't you?
leland		Yes, Mr. Bernstein.
reilly		 Goodnight, Mr. Kane.
leland		First of all - 
kane		 What's wrong, Brad?
leland		I'm drunk.
kane		I'll get you some coffee.
leland		First of all, I will not write a good review of a play because somebody paid a thousand dollars for an advertisement in the "Enquirer."
kane		 Mike, will you try and get Mr. Leland some coffee?
mike's voice		Sure thing, Mr. Kane.
leland		Charlie, it's just no go.  We can't agree anymore.  I wish you'd let me go to Chicago.
kane		Why, Brad?
leland		I want to be transferred to the new paper.  You've been saying yourself you wish you had somebody to -  That's not what I wanted to talk about.
kane		I'll tell you what I'll do, Brad - I'll get drunk, too - maybe that'll help.
leland		No, that won't help.  Besides, you never get drunk.  I wanted to talk about you and Emily.
kane		 All right.
leland		 She's going to leave you -
kane		I don't think so, Brad.  We've just had word that the President is out of danger.  It seems I didn't kill him after all.
leland		 She was going to leave you anyway -
leland		Emily's going south next week with the child.  As far as anybody's to know, it's a holiday.  When they get back -
kane		 Brad, you are drunk.
leland		Sure I am.  She wants full custody of the child no matter what happens. If you won't agree to that, she'll apply for a divorce regardless of the President's wishes.  I can't tell her she's wrong, because she isn't wrong -
kane		Why is she leaving me?
leland		 She hasn't any friends left sine you started this oil business, and she never sees you.
kane		Do you think the "Enquirer" shouldn't have campaigned against the oil leases?
leland		 You might have made the whole thing less personal!
leland		It isn't just that the President was her uncle - everyone she knows, all the people she's been brought up with, everything she's ever been taught to believe is important -
leland		There's no reason why this - this savage personal note -
kane		The personal note is all there is to it.  It's all there ever is to it.  It's all there every is to anything!  Stupidity in our government, complacency and self- satisfaction and unwillingness to believe that anything done by a certain class of people can be wrong - you can't fight those things impersonally.  They're not impersonal crimes against people. They're being done by actual persons - with actual names and positions and - the right of the American people to own their own country is not an academic issue, Brad, that you debate - and then the judges retire to return a verdict and the winners give a dinner for the losers.
leland		You almost convince me.  You only associate with your inferiors, Charlie.  I guess that's why you ran away from Emily. Because you can't stand the company of your equals.  You don't like to admit they exist - the other big people in your world are dead. I told you that.
leland		You talk about the people of the United States as though they belonged to you.  When you find out they don't think they are, you'll lose interest.  You talk about giving them their rights as though you could make a present of liberty.  Remember the working man?  You used to defend him quite a good deal.  Well, he's turning into something called organized labor and you don't like that at all.  And listen, when your precious underprivileged really get together - that's going to add up to something bigger than - than your privilege and then I don't know what you'll do - sail away to a desert island, probably, and lord it over the monkeys.
kane		Are you finished?
leland		Yes.  Now, will you let me go to Chicago?
kane		 You're not going to like it in Chicago.  They wind comes howling in from the lake.  And there's practically no opera season at all - and the Lord only knows whether they've ever heard of Lobster Newburg -
leland		That's all right.  What are you going to do about Emily?
kane		 Nothing - if she dosen't love me -
leland		You want love on your own terms, don't you, Charlie -  Love according to your own rules. And if anything goes wrong and you're hurt - then the game stops, and you've got to be soothed and nursed, no matter what else is happening - and no matter who else is hurt!
kane		It's simpler than that, Brad.  A society girl can't stand the gaff, that's all.  Other things are important to her - social position, what they're saying on the front porches at Southampton, is it going to be embarrassing to meet somebody or the other at dinner -
kane		She can leave me.  As a matter of fact, I've already left her.  Don't worry, Brad - I'll live.
leland		I know you will.
kane		 Hey, Brad!  I've been analyzed an awful lot tonight - let's have another brandy.
kane		To love on my terms.  Those are the only terms anybody knows ... his own.
kane		Are you hurt?
leland		No.  I wish you'd go home to Emily. She'll be pretty upset by all this - She still loves you -
kane		You still want to be transferred to the other paper?
leland		Yes.
leland		 I couldn't possibly live on as little as that, Charlie.  We'll let the salary stay where it is.
kane		 Excuse us a moment, please.
kane		 I said, excuse us a moment.
kane		I've been talking to Leland.  Emily - You can't leave me now - not now -
kane		It isn't what it would do to my changes in politics, Emily -  That isn't it -  They were talking of running me for governor, but now, of course, we'll have to wait - It isn't that, Emily -  It's just - the president is your uncle and they're saying I killed him.
kane		That story about the murderer having a copy of the "Enquirer" in his pocket - the "Chronicle" made that up out of whole cloth -  Emily, please - He's going to be all right, you know, he's going to recover -  If it will make you any happier, we had nine pages of advertising cancelled in the first mail this morning.  Bernstein is afraid to open any more letters.  He -
kane		 What do you expect me to do?  What in the world -
emily		 Charles.
emily		Do you really think -  Those threatening letters, can they really -
kane		 Anonymous letter writers -   I've got guards in front of the house, and I'm going to arrange -
emily		 Please don't talk any more, Charles.
emily		Have they heard from father yet? Has he seen -
kane		I've tried to tell you, Emily. The President's going to be all right.  He had a comfortable night. There's no danger of any kind.
emily		 Here I am, darling...  Darling!... Darling, it's all right...  Mother's here.
kane		Emily - you musn't leave me now - you can't do that to me.
emily		They won't hurt you, darling. Mother's with you!  Mother's looking after you!
kane		We'll withdraw support completely. Anything else?
reilly		Mr. Leland sent back that check.
kane		What check?
reilly		You made it out to him last week after he left for Chicago.
kane		Oh, yes, the bonus.
reilly		It was for twenty-five thousand dollars.
reilly		He sent it back torn up - all torn up into little bits, and he enclosed something else -  I can't make it out.
reilly		It says here, "A Declaration of Principles" -  "I will provide the people of this city with a daily paper that will tell all the news honestly" -
kane		It is no secret that I entered upon this campaign with no thought that I could be elected Governor of this state!  It is now no secret that every straw vote, every independent pole, shows that I will be elected.  And I repeat to you - my first official act as Governor will be to appoint a special District Attorney to arrange for the indictment, prosecution and conviction of Boss Edward G. Rogers!
second leader		 One of the most notable public utterances ever made by a candidate in this state -
kane		Thank you, gentlemen.  Thank you.
reilly		A wonderful speech, Mr. Kane.
reilly		I just got word from Buffalo, Mr. Kane.  They're going to throw you the organization vote - and take a chance maybe you'll give them a break -
reilly		On an independent ticket there's never been anything like it!  If the election were held today, you'd be elected by a hundred thousand votes - and every day between now and November 7th is just going to add to your majority.
kane		It does seem too good to be true, doesn't it, Mr. Bernstein?
reilly		Rogers isn't even pretending.  He isn't just scared anymore.  He's sick.  Frank Norris told me last night he hasn't known Rogers to be that worried in twenty-five years.
kane		I think it's beginning to dawn on Mr. Rogers that I mean what I say. With Mr. Rogers out of the way, Reilly, I think we may really begin to hope for a good government in this state.  Well, Mr. Bernstein?
bernstein		 It's wonderful, Mr. Kane. Wonderful.  Wonderful.
kane		You don't really think so?
bernstein		I do.  I do.  I mean, since you're running for Governor - and you want to be elected -  I think it's wonderful you're going to be elected.  Only -  -  Can I say something?
kane		Please, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein		Well, the way I look at it -  -  You want to know what I really think would be wonderful?
bernstein		Well, you're running for Governor and going to be elected - my idea is how wonderful it would be if you don't run at all and don't get elected.
junior		Is Pop Governor yet, Mom?
kane		Hello, Butch!  Did you like your old man's speech?
junior		Hello, Pop!  I was in a box.  I could hear every word.
kane		I saw you!  Good night, gentlemen.
emily		I'm sending Junior home in the car, Charles - with Oliver -
kane		But I'd arranged to go home with you myself.
emily		There's a call I want you to make with me, Charles.
kane		It can wait.
emily		No, it can't.  Good night, darling.
junior		Good night, Mom.
kane		 What's this all about, Emily? I've had a very tiring day and -
emily		It may not be about anything at all.
the driver		Cab?
emily		I intend to find out.
kane		I insist on being told exactly what you have in mind.
emily		I'm going to -  - 185 West 74th Street.
emily		If you wish, you can come with me...
kane		I'll go with you.
kane		I had no idea you had this flair for melodrama, Emiliy.
the maid		Come in, Mr. Kane, come in.
susan		It wasn't my fault, Charlie.  He made me send your wife a note. He said I'd - oh, he's been saying the most terrible things, I didn't know what to do...  I - 
rogers		Good evening, Mr. Kane.  I don't suppose anybody would introduce us.  Mrs. Kane, I am Edward Rogers.
emily		How do you do?  because I recieved this note -
rogers		I made Miss - Miss Alexander send you the note.  She was a little unwilling at first -  but she did it.
susan		I can't tell you the things he said, Charlie.  You haven't got any idea -
kane		 To start with, I'll break your neck.
rogers		 Maybe you can do it and maybe you can't, Mr. Kane.
emily		Charles!  for myself, and for my son.  What does this note mean, Miss -
susan		 I know what you think, Mrs. Kane, but -
emily		 What does this note mean, Miss Alexander?
rogers		She doesn't know, Mrs. Kane.  She just sent it - because I made her see it wouldn't be smart for her not to send it.
kane		In case you don't know, Emily, this - this gentleman -  is -
rogers		I'm not a gentleman, Mrs. Kane, and your husband is just trying to be funny calling me one.  I don't even know what a gentleman is.  It's pretty clear - I'm not a gentleman.
emily		Oh!!
kane		You're a cheap, crooked grafter - and your concern for your children and your mother -
rogers		Anything you say, Mr. Kane.  Only we're talking now about what you are.  That's what the note is about, Mrs. Kane.  Now I'm going to lay all my cards on the table.  I'm fighting for my life.  Not just my political life.  My life.  If your husband is elected governor -
kane		I'm going to be elected governor. And the first thing I'm going to do -
emily		Let him finish, Charles.
rogers		I'm protecting myself every way I know how, Mrs. Kane.  This last week, I finally found out how I can stop your husband from being elected.  If the people of this state learn what I found out this week, he wouldn't have a chance to - he couldn't be elected Dog Catcher. Well, what I'm interested in is seeing that he's not elected.  I don't care whether they know what I know about him.  Let him keep right on being the Great, Noble, Moral -  Champeen of the people.  Just as long as -
emily		I think I understand, Mr. Rogers, but wonder if - 
kane		You can't blackmail me, Rogers, you can't -
susan		 Charlie, he said, unless you withdrew your name -
rogers		That's the chance I'm willing to give you, Mr. Kane.  More of a chance than you'd give me.  Unless you make up your mind by tomorrow that you're so sick that you've got to go away for a year or two - Monday morning every paper in this State will carry the story I'm going to give them.
emily		What story, Mr. Rogers?
rogers		The story about him and Miss Alexander, Mrs. Kane.
susan		There is no story.  It's all lies. Mr. Kane is just -
rogers		 I've had a dozen men doing nothing but run this thing down - we've got evidence enough to - well, the evidence would stand up in any court of law.  You want me to give you the evidence, Mr. Kane?
kane		You do anything you want to do. The people of this state can decide which one of us to trust.  If you want to know, they've already decided.  The election Tuesday'll be only -
rogers		Mrs. Kane, I'm not asking you to believe me.  I'd like to show you -
emily		You don't have to show me anything, Mr. Rogers.  I believe you.
rogers		I'd rather Mr. Kane withdrew without having to get the story published. Not that I care about him.  But I'd be better off that way -  - and so would you, Mrs. Kane.
susan		What about me?  He said my name'd be dragged through the mud.  He said everywhere I'd go from now on -
emily		There seems to be only one decision you can make, Charles.  I'd say that it has been made for you.  I suppose the details can be arranged tomorrow, Mr. Rogers. About the statements by the doctors -
kane		Have you gone completely mad, Emily?
kane		You don't think I'm going to let this blackmailer intimidate me, do you?
emily		I don't see what else you can do, Charles.  If he's right - and the papers publish this story he has -
kane		Oh, they'll publish it all right. But that's not going to stop me -
emily		Charles, this - this story - doesn't concern only you.  I'll be in it, too, won't I?  And Junior?
kane		 I suppose so, but - I'm not afraid of the story.  You can't tell me that the voters of this state -
emily		I'm not interested in the voters of this state right now.  I am interested in - well, Junior, for one thing.
susan		Charlie!  If they publish this story -
emily		They won't.  Goodnight, Mr. Rogers.  There's nothing more to be said, Charles.
kane		Oh yes, there is.
emily		I don't think so.  Are you coming, Charles?
kane		No.
kane		There's only one person in the world to decide what I'm going to do - and that's me.  And if you think - if any of you think -
emily		You decided what you were going to do, Charles - some time ago.  Come on, Charles.
kane		Go on!  Get out!  I can fight this thing all alone!
rogers		You're making a bigger fool of yourself than I thought you would, Mr. Kane.  You're licked.  Why don't you -
kane		 Get out!  I've got nothing to talk to you about.  If you want to see me, have the Warden write me a letter.
rogers		I see! 
susan		 Charlie, you're just excited.  You don't realize -
kane		I know exactly what I'm doing.  Get out!
emily		 Charles, if you don't listen to reason, it may be too late -
kane		Too late for what?  Too late for you and this -  this public thief to take the love of the people of this state away from me?  Well, you won't do it, I tell you.  You won't do it!
susan		Charlie, there are other things to think of.  Your son - you don't want him to read in the papers -
emily		It is too late now, Charles.
kane		 Get out, both of you!
susan		 Charlie, please don't -
kane		What are you waiting here for? Why don't you go?
emily		Goodnight, Charles.
rogers		You're the greatest fool I've ever known, Kane.  If it was anybody else, I'd say what's going to happen to you would be a lesson to you. Only you're going to need more than one lesson.  And you're going to get more than one lesson. 
kane		Don't you worry about me.  I'm Charles Foster Kane.  I'm no cheap, crooked politician, trying to save himself from the consequences of his crimes -
kane		 I'm going to send you to Sing Sing, Rogers.  Sing Sing!
emily		Hello, Brad -
leland		Emily -
emily		I'm sorry I sent for you, Brad - didn't -
leland		Chicago is pretty close to New York nowadays - only twenty hours -
leland		I'm glad to see you.
emily		Are all the returns in?
emily		Let me see it.
leland		 Almost two to one -
emily		I'm surprised he got the votes he did.
leland		Emily!
emily		Why should anyone vote for him? He's made it quite clear to the people what he thinks of them. Children - to be told one thing one day, something else the next, as the whim seizes him.  And they're supposed to be grateful and love and adore him - because he sees to it that they get cheap ice and only pay a nickel in the street cars.
leland		Emily, you're being - a little unfair -  You know what I think of Charles' behavior - about your personal lives -
emily		There aren't any personal lives for people like us.  He made that very clear to me nine years ago - If I'd thought of my life with Charles as a personal life, I'd have left him then -
leland		know that, Emily -
emily		 Maybe I should have - the first time he showed me what a mad dog he really was.
leland		 Emily, you -
emily		Brad, I'm -  I'm not an old woman yet -
leland		It's - all over -
emily		 Know it is, Brad -
leland		He's paying for it, Emily.  Those returns tonight - he's finished. Politically -  - socially, everywhere, I guess. don't know about the papers, but -
emily		If you're asking me to sympathize with him, Brad, you're wasting your time.  There's only one person I'm sorry for, as a matter of fact.  That - that shabby little girl.  I'm really sorry for her, Brad.
bernstein		Hello, Mr. Leland.
leland		Hello, Bernstein.
leland		Where is it - where's my notice? I've got to finish it!
bernstein		 Mr. Kane is finishing it.
leland		Kane?  Charlie?  Where is he?
leland		I suppose he's fixing it up - I know I'd never get that through.
bernstein		 Mr. Kane is finishing your piece the way you started it.
bernstein		He's writing a roast like you wanted it to be -  - I guess that'll show you.
kane		Hello, Brad.
leland		Hello, Charlie -
kane		Sure, we're speaking, Brad - you're fired.
leland		Well, that's about all there is - and I'm getting chills.  Hey, nurse!  Sloppy Joe's?  What's the name of that place?  You know...  All right. Xanadu.  I knew what it was all the time.  You caught on, didn't you?
thompson		Yes.
leland		I guess maybe I'm not as hard to see through as I think.  Anyway, I never even answered his letter. Maybe I should have.  I guess he was pretty lonely down there those last years.  He hadn't finished it when she left him - he never finished it - he never finished anything.  Of course, he built it for her -
thompson		That must have been love.
leland		I don't know.  He was disappointed in the world.  So he built one of his own -  An absolute monarchy - It was something bigger than an opera house anyway -  Say, I'll tell you one thing you can do for me, young fellow.
thompson		Sure.
leland		On your way out, stop at a cigar store, will you, and send me up a couple of cigars?
thompson		Sure, Mr. Leland.  I'll be glad to.
leland		Hey, Nurse!
nurse		Hello, Mr. Leland.
leland		I'm ready to go in now.  You know when I was a young man, there was an impression around that nurses were pretty.  It was no truer then than it is now.
nurse		Here, let me take your arm, Mr. Leland.
leland		 You won't forget, will you, about the cigars?  And tell them to wrap them up to look like toothpaste, or something, or they'll stop them at the desk.  That young doctor I was telling you about, he's got an idea he wants to keep me alive.
susan		How do you want to handle the whole thing - ask questions?
thompson		I'd rather you just talked. Anything that comes into your mind - about yourself and Mr. Kane.
susan		You wouldn't want to hear a lot of what comes into my mind about myself and Mr. Charlie Kane.
thompson		How did you meet him?
susan		I had a toothache.
susan		That was thiry years ago - and I still remember that toothache. Boy!  That toothache was just driving me crazy...
kane		 Ow!
kane		It's not funny.
susan		I'm sorry, mister - but you do look awful funny.
susan		Ow!
kane		What's the matter with you?
susan		Toothache.
kane		Hmm!
susan		You've got some on your face.
kane		If these sidewalks were kept in condition - instead of the money going to some cheap grafter -
kane		What's funny now?
susan		You are.  You look like you've been making mud pies.
susan		Oh!
kane		You're no Venus de Milo.
susan		 If you want to come in and wash your face -  I can get you some hot water to get that dirt off your trousers -
kane		Thanks.
susan		 Ow!
susan		Hey, you should be more careful. That's my ma and pa.
kane		I'm sorry.  They live here, too?
susan		No.  They've passed on.
kane		Where's the soap?
susan		In the water.
kane		 You're very easily amused.
susan		I always like to see the funny side of things.  No sense crying when you don't have to.  And you're so funny.  Looking at you, I forget all about my toothache.
susan		Oh!
kane		I can't stay here all night chasing your pain away.
susan		 I know...  But you do look so silly.
kane		Where's the towel?
susan		On the chiffonier.  Here.
kane		 Thanks.
susan		 I've got a brush in the closet. As soon as the mud on your trousers is all dry - you just brush it off.
kane		I'll get these streets fixed, if it's the last thing I do.
kane		 You are in pain, aren't you, you poor kid?
kane		 Wish there was something I could -
kane		I've got an idea, young lady.  I said, turn around and look at me, young lady.
kane		Did you ever see anybody wiggle both his ears at the same time?
kane		Watch closely!  It took me two solid years at the finest boys' school in the world to learn that trick.  The fellow who taught me is President of Venezuela now.
kane		That's it!  Smile!
susan		 A chicken?
kane		No.  But you're close.
susan		A rooster?
kane		You're getting farther away all the time.  It's a duck.
susan		Excuse me, Mr. Kane.  I know this takes a lot of nerve, but - who are you?  I mean - I'm pretty ignorant, guess you caught on to that -
kane		 You really don't know who I am?
susan		No.  That is, I bet it turns out I've heard your name a million times, only you know how it is -
kane		But you like me, don't you?  Even though you don't know who I am?
susan		You've been wonderful!  I can't tell you how glad I am you're here, I don't know many people and - 
kane		And I know too many people. Obviously, we're both lonely.  Would you like to know where I was going tonight - when you ran into me and ruined my Sunday clothes?
susan		I didn't run into you and I bet they're not your Sunday clothes. You've probably got a lot of clothes.
kane		 This evening I was on my way to the Western Manhattan Warehouses - in search of my youth.
kane		You see, my mother died, too - a long time ago.  Her things were put into storage out west because I had no place to put them then. I still haven't.  But now I've sent for them just the same.  And tonight I'd planned to make a sort of sentimental journey -  and now -
kane		Who am I?  Well, let's see.  Charles Foster Kane was born in New Salem, Colorado in eighteen six -  I run a couple of newspapers.  How about you?
susan		Oh, me -
kane		How old did you say you were?
susan		 I didn't say.
kane		I didn't think you did.  If you had, I wouldn't have asked you again, because I'd have remembered. How old?
susan		Pretty old.  I'll be twenty-two in August.
kane		 That's a ripe old age -  What do you do?
susan		I work at Seligman's.
kane		Is that what you want to do?
susan		I want to be a singer.  I mean, I didn't.  Mother did for me.
kane		 What happened to the singing? You're not in a show, are you?
susan		Oh, no!  Nothing like that.  Mother always thought - she used to talk about Grand Opera for me.  Imagine! An American girl, for one thing - and then my voice isn't really that kind anyway, it's just that Mother - you know what mothers are like.
kane		Yes -
susan		As a matter of fact, I do sing a little.
kane		 Would you sing for me?
susan		 Oh, you wouldn't want to hear me sing.
kane		Yes, I would.  That's why I asked.
susan		Well, I -
kane		Don't tell me your toothache is bothering you again?
susan		Oh, no, that's all gone.
kane		Then you have no alibi at all. Please sing.
susan		I did a lot of singing after that. I sang for Charlie -  I sang for teachers at a hundred bucks an hour - the teachers got that, I didn't -
thompson		What did you get?
susan		 What do you mean?
susan		I didn't get a thing.  Just the music lessons.  That's all there was to it.
thompson		He married you, didn't he?
susan		He was in love with me.  But he never told me so until after it all came out in the papers about us - and he lost the election and that Norton woman divorced him.
thompson		What about that apartment?
susan		He wanted me to be comfortable - Oh, why should I bother?  You don't believe me, but it's true.  It just happens to be true.  He was really interested in my voice.  What are you smiling for?  What do you think he built that opera house for?  I didn't want it.  I didn't want to sing.  It was his idea - everything was his idea - except my leaving him.
matisti		Impossible!  Impossible!
kane		Your job isn't to give Mrs. Kane your opinion of her talents. You're supposed to train her voice. Nothing more.
matisti		 But, it is impossible.  I will be the laughingstock of the musical world!  People will say -
kane		If you're interested in what people say, Signor Matisti, I may be able to enlighten you a bit.  The newspapers, for instance.  I'm an authority on what the papers will say, Signor Matisti, because I own eight of them between here and San Francisco...  It's all right, dear. Signor Matisti is going to listen to reason.  Aren't you, maestro? 
matisti		Mr. Kane, how can I persuade you -
kane		You can't.
kane		I knew you'd see it my way.
the voice		- really pathetic.
susan		You don't propose to have yourself made ridiculous?  What about me? I'm the one that has to do the singing.  I'm the one that gets the razzberries.  Last week, when I was shopping, one of the salesgirls did an imitation of me for another girl. She thought I didn't see her, but - Charlie, you might as well make up your mind to it.  This is one thing you're not going to have your own way about.  I can't sing and you know it -  Why can't you just -
kane		My reasons satisfy me, Susan.  You seem unable to understand them.  I will not tell them to you again.  You will continue with your singing.
kane's voice		Let's have your keys, Raymond.
raymond's voice		Yes, sir.
kane's voice		The key must be in the other side.  We'll knock the door down, Raymond.
raymond's voice		 Mrs. Kane -
kane's voice		Do what I say.
kane		Get Dr. Corey.
raymond		Yes, sir.
kane		Thank you.  I can't imagine how Mrs. Kane came to make such a silly mistake.  The sedative Dr. Wagner gave her is in a somewhat larger bottle -  I suppose the strain of preparing for her trip has excited and confused her.
kane		There are no objections to my staying here with her, are there?
kane		Of course.
susan		 I couldn't make you see how I felt, Charlie.  I just couldn't -  I couldn't go threw with singing again.  You don't know what it means to feel - to know that people - that an audience don't want you. That if you haven't got what they want - a real voice - they just don't care about you. Even when they're polite - and they don't laugh or get restless or - you know...  They don't want you.  They just -
kane		 That's when you've got to fight them.  That's when you've got to make them.  That's -
kane		I'm sorry.  It's their loss.
susan		 What time is it?
susan		Charlie!  I said, what time is it?
kane		 Half past eleven.
susan		I mean in New York.
kane		Half past eleven.
susan		At night?
kane		Yes.  The bulldog's just gone to press.
susan		 Half past eleven!  The shows have just let out.  People are going to night clubs and restaurants.  Of course, we're different.  We live in a palace - at the end of the world.
kane		You always said you wanted to live in a palace.
susan		Can't we go back, Charlie?
susan		Charlie -
susan		If I promise to be a good girl! Not to drink - and to entertain all the governors and the senators with dignity -  Charlie -
kane		One thing I've never been able to understand, Susan.  How do you know you haven't done them before?
susan		It makes a whole lot more sense than collecting Venuses.
kane		You may be right -  I sometimes wonder - but you get into the habit -
susan		 It's not a habit.  I do it because I like it.
kane		I was referring to myself.  I thought we might have a picnic tomorrow - it might be a nice change after the Wild West party tonight. Invite everybody to go to the Everglades -
susan		 Invite everybody!  Order everybody, you mean, and make them sleep in tents!  Who wants to sleep in tents when they have a nice room of their own - with their own bath, where they know where everything is?
kane		I thought we might invite everybody to go on a picnic tomorrow.  Stay at Everglades overnight.  Please see that the arrangements are made, Susan.
kane		You remember my son, Mr. Bernstein.
bernstein's voice		 Oh, yes.  How do you do, Mr. Kane?
susan		I'm not going to put up with it.
susan		I mean it.  Oh, I know I always say I mean it, and then I don't - or you get me so don't do what I say I'm going to - but -
kane		 You're in a tent, darling.  You're not at home.  And I can hear you very well if you just talk in a normal tone of voice.
susan		I'm not going to have my guests insulted, just because you think -  - if people want to bring a drink or two along on a picnic, that's their business.  You've got no right -
kane		 I've got more than a right as far as you're concerned, Susan.
susan		Oh, I'm sick and tired of you telling me what I must and what I musn't do!
kane		 You're my wife, Susan, and -
susan		I'm not just your wife, I'm a person all by myself - or I ought to be. I was once.  Sometimes you get me to believing I never was.
kane		We can discuss all this some other time, Susan.  Right now -
susan		I'll discuss what's on my mind when I want to.  You're not going to keep on running my life the way you want it.
kane		As far as you're concerned, Susan, I've never wanted anything -  I don't want anything now - except what you want.
susan		What you want me to want, you mean. What you've decided I ought to have - what you'd want if you were me.  But you've never given me anything that -
kane		Susan, I really think -
susan		Oh, I don't mean the things you've given me - that don't mean anything to you.  What's the difference between giving me a bracelet or giving somebody else a hundred thousand dollars for a statue you're going to keep crated up and never look at?  It's only money.  It doesn't mean anything.  You're not really giving anything that belongs to you, that you care about.
kane		 Susan, I want you to stop this. And right now!
susan		Well, I'm not going to stop it. I'm going to say exactly what I think.  - it's like you were bribing me! That's what it's been from the first moment I met you.  No matter how much it cost you - your time, your money - that's what you've done with everybody you've ever known.  Tried to bribe them!
kane		Susan!
kane		You're talking an incredible amount of nonsense, Susan.  Whatever I do -  I do - because I love you.
susan		Love!  You don't love anybody!  Me or anybody else!  You want to be loved - that's all you want!  I'm Charles Foster Kane.  Whatever you want - just name it and it's yours! Only love me!  Don't expect me to love you -
susan		You - you hit me.
susan		You'll never have another chance to hit me again.  Never knew till this minute -
kane		Susan, it seems to me -
susan		Don't tell me you're sorry.
kane		I'm not sorry.
susan		I'm going to leave you.
kane		No, you're not.
susan		 Yes.
raymond		Mrs. Kane would like to see you, Mr. Kane.
kane		All right.
kane		Is Mrs. Kane - 
raymond		Marie has been packing since morning, Mr. Kane.
susan		Tell Arnold I'm ready, Marie.  He can get the bags.
marie		Yes, Mrs. Kane.
kane		Have you gone completely crazy?
kane		Don't you realize that everybody here is going to know about this? That you've packed your bags and ordered the car and -
susan		- And left?  Of course they'll hear.  I'm not saying goodbye - except to you - but I never imagined that people wouldn't know.
kane		I won't let you go.
susan		You can't stop me.
susan		Goodbye, Charlie.
kane		 Don't go, Susan.
susan		Let's not start all over again, Charlie.  We've said everything that can be said.
kane		Susan, don't go!  Susan, please!
kane		You mustn't go, Susan. Everything'll be exactly the way you want it.  Not the way I think you want it - by your way.  Please, Susan - Susan!
kane		Don't go, Susan!  You mustn't go!  You - you can't do this to me, Susan -
susan		I see - it's you that this is being done to!  It's not me at all.  Not how I feel.  Not what it means to me.  Oh, yes I can.
susan		In case you've never heard of how I lost all my money - and it was plenty, believe me -
thompson		The last ten years have been tough on a lot of people.
susan		They haven't been tough on me.  I just lost my money.  But when I compare these last ten years with the twenty I spent with him -
thompson		I feel kind of sorry for him, all the same -
susan		 You say you're going down to Xanadu?
thompson		Monday, with some of the boys from the office.  Mr. Rawlston wants the whole place photographed carefully - all that art stuff. We run a picture magazine, you know -
susan		I know.  If you're smart, you'll talk to Raymond.  That's the butler. You can learn a lot from him.  He knows where the bodies are buried.
susan		Well, what do you know?  It's morning already.  You must come around and tell me the story of your life sometime.
raymond		Yes, sir - yes, sir, I knew how to handle the old man.  He was kind of queer, but I knew how to handle him.
thompson		Queer?
raymond		Yeah.  I guess he wasn't very happy those last years - he didn't have much reason to be -
raymond		 Mr. Charles Foster Kane announced today that Mrs. Charles Foster Kane has left Xanadu, his Florida home, under the terms of a peaceful and friendly agreement with the intention of filing suit for divorce at an early date.  Mrs. Kane said that she does not intend to return to the operatic career which she gave up a few years after her marriage, at Mr.  Kane's request. Signed, Charles Foster Kane.
raymond		Exclusive for immediate transmission.  Urgent priority all Kane papers.
fred		Okay.
katherine		Yes ... yes...  Mrs. Tinsdall - Very well.  It's the housekeeper.
raymond		Yes?
katherine		She says there's some sort of disturbance up in Mrs. Alexander's room.  She's afraid to go in.
kane		 Close the door, Raymond.
raymond		Yes, sir. 
kane		Lock it - and keep it locked.
kane		Raymond - 
raymond		Yes, sir -
kane		Keep it locked.
raymond		Okay.
kane		Do you like poetry, Raymond?
raymond		Can't say, sir.
kane		Mrs. Kane liked poetry -
raymond		Yes, Mr. Kane.
kane		Not my wife - not either of them.
raymond		 Oh, yes, sir.
kane		 Do you know what that is?
raymond		 It's a wall you bought in China, Mr. Kane.
kane		Persia.  It belonged to a king.
raymond		How did you get him to part with it, Mr. Kane?
kane		He was dead...  That's a poem.  Do you know what it means?
raymond		No, I don't, Mr. Kane.
kane		I didn't used to be afraid of it.
kane		The drunkeness of youth has passed like a fever, And yet I saw many things, Seeing my glory in the days of my glory, I thought my power eternal And the days of my life Fixed surely in the years But a whisper came to me From Him who dies not.  I called my tributary kings together And those who were proud rulers under me, I opened the boxes of my treasure to them, saying: "Take hills of gold, moutains of silver, And give me only one more day upon the earth." But they stood silent, Looking upon the ground; So that I died And Death came to sit upon my throne.  O sons of men You see a stranger upon the road, You call to him and he does not step.  He is your life Walking towards time, Hurrying to meet the kings of India and China.  O sons of men You are caught in the web of the world And the spider Nothing waits behind it.  Where are the men with towering hopes? They have changed places with owls, Owls who have lived in tombs And now inhabit a palace.
raymond		 That's the whole works, right up to date.
thompson		Sentimental fellow, aren't you?
raymond		Yes and no.
thompson		 Well, thanks a lot.
raymond		See what I mean?  He was a little gone in the head - the last couple of years, anyway - but I knew how to handle him.  That "Rosebud" - that don't mean anything.  I heard him say it. He just said "Rosebud" and then he dropped that glass ball and it broke on the floor.  He didn't say anything about that, so I knew he was dead - He said all kind of things I couldn't make out.  But I knew how to take care of him.
raymond		You can go on asking questions if you want to.
thompson		 We're leaving tonight.  As soon as they're through photographing the stuff -
raymond		Allow yourself plenty of time. The train stops at the Junction On signal - but they don't like to wait.  Not now.  I can remember when they'd wait all day ... if Mr. Kane said so.
assistant		NO. 9182
assistant		"Nativity" - attributed to Donatello, acquired Florence 1921, cost 45,000 lira.  Got that?
third newspaperman		Yeah.
photographer		All right!  Next!  Better get that statue over there.
assistant		Okay.
raymond		What do you think all that is worth, Mr. Thompson?
thompson		Millions - if anybody wants it.
raymond		The banks are out of luck, eh?
thompson		Oh, I don't know.  They'll clear all right.
assistant		"Venus," Fourth Century.  Acquired 1911.  Cost twenty-three thousand. Got it?
third newspaperman		Okay.
assistant		 That's a lot of money to pay for a dame without a head.
second assistant		 No. 483.  One desk from the estate of Mary Kane, Little Salem,
third newspaperman		Okay.
second assistant		We're all set to get everything. The junk as well as the art.
third newspaperman		What's that?
raymond		It's a jigsaw puzzle.
third newspaperman		We got a lot of those.  There's a Burmese Temple and three Spanish ceilings down the hall.
photographer		Yeah, all in crates.
third newspaperman		There's a part of a Scotch castle over there, but we haven't bothered to unwrap it.
photographer		I wonder how they put all those pieces together?
assistant		 Iron stove.  Estate of Mary Kane.
photographer		Put it over by that statue.  It'll make a good setup.
girl		 Who is she anyway?
second newspaperman		Venus.  She always is.
third newspaperman		He sure liked to collect things, didn't he?
raymond		He went right on buying - right up to the end.
photographer		Anything and everything - he was a regular crow.
third newspaperman		wonder -  You put all this together - the palaces and the paintings and the toys and everything - what would it spell?
thompson		Charles Foster Kane.
photographer		Or Rosebud?  How about it, Jerry?
third newspaperman		 Turn that thing off, will you? It's driving me nuts!  What's Rosebud?
photographer		Kane's last words, aren't they, Jerry?  That was Jerry's angle, wasn't it, Jerry?  Did you ever find out what it means, Jerry?
thompson		No, I didn't.
second newspaperman		Say, what did you find out about him, anyway, Jerry?
thompson		Not much.
second newspaperman		Well, what have you been doing?
thompson		Playing with a jigsaw puzzle -   I talked to a lot of people who knew him.
girl		What do they say?
thompson		Well - it's become a very clear picture.  He was the most honest man who ever lived, with a streak of crookedness a yard wide.  He was a liberal and a reactionary; he was tolerant - "Live and Let Live" - that was his motto.  But he had no use for anybody who disagreed with him on any point, no matter how small it was.  He was a loving husband and a good father - and both his wives left him and his son got himself killed about as shabbily as you can do it.  He had a gift for friendship such as few men have - he broke his oldest friend's heart like you'd throw away a cigarette you were through with.  Outside of that -
third newspaperman		Okay, okay.
girl		What about Rosebud?  Don't you think that explains anything?
thompson		No, I don't.  Not much anway. Charles Foster Kane was a man who got everything he wanted, and then lost it.  Maybe Rosebud was something he couldn't get or lost. No, I don't think it explains anything.  I don't think any word explains a man's life.  No -  I guess Rosebud is just a piece in a jigsaw puzzle - a missing piece.
thompson		We'd better get along.  We'll miss the train.
raymond		Throw that junk in, too.
****Dialogues from script :City_of_Joy.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  CITY OF JOY  FADE IN:  TITLE SEQUENCE. EXT. BIHAR - DAY  Heat that has mass. That rises off the parched earth in shimmering waves. After a moment, we see what appear to be figures coming out of the haze, one by one. A family with their few belongings: HASARI PAL, 33, his wife, ALOKA, 28, and their children, daughter, AMRITA, 13, sons MANOOJ and SHAMBU, 11 and 9; HASARI'S MOTHER and FATHER. They embark toward the night, the rising sun behind them.
3.		CONTINUED: As we PAN the group, we see that everyone has his/her eyes closed in earnest meditation... until we COME TO an American, MAX LOEB, 29, who pops open first his right eye -- looks to his right and left -- closes his right eye and opens his left eye -- looks left and right... and then, instead of continuing the mantra and the search for his white light, expels a stream of air through his pursed lips, making a vibrating, flatulent sound, one indicative of sizeable frustration and dismissal. MAX Get serious. Around him, other single eyes pop open, searching for the source of this unmeditative sound. Max nods and smiles a wry smile as if to say: This just ain't doin' it for me, folks.
4.		CONTINUED: MAX Impossible to predict, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Maybe you better give me my ticket. BETSY Screw you, Max -- I paid for it! How many times am I going to let you walk out on me and come back? MAX I think only you can answer that, Betsy Ilene Kahn. She slaps him.
max		Do you really think that's an appropriate way to get rid of your Western rage, Bets? She swings at him again.   He catches her hand hard in his fist. MAX One slap is romantic. Two would call for retaliation... Lend me a hundred dollars. She yanks free, begins to chant her mantra as he grabs his knapsack and valise and goes out the door.  Now, she's silent and, in the simplest sense, deeply hurt. She can't help herself; she cares. We STAY WITH  her a moment as we -- DISSOLVE TO:
5.		CONTINUED: MAX How you doin'? The Clerk gives Max a warm smile. CLERK Hello. MAX I've always wanted to walk into a little airport just about like this one and ask the guy at the counter the following question. Ready?
6.		INT. 180 FOUR-SEATER - DAY Max is crammed into the back seat with the plump Ravi.
another angle		We see now that, contrary to our assumption that Veejay would be in the left seat, it's Manubai who's flying the plane. The NOISE of the ENGINE forces them to speak somewhat loudly. VEEJAY We were among the fortunate back in '48.  We got out of East Bengal before partition destroyed so many. We make mattresses. The Rajah Double Spring. Veejay has an old flask out. VEEJAY We don't have a flight attendant on this flight...  Are you a musician, Mr. Loeb? MAX Unattached trumpet player and recently-certified associate guru. As he takes a hit   on   the flask, Max's eye focuses on the little mirror on   the   dash. In it he can see Manubai's eyes. If we  were   to   judge by what he sees in them, she doesn't find him   the   least bit amusing. He smiles his smile at her.
7.		CONTINUED: HASARI Scared? No -- why? This is very exciting. As soon as we get to our friend's house, everything will be fine. But, despite Hasari's charade of confidence, they  are overwhelmed by the size of the station and the desperate energy of the humanity around them. As they press on, a small beggar woman huddled on the platform turns her eyes eerily on Manooj... as a deformed hand stretches INTO the FRAME. Aloka senses someone: A beggar, face half-hidden and eaten away by leprosy. This terrifying image presses the boys tightly to their mother and moves Hasari to encircle Armita with one hand and attempt to wrap the other three inside the embrace of his other hand. It does not seem possible that he can protect all of them against the predatory eyes watching them. He moves them quickly to a wall... HASARI Wait right here. Don't move.
with hasari		He moves to a line of VENDORS, shows a piece of paper to one, as he digs out his precious screw of money to make a purchase of sweets from the Vendor. HASARI Please, can you direct me to my friend at this address? We are to stay with him. The Vendor gives the address a look, shows it to the Vendor next to him. Both look at Hasari. VENDOR #1 There's no such address as this in Calcutta. HASARI But that's not possible. VENDOR #1 Of course    it is possible! I have lived here    all my life. You are new. Who     would know if a place exists or    does not? VENDOR #2 Bombay, perhaps. Delhi.     Look there. 
8.		CONTINUED: Dear God, what now? Stunned, Hasari hands Vendor #1 a rupee and, with the sweets, turns back to his family, his face going through a magical transformation as he prepares to suggest to the family that all is well.
another angle		The Pals, scared, dispirited, weary, consumed by the crowd. They've been walking a long  time. Shambu cries; Aloka tries to ease his fear. They  stop numbly at the edge of the park, put their bundles down against a long wall. Across the way, a thin policeman shares a cigarette with a group of traders. There is a deeply fearful look in Hasari's eyes, a look he is having difficulty controlling now. He needs to revive the family's confidence. He takes out his precious bundle of rupees and gives one to Manooj. Manooj, though, is fixed on the cinema across the street. Hasari indicates a stall just across the main road.
hasari		Manooj, go and get some fruit. Come straight back. Delighted with his task, Manooj sets off, his eyes on the marquee of the theater with its huge cardboard cutout of Kumar Kapur, starring in Hot Gun. Hasari calls out to him to watch where he's going; the mere crossing of the street is a potential parental nightmare. A hand ruffles Manooj's head and a TALL MAN with dark eyes and a sweet smile comes at the boy's anxious parents. GANGOOLY 
9.		CONTINUED: Hasari is torn between speaking to the man and watching his son's incredible journey across the street. GANGOOLY Let me say only that the terrible malevolence that has visited your part of the country affects us all. HASARI Three years without rain. Nothing came out of the earth but debts. GANGOOLY Terrible. And now, the    family on the street. It is not    acceptable.  And if I can't help, my   name is not Mr. Gangooly... Which,   blessedly, it is. And now a smile as full as the sky above.
10.		CONTINUED: He bows briefly before the altar as he moves to the washing area. GANGOOLY And now, one of the miracles of life in the city. One and two... He turns on the tap and a stream of brown WATER GURGLES out. The Pals are hypnotized, the fists around their hearts begin to ease. GANGOOLY Holy water from the Ganges! Flows out forever. Come -- touch it.
hasari		I have only seventy-five, but as soon as I have work... GANGOOLY Give me the fifty, pay the rest next week. You'll find work, I trust you. Aren't I from Bihar, too?  Yes. And the money is in his hand.   He joins his hands together. GANGOOLY You are pleased? Then Mr. Gangooly is pleased. It's how I am. 
11.		CONTINUED: He turns on his heel and he's gone. For a moment, the Pals are still, swept from the brink of catastrophe to salvation... and now, as one, they release their sheer and utter joy.
ravi		I hope this is all right. The room hasn't been aired or the bed turned, but -- VEEJAY Oh, he doesn't care about that, do you, Max? Here, look here. Veejay opens a little cupboard, stocked with liquor. VEEJAY Help yourself. Be comfortable. Ravi, come on, go, go, let's leave the young man to himself. Obediently, Ravi goes.   Veejay follows.   Max goes to the window.
his pov		The beautiful Manubai in the garden.
max		He lies down on the bed.   He's found Nirvana.
12.		CONTINUED: It's full of something brown. He  pushes his fingers in and feels this bit of earth with a tenderness that's almost religious, puts a pinch to his nose and breathes it in. The LAUGHTER and SHOUTING  from the bathing area is GROWING.
13.		CONTINUED: This while Binal has begun to throw things out onto the street, though this cleansing of his home doesn't stop him from picking up a stick. The odd sympathizer meets with... BINAL So, should I suffer if they are so stupid to jump into the first mouth that wants to eat them? He turns with the stick on Hasari. BINAL You're lucky I don't kill you!
14.		ANOTHER ANGLE Ravi in her bathrobe. MAX I'm starving. He gives her his best saint's smile. RAVI Well, you don't want to eat those awful cigars. Come with me, we'll wake up the cook, she'll fix you something proper.
manooj		With his eyes open, watching the dead man being removed.
family		After their humiliating flight, they found refuge here. Tiny figures huddled together with their baggage and bundles, near a tree, not far from the steps that dip down to the smooth water. Hasari's eyes, too, are on the dead man, that warning. He kneels beside Manooj, strokes him. The boy's eyes turns to the man's, wondering if the man can provide for them. HASARI Don't let it frighten you. You have to be brave. I know we'll find work today. Fear and doubt fill Manooj's eyes.   He nods.
15.		ANOTHER ANGLE A line of a hundred men stretches from a door. Hasari is on the edge of panic, but when he turns to the family, he's wearing his confident smile. As before, he gathers the family into the protectorate of his arms and guides them onward. As he pushes off into the sea of humanity, we PULL BACK AND UP, FILLING the FRAME WITH street upon street, disappearing Hasari.
16.		EXT. MEN'S SHOP - DAY Man leans down, whispers to the smiling boy... MAX You sure I look all right? The little boy nods. Max slips him several rupees... and he, Manubai, and Ravi fold themselves into her tiny car as --
another angle		Shambu runs to his dejected family. SHAMBU Look! A man gave me these many moneys! HASARI What man? Why -- did you ask him for money? SHAMBU He just gave it to me. HASARI Where is he? Shambu looks, but the car's gone. HASARI Don't do that. We're not beggars. Shambu is devastated. Out of his own desperation, Hasari feels he's been a little rough on the boy. He holds him close.
hasari		Go back to the river. Wait for me by the tree. Don't go anywhere. Do you understand? Aloka, the boys nod. We WATCH them as Hasari heads off, quickly becoming a small figure disappearing into the sea.
17.		INT. JUTE MILL - DAY A flaking gray wall, half-obscured with moldering files. The grilled window lets in a little light and the quiet supplications of those outside. An old CLERK at a desk. A voice calls out.       The Clerk looks up, crosses to the grill. Hasari's tense face through the bars. A TRUCK RUMBLES past, drowning out the words... except these: "...trade union." The Clerk shakes his head sadly. On the verge of panic, Hasari hangs onto the window... CLERK Do you have family?
hasari		Yes, yes of course. But I'm three days without work. I'll take anything. The Clerk digs in his pocket, presses two rupees on Hasari. CLERK Here, now go away. HASARI No, I don't want you to give me -- The next man in line forcibly moves Hasari out of the way. CLERK In this city, a man with a family can't be proud. Take it!
18.		CONTINUED: MANUBAI It's all right for you to use my mother as your tour guide and meal ticket, because she'll get something nice out of it. But what would I get? He stares at her a moment, then gets up, goes around the table. MAX Well, gee,    I don't know. Maybe I could say    something so amusing that you'd    laugh so hard it would break that    hot poker you have up your ass. She stares at him. He bends to kiss her. She doesn't pull away... but after a moment he realizes she isn't responding. He continues the kiss, but he opens his eyes... to find her staring at him. He pulls back. They stare at each other another moment, then Max senses someone in the doorway.
ravi		Staring at them, disappointment filling her eyes.
max		The same sound of frustration and ennui he made in the ashram.
19.		ANOTHER ANGLE Max is guided by a grumpy hall PORTER wearing an off- white shirt and bellbottoms through the walled and well planted courtyard of an inexpensive hotel. Max gives the cow a bemused eye...
max		No fruit basket? No mini bar? Max hands the Porter several rupees. PORTER Bar? Of course -- many, many. But make care, Sahib. Please, for me. If it is lady you like to know -- yes? -- you let me. Huh? Very sweet girl, good nature, very sweet. Or boy, very good... Max puts a finger on the Porter's head, turns him for the door. PORTER No like boy? Something then for smoke -- mmmh, very good for smoke!
at door		Max eases the Porter out.   As the door is closing... PORTER Maybe you like two girls -- look a little Chinese, but very great pleasure. Max smiles his smile and disappears the Porter behind the closed door. The smile disappears and the FAN gets his attention; it has an annoying rhythm and sound. He flicks the switch, but the fan continues to snap around.   20. CONTINUED: He stares at it... and startles us by suddenly flicking out a hand and grabbing the blade, stopping the fan. He lets go. The fan is still. He carries his knapsack to the tub; it has brown stains along the middle and the water has a brown tinge as it flows out of the tap. He sits on the edge of the tub, dumps his knapsack on the floor, picks up a half-dozen pamphlets from the ashram.  CLOSE ON PAMPHLETS Guides to inner peace.
resume		He wings the pamphlets at the trashcan.
21.		CONTINUED: CHILD  Daaaaaadddddddyyyy! As in a dream, Shambu rises up out of the sea of bodies ... and runs to his father. SHAMBU Daaaaadddddyyyy!
aloka		These friends have found space. They will share with us. Hasari looks at the tiny space. The roof is cardboard and cloth and half an old movie poster featuring the actor Kumar Kapur. Hasari looks at his tiny bit of food, debates a moment... then puts his hands together, addresses these generous people. HASARI I would be proud if you would share our food with us. Everyone looks at the food; there is no disguising their hunger.
22.		EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT Distant transistor MUSIC as we PAN DOWN: The Pal children sleep despite the QUIET MOANS and nightmare CRIES around them, the two boys huddled together, Amrita close to her mother. Hasari comes out of the dark. Aloka looks at him. He shakes his head. He slumps beside her. Aloka strokes Hasari, looking lovingly at him. ALOKA I remember the first time I saw you, on the day of our marriage. Wearing a bright yellow turban. You asked me my name and you said, 'You are a very beautiful girl and I am wondering whether you will find me appealing.' He strokes her tenderly in return... but now, overwhelmed with despair, she begins to weep. HASARI What? She doesn't want to say it, doesn't want to wake the children. HASARI It's all right -- what? ALOKA I miss the village.    There I could help. Hasari pulls Aloka close, strokes her.
23.		ANOTHER ANGLE Swarming police.
pals		Awaken -- startled, disoriented. Aloka gentles the children as Hasari moves instinctively toward the threat.
scene		A black ambassadorial car pulls up, out of which steps a BABU. A microphone and speaker has been set up. Another car unloads several politicos with party banners. A minion hands the Babu the mike; he wants to get on with it before this turns into a political rally. Hasari is close to him, as is Arun. BABU The municipality has directed us to carry out the destruction of this settlement. All of you must go -- now! For a moment there is a babble of fear and frustration. Then from Hasari's side, Arun confronts the Babu. ARUN For what reason? The Babue appears disconcerted.   He's not accustomed to the poor asking questions. BABU Because this settlement is impeding construction work.
arun		We're not moving! Why should we move? Who is the municipality? We are! This is our home! BABU I have my orders. ARUN If we're driven from here, where should we go? BABU I'll give you five minutes to gather your things. Then, the settlement comes down. 
24.		CONTINUED: ARUN Why should you alone be burdened with such a task? Let me help! Arun begins to tear his shelter apart, and to heave the pieces at the Babu, who retreats. Others soon take up the call to vent their frustration, hurling things at the police and at the driver of the tractor. Quickly we've got a full-scale riot. The police wade into the crowd, pounding people with their sticks, Arun one of the first to get hit. He staggers into Hasari's arms.
hasari		No! Today, I'm just a mangy dog on the street, but soon, I swear, I'll look other men in the eye!  I swear. Yet on his face we see the extraordinary pressure to make this promise reality.
25.		CONTINUED: He feels a tug at his elbow.   It's a 15-year-old BOY with thick, scholarly spectacles. RAFIK  Why live like a beggar when you can live like a maharajah? Hasari stares at the boy.
another angle		Hasari seated on a stool, watching his blood leave his body, his face broken out in perspiration. HASARI I thought you were only taking a little. ATTENDANT We pay more, we take more. HASARI I'm feeling a little dizzy. ATTENDANT It'll pass.
26.		CONTINUED: RAFIK Blood is the oil well of the poor, brother. Now, give me another three and I'll give you these. He opens his hand with its dirty nails. In it lie a little group of pills, like highly-colored sweets. HASARI What are those? RAFIK Vitamins. Take these and you can give again in a week.
27.		MAX AND POOMINA He may have been receptive to a "sweet, young girl," but not a kid in her teens. MAX Got an I.D. on you?  How old are you? POOMINA Twenty, sahib. MAX I buy that. She approaches him seductively.
poomina		I can do anything you want, sahib. She fingers the   Hebrew letter at Max's throat, on its gold chain. For    a moment, Max is mesmerized by this child; but then,   as she begins more serious ministra- tions, he pulls   back. MAX Hold it, time out. Time, there's time out on the field. POOMINA Is problems, sahib? MAX Is problems, yeah, just a couple. POOMINA No, please, yes, I can --
28.		CONTINUED: She looks up at him, delivers a small burp.    Covers her mouth in charming embarrassment. POOMINA Now, you are ready for great pleasure, yes? MAX Watching you eat was my great pleasure. Now you go home. As he escorts her toward the door, Poomina is distressed. Max realizes she can't leave empty-handed. He pulls out some notes.
max		For you. She hasn't given up, though, and as he takes the money, she stands on tiptoe and kisses him. Torn, Max begins to respond. He stops  himself, his grip on her causing her discomfort. His  breath comes in little bursts. MAX You're a very wet kisser. Work on it, get in touch in five years. He leads her toward the door. Like some lunatic comedy. she resists. He pushes. She locks her knees. He opens the door. MAX Goddamn it, cut it out!   Now, good night. He muscles her out the  door, closes it, wipes his lips. He stares at a parade  of cockroaches gliding along the wall as he listens to  her CRYING quietly on the other side of the door. He   debates... and he loses. Opens the door. Poomina stands   there; the tears stop and a lip- twitching smile lights  her face. MAX Five years already? Gee, time really flies when you have no moral conviction. She slides into his arms, pressing against him. With his shoulder, he closes the door, leaving us outside.
29.		CONTINUED: Poomina watches Max do a sleight-of-hand trick with a coin. He tosses it up, brings his hands past each other, then holds out his fists; she picks on... but the other holds the penny. Fooled, she laughs. He does it again; she points to one fist -- empty -- then other -- also empty. Max reaches behind her ear and... produces the coin. She loves it, her laughter escalating. But then she seesm to read something in the b.g. where we see four thugs, two of whom will become known to us as THE GOONDA, a capo to the local "mafia" chieftan, and ASHOKA, son of the local Godfather. Ashoka works on a pimple on his chin. The Goonda meticulously cleans a spot of mud with spit from one of his expensive new running shoes. Max eyes the thugs eyeing him.
max		Short guys!   Quit lookin' at us! This remark goes over big with the thugs. Max doesn't care. He knocks off the last of the beer in his bottle. The bartender brings them two shots of something in two unmatched glasses. POOMINA Special drink for you, sahib. Only the most man can drink it. You make try. For me. MAX For you, I would drink battery acid. POOMINA Who that finish first.   I bet! She puts her glass to her lips and, in a childish, exaggerated way, mimes waiting for him to commence a drinking race with her. The two of them toss off what's in their glasses. The bangla in Max's glass is stronger than battery acid. He does an elaborate routine involv- ing the pain, the surprise, the sheer awfulness of the drink. But puts it down with mock machismo. POOMINA I beat! MAX I really don't think so -- oh no, nay, nay! I never lose the truly irrelevant contest. POOMINA We have fun some more.   I bet again! 
30.		CONTINUED: She turns to the bartender, calls for two more. All the while, in the b.g., The Goonda and his two thugs watch emotionlessly and Ashoka works on his acne.
max		Well well. Seek punishment and ye shall find. Knowing what's  coming, Max nevertheless unleashes a beautiful howl  and tries to trample The Goonda off- tackle. From   behind, he's hit with a length of stick. He goes down,  looks up through blasted eyes at Ashoka as two sticks now  land against his shoulder and his head...
hasari		It sounds like someone needs help. Hasari bolts for the corner.
alleyway		As Hasari turns into the head of the alley, he can see three men beating someone, a fourth man standing off to the side, watching. HASARI What are you doing?  A man's being beaten here! As Hasari runs down the alley, the MOTORCYCLE FIRES UP and SCREAMS OFF and the three goons take flight.
31.		HASARI AND MAX Hasari runs up, reaches out to Max, who's barely on his feet. As Hasari touches Max, Max turns and belts Hasari in the nose, nailing Hasari to the wall as Max collapses at Hasari's feet. Hasari grabs his nose with one hand and kneels beside the fallen Max... as a shadow moves and startles Hasari. He peers into the dark... and Poomina steps into the light.
another angle		Max on a cot in a tiny, spare room, a butterfly bandage under one eye. Joan, Irish, short, stout, hovers over him. Behind her, Hasari Pal. JOAN Good morning, junior, welcome to our country. Max manages to sit up.   Wishes he hadn't. MAX Oh, I like the way the room moves in circles.  I suppose I should inquire where I am.
joan		You're in the City of Joy. MAX Is that geographic or spiritual? JOAN Oh, now we require that each visitor decide that for himself. This gentleman and a young lady brought you here. MAX Did I do that to your nose? 
32.		CONTINUED: Hasari shrugs, smiles... and a gigantic rat drops in Max's lap. He leaps to his feet and against the wall. The rat scurries away. MAX What was that -- a Shetland pony? JOAN I would have to inspect it more closely, but I believe that was one of our economy-size rats. Max clambers for the door.        Too late, Joan thinks to say...
joan		Watch your -- Max cracks his head on the door frame. MAX Thanks -- got it. He ducks outside for some air.
square		In the dawn light, he finds himself in a small square in a slum, an open sewer running before him. He's repulsed.
max		Pardon the expression, but Jesus H. Christ. From the tea shop, SURYA, a stout old Hindu man dressed in Western clothes, raises a hand in greeting to Joan. On the door Max and Joan have come through: "City of Joy Self Help School & Clinic." Across the way, a young man is dandling a baby on his knee, rubbing its back and sniffing at its neck. Small group of children around a blackboard with a teacher, MARGARETA, doing numbers. RAM CHANDAR, the rickshaw puller, readies to go out to work. Trying to orient himself, Max turns...
another angle		... to find perhaps fifty people, largely women and children, staring at him. 
33.		CONTINUED: He knows them by type:   patients.   He looks at the sign on the door. MAX You a doctor? JOAN Oh no, I'm a corporate executive. Doctor arrives at half seven, but only three days a week. MAX This is obviously one of those three days.
joan		Indeed. What brings you to our country? MAX I came to find my white light. JOAN Ah, yes.   I take it you didn't find it. MAX Kept opening the doors and windows of my spirit, but couldn't see a goddamn thing. JOAN What do you do in America? Max is slow to answer.   Discreetly, Hasari hangs back, listens.
joan		Oh, how exciting. Must be something illegal. Are you a criminal of some sort? MAX I suppose that depends how you define the word: I'm a doctor. JOAN I see. How long are you here? Perhaps I could recruit you for -- MAX Forget it. You've got your non- practicing Catholics. I'm a non- practicing doctor. 
34.		CONTINUED: JOAN How very distressing.     Why's that? MAX Found out I just really don't like sick people. Well, I'm outta here. I owe you one. JOAN I can't imagine ever divining how to collect, but there are a few of us Indians, you know, who believe the tourist trade ought to be encouraged.
35.		CONTINUED: RAM Keep up, of course. Anyone can run at this pace. But you think it's easy to run and to pull? HASARI I can do it.   I could pull it. MAX Come on, give him a shot. He's as fast as you and looks twice as strong. RAM Will you still pay me when he runs you into a ditch? MAX Absolutely.    I trust the man. Suddenly, Ram comes to a stop. RAM All right, you, come, step in here. Hasari looks on Max with enormous gratitude. Ram puts the shafts down, has a short coughing fit, spits some phlegm, looks at Max. MAX I hope you're taking something for that. Ram waves him off as Hasari lifts the shafts to his hips. RAM Now, fine, pull, go. Hasari tries to pull, but the center of gravity isn't easy to find. This is enormously difficult and Hasari's very clumsy at it. The street is crowded. The traffic is beginning to back up behind them. The driver and conductor of the tram let fly a tirade of insults. RAM See, mister! What did I tell you? Come on! What do you think this is -- some village street? You've got to move quickly. He turns to Max. RAM You see, it takes a gift. 
36.		CONTINUED: MAX I say he can do it. I'll bet you the fare he can do it.  What do you think, rickshaw fans, can he do it? The crowd isn't in for fun. Hasari strains forward. The rickshaw moves with him. Ram moves alongside, shouting instructions and oaths. A cop comes on the run, screaming at Hasai... which makes Ram importune more strongly and Max joke more vociferously. Even under this incredible pressue, Hasari gains confidence and begins to move quicker, earning shouts of approval from Max and Ram, who now has trouble keeping up as they make their way through the maelstrom, an avalanche of oaths following them.
37.		CONTINUED: RAM Yes, yes, I am wondering, sir, we are, is it possible you might have something for my friend? Ram indicates Hasari, as if there might be some question to whom he's referring. Ashoka attacks the pimple. RAM Let me explain it for your ears, sir. My cousin from Bihar has just arrived in our city -- GOONDA They've brought a small present -- of respect. The Goonda places a small bundle of rupees on the desk. Ashoka allows himself a disinterested glance at Hasari. ASHOKA So, you want to be a human horse? RAM Oh yes! I have personally witnessed his excellence -- yes. ASHOKA He doesn't talk? Can he neigh at least?  You -- do your ears function? HASARI Oh yes, Babu.    Can I... uhm...?
ashoka		Neigh!   Like a horse. Ashoka pulls back his lips, shows his teeth and imitates a neigh: "Ne-igh! Ne-igh!" HASARI Well, yes, Babu, I can do that. Would you like me to imitate a horse? Finished with the pimple, Ashoka wipes a finger on his shirt and takes a helping off a plate of sweetcakes as...
38.		ANOTHER ANGLE Behind him, The Godfather walks up to the desk, putting his glasses on. He barely glances at his son, but waves him out of the chair. Ashoka doesn't like it, but he steps aside. As he does, he turns a look of hatred on Hasari. Through no fault of his own, Hasari has made an enemy. Ghatak chews on a pan and casts a benevolent eye on Hasari. GHATAK Lift your longhi. Hasari does.    The Godfather looks at his legs and thighs. GHATAK The wise men of our nation say that nirvana is the attainment of a state of supreme detachment. For me, nirvana is counting each evening, one by one, the rupees earned by my two thousand and forty-six rickshaws. Hasari doesn't know whether to respond. A glance at Ram tells him not to. Ghatak gestures for Hasari to lower his longhi. GHATAK You are with family? HASARI I have a wife and three children, Babu. GHATAK And they must eat, heh. The world is full of open mouths. He chews on this a moment, then opens a drawer... and holds a small, tinkling rickshaw bell toward Hasari. Hasari understands that, incredibly, he has a job. His breath is so shallow, he can barely utter his gratitude. He takes the bell. HASARI I shall be eternally grateful to you. From now on, I shall be as the youngest of your brothers. GHATAK Stay loyal. These days, it's a crop nobody plants. The Godfather turns his beatific and Godlike smile on Hasari Pal. 
39.		EXT. MATTRESS SIGN - DAY  Transitor MUSIC. The Pals load the rickshaw that stands at the road with Ram in it. There are embraces with the bruised Arun and his family.
with pals		Reverentially, they follow Ram inside as Joan watches.  INT. RAM'S HUT - NIGHT A door opens. Moonlight. Faces peer through the door. Ram lights an oil lamp. In the glow, the family looks around their tiny space. Hardly able to suppress smiles. HASARI Someone has blessed us. A job, a roof, a school. Soon I'll be able to send money home...  ... and put away a little bit for your dowry. In their excitement, the boys run.
outside		and up to the roof, under the stars.   We LOOK UP WITH them and: DISSOLVE TO:
40.		FADE IN: EXT. SQUARE AND STREET  - DAY About twenty tattered street kids faces shining with en- joyment. They run and shout as they pursue something just out of frame.
wide shot		The cause of the excitement is Hasari running TOWARD us, feet flying, as he pulls the rickshaw, loaded with a huge sack. Manooj and Shambu are clinging to the sides of the machine. Ram stands   in the center of the square. He shouts a command and   Hasari struggles to bring the rickshaw to a stop. It's    not easy and Sunil -- who's arriving -- has to jump out of   the way to the accompaniment of apologies from Hasari and   Ram and hoots of laughter from the children. Outside the clinic, a line of perhaps seventy-five wait patiently, watching as Hasari takes off again. The wheels of the rickshaw hit a rut. Hasari loses control, the sack tips back and Hasari is lifted into the air, feet kicking as he tries to regain his balance. Aloka and Amrita, sitting near the bawling Ram, can't hold back their laughter.
high angle		Hasari's triumphant ride continues and we: DISSOLVE TO:
41.		CONTINUED: RAM Let Hasari go! The line of rickshaw pullers  turns to Hasari. The other pullers wish him well as he  comes forward. His heart pounds; ever so politely, he  helps the School Girl into his carriage. She gives him   the address of the St. Pius School. HASARI I'm sorry, I don't know where that is. You're my very first passenger. SCHOOL GIRL Really.   Well, I hope I bring you luck. She gives him a sweet smile. SCHOOL GIRL That way, and then to the right. His moment has arrived. He looks at Ram... and thrusts his hips forward, setting off into the insanity of the traffic, eyes flicking left and right. A HORN RAILS at him and a taxi tries to run him down, calling and laugh- ing as Hasari jumps in terror. RAM  Feed the police! Other pullers laugh,  call after Hasari... and as he approaches the first  corner, he manages to pull out a rupee and deposit it  into the hand of the impassive traffic policeman and  then turn right.
42.		INT. SMALL RESTAURANT - DAY Max is trying to explain to the waiter what he wants. MAX Beef. You know -- cow? Minced, little salt, pepper, slap it flat like this, throw it on the grill, flip it. Now, though, he just glimpses the shiny gas tank and engine of a motorcycle around the hip of the waiter. He leans out.
with ashoka		He pulls the boy's ear, REVS the ENGINE to go... and senses someone close. He turns to find an American hovering at his shoulder. MAX You know, I have to say you really don't look Jewish. I believe that's mine.
43.		SEVERAL CUTS Ashoka, glancing back, begins to open up some distance. Yet, Max hangs tough, weaving like a broken field runner through the mass of bodies and vehicles. Now, suddenly, he loses Ashoka. He has to make a choice about this corner or that one. He chooses.
cop		Passport, please, now. MAX Ready my lips: I do not have my passport with me at this...  Ah, I see, said the blind man. The Cop obviously is doing this at Ashoka's behest. Max starts around the Cop. The Cop, however, sticks his club in Max's face; there's fire in Max's eyes... but a hand takes the Cop's stick before Max can make a big mistake.
44.		ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING OWNER OF HAND The girls with the cricket equipment . The hand belongs to Joan Bethel. JOAN Well, all right, junior, so you'll owe me three.
resume		With great pride, Hasari pays the scribe, seals the money order with the message in an envelope, licks the flap, and puts the envelope into the mail slot.
45.		CONTINUED: They stare at each other. Shambu has become one of Surya's tea boys and refills their tea. JOAN You know what I've come to think in my middle age, Max? MAX Nope, no, earthly idea. You're pretty much outta my league, thought-wise. JOAN There are really only three actions open to a person.
max		Only three -- okay.   And what are they? JOAN To run, to spectate, to commit. Max peers at her a moment, then around the square. MAX Has it occurred to you that this obsession with charity is really a flaw in your character? JOAN Charity! It's not charity, dear child, it's love. You're very badly twisted around, aren't you? MAX One of us sure as hell is. The clinic's part-time doctor, SUNIL DASGUPTA, comes out of the clinic after a very long day. SUNIL I'm off for home, Sister Joan. A pleasure to meet you, Dr. Loeb. MAX The same. SUNIL See you day after tomorrow. JOAN Good night, God bless, Doctor. 
46.		CONTINUED: As he watches Sunil head away, Max senses something com- ing at him from the side. A soccer ball almost hits him; he jumps up, handles the ball athletically.
square		He begins to play with Manooj and several other children. Shambu leaves his post in the tea shop to join them. MANOOJ Are you the American doctor?    Are you coming here to help us. MAX No, I'm the visiting American soccer star, El Max. MANOOJ Do you go to the cinema in America, El Max? MAX When I was your age -- two movies, plus cartoons every Saturday. Aloka and Amrita are cooking on an open fire bucket. Max almost knocks the fire over. Aloka looks at him, apolo- getic, shy... as Manooj knocks Shambu down at Max's feet. Max scoops the little boy up... MAX There you go, little guy.    Ut -- what's this? Reaching behind Shambu's ear, Max produces a boiled sweet. Aloka watches this with a smile; their eyes touch again... as Manooj lets out a cry at the sight of their father.
another angle		Ram and Hasari return home. Hasari can hardly walk. Shambu runs to his father, explaining excitedly... SHAMBU Daddy, there is the doctor from America. He saw two movies every Saturday. What's in your fist? Open, Daddy! Shambu pries his father's fist open:   seeds. 
47.		CONTINUED: SHAMBU Seeds?   Why? HASARI So we can watch something grow.
ram		Another few months, I'll be able to pay off the moneylender in my village and go home and open a grocery shop. All around me sacks overflowing with all kinds of dal and rice, aromatic spices, piles of vegetables... and at night, I'll lie on my back beneath the trees sniffing fresh aubergines. This beautiful picture burrows into Hasari's mind.   For a moment, he goes there -- home, to the village... RAM If my wife will let me come within a hundred miles of the place where she herself resides. Ram laughs, Hasari smiles...
hasari		Amrita, I saw a beautiful wedding sari today. Amrita is terribly embarrassed. RAM It was six hundred rupees only. He laughs at the impossibility of the price. MAX That's only 40 dollars, isn't it? HASARI If you have it. 
48.		CONTINUED: MAX I'll send it to you from America when I get home tomorrow. HASARI That's very generous but no, thank you. MAX Repayment for punching you in the nose. HASARI You have repaid me by sharing our supper.
another angle		It's an amazing sight. Two lepers: ANOUAR, bearded with a sharp intelligent, unmarked face, makes his way along on a small wheeled board, at an amazingly fast pace, ahead of SAID, a huge, mute leper. They stop some feet away. Lepers aren't often welcome. Out from behind Said steps Poomina. POOMINA Joan Di, my sister! 
49.		CONTINUED: She sees Max, gasps, throws herself behind Said. Joan looks at Max -- he starts to speak, she points a finger that silences him... JOAN It was Poomina who brought you to us. She has herself and her sister to support. It's all right, Poomina. Anouar, what is it? She moves to them.   They're all three badly out of breath.
anouar		It's Meeta! It's her time. But something is wrong. The midwives don't know what to do! Dr. Sunil, could he help, perhaps? JOAN Dr. Sunil isn't here. POOMINA Meeta will die.
another angle		Joan turns to Max, who hasn't heard the exchange. JOAN Max, I wouldn't ask, but it's an emergency. A pregnancy gone awry. It's a leper. Could you have a look? Max is clearly thrown by the sight of the lepers. MAX I don't have any experience with leprosy. JOAN Good Christ, son, because she's a leper doesn't mean she's not built like a woman! HASARI I can run and get Dr. Sunil. JOAN It's too far. 
50.		CONTINUED: Suddenly, impulsively... ALOKA I could help.    I've had three babies. RAM You can't do that. They're outcasts, they're unclean. There are murmurs of assent from the others. JOAN Oh nonsense!    It's not contagious!
51.		CONTINUED: A middle-age leper is leaning over her -- a midwife, encouraging Meeta with a string of commands in their own language. Max kneels, Aloka at his side.   His breathing becomes shallow... but then he pulls off  the blood-soaked bandages. Between Meeta's legs   he can just make out the bottom of a foot. The child   is breached. Maybe already dead. ALOKA Will she die? Max goes into reflex actions. Joan has opened the first aid kit. There's a flashlight among the medicine, alcohol, compresses, scissors, etc. He hands the flash- light to Aloka as... MAX  Pull me two c.c.'s of Coramine. He nods at Aloka; she illuminates the scene. MAX Uh-oh, uh-oh, who's this coming' down the lane? Why it's -- is it possible -- way over here, in India -- yes, it's Mr. Choke. He comes to a stop. Everyone stares at him. Meeta moans. For a moment, he stays frozen. Aloka reaches out instinctively, wipes the sweat from his eyes. This gesture seems to free him; he looks at her, looks at the room and its expectant, trusting faces...
max		I'm going to have to turn it -- the baby. Tell her she has to relax these muscles as much as she can. He doesn't finish the sentence. Aloka speaks softly to Meeta as Max takes Meeta's arm, makes a tourniquet. Joan hands him the syringe and he injects. Hands the syringe back to Joan and begins to work at turning the baby. Aloka takes Meeta's hand and it's a moment before we realize Aloka, with her fine hand, is holding Meeta's fingerless palm.
52.		OUTSIDE A small group waits, trying to determine from the sounds what's happening inside. Anouar pours tea from a pot on the small fire, offers the cup to Hasari. Hasari stares at the cup, doesn't want to be impolite, but more than that, doesn't want to touch the cup. He shakes his head, smiles. Anouar drinks off the tea.
inside		Sweat pours down Max's face into his eyes. He shakes it out. Aloka leans forward and, with her new sari, wipes the sweat away again. Max nods thanks. MAX Tell her again to breathe in short little bursts now. He demonstrates. Aloka does the same to Meeta. Meeta tries to cooperate. And suddenly Max has the baby turned. MAX All right!   Now, tell her to push. Aloka translates. Meeta pushes.      The midwife, the little girl, Aloka lean forward. MAX Again.   Yes!   Again.   It's coming.
outside		No one is sitting now. Everyone hangs close to the door. Only Hasari remains apart, seated on a tree stump in the middle of the quad. He coughs; suppresses it.
inside		MAX I've got the head. Come on, little baby, come on, little baby. Be alive, be alive, be alive. Aloka wipes the sweat away again. He looks at her, his voice squeezed out through his teeth. MAX We've got it, we've got it.     Yeah! 
53.		CONTINUED: He seems as released as Meeta. Then he gives a last gentle tug and a CRY squeezes out of the little piece of life in his hands. Max is fairly overwhelmed by the life in his hands. Poomina steps close, a smile on her lovely face, and touches the baby in Max's hands.
joan		Then what do you want? What are you going to be when you grow up? Good night, Aloka, Hasari. Joan goes inside, leaving Max, Aloka, and a very uncom- fortable Hasari alone a moment. ALOKA Thank you for allowing me to go with you. MAX You could make a helluva nurse. A little smile comes over her face; no one's ever paid her that kind of compliment. She goes into Ram's hut, leaving Max and Hasari now. 
54.		CONTINUED: HASARI I think perhaps you are a good man. Hasari brings his hands together and goes inside.
55.		INT. AIRPORT - DAY It's a small place; it's sweltering, and it's packed with hundreds of families shoulder to shoulder. Though Betsy's trying to be discreet, it's not a very private place, as we see by the number of people watching Max and Betsy. BETSY I bought it, I got a refund! MAX But I want to go home with you. BETSY You want to go home with me?
max		Yes. BETSY Then prove it. MAX Good -- how -- name it. BETSY Buy yourself a ticket. MAX I would love to do    that, Betsy Ilene, boy would I    love to do just that, but I'm    financially embarrassed at the    -- BETSY Use your credit cards.
max		What credit cards? You know I maxed them before we left. Just lend me -- BETSY No! You won't pay me back; you never have. Oh, Max! MAX They're calling our flight. I want to go home with you, Betsy Ilene Kahn. Because I have a vision. It's... He's trying to woo and charm her.    He mimes a kind of house shape.
56.		CONTINUED: MAX I see you and me, Betsy Ilene Kahn, nibbling toward each other through a quarter pounder with cheese, chugalugging a frosty light beer -- great taste! Less filling! Bowling! I want to go bowling, Besty Ilene Kahn! He fires a strike through the watching crowd. MAX I want... Oh, my Lord Amighty, I want so many American things --
betsy		Oh, stop it! You have no earthly idea what you want, Max! And stop calling me Betsy Ilene Kahn. MAX Isn't that your name? BETSY You call me Betsy Ilene Kahn like you just met me yesterday. MAX What should I call you?   My girl, my significant other -- BETSY Don't get cute! You get cute and I swear to God --- you told me once I look like my mother!
max		You do -- so what? BETSY See -- you don't understand! MAX How could I possibly not understand a conversation as easy as this one, Betsy Ilene. BETSY I hate you! MAX Na ya don't. 
57.		CONTINUED: BETSY I stood by you for three years! MAX I know. BETSY I supported you through your internship! MAX You did. BETSY Why? It was never working. What have I been thinking all these years -- that you'd change? You're the most self-pitying, self-destructive, self... She can't find anything fierce enough, so she abates, tries to get it together to make a dignified exit. BETSY But you've taught me something, Max. You never finish anything. Well, I quit. I've found my light and I'm free of you. She heads for the gate, people parting to give her a wide berth.
58.		CONTINUED: MAX Guerilla theater, folks. 'All the world's a stage.'  Don't know if that word reached you here yet. If you'd care to show your appreciation by a small donation... Many smiles... and several instant offers of rupees.      A beat, then... MAX Aw, what the hell. ... Swallowing his incredible embarrassment, Max takes the money.
59.		THEIR POV Max approaches. A buzz    about Max's heroics; hands coming together. Max raises a    hand in benediction, makes the sign of the cross. Max    claps Hasari on the shoulder; Hasari brings his hands   together and gives Max a genuinely pleased smile.    Children circle and touch him, Manooj and Shambu among   them.
60.		CONTINUED: JOAN Not worth the aggravation of your prattle every day. Six months -- and not a day less. MAX No way. Six weeks -- and that's my best offer. JOAN Two months -- and that's my final offer. MAX  Done. JOAN Jesus and Mary. The Lone Ranger rides again. And now smiles creep onto all their faces as Max goes inside, followed by Joan... and then Aloka -- after she looks at Hasari, gets his nod of encouragement. Too late, Joan says... JOAN Watch your -- Thud! MAX Thanks -- got it. The children titter. The teacher, Margareta, admonishes them to pay attention and be polite... as we --
fade out.		FADE IN: EXT. SCHOOL GIRL'S HOUSE - HASARI'S WHEELS - DAY 
61.		CONTINUED: HASARI I'm sorry, forgive me.   It won't happen again. SCHOOL GIRL We're not going to school today. You're taking my mother and me to the Bara Bazar. I'm getting married! HASARI Oh, I am so pleased for you! Panting helplessly, Hasari smiles... as he helps the School Girl's Mother into the rickshaw.
mother		Good morning, Hasari. HASARI Good morning, missus. Briskly, he takes up the shafts and sets off. MOTHER Turn right at that corner, Hasari. HASARI It's farther that way, missus. MOTHER No, not really. Turn there, please. Obediently, Hasari turns  and Hasari pulls AWAY FROM us.
62.		CONTINUED: MOTHER  Don't say things like that. He's never going to be able to buy anything here.
on hasari		He watches from outside, a look of determination coming over his face. Suddenly a pair of fingers takes hold of his ear, twisting his face painfully.
ashoka		Keep working. Give this to Sister Joan and your friend the doctor when you go home. Now he hands Hasari a sealed envelope and turns his ear loose. Hasari springs toward his passenger.
63.		CONTINUED: MAX He's just malnourished. Is she giving him the milk we gave her or selling it? Aloka asks Meeta in Hindi. Meeta clearly swears she's giving the baby the milk. Aloka pushes her. ALOKA Not all.     Most. MAX Tell her to give all the milk to the baby.
64.		CONTINUED: "... Deep in the heart of Texas, around the Frisco Bay..." Manooj and Shambu come charging at Max with the soccer ball, hoping to engage him as a playmate. Hasari returns home with his rickshaw. Selima waves at Max, indicates she's cooking dinner. Joan wanders out of the school as the kids are released and go charging through the square. Joan has the Pal kids in hand. SELIMA Very special supper for you tonight, Doctor Big Brother!   Will you stay?
max		Wish I could, Selima,  because I'm sure hungry! Sixteen   hours of pestilence and misery  always make me famished. I have   to go with my man Anouar tonight.   I've got lepers to heal! ANOUAR No, no, you know how patient we are. Eat, eat. MAX 
65.		CONTINUED: MAX Fifteen years from now: Miami, Florida, Dr. Manooj Pal, in association with Dr. Maxwell Loeb. For a moment, Hasari is swept up in this little reverie, then remembers reality. HASARI  From the godfather's son. For you and the doctor. Amidst instant concern, Joan opens the envelope.   Looks at Max. We hear the sound of BANGLADESH MUSIC.
66.		CONTINUED: GHATAK Of course. That's very good. Admirable. And we'd be pleased to rent you suitable space. But you must understand that certain payments will go up. JOAN I understand the rent would have to go up if we rent larger quarters from you, Mr. Ghatak, but why should we have to pay more protection? GHATAK More people, more potential trouble. Strangers. If I don't charge you, what will I tell others? JOAN But we can't afford it! GHATAK Surely if you can expand, you can pay more. Joan throws up her hands -- how do you reason with this man? MAX Am I stupid, but isn't this protection money money we're paying you to protect us from you? GHATAK We live in chaotic times, Miss Bethel, Doctor. I control the City of Joy and maintain it as a model of harmony. It's a miracle, but a very fragile miracle. MAX And how are we threatening your miracle? GHATAK I admire your courage in choosing to work in such a violent place, Miss Bethel. 
67.		CONTINUED: GHATAK  Your neighbors in the City of Joy, they're not educated, they're given to violence, to meanness, I can promise you they won't like having lepers among them, but because they know you're under my protection... He dispatches a globule of spit into the copper urn next to his right toe... and tries to get to his feet. The Goonda hurries forward to help him. GHATAK Doctor, do you like our music?
max		Well, I can't say I've developed a craving for it yet. GHATAK It's difficult to appreciate what we don't understand, isn't it? Let me put it another way: The world is a terrible place. Only the ruthless prevail. My son will make the arrangements with you. One of the thugs helps the godfather outside, where, in the b.g., we see him listening to his music and pottering in his garden. As Max and Joan turn, Max finds himself face to face with Ashoka, who wears Max's necklace and chai. There's a long pause as the two of them take the other's measure. MAX 
68.		CONTINUED: ASHOKA I'm told you're very resourceful. MAX I think I see a solution. May I? What if we were to work out a profit-sharing arrangement? We give you a share of our net profit. ASHOKA How do you expect to make a profit off of lepers and the poor, Doctor? MAX Beats the hell outta me, asshole. But you've obviously found a way. The question would seem to be whether Ashoka will have Max killed here or outside the house. His eyes on Max, Ashoka puts the cigarette out against the back of his hand... and smiles at Max.
69.		ANOTHER ANGLE Hasari, with Shambu in the rickshaw, arrives to take the children home. As he looks inside, he notices...
hasari's pov		Not far from Amrita sits a handsome boy . He catches Amrita's eyes. Amrita is sweetly embarrassed to find her father staring at her.
on hasari		But he can't help but smile. At the same time he's re- minded moment to moment of his various obligations.
70.		INT. JOAN'S ROOM Max's cigar. He sits slightly apart from Joan, Sunil, Aloka, Ram, Hasari, Selima, Margareta, Surya, SALADDIN, ASHISH and Shanta, Aristotle John, MEHBOUB, Anouar, and Said. Hasari is stretched out, Aloka rubbing his screaming legs. Throughout the following, their eyes meet and deflect... SALADDIN The Godfather is at least civilized. The son is vicious. Remember the last elections -- the Molotov coctails, the blows with iron bars. They'll throw us out. We won't be able to find anyone else to rent to us. We'll just have to agree to pay what he wants. MEHBOUB Saladdin's right. Neither nature nor the people with the power have any conscience. We have to pay. A sigh escapes Surya.   He shakes his head.    Eyes flick at him. ASHISH What do you say, Doctor Big Brother? SUNIL I think we must try to break the Godfather's hold on us.
71.		CONTINUED: MAX  You try to negotiate with these people, you make compromises with them, they'll eat you alive. Stand up against them now and they'll fold. I guarantee it. Underneath, they're cowards, they got no guts. We show them we're strong and the'll just move on to easier pickings. ASHISH We?   You have an airplane ticket. Still, he's clearly piqued a lot of support.
sunil		You know, Max, this is not American gangster television. SALADDIN Yes, if you're wrong, you don't have to be here. MAX I'm not wrong. You bow your heads, you plead with your Gods to do what you won't do yourselves. You put up with this nightmare as if there were no choice. I'm telling you, if you don't stand up to that little pimple face now, he'll own you for the rest of your lives. Everyone stares at him. Many of them want to buy his commitment. There's another large sigh from Surya. Aloka and Hasari's eyes bang off of each other, she silently urging him to speak. He's deeply conflicted and deeply frightened. ANOUAR Even though I am invisible to some of you and I don't have a complete set of legs to stand on, I stand with the Doctor Big Brother. Maybe nature doesn't have a conscience or those with the power, but don't we? Said, the giant mute, mades an unintelligible sound in his throat, but clearly he's agreeing with Anouar. 
72.		CONTINUED: MARGARETA I agree with Anouar and Max Daddah. I think it's worth the chance. Silence... until Aloka and Hasari's meet again and, out of his terrible fear and conflict, he says very shyly... HASARI Is it permitted to speak? There are quick nods around the room.   With great difficulty, Hasari says his piece. HASARI I want my children to be educated and cared for; this is our home, we have never had such friends. But many of us owe a great debt to the Godfather. He is strong and could kill us... But we must choose. I trust my Big Brother. I say we must stand up. There's still dissension, but somewhat more support. Said makes a fierce, unintelligible supportive sound. Surya sighs again. Eyes flick at the old man. SUNIL Sister Joan, what do you think, really? JOAN Well, I think Max has hit on the heart of what we're trying to build here: a self-help society. Each of us has to decide for himself. As for me, I suppose I think, really, that if the bastards are going to suck us dry, I'd like to get in a couple of good left- handers before I turn the other cheek. SALLADIN But who will rent to us! Surya clucks his tongue and shakes his head; everyone assumes he is preparing a heated refutation of the resisters. His sighs, though, have been a building commitment. 
73.		CONTINUED: SURYA I have a property I will    rent you for two hundred rupees a    month, and not a rupee less. As     for protection... you are on    your own. Many of the faces are uncertain -- Hasari's notable among them.
74.		CONTINUED: I) UPSTAIRS AND STAIRWELL Hasari and Max    move the last cot upstairs and into place beside a    window that will come into play at the end  UPSTAIRS
75.		CONTINUED: He thrusts the paper at Max.   Max takes a pen from his pocket. MAX Okay -- shott. RAM Yes -- what is the word -- that word -- when land is watered... with canals? MAX "Irrigation"? RAM Yes, yes, that word, I want that word in the letter. Max looks at him, nods, waits.   Ram stares at Max; waits. MAX Well? RAM Well? MAX What would you like to say to your wife? RAM I don't know, Max Daddah. If I knew what to say to my wife, I'd never have left home. Everybody laughs, though Ram's remark hits Max on a deeper level. Manooj slides in beside him. MANOOJ Why do you have to go home, Doctor Babu? ALOKA Because he doesn't live here, Manooj. This is not his home. A look between Max and Aloka; Hasari's eyes flicking at both of them... as Aloka's eyes come to Hasari. The cigar reaches Ram. As Max starts to write, Ram takes a large puff and blows a huge ring out of his mouth. We FOLLOW it.
76.		ABOVE A whole row of faces on rooftops enjoying the cigar. This as we: DISSOLVE TO:
max		Na, I'll just trot alongside Hasari. HASARI No, please, get in. Max climbs into the rickshaw beside the two lepers and Hasari pulls away. ANOUAR Meeta's very excited by this ride through Calcutta. You see, she's never been sightseeing before. Meeta, of course, is blind.   Max, Hasari, Anouar laugh. MAX You're incorrigible, Anouar. 
77.		CONTINUED: ANOUAR Yes, yes, I know, thank you very much. As the rickshaw disappears into the sea of people and vehicles, we hear Anouar and Max LAUGHING.
78.		CONTINUED: As if indeed she were right, their path is suddenly cut off by the Goonda and a commando of thugs, armed with sticks and iron bars, backed up by a group carrying banners with slogans proclaiming in Hindi, Urdu, English: "We Don't Want Lepers Here!" There's a sudden uneasy silence. Behind the thugs a short distance is the policeman who harassed Max earlier and another cop. Joan hurries forward. GOONDA Good morning, Sister to the poor. JOAN Yes, Mr. Bhose?
goonda		Those people aren't coming into this neighborhood. JOAN They are going to be treated at the dispensary. You have no right to stop them.
another angle		Hasari arrives with Max, Anouar, and Meeta. JOAN Go ahead, Aloka, take them inside. The Goonda puts his hand on Aloka.   The policeman in the b.g. keep their distance. JOAN Take your hands off her, you waster! Joan is seized by a sudden fury and grabs the Goonda. He grabs her much harder. Said growls and pushes forward. Several thugs turn, step in to neutralize him. Joan elbows the Goonda and tires to westle free of him. As a reflex he raises his hand. And as he does, it's seized.
another angle		Max 
79.		CONTINUED: MAX The mistake's yours, putz.  Get these people inside. Aloka starts forward, leading the lepers. She's stopped by a sudden blow from the Goonda's stick across her shoulders, knocking her to the ground, bleeding from the neck. Hasari bolts for his wife, gets caught up in the melee. Max swings   around on the Goonda and for the first time we realize how   strong he is, and that he knows how to box. The Goonda   goes down and violence erupts. Anouar is chopping at   the legs of one of the thugs working on Said. The massive   Said tears free and starts to beat the crap out of the   two thugs holding him. The noise brings everyone out of the square, those lined up at the clinic, the children from the school. Sunil comes flying out of the clinic. A stampede of those waiting outside the dispensary and those normally in the crowded alley ensues. Shanta runs inside for help. Shopkeepers barricade their shop windows. One of the thugs pours gasoline over Anouar and  lights a match. Hasari kneels beside Aloka when he sees   the match ignite the tiny leper. Without thinking,   Hasari hurls himself on top of Anouar, rolling him in  the dirt and against his own body to put out the flames. Joan shouts, demanding the violence stop. She's hit from behind; she decides talk isn't going to do it. She grabs a piece of lumber and starts to fight.
80.		ANOTHER ANGLE Ashoka astride his motorcycle, behind his dark glasses, with more thugs, these with Molotov cocktails and pick- axes, ready to raze the clinic and school and the surrounding neighborhood. Sunil drags Mehboub inside. People chant: "White Monkeys, go home! White Monkeys, go home! No lepers here! No lepers here!" The thugs cock their iron bars and bricks and Molotov cocktails. Max picks up an iron bar of his own and starts for Ashoka. Suddenly, there's a DETONATION followed by a BLAST of air so fierce, Max is thrown to the ground. A bottle of GASOLINE has EXPLODED just behind him. He's enveloped in smoke.
81.		CONTINUED: A beat... Saladdin is at Joan's shoulder.     Ashoka points a finger at Hasari. ASHOKA You. I warned you about the company you keep. He REVS his MOTORCYCLE and SCREECHES away, leaving Hasari staring after him in his dust.
joan		I'll try. MAX Don't goddamn try, Joan!   Goddamn do it! Poomina peers through her pain at Max, his hands putting her back together. MAX  I hate this place, I hate this place, I hate this place. Max looks at the doorway and he locks eyes with Hasari. Max breaks the contact. Hasari stares at him as we hear the godfather's MUSIC on the RADIO.
82.		EXT. GODFATHER'S COURTYARD - HAND AND PENCIL - DAY A hand tap, tap, taps against a ledger.
courtyard		Ashoka sits behind a little table, picking absently at his face. The Goonda is slouched near the table, smoking a cigarette and fiddling with a thin switch.  The Goonda has a bruise under one eye from his altercation in the City of Joy yesterday. The air is filled with the MUFFLED SOUNDS OF the STREET. FROM here, we can see the evermore enfeebled godfather in his "throne room," wrapped in a cashmere, listening to the radio. Ashoka looks up, stares impassively at someone. ASHOKA Well.    What have you got to say?
another angle		For the first time, we see who Ashoka's speaking to. HASARI I told them that your father provides us with a great deal and that -- Ashoka slams his hand on the register. ASHOKA From this minute, you   are off the list! You will leave    your rickshaw here... where it will   be reserved for a man who deserves   our trust. He stands up.       Hasari is near tears. HASARI Please, Babu, this is as if the ground has opened up. I have to speak to Mr. Ghatak! Hasari starts for the house. The Goonda stops him and, quickly, has Hasari on his knees, his arm twisted pain- fully behind his back. Ashoka jumps at Hasari, grabs his ear. ASHOKA My father's ill! You are speaking to me! 
83.		CONTINUED: HASARI I have a family! ASHOKA The decision is made. I have made it. Now get out before I have Mr. Bhose break your legs. He gives Hasari's ear a vicious twist and slams his head against the table.
84.		CONTINUED: MAX I didn't do the best I could! I did what I always do! I shot my big mouth off and did a half-assed job. And what I want to do now is I want to go back to America and make money and live a life without entanglements and demands and people hanging on me. JOAN  Running spectator. JOAN Then, by all means, go home, Max, and go with my blessing and my eternal friendship. The candlelight flickers against them as they sit side by side. Neither speaks.
85.		CONTINUED: MAX So what do you want me to do about it -- get it back for you? Max takes away a step.   Stops. MAX I'm sorry. I'm going home. Because this isn't my fight. I got one person to look after -- me. Hasari stares at Max. On the roof, the children listen. At the tea shop, the late-night talkers listen.
max		All right, I'm running out,   okay? Because I'm a coward, this   is me, this is what I do, I get in   over my head, I let people down,   I run. HASARI But I trusted you. MAX Well, that was your goddamn mistake! Max walks away, leaving Hasari desolate.   Aloka comes to him. HASARI I don't know how I'm going to pay the rent, how we're going to eat. ALOKA We have what is saved for Amrita's dowry. The thought of using the dowry is yet another awful blow to Hasari's hopes. HASARI The children must leave the school; they'll have to work. And you will not have anything to do with the clinic or those people anymore. Ram joins them. RAM What I earn is yours, too. 
86.		CONTINUED: HASARI You can't support all of us. You have a family in your village, too. Hasari touches his friend and goes into:
another angle		Hasari seated on the stool, watching his blood leave his body, his face again broken out in perspiration.
87.		ANOTHER ANGLE There, in the entrance to a building, is Gangooly. Seeing a potential victim, he swoops in. GANGOOLY Not well, brother? HASARI Still stealing from refugees? Gangooly looks at Hasari, recognizes him, and gives him an amazing smile. GANGOOLY Well, yes, I remember you, of course -- hello! I am delighted to see you -- yes. And tell me immediately, please -- your little family, your beautiful children, everyone eats, yes. Come, have a cup of tea or a little something stronger, we must celebrate. Gangooly starts to move, to position himself for a get- away. Hasari blocks his egress, unsmiling. GANGOOLY Ah, well, you're angry    at me, yes, I wondered if that was    still on your mind -- I am full    of regret about that, yes, even    a little tormented. What can I     say? I have the spirit of an eagle    trapped in the body of a crow. HASARI I'm touched.
gangooly		My friend, I am lame and I am poor. Does that mean that I shouldn't survive? Huh? When a man is struggling in a rough sea, he clutches onto what he can or he drowns. You don't look so well. HASARI I lost my rickshaw. Gangooly gives Hasari an appraising look for a moment, then... 
88.		CONTINUED: GANGOOLY Ach! I  have an offer. No, listen!  Shiva be my witness, you must at least think about this. Please, I can help... Or my name is not Mr. Gangooly. HASARI Which, fortunately, it is.
gangooly		Remove the children from the school -- no, why? When you, the father, can make a small sacrifice. Nature has foreseen your plight. For she has given you two eyes, yes, and two kidneys. But. To live, you have need of one only. I have a friend who sold his kidney -- this one -- and now -- believe me, this is the truth -- he lives in a brick home... which he owns. That smile.
90.		CONTINUED: ALOKA You did good things.  Thank you for coming to our country. And now Max heads out the door.
joan		It's not like  he's royalty or anything, so  I'm not persuaded we have to wait  for the plane to actually take  off. ALOKA No.   We should go. Yet, they   remain another moment... then get up. Joan puts her   arm around Aloka and they turn to go. The looks on their   faces suggest they've come face to face with something   startling.
91.		CONTINUED: MAX I need Aloka at the clinic.  Come on, man, this is between you and me. Why take the kids out of school, why punish your wife? Hasari holds his anger in; he moves to a mat and lies down, his back to Max. But Max doesn't go. MAX I have a little money, I can get it from the States... HASARI It's not a question of money. We'll survive on our own. That's it. Hasari lies with his back to Max. After some moments of silence, Aloka indicates Max should go. And he does. After another moment... ALOKA Maybe he's right. The clinic is for everyone and if I am needed -- Hasari bolts up, a look of anger on his face we've never seen. HASARI No! I'm your husband and you'll do as I say! Unless, of course, you've become an American wife and then you'll do as you please! HASARI Stay away from them. They are not part of us. They will only be good to you as long as you please them. The children, Aloka are frozen, she very close to tears. Hasari lies back down, again turns his back on them.
92.		INT. ROOM - DAY Max unwraps a bandage from a leper's partial limb. Looks around for Aloka. She's not there. Said is acting as his nurse. Points at his instruments. MAX Hand me the scissors, please. Helpfully Said hands him the tweezers. MAX Scissors, scissors. He demonstrates. Said fumbles through the instruments, picking up the scissors by the ends.
max		Not that end -- No, that's fine, thanks, I've got it.
93.		CONTINUED: The pullers whip the tarp off. A battered rickshaw, the springs poking out of the seat, the broken wheels lying in the body, the finish scarred and gouged, one shaft broken. MAX How much?
max		I'd like to show you something. Just take a minute. A beat as Hasari fixes Max with an empty stare and the family waits to see if Hasari will respond. MAX Go ahead.   Go on.
the rickshaw		Piled up in its ruin. MAX I'm good with my hands. You're good with yours. What do you say? Hasari looks at Max, part resentful, part touched. HASARI If I were to go on the street with this machine, I would end up in a gutter with my throat cut. 
94.		CONTINUED: MAX Well, it's yours if you want it. You know the license, the cops, all that can be fixed. You'll own this -- it'll have nothing to do with the Godfather. HASARI Doctor Daddah, I'm just a small man. Don't try to tempt me again with big thoughts. Hasari starts to leave.    Max blocks his way. MAX You didn't want me to quit.    Well, I came back. HASARI But can you be trusted? MAX I hope so. Hasari can see the hope and desire in Max's face. After a moment, Max steps aside. Hasari bends his head and makes off. Leaving Max and a small sigh of disappointment.
another angle		Max, in an Indian shirt, heading for the square; rather naturally, he brings his hands together in the Indian salutation. He carries several bottles of distilled water, a large value pack of bar soap, and a carton of medical supplies. As he passes, his eyes hook on Aloka's. He lifts a hand in greeting. After a moment, she ducks her head. He turns and continues on coming face to face with Ram, an enormous smile on his face. With him, Hasari. He glances at his wife in the water. MAX 
95.		CONTINUED: When Hasari doesn't answer... RAM Yes, he is. Ram has a small coughing fit. MAX Are you taking your medicine? RAM Yes, yes, but look at this. He points at the wheel  of his rickshaw; the rim is cracked. Scornfully,   Hasari walks on. Max and Ram glance after him. Max   digs out several rupees. Ram takes them and goes.   Max looks after the two men as they disappear. When   he turns...
another angle		...he finds himself face to face with Aloka. Without a word, they start walking side by side toward the square. It's several seconds before she says... ALOKA He's very proud. They walk on in silence -- two friends, separated by a gulf.
96.		EXT. CLINIC - COURTYARD - DAY The street children's school now takes up two rooms. Children peer out of one room now as, to the accompani- ment of Surya's zither, twenty or so girls are doing some Indian classical dancing, under the eye of a young Indian teacher. Across the way, in the other room, some children are translating Bengali words into English. A boy is writing on the board. It's Manooj. We see that Shambu is in the same class.
joan		Of course.     Come with me, please. Joan leaves, followed by The Goonda. Max works care- fully at the fine line of scabbing on Poomina's scar... but then something takes his attention.
97.		INT. STORAGE ROOM Startled, frightened, Hasari presses himself against the wall, as does Manooj. Hasari is wearing a wet dhoti, caught in the middle of straightening the wheel rim of the old rickshaw. HASARI Close the door! Max is very surprised but, needless to say, pleased.      He looks at the rickshaw, looks at Hasari. HASARI Close the door. The Godfather has more eyes than a pineapple.
98.		CONTINUED: We hear the sound of CRACKING NUTS as we MOVE FROM Manooj to three kids we've seen in the neighborhood  Thanks, guys. Who wants to go for more peanuts? No one. We're talking about rapt attention.   We hear NUTS CRACKING. Max smiles.
100.		EXT. MEDWAR PINE MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - NIGHT The arrive at the gates of the huge, Victorian hospital. People sleep outside the gates.
101.		CONTINUED: MAX Then take me to one! As Max takes flight with the Attendant, Aloka strokes Shambu and Hasari hovers. We CLOSE IN ON Shambu's inanimate face and HOLD a moment.
another angle		Max hurtles down the corridor with a young INTERN in tow. Almost a kid, he's been up for days. But he's going to help. INTERN This way, please. Max scoops Shambu up and rushes down the corridor behind the Intern, leaving Hasari and Aloka looking after him. His arm comes around her shoulders.
max		We pinned his leg. Couple of months, he'll be better than ever. They want to keep him today. We're a good team. Gimme five. He smiles, holds out a palm for them to slap. They look at the palm, unsure what this means. Yet, each takes Max's hand. EXT. CLINIC - COURTYARD - DAY The whole community is here, around the tree. 
102.		CONTINUED: JOAN I don't think it was an accident. I think they were aiming for Max. So, what we have to ask ourselves is whether his presence is endangering all of us. ANOUAR Even from my low vantage point, I know this: It's the son. He's mad. HASARI Max Daddah is our friend. If they're trying to harm him, then they're trying to harm all of us. We must stand by him as one.
103.		CONTINUED: MAX So, what have you been doing -- incubating it? RAM I was afraid. Ram waits, his hands twisting each other. MAX 'My dear husband...' RAM Oh that's very hopeful so far!
max		'Your words brought tears of joy to my arid eyes.' RAM Oh, I'm in love! My words brought tears to her arid eyes!  What does that mean -- arid? Manooj throws his hand up. MANOOJ I know!   Dry. MAX Correct. Her eyes were dry, your letter irrigated them. RAM Aaah!
104.		CONTINUED: MAX CONT'D) I think Ashoka was after me. You can bet he'll be after you too. HASARI I'm going to speak to his father. MAX Can I go with you? I'll go with you. Can I go with you if I shut up? A beat... and Hasari gives him a small nod.
another angle		We see Hasari and Max blocking the street with the new rickshaw. The Goonda jumps out of the car, comes threateningly at Hasari. HASARI Babu, please, I beg you, hear my words! As the Goonda is about to land on Hasari we hear a feeble...
ghatak		Wait. The Goonda backs off. The Godfather waves Hasari and Max close. Hasari brings his gleaming rickshaw to the window of the car, Max at his shoulder. HASARI May I say first, Babu, I wish you long life and good health. GHATAK Acha! They take me now to the scientists. They stick needles in me, take pictures of my insides, study them, and then tell me what I know. 
105.		CONTINUED: The Godfather stares at Hasari, flicks his eyes at Max. Waits. HASARI When you gave me work, I swore I would be as your youngest brother. Your son thinks I have been disloyal. He took my rickshaw. With my friend, I have remade this one. I beg you to let me go again onto the streets. I have my family. The old man looks at the rickshaw, at the obvious care that went into its renovation, at this unlikely team of refurbishers. He reaches a shaking  hand out toward a shaft. Hasari brings it close. The   old man rubs the shaft. GHATAK It is very beautiful. HASARI Thank you, Babu. GHATAK If I may say, it has an allure. HASARI An allure, Babu -- thank you. The Godfather stares at Hasari, then at Max. GHATAK The world is chaos. We struggle to build something permanent, then our bodies betray us, our sons betray us.  Yes, you may take your rickshaw out. If you can face up to my son. The Goonda gets back into the car and the car pulls away and we are left with Hasari and Max as moment.
106.		CONTINUED: HASARI If a man dies and he's not burned, what do you think becomes of his soul? The manager turns his palms up, continues chewing. Hasari stares through the window at the row of skeletons. HASARI I must provide for my family. GANGOOLY Oh, it's a noble fate. If indeed your wheel ceases to turn, you will help educate somewhere in this great world a fine doctor. Hasari bends to the contract and laboriously signs his name.
107.		CONTINUED: RAMATULLAH We haven't been breaking our backs between the shafts of our rickshaws in order to weep for you! Hasari continues forward, his eyes on Ashoka. CHOMOTKAR The only thing that matters is the bundle of rupees we take to the munshi each month to feed and to answer the daily needs of our children!
on hasari		Something detonates in him and he jumps onto the tela- garhi and grabs the microphone from Ashoka. Police arrive in vans. HASARI Friends! The Godfather at least is a caring man! This one, though, the son -- A signal from Ashoka and one of the thugs knocks Hasari down.  This man will be permitted to use his rickshaw without let or hindrance. And I will make a restraining order against Mr. Ghatak. Cheers from the pullers.   The Judge bangs his gavel. JUDGE I haven't finished these proceedings. For his part in this disturbance, I fine the defendant 50 rupees. HASARI Fifty rupees, Your Honor? That's -- JUDGE Pay at this time or spend seven days in jail! Seven days in jail will cost him far more than fifty rupees. As he reaches into his pocket for his screw of money, a hand suddenly protrudes into the cage through the bars. RAMATULLAH Hasari! And now another hand with several rupees reaches through. RASSOUL Hasari! Now a dozen voices call his name and a  dozen hands reach through the bars with rupees clutched  in their fists and press the money into Hasari's hands.   The Judge, Max and Aloka, and certainly Ashoka watch this  in amazement. The Judge bangs his gavel. Max turns, shoots a little finger gun and winks at Ashoka.  CLOSE ON ASHOKA ON his face, we see pure hatred for these two men.  110. EXT. CITY OF JOY - DAY Amrita, Manooj, and Shambu. With them, Subash flirting with Amrita, incurring the wrath and admiration of her brothers, causing her to flush. THUNDER sounds. They all look up. Rain starts to fall. People run outside of workshops and huts, crying, "The rains, the rains." Suddenly, a THUNDERCLAP shakes the earth and rain begins to bombard them. The rain falls, the WIND HOWLS, and people in the lane are dancing, praising the beginning of the monsoon season. Men tear off their shirts, women rush out fully clothed, singing. Swarms of naked children run about. The kids run toward the clinic/school.
111.		CONTINUED: MANOOJ Yes, she does. His name is Subash Ghosh. His father owns the workshop. HASARI Is there someone you care about? The look in Amrita's eyes tells us indeed there is. Hasari smiles at Amrita and then at Aloka. HASARI Then I must speak to his father and I must complete your dowry. Amrita squeezes close to her mother.   This is serious and joyous. HASARI You will make people sigh at how beautiful you are. And I shall drop tears of joy. RAM At my wedding I became so frightened, my father gave me things to drink to calm me down. I went out to piss and fell asleep under the village tree. When I woke I thought it was the tree I'd married. I still love that tree. The laugh. But Hasari's attention is on his daughter. He reaches a loving hand to her.
on max		He sleeps. Suddenly he's grabbed, his eyes spring open in fear. Hands yanks him out of bed, slam him up against the wall, then hurtle him across the room and into:
bathroom		Where the tub has been filled. His head is slammed down underwater and he's held there struggling. 
112.		CONTINUED: His head is yanked up and through bleary eyes he sees a knife at his throat and the Hewbrew letter chai dangling from the knife - wielder's neck, illuminated by a flashlight. ASHOKA Go home, Doctor. Before he can respond, he's slammed down into the tub of water again and held there until it seems his lungs will explode. Then he's dumped backward, gasping for breath.
clinic		He pounds through the puddles, past a sleepy old watchman, and through the gate.
113.		CONTINUED: HASARI The monsoon is the great Durga's gift to the human horse! Hasari glances at Ram, who isn't a part of the joking. HASARI What's the matter? RAM I'm wet and I'm cold. Your daughter is getting married. Time is passing. I want to go home to my wife.
114.		EXT. WEDDING SHOP - DAY Water  pours down. FROM HERE we see Hasari inside, putting money  down in front of the shop owner and then hustling back  into the rain and taking up his shafts. We WATCH the owner  look after him with a touch of disdain as he comes into  the window and takes down the beautiful green and gold  sari.
115.		CONTINUED: D)   An upper-crust Brahmin dressed in crisp white, an umbrella protecting him against the harsh elements. E)   Four uniformed school children huddled, laughing together under the rickshaw's canopy.
low angle		The first   impulse of each is to touch the other's head. But almost   simultaneously, their hands freeze short of touching.    Several months ago, Max might have tried to kiss her;   now, though, there is friendship and affection. FROM here,   we see a pair of bare feet. We COME WITH Max and Aloka   UP.
116.		ANOTHER ANGLE Shoba, a deeply concerned look on his face. Slowly his hands come forward, holding his parrot, with a broken wing. He puts the parrot on the examining table.
118.		CONTINUED: MAX  My dear friends, it's just occurred to me what inspired me to stay here. Thinking he's about to make some cogent remark about this unified effort... MARGARETA What's that, Doctor Big Brother? MAX The opportunity to acquire waterfront property at a reasonable price. Joan begins to laugh; the others don't get it, query each other as to what's funny about that. JOAN I hate to admit it, junior, but that was actually quite witty. She whacks him on the shoulder with a wet, muddy paw. JOAN Ut-nobody laugh; it's a natural disaster -- we have guests. Everyone turns to...
119.		CONTINUED: She indicates the car, which is packed with dry food and such. MAX Shall we unload the car? RAVI Yes, yes, by all means. Max whistles, indicates the car. People come and start unloading it, Ravi showing the way, leaving Max and Manubai alone a moment, Aloka flicking her eyes at the two of them. MANUBAI I'm surprised. I really didn't think you'd stick it out. MAX People grow older; sometimes they even grow up. He smiles a sweet smile at her.    She smiles back at him.
120.		CONTINUED: A beat. EXT. LEPER COLONY - PAIR MUDDY, PARTIAL HANDS - SAME DAY - SOME MINUTES LATER A leper clings to a rope as several of the human horses pull him and others up the mud bank.
another angle		Max, Hasari, Rassoul, and Chomotkar up to their necks in water; Hasari and Rassoul have a door on their shoulders; on top of the door, a sick leper woman. Max is lifting one child, then another onto the door. The two pullers make their way slowly toward the mud bank.
121.		CONTINUED: Several rickshaws go across but as Max and Anouar start over, suddenly the ground gives way beneath Max's feet. Anouar falls free; someone grabs him; but a blackish stream rushes into Max's mouth and in an instant he's swept beneath the gurgling filth. The density of the filth makes his effort to surface ineffective. It looks for all the world like he's going to drown.
on others		Max has disappeared. Instinctively, Hasari dives into the maelstrom. He, too, disappears. After some moments, Hasari surfaces, spitting the filth out of his mouth. He dives again, comes up somewhere else. Dives a third time. Is down. Is down. Is down. Then suddenly bursts out of the filth, dragging the unconscious form of Max Loeb into the air. More people have gathered. Cries of: OTHERS It's the doctor. Save Doctor Big Brother! Aloka passes a baby to someone and helps Hasari push Max up onto the bank. But now Hasari doesn't know what to do and turns to his wife. Aloka quickly clears Max's mouth and begins to admin- ister mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. She blows, she breathes; she blows, she breathes. People crowd in. Aloka blows, she breathes. It seems, though, that by his stillness and by the looks on people's faces that Max is dead. Yet, more determined still, Aloka goes on; blows, breathes...
122.		INT. CLINIC - MAX'S ROOM - NIGHT Max opens his eyes to find Joan, Hasari, Aloka, and the children keeping a vigil. MAX Oh, Jesus, the guy went to sleep when he was supposed to be working? I gotta get up -- He tries to get up.   Joan pushes him back down. JOAN Sshh, sshh, sshh! No heroics, junior. Lay back. You're all right.
max		All right.  I love you guys.
123.		INT. PALS' ROOM - DAY Hasari, Max , the local Hara Giri, Mr. Ghosh and the four Ghosh uncles crammed into the tiny room. Members of our group jam the doorway, spectating. The air is close. HASARI I can offer no more    than I've offered! No more!      All right, I'll add two dhotis,    two vests, and a punjabi. But     that's all. Mr. Ghosh lights up a bidi, looks at his brothers, wrinkles his brows at Hasari. MR. GHOSH That's all?     Did he say that's all? HASARI My daughter's qualities will make up for what is lacking. SUBASH'S FATHER Well, it won't do! I am firm in requiring for my exceptional son the bicycle, 1000 repees... and one ounce of gold. HASARI That's robbery! The child of a rajah might be worth that, and I'm not even sure of that! Impossible! We linger on Shambu a moment.
another angle		Manooj, seated between Hasari and Max. SISTER CECILIA Well, indeed    I think Sister Joan is right --    we've got a prospect here. We'll     start you off with a few classes;    if that works out, we'll make a    proper student of you. 
124.		CONTINUED: Hasari can't believe his ears.   Manooj sits frozen.   Max grins.
125.		CONTINUED: MAX Why? ASHOKA My father was weak. He let you and your European friend give these little people ideas. It's over. MAX You can't do this! He takes no more than a step at Ashoka, a hand coming up, when he's hit hard from behind. Goes to his knees.
max		Jesus Christ. His hand comes away from the back of his head with blood. He tries to rise and is hit again. HASARI 
126.		CONTINUED: There's a moment of unbearable tension as everyone, in- cluding the Goonda, realizes this man is out of control. ASHOKA  He said 'please' didn't he? 'Please, don't touch her?' The Goonda stares at Ashoka... And now Ashoka reaches out and we FOLLOW CLOSE on his hand as it moves ever so slowly through space to settle on Amrita's breast. And now Hasari explodes. He hits Ashoka. A hard punch to the chest. Ashoka stumbles and falls to one knee.
127.		CONTINUED: Shutters start to open, people begin   to appear again in doorways and windows. Fearing for his life, Ashoka suddenly   bolts. Max is fixed on Hasari. He lets up a    scream of exulta- tion, his hand going out for a "five"   from Hasari. The kids charge toward Hasari. Then everyone freezes. Hasari lists to his right side and blood starts to pour from the knife wound in his abdomen under his pressing arm.
the room		Beneath "The Raft of the Medusa," Hasari Pal speaks to his family and Max, Aloka sitting close to the bed, the Children on the bed beside their father, and Max standing close. 
128.		CONTINUED: HASARI A man's journey to the end of his obligations is a very long road. And you have to remember that you can never give up. We pray that life will bless us, that we will be kings, with possessions and money that we can rule over all around us. But it's a mist; the only thing that makes it possible to endure life is our love, one for the other. A beat, the family and Max tightly bound together.   And now we hear the dim sounds of RICKSHAW BELLS.
hasari		I was dreaming the sound of rickshaw bells, and now I hear them. Max opens the windows.   Manooj helps his father sit up.
hasari		A city so big. When we arrived, we didn't have a place to live, a friend. He smiles.
outside		The many hands with their ringing bells.
129.		CONTINUED: SHAMBU  Is my father going to die? Max makes the same sound he made in the ashram at the beginning of the movie, though this sound of dismissal different. MAX Get serious.
hasari		Get serious! I've agreed to the bicycle, I've agreed to the 1000 rupees! I can go no further. I have nothing more to give!
130.		CONTINUED: RAM But it means I should go home to my wife. MAX I thought that's why we've been writing all these letters. RAM Yes, of course, I love her from here, yes; but, what if I go home and find I don't love her from there. Shambu takes him by the hand and tugs him quickly to the edge of the tea shop. The little boy indicates Max should bend close. Max leans down. SHAMBU Daddy needs gold, right? Max nods.    And Shambu brings his fist up from under the table.
another angle		Amrita is dressed in the beautiful sari her father bought her. Father and daughter are alone. He hands her the flower and adjusts her veil tenderly. 
131.		CONTINUED: HASARI You never did belong to me. You were only lent to me by God until you marry and continue the wheel of life. Amrita stares at her loving father and slowly her arms come up around his neck, the flower against his curved back. Tears fill Hasari's eyes, but a smile graces his lips.
the ceremony		A flame. The    shyness of bride and groom as the ceremony proceeds with   the winding of the red thread. Hasari looks on with   unspeakable pride, Max beside him. We see the faces of   all our family again: Aloka, Manooj and Shambu, Joan,   Poomina, Surya, Selima, Aristotle John, etc.
132.		THE WHEEL Turning. As Amrita and Subash, joined by the thread, circle the flame... as we PULL BACK AND UP. Now we see the clinic and school and the surrounding area, the alleys full of people and activity. As we continue to PULL BACK, we see the entirety of the City of Joy and then beyond -- Calcutta, its teeming streets -- life con- tinuing as the sun sets against an infinite sky and we ROLL END CREDITS. FADE OUT.
****Dialogues from script :Clash_of_the_Titans.txt****

king acrisius		Now we end the debate about tactics... and begin to plan for victory.
night		The Dog approaches a doorway; stops to watch from the shadows.  INT. THE PALACE OF ACRISIUS - BEDCHAMBER - DOG'S POV -
night		In the dim bedchamber, the SILHOUETTE of QUEEN DANAE as a LADY-IN-WAITING removes her gown, revealing the Queen's perfect body as she slips into bed. The Lady-in-Waiting leaves. The Dog's eyes. He moves forward.
queen danae		My King! Has the strategy been set so quickly?
reverse angle		The looming figure looks exactly like King Acrisius, including the distinctive scar. He regards her hungrily.
queen danae		Come to your Queen, my King.
another angle		Queen Danae, PREGNANT NOW, and weeping. Her arms are bound. A ROYAL ENTOURAGE is gathered. The women weep, the men agonize. Palace Guards lift the Queen into a chest and chain it closed. On the King's signal, the Guards carry the chest to the edge and drop it into the rough sea. We HEAR a SCREAM from within. Some members of the Royal Entourage look with scorn at their King, outraged by this double murder. Acrisius registers their disapproving looks and angrily turns to leave the promontory. WE SEE in his face what the others do not -- shame and doubt. IN THE WATER BELOW, the chest rights itself and rides out on the tide.
king acrisius		He cuckolds me in my castle, rapes my precious Queen! This is a low, conniving God... But I have bested him on this day and humbled the great Prime.
king acrisius		Tell me what the Priests say!
steward		 Tiamat... Tiamat, Queen of the Deep.
king acrisius		Yes, Tiamat! And today I have honored her. The King whirls and staggers up the crest of the dune.
king acrisius		I've taken Zeus' whore and the bastard she grows in her belly and thrown them to Tiamat in her rough sea! (toward the moonlit
king acrisius		so that Zeus will know I despise and disdain him and spit on his foul name! The Steward shrinks from this blasphemy, eyes darting in fear. ON THE CREST the King is silhouetted in the moonlight, arms raised defiantly toward the heavens, when suddenly -- -- his figure is seized by some violent force, shaking his being. A HORRIBLE SOUND                                   and THE KING'S BODY GROWS LARGER AS IT DISTORTS IN
old man		Thoth the Quick... (sensing the boy's
thoth		My lord.
zeus		(rumbles, like
tiamat		We don't negotiate with them! We dictate to them. Their place is to beg. They have forgotten their role and have denied us the sustenance of their prayers.
aphrodite		Our mercy will give them reason to be grateful. They will bow down and whisper our names with more passion than before.
tiamat		They will bow down when we snap their backs! Mercy? We are Gods! Some of us remember that and are not afraid -- Zeus has had enough: furious ARCS OF LIGHTNING jump to the walls, the eagle beats its wings in rage.
zeus		Silence! Or learn what it is to be afraid! The debate is over, the votes cast... Zeus points to a golden tray; it bears TEN chips of alabaster versus TWO shards of obsidian.
zeus		We guarantee an armistice, we shield the bridegroom and the Joppan royal family. (turning again on
set		And if they refuse our terms?
zeus		They have suffered terrible losses. They will not pass up a chance for peace.
tiamat		Soon enough, Set. Zeus has grown weaker than I knew. Set gestures at the white chips on the tray as he picks up the two black shards representing their votes. He hands one to Tiamat.
set		So have they all. They no longer see clearly.
tiamat		We will manage these thick-witted Humans to our own ends.  Yes, we will be bound by great Zeus' rules... until their fragile membranes tear. We dare not interfere with these insects...
the long war with the gods has wounded this city, but		life goes stubbornly on. Among the war-torn buildings is a bustling market. CITIZENS eye the wares. MERCHANTS, PERFORMERS, noise, and MUSIC.
superimpose: joppa, capital of the dominion of illyria		Suddenly the market falls SILENT. Fear grips the crowd. An occurrence rare in the world of Men -- AN OLYMPIAN
king kepheus, the aging, worried ruler, sits on his		throne, then stands, paces, sits again. Expecting someone. Flitting nearby is his Queen -- CASSIOPEIA, a fading beauty, fiercely intelligent, but not wise; she can be impulsive and vain. AMOUN stands calmly by -- he is special advisor             to the King and will be central to our story.
amoun		None like this.
kepheus		I'm not cowed. If these arrogant Gods are so powerful, why are they the ones seeking a truce?
kepheus		In my palace, I decide how the discourse proceeds, not some messenger sent on errands by Zeus.
thoth		... as do all Gods... and all men. Thoth removes his hood, revealing his crystal skull.
thoth		 King Kepheus, as humble messenger of Zeus, I've come to talk of peace.
kepheus		I am a reasonable man. Everyone wishes for the conflict to cease.
thoth		Zeus above all. He has so long desired the tragedy end, he made a plan that began twenty-five years ago.
cassiopeia		Twenty-five years! How is that possible? Amoun winces at her tone. Thoth sends a scary glance her way. Icy --
thoth		Beauteous Queen, let Thoth limn for you the forethought and wisdom of Zeus, God of Gods.
kepheus		A treaty marriage?
thoth		You have a daughter of age.
kepheus		Surely Zeus does not ask a mortal father to give his daughter to a God.
thoth		No. Such a union would be unclean. Years ago Zeus created a scion of mixed blood. Half-man, half-God. Bred for just this union. That is how important Zeus considers this truce.
thoth		A prince, of both Olympian and Human royalty. A chosen one.
kepheus		I have heard of no such demigod.
amoun		Majesty, if I may -- the young man does exist. He lives in a small fishing village on the isle of Seriphos. Kepheus turns, surprised at Amoun's foreknowledge.
kepheus		You knew about this and said nothing?
amoun		My Queen, I serve only the great order of things. I was the boy's tutor years ago.
kepheus		How haughty this boy must be, who knows he is half-God.
amoun		He knows nothing and believes himself an ordinary man. He has never left his village. He can be overconfident, but it is from inexperience, not arrogance. Repheus and Cassiopeia exchange wary looks. Sharply
cassiopeia		What assurance do we have that our daughter will be safe?
kepheus		With our daughter's future at stake, we do not bestow trust easily.
amoun		(urgently, to the
kepheus		Where is the lucky young suitor?
spyros		Your grieving does Anteros no good. It comforts only you.
perseus		It's my fault he's gone.
spyros		He was careless with the net. Perseus gives him a hard look.
perseus		So it's his fault. Not mine, not fate, not the Gods?
perseus		 Now my history is I let my friend die in my arms. I made it back, why couldn't he?
spyros		What you do, no other man can do. Have you not noticed?
perseus		To what purpose? I failed him.
perseus		You always say that my abilities are greater than other men's. But they were not enough to save him.
spyros		You are still a man, confined by man's limits. You are just as likely to fail as succeed.
perseus		How is that greater than other men?
spyros		Ordinary men fail most of the time. The trawler rounds a point on the island. Perseus spies a beautiful girl on the cliff. A closer
tekla		Mother wants you to come in for supper. (as he is
tekla		I still don't understand.
spyros		Your mother can explain. She believes everything has an explanation, even if we have to make it up.
tekla		Tell me! Why is there war between Man and the Gods? Marmara and Tekla continue to bring out the food.
marmara		At the beginning of time, when Man was young, he prayed to the Gods. His belief in the Gods gave his life meaning. It was a good thing.
spyros		If you consider superstition, fear and darkness good things...
tekla		What things?
spyros		Learning, science... love.
marmara		But what of the Gods, who had protected and guided us so long? They must breathe our prayers to survive. They hunger for
spyros		-- as lions hunger for blood.
marmara		Spyros!
spyros		The Gods were desperate to claim our awe again.
tekla		Desperate... the Gods?
spyros		Yes, even the Gods. If they could not earn our faith with love, they would demand it with fear. Whatever was necessary to ensure              L their continued existence.
marmara		And that is how war broke out between Man and Gods. (turning to serve
perseus		You... I saw you watching our boat at the cliff.
wilting girl		It was not the boat I was watching.
perseus		Can I be of service?
wilting girl		Yes, of service. I need you to come with me on a journey. Perseus gives her a look.
perseus		Right now?  It wouldn't take much persuading to get me to leave this village, but tonight is impossible. My family can't wake and find me gone. Where do you want me to go?
wilting girl		It's not what I want. I am in the service of others.
perseus		Come back in the morning and we can talk about it.
wilting girl		I'm sorry.
perseus		For what? Perseus doesn't notice the black widow spider scurry between her feet. Then a centipede, a scorpion. Then a swarm, racing toward him. He feels the first spider and looks down. The creatures climb his legs, biting. Weakening from the venom, he stumbles back into the table, loses his balance and falls.
closer		We SEE that she is also watching Perseus, who is sleeping in a makeshift bed in the bottom of the boat. Her eyes slowly travel over his bronzed, muscled frame. There are bite marks on his legs and arms, but they seem to be healing as we look at them. Perseus stirs and wakes, squinting up at the Wilting Girl.
perseus		How long have I been out?
wilting girl		This time? Only a few hours. The time before, almost a day. How was your rest?
perseus		I had a dream. I fell into a dark pit. I thought I would never stop falling. But a beam of light formed a soft net, caught me and tossed me back. TheWilting Girl watches him.
perseus		When I came back up to the world, a beautiful woman appeared and spoke to me. But as she spoke she would sometimes disappear into the whiteness with a strange sound.
perseus' pov		The Wilting Girl listens to his story.
perseus		When I could hear her, she spoke nonsense. She said that my father was a God and my mother a -- At that moment the blinding-white sail swings between them as she tacks, obscuring his view of her for a moment. The wind makes a LOUD SNAPPING SOUND in the cloth. Then she reappears, the sail on her other side.
perseus' face		as he realizes she is his vision.
wilting girl		You are special, Perseus. Your birth was ordained for this very purpose.
perseus		I am an ordinary man.
wilting girl		Do you ever lie awake during a storm and listen to the thunder?
wilting girl		How long can you hold your breath? Longer than the others? Are there times when you know you should feel pain, but you don't?
perseus		None of that means anything.
wilting girl		Look at your arms, Perseus. Perseus watches the bites on his arm heal visibly.
perseus		A good trick. You must be the demigod, not me.
perseus		A Chthonian?
wilting girl		An Earth Goddess.
perseus		And when none worship you? Sadness flickers through her extraordinary eyes.
perseus		And demigods, where do they stand in your hierarchy?
wilting girl		Nowhere. Sorry.
perseus		If demigods rank so low, why do you need me?
wilting girl		For a marriage.
perseus		What!
wilting girl		Zeus, God of Gods, has proposed a treaty to end the war. At the center is the marriage of a mortal with a demigod.
perseus		Who, me?
wilting girl		Zeus himself has chosen you. A demigod may be less than a God, but he's more than a Man. One foot in Humanity, the other in Divinity. Your marriage will be a symbol of accord between our races.
perseus		Forget it.
wilting girl		Such a union could save millions of souls. Perseus is struck by that. He looks off across the sea.
perseus		And just who exactly am I supposed to marry?
andromeda		Do you think you can manhandle a Princess this way?  As though she was hungry and needy as you, a mere servant? Another steamy kiss. In between liplocks, she whispers
andromeda		very mistaken... a woman of my station... never be attracted... They go at it again.
peshet		Princess... Princess!
peshet		The Queen approaches!
peshet		Andromeda! You'll care enough if you're caught! Remember last time... From inside we HEAR complaining, more kissing and moaning.
cassiopeia		Where is the Princess?
peshet		Is she not in her chambers, ma'am?
cassiopeia		She is not. You are expected to know her -- A SQUEAL and WHISPERING from the closet stops Cassiopeia. She throws a perturbed glance at the door. Peshet looks guilty.
peshet		Princess, it's the King as well!
andromeda		To please you, I would submit to such a marriage... except I would rather die; Please let me know you're serious about this perverse plan so I can make arrangements to kill myself.
kepheus		It will take more than half-a-God to handle her.
cassiopeia		She'll be a great ruler one day.
wilting girl		You're looking in the wrong direction.
perseus		I don't think so.
wilting girl		Perhaps you should give some thought to your immediate future.
perseus		 That's what I'm doing.
wilting girl		Maybe you should take another look... She indicates the view behind him. Perseus turns, jaw dropping.
his pov		A breathtaking view of Joppa -- a city in two parts. At sea level, tangled hovels, boats, and docks crowd the working-class area -- the LOWER WHARF. Above, twisting stone stairs climb the cliffs to the ACROPOLIS with its gleaming villas, temples, statues, and colonnaded towers, hugging the precipice.
wilting girl		All the goods, armies, and culture of Man's dominion flow through this port. He who reigns in Joppa, rules the world. Amidst the exotic chaos, Perseus is struck by   the homeless refugees on the street and the ruins   of once- proud buildings.
perseus		What are they celebrating?
wilting girl		You.
kepheus		. before I am a king or a peacemaker, I am a father. Do you know what that means?
perseus		I'm not sure, Your Highness. I did not know my father.
perseus		She's not the only one, sir. I don't know much about the events for which I've been drafted.
kepheus		(disarmed, but tough
kepheus		Is this amusing to you?
perseus		Not even a little, my lord. It's just that I myself was waylaid -- snatched also, as you say, from my happy springtime... Kepheus studies him to see if he's making jest of him.
perseus		I've been told I'm to play a part in events which serve a higher purpose... of which I'm not at all convinced.
kepheus		Does a truce in the war between Men and Gods not strike you as a higher purpose?
perseus		With all respect, I have never seen a God. On my island, they're no more than a story.
kepheus		You will learn there is more to this universe than is found on your island.  
perseus		I can only proceed based on what I have experienced, not on a faith I do not possess.
kepheus		Where does a young person get such ideas?
perseus		Perhaps from my adopted father, sir. I admire him greatly, and he believes in little he cannot hold in his hand.
perseus		Master Amoun! He hurries over to the older man, who embraces him warmly.
amoun		Porpoise... You've grown tall and strong since my departure. Perseus laughs at his old nickname and holds Amoun at arm's length.
perseus		What are you doing here?
amoun		I am honored to serve the King as an advisor. His Magi Strategos.
perseus		From my village tutor to Magi Strategos... What a path! The King's patience is exhausted. To Cassiopeia
kepheus		Where is Andromeda? At the least, the two should meet before tomorrow's ceremony...
cassiopeia		The wedding comes later. Tomorrow we will have the public announcement.
amoun		And a celebration of the treaty. A Page enters and whispers in Kepheus' ear. Kepheus is irritated.
kepheus		It seems our Andromeda has wandered away. Cassiopeia reacts, upset.
amoun		Perhaps the thought of her new life has made her frantic to enjoy the vestiges of her old one.
kepheus		Perseus, if you're to take the wild girl for a wife, this is a good time to start your training. Go into the city and retrieve her.
perseus		How will I know her?
cassiopeia		She is unmistakable.
perseus		I'm a stranger here. Any hints?
amoun		Follow the lights and the sound of profane music.
wilting girl		Zeus? Zeus' rumbling voice is held low, talking to her in an intimate way -- a beautiful sound.
wilting girl		My part is finished.
wilting girl		As I've lost my believers, the future has become dimmer to me.
wilting girl		It's too painful. I can't involve myself.
andromeda		Will you please give me some
andromeda		What did you say?
perseus		I said, 'Very beautiful.'
andromeda		Do you always start a seduction with an insult? Perseus moves to the rail, very close to her, and looks at the sea.
perseus		I know nothing of seduction. I'm a simple fisherman. My home is across that water.
andromeda		What brings you here?
perseus		To Joppa? I was kidnapped.
andromeda		I mean here, tonight. He looks over at her a long moment.
perseus		I've come to see my future wife. Startled, Andromeda suddenly realizes who he is. A mad mix of emotions crosses her face.
andromeda		It's not personal. You're not a bad-looking boy.  I'm too young. I don't want to be married.
perseus		Me either.
andromeda		Then why are you doing it?
perseus		No one asked me. And now that I've met you, I don't know if I can go through with it.  It's not personal. Seeing you makes it real. I think a man should make his own decisions. I won't be the pawn of a King or a God. She looks at him with new interest.
andromeda		Since we agree, it's settled. No marriage.
perseus		I don't think it's going to be that simple. Ignoring that, she takes his arm, moving even closer.
andromeda		That doesn't mean we can't be friends. Get to know each other. I want to show you something. She leads him into a tall, hedged garden maze.
perseus		I'm already lost.
andromeda		I'll take care of you. They take two more jogs and find themselves in an odd sylvan chamber. Soft plants have been stacked in what could be mistaken for a bed.
andromeda		This is my special place. No one can see or hear or even find us now.
perseus		(looks around the
andromeda		Do you want to? When he turns back to her, she melts into his arms and gives him a long deep kiss. He's surprised, but handles it well. When she tries to continue, he slows things down, holding her at bay.
andromeda		Do you not find me attractive?
perseus		One of the most beautiful women I've ever seen.
andromeda		Of course, you haven't been much in the world.
perseus		True. Maybe a lot of girls look like you.
andromeda		Don't you want to make love to your almost-wife? Maybe we'll find we're not compatible.
perseus		What if we find we're very compat-- She stops him with another kiss. He starts to surrender to his desire, but again, he stops. Her voice is a low
andromeda		Is it true you're a demigod?
perseus		 It seems what everyone wants to believe. Her face is inches from his. She looks into his eyes.
andromeda		I don't see it.  But let's find out for sure... She kisses him yet again, pulling him toward the bed of foliage. He can no longer resist. Together they fall into the softness. He kisses her passionately as their bodies begin to move together. She breaks the kiss for only a moment, her voice husky --
andromeda		I think I'm becoming a believer... They start to make love.
andromeda		You're late.
perseus		I didn't know how to get this outfit on.
andromeda		I want to thank you for seeing me home. I was so flushed with wine I can't recall much of the evening. Perseus half smiles and turns to the crowd.
perseus		Me either.
andromeda		At what point do you plan to tell them we're not getting married?
perseus		Tell who?
andromeda		 Them...
cassiopeia		I won't be long-winded. You all know I am a modest person, no matter my rank. Some of the crowd react silently. Andromeda watches her mother with trepidation, but not as much as Kepheus, watching from his throne.
cassiopeia		This union represents new hope for a lasting peace! That is the only cause for celebration. The crowd reacts with exclamations and applause. Amoun wills her to stop. Cassiopeia takes another drink, looks over at the Princess.
cassiopeia		To my beautiful daughter... more beautiful than all the women of Joppa. More beautiful than the Gardens of Nineveh... Kepheus is about to pull her away. She throws him a spiteful glance.
cassiopeia		More beautiful than the turquoise ocean and its sublime Goddess of the Deep... Tiamat herself! My daughter is a beauty even a Goddess must envy. Amoun reacts in dismay. A distressed MURMUR roils the crowd. Andromeda goes to her mother.
cassiopeia		I've gone on too long -- She stops with a look of sudden dread. The Great Hall DARKENS. The torch flames TURN BLACK. The temperature drops. The statues lining the hall shut their eyes and the doors burst open. TIAMAT, QUEEN OF THE DEEP, floats forward, parting the terrified celebrants. Perseus sees his first Olympian. Tiamat arrives at the dais. Cassiopeia drops to her knees.
tiamat		You have blasphemed powers beyond understanding... You, a stupid braying goat before the unfathomable galaxies. You dare put this frivolous, scrawny slut...
tiamat		Look upon the sublime and know your error. You'll not blink. Tell me now, mortal, how bright your preening urchin shines? No one dare look long at the Goddess. No one but Perseus. Tiamat notices Perseus... and his boldness.
tiamat		People of Joppa, hear me. For the sacrilege of this arrogant creature, I will loose Leviathan upon you. The people react in terror. Cassiopeia starts to faint, but Tiamat snaps her back to consciousness                  --
tiamat		I'm not finished. Hold your gaze.  Unless... Instant silence.
tiamat		unless you sacrifice that body so impertinently compared to this
tiamat		This is my will, Joppa. Desolation or sacrifice. Choose your penance. You can thank your...  . sickly, aged Queen. Clouds of black sea ink swirl and swallow Tiamat, then implode. Tiamat is gone. Cassiopeia, palsied and withered, collapses. Kepheus and Royal Aides rush to her.
kepheus		Leviathan awakes...
her pov		A council of VICEROYS and MINISTERS gathered before Kepheus, who seems lost in thought, head down. Perseus stands off to the side.
amoun		. All monsters of the sea are but shadows of Leviathan the Kraken -- colossal, rapacious, and nigh indestructible. The men turn to Kepheus; when he raises his face, he looks exhausted.
kepheus		My Queen lies near death. Am I now to choose between the survival of our state... and the life of Andromeda, my only child? Amoun watches Perseus, at the fringe of the group, expectantly. But Perseus looks only perplexed, an observer.
repheus		Impossible.
amoun		You're 'listening'? We're talking about the precious life of your betrothed. Perseus meets his gaze, confused.
amoun		Exactly! A newcomer with a fresh perspective. Share your thoughts with the King, your future father- in-law. The ministers are puzzled by Amoun's persistence. Perseus, uncertainly --
perseus		I know that I am young and have not seen much of the world, but it seems to me that nothing is indestructible. The Ministers react to the young man's arrogance.
perseus		Father, how did you find me?
kepheus		I thought this boy's father was a God. How does a stranger walk unmolested into the Throne Room of the King?
amoun		I sent for him, Lord. This good man raised Perseus from infancy. He will help him now.
kepheus		Help him with what?
spyros		With whatever is needed... Perseus approaches the King. Surprising himself --
perseus		He will help me destroy Leviathan. Spyros does a double-take, then swallows: "Yeah, okay, sure."
kepheus		But how? Perseus has no idea.
amoun		Majesty, we can seek the counsel of the Norn Sisters of Skolothia. They know the hidden ways of the Gods. If Leviathan can be slain, they'll know how to do it.
perseus		We have thirty days to find its weakness.
perseus		 We'll leave tonight.
kepheus		With what army? I dare not weaken our forces when the city is about to be besieged.
perseus		(uncertain, glances
amoun		My King, with your permission... The King assents, seemingly lost. Amoun speaks to Perseus.
amoun		I'll give you a map and much more. I'll go with you and bring a small band of comrades to help you on your mission. We can leave at first light.  Diokles, the map. The men move to the work area, where the Aide selects a map from dozens. Something catches Perseus' eye.
perseus' pov		Andromeda, up in the balcony, has made herself visible only to him. She silently mouths these words -- "Thank... you."
amoun		We head north on the Via Dahlia. If we can make it to the Disputed Territories... MOVE IN ON the tip of Amoun's pointer on the
perseus		Amoun, it seems an odd coincidence you came into my life as tutor, so long ago, and now, once again you instruct me.
spyros		Who would have thought we'd be on a journey like this? Two simple fishermen.
perseus		I'm afraid I've dragged you into real danger, Father, when I have little idea of what I'm doing.
spyros		Living at the mercy of the sea so long has convinced me some adventures are unexpected and some dangers unavoidable. It's all in your attitude.
perseus		What's our attitude about destroying Leviathan?
spyros		The Kraken is just another big fish. Perseus smiles, but is not as sanguine.
tiamat		Yes. I beseech you, track the expedition.
set		To plainly thwart them would betray our intentions and draw the wrath of Zeus and the others.
tiamat		That, we cannot have. I merely suggest that the road to Skolothia is hazardous.
set		I take your meaning. And your loyal brute, he is fixed upon the hunt?
peshet		You must sleep.  Princessat You must take care of yourself. A CRACK OF THUNDER. Andromeda looks over at her, thinking.
andromeda		My father was ready to sacrifice me to the monster.
peshet		I'm sure that is not so.
andromeda		I saw it. I heard the words. My loving father, his beloved child. Only Perseus stayed his decision.
andromeda		The city is besieged, the people suffer.
peshet		Go to sleep, my lady.
andromeda		 Sleep? Sleep will come soon enough for me, faithful one. In one month... at the latest. The palace shakes with the ROLLING THUNDER.
perseus		Joppa is pummelled by the Dark Goddess.
perseus		By what name may mortals call you?
wilting girl		I have no name.
perseus		Who do your worshippers pray to?
wilting girl		I can't remember.
perseus		Perhaps that is why they are falling in number?
perseus		I have to call you something...
perseus		That's a pretty name. Wait, better yet -- 'Vidalia'? How's that... 'Vidalia'? That's more than pretty, beautiful really, just as you are. She is pleased, self-conscious, concentrating on the road ahead.
perseus		You don't like it?  What's that? I missed it --
wilting girl		(just loud enough to
draco		More. The Mongols stare -- either not comprehending or ready to fight.
draco		It must last all night. Get some more.
abas		Commander, I'll get some, too. Perseus and Abas head off into the woods in different directions.
his pov		The leaves offer tantalizing cover to her naked body. She dives in with a quiet SPLASH.
perseus		Now is when an honorable man would turn around and walk away...
perseus		Vidalia...
set		Hear me, my pet. Let my instructions be seared to your primal mind as natural law.
set		You are starving. Your gut says you'll soon perish. No earthly meat will still that hunger. What you need, what you ache for, is the flesh of... a demigod!
draco		Pegassi, stallions of the Gods.
icos		Perseus. How long do you think you could stay on one of those? Icos and Boreas exchange a sly look.
boreas		Don't goad the boy, Icos. No Man can ride a Pegasus.
icos		Did not Bellerophon tame the Great White Pegasus?
boreas		You're right. But he was a demigod...
draco		Stop it, rogues. One of our own has disappeared without a trace and all you can think is to cause mischief. What if Perseus is bucked to his death from a thousand feet up?
draco		Don't do this. If we go back to camp right now, we can avoid trouble and keep our goal in sight. A true leader will not be distracted.
perseus		I'm not the leader, Draco, Amoun is. I'm too young to start avoiding trouble. Perseus jumps up and approaches a roan Pegasus, speaking soothingly. It WHINNIES and threshes its wings, buffeting Perseus with gusts. The Pegasus rears up, and leaps over Perseus' head. It lands behind him, bucks its hind legs, and kicks Perseus face-first into the dirt. Icos and Boreas are laughing, but when Draco gives them a dark look, Boreas jumps up, sobered, and heads into the clearing.
boreas		I'll collect him right now, Commander. Suddenly, Humbaba erupts from the thicket with a HOWL. The Pegassi take flight, but the Humbaba grabs one and swallows it whole. Humbaba turns and SNIFFS the air, homing in on Perseus.
draco		Perseus, get out of there! Icos, fetch the others. Icos bolts. Draco and Boreas leap into the clearing with swords drawn to draw the monster's attention. Perseus does the same.
draco		I told you to run, boy. You'll make things worse.
icos		A Humbaba! Mongke and Tamburlane fly into the woods; the others follow.
draco		Boreas! Draco hacks at the monster's leg, to no avail. it rips off Boreas' head and swallows his body. Perseus CRIES OUT and leaps at the creature, sword swinging.
vidalia		A delusion is planted in its mind. It thinks it's starving and it wants to feed on --
vidalia		I can't reverse the powerful curse. But if the monster's hungry, I can feed it. Vidalia raises her arms and shuts her eyes. A cyclone of CAWING RAVENS descends from the sky and dives straight into the monster's mouth. As the Humbaba tries to shake them away, Mongke is thrown clear.
vidalia		I should cast a spell upon you and leave you forever a stone upon this stream.
perseus		I didn't beckon the Humbaba.
vidalia		You did, with your childish recklessness, and Boreas has paid the price! Perseus, already rife with guilt, is stung by the truth.
perseus		The monster killed my friend. I could not contain my rage. But you, Goddess, are aloof from the emotions of Men. Vidalia's eyes narrow, enraged.
vidalia		Yes, a tyrannical Goddess, who dares question your mad rush to annihilation.
peshet		Where have you brought me?
agenor		Just listen to this good man. He needs your help. Fantasos comes forward. He fixes her with a hypnotic gaze.
fantasos		Do you know who I am, child?
peshet		You are the Priest of the Streets.
fantasos		That's right. You know that the good common people of Joppa trust that I will look after their welfare.
peshet		Some do...
fantasos		Do you love the people of Joppa, Peshet? (as she nods,
peshet		I have always served the royal family.
fantasos		Yes, you have, good Peshet. And now you may be in a better position than anyone to help the Princessa save the city.
perseus		Master Amoun... You knew about me, didn't you? When you came to our village?
amoun		Your birth was written in the stars. I sought you out and took it as my cause to teach you.
perseus		You chose a poor student. I have learned little and my mistakes cost dearly.
perseus		I do not believe my fate is to be half a God. No demigod could feel as confused as I do tonight.
amoun		Concentrate on the task before you. All answers will come with that.
lookout		The Night Patrol returns on the Gorge Road! That message is shouted along from Sentries to Guards in the camp. OUT IN THE DARKNESS on the dusty Gorge Road, a dozen Soldiers gallop in GROUND-SHAKING FORMATION toward the firelit encampment.
tiamat		My loyal friend. it is beneath you to stalk this band of infidels one by one. Events demand more decisive action. Kalibos' SPEECH is as tortured and deformed as his body --
kalibos		Grorashnrd... I to be... ruler... rhodirs... made whole... sovfrenty... kingdom mine...
tiamat		Yes, Kalibos, the time is nigh when I restore you to your rightful form -- proud Acrisius. With me, your protector, on the throne of Olympos... the violator Zeus deposed. Kalibos reacts, with what must be satisfaction.
fantasos		How much are we meant to suffer? Where is your mighty King? Safely cloistered above the flood... on the high ground, with the high- born -- the privileged gentry!... The angry crowd responds, fists shaking. Peshet moves through the throng, desperately looking for Andromeda. She passes close to the rostrum and Fantasos registers her presence.
fantasos		. Does Kepheus worry about you? No! Only the Princessa... And still, the Kraken comes! Does the King build his defenses at the water's edge? "NO!" cries the crowd. Peshet is shocked to find herself replying with them -- "NO1" Fantasos motions for Agenor to continue the harangue, while Fantasos hurries off the stage.
agenor		No! He makes his stand at his daughter's chamber door!... We will show Kepheus we're not sacrificial fodder. We will tremble the walls of his Basilica! RABID SUPPORT from the mob. Peshet stops suddenly, peering ahead.
fantasos		One night soon, a gong will sound three times. When you hear it, unlock the back gate of the Basilica. Then go to Andromeda's chambers...  . and bring the Princess out. My men will take her to Leviathan. Peshet just stares at the dagger, hands trembling.
fantasos		Do you understand me? (harshly, off her non-
amoun		You wanted to know about Djinn Raiders. Here they are.
draco		 Look sharp. Watch your surround.
vidalia		The Alkali Lotus... She stops, spotting something in the distance. Kosmo pulls up.
vidalia		What is that?
their pov		shimmering through the desert heat -- tents and flags.
draco		Where is everyone? Spyros HEARS something and follows the SOUND to a tent, weapon ready.
spyros		Draco, tell me what this -- Everyone is standing perfectly still. DARK FIGURES surround them. The transformed Cleon Legion lurches INTO VIEW. The only resemblance to the soldiers they were is their armor.. Now they're monstrous creatures: LOTOPHAGI.
amoun		Muster to me!
amoun		Come on! You can pass through! Draco bolts for the barrier. A Lotophagi spears Kosmo, killing him. Draco slides inside the swarm. He looks back at Kosmo in horror. Polluc slashes zombies and runs toward the swarm. He's almost there when one of the Lotophagi lands on him, sinking fangs into his skull. Polluc sticks his sword into the creature; they both fall over dead. Icos and Spyros fight their way to the swarm and jump inside. Mongke and Tamburlane kill a Lotus-eater and leap over the corpse into the protected circle. The tide of HOWLING and SHRIEKING Lotophagi claw at the barrier of insects to no avail.
amoun		Only humans can penetrate the shield! Perseus takes quick stock of the group inside the swarm, thinking.
perseus		Only humans... He looks over the Lotophagi and sees Vidalia out there, alone, flinging sling-bullets as she fights her way toward the barrier.
perseus		Drop the barrier!                                          r
amoun		No! It's too late for her!
perseus		Drop it, Amoun! At that moment, Kalibos grabs Vidalia and drags her to the top of an outcrop. At the top, he turns, LOOKS DIRECTLY AT PERSEUS and HOWLS, his message clear: "If you want to save her, come and get her." He hungrily rips her leather bandeau. Perseus turns to Amoun.
perseus		Take the barrier down or I'll go through it!
amoun		Have you learned nothing? If you break out now, we're all at risk. On the boulder, Kalibos grabs Vidalia's white flesh. Perseus is anguished; he knows he's in love.
perseus		Get down! Perseus backs away three steps. To the others               --
perseus		Get ready to defend yourselves! Perseus runs, plants a foot on Thad's back and leaps out through the swarm, which immediately dissipates around the humans. They have only a moment to react as the stunned Lotophagi come to their senses.
draco		Let's kill these freks! Perseus runs over the backs of the Lotophagi. Hurtling off them, he scrambles up and knocks Kalibos off Vidalia. Ralibos rolls, flips onto his feet and gives Perseus a look: "You're the one that I want." They face off, looking for an opening. Perseus lunges, thrusting his sword. Kalibos dodges, springing up the rocks and then down toward Perseus, acrobatic as an ape. Perseus rolls out of the way. Perseus sweeps his sword at Kalibos' head. The monster catches the blade in his jaws and SNAPS IT IN TWO! Bloody spittle flies from his tongue. Kalibos pounces, pins Perseus. He opens his jaw and sinks his teeth into Perseus' shoulder. Vidalia cracks a rock into Kalibos' head. The creature whirls on Vidalia and careens toward her, head bloody. Perseus leaps in the air and catches Kalibos in the back with both feet, knocking him over the edge.
down below		Draco, Spyros, Amoun and the others hack away, fending off the Lotophagi. Outnumbered, they won't last long. The earth VIBRATES. The Lotophagi are distracted, looking around nervously. Over a rise stampede SCORPIOCHS, rhino-sized scorpions. Riding them, DJINN RAIDERS, flowing black silk masking all but their blue eyes. They lay into the Lotophagi. The Scorpiochs skewer the beasts with HUGE PINCERS. The Djinn use flashing SCIMITARS to cut them down.
perseus		Vidalia... we need to help them... He blacks out. Vidalia cranes to look over the edge of the cliff where Kalibos fell. She is mystified by what
vidalia		To save me, you risked everything -- your mission, your friends... the fate of multitudes. Men need better judgment in the one who is meant to lead them... No longer able to lecture, she regards him with love.
vidalia		You shouldn't have risked your life for me. It is a waste to save me when I'll be gone so soon. She strokes his hair and kisses his forehead.
vidalia		Thank you for your reckless disregard. Thank you, Perseus... Vidalia holds her palm above the floor and mutters a quick incantation. A small shoot APPEARS and SPROUTS FAT PODS. Vidalia squeezes the salve from a pod and covers Perseus' wound. The wound bulges, then squirms deeper into Perseus. Perseus shoots up, clutching his chest. Vidalia gently lays him down. Perseus gags. A VIPER WRIGGLES from his throat and slithers away with the fat lump of infection in its stomach.
vidalia		The poison is gone now.
perseus		Where... Where are we? The
vidalia		In the Djinn caravan. They're escorting us to the Skolothian border.
perseus		But I thought the Djinn...
draco		The Skolothians have suffered more than their share in this war. The Legions of the Gods have battered them.
spyros		It's no wonder they shy away from all strangers. Perseus looks ahead, where the Expedition is parting company with the Djinn Raiders. only one of the Djinn is staying -- SHAIKH SULEIMAN, a veiled priest.
amoun		Because of you. You're the reason they saved us.
perseus		Me? I don't understand.
amoun		Why don't you ask him?
perseus		I thought they didn't speak.
amoun		They have no mouths. That doesn't mean they do not speak.
amoun		The Pillar of Moirai. Lair of the Norn Sisters.
perseus		Tell me of them.
amoun		They're witches in the form of Strix. Not a pleasant sight, a Strix. They have powerful magic and dreadful habits. Baby-eaters, among other things.  But they owe me a favor. When the war broke out, they lent their power to men against the Gods in exchange for infant sacrifice. Tiamat struck them blind for their treachery. When they came for help, I fashioned them an artificial eye, for their Second Sight.
perseus		You made only one eye?
amoun		(pleased with his
spyros		Stay away from my boy! Without touching him, the Shaikh throws the fisherman over his head, where he lands hard with an "UMPH!" Perseus jolts awake. He reaches for his sword, but has none. Spyros struggles to his feet to start another charge. Suleiman raises his hand and freezes Spyros in his position. The Shaikh's veil has fallen, revealing his frightening countenance: scaled skin of charred wood; eyes like slots in a furnace. Perseus listens to the
perseus		Spyros, he means me no harm. The Shaikh lowers his hand: Spyros falls into the dirt. The Shaikh pulls his veil over his face. He kneels before Perseus, head bowed.
perseus		I hear you and I understand you. But I don't know how.
shaikh suleiman		Moi ne epos ae'prositi, mene daeva.
perseus		You are praying to me? There must be a mistake. The Shaikh proffers the gleaming bronze sickle which has a zig-zag, LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN engraved on the blade, honoring Zeus.
perseus		An offering'? I thank you and take it humbly, as agift from a friend, not an offering. He takes the weapon and bows his head, surprising the Shaikh.
shaikh suleiman		Tuj patir esti ho theos kosmosr.
perseus		You honor my father? You honor Spyros?
shaikh suleiman		Ho Zeus Patir... Zeus... Perseus reacts, taken aback to hear it from this mysterious stranger.
urd		 Amoun... So sorry to see you again.
amoun		Likewise, Urd. I seek your counsel.
amoun		You know already... of course.
verdandi		We know this -- the Kraken cannot be defeated.
amoun		Surely the beast from the sea has some weakness. You owe me this answer at least.
urd		The Sisters owe nothing to you or any Man! She tosses the Eye to Verdandi, who focuses her attention on Perseus.
verdandi		There's something wrong with that one. I don't like having him here.
skuld		Let me take a look. Verdandi tosses the Eye to Skuld. Perseus leaps and snags the Eye out of mid-air. The Strix SCREECH. Perseus goes to the precipice.
perseus		Tell us what we want to know or your Eye has seen its last.
verdandi		You've brought a thief into our nest!
urd		A villain!
skuld		Scum!
amoun		No, good Sisters... the son of Zeus. The Strix react in horror and all land on the same monolith.
perseus		Since you cannot see, let me tell you what's about to happen. I'm about to throw this evil Eye to the rocks far below. I fear its journey will be a taxing one. The members of the Expedition are impressed; Vidalia, too: the young demigod shows growing leadership. The Strix are panicked --
urd		We can't tell you. We don't dare betray Tiamat again.
verdandi		She sees all! Her touch is felt in every evil thing!
skuld		A second offense and she will
perseus		You don't have to tell us the secret. But you will have to live as blind as she made you.
skuld		No! Give us the Eye and we'll tell.
perseus		Tell me first. If I like the answer, you get your Eye.
verdandi		We need the Eye to see the answer!
amoun		You know the answer sure as you already knew the question. The Norn Sisters confer, enclosed in a curtain of wings.
skuld		Leviathan can be destroyed...
verdandi		The beast has one weakness.
spyros		Tell us now! The Strix are torn, frightened. Finally --
urd		The stare of Medusa. No creature can look directly in her eyes and still survive. The answer hangs in the silence of the stunned Expedition.
amoun		They're lying, Perseus. Perseus studies the Sisters, weighing his response.
perseus		I believe them.  Here's your second sight. Verdandi launches and catches it in her beak, pops it in her socket.
perseus		 And Medusa! Where does she abide?
skuld		In Tartaros, beyond the frozen Tethys Sea. Only Charon's ferry dare challenge the ice.
perseus		How can she be slain?
verdandi		With extraordinary cunning and unimaginable luck. Skuld flaps to the pitch-black portal to an UNDERGROUND
skuld		And the proper tools. Explore our cache of spoils. You may find such a tool. Perseus stares into the black entrance.
draco		Don't go in there, Perseus. It's a trap.
verdandi		No. We have guaranteed the rage of Tiamat with this revelation...
skuld		. we ask only that the young God mention our aid...
urd		... to his Father.
first mate		Captain, the storm is too great!
captain		Joppa is under siege! King Kepheus needs these supplies! Something huge breaches the surface. The captain squints through the rain... and sees the GIGANTIC SCUTED TAIL of Leviathan. IT GOES RIGHT PAST THEM, miraculously leaving the fleet untouched. But then -- they HEAR a sound BIGGER than the typhoon. The dark sky gets darker as an ENORMOUS BLACK SHAPE appears behind the Fleet, bearing down on them at impossible speed -- TIAMAT'S PALACE-GALLEON so dwarfs the Fleet that it PLOWS THROUGH the other ships without noticing, obliterating them in seconds, sending all hands to the depths.
thad		With respect, Magi, do not recite that black tale. You'll bring the sky down upon us.
draco		Tell the story, sir. My men fear only one thing -- to let fear in their hearts. Mongke says something that means, "Go ahead already."
amoun		Medusa was a tender young woman once -- a mortal creature of such rare beauty as to tempt even the Gods. One night, on the road home, she caught the eye of the God of Deserts and Entropy -- Set the Void.
amoun		Charon's ferry.
charon		Better stoke those fires, boys, it's going to get cold soon.
vidalia		She's got a tail and she'll use it just like that. Perseus opens his eyes.
vidalia		Keep your eyes shut! Open them with Medusa and it will be your last look.
vidalia		Good! Pleased, he doesn't sense her right cross, which knocks him down.
vidalia		Do you think the Gorgon will hit once and then surrender her head? He gets up, eyes closed, and resumes the defensive position, turning as she moves around him.
vidalia		Listen... you will hear her muscles coil. Feel her hunger in your gut. Ask, how will she feed it?
perseus		I wish it, but I can't perceive the world that way.
vidalia		You can. You're the son of a God.
vidalia		We think a room is silent until someone points out the wind. Then the wind is all we hear. She strikes. He dodges and locks her neck. Pleased, she flips him.
perseus		I'm beginning to hear the wind. (senses something,
perseus		Wait... She is already climbing the ladder. She stops for only a
vidalia		You've learned enough for now.
perseus		What?
spyros		Nothing.
perseus		What do you see?
spyros		A look I know well.
perseus		From me?
spyros		Never before.
perseus		Then where? Spyros smiles, puts his huge, calloused hand on Perseus' shoulder.
spyros		In my own mirror, son.
perseus		When does it go away?
spyros		If we're lucky... never.
shaikh suleiman		Jaggous temploi Tartaros de Gorgoneion maitress.
amoun		The Temple of Tartaros... Medusa's lair. Mongke and Tamburlane exchange words and point. They all
amoun		Medusa must have turned them to stone. Perseus swings his sickle, measuring its balance, and adjusts his shield. He checks a canvas sack on his belt.
perseus		I'm going into the Temple.
draco		Are you afraid?
perseus		Of what?
draco		Good boy.
perseus		Yes. You?
draco		I hear her, Perseus. She's near! Her torso behind him, she RATTLES her tail in front. Draco spins and slices the air. The RATTLE stops. Draco waits, confused.
kepheus		The relief fleet is lost. Monsters gather outside our walls. Soon I won't be able to keep my own people at bay. And still, no word from the Expedition. Kepheus raises a spyglass to survey the view beyond the city walls.
kepheus		Until the Expedition perhaps returns?... Until we're saved by the fisherman's son?
kepheus		They take refuge from the Lower Wharf. A sight I wish you'd never seen.
andromeda		And I thank you for the gift of my cosseted youth. But now, with Mother so...  It's time I shared this burden you've carried so long. Filled with emotion, he puts an arm around her.
andromeda		No, no longer. Your protection of me has brought hardship to our people...
andromeda		If you could end this siege with just one unselfish act, would you do it?
kepheus		 Listen to me. By the time this is over, your mother and I may well be gone. But I guarantee the day is coming when Joppa will know glory under Queen Andromeda. She embraces him, head upon his shoulder, where he can't see her resolve.
andromeda		Be at peace, Father, I will not cause you any more sadness than I already have.
remaining		The exhausted Expedition is now six: Perseus, Vidalia, Amoun, Spyros, Mongke, and Tamburlane. They've stopped at a well beside a MILESTONE.
spyros		Eleven stadia to the South... What is 'Polis of Jove Pater'? I'm ignorant of this.
amoun		Jove the Father is another name by which Zeus was known. This milestone dates from when city states were named for their patron deities. Perseus, filling his canteen, peers at the marker as Amoun uses one hand to cover the letters "-VE" and the other the letters "-TER."
amoun		'The Polis of Jove Pater' is the ancient name of --
perseus		-- Joppa.
amoun		Yes, Joppa... once the most sacred site in the worship of Jove.
perseus		 Tiamat chooses the city of Zeus to take hostage. (as Amoun confirms
amoun		. and transforms Joppa into the new church of Tiamat. The ancient abode of Zeus...
perseus		Father, we've seen much on this journey we cannot hold in our hands. Yet these things are real enough. At each turn, we find monsters and Gods.
spyros		Yes, the evidence is everywhere once we leave our island. That's why I so rarely leave. These Gods, what do you make of them?
spyros		Yes, as bad as men.  And would you have that sort guide your life?
perseus		No. Men must be accountable to themselves. Otherwise we serve poor masters.
perseus		We must keep moving. Time is running out.
spyros		If we don't rest the horses, they won't make it to Joppa.
perseus		Vidalia! Perseus slides from his horse and follows her. Mongke says something to Tamburlane; they LAUGH. Amoun to
amoun		Why don't we stop here tonight? Spyros smiles, looking off after Perseus.
vidalia		I know this place... Suddenly, she hurries to the trunk of an ancient tree. She probes the foliage, steps forward... and descends into the ground, out of sight.
vidalia		This is my church. Where I was born to the world. Where my people prayed to me.
perseus		Who were they?
vidalia		When I saw you come out with Medusa's head, I saw that a Man had done an impossible thing. Beautiful, yes, but not fragile. Resilient. Fearless.
perseus		I was mad with fear. I was no hero. I just didn't want to die. Perseus turns toward the altar.
perseus		What is this? A marble tablet sits on the altar, its surface defaced. Vidalia runs her fingers along the scoring.
vidalia		When the war began, Men ranged through the hills, stamping out any trace of God-worship they found.  My true name was carved here. When it was obliterated, my worshippers lost faith and my last season began.
perseus		How long do you have?
vidalia		Only days.
perseus		What will happen?
vidalia		I will vanish, quick as dew evaporating at dawn.
perseus		What about me?
vidalia		Nothing can save me.
perseus		I don't believe that. Will love not buy another day, Vidalia?
perseus		When you vanish, I'll find you.
vidalia		Close your eyes.                                            1
perseus		I'd rather look at you.
vidalia		Do what I tell you.  I'm going to give you a spell.
perseus		Don't give away your secrets. You still have need of them.
vidalia		Let me give you this sliver of magic. I'll write it on your instinct. When the time comes, you'll know how to use it. She takes his head in her hands, pressing her forehead to his. Gently, her fingers slip into his mind. A TEAR runs down her cheek.
perseus' pov		In QUICK FLASHES: A white lid opens to a black eye. Reflected in the eye -- clouds roll over a stormy sky.
tiamat		How did he do this? They were not even to reach Medusa.
tiamat		Spare me your pitiful maundering! There is no Fate beyond my actions and no uncertainty in the face of my will.
tiamat		Then there shall be no rules! Prove to me you have not lost that which makes you most valuable. Set absorbs her tirade, stung.
tiamat		I am your ally. That is all you need to know. Bloody your hands and rid me of this pestilence.
set		You have liberated me, my Queen. Watch as your desires are quickly satisfied. Set disappears.
perseus		Where is she?
perseus		It is not yours to permit, Master... with respect. Vidalia comes down into the shrine, her apron full of berries.
vidalia		Look what I've found for us -- She startles when she sees Amoun, dropping the berries.
perseus		I won't marry Andromeda.
amoun		If by some miracle you survive this encounter with Leviathan, the hand of the Princessa is your reward.
amoun		Are you so selfish? Would you risk everything for the foolish love of -- A BLAST of HOT DESERT WIND blows into the Shrine. The berries turn brown and shrivel. Amoun grabs his chest. Perseus and Vidalia crumple in agony. SET THE VOID COMES INTO THE SHRINE. Amoun tries to invoke a spell, but Set touches his chest and Amoun splits open. Set points at Vidalia, slamming her into the earthen wall. The God is there in an instant, strangling her. Perseus staggers up and swings his sickle, but Set points, ripping the weapon from Perseus' hand. It flies across the shrine and sinks with a CLANG into the tablet that once held Vidalia's true name. Still choking Vidalia, Set grabs Perseus' arm. Perseus doubles over, paralyzed by the God's touch. Suffocating, Vidalia FADES MORE. Immobilized, Perseus watches her struggle and searches
vidalia		I'm so sorry, Perseus. A look of brutal, determined resolve grows in Perseus' face.
perseus		We must go quickly now. He pulls the sickle from the marble with a BRINNG! The light flashes off Zeus' LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN on the blade.
perseus		The combat has just begun.
fantasos		We invoke thee, Queen of the Deep. We attend thee only to listen and obey. Fantasos moves through smoke to an altar, on which is a fearsome IDOL OF TIAMAT, unlike any representation we've seen.
fantasos		We serve your will so that we may be absorbed into your perfection... Holy of holies... Tiamat! The Sanctuary is suddenly filled with the VOICE of --
peshet		My lady? Princess Andromeda? She goes deeper into the rooms, then GASPS, looking off,
andromeda		Peshet, stop! I know what I am meant to do.
peshet		My lady, please --
andromeda		I was afraid, Peshet. Afraid to understand that the fate of so many could rest with me.
peshet		Princessa, give me your hand. Andromeda, please. Please.
andromeda		 I'm not afraid anymore. I will do what I must. I will die so that they may live.
peshet		I won't allow it, my lady. Today, you are only a Princess. One day your people may need a Queen ready to die for them. Peshet snatches up the dagger from where she dropped it.
peshet		Good.
andromeda		We must get to my mother and father. A VOICE from the darkness:
agenor		The Princessa is coming with us. She has a rendezvous to keep. Peshet WHIPS HER DAGGER through the air; it THUDS into the neck of the First Rebel, killing him on his feet. Before he can fall, Peshet leaps to him and pulls out her knife. She plants herself in front of Andromeda.
peshet		Come and get her. Agenor and the other two circle Peshet. She moves with feline agility, but is separated from the Princess. To the Second Rebel --
second rebel		You're not going anywhere, Your Highness. He grabs her in a bear hug from behind. She spins, tiny within his massive arms, and is suddenly facing him. He JOLTS in surprise, Andromeda's knife in his belly. He falls on her, dead. Peshet wins her struggle with the Third Rebel, sinking her dagger in him. She GASPS. Agenor has thrust his blade into her ribs. She totters and COUGHS -- deep and bloody. Peshet falls against the wall. Andromeda WAILS at the sight. She is pinned beneath the dead weight of the Second Rebel, unable to move. Agenor finishes off Peshet and turns to the Princess.
spyros		If it should come to pass, tell your mother and sister I loved them much. Perseus reaches out and touches his foster father warmly.
perseus		You'll have to tell them yourself. Vidalia's voice has become weaker.
vidalia		The people are frightened. But they can triumph.. They need only one thing. Perseus turns to her, a question on his face -- "Tell me...                                                       11
vidalia		A hero. They're waiting for you, Perseus. Perseus looks back toward the city. At last, there is no uncertainty in Perseus --
perseus		I will not fail them. He turns toward the Goddess, but Vidalia is gone.
perseus		Vidalia? (realizing,
andromeda's pov		As she RISES: The cliff drops straight down the jagged wall to the churning waves.
spyros		The sacrifice has begun.
perseus		I must get to the cliffs!
andromeda's pov		The Kraken slips underwater and its vast shadow immediately begins to circle wide for another attempt.
spyros		No shit. They raise their weapons and spur their horses down the slope to war.
far above		Perseus grips both the chain and the bag in his hand. Leviathan spirals on, but THE WINCH CATCHES ON A REEF and the chain SNAPS! Andromeda, suddenly separated from the monster, sinks, weighted by her shackles. Perseus, swimming with the raw power of a porpoise, dives after her, but loses his grip on the bag. Desperate, he looks back and forth: Andromeda, the sack -- both sinking. Perseus goes after the sack. Leviathan realizes it has lost the Princess. Huge eyes darting, it spots Andromeda and surges down after her. Andromeda, drowning, passes out. Tiny bubbles leak from her nose. Leviathan swims down to her, eye as big as her entire body. The wreck of a SUNKEN WHALER rests on the ocean floor. The Medusa sack FALLS INTO VIEW and catches on a harpoon wedged in the deck. Perseus appears, snags the sack and is about to kick upward. On impulse, he grabs the harpoon. Leviathan opens its huge jaws. Andromeda is sucked toward the maw. Perseus swims upward toward Leviathan's tail. Perseus concentrates -- a sparking BURST OF WHITE ENERGY shoots through his forearm to the harpoon in his grip. LIGHTNING CRACKLES and BOILS the water. He plunges the harpoon in the Kraken's tail -- -- at the same moment Leviathan inhales the unconscious Andromeda. Contact -- an ELECTRIC FLASH-POINT FLARES and a charge races up Leviathan's spine. Jolted, the monster spits Andromeda out. The Kraken twists to lock its enraged gaze on Perseus. Perseus shuts his eyes and yanks Medusa's head from the sack. Medusa's hellish eyes ignite channels of boiling energy into Leviathan's enormous eyeballs -- hardening them to boiled eggs, then rocky spheres.
tiamat		I damn you, Zeus! You will hear my curses forever in the crash of
perseus		Hello. (as she smiles,
andromeda		I think I am. He smiles. She'll never know how close they came to oblivion.
andromeda		Are you ready to become a king? His expression is kind, but unmistakable. "No." She accepts that, rueful.
perseus		Are you ready to become a queen?  
andromeda		Yes. Yes, I am.
perseus		Then you're ready to go home. Perseus raises one arm. The-AIR reverberates to a LOUD BEATING OF WINGS. Andromeda looks up in wonder. Pegasus appears out of the sun's glare, gracefully alighting on the water. Perseus helps Andromeda up and then climbs on behind her. Pegasus takes off. TILT UP WITH them until they are lost from sight.
perseus		Perseus views the scene from a nearby hill. Behind him, Pegasus waits patiently, grazing the grass. Until --
zeus		Am I to understand you do not intend to make this union with the Queen Andromeda?
perseus		Yes.
zeus		Despite my will and intention that you do so?
perseus		Yes.
zeus		Would you choose to condemn Men, your own people, to suffer more of this devastating War?
perseus		I have no people. You have stranded me between realms, neither man nor God.
perseus		No. I thank you... Father. Zeus, mighty God, reacts to the word. His expression softens and he looks on Perseus with growing pride.
perseus		You have freed me. I will not be a pawn for Men or Gods.
zeus		Does that absolve you suddenly of your responsibilities?
perseus		You've made me understand that my responsibility is to myself. So it is with us all.
perseus		It matters not. Whatever the source, I are only grateful. He looks off toward the funeral pyres and the human throng.
perseus		This war will end the moment you choose for it to end... and Men agree. I think, perhaps, that is the free will that all realms share. Zeus looks at him, proud, yet wistful -- what an offspring, what a creation!
zeus		What will you do, Man of free will? Perseus motions Pegasus forward, and swings up onto his back.
perseus		I'm going to find Vidalia.
zeus		So... my Son, you will be a pawn for love?
****Dialogues from script :Clerks.txt****

figure		 Hello...What?...No, I don't work today...I'm playing hockey at two.
dante		Next time, I get the bed.
dante		 Shit.
dante		Shit.
dante		Shit!
dante		Thanks. Have a good one.
activist		Do you mind if I drink this here?
dante		Sure. Go ahead.
customer		Are you open?
dante		Yeah.
customer		Pack of cigarettes.
activist		Are you sure?
customer		Am I sure?
activist		Are you sure?
customer		Am I sure about what?
activist		Do you really want to buy those cigarettes?
customer		Are you serious?
activist		How long have you been smoking?
customer		 What is this, a poll?
dante		Beats me.
activist		How long have you been a smoker?
customer		Since I was thirteen.
activist		I'd say you're about nineteen, twenty, am I right?
customer		What the hell is that?
activist		That's your lung. By this time, your lung looks like this.
customer		You're shittin' me.
activist		You think I'm shitting you...
customer		What's this?
activist		It's a trach ring. It's what they install in your throat when throat cancer takes your voice box. This one came out of a sixty-year-old man.
customer		 Unnhh!
activist		 He smoked until the day he died. Used to put the cigarette in this thing and smoke it that way.
dante		Excuse me, but...
activist		This is where you're heading. A cruddy lung, smoking through a hole in your throat. Do you really want that?
customer		Well, if it's already too late...
activist		It's never too late. Give those cigarettes back now, and buy some gum instead.  Here. Chewlies Gum. Try this.
customer		It's not the same.
activist		It's cheaper than cigarettes. And it certainly beats this.
customer		Jesus!
activist		It's a picture of a cancer-ridden lung. Keep it.
customer		 I'll just take the gum.
dante		Fifty-five.
activist		You've made a wise choice. Keep up the good work.
dante		Maybe you should take that coffee outside.
activist		No, I think I'll drink it in here, thanks.
dante		If you're going to drink it in here, I'd appreciate it if you'd not bother the customers.
activist		Okay. I'm sorry about that.
customer		Pack of cigarettes.  What's that?
activist		This? How long have you been smoking?
jay		WE NEED SOME TITS AND ASS! YEAH!
jay		I feel good today, Silent Bob. We're gonna make some money! And then you know what we're going to do? We're going to go to that party and get some pussy! I'm gonna fuck this bitch, that bitch...  I'LL FUCK ANYTHING THAT MOVES!
jay		 Doesn't that motherfucker still owe me ten bucks?
jay		Tonight, you and me are going off that fucker's head, and take out his fucking soul! Remind me if he tries to buy something from us, to cut it with leafs and twigs...or fucking shit in the motherfucker's bag!
jay		Wa sup sluts?  And then, I wanna line up three more guys, and make like a circus seal...
jay		Ewwww!  You fucking faggot! I fucking hate guys!  Neh.
guy		You selling?
jay		 I got hits, hash, weed, and later on I'll have 'shrooms. We take cash, or stolen MasterCard and Visa.
activist		You're spending what? Twenty, thirty dollars a week on cigarettes.
listener 1		Forty.
listener 2		Fifty-three.
activist		Fifty-three dollars. Would you pay someone that much money every week to kill you? Because that's what you're doing now, by paying for the so-called privilege to smoke!
listener 3		We all gotta go sometime...
activist		It's that kind of mentality that allows this cancer-producing industry to thrive. Of course we're all going to die someday, but do we have to pay for it? Do we have to actually throw hard-earned dollars on a counter and say, "Please, please, Mister Merchant of Death, sir; please sell me something that will give me bad breath, stink up my clothes, and fry my lungs."
listener 1		It's not that easy to quit.
activist		Of course it's not; not when you have people like this mindless cretin so happy and willing to sell you nails for your coffin!
dante		Hey, now wait a sec...
activist		Now he's going to launch into his rap about how he's just doing his job; following orders. 
dante		I think you'd better leave now.
activist		You want me to leave? Why? Because somebody is telling it like it is? Somebody's giving these fine people a wake-up call?!
dante		You're loitering in here, and causing a disturbance.
activist		You're the disturbance, pal! And here...  I'm buying some...what's this?...Chewlie's Gum. There. I'm no longer loitering. I'm a customer, a customer engaged in a discussion with other customers.
listener 2		 Yeah, now shut up so he can speak!
activist		Oh, he's scared now! He sees the threat we present! He smells the changes coming, and the loss of sales when the nonsmokers finally demand satisfaction. We demand the right to breathe cleaner air!
listener 3		Yeah!
activist		We'd rather chew our gum than embrace slow death! Let's abolish this heinous practice of sucking poison, and if it means ruffling the feathers of a convenience store idiot, then so be it!
dante		That's it, everybody out.
activist		We're not moving! We have a right, a constitutional right, to assemble and be heard!
dante		Yeah, but not in here.
activist		What better place than this? To stamp it out, you gotta start at the source!
dante		Like I'm responsible for all the smokers!
activist		The ones in this town, yes! You encourage their growth, their habit. You're the source in this area, and we're going to shut you down for good! For good, cancer-merchant!
crowd		Cancer merchant! Cancer merchant! Cancer merchant!
veronica		Who's leading this mob?
someone		That guy.
veronica		Let's see some credentials.
veronica		Slowly...
veronica		You're a Chewlie's Gum representative?
veronica		And you're stirring up all this antismoking sentiment to...what?...sell more gum?
veronica		 Get out of here.
veronica		 And you people: Don't you have jobs to go to? Get out of here and go commute.
veronica		You oughta be ashamed of yourselves. Easily led automatons. Try thinking for yourself before you pelt and innocent man with cigarettes.
veronica		It looked like Tiananmen Square in here for a second.
veronica		"Thank you, Veronica; you saved me from an extremely ugly mob scene."
veronica		 Okay, champ. What's wrong?
veronica		All right, stupid question. But don't you think you're taking this a bit too hard?
dante		Too hard?! I don't have enough indignities in my life-people start throwing cigarettes at me!
veronica		At least they weren't lit.
dante		I hate this fucking place.
veronica		Then quit. You should be going to school anyway...
dante		Please, Veronica. Last thing I need is a lecture at this point.
veronica		All I'm saying is that if you're unhappy you should leave.
dante		I'm not even supposed to be here today!
veronica		I know. I stopped by your house and your mom said you left at like six or something.
dante		The guy got sick and couldn't come in.
veronica		Don't you have a hockey game at two?
dante		Yes! And I'm going to play like shit because I didn't get a good night's sleep!
veronica		Why did you agree to come in then?
dante		I'm only here until twelve, then I'm gone. The boss is coming in.
veronica		Why don't you open the shutters and get some sunlight in here?
dante		Somebody jammed the locks with gum.
veronica		You're kidding.
dante		Bunch of savages in this town.
veronica		You look bushed. What time did you get to bed?
dante		I don't know-like two-thirty, three.
veronica		What were you doing up so late?
dante		 Hunhh? Nothing.
veronica		 What were you doing?
dante		Nothing! Jesus! I gotta fight with you now?
veronica		Who's fighting? Why are you so defensive?
dante		Who's defensive? Just...Would you just hug me?! All right? Your boyfriend was accosted by an angry mob, and he needs to be hugged.
dante		What? What is that?
veronica		She called you, didn't she?
dante		Oh, be real! Would you...Would you please hug me? I just went through a very traumatic experience and I haven't been having the best day so far. Now come on.
dante		What? What's with that look?! I wasn't talking to anyone, especially her! Look at you, being all sort of...I don't know...stand-offish.
dante		Fine. You don't trust me, don't hug me. I see how it is. All right Pissy-pants, you just go on being suspicious and quiet. I don't even want to hug you at this point.
dante		 Give you a dollar?
dante		 Thanks.
veronica		How much money did you leave up there?
dante		Like three dollars in mixed change and a couple of singles. People only get the paper of coffee this time of morning.
veronica		You're trusting.
dante		Why do you say that?
veronica		How do you know they're taking the right amount of change? Or even paying for what they take?
dante		Theoretically, people see money on the counter and nobody around, they think they're being watched.
veronica		Honesty through paranoia. Why do you smell like shoe polish?
dante		I had to use shoe polish to make that sign. The smell won't come off.
veronica		Do you think anyone can see us down here?
dante		Why? You wanna have sex or something?
veronica		 Ooh! Can we?!
dante		Really?
veronica		I was kidding.
dante		Yeah, right. You can't get enough of me.
veronica		Typically male point of view.
dante		How do you figure?
veronica		You show some bedroom proficiency, and you think you're gods. What about what we do for you?
dante		Women? Women, as lovers, are all basically the same: they just have to be there.
veronica		"Be there?"
dante		Making a male climax is not all that challenging: insert somewhere close and preferably moist; thrust; repeat.
veronica		How flattering.
dante		Now, making a woman cum...therein lies a challenge.
veronica		Oh, you think so?
dante		A girl makes a guy cum, it's standard. A guy makes a girl cum, it's talent.
veronica		And I actually date you?
dante		Something wrong?
veronica		I'm insulted. Believe me, Don Juan, it takes more than that to get a guy off. Just "being there"-as you put it-is not enough.
dante		I touched a nerve.
veronica		I'm astonished to hear you trivialize my role in our sex life.
dante		It wasn't directed at you. I was making a broad generalization.
veronica		You were making a generalization about "broads!"
dante		These are my opinions based on my experiences with the few women who were good enough to sleep with me.
veronica		How many?
dante		How many what?
veronica		How many girls have you slept with?
dante		How many different girls? Didn't we already have this discussion once?
veronica		We might have; I don't remember. How many?
dante		Including you?
veronica		It better be up to and including me.
dante		 Twelve.
veronica		You've slept with twelve different girls?
dante		Including you; yes.
dante		What the hell was that for?
veronica		You're a pig.
dante		Why'd you hit me?
veronica		Do you know how many different men I've had sex with?
dante		Do I get to hit you after you tell me?
veronica		Three.
dante		Three?
veronica		Three including you.
dante		You've only had sex with three different people?
veronica		I'm not the pig you are.
dante		Who?
veronica		You!
dante		No; who were the three, besides me?
veronica		John Franson and Rob Stanslyk.
dante		 Wow. That's great. That's something to be proud of.
veronica		I am. And that's why you should feel like a pig. You men make me sick. You'll sleep with anything that says yes.
dante		Animal, vegetable, or mineral.
veronica		Vegetable meaning paraplegic.
dante		They put up the least amount of struggle.
veronica		After dropping a bombshell like that, you owe me. Big.
dante		All right. Name it.
veronica		I want you to come with me on Monday.
dante		Where?
veronica		To school. There's a seminar about getting back into a scholastic program after a lapse in enrollment.
dante		Can't we ever have a discussion without that coming up?
veronica		It's important to me, Dante. You have so much potential that just goes to waste in this pit. I wish you'd go back to school.
dante		Jesus, would you stop? You make my head hurt when you talk about this.
dante		Shit! Why are we getting up?
veronica		Unlike you, I have a class in forty-five minutes.
veronica		 Willam!
willam		Ronnie! How are you? You work here now?
veronica		 This is Dante Hicks, my boyfriend.
dante		How are you? Just the soda?
willam		And a pack of cigarettes.  Are you still going to Seton Hall?
veronica		No, I transferred into Monmouth this year. I was tired of missing him. 
willam		Do you still talk to Sylvan?
veronica		I just talked to her on Monday. We still hang out on weekends.
willam		 That's cool. Well-you two lovebirds take it easy, all right?
veronica		I will. Take it easy.
willam		Bye. 
veronica		Bye  That was Snowball.
dante		Why do you call him that?
veronica		Sylvan made it up. It's a blow job thing.
dante		What do you mean?
veronica		After he gets a blow job, he likes to have the cum spit back into his mouth while kissing. It's called snowballing.
dante		He requested this?
veronica		He gets off on it.
dante		Sylvan can be talked into anything.
veronica		Why do you say that?
dante		Like you said-she snowballed him.
veronica		Sylvan? No; I snowballed him.
dante		Yeah, right.
veronica		I'm serious...
dante		You sucked that guy's dick?
veronica		Yeah. How do you think I know he liked...
dante		 But...but you said you only had sex with three guys! You never mentioned him!
veronica		That's because I never had sex with him!
dante		You sucked his dick!
veronica		We went out a few times. We didn't have sex, but we fooled around.
dante		 Oh my God! Why did you tell me you only slept with three guys?
veronica		Because I did only sleep with three guys! That doesn't mean I didn't just go with people.
dante		Oh my God-I feel so nauseous...
veronica		I'm sorry, Dante. I thought you understood.
dante		I did understand! I understand that you slept with three different guys, and that's all you said.
veronica		Please calm down.
dante		How many?
veronica		Dante...
dante		How many dicks have you sucked?!
veronica		Let it go...
dante		HOW MANY?
veronica		All right! Shut up a second and I'll tell you! Jesus! I didn't freak like this when you told me how many girls you fucked.
dante		This is different. This is important. How many?!
dante		Well...?
veronica		 Something like thirty-six.
dante		WHAT? SOMETHING LIKE THIRTY-SIX?
veronica		Lower your voice!
dante		What the hell is that anyway, "something like thirty-six?" Does that include me?
veronica		Um. Thirty-seven.
dante		I'M THIRTY-SEVEN?
veronica		 I'm going to class.
dante		Thirty-seven?!  My girlfriend sucked thirty-seven dicks!
customer		In a row?
dante		Hey! Where are you going?!
veronica		Hey listen, jerk! Until today you never even knew how many guys I'd slept with, because you never even asked. And then you act all nonchalant about fucking twelve different girls. Well, I never had sex with twelve different guys!
dante		No, but you sucked enough dick!
veronica		Yeah, I went down on a few guys...
dante		A few?
veronica		...And one of those guys was you! The last one, I might add, which-if you're too stupid to comprehend- means that I've been faithful to you since we met! All the other guys I went with before I met you, so, if you want to have a complex about it, go ahead! But don't look at me like I'm the town whore, because you were plenty busy yourself, before you met me!
dante		 Well...why did you have to suck their dicks? Why didn't you just sleep with them, like any decent person?!
veronica		Because going down it's a big deal! I used to like a guy, we'd make out, and sooner or later I'd go down on him. But I only had sex with the guys I loved.
dante		I feel sick.
veronica		 I love you. Don't feel sick.
dante		Every time I kiss you now I'm going to taste thirty-six other guys.
veronica		I'm going to school. Maybe later you'll be a bit more rational.
dante		 Thirty-seven. I just can't...
veronica		Goodbye, Dante.
dante		Try not to suck any more dicks on your way through the parking lot!
dante		HEY! HEY, YOU! GET BACK HERE!
impatient customer		 I thought that place was supposed to be opened at eleven o'clock? It's twenty after!
dante		I called his house twice already. He should be here soon.
impatient customer		It's not like it's a demanding job. I'd like to get paid to sit on my ass and watch TV. The other day I walked in there and that sonofabitch was sleeping.
dante		I'm sure he wasn't sleeping.
impatient customer		You calling me a liar?
dante		No; he was probably just resting his eyes.
impatient customer		What the hell is that? Resting his eyes! It's not like he's some goddamned air traffic controller!
dante		Actually, that's his night job.
impatient customer		Such a wiseass. But go ahead. Crack wise. That's why you're jockeying a register in some fucking local convenience store instead of doing an honest day's work.  I got no more time to bullshit around waiting for that sonofabitch. You make sure this gets back. The number's eight-twelve-Wynarski. And I wanted to get a damn movie, too.
dante		If you'll just tell me the title of your rental choice, I'll have him hold it for you.
impatient customer		 Don't hurt yourself. I'm going to Big Choice Video instead.
dante		 You forgot your keys.
randal		You're kidding. It's almost eleven- thirty!
randal		 Man! I hate it when I can't rent videos!
randal		Which one?
randal		You came for that too? That's the movie I came for.
randal		Says who?
randal		Ain't gonna happen, my friend. I'm getting that tape.
randal		I'll bet you twenty bucks you don't get to rent that tape.
randal		Twenty bucks.
impatient customer		You see a pair of keys lying around here somewhere?
dante		You're late.
randal		What the hell are you doing here? I thought you were playing hockey at one.
dante		The boss called. Arthur fell ill.
randal		Why are the shutters closed?
dante		Someone jammed gum in the locks.
randal		Bunch of savages in this town.
dante		That's what I said.
randal		Shit, if I'd known you were working, I would've come even later.
randal		What time do you have to stay till?
dante		He assured me that he'd be here by twelve.
randal		What smells like shoe polish?
dante		Go open the sore.
impatient customer		Hey-did you see a set of keys lying around here?
randal		 No time for love, Doctor Jones!
impatient customer		Fucking kids.
randal		Some guy just came in refusing to pay late fees. He said the store was closed for two hours yesterday. I tore up his membership.
dante		Shocking abuse of authority.
randal		I'm a firm believer in the philosophy of a ruling class, especially since I rule.  Is the Pelican flying?
dante		Don't screw with it. It makes us look suspicious.
randal		I can't stand a voyeur. I'll be back.
randal		Want something to drink? I'm buying.
randal		Who was on your phone this morning at about two-thirty? I was trying to call for a half an hour.
randal		I wanted to use your car.
randal		Snake cake?
dante		You don't want to know.
randal		You called Caitlin again?
dante		She called me.
randal		Did you tell Veronica?
dante		One fight a day with Veronica is about all I can stomach, thanks.
randal		What do you two fight about?
dante		I guess it's not really fighting. She just wants me to leave here, go back to school, get some direction.
randal		 I'll bet the most frequent topic of arguments is Caitlin Bree.
dante		You win.
randal		I'm going to offer you some advice, my friend: let the past be the past. Forget Caitlin Bree. You've been with Veronica for how long now?
dante		Seven months.
randal		Chick's nuts about you. How long did you date Caitlin?
dante		Five years.
randal		Chick only made you nuts. She cheated on you how many times?
dante		Eight and a half.
randal		 Eight and a half?
dante		Party at John K's-senior year. I get blitzed and pass out in his bedroom. Caitlin comes in and dives all over me.
randal		That's cheating?
dante		In the middle of it, she calls me Brad.
randal		She called you Brad?
dante		She called me Brad.
randal		That's not cheating. People say crazy shit during sex. One time, I called this girl "Mom."
dante		I hit the lights and she freaks. Turns out she thought I was Brad Michaelson.
randal		What do you mean?
dante		She was supposed to meet Brad Michaelson in a bedroom. She picked the wrong one. She had no idea I was even at the party.
randal		Oh, my God.
dante		Great story, isn't it?
randal		That girl was vile to you.
dante		Interesting postscript to that story: Do you know who wound up going with Brad Michaelson in the other dark bedroom?
randal		Your mother.
dante		Allan Harris.
randal		Chess team Allan Harris?!
dante		The two moved to Idaho together after graduation. They raise sheep.
randal		That's frightening.
dante		It takes different strokes to move the world.
randal		In light of this lurid tale, I don't see how you could even romanticize your relationship with Caitlin-she broke your heart and inadvertently drove men to deviant lifestyles.
dante		Because there was a lot of good in our relationship.
randal		Oh yeah.
dante		I'm serious. Aside from the cheating, we were a great couple. That's what high school's all about-algebra, bad lunch, and infidelity.
randal		You think things would be any different now?
dante		They are. When she calls me now, she's a different person-she's frightened and vulnerable. She's about to finish college and enter the real world. That's got to be scary for anyone.
randal		 Oh shit, I've got to place an order.
dante		I'm talking to myself here.
randal		No, no, I'm listening. She's leaving college, and...?
dante		...and she's looking to me for support. And I think that this is leading our relationship to a new level.
randal		What about Veronica?
dante		I think the arguments Veronica and I are having are some kind of manifestation of a subconscious desire to break away from her so that I can pursue the possibility of a more meaningful relationship with Caitlin.
randal		Caitlin's on the same wave-length?
dante		I think it's safe to say yes.
randal		Then I think all four of you had better sit down and talk it over.
dante		All four?
randal		You, Veronica, Caitlin...  ...and Caitlin's fianc.
randal		Yes, I'd like to place an order, please...Thank you.
mother		Excuse me, but do you see videotapes?
randal		What were you looking for?
mother		 It's called Happy Scrappy-The Hero Pup.
small child		Happy Scrappy!
randal		I'm on the phone with the distribution house now. Let me make sure they have it. What's it called again?
mother		Happy Scrappy-The Hero Pup.
small child		Happy Scrappy!
mother		 She loves the tape.
randal		Obviously. 
mother		 Happy Scrappy-The Hero Pup.
randal		 Sixteen forty-nine. It'll be here Monday.
small child		Cunt!
dante		Yes, I'd like to check on a misprint in today's edition...Today's edition...It says "Bree to Wed Asian Design Major...No, no; everything's spelled fine. I just wanted to know if the piece was a misprint...I don't know, like a typographical error or something...
dante		...I'm an ex-boyfriend...Well, it's just that we talk all the time, and she never mentioned this engagement, which is why I'm thinking maybe it's a misprint...
dante		Meaning like someone who maybe-I don't know-asked her out once and got shot down, and his revenge is throwing this bogus article in when the paper went to press...Hello?...Hello?
jay		"Not in me." That's what she says. I gotta pull out and spank it to get it on. So I blow a nut on her belly, and I get out of there, just as my uncle walks in. It was such a close call. I tell you what, though, I don't care if she is my cousin, I'm gonna knock those boots again tonight.
jay		Oh shit, look who it is. The human vacuum.
girl 1		Scumbag. What are you doing?
jay		Nothing. Just hanging out with Silent Bob and his cousin.
girl 1		 He's your cousin?
jay		Check this out, he's from Russia.
girl 1		No way.
jay		I swear to God. Silent Bob, am I lying?
jay		See? And Silent Bob never told a lie in his life.
girl 2		What part of Russia?
jay		I don't fucking know. What am I, his biographer?  Olaf, what part of Russia are you from?
silent bob		 Home.
olaf		 Moscow.
girl 1		He only speaks Russian?
jay		He knows some English, but he can't not speak it good like we do.
girl 2		Is he staying here?
jay		He's moving to the big city next week. He wants to be a metal singer.
girl 1		No way!
jay		Swear.  Olaf, metal!
jay		That's his fucking metal face.  Olaf, girls nice?
olaf		Skrelnick.
jay		 That's fucked up.
girl 1		What did he say?
jay		I don't know, man. He's a fucking character.
girl 2		He really wants to play metal?
jay		He's got his own band in Moscow. It's called "Fuck Your Yankee Blue Jeans" or something like that.
girl 1		That doesn't sound metal.
jay		You gotta hear him sing.  Olaf, "Berserker!"
jay		Come on, man, "Berserker!"
girl 2		Does he sing in English or Russian?
jay		English.  Come on, "Berserker!" Girls think sexy.
olaf		 Da. Da.
jay		He's gonna sing it. This is too funny.
olaf		 MY LOVE FOR YOU IS LIKE A TRUCK BERSERKER! WOULD YOU LIKE SOME MAKING FUCK? BERSERKER!
jay		 That's fucking funny, man!
girl 1		Did he say "making fuck?"
jay		Wait, there's more. 
olaf		 MY LOVE FOR YOU IS LIKE A ROCK BERSERKER!WOULD YOU LIKE TO SMOKE SOME POT? BERSERKER!
olaf		MY LOVE FOR YOU IS TICKING CLOCK BERSERKER!WOULD YOU LIKE TO SUCK MY COCK? BERSERKER!
dante		You hold the counter and I'll pull.
man		Usually I just turn the can upside down.
dante		 Maybe we should soap your hand or something.
man		 They oughta put some kind of warning on these cans, like they do with cigarettes.
dante		I think it's coming now...
man		Thanks. I thought I was gonna have to go to the hospital.
dante		I'll throw this out. Precautionary measure.
man		It stings a little.
dante		A word of advice: Sometimes it's best to let those hard to reach chips go.
man		Thanks.
dante		Do you know that article is accurate? Caitlin's really getting married!
randal		You know what I just watched?
dante		Me pulling a can off some moron's fist.
randal		Return of the Jedi.
dante		Didn't you hear me? Caitlin really is getting married.
randal		Which did you like better: Jedi or The Empire Strikes Back.
dante		 Empire.
randal		Blasphemy.
dante		Empire had the better ending: Luke gets his hand cut off, and finds out Vader's his father; Han gets frozen and taken away by Boba Fett. It ends on such a down note. And that's life-a series of down endings. All Jedi had was a bunch of Muppets.
randal		There was something else going on in Jedi. I never noticed it until today.
dante		What's that?
randal		All right, Vader's boss...
dante		The Emperor.
randal		Right, the Emperor. Now the Emperor is kind of a spiritual figure, yes?
dante		How do you mean?
randal		Well, he's like the pope for the dark side of the Force. He's a holy man; a shaman, kind of, albeit an evil one.
dante		I guess.
randal		Now, he's in charge of the Empire. The Imperial government is under his control. And the entire galaxy is under Imperial rule.
dante		Yeah.
randal		Then wouldn't that logically mean that it's a theocracy? If the head of the Empire is a priest of some sort, then it stands to reason that the government is therefore one based on religion.
dante		It would stand to reason, yes.
randal		Hence, the Empire was a fascist theocracy, and the rebel forces were therefore battling religious persecution.
dante		More or less.
randal		The only problem is that at no point in the series did I ever hear Leia or any of the rebels declare a particular religious belief.
dante		I think they were Catholics.
dante		Yeah. Come in.
randal		You know what else I noticed in Jedi?
dante		There's more?
randal		So they build another Death Star, right?
dante		Yeah.
randal		Now the first one they built was completed and fully operational before the Rebels destroyed it.
dante		Luke blew it up. Give credit where it's due.
randal		And the second one was still being built when they blew it up.
dante		Compliments of Lando Calrissian.
randal		Something just never sat right with me the second time they destroyed it. I could never put my finger on it-something just wasn't right.
dante		And you figured it out?
randal		Well, the thing is, the first Death Star was manned by the Imperial army-storm troopers, dignitaries- the only people onboard were Imperials.
dante		Basically.
randal		So when they blew it up, no prob. Evil is punished.
dante		And the second time around...?
randal		The second time around, it wasn't even finished yet. They were still under construction.
dante		So?
randal		A construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the Imperial army had to offer. I'll bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.
dante		Not just Imperials, is what you're getting at.
randal		Exactly. In order to get it built quickly and quietly they'd hire anybody who could do the job. Do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main? All they know is killing and white uniforms.
dante		All right, so even if independent contractors are working on the Death Star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?
randal		All those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed- casualties of a war they had nothing to do with. 
randal		The ending of Return of the Jedi.
dante		My friend is trying to convince me that any contractors working on the uncompleted Death Star were innocent victims when the space station was destroyed by the rebels.
randal		Like when?
dante		Whose house was it?
randal		"Babyface" Bambino? The gangster?
dante		Based on personal politics.
randal		No way!
woman		Is that video store open or not?
indecisive customer		 They say so much, but they never tell you if it's any good.
indecisive customer		Are either of these any good?
indecisive customer		Sir!
randal		 What.
indecisive customer		 Are either of these any good?
randal		 I don't watch movies.
indecisive customer		Well, have you heard anything about either of them?
randal		 No.
indecisive customer		 You've never heard anybody say anything about either movie?
randal		They suck.
indecisive customer		I just held up the same two movies. You're not even paying attention.
randal		No, I wasn't.
indecisive customer		I don't think your manager would appreciate...
randal		 I don't appreciate your ruse, ma'am.
indecisive customer		I beg your pardon!
randal		 Your ruse. Your cunning attempt to trick me.
indecisive customer		 I only pointed out that you weren't paying any attention to what I was saying.
randal		 I hope it feels good.
indecisive customer		You hope what feels good?
randal		I hope it feels so good to be right. There is nothing more exhilarating than pointing out the shortcomings of others, is there?
indecisive customer		 Well this is the last time I ever rent here...
randal		You'll be missed.
indecisive customer		 Screw you!
randal		 You're not allowed to rent here anymore!
randal		Screw me!
randal		You'll never believe what this unruly customer just said...
dante		 Wait.
randal		 She's in here?
dante		This guy is going through all of the eggs. Look.
randal		What's he looking for?
dante		He said he has to find a perfect dozen.
randal		Perfect dozen.
dante		Each egg has to be perfect.
randal		The quest isn't going well?
dante		Obviously not. Look at all the cartons that didn't make the grade.
dante		I told him that and he yelled at me.
randal		What did he say?
dante		He said it was important to have standards. He said nobody has pride anymore.
randal		It's not like you laid the eggs yourself.
dante		I'll give him five more minutes then I'm calling the cops. I don't need this, man. I'm not even supposed to be here today.
smoker		Two packs of cigarettes.
randal		 I'm as puzzled as you.
smoker		 I've actually seen it before.
dante		You know him?
smoker		No, I've seen that behavior before. Looking for the perfect carton of eggs, right?
randal		 Yeah. How'd you know?
smoker		I'll bet you a million bucks that the guy's a guidance counselor.
dante		Why do you say that?
smoker		I was in the Food City last year when the same thing happened, different guy though. Stock boy told me that the guy had been looking through the eggs for like half an hour, doing all sorts of endurance tests and shit. I ask the kid how come nobody called the manager, and he says it happens twice a week, sometimes more.
randal		Get out of here.
smoker		I kid you not. They call it Shell Shock. Only happens with guidance counselors for some reason. The kid said they used to make a big deal about it, but there's no point.
dante		Why guidance counselors?
smoker		If your job served as little purpose as theirs, wouldn't you lose it, too?
randal		Come to think of it, my guidance counselor was kind of worthless.
smoker		 See? It's important to have a job that makes a difference, boys. That's why I kill Chinamen for the railroad.
little girl		 Can I have a pack of cigarettes?
dante		Did you ever notice all the prices end in nine? Damn, that's eerie.
randal		You know how much money the average jizz-mopper make per hour?
dante		What's a jizz-mopper?
randal		He's the guy in those nudie-booth joints who cleans up after each guy that jerks off.
dante		Nudie booth?
randal		Nudie booth. You've never been in a nudie booth?
dante		I guess not.
randal		Oh, it's great. You step into this little booth and there's this window between you and this naked woman, and she puts on this little show for like ten bucks.
dante		What kind of show?
randal		Think of the weirdest, craziest shit you'd like to see chicks do. These chicks do it all. They insert things into any opening in their body...any opening.  He's led a very sheltered life.
dante		 Can we talk about this later?
randal		The jizz-mopper's job is to clean up the booths afterward, because practically everybody shoots a load against the window, and I don't know if you know or not, but cum leaves streaks if you don't clean it right away.
customer		 This is the last time I come to this place.
dante		Excuse me?
customer		Using filthy language in front of the customers...you should both get fired.
dante		We're sorry, ma'am. We got a little carried away.
customer		Well, I don't know if sorry can make up for it. I found your remarks highly offensive.
randal		Well, you think that's offensive...
randal		...then check this out. I think you can see her kidneys.
dante		Ma'am, ma'am, I'm sorry! Please, wait a second, ma'am...
dante		Why do you do things like that? You know she's going to come back and tell the boss.
randal		Who cares? That lady's an asshole. Everybody that comes in here is way too uptight. This job would be great if it wasn't for the fucking customers.
dante		I'm gonna hear it tomorrow.
randal		You gotta loosen up, my friend. You'd feel a hell of a lot better if you'd rip into the occasional customer.
dante		What for? They don't bother me if I don't bother them.
randal		Liar! Tell me there aren't customers that annoy the piss out of you on a daily basis.
dante		There aren't.
randal		How can you lie like that? Why don't you vent? Vent your frustration. Come on, who pisses you off?
dante		 It's not really anyone per se, it's more of separate groupings.
randal		Let's hear it.
dante		 The milkmaids.
randal		The milkmaids?
randal		You know who I can do without? I could do without the people in the video store.
dante		Which ones?
randal		All of them.
first		What would you get for a six-year- old boy who chronically wets his bed?
second		 Do you have any new movies in?
third		Do you have that one with the guy who was in that movie that was out last year?
randal		And they never rent quality flicks; they always pick the most intellectually devoid movie on the rack.
first		Ooooh! Home Alone!
second		Ooooh! Hook!
third		Ooooh! Navy Seals!
first		 What do you mean there's no ice? You mean I've gotta drink this coffee hot?!
second		 How much?
third		 Do you sell hubcaps?
randal		See? You vented. Don't you feel better now?
dante		No.
randal		Why not?
dante		Because my ex-girlfriend is getting married.
randal		Jesus, you got a one-track mind. It's always Caitlin, Caitlin, Caitlin...
dante		 Veronica!
veronica		What happened to home by twelve?
dante		He still hasn't shown up. Why aren't you in class?
veronica		Lit 101 got canceled, so I stopped home and brought you some lunch.
dante		What is it?
veronica		Peanut butter and jelly with the crusts cut off. What do you think it is? It's lasagne.
dante		Really?  You're the best.
veronica		I'm glad you've calmed down a bit.  Hi, Randal.
dante		 Yes, I've calmed down, I'm still not happy about it, but I've been able to deal.
dante		 Why don't you go back to the video store?
veronica		You had to tell him.
dante		I had to tell someone. He put it into perspective.
veronica		What did he say?
dante		At least he wasn't thirty-six.
veronica		And that made you feel better?
dante		And he said most of them are college guys, I've never met or seen.
veronica		The ostrich syndrome: if you don't see it...
dante		...it isn't there. Yes.
veronica		Thank you for being rational.
dante		Thank you for the lasagne.
veronica		You couldn't get these shutters open?
dante		I called a locksmith and he said the earliest he could get here it tomorrow.
veronica		Bummer, Well, I've gotta head back for the one-thirty class.
dante		What time do you get finished?
veronica		Eight. But I have a sorority meeting till nine, so I'll be back before you close. Can we go out and get some coffee?
dante		Sure.
veronica		Good.  I'll see you when you close, then. Enjoy the lasagne.
randal		All right, now if you're really feeling dangerous tonight, then Smokey and the Bandit Three is the movie you must rent.
customer		 This doesn't even have Burt Reynolds in it.
randal		Hey, neither did ET; but that was a great movie, right?
dante		Can you come next door? I gotta make a phone call.
randal		 Smokey Three: thumbs up, am I right?
dante		The best Burtless movie ever made.
customer		Awww, he's so cute. What's his name?
randal		Lenin's Tomb.
dante		Hello, is Mr. Synder there? This is Dante...Did he say if he was on his way here?...Here...The convenience store...I know, but the other guy called out this morning and Mr. 
randal		Vermont?
dante		Can you believe this?!
randal		He didn't mention it when he called you this morning?
dante		Not a fucking word! Slippery shit!
randal		So, what-you're stuck here all day?
dante		FUCK!
randal		Why'd you apologize?
dante		What?
randal		I heard you apologize. Why? You have every right in the world to be mad.
dante		I know.
randal		That seems to be the leitmotif in your life; ever backing down.
dante		I don't back down.
randal		Yes, you do. You always back down. You assume blame that isn't yours, you come in when called as opposed to enjoying your day off, you buckle like a belt.
dante		You know what pisses me off the most?
randal		The fact that I'm right about your buckling?
dante		I'm going to miss the game.
randal		Because you buckled.
dante		Would you shut the hell up with that shit? It's not helping.
randal		Don't yell at me, pal.
dante		Sorry.
randal		See? There you go again.
dante		I can't believe I'm going to miss the game!
randal		At least we're stuck here together.
dante		You've got a customer.
dante		Sanford? Dante...I can't play today...I'm stuck at work...I know I'm not scheduled, but-just forget it. I can't play...Neither can Randal...He's working too...
dante		 Do you feel limber?
dante		 Pull my laces tighter.
randal		 I've gotta tell you, my friend: this is one of the ballsiest moves I've ever been privy to. I never would have thought you capable of such blatant disregard of store policy.
dante		I told him I had a game today. It's his own fault.
randal		No argument here. Insubordination rules.
dante		I just want to play hockey like I was scheduled to.
sanford		Dante, let me grab a Gatorade.
dante		If you grab a Gatorade, then everybody's going to grab one.
sanford		So?
dante		So? So nobody's going to want to pay for these Gatorades.
sanford		What do you care? Hey, what smells like shoe polish?
dante		I've got a responsibility here. I can't let everybody grab free drinks.
sanford		What responsibility? You're closing the fucking store to play hockey.
randal		He's blunt, but he's got a point.
dante		At least let me maintain some semblance of managerial control here.
sanford		All I'm saying is if you're going to be insubordinate, you should go the full nine and not pussy out when it comes to free refreshments.
randal		He's right. As if we're suddenly gonna have a run on Gatorade.
sanford		Fuckin-A.
dante		All right. Jesus, you fuckers are pushy.
sanford		Hey man, I hear Caitlin's marrying an Asian drum major.
randal		Design major.
dante		Can we not talk about this?
sanford		Fine by me. But you're living in denial and suppressing rage.  Dante said we can all drink free Gatorade.
randal		Are you gonna lock the store?
dante		I don't know. You going to lock the video store?
randal		Look who you're asking here. How're we gonna block off the street?
dante		We're not playing in the street.
randal		Then where're we gonna play?
dante		Ready?
customer		When's this period over?
customer		Are you shitting me? I want to get cigarettes!
dante		 If you can just wait a few more minutes.
customer		Fuck that! I'm gonna break my crazy neck on this ladder!
customer		He's busy!
dante		I'll be right back. It's almost over.
customer		What the fuck is this?! I want some service!
customer		Fuck in a second! This is...Look at you! You can't even pass!
customer		How 'bout covering point!? You suck!
dante		Who are you to make assessments?
customer		I'll assess all I want!
customer		 You suck!
dante		Like you're better!
customer		I can whip your ass.
woman		Is the convenience store open?
dante		 REDDING! COME OFF AND LET THIS FUCK ON!
dante		Give me another ball.
dante		What the fuck are you talking about? How many balls did you bring?
sanford		 There was the orange ball...and the orange ball.
dante		Are there any balls down there?!
dante		You only brought one ball?!
sanford		I thought Redding had like three balls!
dante		Nobody has another ball?
sanford		Shit!
dante		We get...what...twelve minutes of game, and it's over? Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!!  I'm not even supposed to be here today!
sanford		We still get free Gatorade, right?
old man		Be careful.
dante		I'm trying.
old man		You know the insides of those are filled with stuff that gives you cancer.
dante		So I'm told.
old man		I had a friend that used to chew glass for a living. In the circus.
dante		And he got cancer by chewing fluorescent bulb glass...?
old man		No, he got hit by a bus.
dante		 Oh...Can I help you?
old man		Well, that depends. Do you have a bathroom?
dante		Um...yeah, but it's for employees only.
old man		I understand, but can I use it. I'm not that young anymore, so I'm kind of...you know...incontinent.
dante		Uh...sure. Go ahead. It's back through the cooler.
old man		Thanks son. Say-what kind of toilet paper you got back there?
dante		The white kind.
old man		I'm not asking about the color. I mean is it rough or cottony?
dante		Actually, it is kind of rough.
old man		Rough, eh? Oh, that stuff rips hell out of my hemorrhoids. Say, would you mind if I took a roll of the soft stuff back there. I see you sell the soft stuff.
dante		Yeah, but...
old man		Aw, c'mon boy. What's the difference? You said yourself the stuff that's there now is rough.
dante		Yeah, okay. Go ahead.
old man		Thanks son, you're a lifesaver.
old man		Say, young fella, you know I hate to bother you again, but can I take a paper or something back there...to read? It usually takes me a while, and I like to read while it's going on.
dante		Jesus...go ahead.
old man		Thanks, young man. You've got a heart of gold.
dante		You know, you probably could've been home, already, in the time it's taken you to get in there.
old man		Can I trouble you for one of those magazines?
dante		I said go ahead.
old man		No, I mean the ones there. Behind the counter.
dante		The porno mags?
old man		Yeah. I like the cartoons. They make me laugh. They draw the biggest titties.
dante		 Here. Now leave me alone.
old man		Uh, can I have the other one. The one below this one. They show more in that one.
old man		Thanks son. I appreciate this.
randal		Helluva game!
dante		One ball!! They come all the way here...I close the damn store...for one ball!
randal		Hockey's hockey. At least we got to play.
dante		Randal, twelve minutes is not a game! Jesus, it's barely a warm-up!
randal		Bitch, bitch, bitch. You want something to drink? 
dante		Gatorade.
dante		Exactly. They drank it all.
dante		 "It's not like we're gonna sell out."
randal		You know what Sanford told me? 
dante		I still can't believe Caitlin's getting married.
randal		Julie Dwyer died.
dante		Yeah, right.
randal		No, I'm serious.
dante		Oh, my god.
randal		Sanford's brother dates her cousin. He found out this morning.
dante		How? When?
randal		Embolism in her brain. Yesterday.
dante		Jesus.
randal		She was swimming at the YMCA pool when it happened. Died midbackstroke.
dante		I haven't seen her in almost two years.
randal		Correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't she one of the illustrious twelve?
dante		Number six.
randal		You've had sex with a dead person.
dante		I'm gonna go to her wake.
randal		No, you're not.
dante		Why not?
randal		It's today.
dante		What!?
randal		Paulsen's Funeral Parlor. The next show is at four.
dante		Shit. What about tomorrow?
randal		One night only. She's buried in the morning.
dante		You've gotta watch the store. I have to go to this.
randal		Wait, wait, wait. Has it occurred to you that I might bereaved as well?
dante		You hardly knew her!
randal		True, but do you know how many people are going to be there? All of our old classmates, to say the least.
dante		Stop it. This is beneath even you.
randal		I'm not missing what's probably going to be the social event of the season.
dante		You hate people.
randal		But I love gatherings. Isn't it ironic?
dante		Don't be an asshole. Somebody has to stay with the store.
randal		If you go, I go.
dante		She meant nothing to you!
randal		She meant nothing to you either until I told you she died.
dante		I'm not taking you to this funeral.
randal		I'm going with you.
dante		I can't close the store.
randal		You just closed the store to play hockey on the roof!
dante		Exactly, which means I can't close it for another hour so we can both go to a wake.
randal		You were saying?
dante		Thanks for putting me in a tough spot. You're a good friend.
randal		She was pretty young, hunhh?
dante		Twenty-two; same as us.
randal		An embolism in a pool.
dante		An embarrassing way to die.
randal		That's nothing compared to how my cousin Walter died.
dante		How'd he die?
randal		Broke his neck.
dante		That's embarrassing?
randal		He broke his neck trying to suck his own dick.
dante		Shut the hell up.
randal		Bible truth.
dante		Stop it.
randal		I swear.
dante		Oh, my god.
randal		Come on. Haven't you ever tried to suck your own dick?
dante		No!
randal		Yeah sure. You're so repressed.
dante		Because I never tried to suck my own dick?
randal		No, because you won't admit to it. As if a guy's a fucking pervert because he tries to go down on himself. You're as curious as the rest of us, pal. You've tried it.
dante		Who found him?
randal		My cousin? My aunt found him. On his bed, doubled over himself with his legs on top. Dick in his mouth. My aunt freaked out. It was a mess.
dante		His dick was in his mouth?
randal		Balls resting on his lips.
dante		He made it, hunhh?
randal		Yeah, but at what a price.
dante		I could never reach.
randal		Reach what?
dante		You know.
randal		What, your dick?
dante		Yeah. Like you said, you know. I guess everyone tries it, sooner of later.
randal		I never tried it.
randal		Fucking pervert.
dante		I know it was a bad idea to close the store.
randal		Listen to you.
dante		I can't help it. At least when we were playing hockey outside, I could see if anyone wanted to go in.
randal		Nobody's there. It's four o'clock on a Saturday. How many people ever come to the store at four on a Saturday?
dante		 I can't fucking believe you!!
randal		I'm telling you, it wasn't my fault!
dante		You knocked the fucking casket over, for Chrissakes!
randal		I was just leaning on it! It was an accident!
dante		Does anyone ever knock over a casket on purpose?
randal		So the casket fell over! Big deal!
dante		Her fucking body fell out!
randal		So they'll put her back in! It's not like it's gonna matter if she breaks something!
dante		 Just...go! Go open the video store.
randal		 Shut the fuck up, junkie!
dante		 Go open the video store.
jay		Yeah, you cock-smoking clerk.
dante		 How many times I gotta tell you not to deal outside the store.
jay		I'm not dealing.
kid		You got anything, man?
jay		Yeah, what do you want?
impatient customer		 Hey, did you see a set of keys lying around here somewhere?
randal		Let me borrow your car.
dante		I don't want to talk to you.
randal		Fine. Just lend me your car.
dante		Why should I loan you my car?
randal		I want to rent a movie.
dante		 You want to rent a movie.
randal		What's that for?
dante		You work in a video store!
randal		I work in a shitty video store. I want to go to a good video store so I can rent a good movie.
customer		Are you open?
customer		Pack of cigarettes.  Cute cat. What's its name?
randal		Annoying Customer.
dante		Can you imagine being halfway decent to the customers at least some of the time?
randal		Let me borrow your car.
dante		 May I be blunt with you?
randal		If you must.
dante		We are employees of Quick Stop Convenience and RST video, respectively. As such, we have certain responsibilities which- though it may seem cruel and unusual-does include manning our posts until closing.
randal		I see. So playing hockey and attending wakes-these practices are standard operating procedure.
dante		There's a difference. Those were obligations. Obligations that could not have been met at any later date. Now renting videos-that's just gratuitous, not to mention illogical, considering you work in a video store.
customer		Are you open?
dante		 Yes.
randal		You know what? I don't think I care for you rationale.
dante		It's going to have to do for now, considering that it's my car that's up for request.  Can I help you?
customer		Pack of cigarettes.
randal		What's your point?
dante		My point is that you're a clerk, paid to do a job. You can't just do anything you want while you're working.
customer		 They print any kind of shit in these papers.
dante		They certainly do. Two fifty-five.
randal		So your argument is that title dictates behavior?
dante		What?
randal		The reasons you won't let me borrow your care is because I have a title and a job description, and I'm supposed to follow it, right?
dante		Exactly.
randal		 So I'm no more responsible for my own decisions while I'm here at work than, say, the Death Squad soldiers in Bosnia?
dante		That's stretching it. You're not being asked to slay children or anything.
randal		Not yet. 
customer		 And I remember this one time the damn paper said...
customer		I'M GONNA BREAK YOUR FUCKING HEAD! YOU FUCKING JERKOFF!
dante		Sir! Sir, I'm sorry! He didn't mean it! He was trying to get me.
customer		Well, he missed!
dante		I know. I'm sorry. Let me refund your cigarette money, and we'll call it even.
customer		 And if I ever see you again, I'm gonna break your fucking head open!
dante		 What the fuck did you do that for?
randal		Two reasons: one, I hate when the people can't shut up about the stupid tabloid headlines.
dante		Jesus!
randal		And two, to make a point: title does not dictate behavior.
dante		What?
randal		If title dictated my behavior, as a clerk serving the public, I wouldn't be allowed to spit a mouthful of water at that guy. But I did, so my point is that people dictate their own behavior. Hence, even though I'm a clerk in this video store, I choose to go rent videos at Big Choice.  Agreed?
dante		 You're a danger to both the dead and the living.
randal		I like to think I'm a master of my own destiny.
dante		Please, get the hell out of here.
randal		I know I'm your hero.
trainer		Sounds to me like somebody needs to hit the gym.
dante		Excuse me?
trainer		I heard you strain when you put the milk in the bag. That milk only weighs about seven pounds.
dante		I didn't strain. I sighed.
trainer		I don't think so. That was a grunt; a deep inhalation of oxygen to aid in the stretching of muscles. I'm a trainer. I know what that sound signifies: you're out of shape.
dante		I don't think so.
trainer		Oh, I do. You made the same noise when you reached across the counter for my cash. Your muscles are thin and sadly underutilized.
dante		They are not.
trainer		Yes, they are. You're out of shape.
dante		What are you talking about? There's no fat on this body.
trainer		No fat, but no tone either. You don't get enough exercise.
heather		Are you open?
dante		Yes.
heather		 Just the paper.
dante		 Thirty-fire.
trainer		 Let me ask you a question: Do you think this guy's out of shape?
heather		 I don't know. I can't really tell from here.
trainer		He is.
dante		I am not.
trainer		How much can you bench?
dante		I don't know.
heather		 I'd say about sixty, seventy-tops.
dante		I know I can bench more than that!
trainer		I think the lady called it.
heather		My ex-boyfriend was about his height, but he was much bulkier. He could bench two-fifty, three hundred easy.
trainer		I do about three-fifty, four.
heather		No way!
trainer		 Feel that.
heather		That's tight. Solid.
trainer		Now feel his.  Roll up your sleeve, chief.
dante		Oh for God's sake!
trainer		See? You're ashamed. You know you're out of shape. Take my card. I can help you tone that body up in no time. Get you on an aerobics and free-weights program.
suited man		You open?
dante		 I'm not out of shape.
suited man		Excuse me, but have you been here all day?
dante		What?
heather		 He's got those love handles.
dante		 I don't have love handles.
suited man		Were you working here at about four o'clock?
dante		I've been here since six o'clock this morning. Why?
trainer		 It's probably from being around all this food every day.
heather		Oh, I know. If I had to work here all day, I'd be bloated and out of shape, too.
dante		I'm not out of shape!
suited man		Can I have your name please?
dante		Dante Hicks. Why? What is this about?
heather		You're Dante Hicks? Oh my God! I didn't even recognize you!
trainer		Because he's out of shape.
dante		Do I know you?
heather		You remember Alyssa Jones? She hung out with...
dante		Caitlin Bree. Yeah?
heather		I'm her sister.
dante		You're Alyssa's sister? Heather?
heather		Yep. I remember you got caught in my parents' room with Caitlin once.
trainer		Did you say Caitlin Bree?
dante		Yeah.
trainer		Pretty girl, about this girl's height-dark hair-gorgeous body?
dante		Yeah?
trainer		And your name is Dante Hicks? You went to high school with her? You played hockey?
dante		How do you know that?
trainer		Oh man! Hey, you still going out with her?
dante		No, she's getting married.
trainer		To you?
heather		To an Asian design major.
trainer		Shit!  Don't take this the wrong way, but I used to fuck her.
dante		What?
trainer		While you two were dating in high school. We're talking four, five years ago, back when I drove a Trans-Am.
heather		Oh my God! You're Rick Derris?
trainer		Yeah!
dante		You know him?
heather		Caitlin used to talk about him all the time.
trainer		Really?
heather		Oh yeah. You were the built older guy with the black Trans and the big...
dante		Wait a second!  You used to sleep with Caitlin Bree? While I was dating her?
trainer		All the time. That girl was like a rabbit.
dante		I...I don't believe this...
heather		 I still remember Caitlin telling us about that time you two went to that motel-the one with the mirrors and the hot tub in the room.
dante		THE GLADES MOTEL?
trainer		Holy shit! She told you about that!  Buddy of mine worked there. Said he watched the whole thing. They used to film people at that hotel; nobody knew about it.
heather		She said one time you set up a tent on the beach and you guys did it in the middle of this big rainstorm.
dante		What? When? When did all this shit happen?
trainer		Hey man, that was a long time ago. Don't let it get to you.
heather		I'm surprised you never found out about it, Dante. Everybody in school knew-even in my class.
dante		Jesus Christ, what next?
suited man		Here you go.
dante		What's this?
suited man		A fine, for five hundred dollars.
dante		WHAT?
trainer		Five hundred bucks? What for?
suited man		For violation of New Jersey Statute Section Two A, number one-seventy slash fifty-one: Any person who sells or makes available tobacco or tobacco-related products to persons under the age of eighteen is regarded as disorderly.
dante		What are you talking about?
suited man		According to the NJAC-the New Jersey Administrative Code, section eighteen, five, slash twelve point five-a fine of no less than two hundred and fifty dollars is to be leveled against any person reported selling cigarettes to a minor.
dante		I didn't do that!
suited man		You said you were here all day?
dante		Yeah, but I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids!
suited man		An angry mother called the state division of taxation and complained that the man working at Quick Stop Convenience sold her five-year-old daughter cigarettes today at around four o'clock. Division of taxation calls the State Board of Health, and they send me down here to issue a fine. You say you were working all day, hence the fine is yours. It's doubled due to the incredibly young age of the child.
dante		But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kid!
trainer		To a five-year-old kid? What a scumbag!
heather		That's sick, Dante.
dante		I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! I swear!
suited man		The due date is on the bottom. This summons cannot be contested in any court of law. Failure to remit before the due date will result in a charge of criminal negligence, and a warrant will be issued for your arrest. Have a nice day.
dante		But I didn't sell cigarettes to any kids! Hey!
trainer		 Can I offer you a ride somewhere?
heather		Sure. How about the beach?
trainer		I like the way you think.
dante		Jesus! What next?
dante		What?
dante		Caitlin?
jay		That's the price, my brother.
john		Yo, I don't have that kind of cash.
jay		For this kind of hash, you need that kind of cash.
john		How long you gonna be here?
jay		Till ten. Then I'm going to John K's party.
john		You're gonna be at John K's party?
jay		 Neh.
john		Yo, don't sell all that. 'Cause I'm gonna get the cash and buy it from you at John K's. You're gonna bring it, right?
jay		The only place I don't bring my drugs is church. And that ain't till Sunday morning.
john		Yo. I'll see you at that party.  I'll see you there?
jay		 I'll see you there.
jay		It's motherfuckers like that who give recreational drug users a bag name.  HEY BABY! YOU EVER HAD YOUR ASSHOLE LICKED?
dante		When did you get back?
caitlin		Just now.
dante		My God. I haven't seen you since... 
caitlin		Dante. You've got a customer.
caitlin		I just saw Alyssa's little sister outside. She was with Rick Derris.
dante		Let's not talk about that. How'd you get home?
caitlin		Train. It took eight hours.
dante		I can't believe you're here.
customer		Excuse me, do you have...
dante		 How long are you staying?
caitlin		Until Monday. Then I have to take the train back.
customer		Pack of cigarettes.  She's marrying an Asian design major.
dante		So I'm told.
jay		Man, it's fucking slow.
caitlin		You're just going to lock the store like that?
dante		I want to talk to you about something, and I don't want to be disturbed.
caitlin		You saw it?
dante		Very dramatic, I thought.
caitlin		It's not what you think.
dante		What, it's worse? You're pregnant with an Asian design major's child?
caitlin		I'm not pregnant.
dante		Were you going to tell me or just send me an invitation?
caitlin		I was going to tell you. But then we were getting along so well, I didn't want to mess it up.
dante		You could've broke it to me gently, you know; at least started by telling me you had a boyfriend. I told you I have a girlfriend.
caitlin		I know, I'm sorry. But when we started talking...it's like I forgot I had a boyfriend. And then he proposed last month...
dante		And you said yes?
caitlin		Well...kind of, sort of?
dante		Is that what they teach you at that school of yours? Kind of, sort of? Everyone knows about this except me! Do you know how humiliating that is?
caitlin		I would've told you, and you would have stopped calling, like a baby.
dante		How do you know that?
caitlin		Because I know you. You prefer drastic measures to rational ones.
dante		So you're really getting married?
caitlin		No.
dante		No, you're not really getting married?
caitlin		The story goes like this: He proposed, and I told him I had to think about it, and he insisted I wear the ring anyway. Then my mother told the paper we were engaged.
dante		How like her.
caitlin		Then my mother called me this morning and told me the announcement was in the paper. That's when I hopped the train to come back here, because I knew you'd be a wreck.
dante		Thanks for the vote of confidence.
caitlin		Was I right?
dante		Wreck is a harsh term. Disturbed is more like it. Mildly disturbed even.
caitlin		I love a macho faade. It's such a turn-on.  What smells like shoe polish?
dante		And you came here to what? To comfort me?
caitlin		The last thing I needed was for you to think I was hiding something from you.
dante		But you were.
caitlin		No, I wasn't. Not really. I told you'd I'd been seeing other people.
dante		Yeah, but not seriously. Christ, you're ready to walk down the aisle-I'd say that constitutes something more than just seeing somebody.
caitlin		I'm giving him his ring back.
dante		What?
caitlin		I don't want to marry him. I don't want to get married now. I'm on the verge of graduation. I want to go to grad school after this. And then I want to start a career. I don't want to be a wife first, and then have to worry about when I'' going to fit in all of the other stuff. I've come way too far and studied too hard to let my education go to waste as a housewife. And I know that's what I'd become. Sang's already signed with a major firm, and he's going to be pulling a huge salary, which would give me no reason to work, and he's so traditional anyway...
dante		Sang? His name is a past tense?
caitlin		Stop it. He's a nice guy.
dante		If he's so nice, why aren't you going to marry him?
caitlin		I just told you.
dante		There's more, isn't there?
caitlin		Why, Mr. Hicks-whatever do you mean?
dante		Tell me I don't have something to do with it.
caitlin		You don't have anything to do with it.
dante		You lie.
caitlin		Look how full of yourself you are.
dante		I just believe in giving credit where credit is due. And I believe that I'm the impetus behind your failure to wed.
caitlin		If I'm so nuts about you, then why am I having sex with an Asian design major?
dante		Jesus, you're caustic.
caitlin		I had to bring you down from that cloud you were floating on. When I say I don't want to get married, I mean just that. I don't want to marry anybody. Not for years.
dante		So who's asking? I don't want to marry you.
caitlin		Good. Stay in that frame of mind.
dante		Buy can we date?
caitlin		I'm sure Sang and-Veronica?-would like that.
dante		We could introduce them. They might hit it off.
caitlin		You're serious. You want to date again.
dante		I would like to be your boyfriend, yes.
caitlin		It's just the shock of seeing me after three years. Believe me, you'll get over it.
dante		Give me a bit more credit. I think it's time we got back together, you know. I'm more mature, you're more mature, you're finishing college, I'm already in the job market...
caitlin		You work in a market, all right.
dante		Cute. Tell me you wouldn't want to go out again. After all the talking we've been doing.
caitlin		The key word here is talk, Dante. I think the idea, the conception of us dating is more idyllic than what actually happens when we date.
dante		So...what? So we should just make pretend over the phone that we're dating?
caitlin		I don't know. Maybe we should just see what happens.
dante		Let me take you out tonight.
caitlin		You mean, on a date?
dante		Yes. A real date. Dinner and a movie.
caitlin		The Dante Hicks Dinner and a Movie Date. I think I've been on that one before.
dante		You have a better suggestion?
caitlin		How about the Caitlin Bree Walk on the Boardwalk, Then Get Naked Somewhere Kind of Private Date?
dante		I hear that's a rather popular date.
caitlin		 Jerk. Here I am, throwing myself at you, succumbing to your wily charms, and you call me a slut, in so many words.
dante		What about Sing?
caitlin		Sang.
dante		Sang.
caitlin		He's not invited.
dante		He's your fianc.
caitlin		I offer you my body and you offer me semantics? He's just a boyfriend, Dante, and in case you haven't gotten the drift of why I came all the way here from Ohio, I'm about to become single again. 
dante		So what are you saying?
caitlin		You're such an asshole.
dante		I'm just kidding.
caitlin		I can already tell this isn't going to work.
dante		I'll ask Randal to close up for me- when he gets back.
caitlin		Where'd he go? I'd have thought he'd be at your side, like an obedient lapdog.
dante		He went to rent a movie, but he hasn't gotten back yet. Ah, screw it; I'll just lock the store up and leave him a note.
caitlin		You're too responsible. But no. I have to go home first. They don't even know I left school. And I should break the disengagement news to my mother, which is going to cause quite a row, considering she loves Sang.
dante		Who doesn't?
caitlin		Well, me I guess.  So, I shall take my leave of you, but I will return in a little while, at which time-yes-I would love to go for dinner and a movie with you.
dante		What happened to the walk and the nakedness?
caitlin		I'm easy, but I'm not that easy.  See you later, handsome.
dante		YES!
randal		Get to work.
dante		 Best of Both Worlds?
randal		Hermaphroditic porn. Starlets with both organs. You should see the box: Beautiful women with dicks that put mine to shame.
dante		And this is what you rented?
randal		I like to expand my horizons.
dante		I got fined for selling cigarettes to a minor.
randal		No way!
dante		Five hundred dollars.
randal		You're bullshitting.
randal		I didn't think they even enforced this.
dante		 Living proof.
randal		I thought you never sold cigarettes to kids.
dante		I don't; you did.
randal		 Really?
dante		Little girl. Maybe five years old?
randal		 Holy shit. That girl?
dante		As opposed to the hundreds of other children you let buy cigarettes whenever you work here.
randal		Then how come you got the fine?
dante		Because I'm here.
randal		 You're lying.
dante		I swear. I couldn't make this kind of hell up.
randal		Then why aren't you like screaming at me right now?
dante		Because I'm happy.
randal		You're happy?
dante		I'm happy.
randal		You're happy to get a fine?
dante		No. I'm happy because Caitlin came to see me.
randal		Now I know you're lying.
dante		I'm not. She just left.
randal		What did she say?
dante		She's not going to marry that guy. She went home to tell her mother.
randal		You're kidding.
dante		I'm not.
randal		 Wow. You've had quite an evening.
dante		She went home, she's getting ready, and we're going out.
randal		I feel so ineffectual. Is there anything I can do for you?
dante		Watch the store while I go home and change.
randal		What happened to title dictates behavior?
dante		This is my way of spitting water at life.
randal		 Hey, what about Veronica?
dante		No! Don't bring it up. I don't want to think about that now. Let me enjoy this hour of bliss. I'll think about all of that later. In the meantime, nobody mentions the V word.
randal		You're a snake.
dante		In my absence, try not to sell cigarettes to any newborns.
randal		You want me to bring the VCR over here so we can watch this?
dante		I might be leaving early to go out with Caitlin, in which case you'll have to close the store tonight.
randal		All right, but you're missing out. Chicks with dicks.
dante		 I'll read the book.
customer		Cute cat. What's his name.
randal		Peptic ulcer.
caitlin		Randal Graves-scourge of the video renter.
randal		Ladies and gentleman, Mrs. Asian Design Major herself: Caitlin Bree!
caitlin		You saw that article? God, isn't it awful? My mother sent that in.
randal		I take it she likes the guy.
caitlin		You'd think she was marrying him. What are you watching?
randal		Children's programming. What did your mom say when you told her you weren't engaged anymore?
caitlin		She said not to come home until graduation.
randal		Wow, you got thrown out? For Dante?
caitlin		What can I say? He does weird things to me.
randal		Can I watch?
caitlin		You can hold me down.
randal		Can I join in?
caitlin		You might be let down. I'm not a hermaphrodite.
randal		Few are. So what makes you think you can maintain a relationship with Dante this time around?
caitlin		A woman's intuition. Something in me says it's time to give the old boy a serious try.
randal		Wow. Hey, I was just about to order some dinner. You eat Chinese, right?
caitlin		Dick.
randal		Exactly.
caitlin		So where is he?
randal		He went home to change for the big date.
caitlin		God, isn't he great?
randal		 No, this is great.
caitlin		Can I use the bathroom?
randal		There's no light back there.
caitlin		Why aren't there any lights?
randal		Well, there are, but for some reason they stop working at five- fourteen every night.
caitlin		You're kidding.
randal		Nobody can figure it out. And the boss doesn't want to pay the electrician to fix it, because the electrician owes money to the video store.
caitlin		Such a sordid state of affair.
randal		And I'm caught in the middle-torn between my loyalty for the boss, and my desire to piss with the light on.
caitlin		I'll try to manage.
randal		Hey Caitlin...  Break his heart again this time, and I'll kill you. Nothing personal.
caitlin		You're very protective of him, Randal. You always have been.
randal		Territoriality. He was mine first.
caitlin		 Awww. That was so cute.
mother		 A pack of cigarettes.
small child		Cunt!
dante		Who eats cock?
randal		Bunch of savages in this town.  Hey, Caitlin's in the back. You might want to see if she's okay; she's been back there a long time.
dante		There's no lights back there.
randal		I told her that. She said she didn't need any. Why don't you join her, man. Make a little bathroom bam-bam.
dante		I love your sexy talk. It's so...kindergarten: Poo-poo; wee-wee.
randal		Fuck you.
caitlin		How'd you get here so fast?
dante		I left like an hour ago.
caitlin		 Do you always talk weird after you violate women?
randal		Maybe the Asian design major slipped her some opium?
dante		Could be.
caitlin		 Promise me it'll always be like that.
dante		Like what?
caitlin		When you just lie perfectly still and let me do everything.
dante		Um...okay.
randal		Am I missing something here?
caitlin		I went back there, and Dante was already waiting for me.
randal		He was?
caitlin		It was so cool. He didn't say a word. He was just...ready, you know? And we didn't kiss or talk or anything. He just sat there and let me do all the work.
randal		 You dog! I didn't see you go back there.
caitlin		And the fact that there weren't any lights made it so...  God! That was so great!
dante		 It wasn't me.
caitlin		 Yeah, right. Who was it: Randal?
dante		 Was it you?
randal		I was here the whole time.
caitlin		 You two better quit it.
dante		I'm serious.
caitlin		 We didn't just have sex in the bathroom?
dante		No.
caitlin		Stop this. This isn't funny.
dante		I'm not kidding. I just got back from outside.
caitlin		 This isn't fucking funny, Dante!
dante		I'm not fooling around!  Who went back there?
randal		Nobody! I swear!
caitlin		I feel nauseous.
dante		Are you sure somebody was back there?
caitlin		 I didn't just fuck myself! Jesus, I'm going to be sick!
randal		You just fucked a total stranger?
dante		Shut the fuck up!
caitlin		I can't believe this! I feel faint...
dante		 Call the police.
randal		Why?
caitlin		No, don't!
dante		There's a strange man in our bathroom, and he just raped Caitlin!
caitlin		 Oh God...
randal		She said she did all the work.
dante		WOULD YOU SHUT THE FUCK UP?  WHO THE FUCK IS IN THE BATHROOM?
dante		I don't know. He just came in and asked to use the bathroom.
coroner		What time was this?
dante		Um...I don't know.  What time did hockey end?
randal		Around three or something.
dante		What time did we go to the funeral?
randal		I think four.
coroner		Wait a second? Who was working here today?
dante		Just me.
coroner		I thought you just said you played hockey and went to a funeral.
dante		We did.
coroner		Then who operated the store?
dante		Nobody. It was closed.
coroner		With this guy locked in?
dante		Everything happened at once. I guess I forgot he was back there.
attendant 1		Can we take this now?
coroner		Go ahead.
dante		Was he alive when...Caitlin...
coroner		No. I place the time of death at about three-twenty.
randal		Then how could she...you know...
coroner		The body can maintain an erection after expiration. Sometimes for hours. Did he have the adult magazine when he came in?
dante		No. I gave it to him.
dante		Well he asked me for it!
coroner		 Something smells like shoe polish.
randal		 This has gotta be the weirdest thing you've ever been called in on.
coroner		 Actually, I once had to tag a kid that broke his neck trying to put his mouth on his penis.
dante		What about Caitlin?
coroner		Shock trauma. She's going to need years of therapy after this. My question is, How did she come to have sex with the dead man?
dante		She thought it was me.
coroner		What kind of convenience store do you run here?
randal		 Do you think he was talking about my cousin?
jay		I knew one of those motherfuckers was gonna kill somebody one day.
randal		Salsa shark.
randal		 "We're gonna need a bigger boat."
randal		 "Man goes into the cage; cage goes into the salsa; shark's in the salsa; our shark."
randal		 What? What's with you? You haven't said anything for like twenty minutes. What the hell is your problem?
dante		This life.
randal		This life?
dante		Why do I have this life?
randal		Have some chips; you'll feel better.
dante		I'm stuck in this pit, earning less than slave wages, working on my day off, dealing with every backward fuck on the planet, the goddam steel shutters are locked all day, I smell like shoe polish, I've got an ex-girlfriend who's catatonic after fucking a dead guy, and my present girlfriend has sucked thirty-six dicks.
randal		Thirty-seven.
dante		My life is in the shitter right about now, so if you don't mind, I'd like to stew a bit.
randal		Yeah.
dante		I was born.
randal		You should shit or get off the pot.
dante		I should shit or get off the pot.
randal		Yeah, you should shit or get off the pot.
dante		What are you talking about?
randal		I'm talking about this thing you have...this inability to improve your situation in life.
dante		Fuck you.
randal		It's true. You'll sit there and blame life for dealing a cruddy hand, never once accepting the responsibility for the way your situation is.
dante		What responsibility?
randal		All right, if you hate this job and the people, and the fact that you have to come in on your day off, then quit.
dante		As if it's that easy.
randal		It is. You just up and quit. There are other jobs, and they pay better money. You're bound to be qualified for at least one of them. So what's stopping you?
dante		Leave me alone.
randal		You're comfortable. This is a life of convenience for you, and any attempt to change it would shatter the pathetic microcosm you've fashioned for yourself.
dante		Oh, like your life's any better?
randal		I'm satisfied with my situation for now. You don't hear me bitching. You, on the other hand, have been bitching all day.
dante		Thank you. Why don't you go back to the video store?
randal		It's the same thing with Veronica.
dante		Leave her out of this.
randal		You date Veronica because she's low maintenance and because it's convenient. Meanwhile, all you ever do is talk about Caitlin. You carry a torch for a girl you dated in high school-in high school for God's sake! You're twenty-two!
dante		Leave me alone.
randal		If you want Caitlin, then face Veronica, tell her, and be with Caitlin. If you want Veronica, be with Veronica. But don't pine for one and fuck the other. Man, if you weren't such a fucking coward...
dante		...If I wasn't such a fucking coward.  It must be so great to be able to simplify everything the way you do.
randal		Am I right or what?
dante		You're wrong. Things happened today, okay? Things that probably ruined my chances with Caitlin.
randal		What? The dead guy? She'll get over fucking the dead guy. Shit, my mom's been fucking a dead guy for thirty years; I call him Dad.
dante		Caitlin and I can't be together. It's impossible.
randal		Melodrama coming from you seems about as natural as an oral bowel movement.
dante		What do you want me to say? Yes, I suppose some of the things you're saying may be true. But that's the way things are; it's not going to change.
randal		Make them change.
dante		I can't, all right! Jesus, would you leave me alone? I can't make changes like that in my life. If I could, I would-but I don't have the ability to risk comfortable situations on the big money and the fabulous prizes.
randal		Who're you kidding? You can so.
dante		Jesus H. Christ, I can't!
randal		So you'll continue being miserable all the time, just because you don't have the guts to face change?
dante		 My mother told me once that when I as three, my potty lid was closed, and instead of lifting it, I chose to shit my pants.
randal		Lovely story.
dante		Point is-I'm not the kind of person that disrupts things in order to shit comfortably.
jay		 A pack of wraps, my good man. It's time to kick back, drink some beers, and smoke some weed!
dante		Done poisoning the youth for the day?
jay		Hell yes, whatever that means. Now I'm gonna head over to Atlantic, drink some beers, get ripped, and- please God-get laid.  E-Z Wider, one-and-a-halfs.
dante		One seventy-nine.
jay		 Don't you close soon?
dante		A half hour.
jay		We get off about the same time every night. We should hang out. You get high?
dante		I should start.
jay		Wanna come to this party tonight? There's gonna be some pussy there, man!
dante		With you? I don't think so.
jay		Listen to you. Oh shit. "Oh, I don't hang out with drug dealers."
dante		Nothing personal.
jay		I work, just like you. You're more of a crook than I am, dude.
dante		How do you figure...HEY! You can't roll a joint in here!
jay		 Relax brother. What I mean is that you sell the stuff in this store at the highest prices around. A dollar seventy-nine for wraps-what's that shit?
dante		It's not my store.
jay		And these aren't my drugs-I just sell them.
dante		The difference is you exploit a weakness.
jay		What's that mean?
dante		You sell to people that can't stay away from an addiction.
jay		All right. How much is Pepsi here?
dante		A dollar sixty-nine, plus tax.
jay		At Food City it's ninety-nine cents, plus tax.
dante		So.
jay		So why do you sell it for so much more? I'll tell you why-because people come here and they're like "A dollar eighty for soda? I should get it at Food City. But I don't feel like driving there. I'll just buy it here so I don't have to drive up there." That's exploiting a weakness, too, isn't it?
dante		I can't believe you just rolled a joint in here.
jay		Hey, man, what happened with that old guy?
dante		He died in the bathroom.
jay		That's fucked up. Yo, I heard he was jerkin' off.
dante		I don't know. I wasn't watching.
jay		Probably saw that Caitlin chick. I know I felt like beatin' it when I saw her.  Come here, bitch! You like this? Is this what you want? Hunhh?
dante		Knock it off. That used to be my girlfriend.
jay		You used to go out with her?
dante		We were going to start again, I think.
jay		Don't you already have a girlfriend?
dante		Veronica.
jay		Is she that girl who's down here all the time? She came here today carrying a plate of food.
dante		Lasagne.
jay		And what-you were gonna dump her to date that Caitlin chick?
dante		Maybe.
jay		I don't know dude. That Caitlin chick's nice. But I see that Veronica girl doing shit for you all the time. She brings you food, she rubs your back...Didn't I see her change your tire one day?
dante		I jacked the car up. All she did was loosen the nuts and put the tire on.
jay		Damn. She sure goes out of her way.
dante		She's my girlfriend.
jay		I've had girlfriends, but all they wanted from me was weed and shit.  Shit, my grandma used to say, "Which is better: a good plate with nothing on it..." No, wait. I fucked up. She said "What's a good- looking plate with nothing on it?"
dante		Meaning?
jay		I don't know. She was senile and shit. Used to piss herself all the time. C'mon Silent Bob.
silent bob		You know, there's a million fine- looking women in the world, but they don't all bring you lasagne at work. Most of them just cheat on you.
dante		 He's right. I love her.
randal		So that's it. He doesn't love you anymore. He loves Caitlin.
veronica		And...he told you all of this?
randal		Pretty much. All except the latent homosexuality part-that's just my theory.
veronica		I...I don't know what to say.
randal		Don't hold it against him. He just never got Caitlin out of his system. It's not your fault. It's Dante.  I don't know thing one about chicks. Do you want to cry or something? I can leave.
veronica		I'm not sad.
randal		You're not?
veronica		No, I'm more furious. I'm pissed off. I feel like he's been killing time while he tries to grow the balls to tell me how he really feels, and then he can't even do it! He has his friend do it for him!
randal		He didn't ask me to...
veronica		After all that I've done for that fuck! And he wants to be with that slut? Fine! He can have his slut!
randal		Um, do you think you can give me a lift home tonight?
veronica		 I'm going to have a word with that asshole.
randal		Wait! Veronica...I don't think...
randal		 What am I worried about? He'll probably be glad I started the ball rolling. All he ever did was complain about her anyway. I'm just looking out for his best interests. I mean, that's what a friend does, am I right? I did him a favor.
customer		 Oooh! Navy Seals!
dante		What the fuck did you do that for?
veronica		If you didn't want to go out with me anymore, why didn't you just say it? Instead, you pussyfoot around and see that slut behind my back!
dante		What're you talking about?
veronica		 You've been talking to her on the phone for weeks!
dante		It was only a few times...
veronica		And then you pull that shit this morning, freaking out because I've gone down on a couple guys!
dante		A couple...?
veronica		 I'm not the one trying to patch things up with my ex, sneaking around behind your back! And if you think that thirty-seven dicks are a lot, then just wait, mister: I'm going to put the hookers in Times Square to shame with all the guys I go down on now!
dante		Would you let me explain...
veronica		Explain what? How you were waiting until the time was right, and then you were going to dump me for her?
dante		 Veronica...I...it's not like that anymore...I mean, it was never really like that...
veronica		You're damn right it's not like that! Because I won't let it be like that! You want your slut? Fine! The slut is yours!
dante		I don't want Caitlin...
veronica		You don't know what you want, but I'm not going to sit here anymore holding your hand until you figure it out! I've encouraged you to get out of this fucking dump and go back to school, to take charge of your life and find direction. I even transferred so maybe you would be more inclined to go back to college if I was with you. Everyone said it was a stupid move, but I didn't care because I loved you and wanted to see you pull yourself out of this senseless funk you've been in since that whore dumped you, oh so many years ago. And now you want to go back to her so she can fuck you over some more?
dante		I don't want to go back with her...
veronica		Of course not; not now! You're caught, and now you're trying to snake out of doing what you wanted to do. Well, I won't let you. I want you to follow through on this, just so you can find out what a fucking idiot you are. And when she dumps you again-and she will, Dante, I promise you that-when she dumps you again, I want to laugh at you, right in your face, just so you realize that that was what you gave up our relationship for!  I'm just glad Randal had the balls to tell me, since you couldn't.
dante		 Randal...?
veronica		And having him tell me...that was just the weakest move ever. You're spineless.
dante		Veronica, I love you...
veronica		Fuck you.
randal		Dante?
randal		How's your eye?
dante		 How's your neck?
randal		It's hard to swallow.
randal		You didn't have to choke me.
dante		Why the fuck did you tell Veronica that I was going to dump her for Caitlin?
randal		I thought I was doing you a favor.
dante		Thanks.
randal		You were saying how you couldn't initiate change yourself, so I figured I'd help you out.
dante		Jesus.
randal		You still didn't have to choke me.
dante		Oh please! I'm surprised I didn't kill you.
randal		Why do you say that?
dante		Why do I say that? Randal...forget it.
randal		No, really. What did I do that was so wrong?
dante		What don't you do? Randal, sometimes it seems like the only reason you come to work is to make my life miserable.
randal		How do you figure?
dante		What time did you get to work today?
randal		Like ten after.
dante		You were over half an hour late. Then all you do is come over here.
randal		To talk to you.
dante		Which means the video store is ostensibly closed.
randal		It's not like I'm miles away.
dante		Unless you're out renting videos at other video stores.
randal		Hermaphrodites! I rented it so we could watch it together!
dante		You get my slapped with a fine, you fight with the customers and I have to patch everything up. You get us chased out of a funeral by violating a corpse. To top it all off, you ruin my relationship. What's your encore? Do you anally rape my mother while pouring sugar in my gas tank? 
randal		 You know, that guy Jay's got it right-he has no delusions about what he does. Us? We like to make ourselves seem so much better than the people that come in here, just looking to pick up a paper or-God forbid-cigarettes. We look down on them, as it we're so advanced. Well, if we're so fucking advanced, then what are we doing working here?
randal		I threw out the stuff that got broken. The floor looks clean.
dante		You need a ride?
randal		 Got one. Just pulled up.
dante		Do you work tomorrow?
randal		Same time. What about you?
dante		I'm calling out. Going to hit the hospital-see how Caitlin is. Then try to see Veronica.
randal		You wanna grab something to eat tomorrow night...after I get out of here?
dante		I'll call you. Let you know.
randal		All right. Good luck with Veronica. If you want, I can talk to her, you know, and explain...
dante		No thanks. I'll take care of it. We've got a lot of shit to talk about.
randal		Helluva day.
dante		To say the least.
randal		Do you need a hug or something? 'Cause I would have no hang-ups about hugging you...you know, you being a guy and all. Just don't knead my ass when you do it.
dante		Get the fuck outta here already.
randal		I'm gone. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
randal		You're closed.
dante		What'd you forget something?  Oh. I'm sorry, we're closed.
customer		Hello? Little help?
****Dialogues from script :Cliffhanger.txt****

frank		Wait a minute -- there's Hal.  And his date.
maggie		How do they look?
hal		Excuse me -- I know you're my salvation, and all -- do you think you could rescue us before your smoke break?
gabe		Maybe you could tell me why I am rescuing you.
hal		Basically -- I've fallen down, and I can't get up...
gabe		 Rescue One -- have located helpless climber, please prepare idiot line for transport, over --
hal		Rescue One -- please remind me to tell you about the time I hauled your hero here down Mt. Huntington on my back, over --
gabe		 This guy showing you a good time?
gabe		Now, remember -- keep your arms and legs within the vehicle at all times --
hal		 Fuck you --
gabe		Ready?  Did he tell you about the time he almost made it up Everest?
susan		He said you gave him a bad oxygen mask --
gabe		Well, if he's bored you with that bullshit, then this has to be the best part of a bad date. Right?
gabe		Ready?
susan		 Okay --
susan		I can't --
gabe		Yes you can.  You can do it. Don't look down.  The whole way across, don't look down. Look at me. Just keep looking at me -- and you'll be okay.
gabe		Sure?
susan		Yeah.  I have always depended on the kindness of Rangers.
gabe		 Hold on. I'm coming out to get you.
gabe		Keep looking at me. Hold on --
stewardess		Take this.  Afraid of flying?
gabe		Falling.
rental agent		Midsize?
gabe		Any size, any color, any model.
rental agent		How long will you be needing it?
gabe		 Just under six hours.
maggie		I knew you'd be coming by. Today.
maggie		If you're in that much of a hurry, why don't you ride with me?
gabe		This is new...
maggie		It's a thermal scope -- picks up body heat of lost hikers --
gabe		Still find the dead ones the old fashioned way, I guess.
maggie		You could have said goodbye.
gabe		 If I did, I'd have to listen to you tell me one more time that it wasn't my fault.
maggie		 You did everything right --
gabe		-- If I did everything right, Susan Collins would still be alive.
gabe		Do you really believe all that?  That it wasn't our fault?
maggie		 Yes. Yes, I do.
gabe		I'm not sure what I wish more, Maggie. That you meant what you said, just now -- or that it were really true then.
hal		Maggie, where the hell have you been? I've got two climbers out --
hal		Brett and Evan are up there again to jump off the spur. Their wives called twice. I want you in the air and I want them found before the storm system moves in.  Now.
gabe		Christ. You're in charge of Rescue now?
hal		There was a vacancy. Maybe you heard about it. The last guy lost his nerve and lit out of town.
gabe		Well, you're a better man than I am, Hal. Nothing rattles you.
frank		 Gabe! Long time, son -- why don't you come meet some of the new guys --
gabe		Good idea. Say, Hal?  Why don't you come with me so we can show these rookies how to death-rig a woman properly?
hal		Take the Bronco to where you're going. I've already been. Then go back to wherever it is you like to hide. And stay there.
travers		Tell Wright the San Francisco shipment is ready.
david		 Right away, Mr. Travers.
wright		 Good -- good. I'll be right down.
matheson		Walter Wright?  Matheson. FBI. We need to talk.
pilot		We'll be fueled and ready in ten minutes, Mr. Travers.
travers		 Be ready in five.
matheson		 Matheson. FBI.
travers		 What the fuck is this about?
wright		Small problem with the shipment, Travers.  Tell him what you just told me.
matheson		We got word that somebody's been observing your currency shipments -- this load, the $5,000s -- over the last three deliveries.
travers		 This is the most protected shipment we've got -- and the most useless for a thief. Those bills aren't in circulation. You think five thousand dollar bills are easy to pass? Who the fuck would try?
matheson		This guy might.
travers		Who is he?
mathers		 His name's Eric Qualen. One of the East German spies who got shut out by the reunification. The CIA issued an inter-agency warning about him right after the wall came down. He's got nowhere to go and nothing to lose. He's also got the international connections to get rid of bills like these -- and he's probably desperate enough to try for them. Fifty million bucks buys a lot of sanctuary.
travers		Could you get to the part where I'm supposed to care?
matheson		 We had two agents monitoring him. These two -- Gleason and Quinones. Their last report said he was going to try to take this shipment.
travers		 Thanks for the tip. But I've got work to do.
matheson		 Did I say "last" report? I think I did. I mean last fucking report. These guys have vanished.
travers		You have my sympathy, but --  There's a reason we do things this way, all right? Armored cars can be hijacked. Trains can be derailed. But nobody can get to us in flight. The only time this is on the ground is at the mint, or on the Presidio runway in San Francisco. Either way, someone would have to shoot his way past a couple of thousand guards.
travers		If you're worried about an inside job, forget it. I checked the plane from top to bottom an hour ago. And these three are my best against. Even if one of them did go skydiving, they wouldn't get far. Each case has an electronic tracer with a range of one hundred miles.
travers		 I haven't lost a bill in eight years. And I'm not scrubbing this shipment because you scare easily.
matheson		 I've been tracking Qualen for almost a year. If he pulls something, I want to be in on the party.
wright		This is cleared from the top, Travers. Matheson will accompany you on the flight to San Francisco.  Show him every professional courtesy.
maggie		Rescue One to base, over.
maggie		Negative, Hal -- storm's already moving in -- I can't see them, and winds are too strong to stay up here -- over --
maggie		I don't think he's planning a long visit, Hal.  Rescue One heading back to base, over and out.
evan		 Way to check the weather, Brett.
brett		 Hey. If it were easy, it wouldn't be worth d-doing.
agent		Just enjoy the view, huh?  Relax. I mean, what could happen in the air?
travers		 Stay put! Don't panic, goddammit!
pilot		He's coming in too slow.
travers		 No -- we're going too fast, and we're too high up. Push flaps forward twenty degrees and drop to five thousand feet.
matheson		 You got any rifles?
agent		Forward compartment -- left side --
travers		What the hell are you doing --
matheson		Checked the plane from top to bottom, huh? You fucker --  Put your hands behind your head! It's over!
travers		Calm down -- give the gun to me --
matheson		 There's a couple of dead bodies in the front compartment -- they're FBI agents --
travers		He's losing it --
matheson		Goddamn it! Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the fucking shipment!  Don't make me shoot you!
travers		Don't make me laugh.
travers		 Move into position.
travers		 More -- more -- keep it coming --
travers		 Locked on. Move into lateral position.
kristel		Moving into lateral position.
pilot		We're right on the edge of the storm -- let's move it.
pilot		This isn't going to work -- Wright will suspect something.
travers		So what. He'll sift though a plane that went down in a storm --  -- and just enough of the right kind of ash.
travers		We get twenty-one gun funerals and they write off fifty million. It's perfect, as long as you hold the plane steady -- so concentrate.
qualen		 Travers -- hurry it up.
travers		 On my way.
travers		That charge is going to blow both engines -- the plane'll go down like a rock, so clip yourself on to the end of the cable with the money as soon as I get over.  And make sure you bring the right cases.
travers		 Dip the plane. I'm coming over.
qualen		 Why didn't you send the money over?
travers		 Somehow, I didn't think you'd have waited for me if I'd sent it first.
travers		 Get underneath the jet! The cases will slide over!
travers		 Lower! Get underneath it!
kristel		It's dragging us down! Disconnect the cable!
kristel		So much for phase one.  Now what?
travers		Now -- we call the police.
hal		Look -- I know there's a storm, but that wasn't thunder.
frank		 Hal, when you've been in this line as long as I have --
hal		Rocky Mountain Rescue -- come in, mayday --
kristel		Downed charter flight alpha-charlie-niner--  -- dead, seven seriously wounded, acknowledge --
hal		Acknowledged, mayday. What's your position?
hal		Got to be Comb Bluff.  Acknowledged, mayday. Winds are too strong for us to get a copter up there -- can you and your passengers make it through the storm? Over --
kristel (o.s.		Negative -- cockpit is on fire -- fuselage broken into three sep--  --ed in shock.  Need medical supplies, including insulin, repeat, insulin, as soon as po --
hal		Mayday -- come in, mayday --
qualen		Not bad. The insulin was a nice touch.
gabe		Maggie?
maggie		Hey there --
gabe		Hi.  Could you introduce us?
maggie		Sure. Gabe Walker -- this is A27. A27 -- Gabe.
gabe		Not the tag -- what do you call him?
maggie		Her. I call her Lucky.
gabe		 Bastards...
maggie		They got the mother -- and left this one behind. Too small to make a decent trophy, I guess.
gabe		About four months, right?  Christ -- it must have been just about his -- I mean her -- first flight --
maggie		Time to change the dressing.
gabe		You can't do that alone --
maggie		I've had to learn. She trust me --
gabe		I'm making her nervous --  You hold her, I'll do the dressing.
gabe		Got some fight in her -- that's good.  What happened to Dave?
maggie		The usual. Flew off -- never calls, never writes --
maggie		I'm glad to see you, Gabe. But I kind of wish you hadn't come. I was almost used to you being gone.  Why are you here?
gabe		 I didn't realize it till I saw you at the airport. But I came back for you, Maggie.
maggie		Does that mean you're going to stay?
gabe		No. Not here.  I want you come with me. Start over, somewhere else.
maggie		 You don't live here any more, Gabe. Your choice, remember? But this is my home. I'm not leaving. You can stay with me, or you can go alone. It's still your choice.
gabe		What the hell do you want?
hal		 I need your help. A plane's gone down on Comb Bluff. This storm would blow a copter all over the place -- but we can climb up to it.
gabe		"We"?  Talk to somebody who's still on the payroll. You've got a half dozen new guys --
hal		-- who couldn't climb that wall now if there were stairs cut into it. But you've soloed it.
gabe		During the summer. On a bet.
hal		This is a little more important than a bet. Just a few injured people with no first aid or shelter, camping in a zero degree blizzard. They'll be ice sculptures by tomorrow morning.
gabe		 Fuck this one up on your own.
hal		Play it again, Gabe, about how we killed her. I was there too, remember?
gabe		 Not like I was, pal -- her fingers brushed mine on the way down --
hal		 We lost her. Whatever anybody says about cold stress and the clip, you and I have to live with that. But right now, there are some more people who need our help, and they shouldn't die too just because you've got a problem keeping the past in the past.
gabe		I don't want the responsibility.
hal		Walk away and you are responsible. They'll die. I can't do this alone.  You know what else, Gabe? You can go anywhere you want, but if you don't do this, now, you're going to be stuck on that goddamn ledge for the rest of your life.
hal		 That thing's dead weight. Completely useless for an ice climb.
gabe		Just backup.
gabe		 I'll lead. I left a few bolts last time I climbed this -- I think I can find some of them.
hal		Save the rope for when it gets tough.  That bet was for you to free climb the wall.
gabe		 Tell you what, Hal -- if we're still alive tomorrow morning, I'll give you the twenty bucks back, okay?
gabe		 Anchored!
gabe		 Rockslide!
gabe		 Anchored!
hal		 You're sure this time --
hal		 Don't say it --
gabe		 It's kind of hard to resist --
travers		 Good. Return to the plane and cover your tracks.
qualen		 Get ready.
gabe		Come on -- the hard part's over.
hal		 That's it.
gabe		I thought the fuselage was broken. That looks pretty cozy.
hal		 The pilot was hysterical.
gabe		Something's wrong here --
hal		Does this look like a prank to you? Come on --
hal		Relax -- we're here to help --
hal		Don't try to talk --
travers		 Where?
hal		-- Where? What are you --
travers		You said "we". Where are the rest?
travers		What's for dinner?  Try and make this edible.
travers		Hal Tucker.  Where's yours?
qualen		He doesn't have one. Just a wallet.
travers		Gabe Walker...  Very attractive.
gabe		My ex.
travers		Too bad. Let me tell you what's on for today. We'd like you to help settle a wager. You see, we lost some luggage --
travers		 Now tell me -- who wins?
travers		Good dog. Now let's get this expedition started.
travers		Okay. Connect the dots.
gabe		This way.
gabe		 We don't have to do this. We know these mountains -- they don't. If we can get ahead --
hal		Can you climb faster than they can shoot?
gabe		We've got to try something. Think we'll get a finder's fee after they get all their "luggage"?
hal		Sure. All the bullets we can eat.
gabe		That's not what really worries me.
hal		There's something else to worry about?
gabe		Yeah. Once they've got what they're after -- they're gonna need a copter to get out of here.
hal		 Maggie.
travers		Hold it.  It's up there.
travers		Fetch.
gabe		I'll need the ice axe.
travers		 You've got to be kidding.
gabe		 Okay. How about some tape?
gabe		Crampons too.
qualen		I don't trust him.
travers		 Where could he go?
qualen		I'd rather he didn't show us.  We don't need two guides.
travers		 You win. Kill him when he gets down.
gabe		Jesus.
travers		 Lower it down -- now!
travers		 Get him!
qualen		 Bring the money down, or we kill your friend!
travers		We can't.  And he knows it.
gabe		Come on --
hal		You son of a bitch --
qualen		No. We need him to get the rest of the money.  If he dies we lose everything
travers		 Get us out of here.
evan		What the hell --
evan		Brett -- you're not going to believe this -- but a couple of guys are holding a gun on Hal and forcing him up the bluff --
evan		What the fuck is going on here?
brett		Let's catch up and find out.
maggie		 Rescue Unit -- what's going on, Hall? -- over --
travers		No tricks, no procedural codes, no personal messages -- just tell them everything's under control and you're taking care of the wounded.
hal		 We've reached the wreckage -- top of Comb Bluff -- six injured, but they're responding to treatment. Everything A-OK. Over.
hal		Negative, Maggie. Winds are too high, and the passengers' injuries are all superficial. We're going to ride out the storm here -- over --
travers		Have her come up.
hal		Forget it -- downdrafts would wipe her all over the peaks --  -- Not that I expect you to give a shit, but it's our only copter. You'll be stuck.
hal		 Forget about it, Maggie, that's an order -- acknowledge --
maggie		Acknowledged. Let me talk to Gabe -- over --
travers		 -- what?
hal		The next one's on top of the peak. This'll be long, but easy -- more like a hike than a climb.
travers		 It looks like a winding route.
hal		There's a more direct route. The East Face. But it's the wall on the other side, and it's smooth as glass. Maybe a dozen guys in the world could do it in good weather. Only a psycho would try it in a snowstorm.
wright		 Okay -- I know it's not in San Francisco. I know it's not here. I know it's not in any fucking airport from here to Montana. Where it's not - we got that covered. Now, do you have any ideas on where it is?
davis		 There's no radio contact, sir. At all. We're not receiving the tracer signal from the cockpit's flight recorder. Radar lost it after it went low here.
davis		We have to assume it went down in the storm.
wright		Air search?
davis		 That storm hasn't quit yet. Weather service says we've got it until tomorrow morning at least. Even if we could get a plane up now, it'd be impossible to see anything on the ground. And --
wright		-- The roads are shut down, right?
davis		Most of this area doesn't even have roads.
wright		 Keep two copters on full standby. And let me know the second that storm starts to wind down.
gabe		 A steak soaked with Glenlivet, cooking over a steambath on fire.
gabe		 Sorry, Gordon -- I promise I'll have it back tomorrow.
hal		Come on -- tourists take this trail.
travers		Is this it?
hal		Yeah. This is it.
travers		Good. Get out of the way.
travers		 This way.
travers		 It's over here!
travers		 He can't be far away -- spread out!
travers		 Put your hands on your head.
qualen		 Follow him!
kynette		 After you.
hal		Well -- look at the bright side.  At least you've only got to make the split five ways now.
gabe		Please still be there -- oh, please --
gabe		 Mmm. Just like -- chicken.
davis		We've got a fix on the plane, sir -- we're getting a reading on the flight recorder tracer --
wright		Any visual? Any radio contact?
davis		Not yet --
wright		 Get the copters ready. We take off in three minutes.
davis		The winds are still too strong --
wright		Sorry to hear it. We're still going. The plane might be intact.
davis		Sir --
wright		Shut up. That fifty million isn't coming out of my pension.
travers		Still interested in staying alive?
hal		 It's up here. Somewhere on the Tower. There's a way to cross over to the top in about half a day.
travers		Show me.
brett		I'll cut around this side, and wind up in front. You come up behind them -- quietly. And we've got 'em.
evan		Brett -- they've got five guns --
brett		And you can collect them all after I get the drop on 'em. Let's get moving.
brett		End of the line!
brett		 You heard me! Drop the guns!
travers		"End of the line"? That's classic.  You've got style. So, I'm going to give you a three-count to figure out how to turn the safety off.
brett		Nice try. I've got one of these at home. Now drop 'em.
brett		Hey -- where's the other guy --
hal		 Brett, behind you!
travers		 Time to --
evan		What are we going to do --
hal		You came up here to jump the spur --  This'd be a great time to do it.
evan		 But --
hal		 Listen -- they don't know you're up here -- I'll draw their fire, you've got to make the jump and get help.
evan		I don't -- I -- uh --
hal		 Unless you want to do it the other way around?
kristel		Stop!
gabe		Come on -- wait till you're out of range -- don't pull it yet --
qualen		Was that Walker?
travers		No such luck.  Cheer up. Everyone should die in a spot this beautiful.
gabe		 Don't worry. You will.
frank		Maggie -- what are you doing --
maggie		I'm going to go nuts if I sit here one more hour.
frank		Still a little breezy out, Mag --
maggie		 You coming?
travers		Forget about it. He's smart, but he's not invisible.
wright		What can you confirm?
stuart		Well, sir -- it crashed. That, I can confirm.  We've been here just about one hour. These events take months to analyze. So if you'll excuse me --
wright		No, I don't think I will. The reason the FAA pays you is to exercise your vast, amazing knowledge of these "events". So I expect you to come up with some stunning insights, something a slow-witted fuck like me hasn't already observed.  And three: the flight recorder's tracer led us here in the first place. So where is the goddamn thing? That one's got me all aflush with curiosity.
stuart		 You'll be the first to know.
wright		Oh, I believe you.
travers		I thought you said there was an easy way across.
hal		There is. You might not like it much.
hal		Of course -- we'll have to do it hand over hand. Seems I forgot my harness. Sorry.
travers		Don't be. Lead on.
gabe		I didn't need to see that. I really didn't.
frank		Got 'em -- they're under the trees --
maggie		Hal! Gabe!
maggie		It's Evan.  Parachute failed.
frank		 Damn fool. Why would anybody try that in the middle of a storm.
maggie		Why would anybody try at all.  Get the bag.
gabe		Should've taken that left turn at Albequerque.
gabe		It's just like any other side move -- you can't see where the fuck you're going, that's all --
gabe		 Much better.
maggie		 Bring it down here.
frank		Maggie --
maggie		Just do it, Frank.
frank		Maggie, this is dumb --
maggie		No it isn't. I'm going to find Brett -- I don't want to have to talk to his widow too. Fly Evan's body back to base -- I'll call you when I've found Brett. Or Hal. Or Gabe. Or anybody.
kynette		 I'm going back.
travers		Look -- this part is nothing, believe me --
kynette		Walker should be coming up by now.
gabe		 So much for the easy part.
kynette		He's on the way up. I could hear that jacket before I could see it.
kynette		 I'll wait till he comes to me.
kynette		 Bulletin. The climber isn't Walker -- it's a woman.
kynette		Rotten weather for a climb, huh?  I have two questions I'd like to trouble you with. Ready?
kynette		This first one's easy. Do you know a man named Gabe Walker?
maggie		Yes.  Where is he?
kynette		You don't know either? I am sorry. That was question number two.  Thanks for your time.
gabe		Come on --
maggie		Where? --
gabe		Here.
gabe		Today, goddamit!
gabe		This way.  I like the outside of the mountain better too, but --
gabe		Stop.
maggie		We can't --
gabe		I need to stop.
gabe		 I'm glad to see you -- but Christ, I wish you hadn't come.
travers		Don't tell me --
qualen		 He's still alive.
qualen		For another two minutes.
maggie		It hurts just looking at you.
gabe		 Try it from this side. Do you still have your radio?
maggie		It's not going to work in here.
gabe		Let's give it a try.  Come in, Rescue Unit --
qualen		Patience.
gabe		Is there anybody else on the radio?
gabe		I take a year off and the department goes to hell.  -- Come in, Rescue Unit --
qualen		Try to get thirty million in entertainment out of this, because he is definitely in for thirty million worth of pain.
hal		You sick fuck --
qualen		Don't worry. They may still be alive. That was the small one.
frank		Jesus -- that's some flare.
gabe		Are you all right?
maggie		 Why are they doing this?
maggie		 We might be able to get up that way -- there's an opening --
gabe		No -- there could be another bomb up there -- even if there isn't, we could get another cave-in. The only sure way out is through the side.
davis		I've got something here.
stuart		Let's have it.
davis		There's an unconfirmed report of a distress call made from a plane that crashed.
stuart		That's really, really interesting, but --  -- kind of old news, don't you think?
davis		This call was supposedly made from a plane that crash landed. After it landed.
stuart		 Sounds like they got it wrong. Next time you interrupt my work make sure it's something I can use.
gabe		 Come on -- we're almost out.
kynette		Miss me?
qualen		 You might say a few words for your friends -- this is the one that will bury them.
travers		What happened?
qualen		I'm not sure -- I set the timer --
hal		 Gabe, it's a dud --
gabe		Move!
qualen		When I was seventeen, I was a sentry on the East Berlin boundary. There was a problem, then -- too many defectors were managing to sneak through the wilderness to the west. A man would take them through, every night of every week -- a man like your friend.  They pulled eight bodies out of the tunnel, and I was promoted to intelligence the next day.
travers		Thanks. We couldn't have killed him without you.
gabe		Knock this in the side. Make it firm.
frank		Maggie -- come in, Maggie, this is Rescue One --
travers		There's our ride out of here. Everyone out of sight -- except you, Kristel.  Make the distress call. You're so good at it.
maggie		 What are we going to do?
gabe		 Die. I'm sorry, Maggie. I'm sorry you got into this.
maggie		What are you doing?
wright		He didn't think a distress call from a crashed plane was "important"?  Get me a fucking radio! Now!
frank		 Come in, Maggie, over --
frank		 I copy, Charlie Niner -- what's your position -- over --
frank		 Sit tight, Charlie Niner -- I'm right on top of you.
maggie		 Frank! Down here! Frank!
gabe		Forget about it. He can't hear you.  Tie these together. Tight.
maggie		 -- Are you out of your mind --
gabe		This is rope from the Gordon exhibit. The way guys climbed then, they'd tie on three at a time -- this rope'll take around nine hundred pounds.
maggie		Gabe -- this rope is sixty years old --
gabe		 Yeah, they made it pretty good then. Each of these strands ought to hold about 300 pounds before snapping.
maggie		 Will it hold?
gabe		Depends on how big a breakfast you had. You want to go first?
gabe		 Swing towards it -- and drop!
frank		What the fuck --
kristel		What -- who are --
frank		Don't worry. I'm here to help.
kristel		 Glad to hear it.
frank		Jailhouse load. First chamber's empty --  -- the rest aren't. Forgive me, but things have been a little strange this morning.
traver		Stop!  You'll damage the helicopter.
travers		 Answer that.
kristel		 Rocky Mountain Rescue One, over --
stuart		This is Ross Stuart, Federal Aviation Administration -- please identify -- over --
kristel		Copy, FAA. This is Margaret Deighan, Rocky Mountain Rescue. Over --
kristel		 Copy, FAA. Distress call came at approximately eleven hundred hours yesterday. I investigated -- the call turned out to be a false alarm. Over.
stuart		Please repeat, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- distress call was a false alarm? -- over --
stuart		Not from you. Thanks, Rocky Mountain Rescue -- over and out --
stuart		I don't want to say I told you so. But I did. Can I go back to work now?
travers		I almost believed you myself.
hal		 Goodbye, Frank.
travers		Time for number three. Unless you want to have a longer conversation with him elsewhere.
hal		 Fuck off.
hal		I think I'll wait here. You just murdered three of my friends. Sooner or later, whoever's chasing you is going to show up and return the favor, and I'd love to watch.
travers		Suit yourself. You see, we just had a little interface with several branches of the federal government -- one of whose members I know has zero imagination -- and I can tell you, the cavalry just isn't going to make it by this week.  Am I right?
gabe		Are you okay?
maggie		My ears are ringing -- but I'm all right. Gabe, what's going on?
gabe		 This. That plane crash -- it's a half dozen guys who were smart enough to steal fifty million bucks, but dumb enough to drop it all over the range. They've got Hal as a bird dog -- and right now they're heading for the rest of it.
maggie		Where?
gabe		It's close to the lake -- Hal's probably leading them on the slowest possible route down to it.  I can get there first -- all I have to do is make it along the north wall to the Bitker ladder --
maggie		"All?" Jesus, Gabe -- what do you expect to do then?
gabe		 Something -- subtle.
maggie		I'm going with you.
gabe		No way. You're climbing back down -- try to get to the station or find some help.
maggie		I'm just as good a climber as you are -- and right now, I'm definitely in better shape.
gabe		 And you're definitely not going --
gabe		Okay. Come on --
gabe		-- but the second you slow me down, I'm leaving --  -- I'm leaving you behind. Understood?
maggie		 Anything you say, Gabe.
davis		We've tested the ash inside -- it's the right paper.
wright		What about the men?
davis		It's -- hard to tell. But forensics says yes. All of them were in the plane.
wright		 Especially a guy like Travers.
travers		Qualen. How far along are you?
qualen		 It looks like two miles, but --
qualen		-- it'll take some time.
qualen		 What about him?
qualen		 Agreed.
maggie		Gabe?  I'll go first.
gabe		 If I don't go first, I might not go at all.
gabe		 Think you can beat my time?
gabe		 Shit -- she is in better shape.
gabe		 Quit sandbagging it -- I haven't got all day --
gabe		That -- tears it.  You're not coming any further.
maggie		 Gabe -- you're going to get yourself killed --
gabe		 Look, Maggie. I don't know what'll happen when I catch up with Hal -- but I've got to know one thing for sure -- that you're making it off this mountain. Alive.
maggie		Okay.
gabe		Get on the trail and stay out of sight.  I'll see you on the ground.
wright		I give up. What was it?
search pilot		ID says this used to be your pilot.  And we found him seven miles east of the wreck.
wright		A hijack.  The plane was hijacked. Son of a bitch --
stuart		Oh, give me a break. Your pilot lost it when the flight started going south, and he bailed --
search pilot		Excuse me -- but there's no parachute there. Check it yourself.
forensics agent		Sir -- we found the flight recorder -- it was driven twenty feet deep into a crater. It was demolished, but we salvaged the recording --
stuart		 I've heard a thousand of these, Wright -- whoever was at the stick is going to begin by screeching the Lord's Prayer and wind up screaming "Oh, shit" at ground zero --
wright		Guess we're both right, Stuart. Thanks for your expertise.  You'll be waiting till Groundhog's Day for him to pull his head out of his ass -- let's get it in the air!
gabe		Hasn't gotten any lower in the last year.  Bitker, you cheap bastard. Would another four feet have killed you?
qualen		Almost there.
hal		Oh, no -- you didn't lose another one, did you?
delmer		What about him?
qualen		 Kill him! Now!
delmer		Tell me -- where would you like the first half dozen shots to go?
hal		 As long as you're taking requests -- how about -- the base of your spine?
qualen		 Travers. Get down here. Now.
travers		Have you found the money?
kristel		You would have lived longer, if you weren't such a smartass.
kristel		You telegraphed this kind of stunt with that joke snowman. Too bad for you we're not all gullible.
gabe		Good thing for Qualen you are.
kristel		 What do you mean?
gabe		When he comes back, he's going to shoot you and the other guy, grab the money, and take off with Travers.
kristel		 No sale. Say "night-night" --
gabe		 Am I wrong? Give him a buzz.
kristel		You've got my attention.
gabe		You've also got all the money. And I can show you how to get off the mountain with it. Right now.
travers		 He's hiding twenty yards in -- be careful.
travers		 He's right behind you!
travers		 Something's moving fast down the hill -- is it Tucker?
kristel		How much further?
gabe		 It's right over there.
gabe		It's a storage locker for the rangers. Everything you need to get off the mountain is in there -- skiis, food -- I'll show you --
kristel		Don't move.
kristel		Skiis, food -- and maybe guns too, right?  Keep walking. Not too close.
gabe		We'd make better time walking straight ahead. Qualen's not going to be hopping down the bunny trail too much longer.
kristel		 Right. So I'd better have one less problem when he arrives.
gabe		 Don't fuck up. You still need me to show you a route off the mountain.
kristel		You've worn that one out, Walker --  -- I'll find my own way down.
maggie		Frank! Down here!
travers		Hop in. I know someone who'd like to see you again before he dies.
qualen		If you were smart, you'd have left your friend behind. I would have. There's no shame in staying alive.
qualen		 But you're not smart. And now you're going to die from an overdose of heroism.
qualen		 Stalemate, isn't it?
gabe		 Not any more.
qualen		Far more intimidating when it's loaded.
hal		 I know you never liked the orange, but --
gabe		Didn't care for the Smokey The Bear hats, either. That's why I quit.  You all right?
hal		I feel better than you look. I can live with that.
gabe		Hardly seems worth zipping, huh?  Frank?
hal		It's not over, Gabe. Travers took the helicopter.
travers		 Qualen -- Kristel -- come in --
gabe		May I?  Any messages?
gabe		 Maggie --
travers		 You wanted to make a trade earlier, Walker -- still interested?
hal		Now what?
gabe		I have no fucking idea.  Empty.
hal		 Not for long.
gabe		 Why can't anything be easy?
gabe		Stay over there --
hal		Look -- let me --
gabe		-- what, throw snowballs at him? Just -- whatever happens -- get Maggie out of here.
hal		 And Gabe? Thanks for tagging along.
gabe		 Thanks for asking. I forgot how much I enjoyed rescue work.
gabe		 You won.
travers		 I'll kill her --
gabe		 No rush. I'm sure you've got lots of time.
travers		 All right. Drop the gun first.
gabe		 When she's safe on the ground.
travers		 Get out.
gabe		 Run!
gabe		 Now come and get it. My arm's getting tired.
gabe		 Don't you want to count it?
gabe		Don't spend it all in one place, you son of a bitch.
hal		He's going to run Gabe down --
gabe		Cheer up. It's a beautiful spot to die.
wright		I'm no expert -- but what do you make of that "event"?
gabe		 Forget it. No fucking way. I'm staying right here. I've spent the night on walls before -- some of the best nights of my life have been spent lashed to walls --
hal		Remember -- keep your arms and legs in the vehicle at all times --
gabe		 Fuck you --
hal		 Jesus Christ -- you think you could have put a little less effort into that climb? I mean, what have you done for me -- lately?
maggie		Does this mean you're staying?
****Dialogues from script :Clueless.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cobb.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  Do not go gentle into that good night, Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Dylan Thomas
man		lies on a couch near the window. He stands up suddenly and looks out the window. AL STUMP, 40, is sharply dressed -- tie, dress shirt, cufflinks. He's staring at something.
stump		Yes! The muse has left me stranded here like a beached whale -- only one phrase, one word, from finishing the greatest essay I've ever written! One word, the right word -- Flaubert called it 'le mot juste' -- I ever tell you that? Lucille is a longsuffering saint. LUCILLE 'Le mot juste' -- the exact right word the writer needs to tell his story. Yessir, you've mentioned it. STUMP Hemingway, Faulkner, Joyce -- they all searched for 'le mot juste' until they cried, until they bled... LUCILLE Yessir. STUMP What is this essay about again?
lucille		Fishing.
stump		I mean what is it really about? LUCILLE You said it was about the quote unquote primal issues of survival, man against nature, etcetera -- that's what you said.
stump		Ohyeah... so... we end the essay with... 
stump		 ... 'frozen in'...
stump		I need a drink. LUCILLE What about 'le mot juste,' Mr. Stump? STUMP  Fuck 'le mot juste,' Lucille! Finish the damn thing yourself. 'The primeval moment is frozen in' whatever the hell you want it to be. Did you know that James Joyce let his secretary -- none other than Samuel Beckett -- revise and edit Molly's solliloquy in Ulysses? You're my Beckett -- I give you 'le mot juste!' Just get the damn thing in the mail so I can get paid.
stump		I don't know.    I need a drink. He grabs his hat and coat and we begin hearing the number one hit song of 1960, PERCY FAITH'S schmaltzy recording of "A Summer Place." CUT TO:
stump		Awright, awright... how do you get five old ladies to say 'fuck?' CRONIES  Jeez, I dunno, how? Etc... STUMP Yell 'bingo.' Stump laughs. The others groan. REYNALDO, 40's, black, speaks up. He's one of the regulars.
reynaldo		Okay, I got one -- 
frank		Amidst this levity, gentlemen, I have some real concerns. Mark my words, people will look back on this year and say that 1960 was the year that Western Civilization began its downward trajectory. BILL You need to get laid, Frank. FRANK Guys, guys, c'mon... do you really think things are as good as they used to be? You think Jack Kennedy is qualified to be President? BILL Kennedy may not be qualified, but -- Jackie's a babe -- and that's good enough for me. REYNALDO They're a happily married couple and that oughta stand for something these days...
mud		Speaking of being happily married, Al, are you and your old lady still having problems?
frank		I mean look at us -- we call ourselves writers but we just watch ballgames and get drunk a lot. You call that writing? STUMP Yes I do.
mud		In the department store of life, sports is the toy department -- so what? BILL Yeah, besides, Alan here's writing a serious novel, aren't ya? MUD Yeah, well I haven't started yet but I'm gonna. I've been busy. FRANK You guys are pathetic. Ya write for one reason -- a paycheck.
stump		More art was created for money than for passion. Take your platitudes and shove 'em, Frank. I'm gonna write a novel too, someday.
frank		 The Great American Novel, I suppose?
stump		It could come from my pen. FRANK You're a barbershop writer, Al -- you write sugar-coated pieces for guys to skim when they're waiting for a haircut!
mud		Hey! A scuffle breaks out, a lot of posturing, feinting, but they're all too chicken to do anything. Nobody wants to fight. A PHONE RINGS at the bar. The bartender answers the phone, shouts at the obnoxious sportwriters.
reynaldo		Stump!   For you. Stump goes to the phone, interrupting his own "fight." STUMP  Shut up!
mud		Cobb who? STUMP Ty Cobb!    How many Cobbs are there?! This news instantly sobers the room.
stump		Not yet. He said he wants to tell me the real story of his life before he croaks.
bill		You were just talking to Ty Cobb?
stump		The Georgia Peach himself. This impresses the hell out of everyone in the room.           Even Stump is still a little dazed.
frank		They say Cobb is crazy. The meanest sonofabitch who ever lived. MUD I heard he killed a man. BILL Maybe so, but -- he was the greatest baseball player of them all. CRONIES Yeah, the best, no one close, etc...
stump		Except Ivan was a nicer guy... 
stump		Immediately.
stump		Shit...
jonah		It's just starting. We got three- four feet of snow another thousand feet up. Where ya going? Skiing? I hate skiing.
jonah		Cobb?! He stopped here for gas once, I asked him for an autograph for my boy and he told me to shove it where the sun don't shine. STUMP I hear he's got a way with kids...
stump		I'm a writer.
willie		You mean he actually found somebody to take the job?
stump		Mr. Cobb? The silence is shattered by a SCRATCH, then VIOLIN MUSIC from upstairs. STATIC suggests a record is playing.
stump		Thank you.
cobb		But you are a hopeless romantic and only a moderate success.
stump		Sir, I am the most successful sportswriter in America and not merely a 'moderate success.'
cobb		Of course.  Give me those pills over there.
stump		 A few weeks.
cobb		All the great ones will be there -- The great Mickey Cochrane will be there! Hornsby, Sisler, Ott, the Waner Brothers... we used to have some parties, Stump, I'll tell ya that right now...  We can't forget. STUMP I won't forget.
cobb		Look at me closely, Al...  You're gonna tell the real story of Ty Cobb. STUMP What's the 'real' story? Cobb climbs slowly out of bed.     His words are reasoned and not without passion.
cobb		That's why you're here. 
cobb		Getty is expanding in the west, looking for companies like that. I got a hunch...  Stumpy, c'mere... Cobb picks up the revolver and holds it lovingly. Stump crosses and stands behind Cobb, sharing the view. COBB I can take that buck.     What'ya think? STUMP With a pistol? No way. Cobb smiles and loads the revolver.       He pushes the window which swings slowly open.
cobb		 ... and sell all the 3-M stock we got.
jameson		If Mr. Cobb said he got him, then he got him.
cobb		You have no vision, Stump. A writer without vision is a waste of my time. I think I picked the wrong man. Cobb stumbles back into bed, somewhat exhausted by the ordeal.
jameson		And I think I better get back to San Francisco before the storm hits. I'll take care of these transactions, Mr. Cobb. And Jameson exits the room.
cobb		 Yes. Cobb reaches over and defiantly turns UP the MUSIC so that the room is overwhelmed with Kreisler's violin. Stump stares back at this decrepit, overpowering figure.
cobb		Chapter one, Page one...
stump		I'm ready. COBB 'Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day.' Stump types it out, then stops.
stump		What the hell is that? COBB That's what Robert E. Lee said at the burial of my grandfather who was a Confederate General killed at Fredricksburg.
stump		So I'm taking notes? COBB Hell no. That's the first line of my autobiography. STUMP I ain't writing it.
cobb		Why not?
stump		It's horseshit. It's a third person comment about someone who's already dead. An autobiography has to be in the first person -- plus it can't come from the other side of the God damn grave.
cobb		My story can come from any damn place I want. STUMP Not to mention you can't call yourself 'a prince and great man' -- that's for the world to decide.
stump		You're not treating me like a writer -- you're treating me like a stenographer.
stump		Know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen this day... COBB It has a certain ring to it... STUMP Yes it does. COBB I thought you might like it. It's yours, a gift from me.  This is the second line from what will be the greatest biography of a great man ever written -- type it! Cobb checks the tape and suddenly is deep in thought over some information coming across. Stump types.
cobb		Bethlehem Steel's about to dive.
cobb		Yeah... buy Coca-Cola. We're about to go out in cans.
stump		Coke in cans?    I don't think so. Cobb just stares back in disdain.      Then, suddenly --
cobb		You know what's wrong with Ty Cobb? STUMP What? COBB  My heart leaks -- the doctors who are nothin' but a buncha hacksaw artists give me Digoxin to keep it pumping... Cobb grabs a bottle of Digoxin pills and flings it across the room in a rage. He flings bottles of pills as he recites his ailments.
cobb		They give me Darvon for the cancer in my back, they give me Tace for something eatin' up my stomach, Fleets Compound for an infection in my bowels, Librium for my tension, insulin for my diabetes...
cobb		And if all that wasn't enough, it's been two years since I got my pecker in the air...  The South may not rise again but my dick will.
cobb		Tell him to go to hell anyway. STUMP Why?
cobb		Him and me used to be pals but we went on a hunting trip once and he hired a shitty guide.
cobb		You tell him to go fuck himself or I'll kick your Yankee ass!
cobb		It'll pass...  Stumpy, listen to me -- you know what I need?
stump		What do you need? COBB I need a woman.  A woman is definitely what I need...
stump		There's a blizzard out there!
cobb		When a man wants a woman, a man wants a woman. 
cobb		You lead, I'll follow. STUMP I'm not driving in this stuff! COBB I need a woman! CUT TO:
cobb		You call that driving, Alice?! My sister can drive faster than that! Step on it! 
cobb		 The man drives like an old woman...
cobb		Drive, motherfucker, drive!
stump		struggles to see through the windshield -- snow is swirling everywhere.
stump's pov		Cobb's car disappears into the blizzard, fishtailing as it goes.
cobb		It's about fucking time you got here! STUMP You've alive?
stump		There's blood! COBB Of course there's blood! I just put my head through the windshield of a car, what the hell ya think, ya big fucking jerk.
stump		Shut up! COBB Ty Cobb can't die like this! They'll bury me and nobody'll know who it is!
stump		I said shut up. Stump drags Cobb awkwardly through the snowbank back up to the highway. When they get to the edge of the high- way, Cobb stops to stare at the tire tracks leaving the road. COBB Look't that! No guard rail! I'm suing the State Highway Commission, I'm suing the Governor, I'm suing every God damn body!  I coulda been killed! STUMP God damn it, shut up and get in the car! The blizzard swirls around the two men, now at Stump's car on the highway.
cobb		Gimme your keys, I'm driving.
stump		I'm driving. 
cobb		Now give me the keys.   I'm driving.
cobb		It's only another hour -- plenty of time to tell you my story before we find us some women.
stump		Women?   Plural?
cobb		Some for you, some for me. We'll have a helluva time. The broads're probably lining up right now, waiting for ol' Ty and his buddy Stump. STUMP  Dear God... And Cobb launches in as he accelerates down the mountain, every curve risking death. He seems at peace with the world -- in the driver's seat, literally, on the edge of being utterly out of control. COBB I suppose you want to know about my childhood. Writers usually do. STUMP None of this 'know ye that a prince and great man has fallen' stuff -- COBB My philosophy is simply this   -- Life is too short to be diplomatic. A man's friends shouldn't mind what he does  or says, and those who are not  his friends, well, to hell with  'em. And Cobb drifts into a story of his youth. He's suddenly so relaxed that he pays little attention to the road.
cobb		I was born in a small town in Georgia, of course... my sweet sister Florence still lives there... 
new angle		Closer and closer the engine comes -- 50 yards, 25 yards, 10, five, four, three... moments before death -- Young Ty Cobb leaps to safety, flying in front of the engine, out over the water till he splashes, mere milli- seconds before he would have been crushed to death.  Young Cobb surfaces in the river and waves his arms in triumph. His pals shriek with delight and embrace him at his courage.  COBB  I felt protected. By my father, my mother, the baptism, I don't know -- but from that moment on I knew I couldn't be hurt.
cobb		Then you've read that I'm the meanest bastard of them all?
stump		People have said that, yes...
cobb		I don't care what people think. STUMP Then why do you care what I write?
cobb		I am who I tell you I am!   Why are you making things so complicated?!
stump		That's what writers do.
cobb		My father was murdered, y'know. STUMP Your father was murdered? COBB I mean that's the sort of thing you're looking for, isn't it?  Murdered on the balcony of his own house... the house I grew up in...
cobb		Why I'm such a prick? Ha!  That's too easy -- you're a better writer than that -- STUMP Was the killer ever caught?
cobb		There was an arrest, a trial, and an acquittal. Nobody was ever convicted.
stump		Jesus Christ --
cobb		Single to left, steal second, steal third, steal home... GAMBLER Eight to one. COBB Fuck you!
gambler		Ten to one.
cobb		You're on. Cobb tosses some money on the pile, and climbs up the dugout steps, shouting. CUT TO:
cobb		Hey, greaseball, check your wife -- one of the players is missing! 
cobb		Who the hell ever signed you? TEAMMATE Go to hell.
cobb		Hey, Cyclops, you're missing a good game. UMPIRE Shut up, Cobb. As Cobb digs in, he reaches into his back pocket and drops something on home plate, in front of the CATCHER. COBB Here ya go... The Catcher holds up a pair of women's panties. COBB Your old lady left 'em in my car last night -- I thought you could give 'em back to her.
cobb		You God damn coward! You shoulda thrown at me again! You shoulda hit me in the fucking head! 
cobb		Hey, Krauthead, I'm coming down.
new angle		The pitcher stretches, looks and delivers -- and Cobb breaks for second. The pitch is wide. The Catcher fires.  Wagner takes the throw as Cobb arrives in a spikes-up slide. And Wagner swipes a brutal tag in Cobb's face -- his giant ham of a hand in the tiny glove clutching the ball lashes across Cobb's mouth. Blood gushes. The ball pops free. Wagner seems unbothered by the fact that Cobb is safe at second -- he has bloodied Cobb's face. Cobb seems unboth- ered by the fact that his face is a bloody mess -- he has stolen second. Both men seem satisfied.
pitcher		Stretches and delivers -- Cobb takes off for third.       The throw is high -- he slides in safely.
catcher		steals a glance at Cobb who takes a menacing lead off third. The Catcher gives a signal to the pitcher.
cobb		A good day to you, too, sir... The police escort Cobb to right field -- the roar of the vitriolic crowd increases. COBB  Do you know what it's like to be booed like that?
cobb		After World War Two, General Patton asked me for an autograph -- he said he patterned himself after me!  Are you getting this?
stump		I'll remember. COBB Why aren't you writing?!
stump		'Cause I'm trying to have a good grip on things when this car goes over the next cliff! I ain't ready to die yet! Cobb's tone changes suddenly -- he questions Stump with- out guile or anger, as if his answer is obvious. COBB But neither am I.
stump		Ty!
cobb		But you're not listening to me! I may have every God damn disease known to man but I am never going to check into a hospital because I am alive and I am going to get laid in Reno! 
cobb		You queer?!
stump		I'm married. COBB I thought you were divorced.
stump		We're in the middle of a... problem. We're talking. COBB Talking my ass! Quit hanging on -- get a divorce. Is that why you don't wanta get laid in Reno? 'Cause you're feeling loyal to a woman you're divorcing? That's really stupid, Stumpy...
stump		I'm not getting a divorce.    I'm being loyal. COBB Is that why you used to wine and dine that little brunette who had an office across the courtyard from you in Santa Barbara? Stump is nailed.
stump		What do you know about her?! COBB I do my homework, Stumpy. I know where the bodies are buried. STUMP  It didn't last long!
stump		Nobody knows about the brunette. COBB Our little secret, huh?  And that part about me being a shit with women? That ain't gonna be in the book.
stump		I gotta put your family in my book. COBB Your book?! My book! And nothing about my ex-wives or children are gonna be in it. My book is about baseball! STUMP My book is about Cobb!
cobb		Cobb is baseball! INTERCUT:
stump		Ty!    Look!   It's a man!
cobb		Whoever it is he's gotta be pretty stupid to be out in this shit. STUMP We're out in this shit! And Stump climbs out of the car.
stump		Let me help you to the car. WILLIE I told you that you'd only last one day with the bastard. STUMP Cobb's in the car. He's driving.
stump		Yeah...
willie		 He hates me. He hates black people...
stump		He fucking hates everybody. Don't give him the pleasure of dying out here. WILLIE If dying out here gives him pleasure then I won't die out here. They get to the car -- Stump opens the back door to help the nearly-frozen man into the car. Cobb grumbles. STUMP Ty, it's Willie. We can give him a lift to town.
cobb		Bullshit! I ain't givin' no nigger a ride nowhere!
stump		Shut the fuck up and give him a ride!
cobb		Now who's the coward! You won't shoot me! You need me! Stump hands the gun to Willie..... 
cobb		You'll pay for this, Stumpy... STUMP Say, Willie, you a baseball fan? WILLIE Yessir...
stump		Who's the greatest ballplayer of all time, in your opinion? WILLIE Willie Mays, no doubt about it. COBB That nigger couldn't hold my jock! STUMP Excuse me, Mr. Cobb, the man is speaking...
cobb		Shut up!!
willie		And of course, the greatest base runner of all time isn't riding in this car -- the fastest baseball player of all time was Cool Papa Bell -- Cool Papa would've easily broke all your stolen base records -- 
willie		Cool Papa   was so fast that when he entered a   hotel room and flipped the light   switch off, he'd be asleep in   bed before it got dark... STUMP And then there's Satchel Paige... WILLIE Oh yeah, Satchel Paige could throw a porkchop past a wolf, Mr. Cobb, ol' Satchel woulda had you eatin' outta his hand, he woulda had you hittin' .220 and kissin' his black ass to boot... COBB Shut this man up!
willie		The man with the gun does the talking, you wretched, old prick...
stump		Ice!   Slow down! Tyyyy!
willie		Well, Mr. Cobb, thank you for a lift into town... Willie hands the gun to Stump and climbs out of the car, bidding farewell to Stump as he does.
stump		Two rooms, please...
clerk		Aw, c'mon, you always want a discount, Mona.
ramona		We're all sick in the eyes of God -- but some of us still have manners.
stump		Your gun's okay, too... right here...
stump		Mine, for crissakes, I'm the writer!
cobb		But I'm the legend and legends are not pathetic!
stump		 These are just notes...
cobb		Don't you understand anything about 'greatness'? STUMP Maybe you should find another writer. COBB There's not enough time left. This frank admission momentarily stops Stump. STUMP I'm entitled to my opinions -- COBB Now that's pathetic. Who gives a good God damn about the opinions of Al Stump?! What people want to know about is Ty Cobb! And they don't want to know who he hates 'cause everybody hates somebody! They don't wanta know if he had two wives or ten! They don't wanta know if he hit women or if they hit him! STUMP You think they wanta know how to steal second base?
cobb		Yes!   Precisely!
stump		Well I don't! 
cobb		And you ain't printing it. STUMP I have to. COBB Not if I say so. I don't think you understand something -- I have final editorial approval of the book.
stump		No, I do.    I always have it. COBB Did you read your contract?
stump		It's my standard contract. I just signed. I would never have agreed to this if you had final approval.
cobb		Call your agent. Stump quickly dials and gets an answer.
stump		Hello? Charlie? Al... I'm in Reno... yeah... things are fine...  We did? Cobb has it? Jesus... Stump listens long and hard -- his face sinks. Cobb smiles and hangs the phone back up for Stump who reaches for the bottle on the nightstand and pours himself a morning drink of vodka.
cobb		Well, you were pretty stupid to give up approval, weren't ya? STUMP Fuck you, Cobb? COBB Fuck me? Why me?  Why you mad at me? Your agent made the deal, your lawyer, your publisher, you didn't even read the contract because you trusted them! Who the hell ever trusted a lawyer or an agent?! If I was Al Stump, the guy I'd be pissed off at would be Al Stump! STUMP Listen to me, you son of a bitch -- if you die before the book is finished, I'll write the story I want. COBB But I ain't dying first.
stump		I'll write slow.
cobb		Now get dressed so we can go find some women... Stump just stares back -- exhausted and overmatched.
cobb		I don't remember... Ramona arrives at their table.
ramona		Cigarettes, gentlemen? Cigars? We stockpiled some Havanas before Senor Castro did his little number.
stump		At the hotel -- checking in. RAMONA Ohyeah, you were the asshole. Cobb is suddenly gallant, gentlemanly, even charming.
cobb		Excuse me, young lady, I must apologize for the behavior of my friend -- he has a crude side. Ramona delivers the cigars and collects the money. Stump is a bit chagrined and caught off guard by this Cobb.
ramona		I accept. COBB Ramona... Spanish name... lovely... it means 'moonlit garden of the gods'... RAMONA Actually it's German and means 'wise protectoress' but thanks for the thought...
louis prima		Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, you're a great crowd ... I have been informed that we have a celebrity with us tonight who is a legend, a man who truly needs no introduction... 
cobb		Of course they want me. And Cobb heads for the stage, walking better but not without effort, a walk enhanced by drugs and booze. As he does, Ramona turns to Stump. 
stump		The greatest baseball player of all time.
ramona		I don't know baseball from shmaseball but I know a nice man when I see one and I also know it's time for my coffee break. Hasta luego. And she's off with her trayful of tobacco to the cocktail lounge.
back onstage		As Cobb arrives... LOUIS PRIMA AND GROUP  Fellas, she can't get, are fellas, she ain't met, Georgia made her, Georgia claimed her, Sweet Georgia Brown.
cobb		Well, I figure against today's pitchers I'd only hit about .275,
louis prima		That's amazing, Mr. Cobb, considering your lifetime average is nearly a hundred points higher. Why do you think you'd only hit .275 against today's pitchers? 
cobb		First of all I wanta thank you for that song, 'Sweet Georgia Brown... it's a great song about my home state and I appreciate it...  It's too bad such a fine song had to be stole by a buncha niggers playing a faggot game in their underwear...
louis prima		Thank you very much. Another round of applause for the Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb!
cobb		I got the mike, Dago -- gimme a God damn minute. Nobody's got respect for their elders any more. Cobb turns to the crowd which, even in it's drunken state, is appalled and in disbelief.
offstage		The Casino Manager winces and consults.
casino manager		Oh God, here we go...
cobb		Hitting a baseball is really very easy... you can't force it... you can't overpower it... you go with the pitch... you let the bat do the work... it's all rhythm and flow... And Cobb starts demonstrating hitting techniques to the bewildered audience and casino staff. He strikes that familiar, strange stance -- choked up on the bat, a split grip, the bat held parallel to the ground... CUT TO:
ramona		You again? You could learn some manners from your friend.
stump		I'll try harder.  You're a beautiful woman.
ramon		It's the wig. Ramona pulls the wig off her head revealing a sea of bobby pins and hair pins tying her natural brown hair to her head. She sets the wig on the counter and scratches her natural scalp. RAMONA The damn thing itches but it's good for tips. Give me a scratch, will ya? Stump scratches the back of her scalp, somewhat embar- rassed and somewhat aroused. RAMON Turn you on? Hey, Harvey, another round. On him.
stump		Vodka and grapefruit juice. Ramona slaps the wig back on her head. Slightly akilter. She doesn't care. Harvey delivers another round. STUMP Your wig's crooked.
ramona		Does it bother you?
stump		No, no... I was just -- 
stump		I'm sorry. I didn't know.     I mean I'm not good at this. RAMONA Just divorced, huh?
stump		Not yet... RAMONA It's written all over ya.    Giant letters right across the forehead. D-I-V-O-R-C-E.     Ha! Plain as day. Ramona lets out a loud, hearty laugh without inhibition. STUMP It's obvious, huh?
ramona		Obvious.  So, if ya wanta pay me to screw, I won't do it. STUMP Then I won't.
ramona		Screw or pay?
stump		Whichever. 
stump		No, I do.
ramona		All this ambiguity -- I see why she's divorcing ya. Stump, completely befuddled, lets down completely. He doesn't care about getting laid or drunk or anything for the moment, except having someone to talk to -- the some- one is Ramona.
stump		I don't know what I'm saying or doing anymore... I'm trying to speak my heart. RAMONA Oh God... STUMP I told my wife I wanted a divorce. She said 'okay' -- then I realized maybe I don't. RAMONA Then go back to her. STUMP No.
ramona		Then quit crying. You want a divorce, you don't want a divorce, you're asking marital advice from a woman you're trying to get in the sack -- Jeez Louise!
stump		I'm not myself.
ramona		Who is? A sigh.   Stump is lost.    He motions to the bartender.
ramona		You being paid?
stump		Very well. RAMONA Then it's not a lie. It's a job. Quit agonizing -- take the money, do what you gotta do, and get it over with. STUMP I can't. RAMONA Then quit. STUMP No!
ramona		For godsakes why not? Stump has to think about this for a while.
stump		He knows greatness. I'm in the presence of greatness. I want to learn about greatness. She looks at him like he's crazy.
ramona		Greatness is overrated. STUMP Maybe you're right, maybe you're right... RAMONA So what do you want?
ramona		Screwed, stewed, and tattooed! She laughs a hearty laugh, letting it all out.
stump		C'mere... I want to hold you.
ramona		You're so thoughtful -- the others are trying to get me drunk and you're trying to keep me sober.  You'd be good husband material. STUMP Not so fast --
ramona		I didn't mean --
stump		Come here. 
ramona		I'm not a whore.
stump		Shh, shh... I know, I know... A moment of quiet, simple bliss -- when:
cobb		You two-timing bastard! You God damn Judas Iscariot! You stealing my girl! I'll kill you! STUMP She's not 'your' girl! And Cobb lashes out at Stump -- Stump tries to block the blow, but Cobb is relentless, and Cobb hits him again.
ramona		I don't want to!
cobb		What's this?! RAMONA My hair. COBB Put it back on.
ramona		Who are you again? COBB I am the Georgia Peach. I have 4,191 base hits in 11,429 at- bats, 920 stolen bases, 2,244 runs scored, and 92 batting records...  And I want you to undress.
ramona		No. Cobb clicks the hammer of his gun with icy calm.
ramona		That don't scare me 'cause if you kill me I'll be dead and you ain't gonna screw a dead lady.
cobb		I might. 
ramona		You're right.    You might. COBB Take your clothes off.
cobb		You got big tits. I like big tits.
ramona		 They aren't so big. They're average, actually -- but these bras are great. Push 'em right up there. I owe a lot to the bras and wigs. A girl needs what she needs --
cobb		Shut up.    Take it off. She does.    And covers her breasts with her hands.
cobb		Shy, huh?    Get on the bed. Ramona gets on the bed -- Cobb circles the bed continuously. COBB You're a beauty. Roll over.
ramona		Mr. Cobb, I -- COBB Shut up.
ramona		I'm sure you --
cobb		Shut up! RAMONA What do you want from me?!
cobb		Roll over. Terrified, she does. COBB I want you to do exactly what I say... RAMONA No...
cobb		Exactly what I say...
cobb		A thousand dollars... He holds out the money for her.
ramona		Do what you gotta do and get it over with, Mr. Cobb.
cobb		She was a great piece of ass, Stumpy, best I ever had...
stump		Good, good... COBB Have we missed the Testimonial Dinner? STUMP No we haven't, Ty... now get some sleep... Stump tucks Cobb in his bed as the old man drifts into sleep, turns off the light, and heads back to his own room.
cobb		Nothing like a cigarette girl and thirty hours of sleep to invigorate a man, Stumpy! You look like shit. STUMP Been writing, Ty... Cobb goes straight for the typewriter and yanks out a page, grabbing the stack of typed pages as well.
cobb		Well let's see how we're doing... Cobb reads the pages with utter seriousness.       Stump watches. COBB Yes, God damn it, Stumpy, yes! Now you're getting it! None of this Sigmund Freud bullshit! Baseball, Stumpy, baseball! Yes! Cobb rushes to Stump and embraces him, almost like a child. His eyes are wet with tears. COBB You understand! People are no damn good but you're different! You're okay, Stumpy, you get it!  And I can trust you...
cobb		My girl went for the nigger?
stump		I think they're just next to each other by accident.
cobb		Mona!   You with that nigger! Cobb's voice silences the tables.    Ramona looks up.
willie		He's crazy. RAMONA I know.
cobb		Willie!     Is she with you?!
cobb		My girl with my nigger!
stump		She's not your girl and he's not your --
security officer		He's got a gun. RAMONA Mr. Cobb! WILLIE Get down! Cobb on the table with a gun as Stump and police officers scramble to grab his gun hand. Customers hit the deck.
cobb		What is the world coming to?! BLAM, BLAM, BLAM -- the gun is FIRED REPEATEDLY into the ceiling fixtures, into the mirrors above the tables. Cobb is wrestled to the table by several men, including Stump. And it takes all of them to escort the struggling Cobb out of the casino into the lobby. STUMP  We're leaving, we're leaving! There's no reason to press charges!
stump		Ty, Ty, Ty, calm down. It's time for the testimonial dinner!
cobb		Swear on a Bible, Stumpy -- I feel I can trust you now.
cobb		 -- next to you -- the greatest player of all time. He hit 714 home runs?!
cobb		Anybody can hit home runs. Now excuse me, I got work to do...
stump		Sorry, Ty -- And Cobb resumes into the tape recorder.
stump		... and I became expert at keeping the peace wherever we went...
cobb		Y'know, Stumpy, with a friend like you, I just might go on forever... Cobb grabs the recorder mike and launches in again.
cobb		 Until, by the grace of God, we arrived -- days, weeks, months later, I don't know -- in Cooperstown, New York, for his beloved testimonial dinner... DISSOLVE TO:
stump		I've been looking forward to this for a long time --
cobb		You fucking liar. You've been hoping I'd die first.
stump		You got me wrong. COBB I got you right. But it's okay 'cause I need your help. Stump squirms.      A KNOCK at the door.    Stump answers it.
cobb		I sent you money for it. 
cobb		You drank it, you mean. You can't go to the Hall of Fame like that. I won't allow it.
cochrane		Things have been rough, Ty.
cobb		There's two things a man should never do -- complain or explain.  Now go buy a God damn tux!
cobb		God damn it, Mickey, ya gotta give a better effort. 
stump		Jesus, Ty, why not? COBB Because it would embarrass him. Cobb winces as he tries to rise, almost falling. COBB I don't wanta take the cane tonight.
stump		You've got to have your cane. COBB I don't have to have anything -- if you stay near me... in case I wobble or something... just a firm hand right here...  That'll keep me upright. I'd appreciate it. Now how do I look? Cobb poses in his tux -- proudly, unsurely.
stump		You look like the greatest ballplayer of all time. You going to be okay?
cobb		I'll be okay when I hear the crowd. CUT TO:
cobb		Thank you, my friend... And Cobb is met by the Hall of Fame director, CHARLES, 50, who shakes his hand and shows him in.
charles		Hello, Mr. Cobb, good to see you again. And they head inside. CUT TO:
cobb		The boys'll get together later and have a little party, eh?
crawford		Be some parties tonight, Peach... 
cobb		Stumpy, meet Rogers Hornsby, next to me the greatest hitter of all time --
hornsby		How d'ya do.   You're looking good, Ty...
cobb		I look like shit and you know it. We'll have a real smoker later, eh?
hornsby		Ohyeah... we'll tear it up good... The EMCEE raps a fork on a glass, bringing the dinner to order.
cobb		What the hell is this?! STUMP It's a great film -- COBB Me and Speaker and the fix? STUMP I think the medication's getting to you, Ty -- I'm watching you run the bases.
cobb		What're you seeing? STUMP You and Connie Mack.
cobb		Crawford and Foxx have something cooking in Room 212 -- STUMP Over here, Ty. COBB I never partied with these boys but they had a reputation.
foxx		Ty. COBB You got some booze?
foxx		No. 
cobb		Got any women in there?
foxx		Sure do. Cobb lights up.
cobb		Me and Stumpy want some action. FOXX Wanta meet some great broads? COBB We're ready. And Jimmy Foxx opens the door letting in Cobb and Stump. CUT TO:
crawford		Hello, Ty.   You know my wife, Lillian?
traynor		And this is Mrs. Traynor.
foxx		Pearl, meet Ty Cobb and -- STUMP Al Stump.
foxx		Hornsby's got something on the third floor -- maybe more what you're looking for.
stump		You sure you're up for this? COBB I've never been readier! Cobb takes a hit on his flask and they knock at the door. Hornsby answers the door -- we can see a party behind him, full of old players, booze, cigars -- and even some women, though the whole thing is infinitely tamer than the smokers Cobb remembers.
cobb		Rajah! HORNSBY You ain't comin' in, Ty. COBB It's me!   An' Stumpy here!
cobb		Who's in there?!
cobb		Let me talk to Mickey.
cochrane		Ty...
cobb		Ya look good in that tux, Mick. COCHRANE I can't let ya in, Ty. It's Rogers' party. I'm an invited guest. COBB God damn it, let me in! Cobb tries to break into the party but Hornsby rushes over and shoves the door in his face, leaving Ty and Stump alone. COBB Presidents of the United States of America used to invite me to the White House to drink their Scotch and smoke their cigars and fuck their women. STUMP Let's go to the motel, Ty... Cobb heads down the hallway pounding on every door -- he's ready to explode.
cobb		Let me in, God damn it! I invented this game! Let me in!
stump		Let's go home, Ty, this isn't a good place to be...
cobb		Take me back to the Hall!
cobb		What did you see on that film tonight?
stump		I saw Ty Cobb playing baseball. COBB That's all?
stump		That's all.
cobb		I was raised in the Baptist Church but I know that Heaven is just the ol' oskefagus -- the change-up. You swing from your ass 'cause you think life is a fastball down the middle and after your bat has crossed the plate and you're all off balance and looking stupid, the ball just kinda flutters across home, slow and juicy and hittable, and as it crosses the plate, the ball looks at you and smiles a nasty smile and laughs its way into the catcher's mitt...  We don't just lose -- we're made fools of.
stump		You were the best.
cobb		Save the romance for the book...  ... and take me home to Georgia.
cobb		Greatest biography ever written -- STUMP  The book, like Cobb, was almost finished. But he was dying slower than I was writing, and like everything else, he viewed it as a competition that he was not going to lose.
stump		I have your brother in the car.
florence		Tyrus? STUMP Yes.   And he'd like to see you.
florence		Young man, the family he talks about never existed.
stump		He loved his father. FLORENCE If his father, if my father, was such a great man, why did Tyrus turn out to be so evil? Stump hesitates.      He doesn't have a ready answer.
stump		He's dying.   He just wants to see you.
cobb		Well? STUMP It wasn't your sister. The woman in the house said your sister moved a long time ago... she doesn't know where. COBB You cocksucking liar. My sister doesn't want to see me and you're lying. And Stump, at last, goes off -- STUMP Liar?! A cocksucking liar?! Of course I'm a liar! That's what I'm paid to do, isn't it?! Lie about Ty Cobb?!
cobb		If you didn't like the job, why didn't you quit?
stump		Who would take care of you?
cobb		Don't give me the sob-sister routine. STUMP I listen to your bullshit, I interpret and shape and find words for your bullshit and you give me nothing but grief!
stump		That was your sister alright, and she didn't want anything to do with you either!
cobb		I forgive her. Stump walks into the cemetery to escape Cobb, who follows nonetheless with a cool resolution. Stump laughs at Cobb's comment. 
cobb		 Forgiveness is crucial to human maturity and religious growth.
stump		Religious growth?!
cobb		We all need to forgive more, Al... you oughta try it. You're too angry. You're all pent up.
stump		I'm angry? Through the cemetery they keep walking, up a long hill full of tombstones and shrines and sprays of dead and dying flowers and gaudy plastic bouquets. Cobb following steadily along with his cane, several paces behind Stump.
cobb		Is it the divorce?    You gotta let go of it...
stump		I love her!   I don't want a divorce!
cobb		Sure ya do. You're just so used to accommodating people that you don't know what you want anymore. I accommodate nobody. Stump whirls near the top of the hill to face Cobb who continues making his way along, slowly and surely.
stump		But you have no friends! 
cobb		You mock my family -- you mock me. Cobb grabs Stump by the throat and stares him in the eye. COBB My father was a great man! STUMP Then why are you such a bastard?
cobb		Being a bastard is a small price to pay for greatness. I, too, am a great man.
stump		Let me go!
cobb		My mother didn't kill my father. STUMP What're you talking about? Cobb's fist clinches Stump's throat, forcing him to hear. Outside the mausoleum, RAIN pours down now, a Southern spring thunderstorm unleashing torrents.
cobb		My father told my mother he was leaving town for the weekend but he came back to the edge of the woods where he tied up his horse... CUT TO:
stump		What the hell're you talking about? Cobb holds out his flask for Stump. COBB You need a drink. STUMP Fuck the drink!
stump		Get your hands off me!
cobb		C'mon, Al...  Come in out of the rain...
cobb		You're an educated man... tell me what you think... Stump just sits there, drinking.
cobb		A man must defend his mother at all times, isn't that right, Al? Or am I a fool?
stump		A man must defend his mother at all times. COBB That's what I thought... And the two men sit there silently, rocking slightly, trying to stay warm, when there is -- Suddenly a KNOCK at the door -- They stare at each other.
cobb		In here. 
cobb		I'm afraid it's divorce, Stumpy. I know this routine. MAN WITH BRIEFCASE You're being sued for divorce.
stump		But my wife and I are still talking?! COBB Yeah, and what she's saying is 'fuck you.' STUMP Fuck me? Well fuck her.     No, fuck him. Stump reaches for the gun and aims it at the man.
stump		You ain't serving me no papers.
stump		I love my wife.
cobb		We all loved our wives, Al, that's got nothing to do with it. 
cobb		There's a million broads out there, Stumpy -- put down the gun.
cobb		Al... no... Al... Al...
cobb		No! Stump pulls the TRIGGER -- CLICK.     Empty.
cobb		It's forgotten already. I saw nothing. Nothing happened.
stump		Yes it did. COBB Al, listen to me. 
stump		I get it... I get it... A moment.    A look.
cobb		Then get some sleep.   You look pathetic.
cobb		You don't have a point of view, Stumpy, you ain't worth killing...
stump		Ty.  Peach... Stump struggles to his elbow to find Cobb.
stump		Ty! Stump leaps out of bed and looks around.
stump		I'm here to see... 
stump		... Mr. Cobb.
receptionist		Be careful. He's got a gun and we haven't been able to get it away from him.
stump		I know, I know... Stump hurries down the hall to the source of the noise. A small group of doctors, orderlies and NURSES are gathered outside Cobb's door, afraid to enter. Also there are two civilians in business suits. NURSE #1 He doesn't want visitors. Stump ignores the advice and enters the room. CUT TO:
cobb		Hey, Stumpy, where you been? You can't believe the shit they call food in this joint. You get some sleep? Good. I had quite a read last night... A Nurse enters warily, but determined, with a small sy- ringe.
cobb		Well don't poke around too long.
cobb		She's a nice piece of ass, eh, Stumpy?  You come back later and climb on the big fella?
cobb		You're a God damn romantic! The truth is a whore! Just like you and just like my mother! Another NURSE enters and announces.
cobb		Tell the son of a bitch to go downstairs and have a Pepsi -- I got no time for business.
cobb		 Bad, ain't it?
cobb		Get the hell outta here! Everybody but Stumpy! Out!
stump		It's all... confusing... 
bill		... so a woman goes into a bar with a duck under her arm, sits down next to a drunk who looks up and says, 'Where'd you find that pig?' An' the woman says 'That's no pig, that's a duck.' 
frank		Stranger!   Another round on me! Stump settles in at the table. CRONIES Long time no see, etc...
stump		Good to see you guys... how's it goin'? Alan, how's that novel coming? Must be about done by now? MUD Uh, actually, I haven't started it yet... been kinda busy...
bill		We all been busy...
stump		Yeah, I know how it is... FRANK We read that Cobb died. STUMP Yeah... finally gave up the ghost.
frank		So?   What was he like? MUD Were the stories true or were they exaggerated? 
bill		Or was he just one of the guys?
stump		The truth? CRONIES Ohyeah, the absolute truth, no bullshit, give it to us straight, etc... STUMP The truth? Stump takes a drink and looks his friends in the eye. STUMP A prince and a great man has fallen. Murmurs of deep satisfaction from the Cronies. Affirmation. CRONIES Yes, awright, we knew it... etc... BILL Helluva guy, eh?
stump		A helluva guy, a great man, a misunderstood artist, a fierce competitor but a sweet man at heart... a gentle soul... As Stump starts lying to his enraptured audience, we PULL BACK AND UP, going FROM the intimate center of the table TO a cool distance, and --
****Dialogues from script :Coco.txt****

miguel		Hol, Mam Coco.
mam coco		How are you, Julio?
miguel		I used to run like this...
miguel		But now I run like this which is way faster!
miguel		And the winner is... Luchadora Coco!
miguel		I have a dimple on this side, but not on this side. Dimple. No dimple. Dimple. No dimple--
abuelita		Miguel!   Eat your food.
abuelita		Aw, you're a twig, mijo.         Have some more.
miguel		No, gracias.
abuelita		I asked if you would like more tamales.
miguel		S-s?
abuelita		That's what I THOUGHT you said.
abuelita		No music!
abuelita		No music!!
musicians		 AUNQUE LA VIDA--
abuelita		NO MUSIC!!!
mam		Be back by lunch, mijo!
miguel		Love you, Mam!
woman		Hola, Miguel!
miguel		Hola!
miguel		Muchas gracias!
street vendor		De nada, Miguel!
miguel		Hey, hey!    Dante!
miguel		Sit. Down. Roll over.        Shake. Fist bump.
miguel		Good boy, Dante!
tour guide		And right here, in this very plaza, the young Ernesto de la Cruz took his first steps toward becoming the most beloved singer in Mexican history!
9.		 DE LA CRUZ  When he was crushed by a giant bell.  CUT TO:
plaza mariachi		 Ay, ay, ay, muchacho.
miguel		Huh?
plaza mariachi		I asked for a shoe shine, not your life story.
miguel		Oh, yeah, sorry.
miguel		I just can't really talk about any of this at home so...
plaza mariachi		Look, if I were you I'd march right up to my family and say, "Hey! I'm a musician. Deal with it!"
miguel		I could never say that...
plaza mariachi		You ARE a musician, no?
miguel		I don't know. I mean... I only really play for myself--
plaza mariachi		Did de la Cruz become the world's best musician by hiding his sweet, sweet skills? No! He walked out onto that plaza and he played out loud!
miguel		Uh-uh, my family would freak!
plaza mariachi		Look, if you're too scared, then, well... have fun making shoes.
miguel		...Seize your moment?
plaza mariachi		Show me what you got, muchacho. I'll be your first audience.
miguel		Abuelita!
abuelita		What are you doing here?
miguel		Um...uh...
abuelita		You leave my grandson alone!
plaza mariachi		Doa, please -- I was just getting a shine!
abuelita		I know your tricks, mariachi!  What did he say to you?
miguel		He was just showing me his guitar...
to berto		Shame on you!
abuelita		My grandson is a sweet little angelito querido cielito -- he wants no part of your music, mariachi! You keep away from him!
abuelita		Ay, pobrecito! Ests bien, mijo?
abuelita		 You know better than to be here in this place! You will come home. Now.
to berto		How many times have we told you -- that plaza is crawling with mariachis!
miguel		Yes, To Berto.
miguel		No, no, no!
abuelita		Go away, you! Go!
miguel		It's just Dante...
abuelita		Never name a street dog.         They'll follow you forever.  Now, go get my shoe.
abuelita		I found your son in Mariachi Plaza!
pap		 Miguel...
mam		You know how Abuelita feels about the plaza.
miguel		I was just shining shoes!
to berto		A musician's shoes!
miguel		But the plaza's where all the foot traffic is.
pap		If Abuelita says no more plaza, then no more plaza.
miguel		 But what about tonight?
pap franco		What's tonight?
miguel		Well they're having this talent show-
miguel		And I thought I might...
mam		...Sign up?
miguel		Well, maybe?
prima rosa		 You have to have talent to be in a talent show.
primo abel		What are YOU going to do, shine shoes?
abuelita		It's Da de los Muertos -- no one's going anywhere. Tonight is about family.
abuelita		Ofrenda room. Vmonos.
abuelita		Don't give me that look. Da de los Muertos is the one night of the year our ancestors can come visit us.  We made all this food -- set out the things they loved in life, mijo. All this work to bring the family together. I don't want you sneaking off to who-knows-where.
miguel		I thought we were done...
abuelita		Ay, Dios mo... Being part of this family means being HERE for this family... I don't want to see you end up like--
miguel		Like Mam Coco's pap?
abuelita		Never mention that man!      He's better off forgotten.
miguel		But you're the one who--
abuelita		Ta, ta, ta-tch!
miguel		I was just--
abuelita		Tch-tch!
miguel		But--
abuelita		Tch!
miguel		I--
abuelita		Tch-tch!
mam coco		Pap?
abuelita		Mam, clmese, clmese.
mam coco		Pap is coming home?
abuelita		No Mam.   It's okay, I'm here.
mam coco		Who are you?
abuelita		Rest, Mam.
miguel		Oh, it's you. Get in here, c'mon, Dante. Hurry up.  Dante wriggles into the hideout. Miguel is huddled over something. The dog peeks around his shoulder.  MIGUEL  I have to sing. I have to play. The music, it's -- it's not just in me. It is me.
miguel		...and make it come true.
miguel		No more hiding, Dante.      I gotta seize my moment!
abuelita		Da de los Muertos has begun!
mam		No, no, no, no, no.
pap		Mam, where should we put this table?
abuelita		In the courtyard, mijos.
pap		You want it down by the kitchen?
abuelita		S.   Next to the other one.
miguel		Get under, get under!
miguel		Nothing!
pap		Miguel...  We've all decided -- it's time you joined us in the workshop!
miguel		What?!
pap		No more shining shoes -- you will be making them! Every day after school!
abuelita		Our Migueli-ti-ti-ti-to carrying on the family tradition! And on Da de los Muertos! Your ancestors will be so proud!
pap		And wingtips, like your Pap Julio--
miguel		But what if I'm no good at making shoes?
pap		Ah, Migue... You have your family here to guide you...  You are a Rivera. And a Rivera is...?
miguel		...A shoemaker. Through and through.
pap		That's my boy!  Berto, break out the good stuff, I wanna make a toast!
miguel		Dante!   No, Dante, stop!
miguel		De la Cruz's guitar...?
mam coco		Pap?
miguel		Mam Coco, is your pap... Ernesto de la Cruz?
mam coco		Pap!   Pap!
miguel		Ha, ha!
miguel		Pap!   Pap!
mam		Miguel!   Get down from there!
miguel		Mam Coco's father was Ernesto de la Cruz!
pap		What are you talking about?
miguel		I'm gonna be a musician!
abuelita		What is all this? You keep secrets from your own family?
to berto		It's all that time he spends in the plaza...
ta gloria		...Fills his head with crazy fantasies!
miguel		It's not a fantasy!
pap		We've never known anything about this man. But whoever he was, he still abandoned his family. This is no future for my son.
miguel		But Pap, you said my family would guide me! Well de la Cruz IS my family! I'm supposed to play music!
abuelita		Never!    That man's music was a curse!    I will not allow it!
miguel		If you would just let--
mam		 Miguel--
pap		You will listen to your family.    No more music.
miguel		Just listen to me play--
pap		End of argument.
abuelita		You want to end up like that man? Forgotten? Left off your family's ofrenda?!
miguel		I don't care if I'm on some stupid ofrenda!
miguel		No!
pap		Mam...
abuelita		There. No guitar, no music. 
miguel		I don't wanna be in this family!
pap		Miguel!   MIGUEL!
miguel		I wanna play in the plaza. Like de la Cruz! Can I still sign-up?
stage manager		You got an instrument?
miguel		No... But if I can borrow a guitar--
stage manager		Musicians gotta bring their own instruments...  You find a guitar, kid, I'll put you on the list.
miguel		Excuse me, can I borrow your guitar?
miguel		You guys have a spare guitar?
miguel		I need a guitar, just for a little bit--
miguel		Great-great grandfather... What am I supposed to do?
miguel		No, no, no, no, no, Dante stop! Cllate! Shhh!
miguel		I'm sorry...
miguel		Seor de la Cruz? Please don't be mad. I'm Miguel, your great-great grandson... I need to borrow this.
groundskeeper		Alright, who's in there?
miguel		I... I'm sorry! It's not what it looks like! De la Cruz is my...
groundskeeper		There's nobody here!
mam		Miguel!
miguel		Mam!
pap		Miguel!   Come home!
pap		Where are you, Miguel?!
woman		Dios mo!    Little boy, are you okay?
miguel		Thanks, I--
skeleton head		Do you mind?
miguel		Ahhh!
skeleton head		Ahhh!
miguel		AHHH!
skeleton abuela		Look how big she's getting!
miguel		Dante?! You can see me?          W-wait! What's going on?!
miguel		Dante!    Dante!
miguel		I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
pap julio		Miguel?!
ta rosita		Miguel?
ta victoria		Miguel?
pap julio		You're here! HERE here!
ta rosita		Our Migueli-ti-ti-ti-ti-to!
miguel		 Remind me how I know you?
ta rosita		We're your family, mijo!
miguel		Ta... Rosita?
ta rosita		S!
miguel		Pap Julio?
pap julio		Hola.
miguel		Ta Victoria?
ta victoria		He doesn't seem entirely dead.
ta rosita		He's not quite alive either...
pap julio		We need Mam Imelda. She'll know how to fix this!
to felipe		 Oye!
to oscar		 It's Mam Imelda--
to felipe		 --She couldn't cross over!
to oscar		She's stuck--
to felipe		--On the other side!
miguel		To Oscar?     To Felipe?
to oscar		Oh, hey Miguel.
ta victoria		I have a feeling this has something to do with you.
ta rosita		But if Mam Imelda can't come to us...
pap julio		...Then we are going to her! Vmonos!
miguel		Whoa...
pap julio		Come on, Miguel. It's ok.
miguel		Dante!   Dante! Dante, wait up!
miguel		This isn't a dream, then.        You're all really out there...
ta victoria		You thought we weren't?
miguel		Well I don't know, I thought it might've been one of those made up things that adults tell kids... like... vitamins.
ta victoria		Miguel, vitamins are a real thing.
miguel		Well, now I'm thinking maybe they could be...
skeleton mother		Mija, it's not nice to stare at--  Ay! Santa Maria!
miguel		Are those...? Alebrijes!         But those are--
to oscar		REAL alebrijes. Spirit creatures...
ta rosita		They guide souls on their journey...
to felipe		Watch your step, they make caquitas everywhere.
arrivals agent		Welcome back! Anything to declare?
traveler		Some churros... from my family.
arrivals agent		How wonderful! Next!
departures agent		Next family, please!
elderly couple		Gracias.
departures agent		Next!
juan ortodoncia		Grashiash!
departures agent		Next!
hctor		Yes, it is I. Frida Kahlo.  Shall we skip the scanner? I'm on so many ofrendas, it'll just overwhelm your blinky thingie...
departures agent		Well shoot. Looks like no one put up your photo, Frida...
hctor		Okay, when I said I was Frida... just now? That... that was a lie. And I apologize for doing that.
departures agent		No photo on an ofrenda, no crossing the bridge.
hctor		You know what, I'm just gonna zip right over, you won't even know I'm gone.
hctor		Ha HA!
hctor		Almost there, just a little further...!
officer		Upsy-daisy...
hctor		Fine, okay. Fine, who cares... Dumb flower bridge!
ta rosita		I don't know what I'd do if no one put up my photo.
ta rosita		Oh!   Come mijo, it's our turn.
arrivals agent		Welcome back, amigos! Anything to declare?
pap julio		As a matter of fact, yes.
miguel		Hola.
miguel		Whoa...
to oscar		I miss my nose...
distressed traveler		C'mon! Help us out amigo... We gotta get to a dozen ofrendas tonight...
miffed wife		We are NOT visiting your ex-wife's family for Da de Muertos!
mam imelda		I demand to speak to the person in charge!
case worker		I'm sorry, seora, it says here no one put up your photo--
mam imelda		My family always -- ALWAYS -- puts my photo on the ofrenda! That devil box tells you nothing but lies!
pap julio		Mam Imelda?
mam imelda		Oh, mi familia! They wouldn't let me cross the bridge! Tell this woman and her devil box that my photo is on the ofrenda.
pap julio		Well, we never made it to the ofrenda...
mam imelda		What?!
pap julio		We ran into... um...
mam imelda		Miguel?
miguel		Mam Imelda...
mam imelda		What is going on?
clerk		You the Rivera family?
clerk		Well, you're cursed.
miguel		What?!
clerk		Da de los Muertos is a night to GIVE to the dead. You STOLE from the dead.
miguel		But I wasn't stealing the guitar!
mam imelda		Guitar...?
miguel		It was my great-great grandfather's, he would have wanted me to have it--
mam imelda		Ah-ah-ah! We do not speak of that...  ...musician! He is DEAD to this family!
miguel		Uh, you're all dead.
clerk		ACHOO! I am sorry, whose alebrije is that?
miguel		That's just Dante.
ta rosita		He sure doesn't look like an alebrije.
to oscar		He just looks like a plain old dog...
to felipe		...Or a sausage someone dropped in a barbershop.
clerk		Whatever he is, I am -- ACHOO! -- terribly allergic.
miguel		But Dante doesn't have any hair.
clerk		And I don't have a nose, and yet here we are -- ACHOO!!
mam imelda		But none of this explains why I couldn't cross over.
miguel		Oh...
mam imelda		You took my photo off the ofrenda?!
miguel		It was an accident!
mam imelda		How do we send him back?!
clerk		Well, since it's a family matter...  The way to undo a family curse is to get your family's blessing.
miguel		That's it?
clerk		Get your family's blessing, and everything SHOULD go back to normal. But you gotta do it by sunrise!
miguel		What happens at sunrise?
pap julio		Hjole!   Your hand!
pap julio		Whoa, Miguel. Can't have you fainting on us.
clerk		But not to worry! Your family's here, you can get your blessing right now.
clerk		Cempaschil, cempaschil.        Aha! Perdn, seora.
clerk		 Now, you look at the living and say his name.
mam imelda		Miguel.
clerk		Nailed it.     Now say: I give you my blessing.
mam imelda		I give you my blessing.
miguel		What?   She can't do that!
clerk		Well technically she can add any conditions she wants.
miguel		Fine.
clerk		 Then you hand the petal to Miguel.
miguel		No skeletons!
miguel		Mariachi Plaza, here I come--
mam imelda		Two seconds and you already break your promise!
miguel		This isn't fair, it's my life!     You already had yours!
miguel		Pap Julio, I ask for your blessing.
mam imelda		Don't make this hard, mijo.      You go home my way, or no way.
miguel		You really hate music that much?
mam imelda		I will not let you go down the same path he did.
miguel		The same path he did.
ta victoria		Listen to your Mam Imelda.
to oscar		She's just looking out for you.
ta rosita		Be reasonable.
miguel		Con permiso, I... need to visit the restroom. Be right back!
clerk		Uh, should we tell him there are no restrooms in the Land of the Dead?
miguel		Vmonos.
patrolwoman		We got a family looking for a LIVING BOY.
miguel		If I wanna be a musician, I need a MUSICIAN'S blessing. We gotta find my great-great grandpa.
patrolman		Hold it, muchacho.
patrolman		Ahh!
patrolman		I've found that living boy!
patrolman		Uh whoa, excuse me, excuse me folks! Excuse me--
miguel		No, no -- Dante!
corrections officer		...disturbing the peace, fleeing an officer, falsifying a unibrow...
hctor		That's illegal?
corrections officer		VERY illegal. You need to clean up your act, amigo.
hctor		Amigo?  I've just had a really hard Da de Muertos, and I could really use an amigo right now.
corrections officer		Uh--
hctor		I'll -- I'll get you backstage, you can meet him!  You just gotta let me cross that bridge!
corrections officer		I should lock you up for the rest of the holiday...  But my shift's almost up, and I wanna visit my living family... so I'm letting you off with a warning.
hctor		Can I at least get my costume back?
corrections officer		Uh, no.
hctor		Some amigo...
miguel		Hey. Hey!     You really know de la Cruz?
hctor		Who wants to--  Ah! You're alive!
miguel		Shhh!
hctor		That's weirdly specific.
miguel		He's my great-great-grandfather.
hctor		He's your wha-whaat...?
miguel		D'ya know what, maybe this isn't such a g--
hctor		No, nio, nio, nio, I can help you! You can help me. We can help each other! But most importantly, you can help ME.
mam imelda		Miguel!
miguel		AH!
hctor		I'm Hctor.
miguel		That's nice!
hctor		Esprame chamaco!
mam imelda		Ay, he is going to get himself killed... I need my spirit guide, Pepita.
mam imelda		Who has that petal Miguel touched?
pap julio		Here!
pap julio		Nice alebrije...
hctor		Hey, hey, hold still.  Look up. Look up. A ver, a ver... look up. Up, UP!... Ta-da!
miguel		You don't get to cross over.
hctor		No one's ever put up my picture...  But you can change that!
miguel		This is you?
hctor		Muy guapo, eh?
miguel		So you get me to my great-great grandpa, then I put up your photo when I get home?
hctor		Such a smart boy! Yes! Great idea, yes!  So, you got any other family here, you know? Someone a bit more... accessible?
miguel		Mmm, nope.
hctor		Don't yank my chain, chamaco.      You gotta have SOME other family.
miguel		ONLY de la Cruz. If you can't help me, I'll find him myself.
hctor		Okay, okay, kid, fine -- fine! I'll get you to your great-great grandpa...!
miguel		I'm walking like a skeleton. Blending in.
hctor		No, skeletons don't walk like that.
miguel		It's how you walk.
hctor		No, I don't.
miguel		Whoa..."Ernesto de la Cruz's Sunrise Spectacular...!" Qu padre!
hctor		Blech. Every year, your great- great grandpa puts on that dumb show to mark the end of Da de Muertos.
miguel		And you can get us in!
hctor		Ahhhh--
miguel		Hey, you said you had front row tickets!
hctor		That... that was a lie.      I apologize for that.
hctor		Cool off, chamaco, come on... I'll get you to him.
miguel		How?
hctor		'Cause I happen to know where he's rehearsing!
cecilia		You better have my dress, Hctor!
hctor		Hola, Ceci!
miguel		Hola.
hctor		Ceci, I lost the dress--
cecilia		Ya lo saba! I gotta dress forty dancers by sunrise and thanks to you, I'm one Frida short of an opening number!
hctor		Ceci -- I know, Ceci. I know, I know. Ceci -- Ceci... Ceci. Ceci...
miguel		Dante... Dante!
miguel		We shouldn't be in here...
miguel		No, no, Dante! Ven ac!
frida		You!    How did you get in here?
miguel		I just followed my--
frida		Oh, the mighty Xolo dog...! Guider of wandering spirits...!  And whose spirit have you guided to me?
miguel		I don't think he's a spirit guide.
frida		Ah-ah-ah. The alebrijes of this world can take many forms... They are as mysterious as they are powerful...
frida		You are the audience.  Darkness. And from the darkness... A giant PAPAYA!
frida		Dancers emerge from the papaya and the dancers are all me!
miguel		I think it's just the right amount of obvious?  It could use some music... Oh! What if you did, like, doonk-doonk- doonk-doonk...
frida		And... what if everything was on fire? Yes! Fire everywhere!
frida		Inspired!  You... you have the spirit of an artist!
frida		The dancers exit, the music fades, the lights go out! And Ernesto de la Cruz rises to the stage!
miguel		Huh?
frida		He does a couple of songs, the sun rises, everyone cheers--
miguel		Excuse me, where's the real de la Cruz?
frida		Ernesto doesn't do rehearsals. He's too busy hosting that fancy party at the top of his tower.
hctor		Chamaco! You can't run off on me like that! C'mon, stop pestering the celebrities...
miguel		You said my great-great grandpa would be here! He's halfway across town, throwing some big party.
hctor		That bum! Who doesn't show up to his own rehearsal?
miguel		If you're such good friends, how come he didn't invite you?
hctor		He's YOUR great-great grandpa.   How come he didn't invite YOU?
hctor		Hey Gustavo! You know anything about this party?
gustavo		It's the hot ticket. But if you're not on the guest list you're never getting in, Chorizo...
musicians		Hey, it's Chorizo! / Choricito!
hctor		Ha ha, very funny guys.      Very funny.
miguel		Chorizo?
gustavo		 Oh, this guy's famous! Go on, go on, ask him how he died!
hctor		I don't want to talk about it.
gustavo		He choked on some CHORIZO!
hctor		I didn't choke, okay -- I got food poisoning, which is a big difference!
hctor		 This is why I don't like musicians... bunch of self- important jerks!
miguel		Hey, I'm a musician.
hctor		You are?
gustavo		Well, if you really want to get to Ernesto, there IS that music competition at the Plaza de la Cruz. Winner gets to play at his party...
hctor		No, no, no, chamaco, you are loco if you think--
miguel		I need to get my great-great grandfather's blessing.
hctor		I know a guy...
mam imelda		Have you found him, Pepita?      Have you found our boy?
ta rosita		A footprint!
pap julio		It's a Rivera boot!
to oscar		Size seven...
to felipe		...and a half.
ta victoria		Pronated.
mam imelda		Miguel.
hctor		Why the heck would you wanna be a musician?
miguel		My great-great grandpa was a musician.
hctor		...Who spent his life performing like a monkey for complete strangers. Blech, no, no thank you, gucala, no...
miguel		Whadda you know?
miguel		So, how far is this guitar anyway?
hctor		We're almost there...
ratty group		COUSIN HCTOR!!
hctor		Eh!   These guys!
ratty member		HCTOR!!
hctor		Hey To!   Qu onda!
miguel		These people are all your family?
hctor		Eh, in a way... We're all the ones with no photos or ofrendas, no family to go home to. Nearly forgotten, you know?  So, we all call each other cousin, or to, or whatever.
ta chelo		Hctor!
hctor		Ta Chelo!     He-hey!
old tias		Muchas gracias!
hctor		Hey, hey! Save some for me!      Is Chicharrn around?
ta chelo		In the bungalow. I don't know if he's in the mood for visitors...
hctor		Who doesn't like a visit from Cousin Hctor?
hctor		Buenas noches, Chicharrn!
chicharrn		I don't want to see your stupid face, Hctor.
hctor		C'mon, it's Da de Muertos! I brought you a little offering!
chicharrn		Get out of here...
hctor		I would, Cheech, but the thing is... me and my friend, Miguel, we really need to borrow your guitar.
chicharrn		My guitar?!
hctor		Yes?
chicharrn		My prized, beloved guitar...?
hctor		I promise we'll bring it right back.
chicharrn		Like the time you promised to bring back my van?
hctor		Uh...
chicharrn		Or my mini-fridge?
hctor		Ah, you see-
chicharrn		Or my good napkins? My lasso?    My femur?!
hctor		No, no, not like those times.
chicharrn		Where's my femur?! You--
hctor		Whoa, whoa -- you okay, amigo?
chicharrn		I'm fading, Hctor. I can feel it.  You play me something.
hctor		You know I don't play anymore, Cheech. The guitar's for the kid--
chicharrn		You want it, you got to earn it...
hctor		Only for you, amigo.     Any requests?
chicharrn		You know my favorite, Hctor.
hctor		 WELL EVERYONE KNOWS JUANITA, HER EYES EACH A DIFFERENT COLOR. HER TEETH STICK OUT, AND HER CHIN GOES IN, AND HER...
chicharrn		Those aren't the words!
hctor		There are children present.  HER HAIR IS LIKE A BRIAR, SHE STANDS IN A BOW-LEGGED STANCE. AND IF I WEREN'T SO UGLY, SHE'D POSSIBLY GIVE ME A CHANCE!
chicharrn		Brings back memories.     Gracias...
miguel		Wait... what happened?
hctor		He's been forgotten.  When there's no one left in the living world who remembers you, you disappear from this world. We call it the "Final Death."
miguel		Where did he go?
hctor		No one knows.
miguel		But I've met him... I could remember him, when I go back...
hctor		No, it doesn't work like that, chamaco. Our memories... they have to be passed down by those who knew us in life -- in the stories they tell about us. But there's no one left alive to pass down Cheech's stories...
miguel		You told me you hated musicians, you never said you were one.
hctor		How do you think I knew your great- great grandpa? We used to play music together. Taught him everything he knows.
miguel		No manches! You played with Ernesto de la Cruz, the greatest musician of all time?
hctor		Ha-ha, you're funny! Greatest eyebrows of all time maybe but his music, eh, not so much.
miguel		You don't know what you're talking about...
hctor		Welcome to the Plaza de la Cruz!  Showtime, chamaco!
vendor		Llvelo!   T-shirts!    Bobble-heads!
emcee		Bienvenidos a todos!     Who's ready for some msica?
hctor		That's our ticket, muchacho.
emcee		Let the competition begin!
hctor		So what's the plan?     What are you gonna play?
miguel		Definitely "Remember Me."
hctor		No, not that one.     No.
miguel		C'mon, it's his most popular song!
hctor		Ehck, it's too popular.
skeleton musician		 REMEMBER ME, THOUGH I HAVE TO TRAVEL FAR, REMEMBER ME...
opera singers		 REMEMBER ME! DON'T LET IT MAKE YOU CRY!
miguel		Um... what about "Poco Loco?"
hctor		Epa!   Now that's a song!
stagehand		De la Cruzcito? You're on standby!  Los Chachalacos, you're up next!
crowd		LOS CHACHALACOS!
hctor		You always this nervous before a performance?
miguel		I don't know -- I've never performed before.
hctor		What?! You said you were a musician!
miguel		I am!  I mean I will be.     Once I win.
hctor		That's your plan?!  No, no, no, no, no, you have to win, Miguel. Your life LITERALLY depends on you winning! AND YOU'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE?!
miguel		No!    I need to do this.
hctor		Why?
miguel		If I can't go out there and play one song... how can I call myself a musician?
hctor		What does that matter?!
miguel		'Cuz I don't just want to get de la Cruz's blessing. I need to prove that... that I'm worthy of it.
hctor		Oh. Oh, that's such a sweet sentiment... at SUCH a bad time!
hctor		Okay... okay, okay, okay. Okay. Okay.  Okay you wanna perform? Then you've got to PERFORM!
miguel		My best grito?
hctor		Come on, yell! Belt it out! OOOOOOH HE-HE-HEY! Ha! Ah, feels good! Okay... now you.
miguel		 Ah -- ah -- ayyyyy yaaaaayyyyay...
hctor		Oh, c'mon kid...
stagehand		De la Cruzcito, you're on now!
hctor		Miguel, look at me.
stagehand		Come on, let's go!
hctor		Hey!     Hey, look at me. 
miguel		Hctor...
hctor		Make 'em listen, chamaco!        You got this!
hctor		Arre pap!     Hey!
on stage		 Miguel slowly takes the stage, guitar in hand.         He's blinded by the lights and squints out at the audience.         He's frozen stiff.
hctor		 What's he doing? Why isn't he playing?
on stage		 Panic is painted across Miguel's face.  AUDIENCE MEMBER  Bring back the singing dogs!  The crowd begins to murmur impatiently.         Miguel looks to Hctor in the wing.  Hctor makes eye contact with Miguel and does the "loosen up" bone shimmy.
miguel		HAAAAAAAI-YAAAAAAAAAAAI-YAAAAAAAAI!
miguel		 WHAT COLOR IS THE SKY? AY MI AMOR, AY MI AMOR YOU TELL ME THAT IT'S RED AY MI AMOR, AY MI AMOR WHERE SHOULD I PUT MY SHOES? AY MI AMOR, AY MI AMOR YOU SAY PUT THEM ON YOUR HEAD AY MI AMOR, AY MI AMOR
hctor		No, no, no, no...
miguel		Not bad for a dead guy!
hctor		You're not so bad yourself, gordito! Eso!
mam imelda		He's close. Find him.
hctor		 THE LOCO THAT YOU MAKE ME IT IS JUST UN POCO CRAZY THE SENSE THAT YOU'RE NOT MAKING...
miguel		 THE LIBERTIES YOU'RE TAKING...
ta rosita		Have you seen a living boy?
on stage		 HECTOR                               MIGUEL UN POQUI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI-       UN POQUI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI-TI- TI-TI-TO LOCO!!                      TI-TI-TO LOCO!!  The audience erupts into applause!
hctor		Hey, you did good!     I'm proud of you! Eso!
audience		Otra!   Otra! Otra!
hctor		Hey, where are you going?
miguel		We gotta get outta here.
hctor		What, are you crazy?     We're about to win this thing!
emcee		Damas y caballeros, I have an emergency announcement.  Please be on the lookout for a living boy, answers to the name of Miguel. Earlier tonight he ran away from his family. They just want to send him back to the Land of the Living...
hctor		Wait, wait, wait! You said de la Cruz was your ONLY family. The ONLY person who could send you home.
miguel		I do have other family, but--
hctor		You could have taken my photo back this whole time?!
miguel		--But they hate music!      I need a musician's blessing!
hctor		You lied to me!
miguel		Oh, you're one to talk!
hctor		Look at me. I'm being forgotten, Miguel. I don't even know if I'm gonna last the night!  I'm not gonna miss my one chance to cross that bridge 'cause you want to live out some stupid musical fantasy!
miguel		It's not stupid.
hctor		I'm taking you to your family.
miguel		Let go of me!
hctor		You'll thank me later--
miguel		You don't wanna help me, you only care about yourself! Keep your dumb photo!
hctor		No -- no, no, no!     No...
miguel		Stay away from me!
hctor		Hey, chamaco! Where did you go?! Chamaco! I'm sorry! Come back!
miguel		Dante, cllate!
crowd members		It's him! / It's that living boy! / I heard about him. / Look! / He's alive! / The boy's alive.
miguel		AAHH!
mam imelda		This nonsense ends now, Miguel! I am giving you my blessing and you are going home!
miguel		I don't want your blessing!
mam imelda		Miguel!   Stop!
miguel		You're ruining my life!
mam imelda		What?
miguel		Music's the only thing that makes me happy. And you, you wanna take that away!  You'll never understand.
mam imelda		 Y AUNQUE LA VIDA ME CUESTE, LLORONA... NO DEJAR DE QUERERTE...
miguel		I thought you hated music.
mam imelda		Oh, I loved it.  I remember that feeling, when my husband would play, and I would sing and nothing else mattered. But when we had Coco, suddenly... there was something in my life that mattered more than music. I wanted to put down roots. He wanted to play for the world.
miguel		But I don't wanna... pick sides!  But you never will.
security guard		Have a good time.
guest		Oh, how exciting!
security guard		Oh!  El Santo!  I'm a big fan.
security guard		You mind if I--
security guard		Gracias, seor!
security guard		Invitation?
miguel		It's okay. I'm Ernesto's great- great grandson!
miguel		Disculpen, seores...
band leader		Hey guys, it's Poco Loco!
miguel		You too! Hey, musician to musician, I need a favor...
security guard		Ooo, the competition winners! Congratulations chicos!
miguel		Thanks guys!
miguel		Whoa...
band leader		Enjoy the party, little msico!
miguel		Gracias!
guest		Look, it's Ernesto!
miguel		De la Cruz...
miguel		Seor de la Cruz!
miguel		Pardon me, Seor de la Cruz!     Seor de la--
miguel		Seor de la Cruz!     Seor de la--
miguel		 SEORAS Y SEORES BUENAS TARDES, BUENAS NOCHES BUENAS TARDES, BUENAS NOCHES SEORITAS Y SEORES TO BE HERE WITH YOU TONIGHT BRINGS ME JOY! QU ALEGRA! FOR THIS MUSIC IS MY LANGUAGE AND THE WORLD ES MI FAMILIA
miguel		FOR THIS MUSIC IS MY LANGUAGE AND THE WORLD ES MI FAMILIA
miguel		FOR THIS MUSIC IS MY LANG--
miguel		You... know about me?
miguel		I'm Miguel. Your great-great grandson.
miguel		I need your blessing. So I can go back home and be a musician, just like you. 
86.		 MIGUEL  The rest of our family, they wouldn't listen. But I... I hoped you would?  DE LA CRUZ My boy, with a talent like yours, how could I not listen?  Miguel hugs de la Cruz who sweeps Miguel up onto his shoulders, showing him off to the room.  DE LA CRUZ I HAVE A GREAT-GREAT GRANDSON!  The crowd roars.  CUT TO:
crowd		Look, it's Frida!
hctor		Yes, it is I. Frida Kahlo.
security guard		It is an honor, seora!
hctor		Gracias...
miguel		Dimple.   No dimple.      Dimple.   No dimple.
miguel		No -- it's all great.
miguel		It's just -- I've been looking up to you my whole life. You're the guy who actually did it! But...  Did you ever regret it? Choosing music over... everything else.
miguel		Leaving your family?
miguel		You mean it?!
miguel		I can't... I have to get home before sunrise.
hctor		You said you'd take back my photo. You promised, Miguel.
miguel		I just met him tonight.      He told me he knew you--
hctor		Please Miguel, put my photo up.
hctor		And whose fault is that?
hctor		Those were MY songs you took.     MY songs that made YOU famous.
miguel		W-What?
hctor		If I'm being forgotten, it's because you never told anyone that I wrote them--
miguel		That's crazy, de la Cruz wrote all his own songs.
hctor		 You wanna tell him, or should I?
hctor		Oh, how generous.
miguel		You really did play together...
hctor		Look, I don't want to fight about it. I just want you to make it right. Miguel can put my photo up--
hctor		--And I can cross over the bridge. I can see my girl.
hctor		Ernesto... Remember the night I left?
hctor		We drank together and you told me you would move heaven and earth for your amigo. Well, I'm asking you to now.
miguel		Heaven and earth?     Like in the movie?
hctor		What?
miguel		That's Don Hidalgo's toast... in the de la Cruz movie, "El Camino A Casa."
hctor		I'm talking about my real life, Miguel.
miguel		No, it's in there.    Look.
miguel		But in the movie, Don Hidalgo poisons the drink...
hctor		That night, Ernesto.    The night I left...
young hctor		This was your dream. You'll manage.
young hctor		I'm going home, Ernesto.  Hate me if you want, but my mind is made up.
hctor		You... POISONED me.
hctor		All this time I thought it was just bad luck.
hctor		I never thought that you might have... that you...
hctor		How could you?!
miguel		Hctor!
hctor		You took everything away from me!
hctor		You rat!
hctor		I just wanted to go back home!      No, no, NO!
miguel		You were going to give me your blessing...
miguel		That you murdered Hctor... for his songs?
miguel		I -- no! Everyone knows you're the... the good guy.
miguel		Pap Ernesto? My blessing?
miguel		What?!    But I'm your family!
miguel		No, NO!
miguel		Let go!
miguel		NO!   AHHHHHH!
miguel		Help! Can anyone hear me?        I wanna go home!
miguel		Hctor?
hctor		Kid?
miguel		Oh, Hctor!
miguel		You were right. I should have gone back to my family--
hctor		Hey -- hey, hey...
miguel		They told me not to be like de la Cruz, but I didn't listen--
hctor		Hey, it's okay...
miguel		I told them I didn't care if they remembered me. I didn't care if I was on their stupid ofrenda.
hctor		Hey, chamaco, it's okay.         It's okay.
miguel		I told them I didn't care.
hctor		Hhuuh!
miguel		Hctor!   Hctor--
hctor		She's... forgetting me.
miguel		Who?
hctor		My daughter...
miguel		She's the reason you wanted to cross the bridge...
hctor		I just wanted to see her again...  My Coco...
miguel		Coco?
hctor		Where... where did you get this?
miguel		That's my Mam Coco. That's my Mam Imelda. Is that... you?
hctor		We're...
hctor		I always hoped I'd see her again. That she'd miss me... maybe put up my photo. But it never happened.  But she's the last person who remembers me. The moment she's gone from the living world...
miguel		You disappear... from this one. You'll never get to see her...
hctor		...Ever again.
hctor		You know, I wrote her a song once. We used to sing it every night at the same time, no matter how far apart we were. What I wouldn't give to sing it to her... one last time.
hctor		 REMEMBER ME THOUGH I HAVE TO SAY GOODBYE REMEMBER ME DON'T LET IT MAKE YOU CRY FOR EVEN IF I'M FAR AWAY I HOLD YOU IN MY HEART I SING A SECRET SONG TO YOU EACH NIGHT WE ARE APART REMEMBER ME
young coco		 Pap!
hctor		 THOUGH I HAVE TO TRAVEL FAR REMEMBER ME EACH TIME YOU HEAR A SAD GUITAR
miguel		He stole your guitar... He stole your songs... 
hctor		I didn't write "Remember Me" for the world... I wrote it for Coco. I'm a pretty sorry excuse for a great-great grandpa.
miguel		Are you kidding? A minute ago I thought I was related to a murderer. You're a total upgrade!
miguel		My whole life, there's been something that made me different... and I never knew where it came from.  I'm proud we're family!
hctor		TRRRRRRAAAAAI-HAAAI-HAAAAAY! I'm proud to be HIS family!
miguel		Dante?
miguel		Dante!    It's Dante!
hctor		Imelda!
mam imelda		 Hctor.
hctor		You look good...
miguel		Dante, you knew he was my Pap Hctor the whole time! You ARE a real spirit guide!  Who's a good spirit guide? You are!
miguel		Whoa...
miguel		Dante!
pap julio		Look, there they are!
family		Miguel! / Miguelito! / Ay, gracias a Dios! / It's Miguel! / He's all right! / Oh thank goodness! / Gracias, Dios mo!
mam imelda		Mijo, I was so worried! Thank goodness we found you in time!
mam imelda		And you! How many times must I turn you away?
hctor		Imelda--
mam imelda		I want nothing to do with you. Not in life, not in death!  I spent decades protecting my family from your mistakes. He spends five minutes with you and I have to fish him out of a sinkhole!
miguel		I wasn't in there `cause of Hctor. He was in there `cause of me.  He was just trying to get me home... I didn't wanna listen, but he was right... nothing is more important than family.
mam imelda		What?
miguel		So he can see Coco again.        Hctor should be on our ofrenda.        He's part of our family--
mam imelda		He left this family!
miguel		He tried to go home to you and Coco... but de la Cruz murdered him!
hctor		It's true, Imelda.
mam imelda		And so what if it's true? You leave me alone with a child to raise and I'm just supposed to forgive you?
hctor		Imelda, I--
miguel		Hctor?
hctor		I'm running out of time.         It's Coco...
mam imelda		She's forgetting you...
miguel		You don't have to forgive him... But we shouldn't forget him.
mam imelda		 I wanted to forget you. I wanted Coco to forget you too, but--
hctor		This is my fault, not yours.  I'm sorry, Imelda.
mam imelda		Miguel, if we help you get his photo... you will return home?          No more music?
miguel		Family comes first.
mam imelda		I -- I can't forgive you.        But I will help you.
mam imelda		 So how do we get to de la Cruz?
miguel		I might know a way...
on stage		 Frida's performance piece begins. Dramatic symphonic music plays as a giant papaya appears to ignite on stage. The "seeds" in the body of the papaya unfurl to reveal that they are dancers, each dressed like Frida Kahlo, right down to the painted on unibrow.  The dancers roll out of the "flaming" papaya and gyrate their bodies nonsensically.  A giant cactus that resembles Frida is illuminated, and all the dancers slink to it.  In the midst of this, eight familiar looking dancers  inch their way out of the spotlights and to the wings of the stage.
frida		Good luck, muchacho.
miguel		Gracias Frida!
miguel		Ow!
hctor		Here, let me help you with--
mam imelda		Don't touch me.
miguel		Everyone clear on the plan?
ta victoria		Find Hctor's photo.
pap julio		Give it to Miguel.
mam imelda		Send Miguel home.
hctor		Got your petals?
mam imelda		Now, we just have to find de la Cruz--
mam imelda		Ah!
mam imelda		That's for murdering the love of my life!
hctor		She's talking about me!  I'm the love of your life?
mam imelda		I don't know! I'm still angry at you.
mam imelda		And that's for trying to murder my grandson!
miguel		She's talking about me!
miguel		The photo!
mam imelda		After him!
hctor		You said "love of your life..."
mam imelda		I don't know WHAT I said!
miguel		That's what I heard...
stagehand		Places, seor, you're on in 30 seconds!
mam imelda		Miguel!   I have it!
miguel		Hurry, come on!
on stage		 ANNOUNCER  Ladies and gentlemen... the one, the only... ERNESTO DE LA CRUZ!
crowd member		Nesto!
mam imelda		 AY DE M, LLORONA LLORONA DE AZUL CELESTE...
mam imelda		AY DE M, LLORONA LLORONA DE AZUL CELESTE...
mam imelda		Y AUNQUE LA VIDA ME CUESTE, LLORONA, NO DEJAR DE QUERERTE. NO DEJAR DE QUERERTE!
mam imelda		ME SUB AL PINO MS ALTO, LLORONA, A VER SI TE DIVISABA.
mam imelda		COMO EL PINO ERA TIERNO, LLORONA AL VERME LLORAR, LLORABA. 
mam imelda		Let go of me!
mam imelda		I forgot what that felt like.
hctor		You... still got it.
miguel		Ahem.
mam imelda		Oh!
mam imelda		Miguel, I give you my blessing.
miguel		Never play music again...
mam imelda		To never... forget how much your family loves you.
hctor		You're going home.
hctor		Imelda--
miguel		Dante!
hctor		 Ernesto, stop! Leave the boy alone!
hctor		He's a living child, Ernesto!
stadium		 The image of de la Cruz holding Miguel hostage is projected on the stadium screens, the audience falls to a hush as they watch.  BACK TO:
miguel		You're a coward!
miguel		Hctor's the real musician, you're just the guy who murdered him and stole his songs!
crowd		Murder?
miguel		AHHH!
hctor		NO!
mam imelda		Miguel!
stadium		 The audience gasps.     Some shrieks.  BACK TO:
crowd		Boo!    Murderer!
audience member		Get off the stage!
crowd member		Look!
crowd member		He's alright!
crowd member		What did I miss?
miguel		Good boy, Dante.
mam imelda		Miguel!
miguel		Hctor!   The photo, I lost it...
hctor		It's okay, mijo. It's--
miguel		Hctor!    Hctor?!
hctor		Coco...
miguel		No!   We can still find the photo...
mam imelda		Miguel, it's almost sunrise!
miguel		No, no, no, I can't leave you. I promised I'd put your photo up. I promised you'd see Coco!
hctor		We're both out of time, mijo.
miguel		No, no... she can't forget you!
hctor		I just wanted her to know that I loved her.
miguel		Hctor--
hctor		You have our blessing, Miguel.
mam imelda		No conditions.
miguel		No, Pap Hctor, please!
miguel		No...
hctor		Go home...
miguel		I promise I won't let Coco forget you! Aaahh!--
to berto		 There he is!
pap		Miguel!?   Stop!
abuelita		Where have you been?!
miguel		Ah! I need to see Mam Coco, please--
abuelita		What are you doing with that?     Give it to me!
abuelita		Miguel!   Stop! Miguel!      Miguel! Miguel!   MIGUEL!
miguel		Mam Coco?     Can you hear me?   It's Miguel.
miguel		Here -- this was his guitar, right? He used to play it to you? See, there he is.
miguel		Mam Coco, please, don't forget him.
abuelita		What are you doing to that poor woman?
abuelita		It's okay, Mamita, it's okay.
pap		What's gotten into you?
pap		I thought I'd lost you, Migue...
miguel		I'm sorry, Pap.
mam		We're all together now, that's what matters.
miguel		Not all of us...
abuelita		It's okay, mamita.  Miguel, you apologize to your Mam Coco!
miguel		Mam Coco...
abuelita		Well?   Apologize.
miguel		Mam Coco? Your pap -- he wanted you to have this.
pap		Mam, wait--
miguel		 REMEMBER ME THOUGH I HAVE TO SAY GOODBYE REMEMBER ME DON'T LET IT MAKE YOU CRY
mam		Look...
miguel		FOR EVEN IF I'M FAR AWAY, I HOLD YOU IN MY HEART I SING A SECRET SONG TO YOU EACH NIGHT WE ARE APART 
mam coco		Elena?   What's wrong, mija?
abuelita		Nothing Mam. Nothing at all.
mam coco		My pap used to sing me that song.
miguel		He loved you, Mam Coco.         Your pap loved you so much.
mam coco		I kept... his letters... poems he wrote me... and...
mam coco		Pap was a musician. When I was a little girl, he and Mam would sing such beautiful songs...
departures agent		Next!
departures agent		Enjoy your visit, Hctor!
mam coco		Pap!
hctor		Coco!
miguel		 OUR LOVE FOR EACH OTHER WILL LIVE ON FOREVER IN EVERY BEAT OF MY PROUD CORAZN
miguel		 AY MI FAMILIA! OIGA MI GENTE! CANTEN A CORO! LET IT BE KNOWN... OUR LOVE FOR EACH OTHER WILL LIVE ON FOREVER IN EVERY BEAT OF MY PROUD CORAZN
miguel		 AY MI FAMILIA! OIGA ME GENTE! CANTEN A CORO! LET IT BE KNOWN... OUR LOVE FOR EACH OTHER WILL LIVE ON FOREVER IN EVERY BEAT OF MY PROUD CORAZN
****Dialogues from script :Code_of_Silence.txt****

story by		 Michael Butler & Dennis Shryack
shooting draft		 1985
spider		Say, hey, Cub fans, I hope to hell y'all down there cause we got a big game today.
donato		 O.K. Home Team. Ready in the bullpen.
eddie		Where's Cragie?
kosalas		 Ready sir. Left Field in position.
cragie		Have a shot, kid. A little nerve tonic.
kosalas		What's the matter with you?
kobas		 Just turning on Paulina.
spider		How y'all doin?
eddie		Found you a present.
donato		Shit, those things will fuck up your mind.
cragie		If you gotta take a leak, do it now.
kosalas		I can't go wading in with my shlong flapping in the wind.
cragie		Sure you can. It's called diversionary tactics.
music		What the hell is this cat up to?
brennan		Going to work asshole. What do you think.
music		At this hour.
brennan		They got a hardass for a boss. Like us.
spider		This be better than jukin' Seven- Elevens, huh Victor?
victor		 I don't juke anybody.
doc		I say, awright. The royal colors.
luna		Okay, by the numbers.
eddie		 Everybody on your toes.
eddie		 What the hell you talking about?
eddie		Painters? That building's gonna be condemned!
eddie		 Play Ball! Play-fucking-ball!
donato		 Home Team! We're goin in! Move it! Move it!
kosalas		I knew it.
eddie		 Police! No se mueve!
donato		They're goin out the front!
kosalas		Cragie?!
cragie		It's O.K. I got the sonovabitch.
cragie		 Police! Stay where you are!
eddie		Take it easy, Kosalas.
cragie		The kid didn't dust him. I did.
cragie		Him or me, Sarge.  The kid saw the whole thing.
cragie		Tell him, Nick.
kosalas		 Yeah, that's how it went down.
eddie		 Take care of your partner.
victor		 Call Luis.
kobas		Get these people back out of here, wouldja.
cragie		Look, it's no big thing, Kid. A friggin' dog and pony show. Some dumb ass questions by dumb ass bureaucrats. "When's the last time you were at the range?" Crap like that.
kosalas		Look. It was a fuckin' accident. Why can't you just be --
cragie		 We stick together on this, kid. We're partners, right?
donato		Aw man, don't do that. You know how much these things cost?
donato		Eddie. Scam this. A bait shop. Worms, minnows. Don't even need real worms. Storage problem. Got those rubber ones, you know?
eddie		Yeah, what about the winter?
donato		We winter in Florida. Rubber neck the beach bunnies. Aw, look at that. Ruined my brand new fence climbers. Hand made in Italy.
donato		Oh, fuck, Partida. I'm gonna tell her you shot me.
partida		Cusack. You were in charge here?
eddie		Does it look like it?
partida		 And you were a principal in one of the shootings?
donato		OW! A goddamn Dr. Jekyll!
partida		Where's the officer who was involved in the other shooting?
eddie		 Third floor rear.
eddie		Catch you later, Hopalong.
music		 You know that, Efren. When your big bad brother Luis gets the word, your ass is freeze dried and fried.
brennan		Talk you hemorrhoid!
pompas		 Your mother fucks dogs in the street.
brennan		You wanna tune-up? Hey Sarge, you know why a Comacho's like a cue-ball? Cause the harder you hit 'em, the better their English gets.
eddie		We're jerking off here.
sanchez		Let's cut the shit, Cusack.
sanchez		Option 1: you can send em downtown. If Judge Collins didn't get laid last night, you can probably get him to arraign my clients for loitering in their own hallway. He'll set bail. I'll take care of it. Option 2: release them here and now and we'll call it a day.  Up to you.
eddie		I like to see you earn your money.
cragie		We come up the back stairs. We start cleanin' the hallway when the deceased pops out of a doorway with a 25 automatic. I tell him to drop it, but he's comin. We had no choice. Kosalas here saw the whole thing.
kates		Did you?
kosalas		I was on another doorway...
kates		But you saw the action?
kosalas		I saw him fall.
kates		And the kid was armed?
kosalas		That's the way it went down.
kates		And you saw the weapon?
kosalas		 Yes sir. I saw it in his hand.
kates		O.K.  Cragie, you'll be assigned to headquarters until the hearing --
cragie		Hearing? Who called for a hearing? The little fuck tried to shoot me in the back!
kates		Ms. Partida --
cragie		That piece of shit!
kates		Shut-up, Cragie.  An OPS Review Board member is waiting to talk to you. Doesn't sound like you got anything to worry about.
kates		Kosalas, you work with Cusack until this is over.
kosalas		Yes sir.
eddie		I ain't got no time to nursmaid a rookie. I don't need a partner.
kates		 You're going to have me back on a beat busting perverts in the park.
eddie		We got a bigger problem. These Comachos aren't gonna take this lying down. The animals are out of the cages.
kates		Just what I need. A goddman war.
kates		Keep track of this business with Cragie?
eddie		Yeah.
kates		I'll deal with upstairs.
kates		Just get me some answers, huh.
eddie		That's my job.
partida		...you have the right to remain silent. You have the right to have an attorney present at all times. Anything you say may be used against you in a court of law...
eddie		I'm going to have to fix that.
eddie		You know, it's kind of interesting. That 16 year old in the hallway with the gun? Partida told me he doesn't have a record. The kid's never been arrested.
kosalas		Yeah, well, you know, if you read the papers, cops only shoot honor students. Sole support of the family and all that.
kosalas		Nice fellow this Luis Comacho. Donato says they call him the Angel-of-Death.
eddie		Real sweetheart.
diana		No!
diana		Mama!
diana		Daddy, would you get that!
theresa		Bella.
diana		Keep 'em closed now.
diana		O.K., open 'em.
diana		Happy birthday, momma.
theresa		 Happy birthday, Molly.
tony luna		Molly! Pack me a bag! Quick! Ok? C'mon I'm in a hurry!
molly		But Tony, why...?
tony luna		Business! C'mon, move. Do what I tell you!
diana		Don't do it, momma! Make him pack his own bag.
tony luna		I ain't got time to put up with your bullshit today.
diana		Listen goddammit! It's momma's birthday! She deserves better'n this!
gamiani		Hey, Tony. What's shaking? Sorry I'm late. I got stuck on Wacker. Some spook...
tony luna		Victor Comacho is alive.
gamiani		Oh sweet Jesus.
diana		You can't go now.
tony luna		Shut up!
tony luna		Put someone on the house. And you keep an eye on her.
gamiani		You got it, Tony. What about your uncle?
tony luna		What Felix don't know doesn't hurt him.
tony luna		Here. Happy birthday.
odell		Bow to your master!
eddie		Later, Odell. It's been a rough one.
odell		Y' tellin me! We all seen it on the TV!
eddie		Bow to your master.
eddie		Hey, Odell. Here, make yourself crazy.
pirelli		You look like shit.
eddie		Thanks, pal.
pirelli		They had a shot on the tube of you guys comin' out in front of the building. How's Donato?
eddie		Pissed cause he lost a shoe.  Luis Comacho is in town.
pirelli		He'll collect himself some scalps before this one's over. Your answering machine is on the fritz again. Some woman with a fantastic voice was callin' about comin' over this weekend ta help you with somthin', and then the tape went nuts.
eddie		Want somthin' to drink?
pirelli		Does the Pope shit in the woods? Is a bear Catholic?
odell		Me too.
eddie		I hate smart ass kids.
pirelli		Gonna get down in the 30's tonight. Your pilot light is out.
eddie		I've been told that more than once.
pirelli		 So, who you figure pulled out the rug? Gypsies? Mob?
eddie		Somebody knew what they were doin'. They blew the top off an anthill.
pirelli		I'd figure the Mob but Scalese ain't that stupid.  Hah! Sombody put the valve in backwards.
odell		Later, fellas.
pirelli		There. Heat.
eddie		What was the Cubs final score?
pirelli		Machines just don't like you.
eddie		Maybe I don't like machines.
voice		 Arretez! Halten Zie! Stop! Do not move! No se mueve!...
engineer		...After the gyros are locked, any movement of the hand controller is duplicated by the 'Prowler.'
engineer		This simple control system means that even semi-skilled employees can operate the unit with a minimum of training. As they say, "Even a child can operate it."
kates		He's talking about you, Cusack. Pay attention. You're all gonna have to be qualified on this. It's the future.
eddie		Just what the world needs, another gun without a brain.
kates		You're looking at the perfect cop. The damn thing follows orders.
eddie		I got better things to do than play with toys.
engineer		If the Commander will pick someone to try and elude 'Prowler,' we can show how our various target acquisition systems function.
machine		 Bang. You're dead.
eddie		Drop it.
sanchez		 A war does no good for any of us. It can only make what is bad worse.
luis		 Get them out of here. Fix them up. I want them to be beautiful for their mother.
luis		 I promise you, my brothers, there will be blood for blood.
victor		 This is the cop.
luis		How much did they pay you to set up my brothers, Pig.
eddie		Stay off my streets, asshole. Or I'll bite your head off, and shit in your neck.
luis		 You're meat cop! Dead meat!
flannigan		Eenie Verona is the gentleman's name.  You did a hell of a job on him.
eddie		I was motivated.
flannigan		Know him?
eddie		He's a punk. Punk thief. Booster.
flannigan		Looks like he graduated.
eddie		He had a brother-in-law. They were tight. Served time together. Ganelli..., Gagleone...
kosalas		Gamiani.
flannigan		If I was you, I'd sit on him.
kosalas		You figure he's connected?
flannigan		Looks like you're gonna be busy, Cusack. Uh, you gonna be using those Cubs' tickets?
kosalas		This Ganiani's a swinger, huh?
eddie		He's just makin' up for the time he spent in the joint.
kosalas		Now what? They selling protection to the bears?
eddie		Relax kid.
diana		Be back in a minute.
diana		What do you want?
lou		Your Papa worries about you.
diana		Get out of here, Lou. Leave me alone.
eddie		Hold here a second.
eddie		Keep with Gamiani.
kosalas		Bang a few for me.
eddie		Wanna play ball?
diana		Are you pitching?
eddie		Some people say I've got a pretty good inside curve.
diana		I don't know. You look strictly minor league.
eddie		I'm Eddie.
diana		I make it Eddie-The-Cop.
eddie		You've had a lot of experience with cops?
diana		All bad.
eddie		You'll get slivers.
diana		Hey, what the hell do you think you're doing?
eddie		I thought you knew all about cops. You don't put anything up your nose do you?
eddie		Diana Luna?  You're Tony Luna's daughter?
diana		I don't know where he is, and I don't really give a shit.  When are you people going to realize I don't have anything to do with my father.
eddie		For when you need a friend.
diana		I've got all the friends I want.
eddie		But do you have all the friends you need?
eddie		 Yeah. Crazy Tony Luna. I don't think he's around, but if he shows up bring him in.
eddie		 Catch you later.
officer		Police! Open up!
kobas		For Christ's sake! You tryin to get your partner killed, Jackson?
brennan		 Hey, Mahoney. I want you to help me get some signatures on this letter for Cragie.
cragie		Way to go, partner.
howard		Let's try the mitts for awhile.
donato		Say, partner.
eddie		How ya doing, Richie?
donato		Swinging. How's this? Two G's, we get a sausage and beef stand stand outside Wrigley Field. You pass the beef, I take the cash. Free games. I got a contact downtown.
eddie		How you gonna watch the game if you're hawking sandwiches?
donato		Never thought of that. TV? Hey, I tell you about this nurse I met? Talk about physical therapy.
donato		She's got this friend just dying to meet you. Intensive care.
donato		 Later, partner.
brennan		Hey, Cusack. How about taking the gloves off long enough to sign this for Cragie.
eddie		This about the hearing?
brennan		You bet.
eddie		I pass.
brennan		 What the fuck's the matter with you?
eddie		He's burnt, Brennan, and you know it. He was a good cop, but he ain't now.
brennan		Get off your high horse, Cusack. He made a couple of mistakes, OK. The guy was a hero. What the fuck does a bunch of civilians know about comin' up some shithouse stairway day after day, scared outta your shorts.
eddie		We're all scared, Brennan. Cragie should have been off the street a long time ago. He's gonna hurt somebody else with his bullshit. Maybe even you.
music		 The funeral director says they plan on cruisin right past luna's house.
kosalas		 They're wastin' the show. Tony's not even in town.
eddie		He'll get the word.
luna		 I give a shit about their fuckin parade?
luna		 They wanna throw flowers we can fix it so they're pushing up daisys.
kosalas		I can back you up.
eddie		Stay by the radio.
rocco		What the hell you doin' here? Off, asshole.
scalese		 Listen. If you have some extra cash, buy oranges. The price is low, and I can promise you the threatened trucking strike will be avoided.
eddie		We talking about a bribe, Scalese?
scalese		It's a prediction.
scalese		No. I wouldn't try to bribe Eddie Cusack.
scalese		You're incorruptible. Untarnished. I hear they call you stainless steel on the street. Me, I think you're a fuckin' pain in the ass.
eddie		Thanks.
scalese		 It's not a compliment.
eddie		I'm looking for your nephew.
scalese		Tony? Forget it. Tony Luna's none of your business.
eddie		Wrong. Tony just made himself my business.
scalese		No he didn't. We take care of our own. Just like the cops. Just like the Comachos. You understand.
eddie		He shit on my turf, old man. And I'm going to nail him and anybody else tied to him. You understand, Felix?
scalese		 Nobody threatens Felix Scalese.
eddie		 It's not a threat. It's a prediction.
eddie		There's a shitstorm coming. You better get yourself a good umbrella.
music		Tony Luna's bagman.
music		They call that a Columbian necktie.
music		They found the manager of Tony's restaurant hanging from a hook in his kitchen. Looked like someone tried to carve a canoe out of him. Tony's used car lot on Ashland is burning as we speak. The head salesman is a fried zuccini.
kosalas		Oh Jesus. It's starting.
eddie		Let's go.
kosalas		Music's at the scene.
eddie		 Was there a girl? Late teens. Reddish hair.
pompas		Come on, Chika. We gonna have some fun. You gonna take us to your father.
eddie		Pompas, you're getting to be a fucking pain in the ass.
eddie		Let her go, pooch.
angel		Another step, and I take her head off.
eddie		You don't have the balls.
diana		Where are you taking me?
eddie		Downtown first. Then I'm gonna place you in protective custody.
diana		The hell you are!
eddie		You'll be safe --
diana		I'll take my chances.
pirelli		 Keep your goddamn pants on!
pirelli		This your idea of a social call?
eddie		Fred Pirelli, this is Diana. Diana Luna.
pirelli		C'mon, kid. Let's get you off your feet.
eddie		Can you put her up till I find her old man?
pirelli		Does a bear...?
eddie		Am I putting you on the spot?
pirelli		I spent 30 years on the spot. What ever you need.
diana		Eddie?
eddie		I'll be right across the hall. I'm just gonna clean up.
kosalas		 Yeah, at Mike's.
music		You oughta crash, man. You had a helluva day.
first hood		Love it, Flash. Gonna be a slide. Easy in, easy out.
second hood		Just a quick and dirty?
first hood		Yeah, yeah, nothin to it. You know the drill.
donato		He picks her up on Forty-third, and he's takin' in. She says, "Say, baby. Ain't no need for goin' downtown." An' she pulls back her skirt. So the dumb shit climbs in the back an' takes a piece...  ...an' leaves the keys in the front and locks the two of 'em in the squad. And he hasta kick out the window see, an' she starts screamin', "Rape! Rape!" An' they charge him with rape an' every other fuckin' thing in the book. Internal Affairs is gonna give him a kayak and a lantern an' put him out in the lake.
second hood		Bartender. Gimme a black russian and a Courvoisier.
first hood		 Yo! Get your hands up motherfuckers. This is a ho --
second hood		 You stupid motherfucker.
second hood		My old lady tol' me you was fucked up in the head. Do I listen? Piece o cake, you say. Snap, you say. Nothin to it, you say.
cop		Shut up over there.
donato		Eddie! Partner! Meet Ruthie. Dental Hygienist. She's oral.
donato		And this is... Marlene. She works for a proctologist.
donato		Siddown, partner. I got a proposition for you.
eddie		Not now, Donato.
donato		O.K. O.K. But just let me plant two words in your brain. Alligator farming.
kosalas		Beer?
kosalas		Looks like I'm caught between the rock and the hard place, Sarge.
kosalas		You know I really wanted to be a good cop, but... shit. It's hard enough sometimes just to stay alive. Comes so easy to you. You got all the fuckin' answers. Me, I'm still tryin' to find the questions.
kosalas		Cragie planted the gun on the kid. Just wasted him, and then I... I don't know what to do about the hearing tomorrow...
eddie		Tell the truth.
kosalas		See. It's all so nothin' for you. If I talk straight every cop on the force will shit on me. If I don't... Cragie gets away with murder.
eddie		And the chance to do it again. Next time he might take away a cop. That make any difference?
kosalas		He's my partner.
eddie		Your partner's selling you out, Kosalas. He kills an unarmed kid, and now he's risking your ass to save his own.
kosalas		It was a mistake.
eddie		It cost an innocent kid his life.
kosalas		I know that! I KNOW THAT!
kosalas		 Jesus. I see that kid's face every time I close my eyes.
eddie		Tell 'em like it is, Nick. I'll back you up.
cragie		Nice to see you out with the boys for a change, Sarge.
eddie		Hello, Cragie.
cragie		They tell me my Sergeant wouldn't sign for me. You want to tell me why?
eddie		You know why.
cragie		No. Tell me.
eddie		 You were a good cop for a lot of years. You've passed your limit now Cragie.
cragie		Fuck you. Where do you get off?
eddie		Right about here.
pirelli		She's havin' a bad night. Gave her a shot of brandy. Maybe she'll sleep.
eddie		Giving liquor to a minor, Pirelli?
eddie		I'll be back right after the hearing tomorrow, and you can get some sleep then.
diana		What do you do when you don't have anyone?
eddie		You find someone.
diana		Could you... Hold me for a while?
clerk		In the next doorway. Four meters.
donato		How you doin', Sarge?
eddie		What's the score?
donato		 Kid's grandmother says Cragie threw down the pistola.
partida		 Officer Cragie, you have heard Mrs. Murillio's testimony --
cragie		Yes, sir.
partida		You have heard her tell this panel that she saw you lay the gun in her grandson's hand.
cragie		I'm not saying the woman would make this up. But there's no way she could have seen anything from where she was standing in a hallway that dark.  Like you said, she's the boy's grandmother.
partida		If it was dark, Officer, how were you sure Vega had a gun?
cragie		We were lucky. There was a glint of light, a reflection comin off the barrel of the weapon.
donato		You think he'll get a pass?
eddie		You heard it all. What do you think?
donato		If the hearing was over I'd have to put my money on the old lady.  But Kosalas's next. My bet's on Cragie.
eddie		The kid may surprise you.
partida		And right after you heard Officer Cragie's gun discharge, what did you do then?
kosalas		I immediately advanced down the hall.
partida		And what did you see?
kosalas		The deceased, Vega, lying on the floor. Officer Cragie was checking his vital signs.
partida		What happened then?
kosalas		We recovered a .25 calibre automatic from the teenager's right hand.
partida		Did you see that weapon in Vega's hand before Officer Cragie fired?
kosalas		Yes, sir.
partida		No more questions.
partida		I'd like to now call Sergeant Cusack.
diana		You made that uniform look good.
pirelli		That good looking gorilla next to me is Eddie's father. Better than good cop. Killed in the line of duty. '71.  Another cop shot him. An accident.
eddie		I can't comment on that. It was over before I got there.
partida		You are his superior officer, are you not?
eddie		Cragie's in my unit, yes.
partida		Did you give the men their various assignments?
eddie		I did.
partida		Did you request that officer Cragie be on your TAC team?
eddie		No, I didn't.
partida		Sergeant... I have here a department document dated 24 September, of last year. It is a request by you, to your superiors, to have Officer Cragie transferred to another unit. Are you familiar with this document?
eddie		Yes.
partida		Why did you request his transfer?
eddie		Maybe 30 years is too long for anyone to look at the city's guts, Mr. Partida.
partida		What happened to this request?
eddie		It was denied.
partida		This is a letter of support for Officer Cragie.  Why?
eddie		I don't agree with what it says.
partida		Are you saying you do not believe Officer Cragie is fit to work the streets of Chicago?
eddie		That's what I'm saying.
eddie		 I just dialed 348-6610, and I get this funny buzz. Check the line for me? Thanks.
brennan		Seems to me the man's got his tongue stuck to his asshole, Cragie.
cragie		Hey, that don't bother him. He's the fuckin White Knight.  You wanna take on the whole world by yourself? Now you're gonna get your chance, Sarge.
cop		He was a friend of yours wasn't he?
eddie		Yeah.
eddie		 Squad, this is 1462. I need a backup. Have 64 and 63 from TAC 4 meet me at the billiard parlor on 18th near Halsted. Questioning suspects.
brennan		 Ten-four, Dispatch. Unit 1463 responding.
brennan		I could use a cup of coffee.
heavy		Hey, you ain't got no business back there.
eddie		I want your opinion I'll beat it out of you.
eddie		Where is Luis?
degas		Get the hell out of here.
eddie		Talk to me, Degas, or I'll hit you with so many lefts you're gonna beg for a right.
degas		He's coming here. He's on his way.
dispatcher		We need a verification on a back-up
second dispatcher		Good luck finding a backup for that character.
luis		Take him apart.
cop		Fuck him.
luis		The sun comes up. You give me Luna, or the girl dies -- slow.
donato		I would have been here, Sarge. They kept it from me.
eddie		You're Ok, Hopalong.
donato		Listen, I'm havin' a drink with this friend of mine, name of Mickie. She works on a computer over in the Federal Building, FBI. I got here as soon as I heard.
eddie		They got Diana Luna.
donato		That's what I'm tryin' to tell ya. Mickie told me she read on the wire Tony Luna's comin' into Union Station at ten tonight.
tony luna		 Hello, Felix.
scalese		Hello, Tony.
scalese		 You see, Tony. You make no sense. You start a war... Waste people... Money... You're like a kid, Tony. You're a bad boy.
scalese		This sonovabitch is crazy!
eddie		You tell Luis I got Tony Luna for him. Get me a time and place.
luis		Your cop friend is smart. Too smart and he dies. Then I take care of you personally.
kates		What the hell is goin on?
brennan		Cusack made off with a truckload of armour.
music		 He's a fucking one man army now.
cragie		What'd I tell ya. The sonofabitch is crazy.
kates		OK, everybody. No more games. Where's Cusack.
kosalas		I can't swallow this shit! Eddie Cusack's out there takin' on the world by himself. And you fuckin' heros are gonna sit on your goddamn asses!
cragie		Cool it kid.
kosalas		Don't you fuckin' tell me to cool it. I won't cool it. I'm not going to fuckin' lie for you any more.  I lied, Commander. He laid a gun on that kid. I saw the whole thing.
cragie		You little fuckin' bastard!
kosalas		What's this for partner? Your next fuck up?
kates		 Get someone in the air. We're gonna find Cusack.
luis		 Take off the gag. I want them to hear her.
eddie		Here we go partner.
luis		 Now! Do it now! Kill her!
kates		That's Cusack.
kates		Hey, Cusack!
kates		I'm glad you don't follow orders.
****Dialogues from script :Cold_Mountain.txt****

swimmer		...This is your path. There is no other. That's a curse you can use on the Yankee before battle.
inman		And that works?
swimmer		You have to say it in Cherokee.
inman		You said it to me in Cherokee.
swimmer		So keep your head still.
inman		 Anyway, there won't be any war. And if there is, they say it won't last a week.
rourke		Don't worry, son. Those Yankee boys keep store hours. They ain't open yet.
butcher		That's fresh breakfast. Shoot him!
rourke		I'm not firing, start the damn war off.
rourke		That's my rabbit!
butcher		That was something! That's hell and we've been there! Kicked old Nick's asshole.
butcher		You got a charge?
stobrod		That's gold in his mouth he got no need for.  We take his boots.
oakley		I got a few. You saw?
inman		I saw.
oakley		I know you don't recognise me. I'm Mo Oakley's boy.  It's okay. I was thirteen when you all left. Am I going to die?
oakley		I'd like to hear some music while I go.
stobrod		What about Bonaparte's Retreat? That's one I play.
oakley		Play me something sweet. Like a girl's waiting for me.
oakley		Play me something like there's nothing to fear from a merciful Lord.
inman		 You heard him.
stobrod		 I only know a couple of tunes.
oakley		Like when you're thirsty up at Bishop's Creek and the water is so cool.
oakley		I'm reaching Cold Mountain before you.
officer		Don't get up, soldier. You are mentioned tonight in my report. You are a credit to the Highlands, to North Carolina and to the Cause.
inman		 Do you have news, sir, on my application for transfer?
officer		I know. A bloody day. It's what our General said: Good thing war is so terrible else a man might end up liking it too much.
inman		Sir. It was my understanding the medical corps was desperate for volunteers.
officer		Right now, soldier, it's me who is in need of volunteers. There's a dozen Yankees in that stand of trees between us. Stuck there from the retreat. Come daylight they can shoot us down for sport.
sally		 Ada, how are you settling in? Are you liking the farm?
ada		Very much. It's beautiful country.
sally		So listen -- if you would say hello to one of these fools, I'll get a field cleared this weekend.
ada		Anyone? Like a forfeit?
sally		 No. Him in particular, up in the rafters. Been pressing me all morning.
rourke		 I call this nail: a free nigger.
butcher		Show some respect -- these nails are making a church.
rourke		 I call this nail: respect the church.
ada		Hello.
ada		I'm Ada Monroe.
inman		I'm Inman.
ada		Inman?
inman		W. P. Inman.
ada		W. P. Inman.
inman		Repeating a thing doesn't improve it.  People call me Inman.
ada		If you were to take a glass of lemonade your friends might stop staring. Inman.
inman		They're not my friends.
inman		Thank you.
ada		And what do you do?
inman		I work wood. Got a piece of land. Mostly work wood.
ada		Clear fields?
inman		 I can clear a field.
ada		So, was there something in particular you wished to say to me?
inman		 I'll say thank you for the lemonade.
rourke		Esco loves the Yankees.
esco		I prefer a Yankee to a halfwit.
esco		What is it you think you'd be fighting for?
rourke		The South.
esco		And what's that when it's at home?
acton		Pop, you causing trouble?
esco		No.
ellis		That means yes.
esco		You cut the wood, you carry the water for good old King Cotton. Now you want to fight for him. Somebody has to explain it to me.
acton		 Don't even try.
butcher		How's the lemonade? Sweet?
sally		That's a fine looking thing.
ada		I've been missing it.
sally		Thank you, by the way.  Inman's down in the bottom field, clearing his debt.
ada		Oh dear. And then he had nothing to say.
sally		He was happy.
ada		Really?
sally		Are men so different in Charleston?
ada		Men? I don't know. I don't even know what a woman should be like. In Charleston I was called a thistle, twice, by two different men. Both of them -- they were hunting for a simile, what was I like -- and thistle came right to them.
sally		If you're saying you might like him, why not go down and say hello.
monroe		Esco, our friends there --  -- they helped build the Chapel?
esco		That's Teague and his boys. I'd recommend you kick them out except a man don't kick a snake. One time the Teague family owned the whole of Cold Mountain. My farm, your farm, all belonged to his grand-daddy. Teague wanted this place bad. You got it. He's here sniffing out an advantage.
monroe		There's no advantage here, but to celebrate a job well done. Cheers --  -- and thank you.
ada		Were you planning to come inside?
inman		I'm wetter than a fish.
ada		There's a good fire going.
inman		I'm all right.
ada		Somebody said you were enlisting.  Are you?
inman		If there's a war we'll all fight.
ada		 If there's a mountain we'll all climb, if there's an ocean we'll all drown.
inman		Call a thing a war makes it a challenge to some men.
ada		Did you get a picture made?
inman		Say again.
ada		A tintype, with your gun and your courage on display.
inman		You're laughing at me.
ada		I don't know you.
inman		You're always carrying a tray.
ada		I'm taking a drink over to the negroes in the barn.
inman		 I'll do that. I can't get much wetter.
monroe		Mr. Inman.
inman		Reverend.
monroe		What can I do for you?
inman		I have some sheet music. Belonged to my father. No use to me.
monroe		You must come in.
inman		I should probably get along.
ada		Mr. Inman is more comfortable outdoors. Perhaps we might take a walk.
monroe		A splendid idea.
monroe		 I want to get sheep into this field. A big field doesn't look right without sheep. You're a lucky fellow, Mr. Inman, you've had this view all your life.
inman		I think so.
monroe		It's a special view. I dragged my poor daughter to Cold Mountain from Charleston because of my Doctors -- they say my heart is weak -- so the air's meant to do me good. But it's the view I think heals.
monroe		I have to get on my visits. Can I offer you a ride back into town?
ada		Well, you have your war.
teague		Those who follow Lincoln, or preach abolition, best keep one eye open when they're sleeping, Old Bogey Man might get you!
inman		Are you the law all of a sudden?
teague		That's right, son. Home Guard for Haywood County. I'm the law from today. You all go fight now. We'll watch your sweethearts.
inman		You might be safer back in Charleston.
ada		But then who'll be waiting for you?
inman		I'm going to walk back inside the Chapel.
monroe		Did you want a quiet word?
inman		Just some quiet.
monroe		Of course Ada.
monroe		 I'll daresay Dr. O'Brien'll want to do a test or two.
ada		And then there'll be a coffee or two, a brandy or two...
ada		I found you this book. William Bartram. They tell me it's good. I think he writes about these parts, the author, so...
ada		And this...  I'm not smiling in it. I don't know how to do that, hold a smile, so now I'm solemn...
inman		Ada...
ada		What?
rourke		Let's go!
inman		I'm not dying.
stobrod		 What'd he say?
pangle		Says he ain't about to die.
stobrod		 Truth to tell they say you are, Soldier. We'll meet again, in the better world.
teague		My condolences to you all.  Keep an eye on the negro. They want what the white man got -- all of you watch out your brave boys give their lives to war and meantime your slaves carry murder, rape and arson to your firesides.
monroe		The only slaves within twenty miles labor on my farm. They're good Christians and I'll vouchsafe for them.
ada		What?
monroe		You're looking -- at this moment, I don't know why -- you're looking exactly like your mother.
ada		Every time you see the doctor you get melancholy.
monroe		He listens to my heart and I get emotional.
ada		He gives you alcohol and you get emotional.
monroe		We commiserate about the folly of this terrible war.  From Mr. Inman?
ada		Yes. But then I've tried counting the number of words which passed between Mr. Inman and me.  Is that a bonfire? So close to the barns.
ada		What's going on?
monroe		 Hey! Stop there! Hey!
monroe		Dear God.
ada		No, Daddy, it's not real.
monroe		 What is wrong with us all?
ada		I'll get help.  Keep away from the flames.
doctor		Most of these men will be dead by the morning or, if they're stubborn, by nightfall. I have other men outside in the quadrangle waiting for the beds.
doctor		So, any kind word will be a blessing.
doctor		It's the heat. I'm sorry. They rot.
doctor		Don't pray. If they're not God fearing you can stir up a hornet's nest.
inman		Pigeon River. Little East Fork.
doctor		They ramble. Names of loved ones.
doctor		This man is dead.
monroe		Thank you.  For your Providence, Oh lord, we thank you.
ada		Amen. That was the last of the ham.
monroe		It was delicious.
ada		I have to learn how to cook.
monroe		I was going to say something in Chapel. Perhaps some of the womenfolk will volunteer.
ada		I can't have people coming here and cooking for me!
monroe		It's my fault. I should have raised you less like a companion and more like a young woman. I'm sorry.
ada		I'm not sorry, but I don't know how we'll get through another winter.
monroe		Will you play me something? Something peaceful while I look over my sermon.
ada		 Daddy, bring the tablecloth in with you!
ada		Daddy, come inside before you drown!
official		-- Any man takes in a deserter is likewise guilty of treason.
official		The Home Guard is powered to enter any place it sees fit, without notice or constraint. Names of all deserters will be posted in every town, published in every newspaper.
ada		Is there a letter for me?
ada		I know. Thank you so much.
ada		What do you hear?
teague		It's taken me too long, but I've come to pay my respects.
ada		Thank you.
teague		 I reckoned you might need fattening up.
teague		This house must bring bad luck. Killed my granddaddy to lose it, then my daddy died on account of not having it, then your daddy died on account of getting it. We should burn it down.
ada		Didn't somebody try?
teague		Lot to manage without help. Need a hand with that pump?
ada		No.
teague		I'm happy to volunteer.
ada		But not to volunteer for the war?
teague		The war? I wanted to go. But you know: too old, too literate. Plus I got no spleen. Lost it from a horse's kick.
ada		You've got no spleen.
teague		That's the thing about an organ. You don't know you need it till you lost it.  I want to clear this path. I can just as soon do it and talk as stand around and talk. Then you can say men beat a path to your door.
ada		I'd really prefer it if you didn't do that.
teague		Would you rather I did my job?  See if there's any material I should confiscate. For the war effort.
ada		I was raised in the good manners of the South where a gentleman doesn't enter a house with a woman alone.
teague		 And you're sleeping all right? These cold dark nights?
ada		I'm sleeping fine.
teague		It's going to be a long hard winter.
sally		Ada! Ada, It's Sally.
esco		Will you look at the state of this place!
sally		Poor soul. She's got nobody and nothing and three hundred acres of misery.
blind man		Getting better all the time.
inman		Seems that way.
blind man		I wouldn't hurry. War's almost done.
inman		Where'd you take your wound?
blind man		Before I was born. Never saw a thing in this world, not a tree a gun or a woman. Though I put my hand on all three. Couple of things I felt back there I'd sure liked to have had a long look at.
inman		What would you give for that? To have your eyeballs back for ten minutes?
blind man		Ten minutes! Wouldn't give an Indian head cent. I fear it might turn me hateful.
inman		That's sure what seeing's done to me.
blind man		That ain't the way I meant it. You said ten minutes. It's having a thing and then the loss I'm talking about.
inman		Then we don't agree. There's not much I wouldn't give for ten minutes of someplace.
blind man		Someplace or someone.
inman		Same difference.
blind man		You watch yourself. They're shooting men who take themselves a walk.
barber		Next.
barber		 I'll cut your hair, but I ain't about to shave you. That thing opens up, your head's liable to falloff.
sally		You're skinny as a whippet, girl -- you're coming indoors with me.
ada		I can't. I'm not -- I need to clean some clothes.
sally		Great God, you ever looked at my husband! I can't get him to wear decent Church clothes Christmas morning. Hang on to me, the wind'll blow you over.
sally		Don't go back to that dark house. There's a bed here, least till our boys get home.
esco		That your daddy's coat?
ada		I was saying to Sally, I wasn't expecting to be visiting, so...
esco		Don't suit you.
esco		I can't get up to your place this week.  She's mad at me --
ada		I don't expect -
esco		-- more than I can do to keep this place half-managed. I'm ready-to stop, I tell you. I just want to sit on my porch with Sal, watch my boys in the field, holler good job! every hour or so.
sally		What about your people in Charleston?
ada		There are no people. And no money. My father had some bonds and investments. They're worthless now, of course, the war has... they're not worth anything.  I love it here. In spite of everything.
esco		And waiting on a feller.
esco		Look down our well.  You do it! Don't make that face.
sally		I know it ain't rightly Christian, but it's what folks do, like when they dangle a needle over the belly to see if you're carrying a boy or a girl.
ada		What kind of mirror?
esco		See anything?
ada		I don't know.
sally		I tried many a time, never saw a dickybird.
sally		You all right?
ruby		If that letter ain't urgent, the cow is -- is what I'm saying.
ada		I don't know you.
ruby		Old Lady Swanger says you need some help. Here I am.
ada		I need help, I need, I do need help, but I need a laborer -- there's plowing and rough work and -- I think there's been a misunderstanding.
ruby		What's the rake for?
ada		The rake?
ruby		Ain't for gardening, that's for sure. Number one -- you got a horse I can plow all day. I'm a worker. Number two there's no man better than me cause there's no man around who ain't old or full of mischief. I know your plight.
ada		My plight?
ruby		Am I hard to hear cause you keep repeating everything. I'm not looking for money, never cared for it and now it ain't worth nothing. I expect to board and eat at the same table. I'm not a servant. Do you get my meaning?
ada		You're not a servant.
ruby		People'll have to empty their own night jars, that's my point.
ada		Right.
ruby		And I'm not planning to work while you watch neither.
ada		Right.
ruby		Is that a yes or a no?
ada		 Yes.
ruby		There's half the day yet. Let's make a start. My name's Ruby. I know your name.
ada		The rake: there's a rooster devil, I'm sure of it. He's Lucifer himself. I go near him he's at me with his spurs.
ruby		I despise a flogging rooster. Where is he?
ruby		Let's put him in a pot.
inman		Hey!  I'd pay a dollar for an egg. A piece of cheese.
ruby		Ada? Ada? You up?
ada		Yes.  It's still dark.
ruby		Tell the cows that. It's late.
ada		I have to eat something.
ruby		Then you have to get up earlier.  What's that?
ada		A novel.
ruby		 You want to carry a book carry one you can write in --
ruby		-- we got our own story. Called Black Cove Farm: a catastrophe.
ruby		I can spell it, too. C-a-t-a-s-t-r-o- phe. Learned the same place you did, in the schoolroom. That's one of the first words they taught me. Ruby Thewes, you are a ca-t-a-s-t-r-o-p-h- e...
ruby		You mucking out?
ruby		Three years I was in school before my daddy -- saying God rest his soul is like wishing him what he had in life, cause he lived to rest, he was born tired -- before my daddy decided there was better use for my backside than have it sat all day in front of a blackboard.
ruby		Number One -- layout a winter garden for cool season crops: turnips, onions, cabbage, greens.
ruby		Number Two: patch the shingles on the barn roof. Do we have a maul and froe?
ada		 Maul?
ruby		M-a-u-l.
ada		I have no idea.
ruby		Number three: clay crocks for preserves. Tomatoes. Beans. Jams.
ruby		Clear and turn this field. No harm done letting it go fallow, now we'll do well.
ruby		Number fifteen
ada		Sixteen.
ruby		Number sixteen: let's get a martin colony going in the Gourd House. Keep away crows. You got one thing in abundance on this farm and that's crows.
ada		What's a Gourd House?
ruby		There's survival. On them trees.  You got a cider press or would that be wishing on a blessing?
ada		Actually, yes, I think we do.
inman		Don't let go. Just back up, nice and steady, do this all in reverse, you're going to end up with her draped back over your animal.
veasey		Don't pull that trigger. I am a man of God.
inman		I've killed several of them.
veasey		I mean I am God's minister.
inman		What part of God's business is throwing a woman down a gorge.
veasey		A slave woman, can you see that in this light? She's black as a bucket of tar.
inman		Is she dead?
veasey		Drugged her. Like you would a butterfly. And I care for her, that's the heartbreak of it.
veasey		She's got my bastard in her belly. What kind of pistol is that I never saw the like of it?
veasey		I'm begging you. It's better you blowout my brains than return me to this place.
inman		Where does she live?
veasey		In our house. She sleeps in our kitchen. You don't know me, friend, but the good Lord punished me with want. I am all appetite. That's all I do all day is want: food, the female parts...
inman		Shut your mouth. I don't want a sermon every time I ask a question.
inman		This your place?
veasey		Dear God of misery.
inman		You're going to put her back where she sleeps.
veasey		I do that the Members will lynch me. Consorting with a nigger, adultery, siring a bastard while serving as their preacher. We're a strict congregation we've churched men for picking up a fiddle on the sabbath.
inman		So you reckoned to kill her.
veasey		There's a back door. Have pity.
veasey		 Thank you. I was going to do a grievous wrong.
vesey		You tasted dark meat? Sweet as liquorice. I think I should go back up to my wife. She wakes at the slightest noise.
inman		You find me some paper and a pen.
veasey		You're not entitled to judge me! You're nothing but an outlier, plain as daylight!
ruby		Morning. Pigs: you have any loose in the woods?
ada		No. What? No. We bought our hams.
ruby		There's a world more to a hog than the two hams! Lard, for example, we'll need plenty --
ruby		The catastrophe of Ada Monroe's laundry.  I can feel you shutting your eyes.
ruby		What's this wood?
ada		I don't know. Locust?
ruby		Where's North?
ada		North is, North is --
ruby		Name me three herbs growing wild on this farm.
ada		 I can't! I can't! All right? I can talk about farming in Latin. Will that do? I can read French. I know Harmony and Counterpoint. I know my Bible. I can name the principal rivers of Europe, but don't ask me to name one stream in this county. I can embroider, but I can't darn, I can arrange cut flowers, but I can't grow them. If a thing has a function, if I might do something with it, it wasn't considered suitable.
ruby		Why?
ada		Ruby, you could ask why? about pretty much everything to do with me.
ada		This fence is about the first thing I've ever done that'll produce an actual result.
ruby		So you never wrapped your legs around this Inman?
ferrygirl		For five dollars I wouldn't give a parched man a dipper of this riverwater.
inman		Sign says ferry, five dollars.
ferrygirl		This look like a ferry? My Daddy's dead, or gone off to the Federals, don't matter which. I'm the way across now.
inman		What's the name of this thing?
ferrygirl		Nothing but the mighty Cape Fear River, is all.
ferrygirl		Nobody crosses this water unless they're running from someplace. Some cross one way, some the other: makes no difference, they're all running. You want to wait for your friends?
inman		I can give you thirty dollars script.
ferrygirl		Let's go.
veasey		Keep going. We're both in trouble.
inman		No. Get out.
veasey		It's Homeguard. Made me tell them all about you.
inman		I should have shot you when I had the chance.
veasey		I'm not looking for revenge, by the way. For what you did to me. No, I'm a Pilgrim now, like you, traveling the road, paying our dues, relying on the kindness of strangers.
inman		You're nothing like me and the last thing I want right now is a conversation.
veasey		 I had good curls. But I deserved it. I'm the Reverend Veasey. Have I seen you in church?
ferrygirl		I'm saving for a cowhide, and when I get it I aim to get a saddle made, and when I get me a saddle I'll save for a horse, and when I got a horse I'll throw on the saddle, and then you won't see my sorry ass round this swamp again.
veasey		What's that?
ferrygirl		Catfish. 'gator. Keep your hand in the boat. Already looks like some critter chewed his neck.  Thirty more dollars, we can go to the cabin. I'll pull this dress over my head.
veasey		 Have we got thirty dollars?
veasey		You okay?
inman		Jesus, god!
veasey		I figure that righteous, given our history. Otherwise I'd bear a grudge on our journey.
inman		There's nowhere I'm going with you except to Hellfire!
ada		Agricola poetis viam non monstrat.
ruby		Which means?
ada		The farmer does not point out the road to a poet.
ruby		Which means? Should be the other way round
ada		Which means, I suppose, which means the poet should know where he's going.
ruby		 Say some more.
ada		Terra mutata non mutat mores.  It's appalling what's in my head.
ruby		It's appalling what's in my head?
ada		No, it means: A change of place does not change a character.
ruby		Well that's surely true even in English.
ada		You can keep those earrings.
ruby		We can't keep anything.
ada		I have to keep the bangles. They were my mother's.
ruby		Well that's all. The rest is for trading. Else they can bury you in your finery.
ada		 You're done.
ruby		Good God! Okay.
ada		I like it.
ruby		Takes two minutes. That's what I like.
ruby		How much do you love that piano?
ruby		We're careful we'll get through the winter now. I made old man Roy give me ten of those sheep on account of I said they were so small put together they were no bigger than six proper sheep.
ada		My father always wanted sheep on this land.
ruby		I'm sorry you had to lose your piano. I cut off my hair once, for money. My daddy got two dollars for it. Made a wig for a rich feller in Raleigh.
ruby		Stobrod called himself a musician -- my daddy -- he could play six tune on a fiddle. Got himself shot dead at Petersburg. I was like his goat or some creature tethered to a post. He left me once, up the mountains. I was eight. He was gone over two weeks.
ada		Oh Ruby.
ruby		 I was all right! He'd walk forty miles for liquor and not forty inches for kindness.
ada		And your mother?
ruby		Never met her. We're the same in that regard. He said she was -- he told me a thousand stories -- she was a wolf or an indian or a donkey. Don't say much for him, except you know he'd be fast to work up a sweat on a tree if he thought there was pleasure in it.
ruby		There's cows to milk.
veasey		Used to be as regular as morning prayers. Matter of fact I could set my watch by my bowels. That beeswax you fed me, day before yesterday, it stops a man up. Open my gut now they'd find turds stacked up like little black twigs.
veasey		Hey! Look at this!  This is a good saw.
inman		 It's not yours. You take it, you make us another enemy. You're a Christian -- don' t you know your commandments?
veasey		You'll find the good Lord very flexible on the subject of property. We could do a lot with this saw...
veasey		Why you in such a hurry the whole time?  Hurry or slow the destination is always the same. It's only the journey that is different. That's either in the Good Book or I made it up.
veasey		Good day to you!
junior		My old bull, wandered off and died in this here creek. Fouled up our water is how I found it.
veasey		This is a tricky one.
veasey		The name for the Bull's member is a tassel. I learned that and never forgot it.
junior		Reckon I need a train of mules.
veasey		 I'm getting an idea. My saw is the remedy. Let's saw up some wood and make levers.
inman		Then what?
veasey		Lever him out. This'll work!
junior		Where you two sports heading?
inman		 I don't know where he's heading. I'm going down the road. And I got a good way to go before nightfall.
junior		 Charitable of you to make a stop. Ain't for me to be curious.
veasey		 How do you work this damn thing?
inman		 Come on.
inman		Let's do this in chapters.
inman		You might want to leave off that water for a day or two.
junior		There'll be a tang, I'd imagine.
junior		There's my place. Hope you can stomach a yard chock-full of females. Brought my woman home, she showed up with her three so-called sisters and their brats. The noise in that place is something awful. It's why I go hunting.
veasey		 Looks a bit crooked.
junior		It is on a bit of a tilt. Them females. They all roll down one end each night!
veasey		-- Roll me over!
junior		-- In the clover
veasey		One good fart -- that'll tip over!
veasey		Oh God of my God! Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
junior		What's up?
veasey		The Israelites! The tribes of Israel are about to flee from the banks of Egypt! Hallelujah!
inman		 He's got a shit coming on. It's overdue.
junior		 And he's a Preacher? Like a Christian?
inman		Like a Christian.
junior		Good God.
junior		These two boys is stopping for supper. They're on the road to Atonement.
veasey		Atonement is not a place.
junior		So what is it when it's at home?
veasey		Those are fine examples of the female.
junior		Take them all and leave the saw. Be a sight more use.
shyla		 If they want to get in a tub there's an hour before food.
junior		They love to scrub a man.  It's my liquor, gets their titties swinging.
veasey		 I was right about sheep droppings those stools -- like rock hard. Quite astonishing.
shyla		That's battered flesh.  I could work a finger in there.
veasey		He's a hero. Took that wound at Petersburg.
inman		He doesn't know what I am.  Thanks.
shyla		 He's shy, ain't he?
veasey		Wait up a few minutes, I'll be in that tub, then we'll see who's a shy one.
shyla		I want to poke my thumb in his holes.
dolly		Lila says supper's up.
lila		Hey!
junior		He's gone now. Look! His eyes have gone.
inman		 What?
veasey		Dolly?
dolly		S'me.
veasey		Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae. That's a poem. That's a poem.
veasey		Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae  ...there's a poem there.
junior		I'm leaving soon as I'm full.
veasey		Really. Goodbye.
junior		Got a bunch of traps needs visiting. I'll be back tomorrow, before dark. You'll still be here?
veasey		That's my fervent prayer.
junior		My house is your house.
inman		 Like to wash their hands and pray.
veasey		Say again?
inman		Dolly, Lila, Shyla and Mae.
veasey		That's Job. Don't say much but even liquored up there's a preacher in him.
inman		I'll say my goodbyes, got miles and miles to go before sunset.  I'll just quickly lie down.
veasey		I'm heading for that smokehouse and I'm ready to be washed clean of my dirt.
junior		You go tend to him.  I'll be seeing you.
dolly		Come on you -- get!
lila		He's mine. You can go rub yourself off on the Preacher.  Gonna make him hug me till I grunt.
lila		Hey!
lila		 You want to see what Mamma's got for you?
lila		That's good. Ain't that sweet?
lila		You just get on and ride me all the way to China.
lila		You shy? You need a hand?  Let's have a look see what we can muster.
junior		You little bitch! Look at you! Cover yourself up!
veasey		I had a special prayer you'd come visit.
sally		Ada Monroe and Ruby Thewes! Look at you both!
ruby		Look at us both what?
sally		Like a coupla scarecrows after a thunderstorm.
ruby		We need a scarecrow, birds eating up half our winter garden.
ada		Sally's right. We should both stop toiling and stand a while with our arms stretch out. I'll volunteer.
ruby		We got something for you.
ada		For all your kindness. Coffee. And a pie.
ruby		That's real coffee. It ain't hickory and dirt.
sally		 Ruby, I look forward to this. We all do. Esco and me.
ruby		 She made it.
ada		I made it.
sally		Good God in Heaven.
ruby		 I'm still alive.
ruby		We'll be getting along.
sally		 I know Esco's going to be real sorry he missed you. You all take care.
ruby		That strike you as odd?
ada		What?
ruby		Stood at her front door?
ada		Sally?
ruby		Number one -- I know that woman all my life. I never stood outside her house -- she'd invite a wolf inside if it knocked on the door.
ada		Perhaps, I don't know, perhaps she was busy.
ruby		Number two -- Old Man Swanger was inside that house: I could smell his pipe burning. Number three -- look at these fields.
ada		What about them?
ruby		We came by here a week ago, they were waist high in hay.
inman		He's dead.
inman		This man's dead!
veasey		Am I so altered that they don't see me?
veasey		I christened that child.
sheffield		I'm looking to get out of this. They drag us back to fight -- we're just target practice for the Federal boys.
inman		You run, we're all running with you, the lame and the stupid, of which we number both.
sheffield		Either way we're fucked. Run or don't run.
inman		Just give me some warning so I can tell the guard -- I'm not getting shot again for some cause I don't believe in.
veasey		 Rebecca!
rebecca		Mas?
veasey		Is it well with you?  I've been repenting for what I did. I've walked the road of atonement.
rebecca		Your curls is all gone.
guard		Hey!
veasey		 God Bless you.
veasey		I'm with you. I got a baby coming.
inman		No!
brown		Get these sacks of shit under the ground.
ruby		Someone's been in the corncrib.
ada		You sure?
ruby		It's a coon or possum. Scratched out a fist hole in the side. This place! I'm telling you -- we grow, others eat. I'll go into town, take the last of the cider and trade for a trap.
teague		What you looking to catch?
ruby		What?
teague		With that trap.
ruby		We got some critter stealing our corn.
teague		Still but the two of you up there, is it?
ruby		You know it.
teague		When we get a cold night, camped out, trying to keep the rule of law, protecting girls like you from Federals and deserters, that's a thought warms us  Looks like human heads! Eh? Looks like a bunch of heads. We got competition!
sally		Ruby...
ruby		I'm not stopping, Sally. I'm not snooping neither. Just you should know Teague and his boys are lurking down by Pigeon River, the old mill.
sally		 You tell Ada that was a good pie.
maddy		Mind that Billy, he's the jealous kind.
maddy		Pay no attention to me. What happened to your head?
inman		Fighting.
maddy		And your neck?
inman		Different fighting.
maddy		You're the color of a cadaver. I'll fix you. I can fix you up.
inman		 Mister -- you could fix me I'd be in your everlasting debt.
maddy		Debts, fighting -- them words don't mean much round here. For the record, I'm a female of the species.
ruby		The hat's a nice touch.
ruby		You're quiet.
ada		I cried for my Daddy. I dressed up the scarecrow in his suit and he came back, his arms out, said you never cried enough, you never cried enough.
ruby		Well now you did.
ada		Then I thought, it's not my Daddy, it's my sweetheart. I saw him once that way, when I looked down Sally's well. So I dressed the scarecrow in the dress I wore the day he left. In case his spirit flies over looking out for me.  That looks terrible.
ada		Cabbages.
ruby		I bargained like Lucifer. We can make all kinds of good eating.
ada		Such as?
ruby		Cabbage. Slaw, sauerkraut, cabbage soup, fried cabbage, stuffed cabbage...
teague		Afternoon.
esco		Don't spread out. Why they spreading out?
teague		I'm not spreading out. I'm sitting here.
teague		Never knew a man worked in his field with a shotgun.
esco		There's a war on.
teague		Got to watch out for the Bogey Man.
esco		Get off my land.
teague		Your boys come back.
esco		Ain't seen my boys in four years. They're fighting other boys, not old men and women.
teague		 So you won't care if we take a look around?
esco		What I gotta give you? A chicken? A lamb?
teague		 Sure.
esco		Right then.
teague		Thing is -- you got one barrel and there's five of us. Not a fair fight.
bosie		Bogey Man! Bogey Man!
ruby		What's that?
teague		You're harbouring deserters. I can confiscate every animal on this farm, every plate, every sheet, every little pellet of chicken shit -- I can confiscate your old lady's asshole, so don't offer me a bird.
teague		 Hey!
teague		You got your bait. Set it on the hook.
ruby		I can't get this damn thing off her.
ada		 Dear Lord in heaven.
ruby		Ada, I can't get this off her!
ruby		What darling? What?
ruby		She's saying don't bother.
ada		Wait!
ada		There's someone down there. I think it's Esco.
ruby		This world won't stand long. God won't let it stand this way long.
inman		How long have I been sleeping?
maddy		Not long enough.
inman		I can't stop here. I'm a deserter. They find me here things could be bad for you.
maddy		What they going to do? Cut short my young life? Sit down before you fall down.
inman		How long you been up here?
maddy		What year are we? '63?
maddy		I'd say twenty six years.
inman		Twenty six years!
maddy		I could move on anytime. I've seen most of the world anyway, Richmond in the North, south almost to Charleston. You're going somewhere or you are somewhere, what's the difference?
maddy		I've learned a person can survive off pretty much of a goat. I can't abide a chicken, but a goat gives you company and milk and cheese and then, when you need it, good meat.
maddy		So you've been fighting?
inman		 I could be at killing for days sometimes, in the hand to hand, my feet against the feet of my enemy and I always killed him and he never killed me.
maddy		He gave it a try, to look at you.
inman		I guess he did.
maddy		See I think there's a plan. There's a design. For each and every one of us.
maddy		You look at nature, a bird flies somewhere, picks up a seed, shits the seed out, a plant grows. Bird's got a job, seed's got a job.
maddy		Take one of these now with your food.
maddy		Swallow it. If you die I'll give you your money back.
maddy		Our minds aren't made to hold on to the particulars of pain, the way we do bliss.
inman		It's true...
maddy		What is?
inman		What you remember.
maddy		What's her name?
inman		Ada.  Ada Monroe.
maddy		And is she waiting for you?
inman		She was. I don't know. Or if she'd know me. I'm like the boy who goes out in winter for firewood comes back in the spring with a whistle.
maddy		Now drink this. It visits the pain. And you'll sleep.
inman		I've had to put myself in the way of people's kindness.
maddy		I hope you found it.
inman		The passenger pigeons fly south, the berries ripen. Whether I see them or not, whether a man dies, or a war is won.
maddy		That's the laudanum getting to you. That's good. Say something more.  Raise that up for me.
inman		She gave me a book. Ada Monroe. Man by the name of Bartram. Wrote about his travels. I carried that book through every battle. I left it someplace, got to get it back. Sometimes just reading the name of a place near home -- Sorell Cove, Fire Scale Ridge -- was enough to bring me to tears. Thing is I've been thinking -- those places belonged to people before us, to the Indian -- and he had a different name. What did he call Sorell Cove? How can a name not even the real name break your heart? It's her, she's the place I'm heading. And I hardly know her. So how can a person who's maybe not even a real person -- I don't know what I'm talking about -- I have to close my eyes...
ruby		It's a man.
ada		What is?
ruby		Raiding our corn. Got him in the trap. That's him yelping.
ada		You're not going to shoot him!
ruby		I don't want him to shoot me.  Can you fire this thing?
ada		 Yes.
ruby		Listen up -- you got a barrel trained on your rear-end.
stobrod		Get me out of this dang thing. My fist's about to drop off.
ruby		You got a weapon?
stobrod		No ma'am. I'm begging you. I'm already on my knees, otherwise I'd get down on them.
ruby		 Unbelievable! Stobrod Thewes.
stobrod		Ruby? God damn!
ada		What?
ruby		 That's my daddy...
stobrod		Just so's you know -- I can eat while she's doing this -- in case you're holding off.
ruby		Just so's you know -- you're not eating inside. Number One -- they hang people round here for taking in deserters. Number two -- even if they gave out prizes -- you'd still eat outside.
stobrod		You're scarred.
ruby		I'm what?
stobrod		Your heart. Scarred. I did wrong to you.
ruby		You'd be scarred. You'd be really scarred if I hadn't wrapped them trap teeth in sacking. Which was her idea.
stobrod		I hurt you.
ruby		Good God!
stobrod		I wrote fifty tunes with you in mind. Ruby this, Ruby that, Ruby with the eyes that sparkle.
ruby		Hey! Let's agree: you beat me, you abandoned me, you ignored me, you beat me some more -- all of that is better than Ruby with the eyes that sparkle!
stobrod		I'm changed. People change. War changes people something terrible.  Ruby's told you -- I've no doubt -- I wasn't always the best...
ruby		You were an asshole.
stobrod		I can't disagree with that. I was.
ruby		Get him out of here!
stobrod		Music's changed me. I'm full of music, darling. I wish I'd brung my fiddle Hey Ruby! Got a new fiddle -- it's got a little snake's rattle in the body -- took it off a dead federal in Virginia. That's a beautiful fiddle. It's full of tunes, Ruby. Don't know if it's from that little rattle locked up in it, or from something untied my heart.
ruby		You're all set.
stobrod		 Bless you both.
ruby		Ain't you got a proper coat?
stobrod		Darling, I'm fine. And you just say the word, I won't come back neither. I don't want to put either you or your mistress here in any bother.
ada		I'm not Ruby's employer.
stobrod		Oh, okay, who is?
ruby		Nobody.  I'll make up food for you, you come Sundays before it's light, I'll leave it behind the Old Frazier Mill.
stobrod		Do you know who really needs a coat, darling, is my partner, fat boy name of Pangle. We're hiding up in the caves and he feels the cold like a thin man, but ain't no coat'll fit him.  I love you, Ruby. In case the sky falls on our head. You're a good girl.
ruby		He is so full of manure, that man, we could lay him on the dirt and grow another one just like him.
ada		So that's Stobrod Thewes.
ruby		It is and that's the last you'll see of him.
maddy		That's medicine and goatmeat. You're sick of both.
inman		I have a deal to thank you for.
maddy		And that's just for show, or -- if you can get close enough -- a wild turkey.
ruby		Get on back where you came from!
ada		-- a source of little visible delight, But necessary.
ruby		She ain't gonna marry Linton, is she? She said -- whatever our souls are made of his and mine are the same. You can't say that and then marry Linton.
ada		We'll find out.
ruby		Okay.
ada		Tomorrow.
ruby		I'm not waiting until tomorrow.
ada		Ruby, I'm falling asleep.
ruby		Little visible delight, but necessary. I like that...
inman		I'm one man alone. I'm a Confederate soldier on furlough. I have no bad intention. I need shelter and food.
inman		Can I at least sleep in the corn crib -- just for some shelter? I'll be on my way come morning.
inman		Fair enough.
sara		There's some beans and corn pone, all I got. You better come in.
inman		Thank you.
sara		I'm alone here, as you can see, with my baby. I need to believe you mean no harm.
inman		No, I mean to give it to you.
sara		I don't want it. I had my way they'd take metal altogether out of this world. Every blade, every gun.
inman		Is your baby sick?
sara		He cries. I don't know. He cries a lot. My man is dead. He took his wound at Fredericksburg. Never saw his boy.
inman		I'm sorry.
sara		It's pretty much what you'll get if you knock on any door of this war. Man dead, woman left.
sara		It's mean food but it's hot.
inman		 There's no hunting on the road, just cress and --
sara		I need to feed this man, if you could look away.
sara		Used to have a cow, few goats. Raiders took them. Made me kill our own dog on the porch. That poor creature watched over me. Nothing left now save a hog and couple of chickens to live off till spring. I'll have to kill that hog and make sense of the flesh and divisions which is something I never did.
inman		I could do that for you in the morning.
sara		I'm not asking.
inman		It's what I'd gladly do for you for what you're gladly doing for me. I'm Inman by the way. That's my name.
sara		I'm Sara. My baby's Ethan.
inman		Glad to know you both.
sara		You look about his size. He was another man straight up and down.
sara		I don't even have a blanket.
inman		I got a blanket.
sara		I'll leave you the lamp.
sara		They fit?
sara		I'll say good night.
sara		Will you come inside?
sara		Could you do something for me? Do you think you could lie here, next to me, and not need to go further?
inman		I don't know. I'll try.
inman		I'll go. I'll go, shall I?
sara		I don't want you to.
pangle		 She don't speak.
stobrod		She can't speak. I told you.
pangle		 Is she feeble then?
stobrod		No.  Hey Ruby: what about this?
stobrod		Don't make that face -- you listen: c'mon Georgia...
georgia		There's snow in the air.
ruby		Don't sleep here.
stobrod		We won't.
ada		It's bitter, they could stop one night.
ruby		They stop one night, they'll want to stop two.
pangle		This coat's warm.
stobrod		What about next Sunday? That'll be the New Year. It's gonna be a better one.
ruby		Maybe.
georgia		The war's over in a month.
ruby		He said that a month ago.
ada		 It started off being over in a month.
stobrod		Miss Ada. Merry Christmas.
ada		Merry Christmas. Pangle. Georgia.
georgia		'Night.
pangle		'Night now.
stobrod		That's my Ruby.
georgia		She's an original.
stobrod		You think the Good Lord would forgive an old cold fool if he changed his mind? Ada said it herself it was bitter...
ruby		What kind of name's Georgia?
ada		It's where he comes from, it's not his name.
ruby		I know that's meant to be the ugliest state under the heavens.
ada		Why do you care what his name is?
ruby		 What's that cluster of Stars?
ada		Orion.
ruby		What about them shaped like a wishbone?
ada		That's Taurus the bull, and that's Gemini and that's Orion's big dog, Canis Major.
ruby		Listen to her, Sal. She's turned into a highland girl.
ada		I could always name the stars, Ruby, that was never my problem.
ada		I love you darling. In case that big old sky falls on our heads. And I love you, too. Sal.
ruby		It's sad, Sal. It's a c-a-t-a-s-t-r- o-p-h-e.
sara		Get out of here, quick!
sara		Federals are coming. They find you here it'll go bad on all of us.
inman		I can try and fight them.
sara		No, my baby. Please no! Just get.
pistol		We got all day.
sara		My baby's sick! Cover him up! He's shaking! Have some pity.
sara		I got nothing. I swear.
nym		That ain't necessarily so.
sara		Yes! Take me inside! Let's all go inside! Take my baby inside and then we'll do whatever you want.
sara		 There's nothing! You take that hog I'm as good as dead. Cover up my boy!
bardolph		This is ready to get a fit going. It's shuddering. It's gone blue.
pistol		 How long does he want? Hey! Leave some for the rest of us.
inman		Move away from the baby.
bardolph		Don't shoot.
inman		Take off your boots.  Take off your pants, and your shirt.
bardolph		Don't shoot me, please. We're starving. We haven't eaten.
inman		You'd better get running before you catch your death of cold.
bardolph		 Thanks, thank you. I will.
sara		Good?
ada		Do you think he's dead?
ruby		Who?
ada		 This snow. Isn't it supposed to fall with bad news?
ruby		Bad news is girls get working. I'm going to round up the animals.  This'll settle.
georgia		What d'you reckon? Think we could eat this?
stobrod		You cook something long enough you can eat anything.
pangle		 It's frozen. How long it been there for?
stobrod		You hungry?
pangle		Yeah.
stobrod		Not very long.
stobrod		Edible.
pangle		Ow!
georgia		 Don't taste much like venison.
pangle		It's good. I think it's good.
teague		Evening. Hope we didn't disturb you.
stobrod		You're all right.
teague		Name's Teague. Do I know you?
stobrod		Thewes.
teague		You a deserter? -- don't mind if I just warm up at your fire.  That your wife?
stobrod		Who? That's a he!
teague		He your wife?
stobrod		We're musicians. He picks the banjo, I got a fiddle.
teague		 Tell him, I'm just kidding.
bosie		He's just kidding.
teague		Did you answer my question -- about your military status?
stobrod		Discharged. Took a wound at Petersburg.
teague		Oh, so like a hero's discharge.
stobrod		I guess.
teague		And your boyfriend?
stobrod		The military wouldn't take him. He can't fight. He's simple. He's got a mind no bigger'n a pickled walnut.
teague		I'm sorry -- he's fat, he's simple and got titties -- but you're insisting he ain't a woman. God damn! Don't that sausage smell outstanding.
stobrod		 Miqhty outstanding.
teague		Mighty outstanding! There's a new phrase. Mighty outstanding. Listen, don't tell me -- you left your papers somewhere.
stobrod		Which papers?
teague		Your hero's discharge. For mighty outstanding valour.
stobrod		They're, they're, they're at my house.
teague		 And where, where, where is your house?
stobrod		Down the mountain.
teague		But you're up the mountain.
stobrod		Hunting. Drinking.
teague		On honeymoon.  I'm pretty fucking funny tonight.
bosie		Is he going to play?  You gonna play that fiddle?
stobrod		Sure. Sure.  Hey, wake up!
teague		Evening, Mrs.
pangle		 Where's Georgia?
teague		 Where's Georgia?
stobrod		He don't know what he's saying. We were talking about Georgia early on -- maybe heading down there.
teague		Georgia's like my armpit. Worse, it's like yours.  Want some sausage?
pangle		Thanks. You is Home Guard?
teague		Yes, ma'am.
pangle		You is Teague?
teague		 I'm known!
stobrod		He don't know what he's saying.
pangle		 That bastard Teague.
teague		Really.
pangle		Bad words. Folk always put the curse words in front of your name.
stobrod		Mr. Teague wants us to play.
pangle		Okay.
teague		We heard there were deserters in these parts. Hiding out in a big cave.
stobrod		Not come to my ears.
teague		You don't know where this cave is?
stobrod		No, sir.
pangle		You do, Stobes! He means --
stobrod		Right, right! he means, there is a cave, right, it's up over the other side, big cave, we played some music up there, never occurred to me they were deserters. Near Bearpen Branch.
pangle		Ain't nowhere near Bearpen Branch! It's this side! He's always getting lost. That cave -- we live there! -- it's over on Big Stomp. Tell you how I always find it. There's a big old locust tree fell down across the path, that points straight at it, like a finger, always a dozen squirrels round that tree. You gets to the tree, sit on it, and there's your entrance, straight in front of you, tree points at it. Come right to your hand, them squirrels --  -- Chrrrpppp! Chrrrrppp!
teague		Sounds good. Okay, let's eat, let's hear some music.
stobrod		I call this tune: Ruby's Lament.
pangle		What'd you make of that?
bosie		Heartbreaking.
teague		Stand over by that tree.
stobrod		Me?
teague		Over by that tree. Over there. Take your boyfriend.
stobrod		Come on.
teague		Don't smile.
pangle		What?
teague		Quit smiling.
stobrod		He always smiles. He don't mean nothing by it. I told him this world's got nothing worth a smile.
teague		Put your hat over your face.
pangle		What do you mean?
teague		Cover your face with your hat.
ada		I told Georgia he can stop here, sleep in the barn. He's got nothing inside him. He'd walk out of here and die in the snow.
ruby		He can milk the cows. I was worrying about that. It'll be dark in a couple of hours. I's ten hours climb from here. He's drawn a map.
ada		Okay.
ruby		 You know these fools stayed the night in the Mill? That's Stobrod -- he can't do one good thing without adding the bad. Left tracks in the snow all the way up for them Home Guards to follow. That's a sign says shoot me!
ada		Ruby, I'm so sorry.
ruby		We should get going.
ruby		Every piece of this is a man's bullshit. They call this a war a cloud over the land, but they made the weather. Then they stand in the rain and say: shit! It's raining!  If I cry one tear for my Daddy I stole it off a crocodile.
ada		I don't understand.
ruby		Maybe Teague's took him. They did that with the Swanger boys -- didn't, they? -- dragged them into town, then strung them up as warning... it's snowed since, so I can't read the story on the ground.
ruby		Let's dig.
ada		Ruby! Ruby!
ruby		He's still breathing!  He's still breathing!
ruby		Pack a pan full of snow. I need good clean water, boiled up.
ada		Let's get him home. We have herbs there and it's warm.
ruby		He'll die first. He's got hardly no blood left in him.
ada		He'll die lying here.
ruby		There's a place further on up. Used to be. Old Cherokee place. There's good water right by it.
ada		This horse is weary. He's ready to give up the ghost.
ada		Good boy.  That's warmer, isn't it.
ada		I'm getting firewood.
ada		That wood -- that sound when it burns that mean more snow?
ruby		Yes, it do, country girl.
ada		Turn round and go back where you came from.
inman		Ada? Ada Monroe?
ada		I do not know you.
inman		Then I believe I made a mistake.
inman		If I knew where to go I'd go there.
ada		 Inman?
ada		You'd better come with me.
ada		Ruby, this is Inman.
ruby		Congratulations, I should send you out with a shotgun more often. He looks as he needs sleep.
inman		I may need to.
ruby		Be my guest. You shot or something?
inman		Not lately.
ruby		Hungry?  He woke up.
ada		Stobrod?
ruby		Said -- your mommy's name was Grace then closed his eyes again.
ada		He's asleep. They both are.
ruby		I'm not surprised. Your man looks played out.
ada		I saw him. I realize now.
ruby		Saw him when?
ada		In Sally Swanger's well. A tunnel of trees. The man like a black smudge in the snow, the sun behind him.
ruby		Well there you are.
ada		Funny thing is it wasn't the same. The image. It wasn't snowing. And in the well, he was, as if he were falling.
ruby		You probably don't remember it right.
ada		I remember it exactly. There were crows, these black crows flying towards me. I thought I was seeing him fall. Instead I was seeing him come back to me. All this while I've been packing ice around my heart. How will I make it melt?
ruby		Better get a fire going.  I've got big plans for that farm. Got a vision in my mind of how that Cove needs to be.
ada		I know you have.
ruby		There's not a thing we can't do ourselves.
inman		I'm sorry. I was trying to be quiet.
ada		I couldn't sleep.
inman		-- I got no appetite left to be in a room with wounded men.
ada		I can't see your face.
inman		It's not a face you recognised.
ada		Did you get my letters?
inman		I got three letters. Carried them in that book you gave me. The Bertram.
ada		I must have sent 100. Did you write to me?
inman		Whenever I could. If you never got them I can summarize.
ada		No, it's --
inman		I pray you're well. I pray I'm in your thoughts. You are all that keeps me from sliding into some dark place.
ada		But how did I keep you? We barely knew each other. A few moments.
inman		A thousand moments. They're like a bag of tiny diamonds glittering in a black heart. Don't matter if they're real or things I made up. The shape of your neck. The way you felt under my hands when I pulled you to me.
ada		Your boots, one polished, one not yet polished.
inman		You're playing a piano and I'm standing outside.
ada		I'm playing a piano and you're standing outside.
inman		That kiss -- which I've kissed again every day of my walking.
ada		Every day of my waiting.
inman		Maybe you can't see my face, but if you could see my inside, my whatever you want to name it, my spirit, that's the fear I have deeper than any gash on my neck. I think I'm ruined. They kept trying to put me in the ground, but I wasn't ready, no ma'am, no more ready than that scoundrel in there's not ready to die on us. But if I had goodness, I lost it. If I had anything tender in me I shot it dead.
ruby		Number one -- shut this door, it's freezing.  I'm laying on my back, with my fingers poked in my ears trying to shut out who's got a bag of diamonds and who's got boots needs polishing, If you want to get three feet up a bull's ass listen to what sweethearts whisper to each other.
ruby		In fact, if you're going to wimble all night I'm going to sleep in with him.
ada		Now I can't see anything.
inman		I'll say goodnight.
ada		I don't think Ruby's vacating my hut so that you can sleep in a different one.
ada		Come in.
ada		Whatever comes to pass between you and me, I want Ruby to stay in Black Cove.
inman		Right.
ada		As long as she wants. And if she never leaves I'll be glad.
inman		More a question could she put up with me.
ada		And you understand she's my friend, she's not a hired hand and she doesn't empty a night jar unless it's her own.
inman		Sure.
ada		This war's made some things pointless. It's hard to imagine a wedding. I think even my father would recognize that.
inman		Ada, I want to marry you. If you'll have me.
ada		Isn't there's some religion where you just have to say I marry you, three times, and then you're man and wife.
inman		I marry you. I marry you. I marry you.
inman		Why's that funny?
ada		No, I think it's I divorce you three times and then you're not married anymore.
inman		I can wait for you.
ada		You waited enough. I certainly did. I marry you. I marry you. I marry you.
ada		I'm sorry about the way I look. In these clothes.  Will you turn your back?
inman		Not for all the gold dollars in the Federal Bank.
inman		You go ahead. I'll follow with the horse at a pace your daddy can tolerate.
ada		We can all go together.
inman		It's safer this way. No one has quarrel with you.
ruby		He's right.
inman		 I gather I need permission if I reckon on living at Black Cove.
inman		We'll get to you by nightfall.
ada		You be safe.
inman		Your Mr. Bartram speaks about some category of fly born on the hide of a cow. It flies up into a tree and waits and waits until it smells cow. It can wait a year, two years, I don't know, maybe longer. Then a cow comes along and it wakes up, flies down, lays its eggs on the cow. There's purpose for you.
ada		And am I the fly in this story, or the cow?
stobrod		You come up the mountain for me, darling, I'd be dead otherwise, dead and gone.
ruby		You'd have found some other fool to rescue you.
stobrod		He's sweet on you, that Georgia boy.
ruby		If you say a thing and then cough it's a lie. Daddy, stay on that horse, and don't lose him or sell him. We'll need him on the farm.
ruby		I hope that Georgia boy's been seeing to the animals.
ada		I thought you were thinking on him!
ruby		I was not. I was thinking on swollen udders -- and before you say same difference...
ada		I'm saying nothing.
ruby		Miss lovey-dovey!
inman		 Don't look round.
stobrod		Got it.
inman		How many men does he have?
stobrod		There were five. You can't reason with that man.
inman		 Closer we get to that broken ground the better.
inman		You hold on tight, do you hear? When I say three, look round, nice and slow.
stobrod		Okay.
inman		One, two, three.
teague		God damn! You're a hard fucker to put down.  Good directions to that cave from the fat boy -- saw the squirrels, sat on the tree made some friends, brought some back with me.
inman		Come out of there.
bosie		No, sir. Here's fine.
inman		I just have to shoot the horse from under you.
bosie		Shoot her. She's not mine. You riding Mr Teague's mare?
inman		I am.
bosie		He dead?
inman		I hope so.  Look, how old are you? Give me your gun and ride home, I'm done fighting. I'm sick of it.
bosie		I give you my gun you'll shoot me dead.
inman		I will not shoot you, but nor am I walking down that mountain looking over my shoulder for you.
bosie		That's what they call a conundrum. I tell you what I've got on my side.
inman		What have you got on your side?
bosie		The confidence of youth.
ada		You bring that lamb outside.
grace		What are you doing!
ada		He came out dead, love.
grace		Don't kill him!
ada		I'm not going to kill him. But we have to try something or else he's going to die.
ada		Isn't that a small mercy.
ada		 Hot hot hot hot hot!!!
ada		Grace Inman, nobody said eat.  Mr. Thewes...
ada		For good friends, good food, good family: for all our blessings -- Oh Lord we thank thee. Amen.
all		Amen !
****Dialogues from script :Collateral.txt****

written by		Stuart Beattie  revised draft by Frank Darabont 9/12/00  current revisions by Michael Mann 8/24/03
vincent		You okay?    Sorry...
man		 Yeah, yeah, I'm fine, mate.   Enjoy                      * LA...
man		...it's always you. Why is everything always directed at you...?
woman		...everything is not "always about me." He was being sarcastic and you goddamn well know it...
man		...I'm sorry, I didn't hear it that way...
woman		...oh, bullshit! How about the dig about the makeover...?
man		...what do you want me to do, punch the guy out? I work with him. And you're perfectly capable of taking care of your own......
woman		 ...well, last I checked, you were sleeping with me, so unless you wanna start fucking him, I suggest...
max		Hey, leave-up on him, man...
gang member		Say what? What you lookin' at, bitch? 
annie		...no, the transcriptions need to be                    * done by seven a.m.. Period. Okay?                       *
max		How ya' doin'?   Where to?
annie		Downtown. 312 North Spring Street. Take Sepulveda to Slauson to La Brea. La Brea north to 6th into downtown.
max		I'll take 105 east and up the 110. It's faster.
annie		 What?
max		 105 to the 110 is faster.
annie		110 turns into a parking lot around USC.
max		This late, the 110 is moving, but La                      * Brea north of the Santa Monica is                         * jammed.                                                   *
annie		110 north of the 10 you get people                        * going to Pasadena and they drive slow.                    *
max		That's why I jump off at Grand.                           *  But, hey, surface streets is cool. That's what you want, that's what we do...                                                     *
annie		Are we taking bets?   What if you're wrong?
max		Your ride is free.
annie		You got yourself a deal.
annie		Go ahead, say it.    Go ahead.
max		...lucky with the lights.
annie		You weren't "lucky with the lights." What you were was right. I was                           * wrong...  ...Max.
max		You like Bach?
annie		 I used to play this piece in high school.
max		Let me guess.    Woodwinds?
annie		 Viola. I never had the lungs for wind instruments.
max		Could'a fooled me, the way you were unloading into that cell phone.
annie		 You know, if you'd only listened to me, we'd be all bogged down in traffic right now, and you would have made an extra five bucks.
max		Yeah? Keep it. Buy yourself something. Go wild.
annie		 A gentleman. I thought chivalry was a necessary casualty of gender politics...
max		Not a big thing, you know...?
annie		How many cabbies get you into an argument to save you money?
max		There were two of us. I killed the other guy. I don't like competition...
annie		You take pride in...being the best at                   * what you do...?
max		This?  This is temporary. You know. Pays the bills. I fill in with this. I WILL be the best at what I do, but                      * that's something else.
annie		What else?
max		I'm setting up something...                             *
annie		Like tell me...?
max		...limo company I'm putting together. Island Limousines. An island on wheels. So I'm part-timing until I get delivery, Benzes off leases, work up my client lists, staff up, all                       * that...
annie		You psychic?
max		I'm starting an 800 hotline.  Caught your phone call. And even if I hadn't, there's the dark pinstripe.                     * Elegant, not too hip, which rules out                   * advertising, plus a top drawer briefcase, that you live out of, purse                  * looks like a Bodega...
annie		 Bottega.
max		...Bottega. Guy gets in my cab with a machete? I figure he's a sushi chef. You? Clarence Darrow.
annie		Not quite. He worked defense.     I'm a prosecutor...
max		Big case?
annie		Yeah.
annie		You got us here fast...
max		You never answered my question.   You like what you do?
annie		 Yeah.
max		But not right now...?
annie		 At the same time...I always get this clenched-up thing the night before the                 * first day...
max		Clenched-up how...?                                    *
annie		 In the morning, it starts. I'm fine.                   *
max		You need a vacation.                                   *
annie		 I just had...a vacation.   On the Harbor Freeway.
max		No. Not in a cab. You need your head straight, gotta get your unified self up, get harmonic...you know...
annie		When was the last time you took a break?
max		I take little ones all the time.
annie		How often?
max		Dozen times a day.
annie		No, I couldn't take that...I couldn't.
max		Yes, you could. You need it more than I do.  It helps. I promise.
annie		Wow.   Thanks for everything, Max...
max		Sure thing.
annie		In case you ever...I don't know...wanna start an investigation of a Fortune 500 company or argue cab routes or something...
annie farrell		ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY CRIMINAL DIVISION CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
vincent		Hello?
max		 Uh, yeah...
vincent		Let's go to...  You free? Or...                                            *
max		Yeah, yeah, sorry...
vincent		452 South Union Street.
vincent		 How long you think this'll take?
max		Fourteen minutes.
vincent		Fourteen?    Not fifteen?   Not thirteen?
max		Two minutes to get onto the 101. Transition to the 110 to the 10 and exit on Normandie is four minutes. North on Normandie is five minutes. Two minutes to South Union 'cause there's roadwork. Thirteen plus one for "shit happens."
vincent		Mind if I time you?  What do I get if you're wrong?     A free ride?
max		An apology.
vincent		To who?                                                   *
max		...some girl.                                             *
vincent		Did you ask her out?
max		First time in LA?
vincent		No. To tell the truth, whenever I'm here, I can't wait to leave. Too sprawled-out. Disconnected. You know...? But that's me.  You like it here?
max		It's home.
vincent		17 million people. This was a country, it would be the fifth biggest economy in the world. But nobody knows each other. Too impersonal.                      * But that's just me...you know...                       *  I read about this guy. Gets on the                     * MTA, here, and dies. Six hours he's riding the subway before anybody notices. This corpse doing laps around LA, people on and off, sitting next to him, nobody notices.
max		I see your point.   Yeah...
vincent		Cleanest cab I've ever been in.   Your regular ride?
max		Yeah.   I share it with the dayshift guy.
vincent		Prefer nights?
max		People are more relaxed, you know? Less stress, less traffic, better tips.
vincent		You get benefits?
max		Like sick leave?                                          *
vincent		Retirement? Health and welfare?                           *
max		It's not that kind of job.
vincent		Start a union.
max		Me, specifically?
vincent		Why not?
max		Last thing I need is a reason to keep driving a cab. It's temporary. I'm fillin' in, you know, while this other thing I'm putting together is shaping up...
vincent		How long you been driving?
max		Twelve years.
vincent		Really? What else are you putting together?
max		I don't talk about it.     No offense, but...
vincent		 None taken. Talkers and doers.      Like you, I like doers.
vincent		Fourteen minutes.    Man, you're good...
max		Lucky with the lights.
vincent		Yeah, sure. You probably know the light schedules, too.  Listen...I'm in town on a real estate deal. A closing. One night. I got five stops to make, collect signatures. See some friends. Then I got a six a.m. out of LAX. Why don't you hang with me for the night...?
max		I'm not a hire car.    It's against regs...
vincent		Regulations? These guys don't pay you sick leave.  How much you pull down a shift?
max		Two-fifty, four hundred.                                 *
vincent		I'll make it six hundred. Plus an extra hundred if you get me to LAX and I don't have to run for the plane.
max		Man, I don't know.
vincent		Yes, you do.
max		 Yeah. Okay.
vincent		Cool. We got a deal. Here's three hundred down. What's your name?
max		Max.
vincent		Max?     I'm Vincent.
max		I can't double park here...
vincent		I'll meet you in the alley behind the building.
max		Definitely not from around here.
max		He - He fell on my cab...! 
vincent		 You always stutter?
max		Well, yeah. Yeah. Guy fell on my motherfucking cab from up there...!
vincent		...taken two .45s and did a high dive onto his head. It's a good guess.
max		You - you killed him?
vincent		No. I - I shot him.     The bullets and the fall killed him.
max		You are cool.
vincent		No.  You say you are cool.
max		I am...I'm cool.
vincent		Okay.   Help me out here.                                 *
max		With what?
vincent		El Gordo decided to get some air and not take the stairs. So we go to plan B. Pop the trunk.                                         *
max		My trunk?
vincent		 ...and his sphincters let go...
max		I don't think I can do this.
vincent		He's only a dead guy.    On three.    Uno.                 * Dos. Three.
max		Yeah.
vincent		What?
max		His hand moved!    His goddamn hand twitched!
vincent		It's a spasm! Jesus, don't be such a girl...
vincent		Six liters of blood in the average Angeleno, he's gotta dump all his...on your cab.  Okay, that's good enough.
max		Uh, look...why don't you, like, take the cab...
vincent		"Take the cab..."
max		Yeah. I - I'll chill. You know. And...they don't check. You know? They don't. They don't know who's driving these things. You, me...
vincent		And you promise you will never tell anybody? Right? ...get in the fucking car.
vincent		Can we leave the scene of the crime,                      * now, please?
max		I'm trying...
vincent		Max.
max		It's not me!
vincent		The engine is already on. Put the little pointer on the letter "D." "D" stands for Drive.
max		You're making me nervous.
vincent		I'm making you nervous?   I'm the one on a schedule...
fanning		Fuck.
max		What?
vincent		Adrenaline's wearing off. You get shaky after. Some people slip into shock. It's not uncommon. Deep breathing helps.
max		I think so.
vincent		What are you doing?
max		It's a mess.
vincent		So?
driver		Asshole!
vincent		You no longer have the cleanest cab in La-La Land. You gotta live with that.                     * Focus on the job. Drive.
max		West Hollywood.
vincent		 How long, you figure?
max		Seventeen minutes.     Why?
vincent		I told you we had other stops to make tonight.
max		You said you were visiting friends!
vincent		They're somebody's friends...                                     * You drive a cab. I make my rounds. We both do our jobs, you might make it through the night and come out seven hundred bucks ahead.
max		I...I'm not trying to piss you off, see? Okay? But I can't drive you around so you can murder people... Man, that's not my job...
vincent		Tonight it is.
max		You don't get it. I mean it.     Really. I'm not up for this...
vincent		You are stressed. I understand that.                     * Keep breathing. Stay calm.
max		Yes.
vincent		Good. What else calms you down? Candy? Cigarettes? Breathe.
max		Music.
vincent		Play music.
max		I Ching?   You threw a man out a window!
vincent		I didn't throw him, he fell.
max		What'd he do to you?
vincent		Nothing.   I only met him one time.
max		Then how can you kill him like that?
vincent		I should only kill people after I get to know 'em?  Six billion people on the planet and you get bent out of shape 'cause of one fat guy?
max		Who, who was he?
vincent		What do you care?    Ever hear of Rwanda?
max		Rwanda.    Yeah.                                         *
vincent		Tens of thousands killed before sundown. Nobody's killed people that fast since Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Did you bat an eye, Max? Did you join Amnesty International, Oxfam or something? No. 
max		I don't know Rwandans.
vincent		You don't know the guy in the trunk, either.  If it makes you feel any better, he was a criminal involved in a Continuing Criminal Enterprise.
max		Oh, that makes it okay, then. 'Cause                     * all you're doing is taking out the                       * garbage...
vincent		Something like that...  What you need to remember is that nobody gets out of this alive. Even if we quit smoking. Cut out red meat. Everybody dies...
vincent		 Get rid of 'em.
max		How?
vincent		You're a cabby. Talk yourself out of a ticket.
max		Please.   Don't do anything.
vincent		Then don't let me get cornered.     You don't have the trunk space.
max		I can't believe this...
vincent		Believe it.
max		Don't. I'll talk to them, I'll talk to them...!
vincent		 Probably married.
max		I'll deal with it!
max		Yes, officer.
max		Yeah. See...  I hit a deer.
max		Over by Slauson.
max		Goddamn deer jumped out in front of me. You believe that?
max		I was headed back to my depot, see, you know? And his drop's on the way.
vincent		Is that necessary, Officer?   I'm just a half mile from here.
vincent		You open that trunk, they go inside.
max		Hey, man, it's been a long day. You know? It's so slow, I pay this guy to ride so I don't get lonely...  My first fare. How about a break? I'm heading to the barn, anyway...
police radio		Officer needs help. We got a man with a gun. Shots fired at 83rd and Hoover...
vincent		Breathe.
vincent		 I thought Californians exercised...?
max		Why?
vincent		Because I say so.                                       *
vincent		Who...is that?
max		Lenny, my dispatcher.
vincent		What happens if you don't?
max		He'll keep calling.
vincent		Don't blow it.
max		Uh, yeah?    Lenny?   It's me.
max		Yeah?   So?
max		It got crashed!    I didn't...
vincent		It was an accident. You're not liable.                                       *
max		It was an accident.    I'm not liable.
vincent		Tell him to stick the cab up his fat ass.
max		I can't do that.     He's the Man.
vincent		So what?
max		I need the job.
vincent		No you don't.
vincent		He's not paying you a damn thing!                       *
vincent		Richard Riccardo, Assistant U.S.                         * Attorney. A passenger in this taxicab, and I'm reporting you to the DMV...
vincent		Not excited? How am I supposed to not get excited, listening to you try to extort a working man? You know                           * goddamn well your collision policy and                   * general liability umbrella would cover the damages. What are you trying to pull, you sarcastic prick?
vincent		Tell it to him.  Tell him he's an asshole.
max		 You're an asshole.
vincent		Tell him next time he pulls any shit, you're gonna stick this yellow cab up his fat ass.
max		Next time you pull any shit, I'm gonna stick this yellow cab up your fat ass.
vincent		 Don't wait up, hon.   I gotta work late.
max		HEY!   HEY! OVER HERE!    I'M IN THE CAB!   HEY! HELP!
max		 I got my, my hands taped to the steering wheel, here, by this guy, who's taped me in the car, 'cause he's up in the building somewhere...
max		...yeah, he's coming back. Hurry. Get me loose so I can call the cops...
max		Are you kidding me?
max		 My hands are taped to the damn steering wheel!
vincent		 Where's the button?    Under the dash?
max		 Yeah.
vincent		You mind turning it off?
vincent		Another collateral.
max		What's that?
vincent		Collateral damage. People in the wrong place at the wrong time.  And you? You attract attention? You are gonna get people killed who didn't need to be. Understand?
max		I'm low on gas...
vincent		Pull in there.
max		Vincent?
vincent		Yes, Max?
max		Am I collateral?
vincent		I haven't decided.
max		Huh...?                                                   *
vincent		We got time to kill.  You like jazz?
max		I'm...what? Sorry?
vincent		Jazz.
max		Not that much.
vincent		Guy told me about a place off Crenshaw. Leimert Park. All the West Coast greats played there. Dexter Gordon, Thelonious Monk, Chet Baker. Like that...  Buy you a drink. Expand your                             * horizons...
weidner		...this informant of yours, what's his name, Ramone?
fanning		Ramone Gallardo. Supposed to take him for a drink. I come here, find this.
weidner		You been working him?                                    *
fanning		Four months...a low-level player, he's                   * been feeding me stuff on Felix.
fanning		Since when is the LAPD working for the                  * Feeb?                                                   *  Besides, Ramone flew out a window. My                   * C.I. flew out a window, he's got Felix's handprints on his ass. Yes? That makes it ours.
weidner		 Where's the homicide, Ray? Where's a                    * body? All we got is glass...
fanning		Ramone flew out the window. Went                        * splat. Here's the glass.                                *  Then some tires rolled over it.                         *
weidner		How's that spell homicide?   Maybe he jumped.
fanning		Sure. He's depressed. So he jumps four stories out a window onto his head. 
weidner		                                          * So, who's got what? Any witnesses? We been knocking on doors?
weidner		Description. What did he see?
fanning		Did he "see" it or did his seeing eye dog see it?
weidner		Four thousand taxis in LA County.  What else...?
fanning		Remember fall, 2001? That Bay Area                     * deal? Oakland. Cabbie drove around                     * all night. Killed three people...
weidner		Then he flipped out, put the gun to his head. So what?                                     *
fanning		So the Oakland PD detective,                           * whatshisname, never bought it.
weidner		Why?
fanning		The Cabbie had no criminal record. No history of mental illness. Pops three people, then himself? And the victims weren't random. Two were involved in some pharmaceuticals scam...  Anyway, the detective always thought there was somebody else in that cab.
vincent		...a little '60's, early Miles thing                   * happening...                                           *
vincent		You don't learn to listen...anymore                    * than you learn to breathe. Open your                   * ears.                                                  *
vincent		...he's off the melody, behind the                     * notes. Outside what's expected.                        * Improvising off impulse. Kind of like                  * tonight.                                               *
waitress		'Nother Vodka tonic, hon?
vincent		And one for my friend.  Who's on the tenor sax?                                    *
waitress		That's Daniel, baby, he's the owner.
vincent		He is terrific. Would you be so kind                       * as to invite him over after his set?                       * I gotta buy him a drink.                                   *
waitress		Sure thing, darlin'...
daniel		...I was a young cat back then, about nineteen, bussin' tables. Right here. Didn't pay but shit, but that wasn't the point. Being around the music, that was the thing. And I was. Take this one night...July 22, 1964...who walks in. Mr. Louis Armstrong.
vincent		You're kidding me.
daniel		Right through those doors.     The man himself.
vincent		Jesus...
daniel		He was in town playing two gigs a night at the Coconut Grove in the Ambassador Hotel... After his last set, he decides to come on down to South Central to hang with his people. That's how he was, you see. Never forgot who we was. Money and fame an' all that? Meant nothin', long as he could blow that horn. 
vincent		Was it great? Better than great, it had to be...
daniel		Like Winton Marsalis says, it was pure, spiritual essence. Louis was playing. God was smiling.
vincent		You heard Armstrong play live. I've never been this jealous. You get to talk to him?
daniel		Did better'n that.
vincent		No.
daniel		Oh, my, yes.
vincent		C'mon...
daniel		Fella owned this place back then, cat                      * named Dix Dwyer, he let slip to Louis                      * that I played. So Pops, he just waves me right up. My heart about stopped. But I got up there all the same, and we played for nearly twenty minutes.
vincent		Unbelievable...  ...you hearing this?
max		How'd you do?
daniel		How do you think? You ain't shit when you playing next to Louis Armstrong. But, Dippermouth, he was kind. He could see me trying. He carried my ass as best he could.
vincent		Remember what you played?
daniel		Most vividly.  ...then Pops laid some "Cornet Chop Suey" on me, and left me in the dust like a whipped dog.
daniel		 I was born in 1945, but that was the moment of my conception. Right here in the used-to-be crowded room.                           *
vincent		Crowds not here now?
daniel		Oh, jazz ain't the draw it used to be.
vincent		But the place looks great.
daniel		Only 'cause I got the wherewithal to                      * finance keepin' it up on my own.                          *
vincent		What a great story. I'll tell the                         * folks in Culiacan and Bogota that story.
daniel		You know the people in Culiacan and Bogota?
vincent		 'Fraid so.
daniel		And here I thought you were such a cool guy.
vincent		I am a cool guy. With a job I was hired to do. You know how it is.
max		Let him go, Vincent.
vincent		I'm working here.
max		You're the one who keeps talking about going with the flow. You like the man, you like the way he plays. How about a little jazz, huh?
vincent		Improvisation? That's funny from you.                    *  Okay, some jazz for the jazz man. How's this? I'll ask a question?
daniel		What question?
vincent		Jazz question. You get it right, we roll. You disappear. Tonight. You don't go home, you don't pack a bag, you leave town...and nobody, I mean nobody, ever hears from you or sees you again.
daniel		How do I know you'll keep your word?
vincent		I never lie. Ask Max.     Max, have I lied?
max		No.   No.   He hasn't lied...                            *
vincent		Sure.                                                    *
daniel		Lay it on.
vincent		It's simple. What was Louis' first musical instrument?
daniel		I know all there is to know about Louis.
vincent		Then let's have it.
max		 It was a trumpet!   Wasn't it?   Wasn't it a trumpet?
daniel		Coronet. Bought it from a New Orleans pawnshop when he was a kid. 
vincent		Tin horn. Cost him a dime. Rode the junk                   * wagon and played for the neighborhood. People sold them stuff. Rags. Bottles. Whatever.
vincent		Let's go.
max		No.
vincent		What you mean, no?
max		I'm done.    Find another cab.
vincent		Max?
max		Leave me alone.                                                * I don't wanna know you!
max		You played him, man.                                     *  He got the answer right, would you                       * have let him go?
vincent		What is it with this guy?
vincent		You hassling my man again?
lenny		Who are you?
vincent		Same fare you talked to last time.
vincent		We're gay lovers, what's it to you?                       *
vincent		Hang on.  Carefully...
max		Yeah?
vincent		 Show for what?
max		 Tell her I can't make it tonight, okay?
vincent		Show up for what?
max		She's in the hospital.
vincent		You visit every night?
max		Yeah.   What difference does it make?
vincent		Cause if you don't show it breaks a routine.
max		So?
vincent		So people start looking for you, this cab. That is not good.                                  *
max		No. I can't take you to see my mother...
vincent		Since when was any of this negotiable?
vincent		Stay three paces in front of me and one to my left...
max		Waste of money.   Won't mean a thing to her.
vincent		 She carried you in her womb for nine months.
man's voice		Hold, please...
vincent		Having a good night?
max		Hi, Ma.
ida		I've been calling and calling.
max		I got caught up at work.
ida		Why couldn't you call me on the telephone? I'm lying here, wondering if something horrible happened to you...
max		                                   * I brought you flowers.
ida		What am I gonna do with flowers?
max		You're gonna cheer up.
ida		How? By worrying...                                    *                                           * ...that you spend money on                             * things...that all they're gonna do is                  * wilt and die?
max		                              * I didn't buy 'em. He did.                              *
ida		Who? Come in. What I got is not                        * contagious.                                            *  And what's your name? Sorry. My son is rude.
vincent		No harm done, madam.
ida		You paid for my flowers? They're beautiful. Max, will you introduce us?
max		Mom, Vincent.   Vincent, my mother, Ida.
vincent		I'm really happy to meet you, Mrs.                       * Rilke.
ida		Oh, call me Ida.    To what do we owe this pleasure?
vincent		Well, I was with Max when he got the call.
ida		And you came all the way here to see me?
vincent		It's nothing.
ida		Tell my son. You have to hold a gun to his head to get him to do anything.
vincent		Tell me about it.
ida		You must be an important client of Max's.
vincent		Client? I like to think of myself as his friend. A mentor.                                    *
ida		Max never had many friends. Always talking to himself in the mirror... It's unhealthy.
max		Hey, mom. How many times do I have to ask you not to do that?
ida		Do what?
max		Talk about me like...I'm...not...in the room, here.
ida		 What's he sayin'?
vincent		Ida, he says he's standing right here.                   * In the room. Here.                                       *
ida		 He's sensitive.
vincent		I know.    But I'm sure you're proud of                  * him.
ida		 Of course I'm proud. You know, he started with nothing. Look at him today. Here. Vegas. Reno...
max		Mom, Vincent's not interested.  Let's go.
vincent		* No.   I am interested. IDA What's your name, again?                                 *
vincent		Vincent...
max		I came to see you. I saw you.     You look fine. Let's go.
ida		Limousine companies.
vincent		Limousine companies?    What an achievement...
ida		Visit again?                                              *
vincent		I'm only in town tonight.                                 *
ida		When you come back?                                       *
vincent		Sure.   I promise.                                        *
vincent		Stop or I'll go back and kill her.
max		You'd do her a favor.
vincent		I'll tell her the truth!
vincent		Don't!
max		Bullshit.
vincent		 What the fuck was that?
max		Jazz.
vincent		You are screwing...with my work! My                       * prep was in there. I'm coming up on number four. The night is no longer young. Are we getting adversarial?                        *
attendant		 We've had three come in tonight. Two John Does. Maybe one's your guy.
fanning		No.   Not Ramone.
attendant		That's what's funny. These three came in within half an hour of each other. And the kid and that last guy ...they were done by the same shooter.
fanning		Why do you say that?
attendant		Same wound pattern. Two in the sternum. One in the head. Add this cat's shooting tight groups.  Double taps are a couple millimeters apart.
fanning		...yeah, I'm still at MLK. The John Doe doesn't pan out. Not Ramone. But you'll never guess who else is in the meat locker.
weidner		"Sly" to his clients...
fanning		...including my high-diving informant, Ramone, who he represented, who's still missing. Both of whom were in the exotic-substances business...
weidner		Ramone and "Sly" Clarke in one night?
fanning		In one night. Something bad is going down. And I don't think the Feeb know about it...
vincent		Limos, huh?
max		Don't start.
vincent		Hey, I'm not the one lying to my mother.
max		She hears what she wants to hear.    I don't disillusion her.
vincent		Yeah, right. Maybe she hears what you tell her.
max		Whatever   I tell her's never good                       * enough.    It's always been that way... My three   older brothers...their wives made 'em   move outta town.
vincent		You're goin' to a place called El Rodeo. It's on Whittier Boulevard in Anaheim.
max		Where on Whittier?
vincent		Look it up.
max		What's at El Rodeo?
vincent		Just drive.  They project onto you their flaws, what they don't like about themselves, their lives, whatever. And then they rank on you, instead...
max		How do you know?
vincent		I had a father like that.
max		Mothers are worse.
max		What happened?
vincent		He hated whatever I did.    Got drunk. Beat me up all the time.
max		Then what?
max		I'm sorry.
vincent		No you're not.  So driving this cab "temporarily" is                    * all bullshit...?
max		It's not bullshit.
vincent		Twelve years is not temporary.
max		You gotta get cash together. Insurance, bond, maintenance, tires. Staff-up. Client lists. It's not get the car, put asses on seats.
vincent		Why not?
max		'Cause Island Limos will be more than a ride...like a club experience, a cool groove you don't want to end. Like that. So it's gotta be perfect.                    * Perfect.
vincent		Uh-huh.
max		Plus I got bills. She's been dying of the disease since I was in high school...
vincent		Here's good.
max		Why?
vincent		I'll hold it for you in case they search you.
max		In case who searches?
vincent		The people inside. Go in and ask for Felix. He's expecting you.
max		Felix?   Okay.    What's he look like?
vincent		Dunno.   Never met him.
max		Who is he?
vincent		He's from who hired me.
max		I don't get it.
vincent		You destroyed my work-ups. And number four is due. Whatta you think, night's over? Called on account of rain?  Go be me. In there. Score the                            * backups. He'll have 'em on a flash drive or CD...
max		 Why don't you go?                   * Why me? I can't. VINCENT They don't know what I look like. And                    * I don't meet people. Like in risk                        * management. Protect anonymity. And you're not going to screw that up.
max		How'm I gonna be you?
vincent		Max, who's SoCal Cab Company?    Ralph SoCal?
max		No.
vincent		Ever met the owner?                                      *
max		No.
vincent		Well, I don't work for them. I work for their bosses. They don't get to meet me, either.
max		If...if I don't pull it off...?
vincent		They're gonna kill you.                                  *  You got ten minutes. 10:01? I drive the cab to the hospital and execute your mother on my way out of town...and don't pretend indifference.
max		I can't do this.
vincent		You threw my PC onto the freeway. You've got balls bigger than Toledo.
max		If I pull it off, it's gonna get other people killed...
vincent		Out of options, Max. Take comfort in                     * knowing you never had a choice.
max		Uh, how long you been doin' this?                        *
vincent		Why?
max		In case he asks.
vincent		Private sector? Six years.
max		You get benefits?
vincent		No. Nor paid sick leave. Quit stalling. Get out of the cab.
max		Uh, hi...
max		I'm here to see Felix.      He has something for me.
max		Uh. Say...say it's Vincent.          I'm Vincent.
weidner		Lt. Richard Weidner.      LAPD.   Major Narcotics Division.
fanning		Detective Ray Fanning.      LAPD.    Major Nar...
pedrosa		 Yeah, hi, okay. Agent Frank Pedrosa.
weidner		Thanks for seeing us...
pedrosa		Yeah. You're welcome. How can I help? What's up? Why do you wanna know about our case?
fanning		Has there been any unusual activity tonight?
pedrosa		As in...
fanning		As in a murder or maybe a murder spree in Wilshire Central.
pedrosa		All quiet on the western front. Various people are asleep. Various people are not. They come and go in cars, pickups and taxis. Other than that, we're watching air move.  ...your interest in our case?
fanning		Hood's all beat to shit.
felix		I thought you'd be taller.
felix		So.   Vincent. Explain...
max		I'm Vincent...
felix		                                    * Vincent don't meet people. The jefes                     * in Culiacan, Bogota, maybe. But he                       * won't talk to you. But, now you are                      * here. Okay. Why?
max		I lost my stuff.
felix		"Stuff"?   Your "stuff"?
max		Yeah.
felix		I want you to listen to me real well.  Special teams put together that list                     * of..."dedos."                                            *
max		Dedos?
felix		Fingers. Informants.                                     *  An important list, wouldn't you say? And you "lost" it?
max		I'm sorry.
felix		Sorry? Sorry does not put back together again Humpty Dumpty...
max		No.
felix		Do you believe in Santa Claus?
max		No.
felix		Neither do I.  But my children do. They are still small. But do you know who they like even better than Santa Claus? His helper, Pedro Negro. Black Peter. There's an old Mexican tale that tells of how Santa Claus got so very busy looking out for the good children that he had to hire some help to look out for the bad children. So he hired Pedro. And Santa Claus gave him a list with all the names of all the bad children, and Pedro would come every night to check them out. And the people, the little kids that were misbehaving, that were not saying                        * their prayers, Pedro would leave a little wooden donkey on their windows. And he would come back and if the children were still misbehaving, he would take them away and nobody would ever see them again. Now, if I am Santa Claus and you are Pedro, how do you think jolly old Santa Claus would feel if one day Pedro came into his office and said, 'I lost the list.'? How FUCKING FURIOUS do you think Santa Claus would get?!
max		I think...
felix		What?
max		I think...  ...I think you should tell the man behind me to put that gun away.
felix		What did you say?
max		 I said. Tell him to put the gun away. Before I take it and beat his bitch                       * ass to death with it.
felix		Federal?
max		You tell me. How do I know? So I tossed the list and work-ups to protect...in part...  ...your Hermes, Facconable sorry ass.
felix		Has, uh...
max		The fat man. The penthouse guy.      The jazz man. It leaves two.
felix		 Can you finish?
max		In six years, have I ever not?
pedrosa		...are you telling me Ramone Gallardo and Sylvester Clarke were murdered tonight? Both killed...?
fanning		...Sylvester for sure, Ramone...
weidner		 We got another D.O.A. One "Daniel Baker" in South Central...
weidner		Three what?
pedrosa		Three witnesses.  For a secret grand jury, secret my ass...
fanning		So who's left? Before you lose them, too...
felix		The last two...
max		I never do.
felix		Twenty-five?
max		Hell, make it fifty.
felix		Very generous.
max		 By the way. Daniel said he was sorry.
felix		 Go to Fever. He's met me. If it begins to go wrong, close his eyes. He cannot fall into their hands...
fanning		...yeah, uh-huh...African-American, medium build, dark hair...are you sure?
pedrosa		                                      * On the cab, the assault team, when                     * they are in place, will do the take-                   * down. Do NOT spook him before. I want Air Support up and to maintain at 1,500 feet.
fanning		 Anybody else in that cab?
vincent		Vegas odds would have compelled a "don't pass" bet on you walking out of there...
max		...I'm very impressed.
vincent		Washington Boulevard. After-hours dance club near Crenshaw called "Fever." Know it?
max		Twelve minutes.
vincent		You'll be late. Jump on the freeway                       * and get me to the 105 west.                               *
max		Why?
vincent		Do it.
fanning		...according to the cab company's dispatcher, this cabbie's been driving that cab for twelve years...
pedrosa		So what?
fanning		...so, you're telling me this cabbie walks into a phone booth and, shazaam, changes into a meat-eater, super- assassin? What's he do, squeeze 'em in between fares?
pedrosa		No. Cabdriver Max is floating down a storm drain. He is stuffed in the trunk of a cab. He is being devoured by flesh-eating stretococcus...
fanning		The guy, who walked out, looks like this guy...!
pedrosa		'Cause he picked a cabdriver who looks like him...
fanning		What's Vincent look like?
pedrosa		Who knows. He's a ghost...   Vincent's not even his name.
fanning		I don't know...
pedrosa		We do. 
pedrosa		Guys with trigger time, skill                           * sets...real tradecraft...                               *  ...like, look like a "cabdriver."
fanning		What are you gonna do?
pedrosa		Take down his ass.   Save our witness.
fanning		What if they're wrong?
weidner		The guy identified himself as "Vincent" and just met with the bad people!
fanning		Bullshit.    There is something else going on.
weidner		It's not our game!
vincent		 Let's go.
pedrosa		 He can head anywhere out of LAX. North or south on the 405, east on the
pedrosa		 LA101 to LA103, LA104, LA105. Fever. After-hours club on 2407 Washington, near Crenshaw. Pico Union. Hit it!
vincent		Would you have called her?
max		Who?
vincent		Your lady friend. The one who gave you her business card.  Or was she just being polite?
max		I don't know.
vincent		Why hold back? Why not act off your impulse? Pick up the phone?
max		All I owe a fare is a ride, Vincent.
vincent		It's not what you owe me. Time is fleeting. Life is short. Time is luck. One day it's gone...  You make it out of this alive, you should call her. That's what I think...anyway...
pedrosa		There...!
pedrosa		We get Yip out. You take Vincent.                           * Clean shots! Watch your backgrounds.
vincent		Booth towards the back. That's where he hangs. Fat Korean guy. Terminal acne as a youth. You go first. 
max		Don't shoot! I'm not Vincent!
max		I'm Max!   I'm a goddamn cab driver!
max		Oh, man, am I happy to see you!     I don't believe it!
fanning		Yeah. I know. Relax.     Breathe. You're okay.
max		I can't believe it.   I can't believe it...!
vincent		 GET IN!
vincent		What a clusterfuck. Only thing didn't show up was the Polish cavalry.
max		 ...fuck off.
max		That cop!  Why'd you have to do that? You couldn't wound him? The guy had a family, maybe parents, kids who gotta grow up without a dad, he was a good guy, and he believed me...
vincent		I shoulda saved him 'cause he believed you...?
max		No, not just that.
vincent		Yeah, that...
max		Yeah, so, what's wrong with that?
vincent		It's what I do for a living...
max		Some living.
vincent		Head downtown...
max		What's downtown?
vincent		How are you at math? I was hired for five hits. I did four.
max		 One more.
vincent		There you go...!
max		Whyn't you kill me and find another cab.
vincent		'Cause you're good.  We're in this together. You know...fates intertwined. Cosmic coincidence. All that crap...
max		You're full of shit.
vincent		I'm full of shit?  You're a monument of it. You even                         * bullshitted yourself, all I am is taking out the garbage. Bad guys killing bad guys...
max		'Cause that's what you said...
vincent		And you believe me...?
max		What'd they do?
vincent		How do I know?  But, they all got that "witness for                       * the prosecution" look to me. It's probably some major federal indictment against somebody who majorly does not want to get indicted... I dunno.
max		That's the reason?
vincent		That's the "why." There is no reason.  No good reason; no bad reason. To live or to die.
max		Then what are you?
vincent		 ...indifferent.
max		What's with you...?                                      *
vincent		As in...?
max		Man, if someone had a gun to your head and said: "You gotta tell me what's goin' on with that person across the street, there, what they think, who they are, how they feel, or I will kill you"...they'd have to kill you...wouldn't they...?  'Cause you are low, my brother, way low... and some standard parts that are supposed to be there?...with you, aren't. So what happened to you, man? What happened to you?
vincent		...all the cabbies in LA, I get Max, Sigmund Freud meets Dr. Ruth...
max		Answer the question.
vincent		Look in the mirror. 
max		None of your business.
vincent		Your business "plan?" Someday? "Someday my dream'll come..."?  Don't talk to me about killing.                         * You're do-in' yourself. In this yellow-and-orange prison. Bit by bit. Every day.
max		'Cause I never straightened-up and looked at it, you know...?
vincent		Slow down.
max		 Another born-to-lose deal! Then, "it's gotta be perfect to go!" You know? Risk all torqued-down.
vincent		That was a red light!
max		...not until now. So what's it all matter? It don't. Fuck it. Fix it. Nothing to lose. Right?
vincent		Slow the hell down!
max		Why? What are you gonna do? Pull the trigger? Kill us? Go ahead, man! Shoot...my ass.
vincent		Slow down!
max		Vincent?
vincent		Well.   That was brilliant.
max		Was your seatbelt fastened, honey?
sergeant		 12A75 requesting an RA unit at Grand and 9th for a TC with injuries...
max		 I'm...fine. Fine. Just dizzy and                        * shit.                                                   *
sergeant		Sit there and breathe deep, sir.                        * You'll be okay.                                         *
max		Huh?
max		Sure. Arrest me. Take me in.    Police station. LA County's good.
sergeant		                                            * PUT YOUR GUN DOWN!
max		NO!   I gotta go, see, you don't...                      *
sergeant		                                            * PUT THE GUN DOWN!
max		HEY, HEY! When did this become a negotiation?
sergeant		You're in a world of shit...
max		Good! Do us a favor. Call the police! I'm going to 6th and Fig.                          *                                           * I got no time to explain...                                *
partier		Hey, asshole!
max		Fuck off!
max		 C'mon, go through, go through...
annie		Annie Farrell.
max		 Annie...it's Max.
annie		 Max...
max		Max, the cab driver!
annie		 ...kind of a strange time to be calling...
max		Listen! Listen, okay? There's a man. His name's Vincent. He's come to kill you!
annie		He's...what? Where are you...?                         *
max		 Kill you! He is coming to kill you!
annie		 Is this a joke?   'Cause it is not funny.
max		A guy, Felix, hired him! Or people Felix works for. He's already killed witnesses, now he's coming after you! He was scoping out your building when I dropped you off. I don't know what happened, but he got into my cab.
annie		Did you say Felix? As in Reyes- Torrena? How do you know about my case? I don't understand...
max		It doesn't matter! Get out of the goddamn building...
annie		...okay, okay, Max, I believe you...I'll get out of the building...
max		No, no, wait...! 93    OMIT                                                            93
max		...he's two floors below you.
max		Where are you, what floor?
annie		Sixteen, law library and files.                            *
max		He doesn't know you're up there!    Stay right where you are! Call 911!
annie		Max, are you sure?
max		Call the goddamn police!   Don't move from that spot...
max		 Hang up. Hang up! Annie, get out! He knows where you are!
annie		Hello?   Max? What did you say?
max		Shit!
voice		...call will be answered in the order received. If this is not an emergency...
annie		There's a man in the building!     He's trying to kill me. I'm...
annie		...hello?
8/24/03 mm revs.   106.		103A   CONTINUED:                                                       103A
vincent		Max?
max		Let her go.
vincent		What are you gonna do, shoot m--
annie		Max...?
vincent		Jesus, Max. You shot my ear off.                           *
annie		Where's the next station?
max		We're almost at the next station.
vincent		Guy. Gets on a subway. Dies.  Think anybody'll notice?
8/24/03 mm revs.   113.		107A   CONTINUED:                                                  107A
****Dialogues from script :Collateral_Damage.txt****

production draft		 April 14, 2000 WARNER BROS.                           2000 4000 Warner Boulevard                 WARNER BROS. Burbank, California 91522             All Rights Reserved  FADE IN:  1A   INT./EXT. NYFD FIREHOUSE - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT                1A  One A.M. on a hellish summer night in Spanish Harlem.
junior		Hear the big news, Lieutenant? It's the twenty-first century.   We got electricity now.
junior		Got these supermarkets, too.   Big places, freezers full o' ice cream.
gordy		Open up.
gordy		Screw the twenty-first century.
gordy		Second alarm. Multiple dwelling between Third and Lex.
gordy		Top story's fully involved. We're supporting inside. Two lines up the stairs.
gordy		Junior and Mike --
gordy		-- Sal and Ronnie.
gordy		Stairs're screwed. Hug the wall.
gordy		Knock it back!
gordy		Where?
gordy		Give me the hose!
mike		This place is gone! It could flashover any second!
gordy		Give me the goddamn hose!
gordy		It's okay... Esta bien, esta bien... Come with me... Con mio...
matt		Look what we made!
anne		Nice rocket... That took a while.
gordy		He was awake when I got home.   His throat still hurts.
anne		Shit.
matt		That's a bad word.
gordy		You're right. 
anne		Sorry.
gordy		No fever.
anne		 And this time, no opening fire hydrants to play in till he's completely well.
gordy		Yes, ma'am.
anne		How was your shift?
gordy		 The usual.
anne		Dreamed I did a triple axel in an ice skating championship.
gordy		 Come back and let me see those legs again.
anne		Dr. Bob can squeeze him in at twelve. I have a patient relations meeting at twelve- fifteen. Can you take him?
gordy		I have a game. But yeah, if we do the handoff at the doctor's.
anne		 Let's get you out, sweetie. Your father just can't keep you dry.
gordy		Luis, get back! Pick up your man!
gordy		We lose, win, whatever. But one thing we never do. We never, ever give up. Right?
gordy		Luis...
gordy		What was that about?
luis		Told 'em I wouldn't play with 'em anymore.
gordy		Try Fifth.
gordy		Shit.
gordy		I'm getting outta here.
gordy		Sorry.
matt		There he is.
gordy		Anne!
gordy		Noooooo!!!
gordy		I need to see them!
dray		Device functioned in front of the Colombian Consulate just as a motorcade full of brass arrived.
phipps		Who were the brass, and why were they here?
dray		No one's talking yet, but it smells high-level. There were Colombians and Americans in the cars. Three of 'em ate it. Guy on the phone --
dray		-- is one of the survivors. Name's Brandt. C.I.A.
phipps		Check the surveillance cameras?
dray		We're pulling up the video now.
phipps		 Where's N.Y.P.D. on this?
dray		They know it's ours. They're helping with shoe-leather.
dray		We got two dead bystanders, a mother and four-year-old son. The father's over there with a leg wound.  Guy's a lieutenant with the New York F.D.
phipps		Anybody talk to him yet?
dray		We've been giving him room.
junior		Gordy.
junior		Me and Mike are here.
gordy		... I was late... They shouldn't have been there...
junior		It's not your fault.
gordy		I need to see them.
mike		No. You don't need to see 'em that way, Gordo.
junior		Get those goddamn people outta here!
phipps		Put that tape out fifty more feet.
mike		If he's not bleeding to death, leave him. He's not moving till they do.
phipps		Chalk 'em and move 'em.
phipps		We gotta get on this quick.   I need to talk to him.
phipps		Mr. Pitt, if you can you tell me... What'd you see?
gordy		 What'd I see? I saw my family die.
mike		This guy didn't do the bombing, Gordo. He's just trying to get the people who did.
gordy		I didn't see anything except the explosion.
phipps		I know this is hard. I'm sorry I had to bother you.
mike		We're gonna roll you to the hospital now and get that glass out.
phipps		Joe Phipps. F.B.I. Counter- terrorism task force.
brandt		Mike Brandt.
phipps		What got this place blown up?
brandt		We'll have this discussion somewhere else more secure, after I get your clearance.
phipps		Whatever it takes. But I got a bomber in the wind. I need everything you can give me, and I need it now.
mike		Hang on.
sal		Dammit...
mike		Tell me about it.
sal		How's he holding up?
mike		He's shut down... We were hoping they'd keep him here, and he wouldn't have to go home right away, but they're cutting him loose.
sal		Want me to stay at home with him?
mike		Rookie's taking the first shift. I'm just getting the schedule at the firehouse rearranged now.
sal		Hey.   Got here as fast as I could.
sal		I know it sucks... It really sucks...
sal		How's the leg?
ronnie		Cut's deep, but no major vessels were severed. He's got a load 'o silk holding it all together.
junior		Just came over the police radio... Consulate surveillance cameras caught the bomber in the act. He was disguised as a cop.
gordy		... I saw him... I saw a cop.
sal		Christ.    Gordy...
gordy		I gotta help 'em get the bastard.
phipps		How long before we have a secure computer network?
dray		An hour.   They're building it now.
phipps		What do you got?
phipps		Do it.
phipps		Run a total analysis. I want to know if this asshole's right or left-handed. I want everything you can get outta this film.
phipps		Any helpful information coming outta Colombia?
agent		Not yet. Sat-Intel hasn't picked up any related data-traffic, either.
dray		Gordon Pitt's here. He says he saw a cop at the scene.
phipps		The cart was stolen from the Central Park Precinct yesterday.
gordy		That's him. That's the son of a bitch I bumped into.
phipps		The bomb's in the cart.
phipps		We think the bomb was triggered by a cell phone. The guy doesn't have one in his hands here. Did you see a cell phone when you ran into him?
gordy		... No.
phipps		How much time passed between then and the explosion?
gordy		... Seconds... Five, ten...
phipps		We think maybe he got into the brown Ford. You see him then?
gordy		All I cared about was getting to my wife and boy.
dray		 Guy still had enough time to get out a phone and dial it in.
phipps		 We might need to call you in again to look at some photos.
gordy		... I touched him...
gordy		How's that for collateral damage?
phipps		Mr. Ortiz-Dominguez has agreed not to press charges if you make full restitution.
gordy		I've already paid. With my family.
phipps		Take care of it.
phipps		Gordy, this is Mike Brandt.
brandt		Mr. Pitt.
brandt		I'm very sorry for your loss... I lost people, too.
phipps		... Mike was in the motorcade that day... He's the chief U.S. intelligence officer overseeing Colombia.
brandt		Don't worry, Mr. Pitt, we're gonna get the son-of-a-bitch.
gordy		You know where he is?
brandt		We believe The Wolf's in hiding in an area of Colombia controlled by the E.L.C., extreme Marxist guerrillas... He thinks he's in a safe haven.
phipps		I know it's hard for you right now, Mr. Pitt. We're all sorry. But why don't you go home. We're taking care of things.
brandt		Here's my card. Call me any time.
gordy		What kind of twisted people do things like this?
orosco		You interested in the big picture or all the unpleasant details?
gordy		My family died because of what's going on down there. I want to know all I can.
orosco		Well, basically, the situation in Colombia sucks...
mike		Haven't heard from you in a couple days.
gordy		Been busy.
mike		Yeah.   I can see that.
gordy		E.L.C. attack platoon... These assholes kill innocent people all the time in Colombia.
gordy		Thirteen dead in a bus.  Or him.
mike		Hey, we never turned down free beer, and rookie's buying, you believe that? He certified today, he's off probation.
gordy		 Ronnie couldn't find a fire with both hands.
mike		 Yeah.   Let's go tell him that.
mike		C'mon, Gordo.
mike		We aren't gonna let 'em drink all the beer, are we?
mike		Low on beer, Ronnie.
ronnie		Yeah.   I'll get more.
mike		I'll tell you what'll be great: when you get back to work with us.
junior		Yeah, how long is it?
sal		Week, two weeks?
gordy		Shrinks say ten more days.
sal		Like I said.
mike		Fucking doorknob they put in temporary command...
gordy		Morgan, the guy from 23, right?
junior		What a jerkoff.
sal		Even makes you look good, Gordo.
ronnie		Hey, Gordy --
gordy		I'm gone three weeks and this place falls apart.
junior		The temp lieutenant put it out back, and Art hit it with his truck.
ronnie		 We're having problems with the portable pump again, too.
gordy		Who backed over that?... My tools still here?
sal		Upstairs in your locker.
gordy		Figured you guys would've sold my stuff at a yard sale by now.
gordy		You ever stay on one channel long enough to hear what they're saying?
gordy		Go back!   Go back!
mike		What?
mike		This guy, Quaddafi, that Bin Laden... We never get these assholes.
brandt		... Senator, the failure of one operation shouldn't cause your committee to question financing everything else we're doing down there...
brandt		... I know it looks bad, and I appreciate your support. Together we'll get it done... Yeah. 'bye.  Without his father's money, that asshole'd be keeping bees for a living... What?
updegraf		Gordy Pitt's on the phone.
brandt		No.
updegraf		He's called every day.
brandt		I don't need it.
updegraf		Mr. Pitt, Mr. Brandt'll have to get back to you.
gordy		Tell him not to bother.
immigration officer		Business or pleasure, senor?
gordy		... Pleasure.
immigration officer		One moment, senor.
immigration superior		If you would come with me, please.
gordy		Is there a problem?
immigration superior		We know who you are, Mr. Pitt.
gordy		Says so right there in my passport.
immigration superior		We're aware your wife and child were killed in the bombing in New York.  It's better for you to visit another country. For your own sake.
gordy		... You giving me a choice?
immigration superior		Yes. But not about staying in Colombia.
immigration superior		These men will escort you onto whatever flight you wish.
immigration superior		It's The Wolf you're after, yes?
immigration superior		... Then I've just done you a bigger favor than you know.
cab driver		My cousin, Ever.
gordy		How far's Colombia?
cab driver		Beyond those mountains... The trail is very dangerous, but do not worry, Ever will get you there... You can pay him then... You can pay me now.
cab driver		Gracias, senor.
cab driver		Que la vaya bien.
gordy		Aqui?   Colombia?...
colombian girl		Panama.
colombian girl		Colombia.
colombian girl		Panama... Colombia.
gordy		Gracias.
brandt		Find your fucking leak?
rocha		Not yet. And it could be your fucking leak.
brandt		All due respect, Noel, it's not likely... And we don't need the whole world looking into what we're doing down here... We find the son-of-a-bitch again, we're bypassing protocols...
updegraf		Check this out.
brandt		Jesus Christ...
updegraf		 The man whose wife and son died in New York. One of your units found his passport and credit cards on some gunrunners near Panama. Gunrunners say they left him alive.
brandt		What, he thinks he can get The Wolf himself?
rocha		We have too much time and too many people invested to have a loose cannon walking around.
brandt		 Throw out the net. Have him picked up... Just make sure no one kills him.
oncoming driver		Inspecion militar. Chequeo de papeles.
gordy		Habla Ingles?... Que pasa?
gordy		Where are all of you going?
gordy		None of these people have papers?
older man		Mina.
gordy		No!
gordy		Mina... Mina...
gordy		Alto.
gordy		Don't move... Don't move...
gordy		You'll be okay... You'll be okay.
gordy		Guerrilla bastards.
gordy		No!   Alto!
colombian woman		No autobusses para este lugar. Solamente el barco en el rio.
colombian woman		El rio.
armstrong		Hey, yo, dude, here's a seat, man!
gordy		No, that's okay --
armstrong		I was hoping for someone I could communicate with.
armstrong		Only room's at the back near the bano, and I'd advise against it, unless you like poop.
armstrong		Philip Armstrong. Assiniboia, Sasketchewan, Canada.  Deerborn Heavy Equipment.
gordy		... Gordy Pitt.
armstrong		Hey, howya doing? I love Germany.
gordy		Austria.   American now.
armstrong		I love America. Never been to Austria. Where from in America would that be?
gordy		New York City.
armstrong		I don't like New York City. Buildings're too big. What kinda work you in?
gordy		 Coffee. I buy beans.
armstrong		Can't drink caffeine. Makes my stomach do the rumba. I like that commercial guy with the sombrero and the mule, though. Headed upstream, eh? Where to?
gordy		Caguan.
armstrong		... You've never been to Caguan, eh?
gordy		How do you know?
armstrong		'Cause no one in their right mind would ever go back. Caguan's in the guerrilla zone run by the E.L.C. E.L.C. as in 'Extra Loathsome Communists.' They don't care, and they kill. I'm going there myself. But I have a 'get outta jail free' card.
armstrong		E.L.C. travel pass. I can go anywhere I want.  Everyone needs equipment fixed.
armstrong		If you don't have one of these, you don't want to be up there, Gordy.
gordy		Por favor.
gordy		Con mucho gusto.
armstrong		Got kids, eh?
updegraf		One of Rocha's infiltration teams just radioed in... We got our big break...
armstrong		That little kid and I had a nice, long snooze... We're almost to Mompos.  Beautiful country.
gordy		It better be.    A lotta people're dying for it.
armstrong		 Y'know, I haven't noticed one darn body floating downstream this whole trip, have you?
gordy		I was thinking... Maybe we could travel together into Caguan. You could show me around.
armstrong		 Pass is only good for one person, if that's your idea, which I think it is... Besides, I can't risk traveling around up there in the company of a big gringo with a dumb-ass cover story about coffee beans.
gordy		I've got money. I'll buy the pass from you.
armstrong		I've worked too hard for it. And you don't have that kind of money on you.
gordy		I'll be getting some life insurance money --
armstrong		 It's all cash and carry down here, Gordy.
armstrong		Mompos... You want to have some fun, we'll hook up later. I always schedule a stopover. To sample the local wares and such.  Life can be what you make it here on the frontier.
gordy		No, thanks.
armstrong		Gotta get off the boat anyway. Mompos is the last stop. From here into the guerrilla zone you can only travel by panga... If you change your mind, I'll be at the Tropicale later. It's a gringo bar. Just follow the cockroaches.
armstrong		Sicarios. Death squads. Avoid those dudes at all costs.
armstrong		Federales are looking for someone.
fat federale		Senor Pitt?
fat federale		You'll have to come with us.
gordy		Why?
fat federale		Come with us, please.
armstrong		I never met a nose I couldn't hang a spoon on.
armstrong		Yahtzee!
fat federale		Come along, Mr. Pitt.
armstrong		Police catch you trying to steal my hat, you asshole?!
armstrong		Fucking hat thief!
armstrong		Get outta here --
fat federale		Gringos...
armstrong		That stun gun wasn't cool.
armstrong		Haven't peed my pants in a real long time.
gordy		 You shouldn't have helped me.
armstrong		Yeah, well, I guess all these assholes down here are just starting on my nerves.
armstrong		So what the hell did you do to land us in here? And don't jerk me around, eh?
gordy		The Wolf killed my wife and son in New York.
armstrong		... Oh, you're that guy, eh? I'm sorry, man... And what, you came down here to even things out?
armstrong		Did you even have a plan?
gordy		Yeah. Go to Caguan, find The Wolf and kill him.
armstrong		E.L.C.
armstrong		If you can't kill them, don't even talk to them.
brandt		Enjoy your trip?
brandt		We asked you to leave it to us.
gordy		And you guys still haven't got him.
brandt		It's not over yet... The guys next door are in The Wolf's elite bodyguard unit. Where he goes, they go. We're gonna ask questions. And we're gonna get answers... And you're staying right here till our bomber's dead.
gordy		Don't breathe.
armstrong		 You're not running through the fire, eh?
gordy		Close your mouth.
gordy		I'll find a boat to take us upriver.
armstrong		No. I told you. The pass is only good for one person. And you're too dangerous to travel with.
armstrong		It hasn't been there since we landed.
armstrong		Aw, hell... I was through with this place anyway...
armstrong		I'll call ahead and tell Felix I'm not coming, and you're my replacement. He'll meet you in Caguan and take you to the plantation... What do you know about diesel engines?
gordy		All the fire trucks are diesels.
armstrong		You'll have to be Austrian, eh? They hate Americans. Name's gotta change, too, in case they're watching the news.  It'll buy you a little time to look around Caguan. But you'll never find The Wolf.
gordy		Heinrich Beckmann.
armstrong		Huh?
gordy		My Austrian name.
armstrong		Luck got you this far. But up there, luck doesn't make it. I hope you know you're gonna die.
boatman		La zona guerrillera.
felix		Beckmann.
gordy		Yeah.
felix		Come with me.
felix		Armstrong should have called sooner. We don't like changes here... If I didn't need the equipment fixed, I'd send you back.
felix		But now we have to see the E.L.C. Supervisor for Caguan.
elc supervisor		Your passport was stolen.
gordy		In Mompos.
elc supervisor		... Mompos is a shithole. Not like Caguan... Why didn't Armstrong come?
gordy		He was arrested in Ecuador. He got drunk and fooled around with a police officer's wife.
felix		 We need to fix the equipment. We have delivery deadlines to meet.
elc supervisor		 He's your responsibility. Don't let him out of your sight.
felix		Si.   Gracias.
felix		The Supervisor made you my responsibility... You don't go anywhere without me, you understand?
gordy		No problemo.
gordy		The E.L.C. guards your coffee beans?
felix		... Coffee beans? Shit. Armstrong didn't tell you much...
felix		The problem's with the diesel generators. The sons-of-bitches keep breaking down.
felix		We're using portables to keep production going, but they don't supply enough power to the heat lamps, and we have to dry a lot of... 'coffee beans.'
felix		We can fix anything, but these keep dying on us... You'll start now. I'll have tools brought to you.  Armstrong's a magician with them. Let's hope you have his skill.
felix		Well?
gordy		I can't work with these pieces of junk.
felix		Junk? These generators cost a fortune.
gordy		Then treat them that way.
felix		 Armstrong always fixes them.
gordy		Armstrong wants your money. He makes them work, but he doesn't fix them... To do this right, we gotta order parts from Europe. In the meantime, I can make something temporary. There must be a machine shop in town.
felix		... Yes.
gordy		Let's go.
felix		Let's get moving.
gordy		I'm thirsty. How about you?   Want to get something to drink?
felix		We have to get back.
gordy		I've been working all day out in the sun. I need a drink... nice cold beer? How about it? I saw a bar in town.
gordy		With the spare parts, I'll have the generators running in two hours... We have time for a couple beers.
felix		Okay.   Just a beer. Maybe two.
felix		This is mine. This is the reason I come here... right, Berta? Me amas?
berta		 Si, amor.
felix		... She's hot, isn't she?
gordy		Yeah.
gordy		Armstrong said to watch my butt around here. I guess the fucking Americans come down and shoot everyone all the time.
felix		Especially now, since the bomb in New York.
gordy		Yeah, I heard about it.   Who did it?
felix		The Wolf, and they'll never catch him.
gordy		Ever see him?
felix		Once.
gordy		Where?
felix		 If you know too much around here, it can get you killed.
gordy		Tell me what doesn't get you killed around here.
gordy		We'd better get back, huh?
felix		 ... Shit. It's late.
gordy		You're too drunk. I'll drive.
felix		One day, I'm going to screw Berta.
felix		... I'll take her to a small restaurant... We'll have lobster and drink lots of wine... I'll get her drunk... We'll drive home... I'll carry her inside... I'll kiss her... And then, I'll screw her in my bed...
felix		... And when I am done screwing her, she'll never want to look at another man again...
felix		What the fuck are you doing?!
gordy		Hey, easy... What's the problem?
felix		You're going the wrong goddamn way!
gordy		I am?... Looks different in the dark...
felix		Turn around!
felix		You drive where I say... Or the Supervisor will have us both shot.
felix		It's afternoon. Yesterday, you said it would only take two more hours.
gordy		I have this one ready to go.
felix		What about the other one?
gordy		I just need another part from town, and it's five more minutes.
felix		... Shit.     Fine. Let's go.
felix		Why're you bringing the tool box?
gordy		The old part's in there. I need to match it, and it's all greasy.
gordy		Berta working today?
felix		Ha!   Puta!
gordy		You as thirsty as I am?
felix		No.
gordy		We can't stop for one beer?
felix		There's beer at the plantation.
gordy		 There's no Berta at the plantation. I like drinking beer around pretty girls, not a bunch of guys with automatic rifles.
felix		To hell with Berta.
gordy		What happened? Last night you were in love with her.
felix		... I had a dream... I fed her lobster, got her drunk, and she rejected me for another man.  Dreams tell the future.
gordy		... That wasn't a dream, that was the alcohol talking... You saying two men can't go have a beer and look at women's breasts because of pink elephants?... Nothing makes any sense down here.
gordy		Go ahead and shoot me, and you fix the goddamn generator. Part's in the back.
felix		You know I'm your man, baby.
gordy		I have to piss.
guerrilla		Alto!
gordy		Yo trabajo con Felix. Felix --  -- la cantina. Con Berta.
felix		Are you trying to get us both killed?
gordy		I went for a walk. I figured you wanted to be alone with Berta.
felix		 I'll make sure he's on a shorter leash.
felix		Shit...
felix		You're working all night, Beckmann. That generator gets fixed, and you're out of my hair in the morning.
gordy		That make you happy?
gordy		Where's my money?
felix		You'll get it in the morning.
gordy		This where Armstrong stays?
felix		This is where you stay... A boat will take you down river at seven.
gordy		Come on, baby... come on, baby...
gordy		Just in time...
beaten man		 Organize the others. Find him.
felix		 He can't be far. You'll catch --
beaten man		 Keep looking.
gordy		No!    Stop!   Alto!
gordy		Get back!
woman		Claudio!!
the wolf		You bastard!
the wolf		You think you can kill The Wolf?!
the wolf		You think you can kill The Wolf?!
gordy		You killed my wife and son --
woman		Claudio.
woman		Claudio.
the wolf		You were just saved by your guardian angel.
the wolf		One of the men in the jail with you in Mompos is dying. He was burned in your explosion.
the wolf		You want to kill me? Come and kill me.
the wolf		You Americans think you have all the answers. And really, you're so naive...
the wolf		... You see one peasant with a gun, and you never ask why he has to have it. You just run to give your billions to the nearest soldiers, no matter how merciless or corrupt they are.
the wolf		That's why I'm teaching America a lesson... that's why there'll be more bombs... and more families like yours will pay the price.
selena		Are you alright?
gordy		... Who are you?
selena		My name is Selena.
gordy		... His wife?
selena		Yes.
selena		I brought you food.
gordy		Why feed me?    Why not just kill me?
selena		Are you so anxious to die?
gordy		... Thanks.
selena		The men in jail with you in Mompos... They say you talked to a man from the C.I.A.
gordy		I'm not one of them.   I'm here for my own reasons.
selena		Claudio used to be a teacher. I was a medical aid worker. We met in Guatemala, in an Indian village called Guamaunco. We were married there. Sophia, our daughter was born there. Claudio was kind and loving, and we were happy... We were there four years when the civil war broke out... The guerrillas were all around us, but left us alone... Then they made an attack on the army nearby. The next night, soldiers came to our village. They were led by American 'advisors'... They accused us of helping the rebels. Our women were raped. Our men were tortured. Our homes were burned... We crawled out into the fields, but they threw grenades, and Sophia...
selena		... my baby girl was hit by shrapnel... she bled to death in Claudio's arms.
selena		Claudio joined the guerrillas. When that war ended, we moved to the next war, and the next... Each fight has only deepened his hatred. And poisoned his soul.  He's unable to love anything anymore...
gordy		Why are you still here?
selena		Because I know he was a good man, who's been consumed by rage because of what he lost... Just like you.
gordy		I'm not like him.
selena		Not yet.
gordy		He kills innocent people.  He's planning to kill more.
brandt		It's well-sited... can't surprise 'em, so you gotta outgun 'em...  So that's what we're gonna do.
updegraf		We're gonna hit it?
brandt		We're not just gonna hit it, we're gonna wipe if off the globe. Cats, rats, dogs and mice. If it's moving, it's dead.
updegraf		Hitting the whole village could make for a P.R. problem.
brandt		I don't care what the Puerto Ricans say.  Which part of the word 'war' don't you understand? Our mission down here isn't just about catching The Wolf.
updegraf		... What about Gordy Pitt?
brandt		He was told not to be here... The
guerrilla		It's time, gringo.
guerrilla		Bath time... You stink, gringo.
updegraf		The weather system's intensifying.
brandt		 What?
updegraf		The storm's gonna be real bad for at least twelve hours. Here's the data.
updegraf		Air ops says it's too heavy for the Blackhawks. Also, Sat-Intel is saying the clouds're too thick, and we're blind.
brandt		 Got any good news?
updegraf		Yeah. The creeks are rivers around Caguan. Unless The Wolf's a fish, he's not moving... And there's fresh coffee.
brandt		Only good thing down here... Put everyone on red till tomorrow night. And then, I don't care if there's a typhoon, I want those fucking rotors turning.
selena		I tried to stop him.
selena		He's gone back.
gordy		 The United States? Another bomb?
selena		Yes.
gordy		Where?
gordy		Where?
selena		... Washington D.C.
gordy		Where in Washington?
selena		... He had pictures of a building...
gordy		Which building?
selena		I don't know.
gordy		We can't let it happen.
selena		It's too late.     No one can stop him now.
gordy		We'd never make it.
selena		I got down here from New York...
gordy		How many more kids have to die? And for what?
selena		... I'm his wife...
gordy		If you don't stop it, you're as much to blame as he is.
selena		I can't.
brandt		It's time to make The Wolf howl.
selena		We're going with you.
gordy		How do we get out?
selena		The guard is the only one close. When we're past him, we can slip into the jungle. Mauro's waiting for us there.
selena		He's on the right... No needless killing.
ground commander		We're going for body count.
selena		We have to swim.
gordy		Go!
gordy		You okay?
selena		Your hired soldiers can't shoot.
ground commander		No sign of The Wolf. Two people, possibly a third, got away. They're in the river.
gordy		Under the water!  Uno, dos, tres...
brandt		They couldn't have made it this far. Go back upstream.
gordy		Hang on. We just have to keep floating a little bit more...
gordy		You were shot.
selena		... I'm okay.
gordy		We gotta get you outta the river.
gordy		Esta bien.   Esta bien.
selena		He can't hear or speak.
selena		He's a war orphan. I adopted him.
gordy		You're lucky.
selena		I know where we are. There's a secret trail nearby that leads toward Mompos.
gordy		Can you walk?
selena		It's just my arm.
gordy		How do you say 'hello'?
gordy		Yo soy Americano... Gordy Pitt... Gordy Pitt...
brandt		F.B.I.'s on the radio.     Tell 'em everything you know.
gordy		They both get asylum.    And she needs a medic.
brandt		On the plane.
gordy		What about the asylum?
brandt		 They'll get it. But she's in my custody till we're done with her.
gordy		He wasn't even there.
claudio		 Now in casual clothes. He's looking over the beautiful and busy station. Contemplating the devastation and death that a bomb planted here would wreak.
phipps		These buildings best match what you described to us.
selena		I don't recognize anything... I saw only parts of the building... I'm sorry.
phipps		That's okay.   We'll keep trying.
selena		I think   it's a public place. He said he   wanted the people of America   to feel the terror. 'Terror   is all they understand.' He said   it over and over...
phipps		 Double up on public venues: museums, theaters, transport... Put in all the extra undercover we can.
gordy		Where're we going?
brandt		Inter-agency headquarters for our efforts in Latin America.
phipps		It's secure, and we can coordinate all departments here.
phipps		My people will debrief you in another room... We'll take the boy to a safe house across the street... He'll be well cared for.
selena		No... No... No...
selena		I'm sorry.
phipps		That's okay.
selena		No...
gordy		I was underground. I couldn't see anything.
gordy		No.
selena		... No...
selena		He had that book! Let me see it!
selena		That's it!
brandt		Union Station.
phipps		 Put it under total surveillance. Get a bomb team in there with dogs. Make 'em seeing-eye dogs if you have to. And pull whatever security video they have for the last two days.
dray		Why not just shut it down?
phipps		If we spook him, we don't know what his secondary target'll be.
selena		Please don't kill him.
phipps		That's him, isn't it?
selena		 Yes.
phipps		He was there yesterday. Just stood there and left... So far, the dogs haven't found anything, so maybe we're ahead of him.
brandt		What's he waiting for?
selena		He takes his time. Like he told you, he enjoys it.
phipps		Are you okay?
selena		I'm sorry... I think I'm going to be sick.
brandt		In here.
phipps		Get copies of this freeze frame to all the undercover people and the sniper teams.
dray		You got it.
phipps		And nobody caps him until we get that bomb tagged. After that, I don't give a shit what happens to him.
brandt		He always hid his face. Why's he giving us a clear picture now?
phipps		Feeling better?
selena		I think I'd feel better if I could rest a little and see my son.
brandt		Escort her.
gordy		I've told you all I know.
gordy		What's that?
gordy		Eleven.
gordy		She was killed in Guatemala.
gordy		Shit...
phipps		We think the bomb was triggered by a cell phone.
phipps		Did you see a cell phone when you ran into him?
gordy		No.
gordy		Where's Selena?!
phipps		She went to see her son.
gordy		She's lying!   She's The Wolf!
brandt		Everybody out!     Clear this floor! Now!
gordy		You killed them.
selena		 One woman, one boy -- they mean nothing next to the thousands who've been slain.
gordy		They were my family.
gordy		The killing ends here.
selena		It will never end.
selena		Please help me!
gordy		No.    You don't understand.
selena		He's trying to kill me!
gordy		Hold us both till the police get here.
brandt		We got the bitch.
gordy		You're no better than she is.
mike		It'll be good to get you back.
gordy		It's good to be home.
****Dialogues from script :Colombiana.txt****

august 2009		ON A BLACK SCREEN
voice		Cataleya!
mother		Cat! Is your homework finished yet?
cat		Working on it Mama.
mother		You draw beautifully my love, but if you want to be something in life you have to study.
cat		I am studying Mama. I want to be a super hero.
mother		Better to be a doctor. A lawyer.
cat		Are we going to see Uncle Emilio?
mother		I don't know. Just waiting to hear from your father.
don luis		I can't believe this.
fabio		Why not?
don luis		Because I love you Fabio. Like a brother.
fabio		And I love you Don Luis. Like a brother.
don luis		Can you believe this guy Marco? We started when we were little...how old were we Fabio?
fabio		Ten.
don luis		Ten year old bastards stealing apples from the carts in the market. After all we've been through. And now we're on top, he wants to leave...
fabio		Luis, I'm going to be honest with you. You remember I had that operation?
don luis		That was last year.
fabio		Since then, I'm not a hundred percent. And you can't do this thing if you're not a hundred percent. I'm tired.
don luis		So you'll take a rest.
fabio		You know how many times we should have been dead?
don luis		I don't even want to count.
fabio		Neither do I. But you gotta think. How lucky we are to still be alive.
don luis		Yeah. That's right. We're alive. And what about the future of this thing we built?
fabio		It's yours. It's not my thing any more.
don luis		I'm not going to talk you out of it, am I cabron?
fabio		I'll always be there for you Luis. Just pick up the phone, I'm there.
don luis		I'm gonna hold you to that. You bastard.  I'm going to miss you.
fabio		And I'm going to miss you.
don luis		OK. Enough of this sentimental bullshit. Next we'll be crying like two old women. Come on! One last drink, huh?
don luis		To the future.
fabio		Bueno.
don luis		So. Business is all clear?
fabio		All clear.
fabio		It's all here.
don luis		No other copies?
fabio		You even have to ask?
don luis		Hey.
fabio		Adios Marco. Make sure he doesn't get in too much trouble.
marco		Adios Don Fabio. I'll do my best.
don luis		Kill this motherfucker.
fabio		This fucker! The motherfucker!
driver		Not OK Boss?
fabio		This bastard thinks I'm an idiot. Playing it all mellow and shit. If he would have yelled and screamed and threatened to kill my whole family, it would have been OK. We have an hour to get out of here. At most.
mother		Fabio?
fabio		We've got ten minutes.
mother		 Cataleya, go pack!
cat		I'm packed Mama.
fabio		Listen to me my darling. Just in case of anything. This...
fabio		This is your passport. Do you understand?
fabio		You find yourself alone? You go to the address on this card. Show it to the man at the front gate.
cat		I don't understand papa.
fabio		You don't have to understand. You just have to listen, and remember.
man		 Hola. We want to see Don Fabio.
bodyguard		He's not home.
man		You mind if we wait?
bodyguard		Your time.
fabio		And this will keep you safe.
fabio		The Cataleya orchid. It comes from one place on Earth. Our place. My mother, your grandmother, used to grow them. Every morning I would wake up to the sight of them. The smell of them. That's why I named you after them. It reminds us of who we are.
mother		I'm ready.
man		They said he's not home yet.
man		OK. OK.
man		Change of plans.
fabio		Back!
fabio		Too late. Get ready!
fabio		I love you very much.
cat		I love you too Papa.
fabio		Alicia!
marco		You in the kitchen. You, the bedroom. You, the back.
marco		Hey! What are you doing?
gunman		Don Luis said kill everyone.
marco		He also said no names.
gunman		She won't remember.
marco		HEY!
marco		She's a kid.
gunman		So what?
marco		What do you mean so what? You take a kid, teach them, they have value.
gunman		I couldn't even get ten bucks for her in the street.
marco		Are you stupid or what? Here.
marco		Here's twenty asshole. Go do your job.
marco		 Remember me Cataleya?
marco		I was at your confirmation. My name is Marco, and I was a very good friend of your father. I see he gave you his medal.
marco		The Cataleya orchid. His symbol. Your name. That's good. This way you will always remember him.  I know this is a terrible thing for you to have seen.
marco		Some things are too complicated for a kid to understand. This is one of them. But I am going to try explain it and make it very simple for you. So you understand. Now, you know who Don Luis is?
marco		Of course you do. He was your father's best friend since they're kids. He's like an Uncle to you. You know he has always been good to your family, don't you?
marco		This house, the food you eat, the clothes you wear. Even your school fees. All this comes from Don Luis. You know that?
marco		But when someone is good to you and you are not good to them back, then bad things happen. Things like...
marco		This.
marco		I know you are a smart girl. You do well in school. So I know this is not too complicated for you to understand. Am I right?
marco		Good. Now, your father had something that belonged to Don Luis. A little thing. No bigger than...
marco		This. Maybe it was in this.
marco		Do you know what I am talking about?
marco		Excellent. Do you know where it is?
marco		Well, if you give it to me, Don Luis will be very grateful. And very generous. He will make sure that you are clothed, fed, and sent to the very best school. You will have everything you want. 
marco		So why don't you just give that little thing which belongs to him. Will you do that?
marco		You are a smart girl.
marco		And in this life, smart girls get everything they want. What do you want Cat?
marco		Just tell me sweetheart...what do you want?
cat		 To kill Don Luis!
marco		AAARRRGGGHHHH!!!!!
marco		Get her!
marco		We need her alive!
marco		Go! Go!
marco		There!
marco		Alive!
marco		North! Go North! We're cutting off the southern streets!
gunman		North!
gunman		Let's go.
marco		We got her! Close the net!
marco		What is she doing?
marco		No!
marco		Get down there!
gunman		 We lost her!
marco		FUCK! FUCK!
voice		Excuse me...
american 1		And you say you have something for us?
american 1		May I see it?
american 1		Oh jeez...
american 1		 Thank you.
american 1		We have to record this.
american 1		Where did you get this?
cat		My Papa.
american 1		And where is your Papa?
cat		Dead.
american 1		Did he tell you what this is?
cat		Yes...my passport.
voice		We are making our final approach to Miami International airport. Please fasten your seat belts.
man		Come with me.
bureaucrat		She's the one?
man		She is indeed.
bureaucrat		You must have done something pretty important to get the royal treatment little lady.
bureaucrat		Welcome to America.
man		You like music?
voice		It's been our mission statement since we first opened our doors in nineteen twenty three...
headmisstress		To provide a safe, healthy nurturing environment where young women can get the education they will need to meet the challenges of that amazing adventure called life. How does that sound to you, my dear?
man		It's been a long day for her. Here's the check for the year's tuition.
man		And the five hundred dollars allowance for the first six months.
headmisstress		Which we keep right here...
headmisstress		And give you twenty a week for incidentals.
headmisstress		What do we say darling?
cat		Where do I sleep?
monitor		Girls, this is your new classmate. Please welcome her and show her the ropes.  Wake up is at seven. Sweet dreams.
sherri		I'm Sherri. And you are?
cat		Very tired.
sherri		Well, 'very tired', I'm sure you want to lay down and rest your little head?
cat		I do.
sherri		There's your bed...
cat		But it's gonna cost you.  Twenty dollars.
sherri		A week. Peace has it's price, y'know what I'm saying?
sherri		Are we clear on that?
cat		Twenty dollars a week.
sherri		We got a smart one!
sherri		You can go now.  In peace.
ticket agent		Hola chica, where are we wanting to go today?
ticket agent		Chicago is not next door, you know.
cat		How much?
man		Hey kid. You know what time it is?
man		It's late, and this is not the kind of place a kid should be hanging out. What are you doing here?
man		Who are you?
cat		Cataleya.
man		Wait here.
man		Emilio.
man		There's a girl looking for you.
emilio		I'm not interested in a girl right now.
man		It's not that sort of thing. She's eight.
man		Says her name's Cataleya.
man		Come with me.
man		Hey!
emilio		Cataleya?
cat		Uncle Emilio?
emilio		Madonna! I thought you were dead!
emilio		I thought you were all...
emilio		You're safe now.
emilio		You're safe.
emilio		Gracias mama.
emilio		Good morning.
mama		Buenos diaz Cara. Come. Sit. I'll make you some eggs.
mama		You have your mother's beautiful eyes. Don't be scared. This is your home.
emilio		When was the last time you slept?
cat		I don't know. A long time ago.
emilio		Well good. A growing body needs sleep. When I was your age I would sleep half the day. I don't know if it helped with the growing, but I was well rested for whatever came after.
cat		Whose room is that?
emilio		My son. Your cousin.
cat		Where is he?
emilio		He's dead.
cat		Killed?
emilio		Yes.
cat		By who?
emilio		No one who is still alive.
emilio		You are very talented. Is this what you want to be? An artist?
cat		I used to want to be like Lara. A super agent.
emilio		Not anymore?
emilio		And now?
cat		 I want to be a killer.
cat		Can you help?
emilio		Sure.
emilio		The good news is your father bought you your life with what he gave you. The bad news is Don Luis was playing both sides, and has disappeared. You tore down everything he spent years building up with that little chip. It is something he will not forget. There is a law in this thing of ours. If someone does you, the revenge goes all the way down the line. Women, children, Grandmothers, dogs, cats. No exceptions.
cat		Are you trying to scare me?
emilio		I am trying to educate you.
principal		Normally we don't accept students in the middle of the academic year, but under the circumstances, losing her parents in that tragic car accident...
principal		Here.
principal		These are the school supplies you'll need.
emilio		She's still in a bit of shock.
principal		Of course. See you Monday Cataleya. Such a pretty name.
emilio		We'll get all this stuff, then go over to this little place I know down on Maxwell street for some of these hot dogs the Polish people make here.
emilio		You like hot dogs?
emilio		Hey!
emilio		Hey!
emilio		Where you going?
cat		I've already been to school. I told you what I want to be. You don't want to help me, fine. I'll do it myself.
emilio		Chica. Any idiot can be a killer. Look!
emilio		You want me to teach you to be a killer? No problema. I'll teach you. But you'll be dead in five years. 
emilio		Now what's it going to be?
cat		But I still want to be a killer.
emilio		 Cabron!
cop 1		So then I suggest, y'know, we buy some things to spice it up a bit.
cop 2		Define things.
cop 1		A garter belt, some of those stockings that come up the thigh...it's fourteen years. Know what I mean?
cop 2		Yeah. No matter how much you like steak, sometime a lamb chop is not a bad thing.
cop 1		Exactly.
cop 1		What the...
supermodel		Oops...
cop 1		That's all you have to say? Oops?
cop 1		Funny?
cop 1		Wanna laugh you crazy bitch? I'll give you something to laugh about!
sergeant		No license, no registration. No ID except a library card. Well Ms...
sergeant		Valarie Phillips in addition to all that...you're being charged here with DUI, destruction of police property, driving the wrong way on a two way street...
cat		Is that it?
sergeant		Unless you can think of anything else you should be charged with.
cat		 Wearing no panties?
sergeant		That's not a crime.
cat		Thank goodness.
sergeant		Take her in the back, lock her up, put a cup of coffee in with her. Let her sleep it off, we'll book her tomorrow.
marshal		US Marshal Warren. We have Gennaro Rizzo here on an overnight.
sergeant		Who?
marshal		Rizzo. The Mafia guy? On the way to testify up in San Francisco tomorrow? They didn't notify you?
sergeant		Hold on a second.
sergeant		Here we go. Says here you're not expected until tomorrow.
marshal		Never expect the expected Sergeant.  Secure this place.
marshal		One man here. Two more outside the front door. Everyone else on the perimeter, in teams of two.
marshal		It's a caffeine kinda night fellas. Eyes open.
sergeant		Hey Doyle!
sergeant		Go take a look at the breaker on the ventilation system, will ya?
marshal		 Gotta pee.
cat		Unbutton your shirt.
rizzo		What...?
cat		Now.
rizzo		Who the hell are you?
cat		Not room service.
cops		Drop it!!
marshal		Drop it, Joe!!!!!
marshal		I didn't do it!
cops		Drop it!!!!
cops		On the floor!
marshal		Call a bus!
marshal		Guys! I didn't do it!!!
marshal 1		Ambulance on the way!
marshal		He's gone.
sergeant		Search the place!
coroner		What the fuck?
marshal		Holy shit! Call Ross.
marshal		Agent Ross?
ross		Where is he?
marshal		At the hospital.
ross		Let's go.
cat		I shouldn't drink.
sergeant		No you shouldn't.
cat		I'm so so sorry.
sergeant		Tell it to the judge at your hearing in ten days.
cat		What's going on out there?
sergeant		Nothing. Fill out the forms and you can go.
cat		Really?
sergeant		Really. We need to get things organized. But don't worry, the judge will send you back, for sure.
cat		I probably deserve it.
ross		Same handwriting. Same flower. It's him. Let's see the location.
sergeant		You're lucky no one was hurt.
cat		I would have never forgiven myself.
reporters		Is it Rizzo? Was it an assassination? Are there any clues? Is it true a Marshal did it?
ross		No comment.
ross		You didn't lock it down?
marshal		It was after the fact. I didn't think...
ross		Do it. Now. No one in or out.
marshal		OK! That's it. No one in or out! Lock down!
ross		I want to see paper on everyone in and out of the station in the last twenty four hours.
ross		And I want the tapes from the security cameras.
emilio		Are we good?
cat		We're good.
emilio		When are you back?
cat		Day after.
emilio		I have something.
cat		The morning after OK?
emilio		Can't wait to see you Cara.
cat		Say hello to Mama.
emilio		Mama says hello back.
ross		He tilted the camera just enough so the angle would catch the guard, not who was holding him.
ross		Twenty two murders in four years all with the same M.O. The word, the flower. He's sending a message, for sure. And I'm beginning to think it's not to us.
agent 1		But we're the only ones with the information.
ross		And we're not getting anywhere with it, are we?
ross		If the message is not for us, let's make sure the one it's intended for gets it. I want you to put it out to the press. Splash it across every newspaper, every magazine. National. I want eyeballs on it coast to coast. Monitor it. Let's see if anything comes back.
marco		Mr. Richard...
marco		Been a long time.
richard		Yes it has Marco. How's the hand?
marco		Only hurts when it's humid.
richard		Should've let us relocate you to Arizona instead of New Orleans.
marco		The Boss likes it humid.
richard		There it is then.
marco		He's waiting for you.
richard		Hello Luis.
don luis		Hello Mr. Richard.
richard		I brought you the morning paper.
don luis		I've seen it.
richard		And...?
don luis		Coincidence.
richard		Coincidence? Twenty two times? A flower that only grows in one place on earth? That used to be the calling card of...what was his name? Your former partner? The one who did your wet work?
don luis		Fabio. Fabio Maria Restrepo. But I don't understand? Why come here with this?
richard		Because when we find the end of a string we like to know where it begins.
don luis		String? Now we are talking about string? I'm not a tailor.
richard		Don Luis. Let's cut to the chase here, OK? When the Agency extracted your ass from Colombia fifteen years ago, and set you up here, we let you resume your business when what we should have done was lock you up for life. In exchange, you were supposed to keep the information flowing.
don luis		And I have.
richard		Not much, and not for a very long time.
don luis		And this is what you traveled all the way down here to tell me?
richard		No. What I traveled all the way down here to tell you, is there's a limit to our patience. The CIA is not an amusement park. There are no free rides. Everyone pays their way. And you, my friend, have not.
don luis		OK OK. What would you want?
don luis		I had nothing to do with this. I swear.
richard		Then find out who does.
richard		And Don Luis, don't play the innocent with us. It won't sit well with my bosses if we find out you had anything to do with this. Have a good day.
don luis		She's talking to us.
marco		It could be anyone.
don luis		Idiot! I told you. Everyone dead. Down to the dog. 
ross		Rizzo here...
ross		The most recent, was done to keep him from talking. Alexa Milshinova...
ross		...made a career of getting intimate with big stakes gamblers out of Vegas and then taking them off and sending them to meet their maker. D'Angelo James...
ross		...tried to take over the heroin trade in Houston from...
ross		The Gemini cartel. Their crimes are self explanatory, if you can read. Now I know some of you are thinking whoever is doing this makes less work for mother. And since there's no collateral damage, why are we wasting valuable manpower and resources on the case? And since until now, there has never been a clue to go on, why go on? But with this last killing...
ross		We have one. As we go to the video tape.
ross		We can't see the assassin, but we can see...
ross		The time. 2 AM. Which means our perp was in the station at...I don't have to spell it out for you.
ross		These are the names, phone numbers and addresses of everyone with a pulse who entered that police station before two AM. Cops, criminals, clerks, janitors. Everyone. One of them is our target. I want each of you to locate the ten people in the folder you've been given. I want a complete dossier on every one of them for the last ten years of their lives. Run down every lead. Check out every story. Our killer is out there. And we're going to find him. Before he kills again.
voice		Don't move.
voice		Take off your shirt.
danny		Do I have to?
voice		Now.
voice		Turn around.
cat		Hello Danny.
danny		Hello Jennifer.
danny		You should have called.
cat		Why?
danny		I could have been out.
cat		I have a key.
danny		I could have been late.
cat		I've got nowhere to go.
danny		It's just...
cat		Just what?
danny		You show up whenever you want to...
cat		And then we have the most incredible sex.  Ever.
danny		I know. I'm just saying...
danny		Wouldn't you like to go to dinner sometime?
cat		Uh-uh. This taste good enough.
danny		Or a movie?
cat		No. They put me to sleep.
danny		So let's pop in a DVD and you can spend the night here?
cat		Would you like the key back?
danny		No. I just want to get...I don't know...
cat		Closer?
danny		Yes. Closer.
cat		Is this close enough?
danny		 ...Yes.
danny		Jen...?
emilio		Safe?
cat		On my end. You?
emilio		Safe.
cat		What do we have?
emilio		You remember the guy who was in the news for running that Ponzi scheme about a year ago?
emilio		He disappeared fifty billion dollars. The money was never recovered. Skipped out and bought himself citizenship on some shit hole of a Caribbean island that calls itself a country with no extradition laws. Lot of very pissed off people lost everything.
emilio		There's something else.
emilio		How long has this been going on?
cat		 Not long.
emilio		The paper says twenty two. All like this. Tell me why.
cat		No reason.
emilio		Since you're a kid, you don't do anything for no reason. Don't play dumb, it insults me.
cat		I've got to get ready.
emilio		It's not just you in this. It's me, Mama.
cat		Tio. You're removed. You book the work, you collect the fees...
emilio		I watch your ass. Each and every job, I vet, I double vet. For every one I book you, I turn down five, ten. I promised to keep you safe. I KEEP YOU SAFE. Cataleya. It's a full time job, no matter what you think. Those pictures...they freaked me out. OK? I didn't realize...
cat		I come to you at nine. I say I want to be a killer. What kind of kid makes a career choice like that unless they have something on their mind.  I live for the day that the blood of the son of bitch who did my parents drips in the gutter. Stop playing the innocent with me. You know this. Forever.
emilio		Sure. Of course. But the way you're playing it. They even have a name for you. The Tag killer. I would have stopped it a long time ago. Had I known about this.
cat		Why?
emilio		Because I love you.
cat		If you do, you would never have let me get involved in the first place.
cat		I love you too.
ross		OK. Let's try...organization...
ross		 Fuck...
cat		Hi guys.
cat		Hey! Hey!
cat		OK. OK. Now sit.
cat		Now let's see what good boys you can be.
cat		Top cut sirloin.
cat		Nice, huh?
cat		Red, juicy, delicious.
cat		Stay.
cat		Good boys.  Eat.
pepe		Hola Cataleya.
cat		Hola Pepe. I guess the boys gave me away.
pepe		Anyone else? The barking would only have stopped when their screaming began. You spoil them.
cat		I train them.
pepe		If that's what you want to call it.
pepe		Did you get the beans I like?
cat		Of course.
pepe		And the salsa Verde?
cat		And the salsa Verde.
pepe		Not the one in the short bottle.
cat		The long one.
pepe		I hate that other one, the chili they use sucks. Did you see your uncle?
cat		Of course.
pepe		We're going to church for Easter.
cat		As always.
pepe		And you?
cat		Not this year.
pepe		As always. You should, you know.
cat		I should do a lot of things.
pepe		You could start with that one. It would make us very happy.
cat		Maybe next year.
pepe		Cataleya. No one knows what happens tomorrow, next year is a long time away. How was your trip?
cat		Rewarding.
pepe		Passport?
cat		Your ears are better than my eyes.
pepe		You work too much. I keep telling that to Emilio. The girl should have a life while she is still young enough to enjoy it. You should take a vacation. Go some place warm. With a nice beach.
cat		Good idea.
william		GRRRAAAHHHH!!!!
william		 Hey! I pay to see more, not less.
william		That's better.
girl		Willie you are such a perv.
william		I know. Anyone hungry?
girl		Always!
william		Lunch is served.
servant		For you sir.
william		Where did this come from?
servant		It was in the post box this morning.
girl		Here fishy fishy!
girl		 Willie! They're ignoring me!
william		Put a drop of blood in there and they'll be your biggest admirers. All the way down to your stripped clean bones. And speaking of stripped...
william		Bedtime!
william		 Bring extra security in for the night.
head security		Yes sir.
william		And make sure we're shut down tight.
head security		Yes sir. Have a good night, sir.
william		I intend to.
head security		There are already guys in the garden and guys out back. I want you three upstairs, two on the roof. You three downstairs. Follow me.
william		Hello?
william		Anybody?
cat		Stop right there.
william		Who are you?
cat		Doesn't matter who I am.
william		What do you want?
cat		I want you exactly where you are.
william		ARRRGGGHHHH!
william		Whatever they paid you, I'll double it!
cat		You know the thing about sharks. You can swim with them all day and they will just ignore you, but put one drop of blood in the water and they become your biggest admirers.
william		Please. I'll give you anything you want. Don't kill me!
cat		I'm not going to kill you.  They are.
william		Please! Please!
william		Please! Help! Help!
richard		I can't believe this.
richard		Yes?
voice		Mr. Steven Richard?
richard		Who is this?
ross		FBI special agent Jack Ross. I'm lead agent on a case. A serial killer we call the tag killer.
richard		I've seen the publicity.
ross		Marks his victims with a flower. From Colombia. A Cataleya orchid. 
richard		Listen, Agent Ross, we don't give out any type of information over the phone. So what I suggest is you file a formal request with the agency for any information you might want. And I'll be more than happy to get back to you as soon as I can.
ross		Thank you.
marco		Bueno?
richard		No more bullshitting me Marco. I've got the FBI on my ass now. I want that problem taken care of. Yesterday. Do you hear me?
marco		Loud and clear.
ross		Where are we?
agent 1		We ID'd everyone who came in and out of the police station for the twenty four hours preceding the incident. The only one that we could not verify was a...
agent 1		Valarie Phillips. Picked up for drunk driving four hours before the hit on Rizzo.
ross		 A woman? Are you sure?
agent 1		It's our only lead.
ross		Let's see her booking report.
agent 2		 Well, there was a little problem. Seems she was too drunk to get a photo.
ross		But not to get prints.
agent 1		We ran the prints in the data base. No match was found.
ross		Lovely. So if there is no booking record, how did we get the name?
agent 1		A library card. The only ID she had was a library card.
ross		I don't believe this.
agent 1		There are the surveillance tapes.
agent 2		From three angles.
ross		 Well, let's see them.
ross		That's it?
agent 1		That's it.
ross		It's not a lot to go on. But put them in the data base and let's see what matches.
ross		...a woman.
marco		Hello Eduardo, que pasa?
eduardo		I have fifty bucks on this shot. That's what's que pasa.
marco		 Hey sorry. Come on.
marco		Here. For you.
eduardo		For what?
marco		First for fucking up your shot. Second, for an address. You remember Fabio? The Cataleya Killer?
eduardo		It's a long time. My memory...
marco		You went to school with his brother in law. What was his name? Emilio?
eduardo		Like I said...my memory...
marco		I have a problem. And we think Fabio's kid is behind it.
eduardo		Look Marco. I gotta be honest with you. Everyone knows you guys were playing a double game, and when the shit went down, you were the only ones who got out of it clean.
marco		So you do have a memory.
eduardo		Yeah. For rats. Now get the fuck out, and let me take my shot.
marco		OK...
marco		Fuck...
marco		You don't tell me what I want to know by the count of three, you scum sucking lowlife prick, your memory will be permanently disabled. One...two...
cat		I brought you something.
danny		That's real progress. Let's see.
danny		Wow! Just what I always wanted.
cat		You're making fun.
danny		No. No. I mean, a gift from you. Something to show me you're thinking of me as more than your boy toy.
cat		Well, there's that too.
danny		Wait.
cat		You don't want me?
danny		Of course I do. But can't we talk a little first?
cat		What would you like to talk about?
danny		Oh, I don't know. Nothing. Anything.
cat		You really want to do this?
danny		Yes, I do.
cat		 OK.
danny		So...what's new?
cat		Nothing much.
danny		Where have you been?
cat		On vacation.
danny		Really? Where?
cat		Down south.
danny		Where there are alligators?
cat		There was that one.
danny		Was it nice?
cat		It was OK.
danny		What did you do?
cat		Nothing much. A little swimming, fed the fish.
danny		OK. Now you.
cat		Now me what?
danny		Conversation. It goes two ways.
cat		OK. Want to fuck?
danny		OK. OK. I get it. You want to protect yourself. I understand. But I'm...I don't just want to be here for the sex. I know a lot of guys would think this is perfect. She comes over, we fuck like mad. She leaves. But I need a little more.
cat		Like what?
danny		Like...uh...some trust maybe.
cat		That's a hard one for me.
danny		I got that. I'm not in a hurry. And just so you know. The past? If it's too painful right now? 
cat		I'm lonely sometimes.
danny		...And?
cat		Isn't that enough?
danny		It's a good start.
danny		Now we can have sex.
danny		Let me this time.
danny		Morning.
danny		I didn't know if you like your eggs over easy or scrambled, so I made...
danny		Wait...
cat		I shouldn't have done this.
danny		Done what?
cat		Any of it.
danny		Why?
cat		Because.
danny		Can we talk about it?
cat		We already talked. I'm late.
danny		I made breakfast.
cat		I don't like eggs.
cat		Now you know something else about me.
cat		 Don't come out. Please. Don't.
cat		Sorry I'm late.
emilio		You said you would stop the writing!
emilio		Read this!
emilio		Seven people slaughtered in a Miami bar. I knew one of them. Years ago, in school.
cat		So what?
emilio		I don't like it. This is getting too close.
cat		Tio. Could be anyone. You're seeing things that aren't there.
emilio		And you are so blinded by your need for revenge that you are not seeing things that are. The handwriting is on the wall Cara. Let me read it to you. This is over. I will no longer accept jobs. I will no longer solicit jobs. You are retired.
cat		How many people did you kill in revenge for your boy's death? How many? And you're going to give me a lecture about revenge?
emilio		 Cara. It's time to get a life, before you run out of time. Here.
emilio		Maybe this will help you understand what I am telling you.
voice		Five six. Brown eyes, hazel really, dark hair, thick, shiny...
danny		Great body, killer smile.  And I think about her all day long.
ryan		Dude, you're in love.
danny		You're so smart.
ryan		Seriously. This comes from the heart. OK?  The girl comes over, strips down, rocks your world, gets dressed, asks for nothing. Leaves. The only thing she doesn't do is bring the pizza and beer. You are living my dream. And you want to go and fuck it up with love?
danny		I knew you were the perfect guy to talk about this with.
ryan		Hey come on. It's me. Since first grade. You and me?
danny		Ryan, I'm twenty eight. I met someone who I want to be with. All the time. I have nothing. A stuffed animal.  And a picture.
ryan		You have a picture?
danny		In my phone.
ryan		Give it up!
danny		It's not even a whole picture. I took it while she was asleep.
ryan		Whoa...total babe-age! When do I meet the future Mrs. Delaney?
danny		Haven't you been listening to me? I don't even know how to get in touch with her.
ryan		Dude. That is such a no brainer.
shari		You know, if you weren't my brother's best friend...
ryan		You're doing it for love Shari. Not for me. When they walk down the aisle, you can say you were the one made it happen.
danny		Maybe I shouldn't...
shari		Up to you Danny. I do it all the time. Photo goes in here. Bangs around the National Data base looking for a match. Bingo. Address, phone number, shoe size, dress size, rap sheet, anything you want to know. It's really no big deal.
danny		I just feel like, maybe, I'm invading her privacy or something.
shari		Hey guys, I haven't got all day.  Yes or no?
ryan		Of course yes.
ross		 I want a trace put on an incoming transmission!
mama		Cara. You will come home for lunch.
cat		No Mama. One thing at a time.
mama		That was such a nice surprise.
pepe		I knew it would happen.
emilio		Everyone grows up.
mama		I think she's going to be OK.
emilio		I think so.
tech		We need a common base, so let's try size...
tech		Good...now let's see...hands...
tech		Looking good. And now...
tech		Nice nose.
tech		That's your girl.
danny		Hello?
cat		It's me.
danny		Oh my god! I can't believe it! Hello you.
cat		Are you busy?
danny		No. I...no.
cat		I was just sitting here, looking out the window. And I thought...where are you?
danny		In my apartment. Looking out the window.
cat		So we're seeing the same sky.
danny		Yes. I'm so happy to hear your voice.
cat		And I'm happy to hear yours.
ross		We got her! I want SWAT there! All of them! Now!
danny		You know it's so crazy. I was just sitting here, looking at your picture, thinking "I'd wish I could call her." And you called.
cat		...What picture?
danny		I'm sorry. I know I shouldn't have. But I have nothing to remember you by, except this little stuffed...
cat		 What picture Danny???
danny		I took a picture of you while you were sleeping. With my phone.
danny		Jen. I'm sorry. Really. I didn't mean to offend you.
danny		...it's just you looked so cute. I can erase it if you want. It's not even a good picture...Jen?
cat		 Who else saw the picture?
danny		Nobody. My friend Ryan...
cat		Who else?
danny		His sister. I didn't want to..it's just...I wanted to contact you. I wanted to...
cat		 What does the sister of Ryan have to do with this?
danny		Shari, that's Ryan's sister...she works at Police headquarters...
danny		I just wanted to be...
cat		Closer. I know. Goodbye Danny.
swat 1		 Shower.
guy		Hey!
agent 1		FBI...
agent 1		No ma'am everything is under control. We just need you to stay inside. May we have a look around?
ross		She's not here. Lock the building down!
ross		Where the hell did she go?
ross		No one in or out! Lock this place down! Anyone?
agent 1		Nothing here.
agent 2		Nothing here.
agent 1		Nothing...wait...one security camera down.
agent 1		The second one is down.
ross		Where?
agent 1		The garage!
ross		 All units! Converge on the garage. Cover every exit!
ross		 Look under every car. In every trunk!!!
cat		I'm sorry...I'm sorry...I'm sorry
operator		Federal Bureau of Investigation. How may I direct your call?
cat		I'd like to speak to the agent in charge of the TAG killings.
ross		Agent Ross. Hello? Hello?
cat		This won't take long. Hands up.
cat		Turn around.
cat		Sit.
ross		Just so you know, all this? Being so smart? Covering all your bases? It's not going to matter. It's already over. The whole place is wired with web cams.
cat		You mean these?
cat		Talking about covering all your bases. Your chair is pressure wired. You move your ass one inch you don't have one anymore.
cat		I know what you're thinking. Maybe yes a bluff, maybe no. But you have to figure yes, given what you know about me.
cat		This wasn't what I had in mind for myself when I was a kid. I wanted to be on the other side of things. Like you.
ross		So what happened?
cat		He did.
cat		This is the last time I was happy. 
ross		And all this? All these clues...they weren't for us. They were for him.
cat		I didn't know how else to find him.
ross		And you figured sooner or later we would make this public.
cat		It took you a long time.
ross		You're very patient.
cat		What else do I have to be? I have no one. I did. Until this morning. I had them.
ross		You sent him a message. He sent you one back.
cat		And now I want to finish it.
ross		I can't help you.
cat		Yes you can. He's protected by your government.
ross		By a part of the government I have no way of reaching. It's CIA. I don't know why. But there's no getting through it, under it, around it, believe me, I've tried.
cat		You're going to have to try harder.
cat		I found this on your table inside. Your family, right?
cat		Brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews. Mother, father. Nice.
cat		I know this sounds harsh. But until I get what I want, you'll go to a funeral a week. And you will begin to feel what I have felt all these years.
ross		Wait...
ross		What about...?
cat		When your dinner's ready, the timer on it will have expired. Then you can get to work.
richard		You understand, I only agreed to this meeting out of professional courtesy. 
ross		Can't or won't.
richard		Same thing really.
ross		Look, let's put all our cards on the table here. I've met this woman. The killer.
richard		 Really? Where?
ross		My apartment. She trapped me. She told me if I did not get her this man.
ross		She will kill a member of my family every day until I have none.
richard		You're kidding me?
ross		Do I look like I could make something like that up?
ross		So? What should I do now?
richard		I'd go to the police. Now if you'll excuse me, I have a meeting...
ross		Ross.  It's her.
ross		Bright red.
richard		What does she think this is? Amateur hour? Tell her that glass is tempered to resist a direct hit by a fifty seven millimeter ordinance.
ross		She says she's using seven point six two steel jacketed armor piercing shells. And you have ten seconds to give her the address.
richard		How can I be sure once she has the address she won't kill me anyway?
ross		You can't. But I can assure you that if you don't give her the address you will be number twenty four on her hit parade. Trust me on this one.
richard		Eight seven six Magnolia Terrace... New Orleans.
ross		She asked you to keep this conversation strictly confidential.
richard		 With pleasure.
ross		Thank you. Because honestly I didn't know how I was going to explain you splattered all over your walls.
cat		You guys ever been to New Orleans?
cat		Good morning.
cat		I didn't know if you took sugar and cream, so I got one of each.
smith		Who are you?
cat		You designed the house at eight seven six Magnolia.
smith		You either leave immediately young lady or I am going to call the police.
cat		I would love to see the plans of this house.
marco		You will take up positions here...
marco		And here. And here. You must expect the unexpected. She is like mist under a door, like a mouse in the wall. She will never attack straight on. You will not see her, until it is too late. She is that invisible.
marco		We would prefer she be taken alive. But with a bitch like this, if you get a kill shot you take it.
don luis		Marco?
don luis		MARCO!
marco		You four! Get the armored Mercedes! We have to get Don Luis out of here!
marco		Don Luis! This way! Everyone to their positions!
thug		OK! Everyone in!
marco		Don Luis! You hide here.
marco		Wait for my call. Either she is dead, or we have her far enough away so you can make it to the garage. Take the van. The armor is so thick nothing short of an atomic bomb can penetrate it.
don luis		Marco. Thank you.
marco		 That's the first time you ever said that.
don luis		Said what?
marco		Thank you.
don luis		Don't get used to it.
marco		Down!
marco		Go!
marco		Now!
marco		Outside!
marco		Kill her!
marco		 Checking.
marco		 I think we got her.
don luis		Did you see the body?
don luis		Marco??
marco		 Stay where you are!
marco		You know what bitch? I loved killing your father. He was a coward! And you know what else? I screwed your mother behind your father's back! We all did! She couldn't get enough of it! The whore! I killed her! I killed him! You want to avenge them? The whore and the coward? That's what you come from! Come out! I'm here! Come get the bullet with your name on it, Bitch!
marco		Kill her!
don luis		Marco! Marco!
marco		You two here! That door opens...
marco		...kill anything that comes through.
marco		Shit!
marco		Giorgio?
marco		Tonino?
don luis		Marco! What the hell's going on???
marco		Hold on.
marco		I will hold here! Run! Run!
marco		Do it! Do it you bitch! Isn't this the moment you've been waiting for?
cat		Yes, it is.
don luis		 I beat you bitch! You can't kill me! I am unkillable!
don luis		Marco?
cat		It's Cataleya.
don luis		I don't understand you. You should have been dead a long time ago. You got lucky. You escaped. You were given a second chance at a life. Why did you not take it? Why did you involve yourself with this insanity?
cat		For something you can never understand. The love I had for my parents. And you killed that.
don luis		And because of that, you have ruined your whole life to try to kill me? You stupid bitch. Don't you get it? Someone like me? 
cat		Actually Don Luis...you are exactly where I want you to be.
cat		EAT!
ross		Was there anything else?
danny		I already told you everything. She would come over, we'd have amazing sex, and she would leave. It's really late, and I'm really tired, if you're not going to arrest me...
ross		We don't really have anything to charge you with.
danny		Then can I go?
ross		Just a few more questions.
danny		Can I have a cup of coffee?
ross		Sure.
danny		Hello?
danny		 Jen...I...uh...I'm so sorry. I didn't mean...are you OK?
danny		FBI headquarters. I didn't tell them anything...besides...
danny		I know.
danny		OK...What's your real name?
danny		Like the flower.
danny		Will I ever see you again?
cat		I know where to find you.
agent 1		Ross. We're picking something up off that kid's phone.
danny		If there is ever a chance. I want you to know...I could love you. If you let me.
danny		...I love you.
ross		Cataleya? Cataleya!
****Dialogues from script :Color_of_Night.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Confessions_of_a_Dangerous_Mind.txt****

performer		Why'd they do that? I wasn't done.
barris		We'll be right back with more stuff.
barris		 Fuck. Shit. Piss.
3.		CONTINUED:
bellhop		Yes sir, Mr. Barris. Everything you requested. Except I couldn't find a...  ... DH-10 directional fragmentation mine.
barris		Well, it's late.  But thank you. Thank you for trying. You are a scholar and a...
bellhop		 Thank you, sir.
barris		Why are you not looking at me like that? Do I look ugly to you?  It's the not sleeping. I'm not sleeping, see. I have a lot on my...
bellhop		 Um, another Gong Show rerun, sir?
barris		 You know what I'd do? -- And don't tell anybody -- I'd rub... I'd rub Alpo brand dog food on my dick so the dogs would stick their noses into my... dick. Guaranteed big laugh, right? That was my trick, my great contribution to the world. How wouldn't I degrade myself, I ask you.
barris		I always pay for the damn tv's, don't I?  Don't I?!
bellhop		It's -- Yes, you do, sir, and we appreciate that -- It's just that there've been complaints from some of the other guests, and Mr. Andrews, the assistant manager, requested that I --
barris		Still? Complaints? I specifically used the silencer this time! Specifically!
bellhop		Well, the people in 917 found a bullet lodged in their wall. And while we want to accommodate you -- we certainly value your patronage -- there is an issue of customer safety.
5.		CONTINUED: 
barris		Yes, of course.
bellhop		Thank you for your understanding, sir.
barris		 And some black socks!   Seven black socks, you rascule!
actual barris		It was 1981. I had holed myself up in this New York hotel. Parker Hotel. Terrified of everything. Ashamed of my life.
actual barris		When you're young, your potential is infinite. You might do anything, really. You might be great. You might be Einstein. You might be Goethe. Then you get to an age where what you might be gives way to what you have been. You weren't Einstein. You weren't anything. That's a bad moment. But I remembered something Carlyle wrote: "... there is no life of a man, faithfully recorded, but is a heroic poem of its sort, rhymed or unrhymed." I realized my salvation might be in recording my wasted life, unflinchingly. Maybe it would serve as a cautionary tale. Maybe it would help me understand why.
mother		You like the way mommy looks, Chuckie?
mother		I bet you would like to be a mommy some day, wouldn't you?
barris		Yes, mommy. Please.
mother		C'mere, you.
tuvia		I don't know who that is.
barris		Of course you don't.  Why are you waiting around anyway, listening to this cacophonous cacophony, when you could be in your own abode disrupting the lives of your own siblings?
tuvia		I don't know what anything you say means.
barris		No.    You wouldn't, would you.
tuvia		 What?
barris		Hey, Tuvia.
tuvia		 Wha-at?!
barris		You wanna lick it?
tuvia		No.    Why should I?
barris		Well, for one thing it tastes like strawberry. My sister tells me you love strawberries.
tuvia		Yeah, well... I hate strawberries.
barris		Honestly, a man's penis tastes exactly like a strawberry lollipop.
tuvia		Look, I know that's not true, so --
barris		It is true. It's weird but it's true.    I just read a research paper on it.
barris		 My first love.
tuvia		Uchh. Yech. It doesn't taste anything like strawberry, you creep.
barris		 Well, what does it taste like?
tuvia		Y'know, I'm gonna tell your mother what you just did.
barris		If you do, I'll tell your mother you made our dog lick your crack.
tuvia		I did not!
barris		 So what?
montage		 Sequence of young Barris unsuccessfully attempting to pick up girls at bars, unsuccessfully attempting to cop a feel on a date in a movie theater, standing on a front porch unsuccessfully attempting to kiss a girl good night, standing outside of a movie theater in the rain, holding an umbrella over his head and checking his watch.  BARRIS  As much as I tried, I couldn't understand my past and my present was miserable, so, at twenty-four, I decided what I needed was a future... 
barris		Next, we'll have a look at the studio where they produce the Today Show.
girlfriend		That fella Raymond in payroll is kinda cute, huh?
georgia		Cute's all well and good, Mary Ann, but what you want is a man who's goin' places. A go-getter on the management fast-track.
barris		Management trainee application, please.
14.		CONTINUED:
clerk		 Let's see, including you... about two thousand.
barris		For how many positions?
clerk		 Five.
georgia		Tell me again.
barris		Head of network sales at thirty.   Head of the entire network at forty.
georgia		And?
barris		 Dead of a heart attack by fifty with all my millions left to you.
georgia		You're wonderful. I love you, Mr. Chuck Barris, management trainee.
georgia		Baby doll!
barris		I got fired.
georgia		Fired?
barris		Fired.   F-I-R...
georgia		Fired?   What the fuck did you get fired for?!
barris		I don't know, efficiency cutback. Some bullshit... Look, it's gonna be...
georgia		Well, I'm pregnant, you fuck!
barris		Pregnant?
georgia		Yeah, pregnant!
barris		What the fuck did you get pregnant for?!
georgia		What do you mean, what the fuck did I get pregnant for? You got me fucking pregnant, you fuck!
barris		Well, fuck you.
barris		So I figured I'd skip town. I intend to be important, y'know, I can't be saddled with this.. But then I remembered something Carlyle said: "Do the duty which lies nearest thee."
bar fly		Who's Carlyle?
barris		Dear God, why do I even bother?
bar fly		Hey, fuck you, you condescending prick.
barris		Hey, fuck you.
bar fly		Hey, fuck you.
barris		Hey, fuck you.
georgia		 Looks like I was just late.
actual georgia		I woke up and he was gone. No note. No nothing. I never saw him again. Until that stupid tv show he did.
17.		CONTINUED:
actual georgia		I know what it's called, jerk.
dick clark		Chuck Barris? He spooked me. I tried to keep on his good side becuase he was sort of... spooky.
dick clark		I dunno, there was something in his eyes. Something dark, like unbridled ambition, maybe. Or an inarticulate rage.
freddie cannon		Last night I took a walk after dark/to see a place called Palisades Park/to have some fun and see what I could see/that's where the girls are
freddie cannon		I took a ride on the shoop de shoop/that girl I sat beside was awful cute/and when we stopped she was holding hands with me/my heart was flying/up like a rocket ship/down like a roller coaster/fast like a loop de loop/round like a merry go 'round...
barris		Hi.
debbie		What?
barris		Hi!
debbie		Oh.
barris		I wrote this song.
debbie		Oh.    Uh-huh.
barris		It's number three on the pop charts.
debbie		Huh.
barris		See, I believe there's a great future in television.
debbie		Uh-huh.
barris		So I'm going to take my royalties and create a pilot. A pilot is what they call a test tv show.
debbie		I work in tv.
barris		Yeah. It's gonna be a game show. I believe there's a great future in game shows.
debbie		That's good.
barris		Everyone loves game shows, right?
debbie		I don't know.
barris		Well, they do.
debbie		That's great then.
barris		I'm on my way!
penny		Hello.
barris		Hi.   Don't be alarmed    I'm with Debbie.
penny		Yeah, I figured.
barris		Um, no thanks.
penny		Thirsty?
barris		If you have a beer.
21.		CONTINUED:
penny		So how was sex with Debbie?   I've always wondered.
barris		 It was good. Fine. Thanks for asking.
penny		No problem. I just got fucked by this drummer cat. A really righteous Negro hipster.
barris		Huh.   Interesting.
penny		See, I believe in the brotherhood of man. Last week I got fucked by an Oriental.  What are you?
barris		Jew.
penny		That's what I thought. I had a Jew, but he was Sephardic. You look Ashkenazi , I'm guessing.
barris		Ashkenazi.
penny		Right. Ashkenazi... I haven't balled one of them.
barris		You're a romantic.
penny		Eh, I just don't get into all the bullshit between cats and chicks.
barris		I know what you mean.
penny		 You know what I mean?
barris		I know what you mean.
22.		CONTINUED: 
penny		Besides, you fall in love with a cat, you only get hurt. Right?
barris		Don't I know it.
penny		 We could ball if you want.     I seem to like you pretty well.
barris		Well, that would be good. But, you know, I'm kind of here with Debbie. It doesn't seem right.
penny		Yeah. That's true. I didn't think of that.  Well, I'm going to bed. Nice meeting you.
barris		What's your name?
penny		Penny.
barris		I'm Chuck.
penny		Oh, you're the one who wrote that Palisades song. I love that song.     It's such sentimental bullshit.
penny		 ... so this ape and I were looking at each other. It was, like, across time and evolution. Then he began to talk, but it was a language I didn't understand, maybe Swiss. Then he turned into Perry Como, real square and... what's wrong with you?
barris		Nothing.
penny		Just because we fucked, doesn't mean there are strings now. It's okay.
barris		Okay.
penny		Okay? I only wanted to tell you my dream is all. Nothing more complicated than that. Don't panic.
barris		I'm just used to all this dating bullshit, y'know. Now we're a couple. Now I'm obliged to give a shit what you say.
penny		Don't worry about it, I'm not into those games either. So, anyway, this monkey turns into Perry Como and I say --
barris		Holy fuck!
penny		What?
barris		Holy holy fuck!  You just gave me an idea. (starts pacing For a show! Fuck!
penny		A show about monkeys?
barris		In a way. About the craziest monkey of all: Monkius Humanius! Don't you see? About people! About sex. About romance. About the bullshit of dating!
barris		I call it The Dating Game, Mr. Goldberg. And that's what it's about. A pretty girl asks three handsome guys, who she can't see, silly questions. And based on their answers, she picks one to date. And we pay for the date. That's it! That's the show! It's got everything!
penny		No?
barris		 They bought it!
penny		Oh my God!     Oh my God! We gotta go celebrate!     Let's go roller skating!
barris		I can't, Pen. I got a date.
penny		Okay.     That's cool.    Call me after.
barris		Yeha, okay. I will.
actual barris		 Was anyone ever so young?
phoebe		Chuck...
barris		Albert's dead.
phoebe		Well, he led an amazingly long life.
barris		Still, it's hard to go on.
26.		CONTINUED:
phoebe		Y'know, you've been staring out this window for six months now.
barris		I'm trying to come up with new tv shows, if you must know. Okay? That's what I'm doing. I believe there's a real future in tv.  Look. Ideas. Okay?
phoebe		You're thirty-two years old, and you have no career and no prospects.
barris		Thanks for the status report, Phoebe. Look, I just gotta come up with the right concept. Then, boom.  Which, by the way, I've almost got.
phoebe		You're breaking mom's heart.     You know that, don't you?
barris		Somehow, and don't ask me why, Phoebe, my being born broke mom's heart.
phoebe		Who?
barris		Tuvia.   Your friend.   Tuvia.   The girl.
phoebe		Oh. No. I heard something. I think she got divorced recently or something.
barris		Oh, yeah?
older tuvia		Yes?  Well, if it isn't Strawberry-dick Barris.
barris		Hi, Tuvia.
older tuvia		What do you want?
barris		I came by to apologize.
older tuvia		Okay then.
barris		So I'm back in town. For a while.      I thought maybe you and I could --
older tuvia		Jesus, you've got to be kidding.
byrd		You're a pretty angry young fella, aren't you? Can't fight worth a damn though.
barris		Screw off, fag. Don't think I haven't seen you watching me in that bar for a week now.
byrd		Kind of a loner, I'd say. Fairly bright. A tad anti-social. Mad at the world. Can I buy you lunch?
barris		Look, there's a schoolyard half a block down. Why don't you go trolling there?
byrd		I could teach you at least thirty different ways to kill a man with a single blow, Mr. Barris.
barris		 ... and I figure if I can keep afloat until I come up with my next game show idea, then all will be copacetic.
byrd		That sounds great, Chuck. Y'know, I've never known a television producer before. I'm impressed.
barris		Yeah, yeah. So what's this money deal you were talking about?
byrd		Well, I work for a government agency, and I can always use good, enthusiastic men to help me carry out my directives.
barris		What kind of work?   What government agency?
byrd		 Problem solving work.   For the Office of Diplomatic Security.
barris		Office of what? Never heard of it.     Is that the fucking CIA or something?
byrd		Please be discreet, Mr. Barris.
barris		 Jesus, it is the fucking CIA! Hell, I'll be a spy! Where do I sign up? Are you fucking with me? You're fucking with me, aren't you?
byrd		Hardly. And you wouldn't be with the company. You'd be a contract agent. Independent. No official tie to any agency. Is that understood?
30.		CONTINUED:
barris		 Why me?
byrd		As you know, I've been watching you. For years, actually. I've only let you know about it for the last week.
barris		Jesus.
byrd		I'm happy to report you fit our profile, Mr. Barris. Are you interested in this work?
barris		Well, what's the profile?
byrd		Are you interested in this work, Mr. Barris?
barris		Yeah, sure, I wanna be a secret agent. Contract agent. Whatever. Get to fuck beautiful Eastern European women. Wear a trenchcoat. Sounds like a kick.
byrd		The work we do is very serious. It's essential in quelling the rise of communism and allowing democracy to gain its rightful foothold around the globe.
barris		Sure.    Yeah. Okay.   That's good.
31.		CONTINUED:
barris		You're training me to be a killer.
byrd		See, Chuck, I knew you were fairly bright.
barris		I can't kill people.    My future is in television.
byrd		Listen, you're thirty-two years old and you've achieved nothing. Jesus Christ was dead and alive again by thirty-three. Better get cracking.
barris		I have ideas for shows.
byrd		Oh, good. Why don't you spend another six months developing 'em while staring out the window at mommy's house next to poor dead Albert the dog.
barris		How do you know all that?
byrd		I know everything about you, Chuck. For fuck's sake, I know which hand you jerk off with.  Barris lifts his hands, tries to remember.  BYRD  It'll toughen you up.  Barris sits there staring into the blackness.  INT. CLASSROOM - DAY  Another big, frightening instructor stands before the class. Behind him is a full-sized diagram of a man which illustrates all major arteries and organs. He is demonstrating the proper way to grip a knife, then using the knife, he points to various sites on the body.  Angle on Chuck Barris. He has copied the diagram of the man in his notebook and is writing "Carotoid artery carries blood to brain. Death in seconds." He then writes: "Game show idea: Slice of Life. Interesting!!"  EXT. FIELD - DAY  Several canvas dummies are propped up in the field. Barris and other students slash at the dummies with big knives.  INT. WORKSHOP - DAY  Barris and other students are assembling rifles.  EXT. MUDDY FIELD - NIGHT  Barris and other students crawl on their bellies through mud.  INT. LABORATORY - DAY  The severe instructor, in a lab coat, is mixing chemicals.
byrd		Salvador Panagra Renda, gentlemen.
benitez		Si.   In the flesh.
byrd		What have you got for me, Manny?
benitez		 Renda leaves his apartment every day at 8:30, alone, walks east two blocks to this news kiosk, buys a paper and heads south four blocks to the plaza of the Museum Nacional to read it.
byrd		Okay. Chuck, you're here at 8:25. Dress like a tourist. Start walking north. You should pass Renda here. Stop him and ask him in bad Spanish where the museum is. Make sure he doesn't understand what you're asking.
barris		Okay.
byrd		 You'll be parked here. Brazioni, you're behind the wheel. Benitez, you're on the street leaning into the car chatting with Benitez. When Chuck stops Renda, you turn to help with the directions, stick a gun into Renda's ribs, and direct him into the back seat. Chuck, you get in first. Renda's between you and Benitez. Brazioni, whaddaya got?
brazioni		I am not an imbecile.
byrd		 Glad to hear it.       Wasn't sure.
barris		 Where are you going to be, Jim?
byrd		Poolside, Chuck.
byrd		 Hola, Chuckito. Que pasa? YOUNG BARRIS So what'd this guy Renda do anyway?
byrd		It's your job to follow directives, not question their validity.
barris		It's just...
byrd		He's a bad guy, Chuck.   He's one of the bad guys. Okay?
barris		Bad for the U.S., right, Jim? Not bad in an absolute sense, just bad for the U.S.
byrd		Don't fuckin' dance with me, Barris. Renda's bad for the Tea and Biscuit Co. He's bad for me personally. You work for me, and Renda's bad for me. You're now officially a patriotic citizen of the United States of Jim Byrd.
young barris		Look, this is --
byrd		There's no backing out now, Chuck. We've let you in on everything. So you don't play, you don't leave Mexico. Comprende?
36.		CONTINUED:
young barris		I was just --
byrd		 I like you. I really do. And you're gonna do fine tomorrow. And we're gonna become great friends. And you're gonna have a very nice little career. But you've got to grow up. There's a war on.
young barris		What war?
byrd		 That's not your concern.
barris		Excusa me, por favor, Senor.
renda		No comprende.
barris		Ra-bla-bla-mamos las minjares?
benitez		May I be of some assistance here?
brazioni		Day of the dead.
renda		Por favor. No me mates, senor.   Tengo tres bebes. Barris sucks in a deep gulp of air. His hand shakes.   He pulls out Spansh-English dictionary.
barris		Again.
renda		Que? BARRIS Repitolo. Again.
renda		No me mates. Tengo tres bebes. Barris flips through the dictionary. A church bell chimes, startling Barris. His gun goes off accidentally and the bullet hits Renda in the face, tearing most of it away. Renda falls, but is still alive. He screams out of where his mouth was. A wedding party emerges from the distant church.
38.		CONTINUED:
barris		Oh Christ.     Oh crap.
byrd		Beautiful country, isn't it?
young barris		Yeah.
byrd		You did us proud, Chuck.
barris		Yeah.
renda		No me mates. Yo tengo tres bebes.
barris		"Don't kill me. I am three babies." I am three babies? What the fuck does that mean?  Oh. "I have three babies." Oh, God.
barris		Jesus Christ, Penny. You scared the shit out of me. What are you doing here?
penny		Sorry. I just been crashing here for a few days. Waiting for you. Where you been, man, where you been?
barris		Mexico.   Just on a little vaca...
penny		You drank the water, didn't you?
barris		Yeah.
penny		You're not supposed to. Montessori's Revenge. You're not even allowed to open your mouth or your eyes when you take a shower. It's crazy. How come our water is so good and their water is poison? It's the same ocean.
barris		I don't know.
penny		It's weird, huh?  So I'm a hippy now. Look.
barris		Penny, I'm a little tired now, so...
penny		Oh!   You gotta hear this song!
barris		Penny, what did you do to my wall?
penny		 Oh, it's a guy who called a couple a days ago. Gold-Bird. Isn't it pretty?
barris		Leonard Goldberg?! You're kidding?  Hello, this is Chuck Barris returning for Leonard Goldberg.
barris		Mr. Goldberg! I'm so sorry I didn't get back to you right away. I was out of town. Vacationing in Mexico.
goldberg		Good for you. Listen, Chuck. We've ended up with a damn hole in our daytime schedule. I've been reviewing some options, and it occurred to me there might be a place here for you and your baby.
barris		My baby, Mr. Goldberg?
goldberg		The Dating Game.  That is your baby, isn't it, Chuck?
barris		Yes sir, it is.
goldberg		Are you still interested?
barris		Yes sir.   Very interested.    Sir.
goldberg		Good man. We'll need to start airing in about six weeks. Is that do-able for you and your people?
barris		My people?     Six weeks?   Sure.   Yes sir.
goldberg		Great.   Keep me posted.
penny		Damn Mexicans and their water.
blonde bachelorette		Bachelor number two, what would I like most about you?
beanpole bachelor		I am very romantic and I would send you flowers every day.
blonde bachelorette		Aww. That's sweet. Bachelor number three, what would I like most about you?
brunette bachelorette		Bachelor number one, what nationality are you?
handsome bachelor		Well, my father is Welsh and my mother is Hungarian, so I guess that makes me Well- Hung.
black bachelorette		Bachelor number three, I play the trombone. If I blew you, what would you sound like?
goldberg		Chuck, quite frankly these episodes are unairable.
barris		Look, Len, the show's spontaneous, it's unscripted. That's it's charm. I can't control what people say.
executive		Be that as it may, Mr. Barris, we can't have black men getting blow jobs on national television!
goldberg		The point isn't that he's black, Hank.
executive		 Well, I know that. That's not what I meant.
barris		Look, Len, nobody is indifferent to these shows. Right? And that's good. Show business must avoid indifference at all costs.
executive		Even when taste is involved?
barris		Taste is just a word.
executive		You don't fuck with taste, my friend!
barris		 What does that even mean?   I don't even under --
goldberg		Chuck, we cannot air this stuff. That's it. If you can't figure out how to retain your spontaneity without the contestants being lewd, we're going to have to pull the show.
barris		Hi, folks. Before we begin taping today, I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Peter Jenks of the Federal Communications Commission.
barris		 Any questions?
actual barris		Sometimes as a younger man I stretched the truth to get what I wanted. "Through all the lying days of my youth/I swayed my leaves and flowers in the sun;/Now I may whither into the truth." Yeats. You heard of him?
actual barris		Sure you have.  Anyway, my little lie worked. We aired and become a big hit. A phenomenon, really.
barris		 Terrific, Rod! Yeah, I'll get back to you on Monday. Great. Thanks. Bye.
loretta		Jesus, Barris, take a Darvon.
barris		Hey, baby.
loretta		Asshole.
barris		I know.    Sit. Talk to me.
loretta		I'm busy. We're in the middle of a bachelorette crisis out there.
barris		I just got a call from the network. Drink?
loretta		You got any weed?
barris		I wish.
loretta		Then I'll have a drink.   Bad news?
barris		The Tammy Grimes Show is being pulled from Saturday night.
loretta		 So?
barris		They want to put a prime-time version of the Dating Game on in its place.
loretta		Shit! You're kidding!     That's fucking great!
barris		But they say the day-time version's not hot enough. They want me to make it more exciting for night-time. I got forty- eight hours.
loretta		What do you have so far?
barris		Nothing. Bupkis. I mean, the show is what it is. I don't have a clue. This could be my big break, Loretta.
loretta		Yeah, I know. Don't blow it.
barris		Thank you for your help.
loretta		 Hey, I brought the ice.
byrd		Boy, didn't I teach you anything?
barris		You son of a bitch!
byrd		You're so rusty, it's embarrassing.
barris		You're a stupid fucking turd, you know that?
byrd		Can I buy you lunch?
byrd		Ah, lighten up, hombre.
barris		My fucking neck hurts.    Okay?
byrd		Poor baby. Look, I've been put in charge of a fairly large wet operation and I could use your help.
barris		Have you noticed, Jim, I've got a tv show on the air? I don't need to kill people for hire anymore.
byrd		I know you don't need to.    But you'd like to.
barris		That's insane.
byrd		Think of it as a hobby. An avocation. Something you do to relax. You can be an assassination enthusiast, a murder bug.
barris		I've got important things to think about here. I don't have time to fuck around with you.
byrd		Okay, I'll help you out with your little show. Tit for tat. That's the kinda guy I am. I've seen this Dating Game of yours, Chuck. And I have a thought.
barris		What, now you're a television producer?
byrd		Hey, I'm CIA operative John Q. Public when it comes to tv and that should make my opinion of interest to you.
barris		Let's hear it then.
byrd		Well, what do you have now? The couple gets sent to some stupid second-rate Hollywood shitcan restaurant, right? Sets you back fifty bucks? That's not too exciting a prize to us vicarious- living boobs out in TV-land.
barris		Yeah, what's your point?
byrd		Up the stakes, Chuckles. Send 'em to some exotic locale. Europe, Southeast Asia, for example.
barris		The network's not going to let me send two unmarried kids on vacation together.
byrd		 Send 'em with a chaperone. Some respectable old lady with a sewn closed snatch.
barris		 Y'know, that's not half bad.
byrd		I'm telling ya. And... And sometimes you can be the chaperone, Chuckie. Let's say we have a job for you in Austria. You, a successful tv producer, above suspicion, chaperones the young couple, and while you're there, blam! you take care of some Company business. It's the perfect cover. TV producer by day, CIA operative by night.
barris		I told you, I don't have to kill people for money anymore.
byrd		Chuck, when I said you fit our profile, very little of that had to do with you needing the money. Some of it, but very little. You liked it with Renda, Chuck. I saw it in your eyes. You liked it but you botched it. Don't you want to get really good at something, Chuck?
director		 Ready one, take one. Ready three, take three. Ready one, take one.
blonde bachelorette		Number one, can you please tell me what a girl is like who hasn't been on a date before and how you can tell she hasn't been on a date before?
director		Ready two, take two.   This guy has never been on a date.
51.		CONTINUED:
fat bachelor		Well...
barris		Jesus, she's gotta pick this guy.   This is just too good.
fat bachelor		... I'll ask her what she likes to do and --
director		Ready one, take one.   Ready two, take two.
fat bachelor		And if she doesn't know what she likes to do --
director		Ready three, take three. The only date he's ever had is with his right hand.
fat bachelor		... then I'll know she hasn't done it yet.
barris		Excuse me, is this seat taken?
woman		By you.
barris		London is wonderful this time of year, isn't it.
woman		Yes it is.
barris		 Oh. Sorry.
patricia		By you.
barris		London is wonderful this time of year, isn't it?
patricia		Especially the fog. It affords one solitude, even in a city full of people.
barris		I'm Chuck.
patricia		Yes, I gathered.
barris		And you are?
patricia		 Here you go, Chuck.
barris		At least give me a made-up name. Something for me to cry out during those dark nights of the soul.
patricia		Cry out, "Olivia!"
barris		That's Twelfth Night.
patricia		Very good, Chuck. I'm pleasantly surprised. You're not like the other murderers.
fat bachelor		I thinks he's really pretty and I want to be her boyfriend.
englishman		 Here.
barris		Do you have it?
englishman		Do you have it?
barris		Sorry.     Yeah.
englishman		Just the same.
54.		CONTINUED:
barris		Thank you.     Oh, one more thing.
actual barris		I felt bad about Ronnie. But really I did that ugly, fat, stupid kid a favor. He was ugly and fat and stupid. More life wouldn't have changed that for him. No woman would ever have loved him. That's just the brutal truth, y'know?
55.		CONTINUED:
barris		Olivia?
patricia		It's Patricia, actually.
patricia		... and so then I spent a year in Operation Chaos, inside the anti-war movement as an agent provocateur, nudging it toward violence in order to discred it. That was fun. I got to wear granny glasses.
barris		Sounds fun. So tell me, Patricia, why'd you come up here tonight?
patricia		I don't know. You're sort of cute in a homely way. And it's always lonely when that civilian you're fucking calls out the name off your fake passport.
barris		"All the information I have about myself is from forged documents."
patricia		Nabokov.
barris		Actually, I just gotta go into the bathroom and take care of something.
patricia		No, baby.    Leave the microfilm in.
byrd		Hey, buddy. This is Simon Oliver.
barris		Hey.
byrd		Everything go okay?    You don't look too good.
oliver		Mr. Barris, do not ever again jeopardize one of my missions by killing a game show contestant. Is that understood?
barris		You're welcome, pal.
oliver		Do I make myself clear?
barris		Fuck you!    They're my contestants.
oliver		Amateur.
barris		Faggot.
byrd		Chuck --
oliver		Lovely. Tell me, Mr. Barris, are you in possession of my microfilm?
barris		Yeah, I got it.
oliver		Let's have it then.
barris		It's up my ass, Oliver. Why don't you reach on up there and get it.
oliver		What do you think Patricia Watson was?
barris		Prick.
loretta		Well, if isn't the hitman.
barris		 What?
office workers		Hitman!    Hitman! Hitman!   Hitman!
loretta		I said, well, if it isn't the hitman. Just heard through the grapevine that ABC is going to pick up The Newlywed Game.
barris		You're kidding me.
loretta		Not kidding you. Day-time and prime- time.
barris		Oh, fuck, Loretta.     That's sensational!
office workers		Hitman!    Hitman! Hitman!
actual barris		The Newlywed Game was based on my theory that almost any American would sell out their spouse for a washer-drier or a lawnmower you can ride on. Such was my respect for that most holy of unions. I must've been on to something, because the show aired for thirteen years.
penny		Great wheels, man.
barris		Yeah, I decided to start treating myself right. You spend so much time denying yourself things. Life's too short.
penny		Yeah, I really gork what you're saying, man.
59.		CONTINUED:
barris		You really grok what I'm saying, man. Not gork.
penny		Oh.  Really?
penny		 Outa sight! Buy this one.
barris		I'll take it.
barris		I'll take the house.
penny		Yay!
penny		So, man, are you seeing anyone?
barris		Nobody serious. You?
penny		No.   I think we should get married.
barris		Aw, Pen, don't start --
penny		No, listen, it makes sense. You and I feel exactly the same about marriage, right? How much bullshit it is, right? And the odds of us finding someone else with the exact same view on it are small. So, it makes sense.
mother		We need a new ice box.
announcer		A brand new Amana refrigerator-freezer with automatic ice maker!
barris		Beautiful. Did you see that? How much they loved each other just then? That's what it's all about, kiddies.
barris		Oooh.    Is that true, Rick?    Where are you?
rick		Here.    No, it's not true.
barris		Any other witnesses to this alleged infraction?
barris		Rick, you're dead meat, buddy.  I sentence you to... dance for us in today's post-meeting version of "Out of Limits" featuring the musical stylings of the CBP Stompers.
rick		Aw, Chuck.
barris		Get up here, you rascule, you.
jim lange		Sometimes Chuck would just disappear for weeks. I remember once we had a conflict on the set over the right way to throw that kiss at the end of the show, y'know...  ... and Chuck was just not reachable to resolve it.
jim lange		Look, it's water under the bridge.     I'm not gonna talk about it.
barris		The word's interpret.
penny		Interpet.
barris		Interpret.
penny		Well, do you have an extra "r" then I could borrow?
barris		I'm not going to give you a letter. You're lucky I don't make you forfeit a turn.
penny		Oh.   Okay.
barris		I'll run to the store and get some more.
penny		All right.
barris		Don't cheat.
penny		You neither.
penny		Intrepet's a word, right?
barris		Intrepid.
penny		Shit fuck piss.  Okay okay okay...
barris		Pen, we should call it a night.     I'm kinda tired.
penny		You're tired.
barris		I got a date.
penny		Since when?
barris		I just met this girl.
penny		Like, just now ? You mean just now?
barris		Yeah.    Kinda.
penny		Well, that's rude.
barris		Sorry.
penny		Yeah, well, see ya...
65.		CONTINUED:
barris		Hi!
monica		Hi!
barris		Wow, this is a beautiful place you got!
roommate		Hi.
barris		Hi.
monica		Chuck, this is Mindy, one of my roommates.
barris		Hi.
monica		Have a seat.
barris		 Yes, I have.
actual barris		Yeah, I remember that religious girl, sure. Monica Something. Fleming. Oh God, she had the softest, fleeciest clam I ever experienced. It took a little more work than usual, but I got in there, baby.  It was some clam. Oh Lordy. You get old, y'know, but the taste for soft clam, it just doesn't go away. This is the great tragedy of getting old.
woman		Getting married to Alan is the best thing I've ever done. It's just so wonderful knowing that you've got someone by your side through everything for he rest of your life.
loretta		'kay, Mon.     He's off.
barris		My sweet little clamato.
monica		I'm pregnant.
barris		Is it mine?
monica		I can't believe you asked me that.
barris		I know. I'm sorry.  But you're sure, right?
monica		I hate you so much right now.
barris		Look, we'll take care of it.
monica		How?    Are you gonna marry me?
barris		 Well, no. Not at this point.
monica		I'm not murdering my baby!  I can't... do that. Please...
barris		Beautiful country, isn't it?
barris		Here we are.
68.		CONTINUED:
monica		 I can't I can't I can't I can't...
barris		It's okay.     It'll be okay.
penny		What a waste.
barris		Tell me about it. I figure over the years I must've spent close to twenty grand on these abortions: airfare, hotels, doctors, gifts.
penny		That's not what I meant.
barris		And I don't even know how many of these fetuses were mine. That's what really kills me.
actual barris		I don't really want to talk about this.
penny		So I'm assuming this means Monica is out of the picture.
barris		Yeah, I got baptized for nothing.
penny		Chuck, I was thinking... I have this plan now, now that you're free --
barris		God, you look cute today.
penny		I always look cute. Don't distract me. What was I going to say?
barris		I don't know.
penny		You do know.  Chuck, why don't we get married? We've known each other forever. We've fucked each other forever. You think I'm cute, you just said. You always come to me when you're in trouble. And you're almost forty, Chuck.
70.		CONTINUED:
barris		 I know how old I almost am! That's it. Don't ever ask me to marry you again!
penny		 I won't.
barris		I'm sorry I yelled at you today, Pen.
penny		I'm not crying because you yelled at me. This is it, isn't it? This is us.
actual barris		I almost asked Penny to marry me right then. But I didn't.
prostitute		Is that right?
loretta		Chuck?
barris		 Uh.
loretta		Rod Flexner's here.
barris		Shit piss fuck, send him in.
flexner		Chuck!    Great to see you.
barris		What's up, Rod?
flexner		Well, the thing is, Chuck, some of your shows aren't doing too well in the old ratings war. The Family Game, for one.
barris		Okay.
flexner		And How's Your Mother-in-Law is, quite frankly, in the toilet, Chuck.
flexner		Now, as you know, Dream Girl is flailing terribly.
flexner		And The Game Game has no life in it at all.
flexner		So I've been put in the unfortunate position of having to inform you that the network is canceling all four of these shows. Now don't shoot me, Chuck, I'm just the messenger.
barris		 They killed my babies. Just like that. I pushed them into the world through the birth canal of my imagination. Lovingly. Tenderly. Where's the humanity of these people?
bartender		The fucking bastards.
barris		What am I gonna do now?  Hey there, can I buy you a drink?
large man		What are you blind, asshole?   This lady's with me.
barris		 Fuck you!
large man		Please.
barris		 Get out of here, you pussy faggot piece of shit dog-shit shithead.
penny		Hey, I was just in the --
barris		She's --
penny		This is our house, man. Our house! It's one thing to go elsewhere for your pussy needs. But this is our house!
barris		This is not our house, it's my house.
penny		It's our house! I found it with you. I decorated it for you! I spent six months sitting on that fucking couch she's fucking you on, fucking waiting for the fucking plumbers to come! God, you are such an asshole!
woman		I should go. This doesn't feel right.
penny		 Wanna see a stupid girl vomit?
penny		Why were you with that girl in our living room?
barris		It's not our living room, Pen.
penny		That's your defense?   You know what it feels like to see you with someone else? In any living room.
barris		You know who I am, Penny.    I don't force you to hang around.
penny		 You don't force me?   Fuck. So you're saying you have no interest in this, one way or the other?
barris		No, I'm not saying that.
penny		Well, then, what are you saying, Chuck? Do you want me around or not? Do you even like me?
barris		Of course I like you.
penny		How much?
barris		What?
penny		I need to know how much you like me.
barris		 I don't even know what that means, "how much?" How can I rate a person in that way? That's ridiculous.
penny		You could if you felt it. If you felt it, it would be easy to rate me. You could spread your arms as wide as they would go and say, "This much, Penny."
barris		Everything's complicated, Pen.    Nothing's black and white like that.
penny		Do you want me around or not? If you don't, just say so, so I know. Okay?
barris		I love you, Pen, in my way. Maybe not in that crazy, head-over-heels thing, but what is that, anyway? Romantic love. Isn't that just an illusion?
penny		 But you just said you love me, right?
barris		Jesus, how do you know these things?
byrd		We even know what she actually thought it tasted like.
barris		Really? I could never find that out. What did she think?
byrd		It's a "need to know", my friend.   So tell me, what can I do you for?
barris		I could really use an assignment, Jim. To straighten my head.
byrd		I got something for your head.
jim lange		... and we're the sending the two of you for three days and three nights to beautiful... West Berlin!
barris		Treesh.
patricia		Leibchen.  Other side of the wall.   We don't like him very much.
barris		 Bye-bye, Colbert, bye-bye.
patricia		You'll work with a kraut named Keeler. He's been trailing Colbert for a month now. Knows the routine. Keeler's a drunk, so you stay sober and take charge.
barris		 Done and done. See you after?
patricia		Prove how much you love me, baby.   Kill for me. Then I'm all yours.
barris		What you writing, Sig?
keeler		I am keeping track of all the goings on on this street.
79.		CONTINUED:
barris		Hey, Keeler, a bird just flew by.
keeler		Yah.   I know how to do my job.
keeler		 Under the seat, please.
barris		 Who is it?
barris		Good morning, Mrs. Reynolds.
housekeeper		 Another rough night, huh?
barris		 The human psyche is a wondrous thing.
housekeeper		 We don't need this now, do we?    Why don't we just put this away?
barris		Mrs. Reynolds, may I rest my head on your bosom for a little while?
housekeeper		Oh, that doesn't really seem like a very good idea, Mr. Barris.
barris		I'm sorry. You're right. I just... I'm just without... comfort of any sort, and I... please forgive me.
housekeeper		 No harm done.
barris		 Thank you. Thank you.      Thank you.   You are a scholar and...
housekeeper		It's fine, sir.
barris		Mrs. Reynolds, what do you suppose God thinks of someone like me?
housekeeper		God?
barris		Yes, God.
housekeeper		Well, Mr. Barris, your television shows have brought laughter and joy to millions of people. That's a very important thing, I think, in these difficult times. I would imagine God likes you very much.
barris		Thank you, that's very kind.  So... I should get back to...
housekeeper		Yes, of course, sir. Don't mind me.
82.		CONTINUED:
barris		I'm really, really fucked.
picard		Get in.
barris		What?       Who the hell are you?
picard		No time.      Get in or die.
picard		Merde. KGB. They know who you are, Monsieur Barris. It is their intention to kill you very much in East Berlin.
barris		Merde!   MERDE! PICARD Not to worry, my friend.
barris		What the hell is that?
picard		Your ride, Monsieur Barris.
barris		No fucking way.
picard		It's quite reliable and easy to operate. It will get you over the wall. Or you can stay here. In the German Democratic Republic. I will arrange for you to get a good factory job. No, you must fly, like Daedalus before you, to the freedom of the west.
barris		Christ.   What about you?
picard		They do not catch me, monsieur. This is my talent, to get away always. In guerre. In amour. This is my talent, and perhaps this is my curse.
byrd		 So, did you have a nice flight?
barris		Fuck you, Jim. It was terrifying.
byrd		Seems the KGB knew exactly what you were up to. You were there to kill Colbert, they were there to kill you. I'm thinking we got a mole. So much hate in the world, Chuck.
barris		Am I in danger still?
byrd		Jesus, yes. KGB didn't go out of business since yesterday, so far as I know. You're fucked, Chuck. But our main concern should be: if they know who you are, they know who I am.
barris		Fuck off.     What do we do?
byrd		Bow out. Lay low. That's what I'm gonna do. You're lucky you have another career to immerse yourself in.
barris		Thank you.     Thanks.   That was great.
executive woman		I don't know, Chuck. It's looking bleak.
barris		There's gotta be somebody in America with some talent. Ted Mack got bookings every week.
barris		 Thank you. Thank you. We'll be in touch. That was wonderful.
barris		We kill 'em before they're through. As soon as it gets unbearable, we kill 'em. Dead.
executive woman		For God's sake, what are you talking about?
barris		Celebrity judges ring a bell to end the act... to kill 'em. And when you kill something, it stops. This I know to be true.
host		Why'd you do that, Jamie? This is someone's grandmother. She was really trying.
jamie farr		This is The Gong Show, not the Van Cliburn eliminations.
host		This is a human being with aspirations. BARRIS  Oh, fuck me. This guy sucks.     He's bringing everyone down.
executive woman		None of the hosts are getting it, Chuck. But we have a thought.
barris		What?
executive woman		You host.
barris		I don't want to be on tv.
executive woman		Listen, we can't sit through anymore of these test shows. Do it, Chuck, or we advise the network to pull it.
barris		 Ucchhh.
barris		Welcome to The Gong Show. Here's an esoteric act if there ever was one. Ephemeral. It's an ephemeral act. 
88.		CONTINUED: BARRIS  One that should get us our Emmy. Do we have an Emmy? We don't? Well this should get us one. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen... Big Nose!
big nose		Why?   Why?     Why?
barris		I don't know. I don't understand.
89.		CONTINUED:
executive woman		You can't quit.
barris		I can't quit? But I get panicky, Louise, in front of all those people.
executive woman		You lack confidence, that's all.
barris		I lack confidence?
executive woman		But we'll take care of that. We'll get you some confidence powder. Leave that to us.
barris		Confidence powder?
executive woman		Nose candy, Chuck. Blow. Snow.        Flake.
barris		Blow, snow, flake?
executive		Coke.
barris		Oh.   Coke.     Okay.   Does that work?
barris		Ladies and gentlemen, oh, this act is amazing, your gonna love this act. I'm telling ya. All the way from Pacoima... David Pincus!
gene gene		Oh yeah, a real Jekyll and Hyde. Sometimes nice as you please. Give you the shirt off his back. Other times he'd rant like a crazy man. I remember once he screamed at me that I didn't know anything about dancing. "Nijinsky," he yelled, "now there was a dancer!"
black comedian		Today I had a bad day today...
91.		CONTINUED: BLACK COMEDIAN  That barracuda took an egg, put it in a pot of water, and burned the water. We had to rush that to the hospital.
jamie farr		Chuck used to love to discuss philosophy. I think he was very saddened that the public saw him as this sort of spastic moron. I remember at the time I was reading Wittgenstein. And Chuck was just thrilled to have someone else in addition to Rex Reed to talk about that stuff with.
barris		Look, Jamie, you know as well as I that language does not exist without an outward criteria.
patricia		 Chuck...
barris		Can we pick up tomorrow?
jamie farr		Yeah. But consider my thinking on elementary propositions. I'm serious.
barris		Will do.   Love ya.
jamie farr		Right back at ya, amigo.
patricia		I'm concerned about you. I think you need to get back into the life. Our sex was always amazing after you killed. Truth is you're not that great after your discussions with Jamie Farr.
barris		 Jamie, I can't talk anymore tonight --
barris		Sure. Dinner sounds good. There's a place called La Scala. See you there at eight.
93.		CONTINUED: 
patricia		 Dinner sounds good with whom?
barris		Keeler.
keeler		A very fancy place.
barris		Only the best for my friend.
keeler		The friendships one develops during wartime are remarkably strong.
barris		Yes.
keeler		So how is the business of television?
barris		Well, it's hit and miss. I've got a new show called "Operation Entertainment" which I believe is going to kill. It's sort of a Bob Hope visiting the troops thing, but it's weekly and...
94.		CONTINUED:
keeler		Why do you do what you do, Chuck?
barris		Well, I like to think that I bring joy and laughter to millions of people. I'm not saying that my shows are as good as they could be. Yet. But --
keeler		Why do you kill?
barris		Oh.
keeler		During the second world war, I had the pleasure of killing. Yes, pleasure. I found it exhilirating. Afterwards, I could find nothing else to fill me so much with life. So I became what I am today. I wanted the exhiliration again... of death.
waiter		Are you gentlemen ready to order?
keeler		I'll have the shrimp scampi and a green salad.
waiter		And for you, sir.
keeler		Um, Just give me a steak.    Rare.
waiter		Thank you.
keeler		"Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy whole might. Work while it is called, for the night cometh wherein no man can work."
barris		That's Carlyle!
keeler		Yes.
barris		It's amazing you should quote him.   He's my hero.
keeler		I read in a book recently that killing your first man is like making love to your first woman. Every smell, every nuance, you remember with a special allure, as if the acts had occured outside civilization, outside time. And when the allure is gone, you are condemned.
barris		Condemned?
keeler		I am condemned to live the rest of my life outside civilization. You will be too, my good friend.
actual barris		The next day I heard Keeler offed himself.
penny		When you called, I wasn't gonna come.
barris		I'm glad you did, Pen.
penny		I said to myself, enough.      Enough of this jerk already. Enough.
barris		I could see how you would feel that way.
penny		But I've come upon something interesting through my delvings into human psychology. It's called TA, Transactual Analysis.
barris		Transactional Analysis.
penny		Now see, by correcting me you're responding as "Parent" to my "Child."  "Here's the proper way to say this word, Penny." But that's okay. As long as we both understand that's what you're doing. Y'know, I'm okay, you're okay. So what's wrong, Chuck? Are you okay?
barris		A guy I knew killed himself last night.
penny		My God. Everyone you know kills themselves. Or tries. Who is it this time?
barris		You don't know him.   A stagehand.
penny		Why'd he do it?
barris		He didn't like his work anymore.
penny		Is being a stagehand really bad or something?
barris		 Yeah, it's pretty bad.
patricia		You were supposed to meet me at The Palm two hours ago.
barris		Oh fuck, I forgot.
penny		Who is this?
patricia		I do not get stood up.   Do you understand?
barris		Um, Penny, this is Patricia.  How did you find me?
patricia		Are you serious? That's what I do for a living.
penny		Who's Patricia? What does she mean, that's what she does for a living?
patricia		You're dead in my book, Strawberry-dick.
penny		Strawberry dick?   What's that?
patricia		There is no second chance. Get it?  Oh, by the by, Byrd's dead.
penny		And... and okay... I'm only gonna give you one more chance, man. That's it. Get it?
barris		 Who sent you?! Who the fuck sent you?!
teenage boy		Nobody, man. We just waited for you to leave after the show. We just think the show is cool. We just think you're cool.
teenage girl		Please don't kill us.
unknown comic		Hey, Chuck.
barris		Take it off.
unknown comic		Huh?
barris		The fucking bag. Take it off.
99.		CONTINUED:
barris		Here he is, the Prince of Puns, the Wizard of Whoopee... The Unknown Comic!
unknown comic		Chuckie Baby, Chuckie Baby, Chuckie Baby...
barris		What?   What do you want?
unknown comic		What's the difference between toilet paper and a shower curtain?
barris		I don't know.
unknown comic		 Here's the guy!
barris		Get out of here.
unknown comic		 You're fucking crazy, man.
loretta		Phone call from someone named Tuvia.
barris		Who?!
loretta		Tuvia?
barris		I'll take it! Don't hang up!
barris		Yes.
barris		Of course I do.
101.		CONTINUED:
guy		Hey, Chuck, I got a talent.
guy		Just take a second.
tuvia		You look great.
102.		CONTINUED: BARRIS  I could've had what had so long eluded me. But now she was old and I wasn't interested.
barris		What?
telephone voice		Paul Picard is dead.
picard		 Fly, Daedalus, fly!
103.		CONTINUED:
barris		This is the moment we've been waiting for...
ed asner		And the winner is Taxi!
starlet		I don't see why your shows are never nominated.
actual barris		But as I stood there, I realized, I couldn't kill Jim Brooks, the man who was responsible for such good stuff: Mary Tyler Moore, Rhoda, Cindy, Phyllis, episodes of My Friend Tony. I loved those shows as much as anybody in America.
barris		Hey, congratulations, Jim.
barris		Chuck Barris. The Gong Show.
barris		Once again you deserve it. Your shows are the greatest. You bring so much... quality to the medium. JAMES L.BROOKS Thank you.     I appreciate that.    I really do
barris		Yeah.
barris		 Great. I'm just heading --
barris		Uh-huh.
106.		CONTINUED:
pretty woman		Hi.
barris		Hi.
pretty woman		I thought it was you.
barris		 It's me.
pretty woman		I'm glad to meet you because I wanted to tell you that I've seen The Gong Show and I think you are the most insidious and despicable force in entertainment today.
barris		Well --
pretty woman		How dare you subject the rest of the world to your loathsome view of humanity.
barris		I don't think it's that loathsome.
pretty woman		What is it then? To mock some poor, lonely people who just crave a little attention in their lives. To destroy them. So everybody's not brilliantly talented. They're still people. They deserve respect and compassion. I mean, who the hell are you? What the fuck have you ever done that elevates you above the pathetic masses? Oh, I forgot, you created The Dating Game. Wow, right up there with the Sistine Chapel. I guess that's what gives you the right to...
barris		Excuse me, I've got to --
fat bachelor		I only want to be loved.
barris		That's all I fucking wanted!
barris		No, I'm...
barris		Please, I'm not feeling well.
barris		You can stop by the office to audition tomorrow.
barris		Yeah, all right. Go ahead.
109.		CONTINUED: 
actual barris		That was it. I just disappeared. The network had to put The Gong Show into reruns. It was 1981. I holed myself up in this hotel in New York. Parker Hotel.
barris		Who Am I?
barris		Fuck.   Shit. Piss.
oliver		Barris.
barris		How'd you know where I was?
oliver		Chuck, Chuck, Chuck, don't be an orangutan. We always know where you are. We always know what you're doing. By the by, I'd think twice before I'd attempt to get that tripe you're writing published. And there's a typo on page --
barris		Look, what do you want, Oliver? I don't work for you anymore. I have things to...
oliver		I'd like you to come back for one last assignment, Chuck.
barris		No.     Now get... Good-bye
oliver		I think you might be interested when I tell you it's the mole who fingered your friends Jim Byrd and Paul Picard... and Seigfried Keeler.
barris		Keeler committed suicide.
oliver		Yes, of course he did. He threw himself from a twentieth floor window after he strangled himself to death with an electrical cord.
barris		 I'm not interested, Oliver.
oliver		As long as the mole's alive, you don't have a chance in hell of remaining so. Besides, killing is in your blood, old man. You fit the profile.
barris		That fucking profile again! What's the fuck is it?! What the fuck do you bastards know about me, that I don't?!
oliver		Indeed.   Where to begin.   First, let go of me.
barris		That's not true.
oliver		Oh, and your father the dentist? Not really your father. Your biological father was a man named Edmund James Windsor. A serial killer. A fact your mother didn't know when she had an affair with him in 1930. If you want to look him up, he was also known as the Tarrytown Troll, because he had been described by witnesses as short and ugly. Windsor died in the electrical chair at Ossining in 1939. We believed your self- loathing tendencies coupled with that extra Y chromosome and whatever else you inherited from your father would serve us well.
barris		You're lying.
oliver		I'm trying to think what more I can tell you. I'm sure there's more. But you have me at a disadvantage here, Barris. I don't have your files in front of me.
barris		Just leave me the hell alone!
oliver		Your mother always loved the game shows, and you so wanted to please her. We never expected the game show business to work out for you. But that it did, turned out to be in our favor. I guess your need to be a good daughter drove you more than we anticipated.
barris		Huh?     What?
barris		Jesus, how'd you find me? Am I listed in some guidebook or something?
penny		You sent me your last letter on hotel stationary.
barris		Oh. Well, it's great to see you, Pen. You look beautiful.
penny		I don't really. But I appreciate the lie. I know how you hate lying.  Boy, this place is scary looking.
barris		Yeah.  The human psyche.
penny		I came to take you back to California with me. It's a lonely state without you.
barris		I don't know, Redhead.
penny		I can't wait forever for you to ask me to marry you, you know. Well, apparently I can. But I really don't want to. Chuck.
barris		Pen.
penny		 I love you so much. You don't understand. I don't even know why. You're such a schmuck.
barris		You don't know the half of it.
penny		You're not gonna marry me, are you?
barris		I don't know if I can.
patricia		I can't believe you finally left your two- hundred-dollar-a-night cave to see me. I'm honored.
barris		Y'know, I got a visit this morning from Penny. She's wanted to marry me forever. But she doesn't know who I am, what I've, what I'm capable of. 
114.		CONTINUED: BARRIS  And she can't ever know. So what does she really love? A lie. And I started thinking, Treesh, you are the only woman in the world who truly knows me. I know I've screwed you over in the past, and I'm really sorry. I just want you to know that you're the one I want to be with. I love you, Treesh.
barris		I hate myself for how I've lived, Treesh.
patricia		Neitzsche said, "Whoever despises oneself still respects oneself as one who despises."
barris		I never thought of that. Jesus, I can't even despise myself with any insight.
patricia		Insane asylums are filled with people who think they're Jesus or Satan. Very few have delusions of being the guy down the block who works at an insurance company. Wonder what that means.
barris		Y'know, I wanted to be a writer once. I wanted to write something that someday some lesser person would quote. But I never did. I'm the lesser person, Treesh. I never said anything meaningful that wasn't said by somebody else first. I am disposable. I disposed of people and I am disposable.  You look cold.
patricia		Chuck, what's gotten into you? You're actually acting like a gentleman.
barris		I suppose you still won't tell me where you're staying.
patricia		No.   But I'll show you.
patricia		Drink?
barris		Sure.    Bourbon.
patricia		I've been thinking a lot about you lately, Chuck.
barris		Yeah?
patricia		I've missed you.
barris		You could've fooled me.
patricia		Well, I've mellowed.
barris		That sounds right.
patricia		To life.
barris		To life.
barris		It's done and I'm done.   Agreed?
oliver		Agreed.   But if you get antsy... and you will.
barris		Hey, Redhead?
117.		CONTINUED: JUSTICE OF THE PEACE  You all know Chuck Barris: the creator of The Dating Game, The Newlywed Game, The Family Game...
barris		Drive, Danny! Now!
penny		What's going on?
barris		 Pen, I have something to confess.
penny		Okay.
118.		CONTINUED:
barris		 You know me as the creator of The Dating Game, The Newlywed Game, The Family Game, The Game Game, How's Your Mother-in-law,
penny		Operation Entertainment.
barris		Yeah, Operation Entertainment. The Rah- Rah Show, Gong Show, The Dollar-Ninety- Eight Beauty Show, The Ra-Rah Show...
penny		You said that already.
barris		Okay.  Okay, but what you don't know is that I've brutally murdered thirty-three people for the CIA.
actual barris		Y'know, I came up with a new game show idea recently. It's called The Old Game. You got three old guys with loaded guns on stage They look back at their lives, see who they were, what they accomplished, how close they came to realizing their dreams. The winner is the one who doesn't blow his brains out. He gets a refrigerator.
****Dialogues from script :Confidence.txt****

2.		CONTINUED: BUTCH That's not a bad place to start. CUT TO: EXT . - BACK ALLEY- NIGHT Title: Three Weeks Ago... The same alley... The door of a building bursts open as LIONEL DOLBY , dressed in a cheap suit, stumbles out breathing heavy. The dim light of a bare bulb glares off the sweat on his forehead. A moment later, Jake emerges from the same door carrying a large black revolver. JAKE I lost my head. I'm... Sorry.    I don't know what happened. LIONEL Y-y-you fucking shot him!   That's what happened! JAKE I had to! That motherfucker was about to welch! You saw what he was doing, right? You heard him! Lionel starts shaking his head spastically. LIONEL I can't be here! You understand?     I can' t-- JAKE Listen to me! It went to shit.     It happens sometimes. In the distance, A POLICE SIREN WAILS, growing louder. LIONEL Oh Jesus! JAKE LISTEN to me! We don't have much time. We can still get through this but you have to keep your head and trust me! Jake takes a tentative step forward.     Lionel sees a BLOOD STAIN on Jake's shirt and recoils. The SIREN GROWS LOUDER, Jake turning his head towards it.
3.		CONTINUED: LIONEL What-- What do we do? JAKE Help me. Jake waves Lionel back through the door they came out of. CUT TO: INT. - THE EUCLID BAR A dive furnished with a few mismatched chairs and a bar. A single overweight PATRON sits at a corner table with face buried in his hands as he WHIMPERS. Jake and, Lionel Dolby pass him as they emerge from a back hallway. MILES, late 20's, wipes blood off the bar. Placed at the edge of the bar are two briefcases, both open, both filled with neat stacks of blood splattered money. A DEAD GUY lies face down on the floor in a pool of blood. Jake grabs the Dead Guy's legs as Lionel watches in disbelief. JAKE Come on.    Grab his arms. Lionel stands frozen.       Jake, drops the dead guy's legs with a THUD. JAKE Lionel... He's dead. Yeah, maybe you didn't pull the trigger, but you were standing right there and watched me do it. Help me. Grab his arms. The POLICE SIRENS grow LOUDER. MILES Tick-tock... JAKE If you wanna help, then help.    If not, shut up. MILES Your mess. JAKE Then shut up. MILES My place.
4.		CONTINUED: Miles lets out a little chuckle; it's just enough to set Jake off again. Jake pulls the gun and points it at Miles. MILES Oh please... Miles non-chalantly pulls a sawed off shot gun frown under the bar. MILES  I didn't see nothing. And I swear if you let me go now, I won't say- JAKE Relax, porkchop. The POLICE SIRENS sound like they're right outside. LIONEL I can't be here! Jake cocks his gun, never taking his stare off Miles. JAKE Then go. Lionel looks at the briefcases of bloodied money. LIONEL What about... The money? JAKE What about this situation makes you think I can answer that question right now? Lionel again looks at the briefcases; then the shotgun leveled at Jake; then at the direction of the POLICE SIRENS... He runs for the door without a second thought. CUT T0:
6.		CONTINUED: ROTTOVICH Guy looked like he was trying not to shit himself.  Nice. DEAD GUY What took so fucking long? The Dead Guy stirs-- GORDO, late 20's, dressed in a blood soaked suit stands up; wiping blood off his face. DEAD GUY/GORDO I've been lying in this shit like half the night. MILES You guys were late.   We had to go to a Mexican stand-off. JAKE And you know I hate guns. Jake tosses the revolver on the bar. SOBOZINSKI We were fighting crime. MILES Keeping the city streets safe for drug dealers and pedophiles everywhere. Jake starts taking    the money out of the briefcases. Gordo strips out of the    jacket and shirt, revealing a THIN WHITE VEST. A wire runs     from a battery pack on his belt, up the center of the    vest, ending at a scorched, bloody, explosive squib. Gordo drops the vest along with a plastic bag containing fake blood. A nasty bruise on his chest marks the spot where the squib was. GORDO Shit. JAKE I told you, use less powder. GORDO But you won't get that splatter effect. Jake removes the blood stained bills from the top of the pile.
7.		CONTINUED: JAKE Then these go into your cut. Big Al moves over to the bar. BIG AL Hey, Jake... When am I gonna get to play the Inside? JAKE Gordo plays the inside.   You're the Shill. BIG AL Yeah, but come on... All I get to do is cry and get insulted. JAKE What are you talking about? You should get a fucking Academy Award for the Shill work you do.  We got it down cold, Al. You don't want to jinx it by changing something up, do you? BIG AL I' m gonna go get eggrolls. Anyone want eggrolls? Al slaps Jake on the back and exits. Jake catches Gordo hawking over his shoulder. JAKE What?   I can feel you looking at me. GORDO That's a lot of cash. He came up with it pretty quick. JAKE Probably some investment banker or convertible-bonds-broker-dickhead. Did you see how fast he ran out of here? It's done. He's not coming back. GORDO I guess. I gotta drop a dime.    Did anybody mess up the hoop? MILES It's clean. Gordo disappears dawn the back hallway.
8.		CONTINUED: Jake rubber bands two small wads of cash and hands them to Rottovich and Sobozinski. JAKE Ten percent. SOBOZINSKI You guys got sack, I'll give you that much. JAKE Confidence.     It's just confidence. Sobozinski and Rottovich head for the door with their newly padded pockets. ROTTOVICH  Feels a little light, Jake.    Next time we're in for twenty. MILES Twenty?   My ass! JAKE What are you talking about?    Ten's standard. ROTTOVICH Yeah Well, Sobo's kid needs braces. SOBOZINSKI Do you have any idea what those monks charge for that medieval torture? JAKE We got a good thing going here. You want to blow it over an overbite? ROTTOVICH Don't get me wrong, Jake. I like you boys. You guys are the steadiest business in town. But what can I say? Twenty percent's still better than what we give to any of the other criminals. JAKE All the shit we pulled with you and you're trying to shake us down? You guys got sack. ROTTOVICH Was that a threat? Did I hear a threat?
9.		CONTINUED: ROTTOVICH  It's what makes us run. And despite what they say, it can buy you love. CALL GIRL Are you ready for me, Ralph? She lets the overcoat fall open, revealing her lack of clothing. CUT TO: INT.- PRADA STORE- NIGHT Gordo stands in front of a mirror trying on a new suit. The sales people fawn over him.
10.		CONTINUED: JAKE  Oops. She throws Jake a smile he can't but help return. They stand for a second facing each other before she's whisked away by an OLDER MAN, dressed in an expensive suit.
11.		CONTINUED: Jake's smile fades as he watches her saunter into the bar, but not before she throws him another glance over her shoulder. Jake continues on into... CUT TO: INT.- NEIGHBORHOOD BAR- CONTINUOUS A semi-crowded bar.    Not hip and trendy like "Wax." Jake finds an empty stool at the end of the bar and orders a drink. He takes a second to look around at the cliques of people talking, laughing, having a good time before he pulls a newspaper out his coat pocket. Jake takes a pen from the bar and opens to the crossword section. JAKE  Oops.
12.		CONTINUED: The realization makes Jake smile. Then a FLAPPING SOUND spins him around to see a PIGEON, flapping up against the inside of a partially opened window. Visibly upset by the bird, Jake moves towards the window and pushes it wide, allowing the bird to escape. JAKE Dumb fucking luck. Jake stares out the window after the bird. CUT T0: INT.- DOLBY'S APARTMENT- NIGHT A nicer apartment than Jake's. Lionel Dolby, the Mark from the Euclid rushes around, haphazardly throwing things into a suitcase. There's a KNOCK on the door that stops Lionel dead in his tracks. Another KNOCK.       Lionel still frozen. The door flies open with a      BOOM. In the doorway, we see HARLIN, an older mountain      of a man dressed in a plain black suit. Behind him is       LUPUS  You better get over to Al's.    Now.
13.		CONTINUED: Miles hangs up before Jake can answer. CUT TO: INT.- BIG AL'S- DAY Jake stand's with Miles in the sparse living room. Big AI's body sits reclining on a Lazy Boy chair, eyes bulging open. An open carton of food rests in his lap. A feast of take-out Chinese surrounds him. The TV blares an old episode of "The Little Rascals." There's a singed, neat bullet hole in his forehead. MILES I was supposed to meet him for breakfast. He likes that new IHOP they just opened, you know... He likes to order that thing. The Rutti-Tutti-Fresh and Fruity thing they got. JAKE Miles... MILES Sorry. I'm just... Look what they did to him. Right in the middle of his egg- foo-young. Big Al stares up at them with those bulging, vacant eyes, his mouth hanging open. Jake reaches down and grabs the remote control and turns the TV off. JAKE  Big Al used to send money to his Father, some Vietnam Vet slowly losing his mind in a VA hospital in Cleveland. Al was like that. That's why Al never played the Inside. CUT TO: INT.- DINER- DAY Gordo enters and takes a seat in the back booth with Jake and Miles. GORDO Seems Lionel Dolby came down with a sudden case of drowning last night. They just pulled him out of the East River. JAKE Well, this is just fucking great...
14.		CONTINUED: GORDO It gets worse. Now I know     why he was such a good rope. X mean,     cash.... That much and we never had    to put him on the "Send?" Turns out     this ducking Moe was an accountant for    the King Pin. Gordo throws Jake a hard look, letting the news sink in. Jake can only slump back into the booth. MILES Who's that? GORDO The cash we fleeced off of him was collection money. He was supposed to take that money and give it to the King earlier yesterday like he does every Thursday. `Cept this time, he figured he could make a little something for himself off us and still get the King's money back before any body says "boo." MILES What's a King Pin? Gordo looks to Jake, but can see that he's still processing the information. GORDO Currently, the King Pin is a very large- type pole stuck up our asses. MTLES Mob? GORDO Independant. Same shit, just independant. They call him the King Pin because he looks like that guy from the comic book... Big. Fat. Bald. MILES So what?   We hide, right? GORDO  What are you? New? Let me tell you how good this guy is. Last night, Al calls this bookie to settle up. Apparently he's been ducking him for like a month. So the guy asks him where he's got all this money all of a sudden, right? What does Al do?
15.		CONTINUED: GORDO  Big Al gets whacked mid-egg foo young. The whole thing took about two and a half hours. That's how good he is. MILES We sure Big Al threw him to us? GORDO Come on... All three of them turn their attention out the window. They watch the bustle of people walking past wondering if any one of them is looking back. JAKE A bird flew into my house last night. Gordo and Miles exchange a look, unsure of how to respond.
16.		CONTINUED: JAKE  The Euclid was our place. CUT TO:
18.		CONTINUED: JAKE Meet me at my place later. MILES How do you know the King's going to let you walk? JAKE I'm getting a ride. Jake picks up the phone and dials another number. CUT TO: EXT.- THE BULLDOG GYM- NIGHT A neon sign in the shape of a boxing glove tells you what kind of gym it is. A police car comes to a stop in front. Rottovich and Sobozinski in the front seats. Jake gets out of the back. SOBOZINSKI The King, huh? Nice going. JAKE I try. ROTTOVICH Don't dick around too long. And if he stabs you or shoots you or causes any other form of profuse bleeding, call a cab because you are not getting back in this car! Jake nods and approaches the door where Harlin and Lupus stand vigil. Lupus wears another loud sweatsuit. HARLIN We appreciate your punctuality.   Mr. King is expecting you. Jake takes a step towards the door, but is pushed up against The wall by Lupus who begins to roughly pat Jake down. HARLIN Lupus! LUPUS What? You said pat him down, I'm pattin' him down. Harlin shakes his head and pushes Lupus out of the way.
19.		CONTINUED: HARLIN It only takes a moment to be polite. My apologies, Mr. Vig. If you wouldn't mind? Jake steps back and raises his arms. JAKE You the one that did it?   You the one that got Al? HARLIN Mr. King prefers to farm out for that kind of work.  Uh... Which one's the King Pin? HARLIN He's in the back taking a steam. Jake nods and let's out a silent sigh of relief. CUT TO: INT.- STEAM BATH- CONTINUOUS A huge room filled with steam. Harlin and Lupus stand by the door as Jake cautiously steps in. NEW AGE MUSIC is being played-- Could be Yanni. Sitting in a lounge chair, wearing a white terry cloth robe is THE KING PIN. His large body is less fat than just big, constructed of circles and topped off with the baldest head you've ever seen. A MANICURIST sits next to the King Pin working on his nails.
20.		CONTINUED: KING PIN Ow!   Watch the pinkie! This isn't so bad.     Jake almost has to stifle a laugh. KING PIN 
21.		CONTINUED: KING PIN  Fucking grifters! I love it! You got balls, I'll give you that much.
22.		CONTINUED: JAKE No.   Just confidence. The King Pin stands up and moves over to Jake. KING PIN I' ll be honest with you, Kid. A grifter comes in here with a fifteen hundred dollar D-K-fucking-N-Y suit, cooler than an Eskimo in winter and tells me he wants to grift for me? First thing I have to ask myself is, is he playing for me or is he just plain playing me? You tried it once. JAKE We got caught. So you know it won't happen again. With surprising speed, the King Pin grabs Jake by the neck. KING PIN I know it won't happen because you're going to feel like a Prom Queen who just got gang fucked by the wrestling team! A few pained CHOKES from Jake as his knees buckle. HARLIN Mr. Vig arrived with an escort.   NYPD. The King loosens his grip and let's Jake fall. KING PIN Grifters... Always working  an angle. Alright. I can see you got   some vision. But I give you the Mark. I   tell you the who and you give me the  how. Lupus go with him. Lupus snaps to attention. LUPUS What? KING PIN Consider him part of your crew. Consider him a part of me. Jake begins to speak, but is silenced with a look. KING PIN He goes.   Now let me see your hands.
23.		CONTINUED: The King picks up the nail file again. JAKE Why? KING PIN You ask a lot of questions.   Come on.  Jake shakes his head slowly. JAKE I'm not saying anything. Besides, you're one to talk. You're the one who's got me on my knees in a dark alley.
24.		CONTINUED: BUTCH And these cops? What do they get? CUT TO: INT. - SQUAD CAR- NIGHT Rottovich and Sobozinski sit staked out in front of a small cigar/magazine store. JAKE  Just a tip. SOBOZINSKI What are we gonna do with this stuff anyway? Heroin? What the hell do you do with heroin? ROTTOVICH You sell it. SOBOZINSKI To who? ROTTOVICH Don't be an idiot. How hard do you think it is to sell one drug dealer's drugs to another drug dealer? If Vig's right, we might be looking at a hundred, maybe a hundred fifty grand... SOBOZINSKI You think this is a good idea?    We never did this kinda shit before. ROTTOVICH What's he going to do? File a missing drugs report? If it works out, this guy might be good for a few more turns. A hooded figure turns a corner onto the street, heading for the Cigar Shop. He wears a knapsack slung over his shoulders. SOBOZINSKI Hope so. Those fucking orthodontist bills are killing me. One fifty every time they tighten those bitches up. One fifty! It's not even covered. ROTTOVICH It's cosmetic. They don't cover cosmetic.
25.		CONTINUED: ROTTOVICH  Whoa, whoa... There he is. We HEAR the SOUNDS OF CAR DOORS OPENING, then SLAMMING SHUT. Moonan puts down the mic and hits "STOP" on a microcassette recorder. MOONAN Confessions of a poor brusher. Moonan takes a second to remove his gum, then checks his teeth in the rearview mirror. CUT TO: EXT.- STREET/BROOKLYN- SAME Rottovich and Sobozinski walk quickly down the street. Ahead of them, the hooded figure approaches, his hands buried in his pockets, a knapsack slung over his shoulder. As he gets closer, we see that he's just a KID of about ten or eleven. Rottovich reaches over and pulls off the Kid's hood. SOBOZINSKI You know who we are? KID The heat.
26.		CONTINUED: Rottovich can't help smiling. ROTTOVICH That's right. We're the heat.  Butch and Jake... BUTCH Keeping the Fix happy.
27.		CONTINUED: JAKE You never know when you can use a crooked cop. BUTCH Keep going. I want to know how you got Lionel Dolby. JAKE So you want to know how to play the Big Con. BUTCH In this case, you might say I want to know how not to play the Big Con. Butch shoves the gun a little harder into Jake's head. CUT TO: INT.- BAR- NIGHT A trendy bar, dimly lit and packed. We PAN along the hip crowd and STOP on Jake speaking with a SLICK GUY dressed in black Armani. JAKE  There's that saying-- Show me an honest man and I'll show you a natural born liar. There's always that little bit of bad no matter how much good. It's that little itch on the back of you neck. You may not even know it's there, but it is. The Fat Texan MORPHS into a WALL STREET-type suit, who remains stoic as Jake reaches over for another round of drinks.
28.		CONTINUED: JAKE  I tell you the "Tale"-- It's the story of how we're going to make easy money. No one gets hurt. And here's the guy who's going to help. That's when you meet the Insideman.
29.		CONTINUED: Gordo approaches, dressed in a suit and looking slightly anxious. Introductions are made. JAKE  Then someone does... BLAM!!! CUT TO:
31.		CONTINUED: Dolby eyes the briefcases of money. DOLBY What about... The money? JAKE  Butch eases the gun off Jake's head. BUTCH So how'd you get caught?
32.		CONTINUED: JAKE Suits used to say that in any con, sooner or later someone's going to start asking the right questions. Usually, it takes a little longer. CUT TO: INT.- JAKE'S APARPMENT--NIGHT Empty except for Gordo, Miles, Jake and Lupus, dressed in another of his trademark loud sweatsuits. JAKE We're working for the King. MILES  Wait a second... Who's the mope? LUPUS I'm the King's eyes and ears.   Just in case you decide to get cute. MILES So we gotta short con our way out of a hundred and fifty grand? That could only take like, a year. JAKE No. Big con. One rag. One rag and we get out from under all this. But we need another Shill. MILES What do we need another Shill for? JAKE Breasts. CUT TO: INT . - WAX--NIGHT A crowded night... LILY, the attractive blonde from earlier, flirts with a well dressed, OLDER MAN who has his hand firmly planted on her ass. She squeezes his hand and gives him a quick peck on the cheek before walking away. She takes a look at the man's wallet she just lifted before putting it in her bag. From out of nowhere, Jake bumps into her.
33.		CONTINUED: JAKE  Jake.
36.		CONTINUED:
37.		CONTINUED: JAKE  There's a story going around that he helped fund the Contras back in the eighties. Gillette and his crew head through a large glass revolving door to... CUT TO: EXT.- CITY BANK OF MANHATTAN- DAY A busy mid-day New York sidewalk.       Gillette heads towards a waiting Town Car. JAKE Most of his money's clean. A lot of it isn't. The best part is that we know exactly where it is. As Gillette and his crew disappear into the car, we PAN up to see the front of the building which has a large sign reading, "City Bank of Manhattan; A Gillette Family Company." CUT TO: INT.- THE EUCLID-- RESUMING Jake looks over the crew, who are less than convinced. GORDO How much we going after? JAKE Two million. Miles lets out a whistle.
38.		CONTINUED: GORDO We only owe the King a hundred and fifty. JAKE We get fifty percent.   And we get clear of the King. Jake looks over at Lupus for confirmation. LUPUS That's worth it right there. You ask me, I don't think you can do it. MILES I'm with Jack LaLane.   That guy's untouchable. JAKE That's why we don't go after him directly. CUT TO: INT.- CITY BANK OF MANHATTAN/LOBBY Empty. The marble floor spotless, the dark oak teller windows vacant, a row of desks. JAKE  We pay better.
39.		CONTINUED: An envelope stuffed with cash MATERIALIZES on the desk next to Ashby. CUT TO: EXT . -- CAYMEN ISLANDS--DAY Crystal clear water gently rolls onto a white beach. JAKE  It's bank policy not to release this money in cash because it's under a corporate account.
40.		CONTINUED: The Teller turns to a computer printer and removes a check. Jake signs a few documents and places the check into his pocket. CUT TO: EXT.- CAYMEN ISLANDS/STREET--DAY Lined with shops and stores, but it's as empty as the bank. Not even a car: Jake strides out of the Grand Caymen's Bank and walks across the street to another building with a sign reading "BANK OF THE GRAND CAYMENS." CUT TO: INT.- BANK OF THE GRAND CAYMENS- DAY Again, empty... Jake strides in and approaches the deserted teller counter. ANOTHER TELLER MATERIALIZES and greets him with a smile. JAKE  That's why you need someone on the inside at Customs. Jake approaches and slides the suitcase towards him. The Officer slides it back to Jake, revealing another envelope stuffed with cash under it.
41.		CONTINUED: The Officer literally looks the other way as he pockets the envelope and waves Jake through the gate. CUT TO: EXT.- JFK AIRPORT- DAY Jake exits the terminal. Outside, the street is empty, not a traveler, an airlines rep, a luggage handler or a cab. Jake waits at an empty cross walk until the "walk" signal is given. JAKE  This might just be me, but that is hands down, the dumbest fucking idea I've ever heard. GORDO People have tried this before, Jake. It's never worked. Teddy Fraiser and his crew went on vacation in Chicago for it. Last year, Mumps got pinched in L.A. JAKE It never worked before because A, they didn't flush the bank enough; B, their corporate papers were for shit; C, they didn't have someone on the inside with Customs. MILES Yeah, or D, it's a dumb fucking idea... JAKE Then what do you want to do, Miles? Run?
42.		CONTINUED: MILES We never had a problem with that before. JAKE Yeah, well we never had this kind of problem before. MILES What are you talking about? Yes we have. And we would have been beautiful about it. We would've had a bucket of chicken delivered to the King with a nice kiss my ass card attached to it. Then we woulda moved on `til the next local putz caught on. JAKE We're getting a little old for running. MILES Yeah, well we're still a little young for Albany State Prison. Are you pissed about Al? I'm pissed too, but I' m not like "twenty-five to life" pissed. JAKE I'm getting clear of this. If you're not going to do it for the fucking principle, do it for the money. Gordo? GORDO Yeah... Whatever, Jake. JAKE No, not "whatever." You're either in or you' re out. A silence falls over everyone. LILY I'm in. Her eyes stay on Jake as a smile grows across her face. CUT TO: EXT.- PAY PHONE- DAY Jake dials a number... JAKE  I agreed with Miles. It was, hands down, a dumb fucking idea.
43.		CONTINUED: JAKE  Yeah, it's Jake. How'd that tip work out? CUT TO:
44.		CONTINUED: Moonan holds up crime scene photos of Big Al's body. MOONAN  Belated, but it's the thought, right? Oh, this prick's got a sense of humor. But, then again you guys probably know him better than I do. In fact, I've only met the guy once. But now, now I have you. The next best thing. His partners. His "Fix." SOBOZINSKI What do you want?
45.		CONTINUED: MOONAN You help me catch him. Whatever he's into next, I want you to be into. And what you're into, I'm into. If it all goes well, those two guys from IAD will never have to hear this tape. I'll clear you guys of anything you've ever done with Vig under the guise of some cross-departmental investigation. This prick's been on the wish list for so long, you'll probably get gold shields out of it. SOBOZINSKI What do you get out of it? MOONAN Peace of mind. SOBOZINSKI That's it? MOONAN Not everyone's on the take, Walter. ROTTOVICH If you Feds are so hot for him, why don't we just bring him in right now? MOONAN I want him for something big and to do that, we have to catch him in the act. SOBOZINSKI This guy must have been a real pain in your dick. MOONAN Literally. It's not a bad deal, gentleman. I get peace of mind. You get Detective Sheilds. But this is the best part, Walter... Walter, your daughter will get to keep her braces and have that winning smile. Capice? Rottovich and Sobozinski remain silent. MOONAN Good. One more thing... You gotta give up the booty. I can't have you guys running around with heroin. FREEZE FRAME ON MOONAN'S SMILING FACE.
46.		CONTINUED: JAKE  A serious look comes across Jake's face-- Hate.       Butch eases back with the gun for a second. JAKE He's just as crooked as the next guy. You'd think he'd have more important things to do with tax payer dollars. BUTCH Cue the fucking violins.   Come on... It's getting cold. CUT TO: INT. - THE KIEV DINER- DAY Gordo, Miles, Jake and Lily next to him, all crammed into a booth. MILES Am I the only one who feels like we can't make a move with this guy on us? LILY We should ditch him. JAKE Just watch every thing you say around him. Every word, every move... It all goes back to the King Pin. Lupus exits the restroom, heading back towards the booth. GORDO How's the hoop, superstar?   Clean? LUPUS What is it with you and bathrooms? MILES He doesn't like using a bathroom unless he knows it's clean. LILY Manly.
47.		CONTINUED: GORDO You laugh now, but wait until you need a clean place to powder. This is New York city, Sister. Public sanitation does not run very high on the city hall agenda. You know what you can get off a toilet or doorknob? Let's do the list... Hepatitis, influenza, the flesh eating disease- JAKE Here's what's going to happen. Gordo, we need to find a guy in Gillette's bank. Miles, we need papers, corporate, insurance... MILES Is it all fugasi? JAKE No, the corporate papers have to be legit. But you gotta score an I.D. A clean one. Talk to Suits. I gotta get us a Banker. LILY What about Customs? JAKE I'll worry about Customs. LILY Hey, I' m not just along for the ride, so I don't want to hear any bullshit later about a smaller cut. JAKE Take a deep breath. You sound like you just broke up with your boyfriend or something. Jake rolls his eyes as Lily glares at him. CUT TO: INT.- BULLDOG GYM- DAY Boxers at the bags, a jumping rope, etc... Jake and Lily stand in front of the King Pin, who's dressed in shorts and a t-shirt. He wears boxing gloves and headgear. Lupus and Harlin stand vigil by the sparring ring. KING PIN How much?
48.		CONTINUED: JAKE I think two million. KING PIN What do you need from me? Permission? Go! If you can fleece him for two million, then do it, Kid. JAKE I need you to stake me. KING PIN Stake you? JAKE I need you to stake me. I can't do it without it. It's just a couple hundred grand. Taken out of our cut when we're done. King Pin eyes Jake suspiciously for a second. KING PIN That's more than you already owe me. What happens if you fuck this up? JAKE Nothing ventured, nothing gained. KING PIN Hey Skippy? Do I have the word "chump" tattooed on my forehead? LILY Mr . King, I think--- JAKE 
49.		CONTINUED: JAKE And I gotta tell you, for a guy who spends all his time in a gym, you could be in better shape. A few of the BOXERS training around stop and turn.          The King Pin lowers a glare at Jake. KING PIN Take off your shirt. Jake looks behind him to see Harlin looming. JAKE Excuse me? KING PIN I said take off your fucking shirt. A few more BOXERS stop and turn. Jake notices he's being watched. The King Pin takes a step towards Jake... JAKE Fine. You want me to take it off, I'll take it off. Jake unbuttons his shirt and stands in front of the King Pin, arms crossed. It's getting weird. KING PIN Look at you, you skinny prick. JAKE You're not going to bust out baby oil and start rubbing me down or anything, are you? The King smiles and begins to take off his shirt.       Harlin and Lupus share an uncomfortable glance. The King strips down to the waist and reveals an incredibly large, incredibly round stomach which he SLAPS loudly. KING PIN Come here.   Feel this. JAKE No thanks.   I'm good. KING PIN Come here! The King grabs Jake's hand and puts it on his stomach. It just got weirder. Now the whole gym has stopped, everyone focused on Jake and the King Pin.
50.		CONTINUED: LILY You guys are freaking me out. KING PIN Shut up. Feel that? That's solid muscle. Not an ounce of fat. Go ahead. Punch it. JAKE I am not going-- The King starts to get that look again. Jake winds up and punches the King in the stomach.           He shakes his fist in pain. KING PIN Come on.    Harder. JAKE I think I just broke my hand. KING PIN Harder.    Remember, I killed your buddy. Jake's demeanor changes as he winds up and hits the King as hard as he can. The King just smiles. KING PIN  All muscle. The King then hits Jake back in the gut with surprising speed. Jake falls to his knees, but the King's right there. With one arm he pulls Jake up and starts to pummel him in the stomach with an unbridled visciousness. Jake spits up blood as the King hurls him face first into the ring. KING PIN Maybe it's true. Maybe you can't cheat an honest man. Me? I'm about as dishonest as they come and that's the truth. But if you even think about trying to con me they'll find fucking pieces of you in each of the five boroughs. Pieces of you, pieces of her, pieces of your whole crew. Can't be any mare honest than that. I'll stake you, but that's three hundred fifty you're in the hole and consider the juice running. Now go make me proud. Harlin and Lupus lift Jake up.        Lily looks at Jake with a pained expression.
51.		CONTINUED: JAKE You get all that? Everyone in the gym goes back to their workouts. CUT TO: EXT. - BACK ALLEY  Guy like me, with people like that... I'll tell you what you're looking for without even meeting you. It's like a personal ad you wear over your head. Jake watches as she hails a cab. A MAN, also hailing a cab goes for the same one. Michelle gets into a screaming match with the man. FREEZE FRAME ON MICHELLE--- A CGI SIGN appears over her head "Single, volatile, confrontational woman seeks "man" for economic security and house chores." JAKE No. CUT TO:
54.		CONTINUED: JAKE Now we had the con and the mark.    We needed to look the part... They're greeted by FRANKIE SUITS, an ancient rake-thin man, perfectly coiffed and exceptionally dressed. JAKE  So I see. In from Long Island?     You fellas take a look around. GORDO Hey Suits? You got anything in like a eleven or twelve ounce Super 100 worsted? Miles gives him a look like he's speaking latin. Jake and Lily follow Suits into... CUT TO:
55.		CONTINUED: SUITS Corporate papers with the New York State seal, insurance documents with a proof of bonding and some fugasi financial records. There's also the I.D. you asked for. Corporate papers with the New York State seal, insurance documents with a proof of bonding and some fugasi financial records. There's also the I.D. you asked for. Jake takes out the papers and gives them the once over. He then puts an envelope thick with cash on the desk. JAKE Aces, Suits. SUITS Not easy   pickin's. Papers like these speak to   larger issues. Sorry about Alfonse.  You into   something big? JAKE Pretty much. SUITS In over your head? JAKE Pretty much.     Suits eyes Lily. SUITS Can I speak to you in confidence? JAKE Huh?   Oh.   She's alright. Suits gives Lily another suspicious look. SUITS Try and keep up... You ask for      the Advantage Goods, then you guys      come in looking to be Bean Traps. So I       gotta think you're either working the      mace or playing the Jug Mob. JAKE A little bit of both. Lily watches in utter confusion. SUITS Hey, I been on the ramp all my life, so I got no problem with the way you help yourself, Jake.
56.		CONTINUED: SUITS  I saw you go up from the Knecker, working that Grind, learning the Barnard's Law and I thought, "the kid's a prodigy.'" But I know that if you're using these goods... So then I figure, what's worth that? You're either looking for a little history or a retirement fund. Who's the Mark? JAKE Can't say. SUITS Then who's the Banker? JAKE The King. A dead look comes over Suits. SUITS The King? Jake, you play the heavy rackets like that... They put the lug on for nothing at all. JAKE I can handle it. SUITS I don't doubt your talent. You looking for that place in the hall of fame? JAKE It's not history. SUITS So what do you want? JAKE I want to get out from under all this for good. And I want to fuck them all doing it. SUITS Then I gotta say, in my opinion, you can't get what you want. Jake considers those words for a moment. JAKE Yes I can. Suits guages the seriousness in Jake's face and nods. The he gently rests his hands on the papers.
57.		CONTINUED: SUITS Still time. JAKE Can't do it Suits.      I can't lay down for this one. SUITS Okay. Here's the thing... You fall flat, you might not get anything short of stiffed. Then it's Blue River Land for everybody. Papers like these are dangerous because papers tend to multiply, then they start to take shape. Usually it's the shape of an arrow. I hate to do it, but after this, I gotta give you the blowoff. We Jake, Jake? Suits holds out his hand.         Jake takes it. JAKE We're Jake. They shake, knowing it'll be the last time. CUT TO: INT.- GARMENT DISTRICT/WAREHOUSE- CONTINUOUS We follow Lily and Jake out of Suit's office.           Lily can see that it's thrown Jake a bit. LILY What the hell's his problem? JAKE Don't worry about it. LILY It's just that I left my asshole decoder ring at home, so how do I know not to worry? Jake stops and turns to her, looking her up and down. JAKE You need to get a haircut. LILY What? JAKE And some new clothes. LILY Why?
58.		CONTINUED: JAKE We're going to rope this banker tomorrow and you gotta at least look classy, if not be classy. You gotta do this thing and I don't even know if you can. LILY You're just going to have to trust me. JAKE I don't trust anyone. LILY Then show me how. CUT TO: INT. - TIFFANY'S - NIGHT Jake and Lily enter the store. Jake takes a quick moment to case the place-- A few scattered CUSTOMERS, some being helped by SALESPEOPLE. All the Customers look like the uppercrust crowd you'd expect at Tiffany's. JAKE  This is about confidence. Your confidence and their confidence. You get their confidence by giving them yours. Jake leaves Lily by the front counter as he starts a slow turn around the store. He casually pretends to be browsing as he moves next to MR. LEWIS, an older, distinguished looking gentleman, being helped by a SALEGIRL, who is scribbling on an order form. SALESGIRL Let me read this back. One silver Cattier watch, engraved-- "To Carolyn, the Attorney at Law. Happy Graduation, Counselor. Love Mom and Dad." MR. LEWIS Right. SALESGIRL One bracelet, engraved "To Abby.   Happy 25th Anniversary, Love Tom."
59.		CONTINUED: MR. LEWIS Perfect. SALESGIRL I' ll just go put this in, Mr. Lewis. The Salesgirl takes the order form and walks away. A change comes over Jake. It's subtle-- Posture, facial expressions, a slight tug of an accent-- but it's there. JAKE Mr. Lewis? Mr. Lewis turns and looks at Jake. There's no real hint of recognition, but Jake's smiling up at him like an old friend. JAKE It is you.   Hello! Jake extends his hand. MR. LEWIS Sorry, I-- JAKE Jake. Jake Pearson. I go to lawschool with your daughter. Carolyn. We met once or twice. Mr. Lewis seems to search for second, then extends his hand more in an effort not to appear rude. MR. LEWIS Of course.   Jake. Nice to see you. JAKE Well, it certainly is a coincidence. Here of all places! How is Mrs. Lewis? MR. LEWIS Great.   Thank you. The Salesgirl returns. JAKE Excuse me? I believe you're holding something far me under Pearson. SALESGIRL Do you have a ticket?
60.		CONTINUED: JAKE You   know, this is kind of embarassing, but   my wallet was stolen yesterday and I'm   afraid the ticket was in it. But the   name's Pearson. MR. LEWIS While you're back there, could you make sure that Carolyn is spelled with a "y"? The Salesgirl nods and disappears again. MR. LEWIS  What brings you down from Boston, Jake? Taking advantage of the long weekend? JAKE My wife and I are just taking a little vacation. Behind his back, Jake discreetly waves Lily over. MR. LEWTS Carolyn's down this weekend too. Lily approaches. When she does, Jake pulls her close and gives her a loving kiss on the lips. It throws Lily for a second. LILY Uh... Everything okay? JAKE Honey, this is Mr. Lewis. Carolyn Lewis's father. Mr. Lewis, this is my wife, Lily. Lily and Mr. Lewis exchange handshakes. JAKE I'm sorry, honey.    I'm almost done. Jake taps Lily on the back with the hand wrapped around her waist. LILY It's okay.    I'll be looking for earrings. Jake gives Lily another kiss before she leaves. MR. LEWIS Attractive girl.
61.		CONTINUED: JAKE Thank you.    Actually, it's our first anniversary   this weekend. She thinks I'm here to   pick up something for my mother, but   it's actually a gift for her. Think    I've fooled her? MR. LEWIS Take it from me, you never do. But congratulations. Nice to be married, isn't it? JAKE Very much so. Jake smiles ear to ear, like the happy newlywed he's pretending to be. The Salesgirl returns. SALESGIRL We have Carolyn with a "y". I'm sorry, there's nothing under Pearson. If we had an invoice number-- Jake's smile dissolves as he grows a little anxious. JAKE I told you. My wallet was stolen. Please... Check again. Jake takes a nervous look over at Lily, who is drying on earrings with another Salesperson. MR. LEWIS Good luck.    Congratulations again. He and Jake shake hands. JAKE Thank you, sir. You know, I hope this isn't too much of an inconvenience, but if Carolyn is coming down for the weekend, perhaps I could give you something for her? It's a check. We split the cost on a few books and I haven't had the chance to pay her back yet. Could you..? MR. LEWIS Sure. Jake pulls out a checkbook and pen. JAKE  That'd be a great help.
62.		CONTINUED: The Salesgirl returns. SALESGIRL I'm sorry.   Nothing under Pearson. JAKE You're sure? This is... Just a complete disaster. SALESGIRL What was it? Jake quickley scans the jewelry in the glass case. JAKE A ring for my wife. Alot like that one. In fact, it was that one. SALESGIRL That's no problem. We have those in stock. JAKE Thank you. Sorry, I'm just a little anxious to give it to her. You take out of state checks? SALESGIRL With identification. Jake stops writing on the check and locks up. JAKE I understand that, but I had my wallet stolen last night. Is there any way..? SALESGIRL I'm sorry. Jake's anxious look comes back. JAKE I know it's policy, but...  The thing is... It's our first anniversary and we're only in town for the weekend. It's a very, very special night for my wife and I. This ring is my gift to her and I think she's going to really love it. I can give you phone numbers to call for people who'll vouch. I can send you I.D. later...
63.		CONTINUED: SALESGIRL  This is embarrassing. MR. LEWIS Jake? Jake looks up and rips the check out from his book. JAKE I'm sorry, sir. Thank you very much for doing this. And please tell Carolyn hello for me. Jake seems to be lost. Mr. Lewis looks over at Lily, who gives him a friendly smile, then back to Jake. MR. LEWIS Why don't you let me put the ring on the card and you can write me a check in return? Unseen to Mr. Lewis, one corner of Jake's lip goes up in a grin. CUT TO: EXT.- TIFFANY'S/SIDEWALK--NIGHT Jake and Lily exit the store.     Jake hands Lily the trademark colored box. JAKE Happy anniversary. Lily takes the box and shakes her head, impressed. Jake Looks up to see Mr. Lewis watching them as he tries to hail a cab. Jake's demeanor quickly changes as he puts on a big smile. JAKE Smile. You just got a present from the man of your dreams. Lily puts on a big smile while opening the box. JAKE Now we gotta give him a strong finish.
64.		CONTINUED: Jake pulls Lily closer and looks into her eyes. She leans in and they kiss-- A deep, slow kiss that makes people have to walk around them. Mr. Lewis sees them and smiles to himself as he gets into a cab. Jake and Lily are still kissing as the cab pulls away. Lily finally breaks the kiss--- Slowly. LILY He's gone. JAKE Uh-huh. LILY I gotta go get a haircut. JAKE Uh-huh. Jake watches as Lily walks away. She looks back at Jake once before disappearing around a corner. CUT TO: INT.- SIXTEENTH PRECINT- DAY Moonan sits on a desk, ear to a phone. JAKE  It was all in play. Everything... MOONAN It's Moonan... I'm in New York. Listen, I got Vig. He's here and I'm this close... Look, I understand that, but I'm telling you this time... Obsessive is a big word to use... Goddamn it, Lou! I'm telling you, this is it. Yeah... I figured you'd feel that way. So here's the deal... Call Kylie over at the Bureau. Tell him I got something that might interest him. A guy they call the King Pin. I think there may be a corruption case brewing here, too... That's right. So even if I don't get Vig, you'll still have something to show. Rottovich and Sobozinski enter.
65.		CONTINUED: MOONAN  Butch takes out two cigarettes and lights both, sticking one in Jake's mouth. JAKE Thanks. Did you know you shouldn't light three cigarettes with a match?
66.		CONTINUED: JAKE  Redheads. JAKE FUCK! Gordo, Lupus and Miles look up at Lily. GORDO Oh shit.
67.		CONTINUED: Lily stands at the door watching Jake freak out in disbelief. FREEZE FRAME ON LILY and her new red hair. JAKE  But the fucking Grand Poo-Bah of all jinxes? A bird in your house... Lily takes her jacket off revealing a delicate blouse, decorated with a design of flowers and a BIRD. FREEZE FRAME ON LILY'S BIRD BLOUSE. CUT TO:
69.		CONTINUED: LILY So much for that good feeling, huh? Silence.   Jake can feel the eyes on him. JAKE Anybody says a word I swear to God... Jake takes off after her. CUT TO: EXT. - BACK ALLEY- NIGHT  Butch cracks a big smile. BUTCH She had you tempting fate. JAKE My father used to play the same fucking lotto numbers with these other guys in the pharmacy. The same numbers everyday for sixteen years. One day he gets pissed off, tells them he's out and plays his own numbers. They hit the Lucky Seven for one point two million. LILY steps out from behind Butch. LILY Guess he passed on that unlucky- asshole gene. Lily looks down at Jake and the gun pointed at his head. There's not even a hint of sympathy. LILY You should have trusted me Jake. CUT TO: INT.- THE BULL AND THE BEAR PUB- NIGHT Jake turns and looks at the crew, Miles, Gordo, Lupus and Lily behind him. Grant Ashby sits alone at the crowded bar, doing his crossword puzzle. Jake a smile and saunters over to the bar. GORDO She up for this?
70.		CONTINUED: JAKE She's up for it. ANGLE ON ASHBY AT THE BAR Ashby sits finishing a drink. Snippets of CONVERSATION and LAUGHTER from the cliques around him catch his attention, but he remains alone. BLONDE  I wasn't sure if you'd make it. BLONDE Oh, I didn't know you... Here.    Sorry. Lily takes the barstool back. LILY No problem. The blonde woman leaves as Lily sits down next to Ashby. LILY Thanks for playing along.    I just have to sit for a while. ASHBY Tough day?
71.		CONTINUED: LILY Brutal day. They say the streets are lined with money down here, but I guess you have to know the secret handshake. What are you drinking? ASHBY Uh, Maker's Mark.      Rocks. Lily signals the BARTENDER for two more drinks. ASHBY My name's Grant. Grant Ashby. LILY Oh god. I'm overbearing and rude. Lily. Lily Finn. They shake, Ashby's demeanor brightening again. ASHBY So, what do you do? LILY It's more like what aren't I doing.        My partners and I are trying to secure start up capital for a small tech company. We tried the venture capitalist route in the Valley, but then again who hasn't up there. ASHBY Silicon Valley? LILY That's right. So, brainiacs that we are, we thought we'd be innovative and relocate east. Try our luck with a straight corporate loan out here. The drinks arrive.       Lily hands the bartender a twenty. ASHBY I can--- LILY On me.     For the seat.   Cheers. She flashes a trademark smile as they CLINK glasses. LILY So we've been meeting with banks all day. It's amazing how many ways they can say "no" without ever using the word.
72.		CONTINUED: ASHBY Well, typically, corporate loans are relatively simple matters, but you do need to demonstrate a capacity for gross fund recovery. Lily arches an eyebrow at Ashby. LILY Don't tell me you started a tech firm here before us. ASHBY No, no.   Nothing like that.   I work in a bank. LILY  She got one leg out from under him. Now we had to lean.
74.		CONTINUED: GORDO That's that Gillette guy, right?  Here's where a little research comes in handy. Corporate banks give out VP titles like calendars. It's a small lie, but now we're sure he's playing. RESUME ACTION JAKE Maybe you can help us understand what's so hard about getting a corporate loan. ASHBY Well, typically speaking, they're not. As long as you can demonstrate--
75.		CONTINUED: JAKE A capacity for gross fund recovery. Yeah, we got that part. ASHBY That's right. And tech firms... They 'tend to scare people off. JAKE They scare people off because most people lack vision. Vision and balls. Present company excluded of course. ASHBY Banks need to know how they're going to get their money back. JAKE We know exactly how we're going to make The money back. There in lies the Catch-22 ASHBY I don't follow. An uncomfortable silence falls. GORDO Jake... LILY It's alright. Grant's one of the good guys. She throws Ashby a flirty smile. LUPUS Yeah.   He's our boy. Lupus casually punches Ashby in the arm. It's meant to be a friendly tap, but it's hard enough to jerk Ashby's head to the side. Ashby lets out an uncomfortable LAUGH as he rubs his arm. JAKE  Have you ever heard of a company called Big.Com? ASHBY Big.Com.   That Internet thing.
76.		CONTINUED: JAKE Right. The guys who started that did what a lot of companies in the Valley do. They get a good idea, shop it around, raise some capital, then sell it off to a bigger company. Microsoft, Intel, Oracle, whatever. The beauty of it is, they've pretty much sold the company before they're even real. The bigger company is already set to buy it, all they want to do is make sure that the idea actually works. So they get some start up capital, make it work, then sell it for like five times the initial loan. ASHY Sort of like a letter of intent. JAKE Exactly. But the Catch-22 is that you can't tell anyone about the offer, because if it's public, you could start a bidding war and that's considered a breach of etiquette. It could kill a deal. But, wait too long and you're not considered hot anymore. ASHBY And you have this letter of intent? JAKE  Yes. That's why I wish there were guys willing to take a chance and live a little. LILY We're getting down to the wire. Apparently another company has a similar product in R&D right now.   If they beat us to it... JAKE Off the record, I'm this close to cutting someone in on the action if it'd help. Ashby considers for a moment. ASHBY Should we get another round? Jake and Lily share an almost imperceptible look. CUT TO:
78.		CONTINUED: LILY I think you'd do it for free. You' re almost drooling. You like the rush. JAKE It's what I do. It's my job. LILY Why? Your mother not breast feed you or something? JAKE Are you asking me if I have something to prove? LILY Do you have something to prove? JAKE Not in that repressed anger sort of way. LILY I'm your basic underachiever. Can't stand working and porn doesn't seem like a good option. JAKE Good quality porn has it's place in the world. LILY Whatever. But you... I get the feeling you could have bullshitted your way into anything. So why this? JAKE I'm good at it. Lying, cheating. Manipulating... I'm good at it. LILY It's more than that. JAKE Intuition. It doesn't make you Yoda. Like tonight. You killed that guy tonight. But I knew you would. LILY So that was my part?   Smile and shake my ass? JAKE No. You have another part?     You'll know what to do.
79.		CONTINUED: LILY How do you know I will? JAKE Intuition. CUT TO: INT.- LILY'S APARTMENT- NIGHT Illuminated only by the light coming from the windows... Jake runs a hand down the length of Lily's bare back. She falls onto him, both of them hitting the bed locked in a deep kiss. Lily's hand moves down Jake's arm until it finds his hand. LILY You have really soft hands.    Like a baby's. JAKE  Redheads... Jake continues to LAUGH... CUT TO:
81.		CONTINUED: LILY  What the hell was his name? JAKE Glenn talked you out of it. LILY Sort of. I was telling him about this great love of my life who's name I don't remember, and I could see... He was getting pissed. I thought it was just because he was worried about me, but...
82.		CONTINUED: LILY  Because I trust you too.
83.		CONTINUED: Jake tries a reassuring smile even though he's not sure it's something he should be smiling about. The spoon starts to RATTLE again as another subway train RUMBLES in the distance. CUT TO: EXT. - BACK ALLEY-NIGHT  We had to finalize the deal. ASHBY Everything looks in order. JAKE This has to happen fast. ASHBY I know.   It won't go unnoticed. JAKE There'll be red flags. Jake slides an envelope across the desk.
84.		CONTINUED: ASHBY What's this? JAKE You need some convincing.       Consider it a convincer. Ashby leafs through the money in the envelope. ASHBY Let's just slow down for a second... JAKE You're worried about recouping the loan. I already told you. ASHBY No, I understand that. What I mean... What I'm trying to say... I was actually wondering about... Well, my cut. ECU- A bead of sweat rolls down the back of Ashby's neck. JAKE  Then there it is. Ashby gets the itch. JAKE The standard ten. ASHBY Ten percent.     Of how much? JAKE Two million. GORDO We're going to make it back, Grant. Three or four times over. JAKE And all you need to do for your ten percent is put some paperwork through and push a button tomorrow. There's a pause before Ashby smiles, then reaches around to scratch his neck. CUT TO: INT.- CITY BANK OF MANHATTAN/HALLWAY- DAY Jake exits Ashby's office with Lupus, Gordo, Miles and Lily. They all follow Jake down the hallway.
85.		CONTINUED: GORDO You'll be there? JAKE Eight A.M. flight. GORDO Calls? JAKE We'll use the Euc. They pass the glass partitioned conference room. Jake looks inside to see Morgan Gillette holding court with a bunch of SUITS. Butch stands behind Gillette. For a second, Butch and Jake's eyes meet. CUT TO: EXT.- STREET- DAY Jake, Lily, Miles, Gordo and Lupus... As they move through the crowded sidewalk, Rottovich and Sobozinski appear behind them. ROTTOVICH Hey Jake. Jake turns just in time to catch Rottovich's fist square in the face. Jake staggers back and Sobozinski pushes him into an alley. JAKE That tip not work-out for you fellas? ROTTOVICH Tip was fine, Jake. We were a little more curious about the Fed. JAKE Hey, listen... If you guys don't pay your taxes, that's your business. Sobozinski punches Jake in the stomach.    Miles and Gordo lurch forward-- SOBOZINSKI  Back up. LUPUS You want I should hold him down?
86.		CONTINUED: Gordo throws Lupus a look. ROTTOVICH Special Agent Gunther Moonan.     Ring a bell? JAKE Gunther?    I think I'd remember a Gunther. ROTTOVICH Ring it for him, Sobo. Sobozinski punches Jake again. JAKE Oh yeah.    Moonan.   I remember now. Thanks. ROTTOVICH Well he's   in town and he sure as shit remembers   you. What are we going to do about this   Jake? We can't afford to have a Fed   onto us. JAKE Wouldn't dream of it. Rottovich punches Jake hard in the stomach, sending him GASPING to the ground. ROTTOVICH I don't know what you're into with the King Pin, but whatever it is we get a piece, understand? We get a big piece. If we find out you're keeping us out, I may suddenly develope a conscious and give you up to Moonan myself. Say something stupid if we got a deal, Jake. JAKE  I always wanted to say that... As the cops exit, Lily, Miles and Gordo rush to Jake.
87.		CONTINUED: LILY People don't like you much, do they? Jake lets out a pained GROAN as they help him up. CUT TO: INT.- CAR- DAY Rottovich and Sobozinski get in the front of a squad car. In the back, Moonan sits reading the Travel section of the NY Times. MOONAN Did he buy it? ROTTOVICH I think so.    What'd he ever do to you anyway? MOONAN Let's just say he burned me once. Moonan calmly turns the page of the paper. LUPUS  About four years ago, we were working in Miami, turf fixing for some local goon. CUT TO:
89.		CONTINUED: Moonan smiles and slides the envelope back over to Jake with a disappointed shake of his head. JAKE  Jake finishes the story to Lupus. JAKE And that's how Special Agent Gunther Moonan and I became friends. Lupus nods, satisfied. GORDO Moonan.    Here. Shit... LILY So what?   We just stay clear of him. Jake gets up, hard enough to knock the chair over. LILY Jesus... Take it easy.
90.		CONTINUED: JAKE No, I'm not going to take it easy. You can't stay clear of this guy. He will be on this until the end of time. MILES What do we do? We change the scam? JAKE There is no scam!    I've got a fucking sign on my back!    I can't leave town now and come back   with a suitcase full of money. You get    it? It's over. We walk. GORDO Jake-- JAKE What do I always tell you guys? Don't spend it all. Sooner or later we're going to run into some bad luck. Save some. Put it away, so when shit like this happens, you're not desperate. That's it. The gig's up. LILY That's it? What are you talking about? We can still do this! GORDO Jake, I mean, come on-- JAKE No, no, no! Not  this time. I am doing this for your own good! You guys have got to learn when to stop. You with the Armani! You  with the hookers! MILES Escorts! JAKE Do you even remember Al? Do you remember what he looked like sitting there? LILY You are such a raving pussy sometimes. JAKE Hey, we fucked once, honey. That hardly makes you a good judge of character. And don't think I didn't know you were working some angle with that either.
91.		CONTINUED: LILY Everyone's working an angle, right? JAKE There are three people I trust-- him, him and a guy who got killed. I don't know who you are! You're like some stray doq that wandered into the house. So I'm telling you to cut loose of this. No one's looking for you, Not the King, not Moonan and not Gillette. Just go wherever it is you would go. It's over. Lily looks around the room. No one seems to be backing her up. LILY What about... JAKE What about what? LILY What about the money? Jake stops and levels a look at Lily. JAKE So there it is. You got that big itch you need to scratch. It's all about the fucking money. What do you want, an apology? LILY No, I want my cut! JAKE I'm going to say this one last time for You, so take a deep breath and count to ten. There is no cut. Lily levels a look of utter contempt at Jake. LILY You're an asshole. With that, she grabs her coat and leaves. Lupus sits quietly, taking it all in. GORDO So that's it... JAKE That's it.
92.		CONTINUED: LUPUS King ain't gonna like this. JAKE Don't worry, I'll settle up with your boss. We haven't skipped town yet. LUPUS What I'm saying is, is that the King ain't gonna care. See he had a real thing with getting this Gillette guy, If you ask me I think he's jealous. JAKE Of what?   They're both crooks. LUPUS Exactly. `Cept this Gillette guy. He gets to walk around in three piece suits, hob knob with the Mayor, own a bank, that kinda shit. Meanwhile, the King sits holed up in the steam, afraid to even take a leak without me or Harlin watching the door. JAKE My fucking heart bleeds. LUPUS Your buddy. That fat guy. The King couldn't wait to have that guy whacked. He didn't even know who the guy was, but he was so pissed off at him, he gets him drilled. It ain't personal. It's business. JAKE Point, Lupus. Give us a point. LUPUS Point is, you don't go through with this, he's going to go after you next. And he don't even like you, Jake. Lupus stares blankly at Jake. CUT TO: EXT. - BACK ALLEY  Butch hovering over Jake... BUTCH So much for honor among thieves. You would have cut loose your friends, your girl...
93.		CONTINUED: JAKE I was doing it for them. BUTCH BULLSHIT! You were scared, Jake! You - Lost your nerve! You lost your confidence! You weren't being noble. You weren't trying to save anybody but yourself! Admit it. JAKE It's not true. BUTCH Yes it is Jake! Yes it is! They were right there for you. She was right there for you! Look at her! Jake doesn't move.    Butch grabs him by the hair and turns him towards Lily. BUTCH  He got a little shaky there for a minute, but we got him back in the batter's box. CUT TO:
95.		CONTINUED: A FLAPPING SOUND catches Jake and Lupus's attention.     A WHITE PIGEON sits on the frame of an open window. JAKE Aww, shit! CUT TO: EXT.   BACK ALLEY- NIGHT  .Jake sent me. Lily moves to the closet. LILY Jake? Hold on. I just got out of the shower. More KNOCKING.
96.		CONTINUED: Lily rumages in the closet and a baseball bat. She hefts the bat and takes a stance in front of the door. More KNOCKING. LILY HOLD ON! Another KNOCK. Lily slowly reaches for the doorknob. Then the door flies open with a CRASH. Harlin fills the doorway. HARLIN The King would like to have a word with you. Lily, wide-eyed, stands frozen with the bat still cocked.. LILY Uh, right now? HARLI Please.    I have a car waiting. Lily takes a swing.      Harlin easily grabs the bat and backhands Lily. She      goes flying back into the far wall, bounces off and lands     with a THUD at Harlin's feet where she finds the butter     knife. Harlin reaches down and pulls Lily up by the hair.            The egg SIZZLES in the pan. Lily takes a stab at Harlin, but the knife just bounces off his coat. Harlin slaps Lily again, sending her flying into the stove. Smoke starts to rise from the burning egg. Harlin steps closer, but Lily throws her hands up in surrender. A spoon RATTLES in a cup as the RUMBLE of a subway train grows LOUDER. HARLIN  I SAID, I APOLOGIZE FOR--
97.		CONTINUED: Lily shakes her head and points to her ear and mouths, "Can't hear you." Harlin moves closer and they lean into each other. HARLIN  Jake, Butch and Lily... JAKE Sorry.   I didn't know... LILY Your friend, Big Al?   It should have been you. BUTCH Alrlght, alrlght.   What happened today? JAKE Today?   Started off great... CUT TO: EXT.-- CAYMEN ISLANDS/BEACH- DAY Crystal blue water gently rolls onto virgin white sand. A jet cuts a line across the cloudless sky...
98.		CONTINUED: JAKE  So they waited for my call while Miles and I waited for Ashby's call. CUT T0: INT.- THE EUCLID- SAME Jake sits with Miles and Lupus at a table in the otherwise empty bar. MILES He should be landing in the Caymens about now. The Custom's guy is ready right? Jake stares off into space, absentmindedly flipping a penny in his hand. JAKE Feeling lucky today, Miles. Found a penny-- Heads up. There was an empty cab right outside my building. We hit every green light. MILES And we got rid of the red head. Jake considers...
99.		CONTINUED: JAKE And we got rid of the red head. MILES Jake?   Customs? Jake just nods and continues flipping the penny.       JAKE  In order to ensure that we weren't going to welch, Ashby's pay-off was to be directly deposited into his own offshore account which he could confirm electronically. In this age of ecommerce, paper currency has become " more of a liability than a commodity. Especially to us.
100.		CONTINUED: JAKE  ...They stick. Gordo shakes the Loan Officer's hand and calmly walks towards the door. CUT TO: EXT.- LAYMEN ISLANDS/STREET DAY Gordo walks across the street with the suitcase and pulls a cell phone from his pocket. GORDO First and ten.
101.		CONTINUED: Gordo hangs up without another word. He approaches a building with the words "BANK OF THE CAYMENS" engraved over the brass handled doors. CUT TO: INT.- BANK OF THE CAYMENS- DAY Gordo approaches the teller window with the check in hand. JAKE  Tell him I already left for lunch and that I'll call him later. Ashby grabs his coat and strides confidently out. CUT TO:
103.		CONTINUED: JAKE  Find two cars. And change into plain clothes. After Rottovich and Sobozinski exit, Moonan dials a number. MOONAN It's Moonan. Tonight. JFK. International terminal. Come heavy. CUT TO: INT.- THE EUCLID- NIGHT Jake sits at the bar, looking at his watch.    He notices his hand is shaking. LUPUS So that's it, huh? You get the cops to give you a safe ride. JAKE Let me ask you something... You really think I'm going to come this close, this fucking close and let my guard down? I'll get square with your boss. I'll get square with whoever did Al. I'll get square with everybody. Then I'm going going to cash in my chips and be on my way to a new and better me far away from here. LUPUS You're a weasal. Lupus gets off the stool and we follow him into... INT.- THE EUCLID/BATHROOM- CONTINUOUS Lupus enters the small.    Bathroom and pulls a cellphone.
104.		CONTINUED: LUPUS Yeah... He's landing with the money at Kennedy in a few hours. International Terminal. You were right. He's trying to fuck you. You want it, you gotta get it at the airport... CUT TO: INT.- BULLDOG GYM/LOCKER ROOM- SAME The King Pin closes the cell phone and looks over at Harlin, who's hair is singed and matted down on one side. KING PIN He's got pigs for an escort.   You believe this guy? HARLIN I'll get the car. KING PIN Always something. The King struggles into a pair of pants, then turns around. KING PIN  My ass look big in this? Harlin deliberately looks away. HARLIN Looks fine, Boss. CUT TO: EXT.-- JFK AIRPORT/PARKING LOT- NIGHT A black Lincoln Town Car rolls through the parking lot. Behind the wheel we see Harlin with the King Pin riding in the back. The Town Car passes... MILES SITTING ON THE HOOD OF A CAR LOOKING AT THE TERMINAL. We follow the Town Car as it passes... ROTTOVICH AND SOBOZINSKI STAKED OUT IN AN UNMARKED POLICE CAR A FEW SPACES PAST MILES.
105.		CONTINUED: The Town Car finally parks in the same row, each car, separated only by a few spaces. CUT TO: INT.- UNMARKED POLICE CAR- SAME Sobozinski and Rottovich overlook the terminal. SOSOZINSKI You trust this Moonan guy? ROTTOVICH I don't trust anybody. You see   how bad this guy wants Vig? It's like a sickness. I say we collar Vig ourselves. We got Vig, then we   got leverage. And we trade; Vig for   that tape. I want to see it right in   front of my face. SOBOZINSKI It's just insurance. ROTTOVICH That's what I'm talking about. SOBOZINSKI I'm down! Sobozinski holds his hand up for a high five. ROTTOVICH What are you doing? SOBOZINSKI High five. ROTTOVICH Put your hand down. I don't high five. There's the CRACKLE from a walkie-talkie. MOONAN You guys awake? ROTTOVICH  We're here. CUT TO:
107.		CONTINUED: JAKE  I got it figured out... He's got this thing with bathrooms. If he makes it through Customs, he'll be heading for the john.
108.		CONTINUED: KING PIN Good. Good.     Do not let Vig out of your sight. The King hangs up the phone and motions to Harlin to go. CUT TO: INT. -- THE EUCLID BAR- SAME Jake looks up at a small digital clock sitting behind the bar. It reads "11:11PM." Lupus emerges from the back hallway to find Jake dialing a number. JAKE What's up with you?   Bladder infection? LUPUS Keep it up. LILY  You got my cell. Leave a message. JAKE It's me. It's Jake. Listen... It's happening. Gordo's landing right now. Meet me at the Euclid... For your cut, I mean. It's... I want you to have it. Jake hangs up the phone. LUPUS You really like that bitch don't you? I gotta tell you, I was pretty convinced that the whole thing before was blowing her off for her cut. You know how it is, get her to do some shit for you, throw her a bang to keep her happy. But, if you're into her... That's cool. JAKE That's what I like about you, Lupus. You're a free thinker. Don't let the King tell you different. LIONEL Not for nothing, Jake, but the guy who whacked your buddy? It was me. The King usually farms out for that kind of stuff, but I tell ya, he was so pissed off he couldn't wait for the regular guy. Fucker didn't even put down his Kung Pao Chicken.
109.		CONTINUED: Jake seems to be reeling with the information. JAKE Egg Foo Young.  This is probably about where you came in. GILLETTE Wow. Now that's an exciting story. Butch, has anyone ever tried something like this before? BUTCH Not that I recall.   What do you want us to do about it? GILLETTE Let's see... Let's suppose he gets to Customs and he gets caught. We get our money back, but then we have to deal with a criminal investigation. I don't much like that idea. Then again, let's suppose he actually gets through Customs. Now, that'll be something. We recover the money in cash and let the insurance cover the corporate fraud. We double our money.
110.		CONTINUED: BUTCH So we go to the bar. GILLETTE I think so. The airport's going to be crawling with police. Traffic will be a nightmare. Go down to the bar. If they pull it off, great. Have someone deal with Ashby. BUTCH We'll take care of it. GILLETTE And how much did you say you wanted for this... What did you call it? A finder's fee? REVEAL Lily sitting on the couch in front of them, cell phone in hand. LIL Ten percent. GILLETTE Ten?    That seems a little high. BUTCH Ten is standard, sir. GILLETTE Fine.    But only if we recover the cash. LILY Only if--?    No way.     I want something for this. GILLETTE Have a   little faith in him, honey. Butch,   see if you can get him to tell you how   he did it. Or almost did it. Sounds   like a good story. BUTCH I' ll ask. Gillette picks up an APPLE from a bowl in his desk... The oldest con. GILLETTE Apple? CUT TO:
112.		CONTINUED: MOONAN  They pulled a switch.   Big guy.   Blue suit. Keep on him. CUT TO: EXT.- JFK AIRPORT/PARKING LOT- CONTINUOUS Rottovich turns the walkie talkie off as he and Sobozinski fall in behind Harlin. ANGLE ON MILES-- Who steps out of his car, watching the little parade go by with a look of confusion. CUT TO: INT.- THE EUCLID- SAME A LOUD THUMPING NOISE... Jake has Lupus by the hair as he rams his head repeatedly into the bar. Jake then gets him into a headlock. Lupus snaps his head back and butts Jake in the nose, sending him staggering back. CUT TO:
113.		CONTINUED: TNT.- JFK AIRPORT/TERMINAL- SAME Moonan taps the mic hidden in his sleeve, then checks the walkie. MOONAN Hello?   Can you hear me? Moonan pulls the ear plug out and races down the hall. CUT TO: EXT.- JFK AIRPORT/PARKING LOT- SAME Harlin gets to the King Pin's car and opens the back door. As he crams the suitcase in, Rottovich and Sobozinski come up behind him, guns drawn. ROTTOVICH Hey asshole. They both grin like idiots. CUT TO: INT.- THE EUCLID- SAME Jake goes flying into the bar. Lupus pushed Jake back up against the bar and lands a series of body blows. Jake manages to grab the phone and whips it across Lupus' head, sending him to the ground. Jake straddles Lupus and raises the phone for the last whack. We HEAR A LOUD CLICK. Jake stops and the two slowly get up. As they stand, we can see that Lupus has the barrel of a small gun in Jake's mouth. Jake shuts his eyes tight, still holding the phone.    Which just then, RINGS. Jake opens his eyes and looks at the phone. Then to Lupus, who nods. Jake picks up the receiver and speaks, the gun still in his mouth. JAKE Eww-Whoa? CUT TO: EXT.- JFK AIRPORT/PARKING LOT- SAME Miles on a cell phone...
114.		CONTINUED: MILES Jake! I don't know what's going on! The King Pin... He's here and he just got pinched. I think with the twinkies! It looks like half the police department's down here! In the BACKGROUND, a whirlwind of activity-- Red and blue flashing lights, half of the police department, Federal Agents in blue windbreakers... The King and Harlin slumped over the hood of the car, cuffed. CUT TO: INT. - THE EUCLID BAR- SAME Jake drops the phone and looks at Lupus. LUPUS What happened? JAKE  Sorry. What? JAKE HE GOT CAUGHT! Your boss tried to pull a switch and he got us all fucking pinched! Lupus picks up the phone and dials another number... No answer. LUPUS Shit. Lupus cocks the gun and crams it back into Jake's mouth. JAKE Aaaaiiit!!!    Ooopusss!! Lupus takes a newspaper off the bar and covers Jake's face with it. SLAM!!!-- Blood splatters across the front page of the Metro Section. The paper falls away revealing Jake, wide- eyed, the gun hanging from his mouth. Lupus lies in a heap at the floor.
116.		CONTINUED: BUTCH  Trust... CUT TO: INT.- CAR- SAME Miles gets back in the car and SCREECHES out of his parking space.
117.		CONTINUED: JAKE  INT.- DINER Jake sits with Lily, Miles and Gordo crammed into a booth.
118.		CONTINUED: JAKE Just watch everything you say around him. Every word, every move... It all goes back to the King Pin. Get it? CUT TO:  And like in a game of chess, you've played every possible move in your head... LUPUS You were right. He's trying to fuck you. You want it, you gotta get it at the airport... CUT TO:
120.		CONTINUED: Lupus nods, satisfied. CUT TO:  But what do I care? I'm dead... A THIN, WHITE VEST, splattered with blood and wired with squibs falls to the ground. POLICE SIRENS WAIL just around the corner. CUT TO:
121.		CONTINUED:
****Dialogues from script :Constantine.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cooler.txt****

written by		 Frank Hannah & Wayne Kramer
dealer		Insurance?
bernie		Forget it.
natalie		 Dewars and a Diet Coke. Please.
bernie		Hi, Natalie.
natalie		Hi. Uh...
bernie		Bernie.
natalie		Yeah, Bernie.  Hey, you seen Shelly around? He promised to position me at the tables tonight. I've been on skid row all week.
doris		 You didn't settle me from last night.
natalie		No? You sure? Fuck... And I was way under. It's been, like, an A.A. convention the whole week. I'll make up for it tonight. Promise.
bernie		If I see Shelly, I'll let him know. That you're looking for him.
natalie		Thanks.
doris		Bitch. That's the third time this month...  Let me get you that cream.
bernie		 Nah, it's okay.
doris		Don't get sweet on that, Bernie. Not unless you're looking to get short- changed.
floorman		Hey, Bernie, Shelly needs you on eleven.
bernie		 Uh... Let's do the Chivas Regal. Have that... Natalie bring it over. The one working nickel slots next to the Paradise. I spoke to Shelly earlier, he wants her at the tables.
natalie		This is you, right?
bernie		 Thanks.
natalie		Joe said I should stick around. You say something to Shelly?
natalie		Wow. That was fast. Hey, thanks.
bernie		Don't mention it.
bulldog		I'll make you a fortune on five and nine. C'mon forty-five-sixty-three fifty-four!
bernie		Hey, buddy, is this your drink?
bulldog		Back off, pal. I'm on a roll here.
stickman		Seven out!
bulldog		Mother-fucker!
stickman		Thank you for those bets, folks.
bernie		 Yeah, yeah, I'm comin'...
shelly		Nicky, how the hell are you? I didn't know you were coming in...
nicky		 Whassimater? You think I don't wash up after goin' to the John? Forget about it.
shelly		 You shoulda called ahead. I woulda sent a car...
nicky		Ehh. We thought we'd surprise you.
shelly		Well, anytime, Nicky. Anytime.
nicky		Shelly, I want you to meet one of our smartest VPs, Larry Sokolov. And his numbers guy, Marty Goldfarb.
larry		How do you do, Shelly?
shelly		What can I get you boys to drink?
shelly		So... what brings you to town, Nicky?
nicky		Look, Shelly, this is your joint, you run it the way you see fit. But we got a smart kid here and he's got some good ideas on how to revitalize the Shangri-la.
shelly		Revitalize? What are you talking about? We did thirty-five million last year.
larry		First off, Shelly, I want you to know, I have nothing but respect for you. You've done a fantastic job with the Shangri-la for the last sixteen years. No one would dispute that.
nicky		Yeah, no one doubts that, Shelly.
larry		But, the business has changed out here. You just have to take a look at the Strip to see what I'm talking about.
shelly		You mean, that amusement park mook fest out there? You know what that is? That's a fucking violation of something that used to be beautiful. That used to have class. Like a gorgeous high priced hooker with an exclusive clientele. And then that Steve Wynn cocksucker knocks her up and puts her in a family way.
shelly		Now she's nothing but a cheap, fat whore hiding behind too much makeup. I look at her and see all those ugly stretch marks and I want to cry. 'Cause I remember her as she was.
larry		Yes, well... there's no denying the bottom line. Those eyesores are raking it in. And we can't compete against that.
shelly		What? You think I'm trying to compete with that? You think this joint's about bringing in the stroller crowd? Fresh off some fucking E-ticket ride, looking to break the house on red and black. Fremont's never been about that bullshit. This is where old time and real money comes to play.
larry		The numbers, they don't back you up, Shelly. Nostalgia's grand. We all love nostalgia -- but it belongs in a museum. I think it's time to decide whether you're running a museum or a casino.
nicky		Hey, forget about it. We'll talk later. Over dinner.
marty		 So, how's the action?
shelly		Bernie. Mr. Cool. Got a moment?
bernie		I was just heading over to --
shelly		It can wait.
shelly		How's the knee?
shelly		I was speaking to this orthopedic surgeon over at Vegas Memorial. He tells me they can replace a man's entire kneecap with titanium. It's the kinda thing that costs a shitload, but since the man's into us for five hundred large, I'm sure we could --
bernie		 I told you, I'm not gonna be around after Sunday.
shelly		 Where you gonna go, Bernie? Where the fuck are you gonna go that's better'n here? I got you covered in this town. People, they know you work for me, that's currency in your pocket. That's fuckin' respect when you walk the floor. Where you gonna get that anyplace else?
bernie		 Seven days, Shelly. Seven days and I'm out from under.
shelly		That's right. I like to know who's shopping it in my neighborhood. You wanna keep working the Shangri-la, you come see me tomorrow morning in my office. We'll go over the rules together. And before you come, you bring me a clean bill of health. OK?
shelly		All right, get outta here.
shelly		You want that, Bernie? She's yours. Anytime. I'll keep a tab running for you.  What's a matter? Not your type?
bernie		Things are getting hot on fourteen. I gotta go.
natalie		Seven and Seven?
pinkerton		Thanks, dollface.
natalie		Oh shit... Sorry... I'm such a klutz.
bernie		It's all right. Happens.
natalie		Sorry, this guy... fuckin' hands, you know...
bernie		S'okay. You might want to stick around.
stickman		Excuse me, Mr. Pinkerton. You have no hard eight.
pinkerton		 Gimmie a hundred dollar hard eight.
stickman		Eight the hard way!
stickman		Nine hundred dollars to Mr. Pinkerton.
pinkerton		Parlay! Parlay!
pinkerton		C'mon. You can take that action.
pinkerton		That's what I'm talking about. None of this low limit bullshit.
bernie		Dollar hard eight.
stickman		Eight easy! Easy eight! Hard eight comes down.
pinkerton		Five hundred dollar hard eight. And press my nine up two units.
stickman		Easy way eight! Eight easy!
pinkerton		Hard eight.
stickman		Seven out!
pinkerton		What the fuck you smiling at, bitch?
buddy		Shelly. I was a goddamn embarrassment tonight. I shouldn'a let you talk me into going on.  It's definitely strep.
shelly		You were velvet out there, pops. Silk.
shelly		They were hanging on the door outside. Forget your tonsils. When the muff confetti stops coming, that's when you got yourself a problem.
buddy		 You get a receipt?
shelly		Excuse me?
buddy		Charmayne's in the lobby. They got these on sale in the window. Victoria Secret's Valentine's Collection. And the broad waiting in the room, what she set you back? Always Grade-A for Ol' Buddy.
shelly		Are you kidding me? Gimme that.  You don't fucking deserve this. All those ladies going home with a sweet breeze between their legs because you still do it for them and you're fingering me for some kinda Buddy Stafford ego pimp. Hey, fuck you, old man.
buddy		 Get back here, you prick. Hand it over.
buddy		Whassimatter, kid? You got that Nostradamus look.
buddy		You ever watch those nature shows on TV?
buddy		I've seen this one a dozen times. It's about lions. Cycle of life thing. The leader of the pack...
shelly		Pride. It's called a pride.
buddy		Yeah, pride. The leader of the pride... when he gets on in years. It's just a matter of time before some young male arrives on the scene to challenge him. They go at it and the old cat gets the crap beaten outta him. It's humiliating. In front of all the females, this goes down. And after he's defeated, he's cast out of the pride, to scavenge and die alone in the bush.
shelly		Yeah, nature's got a real sick sense of humor.
buddy		No shit. It's fucking tragic because the old lion can't figure it out on his own. That he's past it. It'd be so much easier for him to just walk away and save himself all that pain and humiliation.
shelly		That's like admitting to yourself that you're already dead. I prefer nature's way.
buddy		 Yeah. Me, too.
larry		Shelly, got a minute...
larry		Shelly, this is Johnny Capella.
johnny		How ya doin', Shelly?
shelly		I know you from somewhere, right?
larry		Johnny's been opening for Danny Ganz at the Mirage. Sony's talking about signing him to a three album deal. They're positioning him as the new Ricki Martin.
shelly		And I should be interested in this, why?
larry		Johnny's looking to headline. I told him we might be interested.
shelly		 We?
johnny		Hey, if this is a bad time...
shelly		Even if I were interested, Buddy's got ink with us through 2003. I just renegotiated his contract last year.
johnny		Sounds like the two of you need to get on the same page.  If I don't hear from you by Thursday, I'm taking the Stardust's offer.
nicky		Where's Buddy? I wanna buy the old fart a drink.
shelly		Buddy asked me to send you his regards, Nicky. He's not feeling so great. I think he's got that stomach flu that's going around.
nicky		Oh yeah? That's too bad.  Well, another time then.
marty		Hey, Shelly, Nicky says you might be able to hook us up with some showgirls. Something with class.
shelly		Sure, no problem. You got any preferences?
nicky		 Yeah. Something with big headlights, nice rims and low mileage.
marty		You got any Asian babes?
larry		I think I'll just stick with the tables.
natalie		Buy you a drink?
natalie		 You know what? This is real unprofessional of me. I shouldn't discuss your chart with you until I'm all done. I can tell by that look, you think this is all a lot of B.S.
bernie		No... I just know what the outcome's going to be.
natalie		The outcome? There's not, like, one particular outcome. A lot of things enter into it. The planets, moon phases...
bernie		The outcome won't change with me. It'll be all bad.
natalie		God, I have never met anyone who was so down on themselves. I used to be down on myself, OK? I don't go there anymore. I've got just three more correspondence classes with this stuff, then I'll have my certificate and everything. And you know how I got OK?
bernie		 You had your chart done.
natalie		Yes, as a matter of fact that is perfectly correct.
bernie		Do you know what I do at the Shangri- la?
natalie		I asked around. You're a "cooler." You turn winners into losers.
bernie		And do you know how I do that?
natalie		I know there's stuff that goes on in casinos all the time --
bernie		I do it by being myself. People get next to me and their luck turns. It's always been that way.
natalie		That sounds to me like a self fulfilling prophecy. There's a whole chapter on that in my course. Anyways, I can see a big factor in your life is that you're lacking companionship. There's nobody to deflect off. If you've got, as you put it, bad karma, then you need someone with good karma to neutralize it. Well, that's my take on it anyway.
bernie		I don't know about you, but I'm real tired.
natalie		I have this recurring dream where I'm on some beautiful island in the Bahamas. I'm sitting on the beach, taking in this amazing sunset with one of these in my hand  ...and then it starts to rain. And I wake up and it's my roof leaking on me. Yeah, I'm also real tired, Bernie.
bernie		 I only got six more days. Well, almost five really. Then I'll be leaving town.
natalie		Only five more days?  Then we shouldn't waste any more time.
natalie		Why don't we go back to your place?
bernie		 I, uh... If this is... I don't know... I don't know if I can afford...
bernie		Oh god... I'm so sorry... I didn't mean... You see -- that's exactly what I'm talking about. I've gone and "cooled" the damn table.
natalie		Ah, just shut up, Bernie. You haven't gone and cooled anything. Not by a long shot.
natalie		You should complain about this.
bernie		I'm not here that much. Drink? Sorry, all I got's gin.
natalie		Nah. I've had my fill. Go ahead.
natalie		You know, once they're dead, they don't really grow back. In case, that's what you're waiting for.
natalie		So... got any music?
natalie		Sit. Relax. I promise you, at least one of us has done this before.
bernie		This is not my first --
natalie		Sssh. Surprise me.
natalie		You're doing real good.
bernie		Sorry...
natalie		Don't worry, Bernie. I've had worse. We'll try again later.
natalie		Hey, so, you wanna get some breakfast?
bernie		After I get out, I call up Shelly and he tells me to come out here. I figure he's going to set me up good at the Shangri-la. But he tells me they got all these rules about casinos employing felons. So he gets me this gig doing telemarketing for one of their fronts -- trying to scam pensioners out of their retirement money. I lasted two weeks.
bernie		Already, I was getting in deep. Finally it got so bad, I had to beg Shelly to take on my markers around town. That just bought me more time to keep losing. I put Shelly in an awkward position. I understand why he did what he did. 
natalie		He did that to you? What, he shot you?
bernie		Baseball bat.  I got off easy.
natalie		That's getting off easy?
bernie		I was out of control.
natalie		But he maimed you...
bernie		Let me tell you something. I'm grateful for what he did.  No kidding. Every time I get an urge to play off the clock -- to so much as drop a quarter in a slot -- I reach down and squeeze what's left of my cartilage. It's one helluva reminder.
natalie		Jesus... I thought stuff like that didn't happen no more. Like that was just in the movies or something.
bernie		Anyway, Shelly and I worked out a payment plan. Two years off the books at the Shangri-la, cooling tables. Five more days and I walk.
pregnant girl		 Oh shit, I think I'm going into labor!
bernie		 Mikey?
mikey		Bernie...
pregnant girl		I'm OK now. False alarm. Thanks.
bernie		Mikey? Is that...? You're not the...
mikey		 Bull's eye. One time. Obviously runs in the family. I guess you're gonna be a grandfather, Bernie.
bernie		This you?
mikey		Hey, what the fuck, it runs. Anyways, we gotta be somewhere...
bernie		How's your mom doing?
mikey		I'm gonna pretend like you give a shit and tell you, she's getting by. As long as she's wasted.
mikey		Name's Charlene, in case you were wondering. Looks like she's carrying a whole litter in there, don't it?
natalie		When was the last time you saw a doctor?
charlene		This clinic in Jersey. Maybe six months ago. I wasn't about to go back after they treated me like cattle. Just because I didn't have no insurance. And those places, they're crawling with T.B. from all 'em spies.
bernie		So, you're in town...?
mikey		Maybe a week or so. Got some business to take care of.
bernie		If you want, stop by the Lucky Star Motel. Give us a chance to catch up. I'm on three to eleven shift at the Shangri-la. I work the floor.
mikey		No shit. Well, how 'bout that? Yeah, maybe I'll do that. We can play catch up. For the kid's sake. Gotta split.
natalie		 Take care.
player		Thanks...
bernie		Don't mention it.
dealer		 Hundred dollar minimum here, sir.
dealer		Money plays one hundred.
player		 No offense, pal, but there's twenty other tables. What do you wanna come sit on my head for?
bernie		Just wanna play one hand. Feeling lucky tonight. I got this voice in my head, says this is the table...
player		I know this is the table. I'm already doing good here. It's my fucking table --
bernie		 Hey, heard the one about the fella walks into a bar and says, "Hey, who owns that big great dane outside?" A man at the end of the bar raises his hand. "I do." The fella says, "Yeah? Well, my dog just killed it."
bernie		"Whaddya mean your dog just killed my great dane? What kinda dog you have?" The fella just shrugs and says, "A chihuahua." "You tellin' me your chihuahua just killed my great dane? How?"  "I dunno," the fella says, "I think he got stuck in his throat."
dealer		Insurance?
player		God damnit!
player		You said, one hand.
bernie		 Keep going.
player		Hey, stick around, pal. You and me, we make a great team.
shelly		What was that?
shelly		Well, what fucking gives? Is it McGann? He's been with us twelve years. The man's as standup as my dick.  Maybe he's got money problems. I'm gonna pull him. He wasn't counting 'em, was he? The mook with the streak?
larry		Is there a problem?
shelly		 No, there's no problem. Fella's on a streak, is all.
larry		 Let me guess? This is one of your "coolers?"
shelly		Why don't you announce it to the whole fucking joint?
larry		 Man, they told me you were a stickler for the old ways. But coolers? What is this guy, some kind of degenerate gambler? Reformed card shark? He doesn't look too effective to me.
shelly		He's the best. Take it from me.
larry		Sure. Whatever. But there ways -- subtle ways -- to keep things in our favor. I'm talking more forward thinking methods.
shelly		That right? I suppose you got a whole fucking prospectus on the subject.
larry		As a matter of fact I do. Like, right off the bat, I can tell you this wallpaper isn't going to cut it. It's too uplifting. I would go with more muted tones.
shelly		Yeah? Wallpaper?
larry		And personally, I think the waitresses can all pop another button or two. Myself, I wouldn't hire anything less than a C cup.
larry		Know what this is? Music to be sure. Pleasant, non-intrusive. But blended in at a subsonic level is a mantra. "Lose... lose... lose." And that's just skimming the surface. We really need to talk, Shelly.
morrie		Shelly, you better come quick.
shelly		 Get a hold of his daughter. Assist her with the arrangements. The Shangri- la will take care of everything.
morrie		What about the Paradise?
shelly		She goes dark tonight.
larry		That won't be necessary.
natalie		What?
bernie		Nothing.
natalie		What?
bernie		Nothing. You're just an easy mark, is all.
natalie		An easy mark?
bernie		Yeah. Easy mark. You never heard that term?
bernie		When we were kids, Shelly and me, we used to work Coney Island during the summer. When a guy would walk up and seemed eager to open his wallet, we would always mark him with chalk. We'd pat him on the back or arm with the chalk. Like, 'Hey buddy, good job!'  Meanwhile, he had no clue the other guys saw him coming a mile away. Easy mark.
bernie		You OK?
natalie		You notice last night, that tattoo on my butt?
bernie		 Little Joe.
natalie		Yeah, two twos. Little Joe.
natalie		I had a son. His name was Joe. I was his mother for a year.
bernie		You know, you don't have to tell me this.
natalie		I want to, Bernie. Better you know the worst of me up front. Later, when I'm already invested in you, it'll be too hard to come clean. After I tell you this, you'll probably... I mean, I'll understand.
natalie		I gave my son up for adoption. I just wanted my life back. I was seventeen going on eighteen and I was selfish. My family, they didn't want to have nothing to do with me after that. So I hitched a ride out here. Figured I could make it as a showgirl. Ten years later...  I like to think that if it happened when I was older -- with some guy I cared about -- maybe things would have been different. I think about my Little Joe. And, I do know he's better off. I'm convinced of that.
bernie		So, you wanna go try your hand at the dime pitch? It's early still.
charlene		I gotta go pee. I'm always peeing.
natalie		 How did you get in here?
mikey		I told the desk clerk Bernie was my old man. He let us wait inside. That a problem?
natalie		Bernie's looking for a parking space.
mikey		 Shit. I musta taken the last one.
mikey		Tell me something, Natalie? Is he paying you?
natalie		Excuse me?
mikey		My old man, is he renting your ass? 'Cause otherwise I just don't get it. A loser like my pops in the company of some primo T & A. It don't compute.
mikey		This enough to get me a taste? Family discount?
bernie		Mikey...
mikey		Hey, Bernie. I told you I was gonna stop by.
bernie		Yeah... I figured you'd call ahead. We were out at breakfast.
natalie		You missed some.
mikey		You see, the thing is, Bernie, we're kinda strapped. I mean, Charly here's expecting like yesterday, and we don't have the dough to make with the right nutrition for her an' all. So, I was wondering if you would care to invest a little in your grandchild's future... his well being.
bernie		There's about three grand there. That's all I got.
charlene		Bless you, Bernie.  You know, Michael, I  -- think we should name her Bernadette. After your father.
mikey		You mean, Bernie. Trust me, it's a boy.
charlene		 Wanna feel her?
bernie		I don't think... I don't want anything to hap...
charlene		Ooh, I just felt her kick. C'mon, Bernie, gimme your hand...
charlene		Feel that?
bernie		 I don't know... I think so...
mikey		We'll catch you later, Bernie. I think I'm gonna take Charly over to the hospital right now. Get her checked up real good.
charlene		Take care, Pop.
bernie		Mikey...
bernie		You're not going to try anything stupid while you're in town?
bernie		You mess up and they'll cut you no slack. That's all I'm saying. You got a kid to think about.
nicky		Shelly, I hope you don't mind...
shelly		What's going on, Nicky?
nicky		I'm sorry we didn't say nothing about this earlier... but the deal wasn't closed yet.
marty		Don't worry, Shelly, you're gonna love it.
nicky		The new Shangri-la Hotel and Casino. We break ground on her in six months.
nicky		I know what you're thinking? Where's she gonna go? You need space to expand, right? Well, that's been taken care of. We're now the proud owners of The Golden Frontier next door.
larry		 She's perfect. Three floors of gaming, IMAX theater, entertainment center, boutiques, restaurants, rollercoaster, you name it. She'll pay for herself in three years, and then it's easy money.
nicky		Isn't she great, Shell?
shelly		In "Lost Horizon," these people, their plane crashes in the Himalayas -- and they get rescued and taken to this Utopia in the mountains. Shangri- la. It's beautiful. The place is completely isolated. Untouched by the outside world. There's no war, no greed, no bullshit... Time is slowed down. People, they don't age. It's... paradise. That's what Shangri- la is. Paradise.
larry		Yeah, we've all seen the movie. And your point is?
shelly		You don't fuck with paradise! All'a ya!
nicky		Hey, Jesus, c'mon, Shelly. We're not trying to fuck with it. We're trying to make it better.
shelly		How... how, Nicky, could it be any better? Right now it's perfect. It's the last of its kind. It's pure... and this.  ...this is just... it's a mockery. An insult. Trying to make something of it that it isn't.
larry		What are you talking about? It's right outta the movie?
shelly		Whose talking about a fuckin' movie? This ain't a fuckin' movie. This is my life. This is my house of worship. You people are shittin' on all that's sacred to me.
shelly		 I got just one question? Where you gonna be when they decide to change it back? When the people, they come looking for the real Vegas, from before all this Epcott Center bullshit. Who's gonna it give it to them? You guys? I don't think so. You know who? The same fucks who started this shit in the first place. It's all gonna come full circle and bite you in the ass. Mark my words.
nicky		You make some good points, Shelly. Maybe it'll swing back the other way, who knows? But the smart money suggests we roll the dice. I'm not gonna bullshit you; naturally there's gonna be a lot of restructuring in the months to come, but I want you to know, you'll always have a place with us.
shelly		Where's that? Behind the bar?
marty		 Behind the bar, that's a good one.
nicky		I think you should take some time and think things through. All this, it's a lot to digest, y'know.
marty		Speaking of things to digest, I'm starving. How's that buffet they got in the Valley of the Blue Moon? You recommend their prime rib, Shell?
shelly		It's food.
nicky		Hey, my arteries can use a workout. Lead us to the trough, Shell.
nicky		Wait up a second...
marty		I thought we were gonna eat?
shelly		Maybe we wanna play over there. Less crowded.
nicky		Nah, let's play here. This is my lucky table. I always play here.  Go on ahead. I know where to find you guys.
stickman		Out! Seven, line away seven...
suburbanite		C"mon, pops! What the hell? I coulda paid my mortgage with the money I just lost.
shooter		Hey? I'm supposed to be next...
nicky		File a grievance, shithead.
stickman		We're coming out. Crap Eleven, any seven.
nicky		Hundred dollar big red.
suburbanite		Hurry it up, gramps. Your soup's getting cold.
stickman		Crap, Ace Deuce. Line down.
suburbanite		Hey, Busketti, maybe you should try shuffleboard.
suburbanite		Uncle Palsy? Shake'em this direction.
stickman		Four, hard four. The point is four.
suburbanite		Good now throw it before you fucking keel over and die, old man.
suburbanite		Happy birthday to me. Happy Birthday to me... Jesus, fuck, I'm another year older already.
stickman		OUT! Seven! Line away.
suburbanite		Don't take it so hard, pops. Everybody craps out.
suburbanite		Now go change your fucking Depends.
nicky		Who's laughing now, huh? ya fuckin! prick! C'mon, crack wise again... Ya fuckin' smooth as a Ken doll, no- dick, suburbanite scum. How's that for a game?!
nicky		That ain't right, Shelly! Guy fucks up my game like that. Who the fuck does he think he is?
shelly		You're right. He's just a piece of shit. Forget about him.
nicky		I thought this joint had more class. Used to be, we wouldn't even let bums like that in...
bernie		This town... You know, Natalie, all I want to do is go some place where I can tell day from night. Where they got clocks on the wall. I can't breathe around here no more. Four days and I'm gone. I'm not even sure I can hold out that long.
natalie		 So where does that leave us?
bernie		A week ago, I didn't remember what it was like to have a woman's hands on me. I'm still pinching myself, expecting to wake-up from...  Come with me, Natalie. I want you to come with me.
natalie		God, Bernie, that's...
bernie		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to spring that on you.
natalie		Bernie... I want to be with you. I do. But I don't know if I can leave with you.
natalie		I was working on a compatibility chart for the two of us. And it looks good, really, it does.
bernie		So, what's the problem?
natalie		That's with us here. In Vegas.
natalie		Maybe I was being presumptuous, 'cause I knew you were leaving... and I tried working it in different ways... It wasn't good, Bernie. I got scared. But that's just for now, for the immediate future. Once the planets realign, maybe a year from now...
bernie		Natalie... I can't... Not another year. Not another week.
bernie		I think... we probably shouldn't see each other anymore.
natalie		Why, Bernie? We only got a couple days left together. Why not make the most of them?
bernie		 Because if I spend one more night in your arms, I'm not going anywhere.
natalie		And that's so bad?
natalie		Take care, Bernie.
bernie		Natalie, don't...
bernie		 I think you better bring me the bottle. Please.
charlene		 Come on, Mikey. This is our future. Don't blow it.
mikey		Put this on the line for the boys.
mikey		With shoes!
stickman		Dealer's got shoes. Hands high, the dice are out! The point is nine.
charlene		Come on all you's. Put a good thought in for our baby!
stickman		Six the hard way!
charlene		Oh my god, I just felt him kick! He knows. He knows you're all pulling for him. God bless you all.
stickman		Six the hard way! Look out, we got a shooter!
shelly		How much?
bernie		Eighteen thousand since I stepped up. I'm sorry, Shelly, I guess I've been hit and miss lately.
shelly		 Fucking amateurs...
stickman		Seven out! Line away.
mikey		 I thank you. My wife thanks you. My unborn child thanks you.
mikey		Color me up will ya?
larry		You've gotta be kidding me.  That's not how I propose we handle it. We'll turn the matter over to the authorities. They'll be blacklisted, their credit ruined...
shelly		 And then we'll give 'em both a lollipop for the ride home. Come watch and learn, Harvard. A little lesson on how to protect your investment -- the old school way.
shelly		Hey, that was some run you had back there.
mikey		Uh, thanks. Just lucky I guess.
shelly		Why don't we go do this in my office? I don't like to hand out all this amount of cash on the floor.
charlene		Oh my God... I can feel the contractions coming on...
bernie		Shelly, stop them! Don't do this!
shelly		Get lost, Bernie, this got nothing to do with you.
bernie		It's got everything to do with me. He's my son.
shelly		What did you say?
bernie		I said, he's my --
shelly		Who? This little prick?
mikey		Pop, help me...
bernie		Shelly, don't you fucking do it!
shelly		Were you in on this? Jesus, you better come clean with me.
bernie		NO! God, no! I didn't know nothing about it.
shelly		How much you think their lives are worth, Bernie? Myself, I don't think they're worth piss. But, hey, it ain't my kid...
shelly		Let me see: they were up almost a hundred and fifty grand. That's 150 G's someone's gonna have to account for. What do you say, Bernie, seventy- five grand a piece?
shelly		Hey, I know you don't have that kind of cash. But, since you're a friend of the house, I'm willing to front you.
bernie		Shelly, they didn't get away with the money... You didn't lose anything...
bernie		Oh Jesus... Yes! All right. It's on me. 150 G's.
charlene		Oh god, oh god... you gotta get me to the hospital... contractions...
bernie		Shelly, please help her. That's my grandson...
shelly		Hey, why don't we all break out the champagne? Lootz is about to become a granddaddy.  How you doin' there, sweetheart? Must hurt like crap, huh?
charlene		 Hurts so bad...
shelly		Yeah?
natalie		Oh God...
bernie		Jesus NOOOOO!!!
shelly		Here! It's a fuckin' boy. Anyone got a cigar?
shelly		 You sure you still want to be good for it? Because if you want to change your mind, I don't blame you.
mikey		I'll make it up to you, Pop, I swear...
bernie		It's on me.
shelly		 That's the worst fucking call you ever made in your life.
bernie		What are you doing?! I thought we had --
shelly		150 G's buys their lives. This is just a little slap on the wrist to remember me by.
charlene		Oh god... it wasn't my idea.
shelly		You know, motherhood is a beautiful thing. This... you made a mockery out of it. Maybe you'll get to experience it for real one day.
charlene		 I want... to be a mother... please don't hurt me...
shelly		I'm not going to hurt you.
shelly		 Get 'em outta here. You ever see them in this joint again, kill 'em.
shelly		 You two, you're still on shift.
bernie		I did this to myself. I planted the seed. When Angela took off with Mikey, I didn't... I never made an effort to get back in his life. I figured, the kid don't need a loser for a father. Now it's all come full circle. I give him the money, I open the door to all this... I musta had it coming. Payback.
natalie		Bernie, it's a big world out there. If you just took off -- if we took off.
natalie		You awake, Bernie?
natalie		I -- think I love you.
natalie		No, I don't think. I'm pretty certain of it.
natalie		You blind-sided me, Bernie Lootz. I never saw this coming. You shouldn't do that to a girl.
natalie		There's still things you don't know... should know... I don't want to ruin it...
bernie		It won't make any difference, Natalie. Whatever you come clean about, I'm not gonna feel any different about you. I'd say the words, but with my luck...
natalie		Say 'em anyway. To hell with rotten luck. That's overs.
bernie		 I love you, Natalie.
bernie		Trixie?
bernie		Trix. You came back.
shelly		 Yeah, it's me. Get Bernie over to crap table six.
bernie		 Got any cre --
bernie		Duty calls.
floor manager		Hey, Shelly, check it out. The new Mega-Million. I call her Marnie, 'cause she's one frigid broad. Sure, once in a while she'll flash you a bit of tit, but your chances of hitting a home run -- one in twenty million. Here, give her a shot...
shelly		 You wanna tell me what's going on out there?
bernie		I don't know...
shelly		What do you mean...
shelly		 What do you mean, you don't know? We're down almost a mil out there. Doesn't seem strange to you?
bernie		 Guess I'm having an off day.
shelly		You don't have off days, Lootz. You're shitty luck incarnate. What's wrong? You coming down with something? You've got this look about you...
bernie		Nothing's wrong. Fact is, I've never felt better.
shelly		What's that supposed to mean?
bernie		She loves me, Shelly. She told me last night. Natalie.
floor manager		Sweet Jesus... you popped her cherries.
shelly		Natalie? She told you, she loves you?
shelly		Put that fucking thing out!
natalie		Sorry.
shelly		You should be. You've gone and fucked it up big time. I paid you to be his cooze companion, not his fucking true love. But, no, you had to go and get all profound on the poor schmuck.  "I love you, Bernie." You know what you've gone and done, sweetheart? Those four little words of endearment have already cost this casino a million and counting today.
natalie		I don't understand...
shelly		 Lady luck. You never heard'a lady luck?! That's what's goin' on out there. Lootz is Kryptonite on a stick. He should have 'em throwing ice cubes out there, but instead I got a fuckin' meltdown on my hands.
shelly		OK, here's what's gonna happen. You're outta his life by the time he gets home. Don't even tell him to his face, just leave a note. I'll make some calls, situate you at another joint.
natalie		I can't do that.
shelly		 Excuse me?
natalie		It wasn't an act. I meant it. I love him.
shelly		 What's there to fuckin' love? He's a loser. Always has been, always will be.
natalie		I thought you were his friend...
shelly		And I thought you were a smart cookie when I picked you out. You do not want to fuck me over, darlin'. I'll see to it that your next John's a rattlesnake out in the desert. Now get the fuck outta here.
bernie		Hi. Any of you seen Natalie around? I'm supposed to give her a ride home.
bernie		 Natalie? You in there?
bernie		 Natalie.
bernie		I want you to tell me the truth, Shelly. Did you say something to Natalie? Did you muscle her --
shelly		Jesus, Bernie, is that what you think of me? That I would fuck with your happiness? That hurts.
bernie		This guy's all flash. No soul. I miss Buddy. Place isn't the same without him.
shelly		Buddy was tired. I gave him an easy out. It coulda been a lot worse...
bernie		 You gave him an easy out? What are you talkin' about? I thought he...
shelly		He woulda never taken the buy-out offer. Buddy woulda stuck to his guns, no matter what. And they woulda ended up hurting him. I couldn't let that happen.
bernie		Jesus... you... How can you sit here and justify it? Like you were Dr. Kevorkian or something?
shelly		Listen to me, you dumb fuck -- I loved that sonofabitch. But his time was up. What I was supposed to do, leave him to those corporate wolves? What I did, it was the humanitarian thing. That I have no doubt about. Afterwards, I held him in my arms and I cried like a fucking baby. What? You got this look -- what's this fucking look?
natalie		Bernie? You awake?
bernie		Yeah.
natalie		Let's just take off.
natalie		I mean it. Let's just pack up and go. Tonight.
bernie		 I can't do that. I've got an obligation to Shelly. There's no --
natalie		Fuck Shelly. He doesn't give a shit about you. Let's just climb into your car and get the hell out of here.
bernie		I can't do that, Natalie. They'd come after me. And because you were with me... I wouldn't want that on me.
natalie		Just hold me.
natalie		Hey! Ouch! What are you...?
natalie		You got no fucking right...!
shelly		What did I tell you?! What did I fuckin' tell you?!
natalie		I tried... I couldn't...
shelly		I don't give a fuck!
shelly		You're gone, sweetheart. History. Kiss paradise goodbye.
natalie		 I can't leave! I won't! I love him. Doesn't that mean anything to you, you heartless fuck?
shelly		Who the fuck do you think you are? You ain't nobody! I could make you disappear like this...  And nobody would ever notice you were gone. Nobody!
natalie		 Bernie would! I got friends! You don't fuckin' own me. You got no right --
natalie		Fuck you!
shelly		You fuckin' cunt...
shelly		You think that's bad? That's just a taste, bitch. You're still here when Bernie gets home and I'll finish the job. I'll cut you into so many fuckin' pieces, the vultures'll be trading on you for a month.
shelly		Here... go get yourself some cosmetic surgery.
bernie		Natalie.
bernie		 Did you take something? I got some aspirin in the --
natalie		Yeah. I already took something.
bernie		Ouch!
bernie		Natalie, what happened? The mirror...
bernie		Natalie.
natalie		Bernie, no! Shit...
bernie		Oh Jesus... Natalie, who did this to you? We need to call the police...
natalie		I love you, Bernie. I just want you to know that. I fell in love with you. That wasn't part of the plan. I thought... easy money...
bernie		What are you saying?
natalie		Shelly. He paid me to get next to you. To keep you around. Whatever it took...
bernie		 Shelly?
natalie		You got it right the first night. I was for sale. Bought and paid for. You were the easy mark, Bernie.
natalie		At first you were just another John. But then I started to take a closer look. For the first time, here was someone who wasn't trying to hustle me. Wasn't pretending to be somebody he wasn't. Just a decent guy trying to get back on track. And it didn't hurt any that you put me up on a pedestal. It sure puts the gutter into perspective...
bernie		 Shelly...
natalie		Shelly wants me gone. He says I bring you luck. Lady luck. I stayed... to tell you to your face... and then you wouldn't want me no more... and I could just go...
bernie		We gotta get you to the hospital. We'll talk about this later.
natalie		Just tell me one thing, Bernie. Tell me there's gonna be a later.
bernie		Ssshh.
natalie		Tell me again, Bernie. Tell me it's all gonna be okay.
bernie		Everything's gonna be fine. This is our time. This is you and me and we're going for it.
bernie		You look in the mirror, you don't like what you see, don't believe it. You look in my eyes. That's the only mirror you gonna need. Look in my eyes, Natalie.
bernie		I love you. Marry me?
natalie		You don't have to do this, Bernie.
bernie		Yeah, I do. I have to tell him right to his face. I will not look over my shoulder for the rest of my life -- our lives.
natalie		Bernie, your chart... that first night. I wasn't being straight with you. It's the worst chart I've ever seen. There's nothing in the cards for you. I'm scared...
bernie		Don't you see, that was before you opened your heart to me. Everything's different now. I got lady luck on my side. Ain't nothing gonna happen to me.
natalie		It's three thousand dollars. Take it. Maybe Shelly'll accept it as a down payment. We can send him the rest in installments... after we get settled.
bernie		I don't think --
natalie		Take it.
bernie		Whatever happens, I --
natalie		 I know, Bernie.
natalie		 I know.
shelly		Bernie, what's the matter? You look a little fucking spooked.
bernie		You lay another finger on her, I swear to God I'll kill you. You hear me? I'll fuckin' kill you!
shelly		Will you excuse me for a moment?
bernie		 Why? Why, Shelly?
shelly		Because you never give up a good thing, Bernie. You are a good thing. The best fuckin' cooler there ever was. And I need him back.
bernie		He ain't never comin' back.
shelly		That's a dead man talking.
bernie		I'm through with this joint, Shelly. Natalie and me, we just got married. We're outta here. I'll get a job out there in the world. Send you half my paycheck every month. Make good on my obligations.
shelly		 You try to walk on me, Bernie, and I'll fuckin' bury you. The both of you.
bernie		I don't think so.
bernie		You whack me, then Bernie Lootz ain't the world's biggest loser no more. That honor's gonna fall upon you, Shelly. And maybe you had it all along.
shelly		What the fuck? Me? I'm the loser?
bernie		What you got? What do you got in your life besides this joint?
shelly		What the fuck more do I need?
bernie		You got nothin', Shelly. This place -- your legacy -- it's a mirage. You turn your back and it don't even exist. There's no day, there's no night, it's all just one big fuckin' blur and it don't count for nothin'!
shelly		You believe this fuckin' guy?
bernie		I feel real sorry for you. Yeah, you got this fear of germs thing. But it goes deeper than that. You can't get close to no one. On an emotional level. You're the worst kind of gambler there ever was: too scared to put his chips on the table. Too scared to open his heart... to extend any real kinda friendship. Always afraid it's gonna end out in the desert. Well, sweet fuckin' dreams, pal, 'cause I'm out and if that's where it ends, that's where it ends.
shelly		That's a real heartfelt speech, Lootz. All that Jimmy Stewart in ya face intensity. You almost sold me.  But it still don't change things. You bail on me without making good on my 150 G's and I'm gonna be forced to close the books on you. You and the broad. You leave me no choice.
bernie		Change only...
croupier		Check change three thousand.
boxman		This a pleasure cruise, Bernie?
bernie		You could say that.
boxman		Well, it'll be a short one. Table's dead.
croupier		It is now, anyway.
stickman		Yo Eleven! Pay the line.
stickman		Winner seven!
stickman		Six easy. Easy way six!
bernie		 Natalie... this is you...
bernie		For the boys.
stickman		Okay, we're coming out. Get your YO bets, C&E, any seven...
shelly		 How much is he up?
boxman		Around three hundred thousand.
shelly		Why didn't one of you fucking geniuses call me?
boxman		We tried. You weren't picking up. Besides, it was Bernie.
stickman		Alright. We're coming out folks, hands high...
bernie		Wait!
bernie		Color me up a hundred fifty thousand.  And give it to him.
bernie		That's what I owe you, Shelly. There it is. We're square.  Let it be known, Bernie Lootz lives up to his obligations.
boxman		One hundred fifty thousand, coming in.
larry		What's the matter with you? He's one of ours and he's taking us to the fucking cleaners.
shelly		Lootz's off the clock. As long as he's off the clock, he's free to play. Just like every other schmuck in this joint.
larry		It smells wrong. I'm shutting him down. He's not leaving here with a dime --
shelly		Now you listen real good, you Harvard turd. Lootz is on the up-and-up. He leaves here tonight with whatever he comes out with. You so much as touch a hair on his head and I'll fucking wallpaper this joint with your ass. Muted tones, right?  What's that? I don't hear nothing. Wait a minute -- yeah, now I hear it.
stickman		Crap ace deuce! Line down!
stickman		Call it.
croupier		Twelve crap.
bernie		Fifty thousand dollars!
bernie		Come on sixty-six!
natalie		Thank God... I thought for sure...
natalie		It's okay, right? You guys worked it out. He took the three grand? Tell me it's okay, Bernie?
lou		Want me to get that, Shelly?
natalie		What are you stopping for?
bernie		I think I'm gonna...
bernie		Bahamas, here we come, baby.
cop		Step out of the car please.
bernie		 What's the problem, officer?
cop		Just step out of the car, please. Both of you.
bernie		If my driving... if I was going a little fast -- I was just over excited, officer. See, we just had a big win at the Shangri-la --
cop		You didn't win nothing.
natalie		Oh Jesus, Bernie, I knew it. It was too good to be true. Who were we kidding?
cop		Get down on your knees. Both of you.
nicky		The kid wants you should know, Shelly, he's just protecting our investment -- the old school way. See you around.
bernie		He was drunk. It was just freak luck... 
natalie		Don't give it a name, Bernie. It scares me. All I know is, you're still running hot and that's a good thing. But we're only winners if we keep going. No looking back.
bernie		Lady luck, Natalie. I'm calling it. Lady luck. And we got it as long as we're together. They can't touch us now.
larry		Gentlemen...  I thank you for your vote of confidence. As the Shangri-la's new Director of Casino Operations, I'm gonna make a personal guarantee to each and every one of you. Your investment in this casino will be well looked after. The future looks bright, gentlemen. Very, very bright.
****Dialogues from script :Copycat.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Coraline.txt****

coraline		Hello?...   Who's there?
coraline		You scared me to death, you mangy thing!
wybie		  Hoo! Let me guess, you're from Texas or Utah; someplace dried out and barren, right? I heard about water-witching before but it doesn't make sense; I mean, it's just an ordinary branch.
coraline		   IT'S A DOWSING ROD!
wybie		Ow!
coraline		And I DON'T LIKE BEING STALKED, not by  PSYCHO-NERDS OR THEIR CATS!
wybie		He's not really my cat; he's kinda feral you know, wild? Of course, I do feed him every night and sometimes he'll come in my window `n bring me little dead things.
coraline		  Look, I'm from Pontiac.
wybie		Huh?
coraline		MICHIGAN? And if I'm a "water witch",  THEN--  --where's the secret WELL?
wybie		You stomp too hard and you'll fall in it!
coraline		  Huh.
wybie		Surprised she let you move in...
coraline		What do you mean?
wybie		 Uh... I'm not supposed to talk about it.
coraline		  Wybie?
wybie		Short for Wyborne. Not my idea, of course. What'd you get saddled with?
coraline		I wasn't saddled with anything. It's Coraline.
wybie		Caroline what?
coraline		Coraline. Coraline Jones.
wybie		 Hmmm... It's not real scientific, but I heard an ordinary name, like Caroline --
coraline		I think I heard someone calling you, Wyborne.
wybie		What? I didn't hear anything--
coraline		Oh, I definitely heard someone, Why-were- you-born.
wybie		 Grandma!
coraline		  Why?
coraline		Ehh!!
coraline		I almost fell down a well yesterday, Mom.
mel		 Uh huh.
coraline		I would have died.
mel		 That's nice.
coraline		Hmmm. So can I go out? I think it's perfect weather for gardening.
mel		No, Coraline. Rain makes mud. Mud makes a mess.
coraline		But Mom, I want stuff growing when my friends come to visit. Isn't that why we moved here?
mel		Something like that. But then we had the accident.
coraline		Wasn't my fault you hit that truck.
mel		I never said it was.
coraline		  I can't believe it -- you and Dad get paid to write about plants and you hate dirt.
mel		Coraline, I don't have time for you right now. And you still have unpacking to do. Lots of unpacking.
coraline		That sounds exciting.
coraline		 Huh... a little me? That's weird.
mel		What's his name, anyway?
coraline		Wybie. And I'm way too old for dolls.
coraline		Hey Dad, how's the writing going?... Dad?
charlie		Hello, Coraline...  And... Coraline doll?...
coraline		D'you know where the garden tools are?
charlie		It's pouring out there, isn't it.
coraline		Humph, it's just raining.
charlie		What'd the boss say?
coraline		  "Don't even think about going out, Coraline Jones."
charlie		Then you won't need the tools.
coraline		So?
charlie		So explore it!
coraline		Ewww!
charlie		No, no, no, no, no; GAAAA--!
coraline		One boring blue boy in a painfully boring painting ... four incredibly boring windows ... and no... more... doors...
mel		I'm really, really busy!
coraline		I think it's locked.
mel		Uhhh...
mel		Will you stop pestering me if I do this for you?
coraline		Bricks? I don't get it.
mel		They must have closed this off when they divided up the house.
coraline		You're kidding? And why is the door so small?
mel		We made a deal. ZIP IT!
coraline		You didn't lock it.
charlie		I think you are so nice, I give you bowls of porridge And I give you bowls of ice --
charlie		 -- cream!
coraline		Why don't you ever cook, Mom?
mel		Coraline, we've been through this before: your Dad cooks, I clean, and you stay out of the way.
coraline		Looks more like slime to me.
charlie		Well, it's slime or bedtime fusspot -- now what's it going to be?
coraline		Think they're trying to poison me?
coraline		Don't forget about me, guys. Okay?
coraline		Whoa...
coraline		Huh?
coraline		Mom?! What are you doing here in the middle of the night?
other mother		You're just in time for supper, dear!
coraline		You're not my mother.
other mother		B-b-b-buttons? Do you like them?
coraline		Hello?
other father		Hello, Coraline. Want to hear my new song?
coraline		My father can't play piano.
other father		No need to ... this piano plays ME!
coraline		I, uh  sorry  but she said to tell you the food's ready.
other father		Mmmmm! Who's starving? Raise your hand.
other father		We give our thanks and ask to bless, Our Mother's golden chicken breast!
coraline		Mmmm, this chicken is good.
other mother		Hungry, aren't you.
coraline		 D'you have any gravy?
other mother		Well, here comes the gravy train! Choo- choo!
other mother		Another roll, sweet peas? Corn on the cob?
coraline		 I'm real thirsty.
other mother		Of course! Any requests?
coraline		Mango milk shake?
other mother		We've been waiting for you, Coraline.
coraline		For me?
other father		Yep. Wasn't the same here without you, kiddo.
coraline		I didn't know I had an Other Mother.
other mother		Of course you do. Everyone does.
coraline		Really?
other mother		Uh huh, and soon as you're through eating, I thought we'd play a game.
coraline		  You mean like, hide and seek?
other mother		Perfect! Hide and seek in the rain.
coraline		What rain?
other father		We love mud here!
other mother		Mud facials, mud baths, mud pies -- it's great for poison oak.
coraline		  How'd you know I--
other mother		But I'm your other mother.
coraline		  I think I should get to bed.
other mother		Of course, sweetheart, it's all made up.
coraline		 But ...
other father		Come along, sleepyhead.
coraline		Wow.
dragonflies		Hello Coraline, hello, hello!
toy squid		What's shakin', baby?
coraline		Hello.
coraline		Kripes a-mighty, how are my best trolls? I can't wait till summer. You're both comin', right?
coraline		Oh, the mud...
pull back match		 DISSOLVE:
coraline		  It's gone, my poison oak, it's gone!...
coraline		  Huh?
coraline		It was incredibly real, Mom! Only you weren't really you; you were my other mother.
mel		  Coraline, you only dreamed you ate all that chicken. Take your multi-vitamin, at least.
coraline		You were in the dream too, Dad. You had wild-looking pajamas and orange monkey slippers.
charlie		 Orange? My monkey slippers are blue.
mel		If the real Charlie Jones wants his pages edited, he'd better wrap them up ASAP.
coraline		Miss Spink and Forcible? But you said they're dingbats.
mel		  Uh huh.
coraline		Bo-bin-sky...Bo-bin-sky....Bo-bin-sky...
coraline		H-hello?...
coraline		  Circus?... Oh, uh, I brought this for you.
coraline		Huh?
coraline		Meeshkas?
coraline		Oh, sorry. I'm Coraline Jones.
coraline		Cor-a-line.
coraline		 Oompah oompah, toodle toot, toodle toot.
coraline		No!!!
coraline		The...jumping mice?
coraline		The one behind the wall paper? But... it's all bricked up.
miss spink		  How nice to see you, Caroline. Would you like to come in? We're playing cards.
coraline		Still Coraline, Miss Spink.
miss spink		 Miriam, put the kettle on!
miss forcible		April, I think you're being followed.
miss spink		It's the new neighbor, Miriam - Caroline? She'll be having the Oolong tea.
miss forcible		No, no, no, no. I'm sure she'd prefer Jasmine.
miss spink		No, Oolong.
miss forcible		Ah, Jasmine it is, then.
miss spink		Come on, boys!
coraline		  Are those dogs .... real?
miss spink		 
miss forcible		Oh go on, have one  it's hand-pulled taffy from Brighton  best in the world.
coraline		Read what?
miss spink		Oh, your tea leaves, dear. They'll tell me your future. Drink up then, go on.
miss forcible		Oh, give me that cup, April, your eyes are going.
miss spink		My eyes! You're blind as a bat!
miss forcible		Oh, now, ummm... not to worry, child, it's good news: there's a tall, handsome beast in your future.
coraline		A what?
miss spink		Miriam, oh really, you're holding it wrong.
coraline		What do you see?
miss spink		  I see a very peculiar hand...
miss forcible		I see a giraffe.
miss spink		Giraffes don't just fall from the sky, Miriam.
miss forcible		Oh, lord!
coraline		Well, what should I do?
miss spink		Never wear green in your dressing room.
miss forcible		Acquire a very tall step ladder.
miss spink		And be very, very careful. Now, was there something you came to tell us?
coraline		No, I guess not. Thanks for the tea, though.
miss forcible		Toodle-oo.
miss spink		Cheery-bye.
coraline		 Danger?
wybie		Owwwwwwww!
coraline		Great, the village stalker.
wybie		Ow. I - I wasn't stalking you. We're hunting banana slugs.
coraline		What d'ya mean, "we?"
wybie		What? He hates to get his feet wet. Geez.
coraline		  Wuss-puss...
wybie		Oh no; I found it that way. It's older than Gramma -- old as this house prob'ly.
coraline		 C'mom - blue hair, my swampers and raincoat?
wybie		Dang, check out Slugzilla!
coraline		  You're just like them.
wybie		Huh?
coraline		I meant my parents; they don't listen to me either.
wybie		Uh huh... You mind?
coraline		Ew!
wybie		You know, I've never been inside the Pink Palace.
coraline		  You're kidding.
wybie		Grandma would kill me. Thinks it's dangerous or something.
coraline		Dangerous?
wybie		Well... she had a twin sister.
coraline		So?
wybie		Uhhh, I-I don't know.
wybie		Look, I gotta go.
coraline		Wait a minute!
other mother		Welcome back, darling.
coraline		Hi.
other mother		So thoughtful of you to send this nice cheddar, Coraline.
coraline		Cheddar?... Oh, the mice bait...
other mother		Would you go fetch your father?
coraline		You mean my Other Father?
other mother		Your better father, dear.   He's out in the garden.
coraline		Mmmmmm!
other mother		Go on...
other father		Hey!!!
coraline		I love your garden!
other father		Our garden, Coraline!
coraline		  Oh ah, stop! Stop tickling, ah!
other father		Oops, daughter in distress!
coraline		Well, she says it's time for dinner ... breakfast ... food?
other father		Hop on, kiddo, I want to show you something!
coraline		I can't believe you did this!
other father		Mother said you'd like it! Boy she knows you like the back of her hand.
coraline		Mmmm...so good!
other father		I love dinner, breakfast food.
other mother		Coraline, Mr. Bobinsky has invited you to come see the Jumping Mice perform after dinner.
coraline		Really. That know-it-all Wybie said it was all in Mr. B's head, I knew he was wrong.
other father		Well, everything's right in this world, Kiddo.
other mother		Your father and I will clean up while you and your friend head upstairs.
coraline		My friend?
other mother		I thought you'd like him more, if he spoke a little less.  So I fixed him.
coraline		So he can't talk at all?
other mother		Nope.
coraline		Hmm, I like it.
other mother		  Now run along, you two, and have fun.
coraline		You're awful cheerful, considering you can't say anything.
coraline		Whoa... cool!
coraline		  My name!
coraline		We loved it, Mr. B. It was ... so ... so--
coraline		A-mazing!
pull back match		 DISSOLVE:
coraline		Ughhh.
charlie		You sure you won't come?
mel		 Don't fret, Charlie, they'll love the new catalog. At least, they'll love my chapters.
charlie		Well, I guess I'll see you around, you dizzy dreamer.
coraline		Da-ad! I'm not five anymore.
young rascal		My kingdom for a hooooooorse!!!!
mel		Put them back.
coraline		But Mom, the whole school's gonna wear boring gray clothes. No one will have these.
mel		Put them back.
coraline		My other mother would get them.
mel		Maybe she should buy all your clothes.
coraline		So what do you think's in the other apartment?
mel		I don't know. Not a family of Jones imposters.
coraline		Then why'd you lock the door?
mel		 Oh, I found some rat crap and... I thought you'd feel ... safer.
coraline		They're jumping-mice, Mom! And the dreams aren't dangerous; they're the most fun I've had since we've moved here.
mel		Your school might be fun.
coraline		With those stupid uniforms?   Right.
mel		Had to give it a try.
mel		How do you feel about a mustard-ketchup- salsa wrap for lunch?
coraline		Are you kidding me?
mel		Mmm... Had to go food shopping anyway. Dad's planning something special.
coraline		Gross-gusting.
mel		  You wanna come along? You can pick out something you like.
coraline		Oh, like the gloves?
mel		Look, Coraline... if things go well today, I promise I'll make it up.
coraline		That's what you always say.
mel		Won't be long.
coraline		  But I might be...
coraline		  I knew it was real!
coraline		Hmmm... Wybie's got a cat like you at home. Not the quiet Wybie; the one that talks too much. You must be the Other Cat.
cat		No. I'm not the other anything. I'm me.
coraline		Um... I can see you don't have button eyes. But if you're the same cat, how can you talk?
cat		I just can.
coraline		Cats don't talk at home.
cat		No?
coraline		Nope.
cat		  Well, you're clearly the expert on these things. After all, I'm just a big fat wuss puss.
coraline		Come back. Please? I... I'm sorry I called you that, I really am.
cat		I've been coming here for a while.
coraline		  The Other Mother hates cats?
cat		  Not like any "mother" I've ever known.
coraline		What do you mean? She's amazing!
cat		You probably think this world is a dream come true. But you're wrong. The Other Wybie told me so.
coraline		That's nonsense. He can't talk.
cat		Perhaps not to you. We cats, however, have far superior senses than humans and can see and smell, and --
coraline		Hey, Wybie.
coraline		 Oh my God.
coraline		  I can't look!
young forcible		What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason!
young spink		How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable!
young forcible		In action like an angel!
young spink		In apprehension how like a god!
coraline		Ahhh!!!
young forcible		The beauty of the world!
young spink		The paragon of animals!
coraline		Yeah!!
other father		Hey there.
other mother		Was it wonderful, dear?
coraline		Oh yeah. They swooped down and pulled me right out of my seat  Spink and Forcible. Only they weren't old ladies, that was just a disguise. But then, I was flying through the air and... it was, it was magic.
other mother		You do like it here, don't you, Coraline?
coraline		 Uh-huh! Good night, Wybie.
other mother		You could stay here forever... if you want to.
coraline		Really?
other father		Sure...we'll sing and play games, and Mother will cook your favorite meals.
other mother		There's one tiny little thing we need to do.
coraline		What's that?
other father		Well, it's a surprise.
other mother		For you ... our little doll.
coraline		 NO WAY!
other mother		Oh, but we need a yes ... if you want to stay here.
other father		  So sharp you won't feel a thi-- Oww!
other mother		There now; it's your decision, darling. We only want what's best for you.
coraline		I'm... I'm going to bed! RIGHT NOW!
other mother		  Bed?
other father		Before dinner?
coraline		I'm really, really tired. Yeah...  I just need to sleep on things.
other mother		Well of course you do, darling... I'll be happy to tuck you in.
coraline		 Oh, no thanks, uh, you-you've done so much already--
other mother		You're welcome. And I  Soon you'll see things our way.
magic dragonfly		What's wrong, Coraline? Don't you want to play?
toy squid		Yeah, I wanna hugga your face!
photo friends		Hey!
coraline		I'm going home tonight, robots - and I won't be back.
coraline		Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep...
coraline		Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep...
match pullback		 DISSOLVE:
coraline		Mom!... Dad!..
coraline		Hey you! Where's the Other Mother?     I want to go home.
other father		All will be swell, soon as Mother's refreshed. Her strength is our strength.
coraline		If you won't even talk to me, I'm gonna find the Other Wybie. He'll help me.
other father		No point; he pulled a long face...
cat		And what do you think you're doing?
coraline		Well, I'm gettin' outta here. That's what I'M doing.
cat		Nothing out here ... it's the empty part of this world. She only made what she knew would impress you.
coraline		But why? Why does she want me?
coraline		Eat? That's ridiculous, mothers don't eat daughters!
cat		I don't know. How do you taste?
coraline		Huh? But how can you walk away from something and still come back to it?
cat		Walk around the world.
coraline		Small world.
cat		Hang on--
coraline		Stop, he's one of the circus mice!
cat		I don't like rats at the best of times, but this one was sounding an alarm.
coraline		Gooooood kitty.
coraline		I want to be with my real mom and dad. I want you to let me go.
other mother		Is that any way to talk to your mother?
coraline		You aren't my mother.
other mother		Apologize at once, Coraline!
coraline		No.
other mother		  I'll give you to the count of three. One...
coraline		Ow, what are you doing!
coraline		Ow, that hurts!
coraline		  Who's there?
coraline		  You ... you mean the Other Mother? ...
boy ghost		  Don't remember our names... But I `member my true mommy...
coraline		Why are you all here?
all ghosts		The Beldam!
boy ghost		And saw that we weren't    happy.
boy ghost		Gave all that we asked -
boy ghost		She said that she loved us,
all ghosts		And ate up our lives.
coraline		Well, she can't keep me in the dark forever; not if she wants to win my life. Beating her is my only chance.
coraline		Has she taken those, too?
boy ghost		Find our eyes, mistress, and our souls will be freed.
coraline		I ... I'll try.
coraline		   WYBIE?..
other wybie		Shhh.
coraline		Let's go!
coraline		Come on. She'll hurt you again!
coraline		 I'M HOME!
coraline		Anybody here? Hello, hello, hello! Real Dad ... Real Mom!
coraline		Oh, Mom's groceries!
coraline		I missed you guys so much-- You'll never--
coraline		Oh... the Wybie that talks...
wybie		Huh? Ha ha ha....yeah... Um, so you know tha-that old doll I gave you?
coraline		  You stole that doll, didn't you?
coraline		It used to look like this pioneer girl; then Huck Finn junior; then it was this Little Rascals chick with all these ribbons, and braids, and....
wybie		Uh, listen, I-I-I'm really not supposed  TO--
coraline		She's in there.
wybie		C-can you  can you unlock it?
coraline		Not in a million years. But it wouldn't matter; she can't escape without her eyes. None of the ghosts can.
wybie		Huhhhhhh... So, uh, I really need to get that doll?
coraline		Great! I'd love to get rid of it!
coraline		Where are you hiding, you little monster?!
wybie		You and Gramma been talking?
coraline		The doll's her spy! It's how she watches you, finds out what's wrong with your life!
wybie		The doll...is my Gramma's...spy.
coraline		NO! - the Other Mother! She's got this whole world where everything's better - the food, the garden, the--  --neighbors.
wybie		Yeah... Uh, I think I heard someone calling me, Jonesy.
coraline		Don't believe me?... You can ask the cat!
wybie		The cat... I-I'll just tell Gramma that you couldn't find the doll-- OW!
coraline		You're not LISTENING TO ME!
wybie		That's ... cause ... you're CRAZY!
coraline		You creep!
wybie		 Crazy!!
coraline		Crazy?... You're the jerk-wad that gave me the doll!
coraline		Pick it up, Dad, pick it up.
coraline		Dad!   Whe-
coraline		Where have you gone?
coraline		Uh... don't you only make wings for the ... dead ones?
miss spink		Just looking ahead dear... Angus hasn't been feeling very well of late.
miss spink		 We've lost our ride, Miriam. Caroline says her parents have vanished, quite completely.
miss forcible		What?! We've waited months for those tickets.
miss spink		I suppose we could walk!
miss forcible		With your gamy legs? It's nearly two miles to the theater!
miss spink		Oh, oh yes ... your missing parents. We know just what you need. Miriam, get...that's right.
coraline		How is hundred-year-old candy going to  HELP--
miss spink		There you go, sweety.
coraline		What's it for?
miss spink		Well,it might help. They're good for bad things, sometimes.
miss forcible		No, they're good for lost things.
miss spink		It's bad things, Miriam.
miss forcible		Lost things, April.
miss spink		Bad.
miss forcible		Lost.
miss spink		Bad things!
miss forcible		Lost.
miss spink		Bad.
miss forcible		Lost.
coraline		Good-night, Mom. Good-night, Dad.
coraline		Hello. How did you get in?
coraline		 MOM! DAD!!
coraline		She's taken them.
coraline		They're not coming back, are they  Mom and Dad. Not on their own.
cat		You know, you're walking right into her trap.
coraline		I have to go back.
cat		Challenge her then. She may not play fair but she won't refuse. She's got a thing for games.
coraline		Hmmm, okay.
mother		Coraline?
coraline		Mom?
mother		Coraline, you came back for us!
coraline		   MOM!
mother		Darling!  Why would you run away from me?
coraline		Where are my parents?
coraline		They weren't bored of me.   You stole them!
coraline		  Why don't you have your own key?
other father		Only one key.
other father		Squish squash, pumpkin sauce...
coraline		 Mom, Dad, where'd she hide you?
coraline		  Uh huh.
other mother		And what is it you'd be finding, Coraline?
coraline		My real parents.
coraline		And, and the eyes of the ghost children.
coraline		If I lose, I'll stay here with you forever and let you love me.  And I'll let you sew buttons into my eyes.
coraline		Then you let me go. You let everyone go my real father and mother, the dead children, everyone you've trapped here.
coraline		Not till you give me a clue.
coraline		And for my parents?
coraline		No!!
other father		Sorrry, so sorrry, Motherrr making meeee.
boy ghost		Bless you, miss, you found me! But there's two eyes still lost.
coraline		Don't worry, I'm getting the hang of it!
coraline		  The pearl!
taffy monster		Thief!! Give it back!
coraline		Oh, Wybie...
coraline		I'm Coraline.
coraline		Uh-huh.
coraline		You don't get it, do you?
coraline		Of course you don't understand. You're just a copy she made of the real Mr. B.
coraline		Ahhh! No!!
coraline		Noooo!
cat		I think I mentioned that I don't like rats at the best of times.
coraline		I think you might have said something like that.
cat		It looked like you needed this one, however.
coraline		Thank you.
beldam		So, you're back....
coraline		No, I ... I brought a friend.
beldam		  You know I love you.
coraline		You, you have a very funny way of showing it.
beldam		So?     Where are they - the ghost eyes?
coraline		Hold on.
beldam		No, I suppose not. After all, you still need to find your old parents, don't you? Too bad you won't have this.
coraline		I already know where you've hidden them.
beldam		Well... produce them.
coraline		They're behind that door.
beldam		Oh, they are, are they?
cat		There!
coraline		  Mom.   Dad!
beldam		You're wrong, Coraline!
coraline		No ... I'm ...
beldam		 NOOOOOOOOO!
beldam		 ... DISOBEY YOUR MOTHER??!!
coraline		 PLEASE...SHUT!!
coraline		Mom! Dad! I missed you so much!
mel		Missed us?
coraline		I didn't break it. It must've broke when you escaped.
mel		And cut your knee.
charlie		Coraline, I asked you to count all the windows, not put your knee through them.
coraline		 BUT-
mel		Well, get yourself cleaned up,   we're going out tonight.
charlie		We gotta lot to celebrate!
coraline		You're talking about... your garden catalog?
mel		Of course! What else?
coraline		But look at the snow on your clothes...?
mel		  What's gotten into you, Coraline?
coraline		So, gonna order the tulips?
charlie		What's that?
coraline		For the garden party!!
charlie		I have no idea what you're talking about.
coraline		Dad!
mel		Even Bobinsky?
coraline		Mr. B's not drunk, Mom, he's just...eccentric.
charlie		Good night, Coraline.
coraline		Oh, hello again.
coraline		Well, I'm glad it's finally over!
coraline		What about...me?
coraline		But how?   I locked the door!?
boy ghost		  Tain't all bad, miss. Thou art alive ... thou art still ... living...
coraline		I -- I've gotta hide this somewhere, s- somewhere she can never ...
coraline		Oh.... my twitchy witchy girl, I think you are so nice ...
coraline		... I give you bowls of porridge And I give you bowls of ice cream.
coraline		... But I never give you sandwiches With grease and worms and mung beans.
wybie		 YAHHHHH!!!!
coraline		Why did you change your mind?
wybie		W-well, Gramma showed me this picture, after I called you crazy?
coraline		The sweet ghost girl.
wybie		 Oh, man...what am I going to tell her?
coraline		Just bring her by the house tomorrow.      We can tell her together.
wybie		We...we can??
coraline		You know, I'm glad you decided to stalk me.
wybie		Wasn't my idea.
coraline		Thanks for helping me, Miss Spink, Miss Forcible.
miss forcible		 Oh, look April - Pink Ladies!
coraline		Actually, it's just lemonade.
miss spink		Oh, much better, dear... But he can't duck his wings forever!
charlie		Here comes a burp.
mel		  Charlie!
charlie		Oh, excu-say-moi, but that pizza was delicious.
coraline		Cold drinks?
charlie		  Oh yeah, great!
mel		  You were right, Coraline. I really hate dirt, but the tulips look nice.
coraline		Thanks, mom.
coraline		How are the meeshkas, Mr. B?
wybie's grandmother		  --I grew up here.
coraline		Welcome, Ms. Lovat!
wybie's grandmother		Oh, hello.
coraline		I'm Coraline Jones -- I've got so much to tell you!
****Dialogues from script :Coriolanus.txt****

cassius		Before we proceed any further, hear me speak -- You are all resolved rather to die than to famish? The others agree. They are not wild-eyed radicals. They are normal people, from all walks of life. You and me.
cassius		First, you know Caius Martius is chief enemy to the people. A voice from the back of the room:
tamora		Let us kill him. The others turn. Tamora, just entering, pulls off her coat, joins the others:
tamora		And we'll have corn at our own price. Is it a verdict? Some are unsure. She is too extreme for some.
young mother		Will you proceed especially against Caius Martius?
cassius		Against him first. A COLLEGE PROFESSOR, speaks up:
college professor		Consider you what services he has done for his country?
college professor		Nay, but speak not maliciously. She has over-played her hand. Pretends to back down:
tamora		I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did it to that end...  He did it to please his mother. Some laugh at her gossip. Then the TV image switches to a BREAKING NEWS update: From the Roman Senate. An august press room. A Senator is moving to a podium to make a statement. He is Senator MENENIUS is a seasoned and wily politician. Silver hair, perfectly tailored suit. He is known as a folksy "man of the people." It is a role he plays to perfection.
cassius		Soft, who comes here?
college professor		Worthy Senator Menenius, one that hath always loved the people.
tamora		He's one honest enough; would all the rest were so.
well		Strike at the heavens with your staves as
lift them		Against the Roman state--
tamora		 Suffer us to famish, and their storehouses crammed with grain-- The others shush her.
slander		The helms of the state, who care for you like fathers, When you curse them as enemies-- Cassius mutes the TV. We see Senator Menenius continuing with his speech; his attempt to calm the dangerous situation.
cassius		Care for us? They never cared for us yet!
tamora		If the wars eat us not up, they will: and that's all the love they bear us. The others are growing increasingly restive -- shifting --
cassius		Why stay we prating here?
tamora		No more talking on it! To the Capitol! Come! Come!
martius		What's the matter, you dissentious rogues, That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, Make yourselves scabs?
flatter		Beneath abhorring. The crowd is hushed. Taking in his every word.
martius		What would you have, you curs? He that trusts to you, Where he should find you lions, finds you
martius		Who deserves greatness Deserves your hate... Hang ye! Trust ye? With every minute you do change your mind, And call him noble that was now your hate, Him vile that was your garland. He continues along the crowd, his cold eyes taking in face
martius		What's the matter, That in these several places of the city You cry against the noble Senate, who, Under the gods, keep you in awe, which
else		Would feed on one another? He stops and glares at the mob with seething anger. He climbs back onto his horse. Stares down at them.
martius		Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS! A tense beat. The riot police shift nervously. The crowd is unsure. The TV news crew films everything.
menenius		These are almost thoroughly persuaded; For though abundantly they lack discretion, Yet are they passing cowardly.
martius		They are dissolved. Hang 'em. Senator Menenius watches the crowd. Disturbed.
menenius		I would they were abed.
martius		I would they were in Tiber. They move off.
cominius		The news is the Volsces are in arms. An aide presses a remote. Grainy video images play on a monitor: Volscian soldiers, jeeps, tanks. One section shows a quick image of the rebel leader, a striking man called Tullus Aufidius, riding past in a jeep.
cominius		They have a leader, Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to it.
martius		I sin in envying his nobility, And were I any thing but what I am, I would wish me only he.
senator		You have fought together?
martius		He is a lion That I am proud to hunt. Martius takes the remote control. Stops the video. Rewinds to the unclear image of Aufidius.
martius		Titus Lartius, thou Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
titus		Lead you on. Martius rewinds and plays the image of Aufidius again, rewinds and plays it again, almost obsessively. We push in on the video image of Aufidius... Aufidius appears to be staring right back at Martius... And this takes us to...
volsce politician		So, your opinion is, Aufidius, That they of Rome are entered in our
counsels		And know how we proceed.
volsce officer		We never yet made doubt but Rome was
ready		To answer us.
volsce politician		And it is rumored Martius, your old enemy, leads in their preparation. He tosses a glossy magazine on the desk, a picture of Martius on the cover. Aufidius' eyes spark at the image of Martius. He picks up the magazine and carefully tears off the cover picture of Martius, looking at the picture deeply. He continues with a strange and grim fire:
aufidius		If we and Caius Martius chance to meet, 'Tis sworn between us we shall ever
strike		Till one can do no more. By the elements, If ever again I meet him beard to beard, He's mine or I am his.
volumnia		I pray you, daughter, sing, or express yourself in a more comfortable sort. If my son were my husband, I should more freely rejoice in that absence wherein he won honor than in the embracements of his bed where he would show most love. She moves across the room to fetch a cigarette. She moves, always, with stately grace. She walks past a series of photographs. They tell the story of Martius' life: the happy baby; the stern dead father; the rigid young military cadet; the formal wedding; the restrained and unsmiling adult. In the photos we sense a transformation: innocent boy to experienced, severe looking soldier. Volumnia is present in most of the pictures.
volumnia		When yet he was but tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, I, considering how honor would become such a person, was pleased to let him seek danger where he was like to find fame. She lights her cigarette.
volumnia		To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he returned, his brows bound with oak.
virgilia		But had he died in the business, madam, how then?
volumnia		Then his good report should have been my son.  not to Virgilia.
maid		Madam, Senator Menenius is come to visit you.
volumnia		Tell Menenius we are fit to bid him welcome. The Maid goes.
virgilia		Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
volumnia		Indeed, you shall not! She turns off the TV and goes to a bar to mix drinks. She mixes the drinks aggressively, strangely inspired by the discussion of war:
volumnia		Methinks I hear hither your husband's
brow		Then wiping, forth he goes.
virgilia		His bloody brow? 0 Jupiter, no blood...
volumnia		Away, you fool! It more becomes a man Than gold his trophy.
virgilia		Heavens bless my lord from fell Auf idius ...
volumnia		He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee And tread upon his neck. Senator Menenius enters, he is comfortable in this house and an old ally of Volumnia's.
menenius		My ladies both, good day to you. Volumnia hands him one of the drinks she has been mixing: a perfect martini. She knows how he takes his drink. She is not above flirting with him when it suits her ends.
menenius		How do you both?
virgilia		I thank you, sir; well, good.
volumnia		He had rather play with swords and hear a drum than look upon his schoolmaster.
menenius		On my word, the father's son! He and Volumnia laugh. Menenius has sensed Virgilia's tension. Tries to cheer her:
menenius		Come, I must have you play the idle housewife with me this afternoon.
virgilia		No, good sir, I will not out of doors.
menenius		Not out of doors!
volumnia		She shall, she shall.
virgilia		Indeed, no, by your patience. I'll not over the threshold till my lord return from the wars.
menenius		Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably.
virgilia		I cannot go hither.
virgilia		No, good sir, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
menenius		Go with me and I'll tell you excellent news of your husband.
virgilia		0, good sir, there can be none yet.
menenius		There came news from him last night. Volumnia pounces, moving in:
volumnia		Indeed?
menenius		Your lord and Titus Lartius are set down before the Volscian city of Corioles. They nothing doubt prevailing and to make it brief wars This is true, on mine honor; and so, I pray, go out with us.
martius		They fear us not, but issue forth their city. Sniper bullets slam into a wall near him. He coughs away the smoke and debris. This only makes him more angry:
martius		They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts, Which makes me sweat with wrath! He that retires, I'll take him for a Volsce, And he shall feel mine edge! Martius leaps up and races on. The others follow in military order. The Roman soldiers move along the street -- it is chaotic -- explosions, smoke and sniper fire -- they duck into doorways and behind abandoned cars -- returning fire as best they can-- Martius leads -- firing stead bursts from his machine gun-- It is slow and bloody going-- Finally the Romans turn a corner and are stopped by a roadblock: a burning bus that fills the entire street-- The Volsces use this roadblock to ambush the Roman soldiers-- We see glimpses of Volscian soldiers darting for position -- firing from rooftops and from inside shops--
martius		You souls of geese, That bear the shapes of men! PLUTO AND
pale		With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home, Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave
martius		Look to it. Come on!
titus		What is become of Martius?
soldier 1		Slain, sir, doubtless.
soldier 2		He is himself alone, To answer all the city.
titus		Thou art lost, Martius... Titus has no time to mourn. He looks over the hopeless situation. Scanning the rooftops, windows and shops. Then he stops He sees something Past the burning bus Through the smoke and flames... He glimpses a ghostly figure...
titus		Who's yonder, That does appear as he were flayed? 0 gods! He has the stamp of Martius. It is indeed Martius. A shocking sight. Drenched head-to-toe in blood. His face splattered with gore. His eyes wild. Lost in something like rapture.
martius		Come I too late?! Come I too late?!
titus		Ay, if you come not in the blood of others, But mantled in your own. Martius laughs wildly and embraces Titus, who comes away splattered with blood:
martius		0, let me clip ye In arms as sound as when I wooed, in
heart		As merry as when our nuptial day was done! SUDDENLY -- a deafening explosion -- and RPG EXPLODING from nearby. Then gunfire. Bullets shatter windows. The Volscians are attacking again. The Romans instantly begin diving for cover and taking up
martius		There is the man of my soul's hate--
titus		Worthy sir, thou bleeds. Thy exercise hath been too violent For a second course of fight.
martius		Sir, praise me not. My work hath yet not warmed me. The blood I drop is more medicinal Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus I will appear and fight. He turns to some soldiers, imploring them to join him. His bloody visage and intensity are strangely inspiring, his
painting		Wherein you see me smeared; if any fear Lesser his person than an ill report; If any think brave death outweighs bad life, And that his country's dearer than
martius		I'll fight with none but thee, for I do hate thee.
aufidius		We hate alike. Then Martius does something astounding. He holds out his arms to his sides and drops his weapons. They clatter down. Aufidius does the same. The Roman and Volscian soldiers watch. None daring to interfere. Martius and Aufidius continue to glare at each other -- dropping weapons -- disarming -- Martius climbing up the stairs, Aufidius coming down -- moving closer and closer-- At an instant- They slam together- Fighting without weapons-- Grappling brutally. Tearing at each other. Twining together. Fingers grasping. Teeth snapping. Hands pulling. It is a bloody, terrible, graceless struggle.
cominius		If I should tell thee over this thy day's work, Thou would not believe thy deeds. Martius is barely listening. His attention is on a YOUNG SOLDIER across the room. The Young Soldier is injured, pale and thirsty. Dying.
cominius		But I'll report it Where Senators shall mingle tears with
gods		Our Rome hath such a soldier."
titus		Rome must know The value of her own. It were a
concealment		Worse than a theft, To hide your doings.
martius		I have some wounds upon me, and they
smart		To hear themselves remembered. The surgeon finishes stitching Martius' arm. Starts to clean another wound.
cominius		Should they not, Well might they fester against
ingratitude		Too modest are you. Impatient, Martius rises, painfully and slowly. He takes his canteen and crosses to the Young Soldier. Gives his canteen to the boy. The Young Soldier drinks. His deep, sad eyes gaze up at Martius. Martius watches as... The Young Soldier dies. The light goes from his eyes. His head hangs awkwardly. His boyish face is leaden. Martius suddenly finds himself exhausted. Morally and physically spent.
perceive		Whether I blush or no Howbeit, thank you. Martius stares at the dead soldier.
aufidius		Five times, Martius, I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me, And would do so, I think, should we
encounter		As often as we eat. He becomes aware some of his men are looking at him, disturbed at his fervor.
for where		I thought to crush him in an equal force, True sword to sword, I'll stab him some way, Or wrath -- or craft -- may get him.
soldier		He's the devil.
aufidius		Bolder, though not so subtle. A beat. Aufidius continues with prayer-like intensity:
aufidius		My valor, poisoned with him, Shall fly out of itself ... Nor sleep, nor sanctuary, being naked, Sick, the prayers of priests, Nor times of sacrifice, Shall lift up their rotten privilege And custom, Against my hate to Martius. In the shattered glass of the minivan window, Aufidius suddenly sees himself. He studies his own face, nurturing his dark thoughts.
aufidius		Where I find him, were it At home, upon my brother's guard, even there, Will I wash my fierce hand in his heart.
sicinius		Was ever man so proud as is this Martius?
cassius		He has no equal.
sicinius		When we were chosen Tribunes for the
brutus		Marked you his lip and eyes?
sicinius		Nay, but his taunts. They see Senator Menenius approaching. Sicinius nods to Cassius, who quickly goes. Menenius stops by on his way out. He is jolly, knowing the victory will assure his protege's political future:
menenius		The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.
brutus		Good or bad?
menenius		Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Martius.
sicinius		Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
menenius		You blame Martius for being proud?
brutus		We do it not alone, sir. Subtly, the polite chit-chat is turning more serious and pointed; Menenius growing sharper. The gloves are coming off.
menenius		I know you can do very little alone You talk of pride: 0 that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks, and make but an interior survey of your good selves! 0 that you could!
brutus		What then, sir?
menenius		Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome. The saturnine Sicinius' response seems almost a threat:
sicinius		Menenius, you are known well enough too.
menenius		I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying water in it; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning. What I think I utter, and spend my malice in my breath.
brutus		Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
menenius		You know neither me, yourselves nor anything You are ambitious. A tense beat. They are formidable adversaries.
menenius		Good-e'en to your worships. More of your conversation would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians I will be bold to take my leave of you. He goes. The Tribunes watch him cut through the lunch crowd and exit.
volumnia		Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches! For the love of Juno, let's go.
menenius		Is he not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded.
virgilia		0, no, no, no...
menenius		So do I too -- if it be not too much. Brings a victory in his pocket, the wounds become him. Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
volumnia		Titus Lartius says they fought together, but Aufidius got off.
virgilia		In truth, there's wondrous things spoke of him. Gods grant them true.
volumnia		 True?!
menenius		I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded? Volumnia and Menenius now gleefully add up her son's wounds like accountants -- or campaign managers.
volumnia		In the shoulder and in the left arm. There will be large scars to show the people, when he shall stand for his place He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts in the body.
menenius		One in the neck, and two in the thigh - there's nine that I know.
volumnia		He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.
menenius		Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an enemy's grave. We focus on Volumnia's face as she thinks about her son.
before him		He carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears. Death, that dark spirit, in his nervy arm
cominius		Be it known, As to us, to all the world, that Caius
martius		Wears this war's garland And from this time, For what he did before Corioles, call him, With all the applause and clamor of the host, "Caius Martius Coriolanus!"
soldiers		Caius Martius Coriolanus! Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius gestures for him to speak into the microphones. He tersely does so:
coriolanus		No more of this; it does offend my heart. Pray now, no more. An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the
cominius		Look, sir, your mother.
volumnia		Nay, my good soldier, up.  My gentle Martius, worthy Caius, and By deed-achieving honor newly named - What is it? - Coriolanus must I call thee? She laughs coquettishly, thoroughly upstaging her son. Then, almost an afterthought:
volumnia		But, 0, thy wife... Coriolanus greets Virgilia with the clumsy and stiff formality that marks their marriage.
coriolanus		My gracious silence, hail. An awkwardly tender kiss. He notes her tears. Reacts coldly.
coriolanus		Would thou have laughed had I come coffined home, That weeps to see me triumph? Ay, my dear, Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear, And mothers that lack sons.
menenius		Now, the gods crown thee!
coriolanus		 And live you yet?
menenius		A hundred thousand welcomes! Coriolanus is surrounded by well-wishers and political admirers. Volumnia and Menenius usher him along. We see the image from TV: The noble warrior returned home. Devoted family. Flags waving. The future golden.
coriolanus		The good Senators must be visited; From whom I have received not only greetings, But with them change of honors. He shifts painfully as she continues to treat one of his wounds.
volumnia		I have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy. Only There's one thing wanting, which I doubt
not but		Our Rome will cast upon thee. He catches her eye in the mirror, very firm:
coriolanus		Know, good mother, I had rather be their servant in my way, Than sway with them in theirs. They stop when-- Virgilia enters. She stops in the doorway. It is embarrassing for her, as if she has interrupted two lovers. A long moment. She looks to her husband. To Volumnia. They stare back. There is no way she can compete with their intimacy. Surrendering, she silently goes.
sicinius		He cannot temperately transport his honors, but will Lose those he hath won.
brutus		I heard him swear, Were he to stand for Consul, never would
he		Appear in the marketplace nor Showing, as the manner is, his wounds To the people, beg "their stinking breaths."
sicinius		It was his word.
brutus		So it must fall out with him, Or our authorities at an end.
sicinius		We must suggest to the people in what
hatred		He still hath held them.
menenius		Therefore, please you, Most reverend and grave elders, to desire The present Consul, and last general In our well-found successes, to report A little of that worthy work performed By Caius Martius Coriolanus.
senator		Speak, good Cominius. General Cominius rises and moves to the podium. But then Coriolanus abruptly stands--
menenius		Nay, keep your place.
senator		Sit, Coriolanus. Never shame to hear What you have nobly done.
coriolanus		Your honors' pardon. I had rather have my wounds to heal again Than hear say how I got them.
menenius		Pray now, sit down.
coriolanus		I had rather have one scratch my head in
the sun		When the alarum were struck than idly sit To hear my nothings monstered. Coriolanus moves across the dais and exits into a hallway. The door shuts after him. Menenius sighs. Nods to Cominius. Cominius moves to the podium and begins to read his speech from a Teleprompter. This all has the rehearsed quality of a campaign nomination speech.
cominius		The deeds of Coriolanus Should not be uttered feebly. It is held That valor is the chiefest virtue, and Most dignifies the haver. Alone he
entered		The mortal gate of the city, And struck Corioles like a planet, From face to foot He was a thing of blood... Brutus and Sicinius exchange a glance, bored by the political boilerplate.
menenius		The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased To make thee Consul! Menenius steps back. A beat. Coriolanus stares at the Senators. At the TV cameras. He leans awkwardly into the podium microphone:
coriolanus		I do owe them still My life and services. A beat. For an acceptance speech, rather terse. Menenius jumps in to salvage the moment:
menenius		It then remains That you do speak to the people.
coriolanus		I do beseech you, Let me overleap that custom, for I cannot
entreat them		For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage. Please you that I may pass this doing. From the Senate floor, Sicinius jumps on this:
sicinius		Sir, the people Must have their voices!
menenius		 Pray you, go fit you to the custom.
coriolanus		It is a part That I shall blush in acting, and might
well		Be taken from the people. Menenius quickly turns off Coriolanus' microphone.
coriolanus		To brag unto them "Thus I did, and thus!" Show them the unaching scars which I should hide, As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only! Menenius sees Coriolanus is getting angry, this could be disastrous. He elegantly gestures for Cominius to escort Coriolanus out immediately -- as he addresses the Senators and TV cameras:
menenius		To our noble Consul Wish we all joy and honor! He applauds. The applause is taken up by the Senators. Some cheering as well for the hero of Rome The two Tribunes, however, are already whispering maliciously to other Senators. Menenius seems pleased with the general response. So far, so good.
menenius		Have you not known The worthiest men have done it?
menenius		O me, the gods! You must not speak like that. You must
desire them		To think upon you--
coriolanus		"Think upon me"? Hang 'em! I would they would forget me.
menenius		You'll mar all! The limo stops. They are at the marketplace. The moment has come. Menenius takes a breath. Urges calm:
menenius		Pray you, speak to them, I pray you, In wholesome manner.
cassius		We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to it.
coriolanus		Mine own desert.
tamora		Your own desert?
coriolanus		Ay, but not mine own desire.
tamora		How not your own desire?
coriolanus		No, it was never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.
cassius		You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you.
coriolanus		Well then, I pray, your price of the Consulship?
war vet		The price is to ask it kindly.
coriolanus		Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private Your good voice, sir. What say you?
coriolanus		A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu. Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on. Cassius is not convinced.
cassius		But this is something odd. Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them:
coriolanus		Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be Consul.
jamaican woman		You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.
coriolanus		Your enigma?
jamaican woman		You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends You have not indeed loved the common people.
coriolanus		You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love Therefore, beseech you, I may be Consul.
shopkeeper		We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily.
jamaican woman		You have received many wounds for your country.
coriolanus		I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.
jamaican woman		The gods give you joy, sir, heartily! Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares
coriolanus		Your voices! For your voices I have
bear		Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice
six		I have seen and heard of! A crowd is gathering. We note Brutus and Sicinius in the crowd. Menenius, too, has moved in.
coriolanus		For your voices Have done many things, some less, some more. Your voices! Indeed, I would be Consul.
war vet		He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice!
jamaican woman		The gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people! The Citizens applaud and give their support:
citizens		Amen, amen. God save thee, noble Consul!
coriolanus		Worthy voices! Menenius, with Brutus and Sicinius, goes to him:
menenius		You have stood your limitation, and the
tribunes		Endue you with the people's voice.
coriolanus		Is this done?
sicinius		The custom of request you have discharged. The people do admit you, and are summoned To meet anon upon your approbation.
coriolanus		Where? At the Senate?
sicinius		There, Coriolanus.
menenius		I'll keep you company.
sicinius		How now, my masters! Have you chose this man?
brutus		We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
tamora		Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice, He mocked us when he begged our voices.
certainly		He flouted us downright.
jamaican woman		No, it is his kind of speech; he did not mock us.
sicinius		Why, so he did, I am sure.
tamora		No, no! No one saw them!
cassius		 Was not this mockery? Brutus presses hard:
brutus		When he had no power, But was a petty servant to the state, He was your enemy, ever spake against Your liberties.
sicinius		Did you perceive He did solicit you in free contempt When he did need your loves, and do you
think		That his contempt shall not be bruising
to you		When he hath power to crush?
cassius		He's not confirmed; we may deny him yet!
tamora		And will deny him! I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
cassius		I twice five hundred and their friends! The crowd roars approval. A frightening, animal sound.
sicinius		Let them assemble, And on a safer judgment all revoke Your ignorant election.
brutus		Enforce his pride, And his old hate unto you!
sicinius		And presently, when you have drawn your number, Repair to the Capitol.
cassius		We will so!
tamora		We will so! All Repent in their election! Cassius and Tamora lead the crowd. It is a terrifying spectacle of sudden mob rage, only a razor-thin edge to violence. Brutus and Sicinius watch, satisfied, like Robespierre and Saint Just looking over the bloody guillotine.
titus		He has, my lord.
coriolanus		Saw you Aufidius?
titus		He is retired to Antium.
coriolanus		Spoke he of me?
titus		He did, my lord.
coriolanus		How? What?
titus		How often he had met you, sword to sword; That of all things upon the earth he
hated		Your person most.
coriolanus		At Antium lives he?
titus		At Antium.
coriolanus		I wish I had a cause to seek him there, To oppose his hatred fully. They hear the growing rumble of a crowd. Curious. They continue on and turn a corner to...
sicinius		Pass no further.
coriolanus		Ha! What is that?
brutus		It will be dangerous to go on. No further.
coriolanus		What makes this change?
menenius		The matter?
cominius		Hath he not passed the nobles and the commons?
brutus		Cominius, no. Coriolanus steps closer to Brutus. The mob sees him through the glass doors. The tension immediately increases.
coriolanus		Have I had children's voices?
titus		Tribunes, give way.
brutus		The people are incensed against him.
coriolanus		(glancing to the growing
menenius		Be calm, be calm.
brutus		The people cry you mocked them, and of late called them Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
coriolanus		But this was known before.
sicinius		You show too much of that For which the people stir. If you will
pass		To where you are bound, you must inquire your way. The crowd outside is growing restless, sensing and responding to the building tension. The police try to hold them back, keeping them away from the doors. The crowd presses in. We see Cassius and Tamora at the forefront, urging the crowd on.
menenius		Let's be calm--
cominius		The people are abused, set on--
menenius		Not now, not now--
titus		Not in this heat, sir-- Coriolanus strides angrily toward the doors and exits-- The others follow--
coriolanus		My nobler friends, I crave their pardons. For the mutable, rank-scented crowd, Let them regard me as I do not flatter, And therein behold themselves. I say again, In soothing them, we nourish against our
senate		The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition, Which we ourselves have ploughed for, sowed, and scattered, By mingling them with us!
menenius		Well, no more!
titus		No more words, we beseech you-- The mob has surrounded them all by now. The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from the unruly crowd to the volatile men. This all has the potential of sparking to violence. We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some of this footage.
brutus		 You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity.
sicinius		It were well we let the people know it.
coriolanus		Were I as patient as the midnight sleep, By Jove, it would be my mind!
sicinius		It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is, Not poison any further.
you		His absolute "shall"?
brutus		Why, should the people give One that speaks thus their voice?
coriolanus		I'll give my reasons, More worthier than their voices! Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and continues the attack:
coriolanus		By Jove himself, It makes the consuls base; and my soul
aches		To know, when two authorities are up, Neither supreme, how soon confusion, May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other. The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them:
coriolanus		Thus we debase the nature of our seats, and make the rabble Call our cares fears; which will in time Break ope the locks of the Senate, and
bring in		The crows to peck the eagles!
menenius		Come, enough!
brutus		Enough, with over-measure.
sicinius		 He has spoken like a traitor, and shall
answer		As traitors do! At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is
coriolanus		Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee!
brutus		Manifest treason!
sicinius		This is a Consul? No!
coriolanus		Hence, old goat! Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside-- At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle
menenius		On both sides more respect!
sicinius		 Here's he that would take from you all your power! The crowd reacts angrily -- surging forward against the restraint of the police. We see grim RIOT POLICE marching into position. The crowd is not intimidated, they are spoiling for a fight. The Tribunes provoke the crowd even more, escalating and building the fever:
brutus		You are at point to lose your liberties! Martius would have all from you, Martius, Whom late you have named for Consul.
sicinius		What is the city but the people?!
tamora		True! The people are the city!
sicinius		We do here pronounce, upon the part of the people, Martius is worthy of present DEATH! A huge roar from the mob. Panic and violence building. Fast
brutus		Guards, seize him!
coriolanus		No, I'll die here!
brutus		Lay hands upon him!
menenius		Go, get you to your house! Be gone, away! All will be naught else--
cominius		Come, sir, along with us-- They hurry Coriolanus away-- The Riot Police, outnumbered, start firing TEAR GAS into the
sicinius		Consul! What Consul?
menenius		The Consul Coriolanus.
brutus		He Consul?!
sicinius		It is decreed He dies tonight.
tamora		He's a disease that must be cut away.
menenius		0, he's a limb that has but a disease: Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy. What has he done to Rome that's worth his death? Eh? Killing our enemies?! He sees that his words are having some effect, he presses the
menenius		The blood he hath lost -- He dropped it for his country. Some in the room murmur agreement.
brutus		We'll hear no more--
menenius		Consider this: he has been bred in the
wars		Since he could draw a sword, and is ill
schooled		In graceful language Give me leave, I'll go to him, and undertake to bring
him		Where he shall answer by a lawful form, In peace, to his utmost peril.
another senator		The other course Will prove too bloody, and the end of it Unknown to the beginning. Sicinius is about to retort when Brutus stops him. Brutus assents, assuming the voice of reason:
brutus		Be you then as the people's officer. Menenius and Coriolanus' supporters are relieved.
brutus		If you bring not Martius, we'll proceed In our first way.
menenius		I'll bring him to you. He goes quickly. Brutus turns to Sicinius and Tamora and begins to quietly explain his plan.
coriolanus		Let them pull all about mine ears,
present me		Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels, Yet will I still be thus to them--!
coriolanus		 I talk of you! Why did you wish me milder? Would you
have me		False to my nature? Rather say I play The man I am! She is equally tough with him, not giving an inch, snapping
volumnia		0, sir, sir, sir, I would have had you put your power well on, Before you had worn it out.
coriolanus		Let go!
volumnia		You might have been enough the man you are, With striving less to be so!
coriolanus		Let them hang!
volumnia		Av, and burn too! Her outraged fury matches his. Overpowers his.
volumnia		Pray, be counseled. I have a heart as little apt as yours, But yet a brain that leads my use of
anger		To better vantage.
menenius		Well said, noble woman!
coriolanus		What must I do?
menenius		Return to the Tribunes.
coriolanus		Well, what then? What then?
menenius		Repent what you have spoke.
coriolanus		For them? I cannot do it to the gods. Must I then do it to them?
volumnia		You are too absolute, Though therein you can never be too noble.
coriolanus		 Why force you this? She pursues him:
volumnia		Because that now it lies you on to speak To the people, not by your own instruction, Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you, But with such words that are but
rehearsed in		Your tongue, though but bastards and
syllables		Of no allowance to your bosom's truth... She moves closer to him. Her voice lower. A sort of seduction.
volumnia		I would dissemble with my nature where My fortunes and my friends at stake
required		I should do so in honor... She is very close now. Whispering. She touches him gently, like a lover.
volumnia		I am in this your wife, your son, These senators, the nobles And you. A long beat. All are silent, watching her spin her web.
volumnia		I prithee now, my son, Go and say to them Thou art their soldier, and being bred in
broils		Has not the soft way In asking their good loves; but thou wilt
frame		Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs.
menenius		This but done, even as she speaks, Why their hearts were yours.
volumnia		Prithee now, Go, and be ruled...  Although I know thou hadst rather Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf Than flatter him in a bower. Coriolanus smiles. A genuinely sweet moment between them. Cominius enters with several other political supporters.
cominius		Sir, it is fit You make strong party, or defend yourself By calmness or by absence. All's in anger.
menenius		Only fair speech.
cominius		I think it will serve, if he Can thereto frame his spirit.
volumnia		He must -- and will.
his		That hath charity received! The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking
coriolanus		I will not do it! Lest I cease to honor mine own truth And by my body's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness. Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder that dwarfs his:
volumnia		At thy choice, then! To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than
fear		Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at
death		With as biq heart as thou! Do as you like! The words echo. It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes.
coriolanus		Pray, be content... Mother, I am going, chide me no more. He awaits her approval. She will not yet grant it.
coriolanus		Look, I am going... Commend me to my wife. I'll return Consul, Or never trust to what my tongue can do In the way of flattery further. She graciously bows to him.
volumnia		Do your will. Then she kisses him. And she goes. Like a queen. Volumnia triumphant. Always. Then a shocking hard cut to:
affects		Tyrannical power. If he evade us there, Enforce him with his envy to the people.
tamora		I have; it's ready.
sicinius		When the people hear me say "It shall be
so		In the right and strength of the Commons," be it either For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them, If I say "Fine," cry "Fine!" - if "Death," cry "Death!"
tamora		We shall inform them.
arm yourself		To answer mildly, for they are prepared With accusations, as I hear, more strong Than are upon you yet.
coriolanus		The word is "mildly." Pray you, let us go. Let them accuse me by invention, I Will answer in mine honor.
menenius		Ay, but mildly.
coriolanus		Well, mildly be it then. Mildly! Coriolanus steels himself as they emerge from between the stands and head toward the set. TV news crews are waiting. Blinding lights snap on. The crowd, on seeing Coriolanus, lets out a ROAR. Deafening and savage. We see Cassius and Tamora moving through the crowd, instigating, convincing, imploring. Coriolanus ignores it all. Imperious to the end. Brutus and Sicinius wait on the set.
brutus		 Put him to choler straight. Coriolanus and his supporters move to the stage. Coriolanus glares at the Tribunes. The TV crews take up position. Menenius gestures for Coriolanus to step to the microphone, whispering to him:
menenius		Calmly, I do beseech you. Coriolanus steps to the microphone. Brutus gestures for the crowd to quiet down. We see bits of this scene through the monitors on the TV cameras. When the crowd is silent, Coriolanus begins to make a
coriolanus		The honored gods-- But his voice echoes badly with reverb. Menenius adjusts the microphone. Coriolanus begins again, quickly and by rote:
coriolanus		The honored gods Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of
justice		Supplied with worthy men. Plant love among us. Throng our large temples with the shows of peace, And not our streets with war.
cominius		Amen, amen.
menenius		A noble wish. His boilerplate speech over, Coriolanus turns to Sicinius who is at the other standing microphone:
coriolanus		Shall I be charged no further than this present? Must all determine here?
sicinius		I do demand, If you submit you to the people's voices.
coriolanus		I am content.
menenius		Lo, citizens, he says he is content. The warlike service he has done,
show		Like graves in the holy churchyard.
coriolanus		 Scratches with briers, Scars to move laughter only.
menenius		Consider further, That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier. Do not take His rougher accents for malicious sounds, But, as I say, such as become a soldier. Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him:
coriolanus		What is the matter That being passed for Consul with full voice, I am so dishonored that the very hour You take it off again?
sicinius		We charge you that you have contrived to
take		From Rome all seasoned office, and to
wind		Yourself into a power tyrannical
coriolanus		How? Traitor?!
coriolanus		The fires in the lowest hell fold in the people! Call me their traitor, thou injurious Tribune!
brutus		But since he hath Served well for Rome--
brutus		I talk of that, that know it.
coriolanus		You?! I'll know no further. Let them pronounce death, exile, Flaying, pent to linger But with a grain a day - I would not buy Their mercy at the price of one fair word!
sicinius		In the name of the people And in the power of us the Tribunes, we, Even from this instant, banish him our city! In the people's name, I say IT SHALL BE SO! Well-rehearsed by Cassius and Tamora, many in the crowd respond with a fierce cry:
crowd		It shall be so! It shall be so! Let him away!
tamora		He's banished! IT SHALL BE SO!
crowd		It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...! Cassius and Tamora keep the crowd at a fever pitch-- They keep chanting and railing-- A building seismic rumble--
sicinius		He's sentenced. No more hearing.
cominius		Let me speak! The crowd's fury is building-- It is all about to erupt--
brutus		There's no more to be said, but he is
banished		As enemy to the people and his country.
crowd		It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...!
coriolanus		Whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens, whose loves I
prize		As the dead carcasses of unburied men That do corrupt my air... 
coriolanus		Here remain with your uncertainty. Let every feeble rumor shake your hearts! Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes, Fan you into despair! Have the power
still		To banish your defenders, till at length Your ignorance - which finds not till it feels,
coriolanus		Despising, For you, the city, thus I turn my back. He turns and slowly walks toward one of the tunnels leading from the studio. The crowd follows every step with their eyes. He stops. Turns back. Steel.
coriolanus		There is a world elsewhere. And he goes down the tunnel. Disappearing from view. A silent beat. Then, a chilling cry of absolutely Jacobin bloodlust from the
tamora		The people's enemy is gone! The crowd SCREAMS their approval. The SAVAGE CRY echoes around the studio. The echoing roar takes us to...
the beast		With many heads butts me away.
coriolanus		Nay, mother, Where is your ancient courage?
volumnia		Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome, And occupations perish!
coriolanus		Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am lacked. She nods to him, she has regained her composure.
titus		Farewell, Martius.
coriolanus		Thou old and true Menenius, Thy tears are salter than a younger man's, And venomous to thine eyes.
coriolanus		You shall hear from me still. He turns and looks to the distance. Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation.
coriolanus		I go alone, Like to a lonely dragon. He strides off. The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier. Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long highway away from Rome. The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind. We fade to...
brutus		Here comes his mother.
sicinius		 Let's not meet her. They say she's mad. Volumnia stalks up to them:
volumnia		0, you're well met. The hoarded plague of
the gods		Requite your love! The Tribunes try to leave, she won't let them:
volumnia		Will you be gone?
virgilia		You shall stay too. I would I had the
power		To say so to my husband.
sicinius		Are you mad?
volumnia		Ay, fool, is that a shame? Note but this,
rome		Than thou hast spoken words?
sicinius		 0 blessed heavens... Volumnia is creating a scene. Heads are turning. She continues her attack on Sicinius, but is distracted and
volumnia		More noble blows than ever thou wise words, And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what -
my son		Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him, His good sword in his hand.
sicinius		What then?
virgilia		What then? He'd make an end of thy posterity.
volumnia		Bastards and all. Menenius has entered the bar, seeing the trouble he goes to them, tries to calm Volumnia:
menenius		Come, come, peace...
brutus		Pray, let us go. He tries to leave the bar. Volumnia stops him for final attack, something like a curse in its power:
volumnia		Now, pray, sir, get you gone. You have done a brave deed. Ere you go,
brutus		Well, well, we'll leave you.
sicinius		Why stay we to be baited With one that wants her wits?
volumnia		I would the gods had nothing else to do But to confirm my curses! Menenius gently restrains Volumnia and the Tribunes finally escape the bar. Volumnia takes a breath, controls herself.
volumnia		Could I meet 'em But once a day, it would unclog my heart Of what lies heavy to it.
menenius		You have told them home; And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me? She turns to him. A cold and killing fire in her eyes.
volumnia		Anger's my meat. I sup upon myself, And so shall starve with feeding. She takes Virgilia's hand and drags her out. Menenius watches. Saddened. Once proud Volumnia, reduced to this.
aufidius		Whence comes thou? What wouldst thou? Thy name? Coriolanus does not respond.
aufidius		Speak, man! What's thy name?
coriolanus		A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears, And harsh in sound to thine. The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers, rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus. He doesn't move a muscle. Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men off.
aufidius		Say, what's thy name? Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy name?
coriolanus		Know'st thou me yet?
aufidius		I know thee not Thy name? Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is exposed. The Volscians are stunned.
coriolanus		My name is Caius Martius, who hath done To thee particularly and to all the
volsces		Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness
may		My surname Coriolanus. The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered.
coriolanus		Only that name remains. Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains:
coriolanus		The cruelty and envy of the people, Who have all forsook me, hath devoured the rest, And suffered me by the voice of slaves to
world		I would have avoided thee, but in mere spite, To be full quit of those my banishers, Stand I before thee here. Coriolanus dares to take a step toward Aufidius-- The Volscians react. Guns are raised, fingers tight on triggers, an instant from opening fire-- Coriolanus carefully holds out his arms. He's unarmed. Aufidius nods to his men. They hold their fire. Coriolanus slowly crosses the room toward Aufidius. Step by step. Their eyes are locked. Nothing else in the world exists.
coriolanus		I will fight Against my cankered country with the
spleen		Of all the under fiends. But if thou Dares not this, then I present My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice... Coriolanus stops right in front of Aufidius and slowly, carefully, undoes his collar. Exposing his naked throat. Bending back his head. Ready for execution.
coriolanus		Which not to cut would show thee but a fool, Since I have ever followed thee with hate, And cannot live but to thy shame unless It be to do thee service. A long beat. Aufidius stares at Coriolanus. The Volscians watch, eyes wide, too tense to do anything now.
aufidius		O Martius Martius Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart A root of ancient envy. He offers his hand. Coriolanus takes it. Aufidius continues to hold him by the hand, rather intensely, speaking low:
aufidius		Let me twine Mine arms about that body. He embraces Coriolanus. Aufidius' men finally relax. Weapons are lowered. Relieved glances exchanged. Some of the Volscians, though, are clearly suspicious of Coriolanus. They watch Aufidius and Coriolanus, concerned. Aufidius still can't quite believe his ancient enemy is now his newest ally.
know thou		I loved the maid I married; never man Sighed truer breath. But that I see thee here, Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt
heart		Than when I first my wedded mistress saw Bestride my threshold. Coriolanus glances to him, perhaps a little disturbed or embarrassed by the intensity of Aufidius' words. Aufidius steps away from him, gestures for Coriolanus to sit.
aufidius		Why, thou Mars, I tell thee, We have a power on foot, and I had
purpose		Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
me out		Twelve several times, and I have nightly
since		Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me. Aufidius continues quietly, almost whispering:
aufidius		Worthy Martius, Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that Thou art thence banished, we would muster
all		From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome, Like a bold flood, overbear it.
aufidius		0, come, go in, And take our friendly senators by the hands. Coriolanus shakes hands with the politicians:
coriolanus		You bless me, gods. Then Aufidius takes him to a huge military map laid out on a pool table. Rome and her territories. Strategic markers denote Roman forces and Volscian forces.
aufidius		Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou
wilt have		The leading of thine own revenges, take The one half of my commission. The Volscian soldiers and politicos are shocked. Aufidius is giving Coriolanus command of half his forces!
aufidius		And set down--- As best thou art experienced, since thou
knows		Thy country's strength and weakness--- thine own ways, Whether to knock against the gates of Rome, Or rudely visit them in parts remote, To fright them ere destroy. Aufidius looks at Coriolanus hard. There it is. The gauntlet is thrown down. Coriolanus will have to completely betray Rome: expose her military weaknesses, tell her secrets. For all his neurotic intensity, Aufidius is a shrewd man. Coriolanus nods and turns to the battle map, moving various markers around to show Rome's defensive positions. Aufidius watches him with Machiavellian calm.
brutus		Is this Menenius?
sicinius		'Tis he,'tis he! 0, he is grown most kind of late. Hail sir!
menenius		Hail to you both.
your coriolanus		Is not much missed, but with his friends.
menenius		All's well, and might have been much
better if		He could have temporized.
sicinius		Where is he, hear you?
menenius		Nay, I hear nothing. His mother and his
wife		Hear nothing from him.
brutus		Caius Martius was A worthy officer in the war, but insolent, Overcome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
menenius		I think not so.
sicinius		And Rome sits safe and still without him. They are distracted when people begin talking loudly, alarmed, at the bar. They hush each other and watch the TV over the bar. Something has happened. On the TV: a SPECIAL REPORT. Breaking News. A scroll across the bottom of the screen reads "The Volscians On The March?"
powers		Are entered in the Roman territories, And with the deepest malice of the war Destroy what lies before them...
menenius		'Tis Aufidius, Who, hearing of our Martius' banishment, Thrusts forth his horns again into the world.
brutus		It cannot be the Volsces dare break with us.
coming		That turns their countenances...  Yes, the first report is seconded, and more, More fearful, is delivered. The TV picture switches to a flustered TV REPORTER outside the Senate. A lot of nervous activity behind him.
and took		What lay before them.
aufidius		Do they still fly to Coriolanus?
lieutenant		I do not know what witchcraft's in him,
but		Your soldiers use him as the grace before meat, Their talk at table, and their thanks at end. And you are darkened in this action, sir.
aufidius		He bears himself more proud, Even to my person, than I thought he
would		When first I did embrace him. They turn and walk to the building where Aufidius is
lieutenant		Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
it		By sovereignty of nature. Aufidius nods to the guards outside his quarters and enters with his Lieutenant...
aufidius		Whether t'was pride, Whether defect of judgement, Or whether nature, Not to be other than one thing, Made him feared, So hated, and so banished. A beat as he studies the picture. His lieutenant watches him closely, disturbed by Aufidius' obsession with Coriolanus.
aufidius		So our virtues Lie in the interpretation of the time. He brings the picture closer, whispering now:
aufidius		One fire drives out one fire; one nail,
menenius		No, I'll not go!
menenius		Go, you that banished him! A mile before his tent fall down, and
knee		The way into his mercy. They stop when Titus enters with General Cominius. Titus is dusty, has just come from somewhere. He is pale. Truly shaken. Menenius and the others crowd around him, waiting for his report. Titus sits, takes a moment to pull himself together, and then reports with the grim severity of a death sentence:
titus		He would not seem to know me. A beat.
titus		I urged our old acquaintance, and the
drops		That we have bled together. "Coriolanus" He would not answer to, forbade all names... A long beat. They wait for him to go on. Titus searches for the words to continue.
titus		He was a kind of nothing.  Titleless... Till he had forged himself a name in the
fire		Of burning Rome. He has no more to say, his head drops. Menenius begins to leave the room. The Tribunes stop him, leading him to a secluded corner:
sicinius		If you refuse your aid
if you		Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue, More than the instant army we can make, Might stop our countryman.
menenius		No, I'll not meddle.
sicinius		Pray you, go to him.
menenius		What should I do? Brutus stops him, with real emotion:
brutus		Only make trial what your love can do For Rome towards Martius.
menenius		Well, and say that Martius Return me, as Titus is returned, Unheard - what then?
sicinius		Yet your good will Must have that thanks from Rome. Menenius thinks about it.
brutus		You know the very road into his kindness, And cannot lose your way.
menenius		I'll undertake it I think he'll hear me. The Tribunes are relieved. Cominius nods and escorts Menenius out. Brutus and Sicinius return to Titus.
titus		He'll never hear him.
sicinius		No?
titus		I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye Red as it would burn Rome.
menenius		The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old friend Menenius does! 0 Martius, Martius! He steps forward to hug Coriolanus. Two of the Acolytes stop him. He can approach no further. Menenius accepts this. No matter. He is completely confident he will be able to manipulate his protege. He always has in the past.
menenius		Thou art preparing fire for us. Look thee, here's water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to thee, but being assured none but myself could move thee, I have been blown out of your gates with sighs, and conjure thee to pardon Rome.
coriolanus		Away.
menenius		How? . Away?
my affairs		Are servanted to others. Menenius can't believe this cold response--
coriolanus		Therefore be gone. His frigid eyes slice into Menenius:
coriolanus		Another word, Menenius, I will not hear thee speak. Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core. The Guards pull Menenius away. Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him.
menenius		This Martius is grown from man to dragon. He has wings; he's more than a creeping thing. He stops at his limo.
menenius		There is no more mercy in him than there is milk in a male tiger. He climbs into his limo. Shuts the door. The limousine drives off, sending up a cloud of dust that swirls around Cominius.
coriolanus		My partner in this action, You must report to the Volscian lords how
plainly		I have borne this business. Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing:
aufidius		Only their ends You have respected; stopped your ears
against		The general suit of Rome; never admitted A private whisper, no, not with such
friends		That thought them sure of you.
coriolanus		This last old man, Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to Rome, Loved me above the measure of a father. Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their attention.
virgilia		My lord and husband-- He stop her, almost a warning, with:
coriolanus		These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
virgilia		The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so.
coriolanus		Best of my flesh, Forgive my tyranny, but do not say For that "Forgive our Romans." She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him deeply. A long kiss.
coriolanus		0, a kiss Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge. It is a perverse response. In his monomaniacal imagination, his wife's kiss is obsessively equated with his revenge on Rome. He finally moves to Volumnia, simply can't resist her orbital pull.
coriolanus		You gods I prate, And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, in the earth. He kneels before her. It is done with a sense of duty and protocol, not affection.
volumnia		0, stand up blest. He rises.
volumnia		Then with no softer cushion than the
flint		I kneel before thee. She quickly and dramatically kneels before him. It is a coup de theatre and a masterpiece of manipulation.
coriolanus		What is this? Your knees to me? To your corrected son?
volumnia		Thou art my warrior; I hope to frame thee. She indicates Young Martius:
volumnia		This is a poor epitome of yours, Which by the interpretation of full time May show like all yourself.
coriolanus		 The god of soldiers, Inform thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou may prove To shame invulnerable. Volumnia pulls Young Martius down:
volumnia		Your knee, sir. She pulls Virgilia down:
volumnia		Even he, your wife, and myself, Are suitors to you.
coriolanus		I beseech you, peace! Or, if you'd ask, remember this: Do not bid me dismiss my soldiers, or
capitulate		Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural. Desire not To ally my rages and revenges with Your colder reasons. Volumnia stands, assuming again a position of strength.
volumnia		0, no more, no more! You have said you will not grant us anything, For we have nothing else to ask but that Which you deny already; yet we will ask, That, if you fail in our request, the
blame		May hang upon your hardness. Therefore hear us.
coriolanus		Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for
volumnia		Should we be silent and not speak, our
raiment		And state of bodies would reveal what
life		We have led since thy exile. Think with
thyself		How more unfortunate than all living
women		Are we come hither, since that thy sight,
which should		Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts, Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow, Making the mother, wife, and child to see The son, the husband and the father
tearing		His country's bowels out.
volumnia		For myself, son, I propose not to wait on fortune till These wars determine. If I cannot
persuade thee		Rather to show a noble grace, thou shalt
no sooner		March to assault thy country than to Tread on thy mother's womb That brought thee to this world.
your name		Living to time. Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father, challenging and warlike:
young martius		You shall not tread on me. I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight! Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's aggression is disturbing. And familiar.
coriolanus		I have sat too long. He rises and turns as if to go--
volumnia		Nay, go not from us thus! Her command stops him. She appeals, quickly getting to the point of her argument:
volumnia		If it were so that our request did tend To save the Romans, thereby to destroy The Volsces whom you serve, you might
condemn us		As poisonous of your honor. No, our suit Is that you reconcile them -- so the
side		Give the all-hail to thee and cry, "Be
blest		For making up this peace!" Coriolanus does not respond. She softens...
volumnia		Speak to me, son... Still he does not respond. His emotions are roiling. Still she is soft and vulnerable...
volumnia		Why dost not speak? But softness is not a note she plays naturally. She knows it. Her natural aggressiveness comes out, anger and outrage gradually boiling to the surface:
volumnia		Thinks thou it honorable for a noble man Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you. He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy. Perhaps thy childishness will move him
more		Than can our reasons. There's no man in
the world		More bound to his mother, yet here he lets me prate Like one in the stocks! She is assaulting him now, on the attack:
volumnia		Thou hast never in thy life Showed thy dear mother any courtesy, When she, poor hen, Has clucked thee to the wars and safely
home		Loaded with honor. Say my request's unjust, And spurn me back; and the gods will
which		To a mother's part belongs! Coriolanus can take no more, turns and begins to walk away-- Volumnia reacts like lightning -- grabbing Virgilia and Young Martius and dragging them to the dirt with her--
volumnia		Down! Let us shame him with our knees! She claws at the dirt -- like Hecuba -- keening -- a shocking explosion of raw emotion -- almost an incantation:
volumnia		Down! An end! This is the last. So we will home to Rome, And die among our neighbors. Nay, behold! This boy, that cannot tell what he would
have		But kneels and holds up hands for fellowship, Does reason our petition with more
strength		Than thou hast to deny it. She remains kneeling, panting for air. Coriolanus looks at her. His noble mother. Clawing in the dirt like an animal. Filthy. Despairing. Her face wet with tears. She looks back up at him. She senses she has failed. It's over.
volumnia		Come, let us go. She rises slowly, her age showing. Her spirit broken. Or seeming so. She stares at Coriolanus as she rips off the Roman Eagle medal she wears and flings it to the ground. The blood red sky of sunset behind her reflects her passion as she summons up all her strength for a lacerating and icy
volumnia		This fellow had a Volscian to his mother; His wife is in Corioles and his child
coriolanus		O mother mother... What have you done? He falls to his knees, clutching her hand.
coriolanus		Behold, the heavens do ope, The gods look down -- and this unnatural
scene		They laugh at. He buries his head in her, like a lost child:
coriolanus		O my mother, mother! 0! You have won a happy victory for Rome; But for your son - believe it, 0 believe it! - Most dangerously you have with him
prevailed		(he looks up at her
coriolanus		But let it come. He stands, regains his composure. He slowly walks to Aufidius. He leans close, speaking intimately:
coriolanus		Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars, I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius, Were you in my stead, would you have
heard		A mother less? Or granted less? Aufidius?
coriolanus		I dare be sworn you were. And, sir, it is no little thing to make Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir, What peace you'll make, advise me. We study Aufidius' face. He gives away nothing. Coriolanus turns back to Volumnia. Looks at her. She is victorious. The crimson sky looms over her ominously. And we go to...
cominius		A merrier day did never yet greet Rome, No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins. We have all Great cause to give great thanks. He looks to Volumnia.
cominius		Behold our patroness, the life of Rome. She is erect and exalted. "The Life of Rome" personified. She ignores her son. Coriolanus will not look at her.
lieutenant		How is it with our general?
aufidius		As with a man by his own charity slain.
lieutenant		Our soldiers will remain uncertain whilst 'Twixt you there's difference; but the
aufidius		I know it, And my pretext to strike at him admits A good construction. A beat. He continues more to himself than them, almost convincing himself.
aufidius		I raised him, and I pawned Mine honor for his truth; who being so heightened, He watered his new plants with dews of flattery, Seducing so my friends.
lieutenant		So he did, my lord. The army marveled at it; and in the last, When he had carried Rome and that we
looked		For no less spoil than glory-- Aufidius works himself into an intense, neurotic rage:
aufidius		There was it! For which my sinews shall be stretched upon him. At a few drops of women's rheum, which
are		As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and
labor		Of our great action -- Therefore shall he die, And I'll renew me in his fall.
lieutenant		Therefore, at your vantage, Ere he express himself or move the people With what he would say, let him feel your sword, Which we will second.
subsisting		Under your great command. He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius:
coriolanus		We have made peace With no less honor to the Volscians Than shame to the Romans.
aufidius		(handing the treaty to
degree		He hath abused your powers. Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the obvious attempt to anger him:
coriolanus		Traitor? How now?
aufidius		Ay, traitor, Martius.
coriolanus		"Martius"?
aufidius		Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou
think		I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy
stolen name		"Coriolanus"? He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus with cutting bitterness:
perfidiously		He has betrayed your business and given up, For certain drops of salt, your city Rome- I say "your city" - to his wife and
tears		He whined and roared away YOUR VICTORY! Coriolanus tries to contain his anger:
coriolanus		Hear'st thou, Mars?
aufidius		Name not the god, thou boy of tears.
coriolanus		Measureless liar, thou has made my heart Too great for what contains it. "Boy"? 0 slave. Coriolanus' eyes miss nothing a Volscian thug shifting a bead of sweat on another one secretly reaching into his coat for a weapon. Some of the Volscian thugs are clearly nervous. Coriolanus is ready. He prepares himself mentally to die. He is acutely controlled:
coriolanus		Cut me to pieces, Volsces. Men and lads, stain all your edges on me. It is a dare. A challenge.
coriolanus		"Boy"? False hound. If you have writ your annals true, 'tis
there		That, like an eagle in a dovecote, I Fluttered your Volscians in Corioles. His gaze burns into Aufidius:
coriolanus		Alone I did it "Boy."
aufidius		Let him die for it. At this command, his men move-- Aufidius steps back as-- The Volscian thugs attack-- With knives, machetes and tire irons-- Coriolanus fights bravely -- disarming two, grabbing their weapons, killing them, fighting back-- Slashing and cutting his way through the killers- Closer and closer to Aufidius, who just watches-- Blood spattering and spraying- But the thugs overpower Coriolanus, there are just too many--
aufidius		Take him up. No one moves.
aufidius		Assist. Abrupt cut to--
****Dialogues from script :Cradle_2_the_Grave.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  2.  FADE IN:  EXT. STREETS  - DAY  End of the day.     An armored truck moves through the city of Los Angeles.  EXT. JEWELRY EXCHANGE - DAY The armored truck pulls up. An ARMORED TRUCK GUARD emerges from the back with a satchel and heads inside.
6.		A large, free-standing FISH TANK BUBBLES away. Nearby, CHRISTOPHE is packing to leave town. When... SU  Where are the stones?
christophe		Fuck off. Wham!   Wham!   Wham!     Wham!   Much more violent than a bitch- slap. CHRISTOPHE I'll tell you. SU I know.
8.		I'll bet you're a lot more fun than any of those boring people upstairs. Douglas is unaffected.   Just looks at her blankly. DOUGLAS Really, ma'am.   I have a job to do. Daria doesn't understand why he's not interested in her. Then she glimpses Douglas's magazine lying on the desk.
daria's pov		The magazine is Genre.   Males for males.   Buff boys.   Big pecs, big penises.
fait		This isn't a conversation.    Do it. It's an order.    Tommy knows he has to.   Shit. TOMMY Shit. DARIA Key-card.
10.		talking on duty. TOMMY Who's talking? Honey, this is a flirting... But you're probably just another good-looking man wasting it all on women. World's full of fools. Beat.   Douglas lets him see the Genre magazine. TOMMY Yahtzee!... Okay, Mr. I-Always-Have- A-Hard-Nightstick. Put away the pictures of those underfed, white males and let's broaden your horizons.
another angle		As the doors close, Daria shoots a wink back at...
tommy		who furtively flips her the bird.        Never missing a beat with Douglas.
12.		INT. VAULT ANTEROOM - DAY Fait emerges from the hole beneath the table.
13.		Miles, the hole drilled, picks up the cylinder he'd had slung over his shoulder. Pulls out a pressurized metal canister of liquid nitrogen. Miles injects the nitrogen into the hole. A CRACKLING sound as the super-low-temp LIQUID spreads out inside the vault door. The outside frosts over. Fait finishes attaching the free ends of the cables to clips on the SAM. Final checks of the rig. FAIT Out.
fait		Go. INTERCUT WITH:
angle back		Fait turns back to Daria. Signals her to climb up onto the top of the train. Then begins climbing after her. As Fait reaches the driver's window, he sees ANOTHER SWAT COP approaching the train's DRIVER, checking under seats, etc. Fait has to climb fast. The SWAT Guy and the Driver getting closer. Looking up. Just as...
19.		SU The stones.
miles		You'll have to come and get 'em.
tommy		What the hell happened? Fait puts a finger to his lips.    Leads them across the room to another door.
24.		rethink the no-gun policy. TOMMY Little ass-whuppin's nothing. 'Least you didn't have to play all foxy with the rent-a-cop.
ling		So this is Mr. Christophe? SONA Yes. Only the handcuffs and fish tank are a new look. LING Apparently we're not his first visitors today. CHRISTOPHE Please, Monsieur Ling -- Ling interrupts him with a hand on the shoulder.
ling		Whatever you're going to say... Make it the truth.
archie		How about a Marine Corps assault hovercraft? FAIT I got other business. Fait and Archie walk to a work table. Nearby, two MEN UNLOAD HOT TVS from a truck. One Man calls to Archie. MAN UNLOADING HOT TVS We're outta room over here, Arch. ARCHIE Stack 'em in the office, if you have to. Then Archie turns his attention back to Fait. ARCHIE ... You weren't downtown tonight by any chance, were you, Tony? FAIT Don't know what you're talking about. ARCHIE Me either. FAIT Ever see black diamonds before? ARCHIE White, blue, yellow, pink. Neil Diamond. Lou Diamond Phillips. Black diamonds? Solid rocks? No. Whereupon Fait opens the nylon bag and pours the black diamonds out onto the table. Archie pulls out a loup. Studies them a moment. Shrugs. ARCHIE You got me. FAIT Find out how much they're worth. ARCHIE There a timetable on this, or -- FAIT Yesterday. ARCHIE That's what I figured.
fait		Yeah?   Make me an offer. Su stands.
su		You can walk out of here. FAIT ... No deal. Fait launches   himself at Su. Gonna fight     his way    out the door. A much    better fighter than Miles.     And...    He's saved by the bell:    the PHONE RINGS. The fight     stops.     The phone's near   Fait. Beat. The answering      machine    picks up.
29.		LING I don't have time for this. FAIT That your final offer?
ling		I can be a very dangerous man, Mr. Fait. Fait just hangs up. FAIT Everybody think I'm the fucking Goodwill or something...? Look, I've had a shitty night, and so far, I got zip for all my troubles. So I don't know who the fuck you are, and I don't care. But hear this: you can beat my ass around the block all night -- Brother, it ain't gonna get you those stones. A long beat. The two men facing off. Then... As Su stands aside, giving Fait a clear path out...
30.		INT./EXT. ESCALADE - CONTINUOUS ACTION Finally forcing its way through on-coming traffic and speeding down the alley after Fait. The ESCALADE reaches the intersection. Turns. And... CRASHES into a DUMPSTER rolled into its path. The dumpster forces the Escalade into a wall.
31.		two. Using all means available. During the battle, a killer tries to reach the gun behind the chain-link fence. Almost gets it. When... Two vicious DOBERMANS, guard dogs for the junkyard behind the fence, leap out of nowhere, SNARLING and SNAPPING and smash into the fence. The killer jumps back, barely escaping with his arm. The fight continues.   Fait and Su wear them down. Behind the fence, the Dobies want flesh. Every time someone crashes into the fence, they're right there trying to get a piece. Also, every time someone crashes into the old fence, we see a series of chain-link connections loosen and break. Until it happens one too many times. The entire fence goes down. The dogs are out. The nearest targets: Su and Fait.Su and Fait must now focus their attention on fighting off and evading the ferocious attack dogs. Finally, Su kicks one dog flying. Whip-kicks the other off Fait. The two men run for the Escalade. The dogs are up in a flash. Su spots an abandoned car. A rear door is open. SU Over here. Fait follows, right on his heels. The dogs close in. Su reaches the car. Dives through the open door. Somersaults over the rear seat. Kicks open the far door and rolls out. Fait dives in right behind him. The Dobies leap in after Fait. Fait's airborne completely through the back seat and out the other side of the car. Clears the door. And... Su slams the door shut. We watch a two-Doberman pile-up against the suddenly closed door as Su leaps to the car's other side and shuts that door, too. Trapping the SNARLING, foaming DOGS inside. The bad guys are gone. And Fait's CELL PHONE is RINGING. As Fait digs out the phone, to Su -- FAIT Man, what the hell's up with these fucking stones?  Go.
32.		INTERCUT WITH:
archie		It's Archie.    Bad news.   We got a problem.
33.		FAIT Who are they? ARCHIE Uh... Don't know.
fait		What'd they say? ARCHIE Well... 'Give us the stones, motherfucker.' You know. That kinda thing. FAIT That's it?
archie		Pretty much.    Yeah. FAIT Thanks for keeping yourself alive to pass on all that valuable information. SU Did you call the police? ARCHIE Look around. Are you crazy? Then again, maybe you are crazy, 'cause I have no idea who you are. FAIT Big question is, who's behind the boost? ARCHIE  I don't know that, but I know they got great guns. I can't even get those. U.S. Special Forces only. FAIT ... Chambers. ARCHIE What? FAIT He's wired into everything going down in this city, and he can get that kind of firepower. Gotta be him. SU Who's Chambers?
fait		Runs the biggest outfit in town. What warlords are to Afghanistan, Chambers is to L.A... And you want to take him on, you're on your own. Game over for me.  And now that I'm truly fucked -- what the hell are you, anyway? You got some I.D.? Beat.   Su takes out his wallet and shows him.
36.		gentleman, please? Beat.   Fait hands the phone to Su. FAIT He has my daughter.
archie		Oh, Jesus... FAIT He wants to talk to you. Su takes the phone.   In CHINESE with ENGLISH SUBTITLES -- SU Hello. LING I thought I killed you. SU I have the stones.      No negotiations. Let the girl go. LING Do you really want one more person to die? We see this resonates with Su. SU No negotiations. And then, he simply hangs up. END INTERCUT. FAIT What'd you just do?     What happened? SU I said I have the stones and won't negotiate for your daughter. FAIT You what? ARCHIE Oh, Jesus... SU It will confuse him.     Buy us time and keep her alive. FAIT
37.		What the fuck're you talking about? That asshole has my daughter. SU Look -- I know him.  I want the stones, you want your daughter. We'll get them both back. We'll work together. FAIT ... I gotta work with you? SU You have no choice.
38.		The buyers fly in tomorrow.   Should we stop them? LING We'll never regain their confidence.  We need information. Find the right people. Pay whatever it costs. Something's not right. Something's happening with the stones. SONA What about the girl?
ling		We'll need her... She stays alive. For now.
39.		Mine is fifteen... Boyfriends... FAIT Never happen.    I'll just kill 'em.
su		I wish it were that easy. Another beat.   Then -- FAIT About time I got the 4-1-1. SU 4-1-1?
fait		What's this all about? SU The stones aren't what you think they are. FAIT No shit.  How about the guy who has Vanessa? SU He's exactly what you think he is -- a thief and a killer. FAIT Great...
40.		campground. CHARLES You're sure you cleaned it out? LING THUG #1 Everything except the denture cream and adult diapers. Vanessa's still screaming.   It's getting on Charles' nerves. CHARLES I'm sick of her already. He marches toward the van.   Unlocks the rear door and slides it open.
fait		... Chinese guy. CHAMBERS ... No shoes in my crib.
43.		thief in the night. Stealing what don't belong to you. Chambers turns to Su.   In SUBTITLED KOREAN -- CHAMBERS You like tall white women? Su doesn't say anything.   Back to English -- CHAMBERS He can't talk? SU I don't speak Korean.
44.		What's worth that kind of trouble, that kind of heat? Gotta be something good. Gotta be something expensive. Beat.   He meets Fait's eyes.   Holds them.
fait		She's my little girl. CHAMBERS Make another one... Lotta offspring running around. Big scores're rare in a lifetime. Another beat.   That's it.   No deal.
45.		SU In Taiwan, I could force him to talk. FAIT This ain't Taiwan.  Only thing we can do now is find out where the stones are and go take 'em. SU You make it sound easy. FAIT It won't be. They're about to get in the car. Fait stops.     Looks back at the prison. Suddenly realizing something. FAIT ... They're at his club. SU How do you know? FAIT I know. I can feel it.      That ever happen to you? SU No. FAIT I thought Chinese people were all mystical and shit. SU We like to gamble.     Not guess. FAIT It's no guess... But I could be wrong... We'll hit the club. You gotta see Archie. SU Archie? FAIT He's gotta remember something about the guys who took down his place. SU What if he can't? FAIT Pretend it's Taiwan.    Make him remember.
russell		What are you doing?! CHARLES Whoa. Take it easy. Just seeing if I could help with something. RUSSELL You can't! It's very delicate equipment! Stay away! Just stay away from my truck! CHARLES What? RUSSELL Stay away from my truck! CHARLES What? RUSSELL Stay away from my truck! CHARLES What? Sona's emerging from a trailer/office nearby. SONA Stop it. Charles does. And now we can hear Vanessa, who's begun screaming inside the camper. VANESSA  I want my daddy! Charles backs up, continuing to address Russell --
charles		I'm backing away... I'm backing away... VANESSA  I want my daddy! I want my daddy! Sona tosses Charles a roll of duct tape. SONA Tape her up and gag her. As Vanessa continues to SCREAM, Charles moves to the van, unlocks the rear door with the key/remote and pockets it. Then opens the door. And... Vanessa bolts out, crying, and clamps her arms around his waist. VANESSA I want my daddy! I want my daddy!    I want my daddy! CHARLES Get the hell off me. He pries loose her arms from around him. Keeping a grip on her wrists with one hand, Charles turns her around to face away from him. He's about to start duct-taping her wrists. CHARLES ... Waste of time... I can think of a better way of shutting you up -- Vanessa back-kicks him hard in the 'nads.   Charles howls in pain and lets her go. Quickly, Vanessa jumps back inside the camper.
50.		thought...  Hey, y'know, this is crazy. I don't know what I was thinking. I shouldn't even be here like this. Sorry, Odion.
odion		Didn't know you thought so. DARIA I always cared for you, Odion. That's why I'm here. ODION ... You looking for a job? DARIA I need something. ODION ... So maybe you could work here. DARIA Here?... Oh, man, I don't know. ODION You were the best. Not many girls pulling in two g's a night. DARIA Yeah, but it's been a while for that... Might not remember how. ODION Just like a bicycle, baby.     You don't forget that stuff. Daria considers it a moment. DARIA Don't know how Jump'd feel about it. Having me back. ODION Hey, you let me worry about Jump,
51.		okay?  Meantime, why don't you come on in, and you and me can, y'know, talk some more about it.
su		How will you recognize him? ARCHIE I didn't see his face.   But I'll know his pinkie ring when I  see it. Ten carats. Round cut with   square mount. Good color and clarity.   I remember thinking what it would  do to my face if he hit me. OFF Su's dubious look, as Archie crams on a baseball hat to help disguise himself...
53.		They reach the arena. It's also huge. Packed with men. Hazy with smoke. Loud with betting, cheers and boos. A large, chain-link cage stands at the center of the room. Inside, two battered and bloodied fighters are beating the shit out of each other.
su		Find the ring. ARCHIE Yeah.    Okay. He looks around.      Lotta African-American males. ARCHIE Could take a little while. As Archie starts moving through the crowd, looking at hands, and Su follows...
54.		Daria just stands there a moment, getting her body into the music. Then starts dancing for him. Slow and sexy. And Odion's eating it up.
55.		their scary-assed foreign bugs over here. Y'know, in their luggage and shit. And then the bugs're getting loose and fucking everything up -- eating all the trees and everything, y'know, making people sick... Anyway, city says we gotta spray to prevent any infestation and possible spread. DOORMAN We're doing business inside. Can't let you just start hosing the place with bug spray. TOMMY Yeah, well, maybe you should at least ask the manager about it. DOORMAN Manager's busy. TOMMY ... Okay. Your call. Just know the city quarantine people'll be here first thing tomorrow. DOORMAN Quarantine people? TOMMY They'll be shutting you down for non- compliance... Peace out. Tommy starts to go. DOORMAN Wait, wait, wait. Tommy stops. DOORMAN City's really gonna come and close us up? TOMMY Quicker'n a Zip-loc. DOORMAN ... You sure you're not fucking with me? TOMMY I'm a licensed exterminator.   Why would I be fucking with you? The Doorman considers it another moment.   Then --
tommy		Look. Let's do this. You let me start with a couple small rooms, y'know, offices or something, someplace you don't have customers. Upstairs, so the fumes don't bother anybody. I'll pop off a couple bug bombs, and then we'll do the rest later. How's that? The Doorman considers a moment.     Then -- DOORMAN ... Yeah, okay. Get the bombs, and come on.
tommy		... Look.   At.   This. DOORMAN Just do your thing and go, bro. TOMMY Roger that. He positions the BUG BOMBS. Then.... PFFFT.     He sets off one. PFFFT. The other. As he goes -- TOMMY Just keep the door closed and be sure to give this shit a full hour before anyone comes in. OFF the closing door...
57.		EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY Fait and Miles grab gear bags and mobilize. Clip onto ascender/descenders and lower themselves to a second-story window. A window into...
59.		FAIT I'm telling you, they're here. MILES What're we gonna do?
fait		Everyone out. Fait's started searching the room.       Tearing it apart. MILES What about you? FAIT I gotta save Vanessa.     I gotta find 'em. MILES I'm not leaving you. FAIT Yes, you are.    Go.   Now. Someone starts RATTLING the LOCKED DOOR.      Fait doesn't stop. MILES T. Come on, man. They're outside. Give it up. FAIT Shut up and get the fuck outta here! That's an order! Miles hesitates. Fait's unreachable. Chambers' men are trying to break down the door. Miles goes. Out the window. Onto the ascender-descender. And gone.
chambers		Okay, okay... Ling stops.
chambers		Ain't worth my life... I'll take the five and call it a game.
62.		The midget RING ANNOUNCER steps in with a mike. RING ANNOUNCER Seven advances, eleven's out... Next up, eight versus twelve. Eight versus twelve. Fighters report to the cage. As Archie and Su continue the search -- ARCHIE You're after the stones, too, huh? No response from Su.   Beat. ARCHIE ... I did some more checking around to see what anyone knows about 'em... Guess who get back to me? My Defense Department connection. Now, I think he's calling me about this surplus F- 14 Tomcat I'm trying to get my hands on. But no. Turns out he's calling to tell me about a rumor outta Taiwan about black stones -- In the ring, we see another bruiser waiting to fight as the midget calls out -- RING ANNOUNCER Number twelve! ARCHIE  -- only they're not jewels -- RING ANNOUNCER Number twelve! ARCHIE They're -- Suddenly, seeing the "12" card in Su's hand, a FIGHT CLUB FAN grabs his arm and raises it. Yells out -- FIGHT CLUB FAN Twelve's right here! Su pulls his arm back. FIGHT CLUB FAN I'd be scared of him, too. Su glances into the ring, seeing the BRUISER for the first time. The Bruiser's beckoning.
63.		BRUISER Let's go, chickenshit! Su waves them off. SU Not today... The catcalls start.    Archie leans into Su. ARCHIE I know it    wasn't the plan. But if you don't    fight, they're gonna toss us out on    our asses. We might never find the    guy.
64.		Not yet. The PARAMEDIC treating him doesn't understand. PARAMEDIC What?
fait		Nothing.
archie		still checking out the hands of African-American men in the crowd. Not making any friends as he does it.
su		Number eight's on his feet.    Moving in again.   When...
archie		Suddenly, he sees it.    The ring.
su		dodges number eight again. Then... Sees Archie signaling he's found the guy. And... Gets nailed by number eight. A solid hit. Exciting the crowd and pumping up number eight. Whereupon... Su turns to him and bows. SU You win. Su turns, heads out of the cage. The crowd roaring its disapproval. As... The midget Ring Announcer bars Su's path. RING ANNOUNCER No quitting.    Get back in there. Su moves him aside. The midget resists. Five other waiting fighters come to the midget's aid. Forcing Su back into the cage. Where... It's now Su against them all.  HOT DOG STAND - DAY Daria, Tommy and Miles wait. Two     extreme MOTO-RIDERS dressed in leathers have pulled up    in a truck and gotten out to eat. In the back of the truck     is a motorcycle and a four-wheel ATV. The two men Ogle     Daria. To her -- MOTO-RIDER #1 Looking good. She ignores them.     To each other, so she can hear -- MOTO-RIDER #2 Nice rack. MOTO-RIDER #1 Like the upstairs, like the basement,  66. too. DARIA Shut up, assholes...
another angle		Fait runs toward the truck parked by the hot dog stand. To Daria, Miles and Tommy, looking on -- FAIT Get the car.     Stay close. As Daria, Miles and Tommy quickly mobilize, Fait jumps into the bed of the truck. Jumps on the ATV. IGNITION. The Moto-Riders suddenly realize what's happening.
68.		WHOOOM! Fait's flying. Seventy-plus. Down streets, sidewalks, squeezing through places police cars can't. Over, under, around, through -- doesn't matter. The ATV's fast, strong and maneuverable.
71.		TV ANCHOR  ... Here's a car coming down the exit ramp... We see the police approach the car.
fait		Yeah.   That's what I'm getting. SU The doorman.
fait		... Where the hell is he?  Everyone stay put. OFF which, as he and Su go --
su		... I lost the stones. Ling has them... I don't know where he is... I have no way to find him... What do you want me to do? Under which, the PHONE begins to RING.    And... Fait's too upset to care about answering.
fait		Okay, baby, okay. Just calm down. Under which, in b.g., Su quickly ends the phone call to his superior. Still in Chinese -- SU I'll call you back. FAIT  Where are you? VANESSA I don't know. I'm in a van inside a big building. They painted the windows. I can't look out. FAIT Try.   Try to see something. Vanessa puts her eye to the window.    Finally finds a small gap in the paint.
vanessa's pov		Few details. Just some chairs and bright green light from Russell's contraption.
77.		VANESSA I see chairs.    And there's green light. Fait repeats for the others' benefit.
fait		You see chairs and green light? Where's the light coming from? VANESSA I can't tell. SU Is it bright?
fait		The green light, baby -- is it bright? VANESSA Yeah.   Really, really bright. FAIT  It's real bright. VANESSA Daddy, hurry!    I'm scared! FAIT I know, baby.    Just hang in there
78.		TOMMY What? SU Selling the stones... A dye laser emits green light. He needs it to activate them. MILES What the hell you talking about? DARIA What are these stones? Archie answers it.
archie		Doomsday in disguise. All eyes go to him. ARCHIE They're some kinda new synthetic plutonium. Small and portable, but mega-powerful. TOMMY This fucker's making bombs? SU Not making them. ARCHIE Yeah, he'd need a big operation for that. Why bother? Just demonstrate the stones work and sell 'em to whichever international scumbag offers the highest bid. He makes millions, they make the bombs, then... 'look out, world.' FAIT ... Okay, so we know what he's up to. How's it get us to Vanessa? Su considers it a moment. SU The buyers will want to arrive and leave quickly... Somewhere private... Accessible by aircraft. FAIT Vanessa said she's inside a big building. Could be a hangar.
79.		MILES Man, there's dozens of little airports around here. We'd never get to 'em all. SU ... Flight plans. ARCHIE Hey, yeah. Flight plans show destinations. All aircraft file 'em with the Aviation Administration. If we could get a list, we could maybe figure out where the sale's going down.
fait		... Daria, call the aviation people. Use our L.A.P.D. credentials. We need flight plan info for all private aircraft in this area tonight... Everyone else get ready to move... Miles, the no-gun policy's revoked. You break out the heat... Tommy, you gotta get us a diversion. ARCHIE I can help with that. FAIT ... Do it all fast.
80.		consummate satisfaction suddenly spreads across his face. LING ... But it's a lot of money... Beat.   He puts down the stone.    A glance at the camper.
ling		Be ready to kill the girl and go as soon as the sale's over.
82.		Both. FAIT  ... Yeah... Let's get it all.
russell		... New World Order. As the buyers absorb this...
84.		We'll take that. FRENCH BUYER Six at one-five. Silence.
egyptian buyer		Ten at two million. Silence.
85.		there fast. DARIA I'll keep her safe.
russian buyer		Eight at three. Silence. FRENCH BUYER Nine at three. Silence. EGYPTIAN BUYER Ten at three-one. SONA We'll take that... There are now thirty-seven stones available. And now, in more and more rapid-fire succession -- AFRICAN BUYER Five at three-five. PAKISTANI BUYER Eight at three-five. FRENCH BUYER Twenty at three.
miles		is already sighted in.   PULLS the TRIGGER.   PHUT!
sentries		One Ling killer takes a leg hit and goes down. Before the second killer has time to react, he catches a BULLET in the shoulder.
miles		MILES Done.
fait		Tommy and Archie. Watch out for the camper. Punch it.
87.		Russell watches the advancing tank. RUSSELL I knew it!   I knew it!
vanessa's pov		Charles is drawn away by the advancing tank.
vanessa		reaches a button for opening and closing the giant hangar doors. She jabs a button, and the nearest door begins to motor open.
charles		hears the OPENING HANGAR DOOR.    Turns.   Sees Vanessa and goes after her.
miles		SHOOTS again.   PHUT!
charles		The BULLET RICOCHETS off the PAVEMENT right next to him. In a flash, he's up and running. Heading out into the darkness of the airfield after Vanessa. Meanwhile, back inside...
89.		TOMMY I said don't move, motherfucker! Russell just keeps going. Slides open the side door in the back of the five-ton, revealing... A twin-fifty machine gun. Two barrels, .50 caliber. Dangerous even for a tank. Russell vaults in and takes aim. RUSSELL Fucking amateurs! He starts FIRING. People start running. .50 CAL. ROUNDS take big CHUNKS out of whatever they hit. TOMMY Shit!   What do we do?
archie		Shoot back! TOMMY How? The question's answered for him.   He somehow does the right thing. And... Tommy's MACHINE GUN begins RIPPING CHUNKS out of the FIVE- TON and EVERYTHING near it. Tommy's a horrible shot; the gun's more in control of him. But... Russell finally dies under a HAIL of HEAVY LEAD. ARCHIE Twin .50's some major firepower. How'd that little shit get one? TOMMY Motherfucker.    Couldn't fucking listen. INTERCUT WITH which...
across hangar		Ling and Sona are moving toward the limo. Ling has the stones. When... Su is there. Blocking the way. Sona attacks. Su easily blocks the counters. Knocking Sona back. Never taking his eyes off Ling. When... Sona, who's fallen back against a buyer's bodyguard, quickly takes the bodyguard's small, full-auto SCORPION and turns the gun on Su. Su dives for cover as the BURST SHREDS the AREA where he'd just been standing. As Sona continues hunting Su... Su sees
90.		Ling getting into the limo.    To Archie and   Tommy, as he signals -- SU Don't let him get away!
limo		Ling's trying to drive out, when the .30 CAL. SLUGS PUNCH HOLES in the LIMO. The tank keeps coming. Ling bails out as the TANK CRUSHES the LIMO. INTERCUT WITH which...
charles		The BULLET knocks his gun from his hands.    Charles is slowed but keeps going.
miles		sweeps the rifle, looking for Charles and Vanessa.     He comms Fait. MILES Lost 'em behind the gas truck.
charles		stops behind the gas truck.   Looks around for Vanessa.    No sign of her. Until... Charles notices the door to the gas truck isn't closed all the way. He whips it open. And... There's Vanessa, hiding inside. Charles grabs her.   Yanks her out struggling and kicking. CHARLES Time to end this my way. And then... FAIT  Drop the girl.
miles		comms Fait. MILES No shot.
93.		FAIT Don't move. Fait jumps to his feet. Swinging the chocks. Not quite like nunchakus; more like a medieval mace. And now, all of Fait's fury comes pouring out as he uses the chocks to beat the living shit out of Charles. Charles tries to fight back, but he's out-matched by the chocks and Fait's emotion. The punishing blows land like Thor's hammer. Until... A mighty swing nearly takes Charles' head off. Charles is unconscious before he hits the ground. Fait stands over Charles. Tosses the chocks down. FAIT Wrong kid.    Wrong dad.
94.		EXT. AGUSTA As the chopper transfers to forward motion, Su struggles to get a foot hooked on something, anything. In the process, he kicks against the helo's sleek underbelly.
ling		To the pilot -- LING Retract the gear!
su		The gear begins to retract. Disappearing into the bottom of the chopper. In a second, there'll be nothing left to hold. SU Shoot it down!   Now! And then... Su lets go.      Drops fifteen feet to the ground. As... Behind him, having clanked out of the hangar, the Abrams tank is stopped. The turret swivels toward the Agusta.
sky		The Agusta's tail is BLOWN AWAY by the CANNON SHELL.
96.		You were lucky last time.   You Won't be lucky again. The final fight begins. The two martial arts masters battle in the circle of fire, using everything they can lay their hands on. Each the equal of the other. Each knowing it's a fight to the death. For a long time, the fight could go either way. Until... Ling gets an arm around Su's neck. Like Charles, Su thrashes and flails. Like Charles, he can't get away. LING I'll kill you fast.    You won't Feel a thing.
su		... I won't.    You will What happens next happens in an instant: Su breaks the hold. Hooks one of Ling's arms.   Wrenches it. A direction it can't go. Ling's ARM BONES SNAP, TISSUES RIP. Ling screams in pain. Just as... Su pulls the ceramic Capsule containing the activated sliver of stone from Ling's pocket. And... Slams the capsule deep into Ling's open mouth. Ling gags, choking on the capsule lodged in his throat. His horror- stricken eyes meet Su's. Su lets him suffer another moment. Then, in SUBTITLED Chinese -- SU This is for our friends. And Su strikes him in the throat. A spearing, open-hand blow with his fingertips. Hard. Hard enough that...
fait		We're not. Fait looks at Vanessa again.     Finding a new purpose in her eyes. Beat.
fait		Time I got real. He regards the others. FAIT Time we all did. ARCHIE Get real?    What's that mean? TOMMY ... Means we're through with that life. Fait's eyes meet Tommy's.     Beat.   Tommy nods. Fait looks to Daria for her answer. DARIA I'm with you, T. He looks to Miles. MILES Whatever you say, man. Fait looks back to Su.   They hold the look. SU ... Good luck. FAIT ... Faith. Another beat. Then they turn and start walking toward the arriving cop cars. Daria and Miles follow. Archie and Tommy lag behind. As they all walk away from us -- ARCHIE What, you're all gonna go straight, just like that? TOMMY Maybe oughta try it yourself. ARCHIE Me? Are you kidding? I've had straight jobs. You ever had a
99.		straight job? TOMMY I had plenty of straight jobs. ARCHIE Name one. TOMMY I sold Avon door-to-door. ARCHIE ... You were an Avon lady? TOMMY I was an Avon man. You got a problem with that? ARCHIE No, it's just, well, uh... TOMMY Nah, I'm just fucking with you.  But my momma did it, and don't you dare start disrespecting my momma... And so on... OFF which, we... FADE OUT:
****Dialogues from script :Crank.txt****

fade in:		VIDEO SCREEN 1 EXTREME CU: PACMAN, from the old video game, just a yellow ball with a mouth, fills the screen in all it's lo-res glory. The camera tracks along as it rolls along a tight corridor, gobbling dots. 2                                                            CUT TO:  EXTREME CU: A RED GHOST follows, in hot pursuit. CUT TO:  EXTREME CU: PACMAN gives it the slip, cuts down and gobbles a big dot. CUT TO:
2.		CONTINUED:
5		INT CHELIOS LIVING ROOM, CONTINUOUS
chelios		 Whathufuck?
3.		CONTINUED:
verona		What's shaking, douchebag? Thought I'd give you the heads up. You're dead.
4.		CONTINUED:  the shit I gave you is some fucking high tech sci-fi Chinese synthetic shit that even I don't know exactly what the fuck it is. All I know is once it binds with your blood cells, you're fucked, baby... and believe me, it's done binded. By now you'll be feeling your joints stiffen up... hard to breath...
erona		 Scarecrow. Whatever. You get the point. You're fucked. You got maybe an hour, max, tough guy ... baby ... sexy ...
5.		CONTINUED: 
sportscar guy		This is a eighty thousand dollar ride, cockwipe!
6.		CONTINUED:
chev		JESUS!
eve		I'm glad you called, but I'm not here. Can you leave me a message? Unless you're trying to sell something, because I'm absolutely not interested. But if you're not ...
eve		... then just ... oh, wait ... time's up -
7.		CONTINUED:
chev		S hit!
chev		Let me talk to him.
hocolate		 I'm sorry, the doctor isn't in the office at this time, may I take -
chev		Where is he?
chocolate		I beg your pardon sir?
chev		Where - thefuck - is - he?
chocolate		I don't know sir, this is his answering service, would you like me to have him paged?
8.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Fine, yes, please let the doctor know that Chev Chelios is a dead man if he can't call me back within the hour... got that?     C HOCOLATE Can you spell that for me sir?
chev		D-E-A-D.   Chelios... got it?
chocolate		Yes sir...
chev		Thank you.
chev		Kaylo. My man. So, where were you last night?
hev		Yeah, yeah.     You wanna know what I was doing?
kaylo		What?
chev		GETTING KILLED, YOU IDIOT!
kaylo		What?
hev		What? What? You heard me.      That son of a bitch Ricky Verona.
aylo		Ricky Verona ...
chev		 Who would've thought that little bastard had the stones to come whack me in my own crib... it's inconceivable... and yet, here we are.
kaylo		Where are we?
10.		CONTINUED:
chev		I'm dead and you're simple. Now listen: you put the word out I'm looking for Ricky Verona. Anyone sees him you call me.
kaylo		Ricky Verona?
chev		Find him!
11.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Where's Verona!!
orlando		 It's cool it's cool it's cool!
chev		Talk!!
orlando		I'm talking! What are we talking about?
chev		Don't fuck with me!!
orlando		OK, nobody's fucking with you, just calm down ...
chev		DON'T TELL ME TO CALM DOWN MOTHERFUCKER!
orlando		 Now you see that? I'm trying to help you here.
chev		Look, I got to find Ricky Verona ...
orlando		Why would I know where ... ?
12.		CONTINUED: 
chev		... right, I know, you don't know where he is, but you're going to tell me where he is, or I'm going to BLOW YOUR BRAINS INTO THAT TOILET!!
orlando		THE WHITE MAN IS COOL!   THE WHITE MAN IS COOL! S ILENCE - just the sound of CHEV'S heartbeat, pumping.
chev		Where's Verona.
orlando		OK. I am not affiliated with Ricky Verona.
chev		 You pulled the Anselmo job together, don't try to bullshit me ...
13.		CONTINUED: 
orlando		Easy ... easy ... now things are beginning to clarify ... you see how that works? How discussion can lead to clarity?
chev		That's not how I heard it.
orlando		But that's the way it is. That's the way it is. So you see, I don't know where Ricky Verona is. Because if I knew where he is, I would probably be there right now, beating his Gucci ass down. S tandoff. CHEV holds the gun with an unsteady hand, studying ORLANDO'S eyes, evaluating.
chev		Alright.
orlando		Thank you. That's what I'm talking about. That resembles civility.
14.		CONTINUED: 
chev		Forget it. I just gotta find Ricky Verona, that little bitch ...
orlando		I understand that. You've made that point abundantly clear to all of us.
chev		Look, just give me some coke, OK?    You got any coke?
orlando		OK, now you're insulting me.
chev		Come on, man, I know you got coke.
orlando		You think every brother is carrying, is that it?
chev		Come on, I don't have time for this, just give me something ... I'm really dying here ...
orlando		I can see that.
chev		No. You don't understand, I'm really fucking dying ... if I don't ...  May I just have some coke, please?
orlando		So this is medicinal use coke, that's what you're telling me.
chev		That's right.
15.		CONTINUED: 
orlando		Well?
chev		W hat?
orlando		You got something for me, or what?
chev		OK, that's good.    That's good.
rlando		Oh that's good, right?
chev		Seems like some Chinese assholes hired him to kill me...
orlando		Ah, so this is about the Don Kim situation.
16.		CONTINUED: 
chev		What do you know about it?
orlando		I know you pulled the trigger.
chev		 Of course I pulled the trigger! WHY WOULDN'T I PULL THE TRIGGER?!
orlando		O...kay...
chev		his shit's not working.
orlando		Beg your pardon?
hev		I think I know what I have to do.
orlando		 Uhh... what exactly is it that you got to do?
hev		Got to kick... some black... ass.
17.		CONTINUED: 
orlando		What?
chev		Alright ... who wants white meat?
chev		Doc?
chev		3A                                                                 23A You motherfucker!
verona		ude, aren't you dead yet?    What the hell are you doing out there?
chev		23A                                                                 23A I'm coming for you, asshole, believe me.
verona		eah, whatever. Look, just thought you'd like to know that I'm all about hooking up with that mystery girl you've been banging as soon as your ass is underground ... I forgot to say so on that gay James Bond tape I left for you...
chev		23A                                                                 23A Yeah, yeah, then you're going to rape my grandmother, blah blah blah. What do you think Carlito is going to think when he finds out what you did? Your whole crew is history.
verona		arlito? That's funny, I guess you didn't know... Carlito's my boy now, we're tight.
chev		You haven't been tight since your brother fucked you in 3rd grade.
19.		CONTINUED:
verona		lever. Snappy. Did you pretty good, didn't I, Chelios? Come on, you can admit it.
chev		We'll see.
verona		Right, right, and the best part about it is...
hev		Sorry, I must take this. See you later.
verona		I doubt it. C HEV pushes "answer" and picks up the new call.
chev		25A                                                                    25A Yeah.
hev		Doc!    Shit, it's about time.
chev		25A                                                                    25A OK, forget it, listen: I'm dying. I've been poisoned with some kind of Chinese synthetic shit.
oc miles		Woah!
chev		You've got to do something for me, it feels so crazy, like it's in my blood ...
20.		CONTINUED:
doc miles		Alright, slow down. You say you've been poisoned. Can you describe the symptoms?
chev		It's like... it's like... like I'm slowing down... like I'm caught in a tar pit...
doc miles		Blurred vision?
chev		Yeah.
doc miles		Dizziness?
chev		S ure.
doc miles		Pain in your chest?
chev		Not really. Actually I'm feeling pretty good right now.
doc miles		What are you doing?
chev		Driving through a mall with five cops chasing me.
21.		CONTINUED:
doc miles		 The flow of adrenaline is keeping you alive.
chev		I'm having a little trouble hearing you, Doc.
doc miles		Listen, Chev - you have to keep moving.
chev		Explain.
doc miles		If I'm right, they gave you the Beijing Cocktail... very nasty ... works on your adrenal gland, blocking your receptors. The only way to slow it down is to keep the flow of adrenaline constant.
chev		What's that?
doc miles		If you stop, you die.
chev		That's what I'm trying to do... just keep moving... keep the blood pumping... every time I slow down it's like my veins start to rust...
doc miles		Have you taken anything?
chev		A couple grams of coke.
22.		CONTINUED:
doc miles		Oh boy. Well, that's a start. Look, I'll be back in LA in an hour. I'll call you as soon as I land. Keep yourself pumped up. Don't stop, don't quit, I'll be there. C HEV gives the cops the slip and heads into a ...
chev		Yo!   Right here!
chev		Go.
cabbie		 Where we go?
chev		Straight.    Now.
23.		CONTINUED:
chev		ey, crank the music.
cabbie		OK, cowboy.
chev		You move, you die ...
24.		CONTINUED:
chev		AHHHHHHHHHH!
cabbie		Where you want to go, man?
hev		Beverly Hills.
25.		CONTINUED:
carlito		Chevy.
chev		Hey boss.
carlito		I'm surprised to see you.
chev		Well, something urgent has come up.
carlito		Ha!   So I've heard.
chev		Then you know what happened?
carlito		Word travels fast.     You amaze me, my friend.
chev		What can I say. Look, Carlito, I need your help. I don't have much time.
arlito		No, not much.
26.		CONTINUED: 
chev		We've got to find an antidote or something.
carlito		 The shit they gave you ... it's the Chinese shit. There is no antidote.     I wish there was something I could do.
chev		What, so that's it?
carlito		Honestly, you should be dead already. It's a miracle.
chev		A miracle.
carlito		We give that shit to horses ...
hev		I can't believe it.
carlito		C          I'm sorry.
chev		Well you don't have to be so damn cool about it.
carlito		What do you expect me to do?
chev		Tell me you're going to find that punk Verona and his whole fuckin' crew and feed `em to a cage of wolverines.
27.		CONTINUED: 
carlito		Verona? That's just a small time punk. But... that's not to say there isn't an opportunity here.
chev		Opportunity.
carlito		Everyone knows the love I have for you, Chev. Maybe this can even the score for the Don Kim hit, which was perhaps ill- advised.
chev		 Ill advised?
carlito		The heat from Hong Kong has been more than we anticipated.
chev		Oh. That's outstanding, Carlito. I'm glad to know that my death can be of some use to you.
carlito		Don't be difficult.
chev		Am I being difficult? Is this what you call difficult? I don't know if you noticed, but I'm having a DIFFICULT FUCKING DAY, BRO!
carlito		re you disrespecting me, Chev?    Is that what you're doing?
28.		CONTINUED: 
chev		orget it, I'm out of here.
cabbie		You're not getting into my cab wet.
chev		I just gave you 200 dollars to wait for 3 minutes.
cabbie		You are not getting into my car no way.
hev		AL QEADA!   AL QEADA!
29.		CONTINUED:
cabbie		I love America! I love Bush!
chev		Yeah.
chev		Shit.
chev		Epi ... something ...
doc miles		nephrin.    Epi-nephrin.
chev		OK, OK.        I gotta go.
doc miles		I'll call you -
chev		Yeah.
kaylo		Chev!
chev		36B                                                                 36B Yeah.
31.		CONTINUED:
kaylo		Chev?
chev		Yeah, what is it?
kaylo		Hello?
chev		Uh huh.
kaylo		Chev! I just saw Verona's brother going into Charlie O's.
chev		I'm there.     Meet me on 3rd and Flower.
32.		CONTINUED:
chev		motioning to the restaurant) He's in there now?
waitress		What was that?
33.		CONTINUED:
alex		I just saw a ghost.
chev		How you like that one, tough guy? How freaking awesome was that?
34.		CONTINUED:
alex		 Doing your mother like an Iraqi prisoner, you bitch.
chev		Nice ... wonder how many steaks I could get out of you ... A LEX rolls onto his knees, and with a burst of energy throws himself at CHEV. HE SMASHES CHEV INTO THE ALLEY WALL and lands on him with his full weight.
35.		CONTINUED: 
chev		 Hey Ricky, whadya think about sucking me off, ya in the mood? Maybe let me lick your ass or sumtink?
chev		That's right, bro. You wanna guess how I got your brother's cell phone?
verona		struggling to find a heinous enough threat) I'll ... I'll ...
verona		You -
kaylo		What?
chev		Huh?    Oh.    I'm taking off.
38.		CONTINUED:
old man		Asshole.
chev		 I'm looking for something ... starts with `E' ...
pharmacist		England?
chev		That's funny. No, I'm talking about some kind of artificial adrenaline ... some shit ... you know ...
harmacist		Artificial adrenaline.
chev		I have heart problems.
pharmacist		Epinephrine?
chev		Yes!    Yes ... that's it ... you have it?
harmacist		I can't give you epinephrine.
chev		Why?
pharmacist		Just a minute.
chev		Come on, what is that...
chev		What?
39.		CONTINUED: 
teenager		Nasal spray.
40.		CONTINUED:
cop		Hey!
hev		I know you motherfuckers have epinephrine!
41.		CONTINUED:
cop		Hold it right there, bro!
chev		You've got epinephrine on this cart!    I want that shit!
tech 1		He's dropping! Stand by to defibrillate!
fat man		My cart...
chev		What?
fat man		Asshole...!
chev		Yeah, yeah.
tech 2		hat is this? What the hell do you think you're doing? THIS IS A HOSPITAL!
chev		SHUT UP!!!
42.		CONTINUED: 
resident		 You wanted ... epinephrine, is that right?
chev		DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT IT!
at man		... asshole...
chev		Not going to tell you again.
resident		You ... but ... I ...
43.		CONTINUED: 
chev		 I haven't got all day, just do it, will you?
hev		OK ... needles, hate needles ...
44.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Yep.
doc miles		I'm in the air, man.     Did you get the stuff I told you?
chev		Got it.
doc miles		You took it? C HEV Took it.
doc miles		You shot the whole thing, didn't you?
45.		CONTINUED:
chev		Yep.
doc miles		Oh boy. I said a fifth of a syringe, you idiot. Now you're dead for sure.
chev		Right.
doc miles		Chest is on fire.
chev		Check.
doc miles		But you're cold.
chev		Check.
doc miles		You got a steel hard on.
chev		Let me check.
doc miles		 That's the stimulation of the blood vessels ... your urinary sphincter is tight as a knot ... couldn't pee to save your life ...
chev		Urinary sphincter ... check ...
doc miles		Maybe you can get a hold of some vicadin ... you still at the hospital?
chev		Negative.
46.		CONTINUED: 
doc miles		Maybe some weed ... I don't know ...
chev		Check.
doc miles		Well, that shit should be out of your system in a half hour or so, if you live that long ... this air phone is costing me a fortune ... look, I'll be in LA in twenty minutes. I'll call you when I hit the ground.
chev		Copy.
doc miles		 You're a good kid, Chev.   Nice knowing you.
chev		Copy.    Out.
48.		CONTINUED:
chev		 You want it? You want this?
cop		You son of a bitch!
49.		CONTINUED:
chev		Yeah.
50.		CONTINUED:
eve		I was sleeping in.
ve		Yep.
chev		Right, you'll be there, OK.
51.		CONTINUED:
verona		Right, so... let's go get the bitch.
chev		Hey doll.
52.		CONTINUED:
eve		Is this your new look or something?
chev		That's right. You into it?
eve		It's ... completely appalling.    Very you, Chev.
chev		Thank you.
eve		Are you looking for my other boyfriend?
chev		 You haven't turned on the TV today, right?
eve		No.   Why?
chev		Didn't think so.    Listen, we've got to get out of here.
eve		What are you talking about?    Don't be such a freak.
chev		What?
eve		I never changed it back.
53.		CONTINUED: 
chev		The microwave.
eve		Yeah. I never changed it back.   You know, daylight savings time. C HEV I bought you some flowers, but they got fucked up on the way over here.
eve		That's sweet. Are you OK? You look like you're on drugs or something.
chev		You love me, right?
eve		Yes.
chev		Then I need you to do something for me.
eve		What is it? What's wrong?
chev		I need you to put some clothes on and come with me right now.
eve		But ... I ...
chev		I'll change the clock on the microwave.
eve		OK.
54.		CONTINUED: 
hev		 That shit's wearing off ...
chev		 Great, great ...
chev		 Yes. No! ... thanks ...
eve		What's the matter?
chev		 Nothing ... burned my hand ...
55.		CONTINUED: 
chev		It's nothing... don't worry about it... let's get out of here ...
eve		Come on, let me see ...
chev		I SAID I'M OK, CAN WE JUST LEAVE??!!
eve		 That was just totally uncalled for.
chev		 I'm sorry ... look, can we just ...
eve		Fine.
chev		 Shit!
chev		I'm parked out back.
56.		CONTINUED:
eve		Oh darn... the thing.
chev		The thing.     What thing.
eve		 The waffle thing. I forgot to turn it off.
eve		Hello?
ve		I hate that...
chev		You trying to burn down the building?
hev		Aww, damn it, I'm sorry baby...
58.		CONTINUED:
eve		 Nice one.
eve		You know, I could use a little help here.
chev		Is this yours?
eve		Where's your car?
59.		CONTINUED:
chev		My car. Actually... I took a cab.
ve		You're embarrassing.
chev		You know, I didn't have a lot of time to pick this out ...
eve		Hm.   So why are we here?
60.		CONTINUED:             CHEV "This isn't going to be easy" ... as they say ...
don kim		Well? What are you waiting for?
61.		CONTINUED:
hev		Congratulations.
don kim		Did I win something?
chev		Your life, jackass.  A hundred grand wants you dead, so sooner or later it's going to happen. But I'm not doing it.
don kim		I see.
chev		nstead, you're going to do something for me. You're going to get out of town. Disappear. I don't care where you go, I don't care what you do, so long as you're invisible for 48 hours. That's all I ask.
don kim		 48 hours.
chev		Or if you prefer, we can do it the other way, the way where I go to work and you go meet Buddah.
chev		See: I quit. I quit the business. For you.
eve		For me?
chev		figure I call you that night. I tell you everything. You understand. 
62.		CONTINUED:             CHEV Pretty crazy, huh?
ve		You are so weird. Are we going on a trip?
chev		Yeah, well... I may be going on a trip, but you're not coming with me...
eve		I don't understand.
chev		Eve... baby... please!
eve		Mob hits, Chev? Chinese poison? Do you know how ridiculous you sound? If you're going to break up with me, at least you can tell me the truth.
chev		You think it sounds crazy? How do you think I feel - I've gotta live this shit...
ve		Oh my God, Chev... what's the matter with you?
63.		CONTINUED:
chev		... just need...
eve		Chev, you're scaring me.
chev		 Wait a minute. Do you trust me?
eve		No.
chev		Make love to me.
eve		What?
chev		Come on. I think it'll help.
eve		Help what?
chev		Take your clothes off.
eve		No!
chev		You always say you want to be more spontaneous. E VE You're insane. You're like some adrenaline junkie with no soul.
chev		Save me, Eve. Save my life.
64.		CONTINUED: 
eve		Stop it!
65.		CONTINUED: 
chev		 I'll fucking get it up!
eve		God damn it, Chev ...!
chev		Shut up!
eve		Oh God... Oh God... yes...
66.		CONTINUED: 
chev		Shit!
ve		What are you doing?!!
chev		Yeah.
kaylo		I've got Verona.
chev		Kaylo?
eve		What???
chev		No shit.    Where are you?
kaylo		Don Kim's shirt factory.     Upstairs.
eve		 What's the matter with you?!!
chev		 Downtown?
chev		Listen to me. You don't let that motherfucker out of your sight. I'll be there in ten minutes. You got that?
kaylo		 OK, Chevy ...
chev		Out.
chev		I have to go. Please understand.
eve		No. Chev. I DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
chev		hit!
eve		 YOU'LL BURN IN HELL FOR THIS!!!
chev		 I'll call you!
haitian cabbie		 Hey.
chev		Right... just step on it, alright?
69.		CONTINUED:
haitian cabbie		Hey, you not gonna die in my cab, crackhead.
chev		 Nice.
haitian cabbie		 What are you laughing at? Look at this!
chev		What the hell.
haitian cabbie		That's right, devil. You wait.
70.		CONTINUED: 
haitian cabbie		We're here.
chev		What'd you say was in this stuff?
haitian cabbie		I told you: it's hardcore.
71.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Wow.
aitian cabbie		Five fifty five.
chev		It's all you, man.    Keep it.
haitian cabbie		Have a nice day, devil.
chev		Right...
chev		 Wait a minute, wait a minute ...
72.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Hey, what a coincidence, you like this spot too?
hev		What the fuck is this, you working for the Chinese now?
chev		Yeah I am.     Where's Kaylo?
chev		 OK, ding, time's up ...
74.		CONTINUED:
chev		Alright, where is that motherfucker?
ood #3		Uh ... hey, Chev.
chev		What the fuck is this?
ood #1		Chevy, baby, take it easy.
hev		ike this? WHERE'S VERONA?
chev		What?
75.		CONTINUED:
chev		 Carlito?
chev		Carlito ordered this?
chev		Just die.
chev		Maybe you're right.
chev		That's true ... we all gotta die ...
76.		CONTINUED: 
chev		OW!
77.		CONTINUED:
supervisor		You!    Assholes! What you want!
eve		DON'T TALK TO ME LIKE THAT!! MY BOYFRIEND KILLS PEOPLE!!!
chev		Nice.
eve		I had to see if you were telling the truth... oh, and you have my purse.
chev		Come on! Wait -
78.		CONTINUED:
eve		Darn it, I forgot to take my birth control pill.
chev		here's the keys? E VE holds out her hand, where she's had them all along.
eve		My stuff...
79.		CONTINUED:
eve		You weren't lying.
chev		Welcome to my life.
eve		 No, I mean: that you were going to give it all up for me.
chev		Oh. Yeah.
eve		And the other part?
chev		The poison? Yeah, that's true too.
eve		 Then... that means...
chev		Pretty much.
eve		How can we stop it?
chev		Adrenaline. It's the only thing that slows it down.
ve		 So... when we were in Chinatown...?
chev		Yeah. Sorry.
eve		his will get you going.
80.		CONTINUED: 
chev		WHAT?
eve		Come on, let's finish what you started.
chev		Oh boy...
ve		 You like that?
chev		Stay down.
ve		 So you can fall asleep like you always do? I don't think so.
81.		CONTINUED: 
eve		Are they... OK?
chev		They're dead.
eve		How can you... how can you do that...?
chev		I told you, baby... I quit.
chev		Jesus Christ! Now what...?
eve		What's the matter?
chev		 Stay.
stock clerk		He's got a gun!
83.		CONTINUED:
chev		I can't feel my leg.
doc miles		Chevy! Holy shit, man, I've been trying to reach you for a half hour.
chev		Where are you?
doc miles		I'm at my office. Can you get here?
chev		Sure, why not?
84.		CONTINUED:
hev		I owe you again, Doc.
doc miles		You're my best customer.
chev		gesturing with his head at the IV) What is this stuff?
doc miles		Synthetic ephedrine, diluted with saline.
chev		It feels sort of good.
doc miles		Oh, I also gave you a little meth. That's the endorphins rushing into to your brain that you're feeling.
chev		So I'm not... better?
doc miles		Fuck no. You're in such shit shape it's stunning. I've never seen a heart take this kind of punishment and keep ticking. You should be in a fucking medical journal or something.
chev		So... what are you going to do?
doc miles		The solution I'm giving you is acting as a competitive inhibitor... meaning it pushes the poison out of your receptors and replaces it with a chemical... it's a temporary fix...
chev		Then what?
85.		CONTINUED: 
doc miles		Look, if we put you on life support we could maybe string you out for a few days, but at some point you'd almost certainly lapse into a coma... and then...
chev		 Does she know?
eve		 I hate television.
doc miles		f you want, I can load you up with something, you'll go out in a beautiful dream.
chev		A dream.
doc miles		 Can I do that for you, Chev?
chev		No... no, that's not what I want.
doc miles		Then ... what?
86.		CONTINUED:
chev		One hour.
verona		Give me a fucking break...
hood		Maybe we shoulda give him more of that Chinese shit.
87.		CONTINUED:
verona		 Oh ... you think?    Jesus ...
chev		Hey douchebag, thought you might be interested in a little deal.
erona		A deal?   You're mental, dude.
chev		I want the antidote.
verona		Oh, the antidote, huh?
chev		That's right.
verona		And what are you prepared to give me. Asshole.
chev		How about the jewelry I got off your faggot brother, you cocksucker?
verona		 Hmmm.
chev		Thinking about it?
88.		CONTINUED: 
verona		Alright.
chev		You like that deal?
verona		Whatever.
chev		I'll be at Downtown Standard in twenty minutes. You know the spot?
verona		Of course.
chev		Don't be late, or I'll trade this thing to some whore for a hand job ...
verona		 I'll be there.
eve		Do you promise?
chev		I promise.
90.		CONTINUED:
chev		What's happening, brother?
91.		CONTINUED:
karen chelios		Where did I go wrong?
chev		 Did you say something?
karen chelios		Like talking to the wall... C HEV Mom?
karen chelios		I'm amazed you remember you have a mother.
chev		 Right, with you popping Valium like Tic Tacs and balling some new asshole every two weeks... why wouldn't I stick around for entertainment like that?
karen chelios		That's hurtful.
92.		CONTINUED: 
chev		 Mom, I got no time for this...
orlando		You got no time, period.
chev		Orlando?
rlando		ou a persistent motherfucker, Chev Chelios, I'll give you that.
chev		 This is weird.
orlando		But you know this has got to stop sometime. What do you think you are, Michael Myers? They pop you and you just keep gettin up?
chev		I'm the Terminator.
alex		You was that, maybe. But there's a new gun in town.
chev		Don't tell me you're talking about your bro, Def Lepard.
alex		He did you pretty good, didn't he?
chev		Yeah, not so much. I don't get it - why didn't you guys just cut me up alive when you had the chance?
alex		Verona said you was Chev Chelios - A.K.A. Death On Two Legs. 
93.		CONTINUED:  He said you probably been a contract killer since grade school.
mirror chev		Bipolar. Sadomasochistic tendencies. Adrenaline junkie. Addicted to violence... probably spends every day of his life looking for the big thrill, the big rush. Cutting up a guy like that while he screams in his own blood and excrement would be like... like a GIFT... a warrior's death... hell, you'd probably get off on it...
hev		Did you rehearse this?
mirror chev		No, this was the best way for a guy like you: a slow, ticking clock... winding down... inevitable... non-negotiable... until...
chev		 Who the hell are you, anyway?
mirror chev		Don't you know?
chev		 I think I'm starting to figure it out.
mirror chev		Yeah, well, better late than never.  You know you're going to die up there.
chev		 Yeah, maybe.
94.		CONTINUED: 
goon		This way.
verona		 What's up, dead?
chev		Looks like everyone's here.
carlito		 Chelios... what a fucking mess you are.
95.		CONTINUED:
chev		No shit.
carlito		Why don't you sit down?
verona		Wait a minute. gesturing to the GOONS by the door) Pat him down again. He's carrying something.
carlito		Let me see that.
chev		Basically.
verona		What the fuck is insulin?
carlito		 Ephedrine, right?
hev		to Verona) Found a new master, you little bitch, is that it?
96.		CONTINUED: 
verona		I'm nobody's little bitch.
chev		 We'll see what kind of a bitch you are when Carlito hires you for half what he used to pay me... and you take it.
carlito		That's enough.
chev		You'll probably throw boss a nice little reach-around just to show what a good bitch you are.
verona		I'm nobody's little bitch, you hear me? He'll pay what I tell him to pay...!
carlito		I said that's enough.  It's been a long day. But in the end, you must agree, it all works out quite nicely. Don Kim gets his bullet, thanks to you...
verona		Speak for yourself.
chev		Is that what I think it is?
97.		CONTINUED: 
carlito		The Chinese shit.  Hold him down.
chev		Not so fast, motherfucker.
verona		Dude's gone dipsy doodle...
carlito		I'm afraid the Houdini act is over, Chelios.
chev		 Booosh!
verona		 Ourfather whoartinheaven hallowedbethy -
carlito		Shut up, Verona.
don kim		So this is how it is.
98.		CONTINUED: 
chev		Presto.
carlito		Get me out of here! NOW!
pilot		Yes sir.
carlito		 I'll kill you for this, Chelios!
chev		Too late!
carlito		Get down!
goon		Thanks, boss.
carlito		Ronnie James Dio...!
100.		CONTINUED:
chev		Oh no you don't...
reporter		Police have moved to surround the Downtown Standard Hotel, where the suspect ... the unidentified madman ... is believed to be holed up and making a desperate last stand ...!
chev		Present from Kaylo.
verona		 Now what? Now say shit!
101.		CONTINUED:
carlito		 Jesus, man, where the fuck where you?
verona		WHO'S THE BITCH NOW?
on kim		Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
102.		CONTINUED:
verona		You're dead, you're dead, you're dead! C HEV swoons; his eyes roll back in his head ... he starts to go limp, fall backwards ...
chev		I told you I'd kill you, you son of a bitch!
****Dialogues from script :Crash.txt****

ad		I'm looking for James. Has anybody seen James Ballard? You know who I mean? The producer of this epic.
grip		I think I saw him in the camera department.
ad		 James? James, are you in there? Could we please get your stamp of approval on our little tracking shot?
james		Of course. Be there in a minute.
camera girl		It'll take more than a minute.
james		Where were you?
catherine		In the private aircraft hangar. Anybody could have walked in.
james		Did you come?
catherine		No. What about your camera girl? Did she come?
james		We were interrupted. I had to go back to the set...
catherine		Poor darling.  What can I do about Karen? How can I arrange to have her seduce me? She desperately needs a conquest.
james		I've been thinking about that, about you and Karen.
catherine		There, that's better.
james		Thank you.
catherine		Not a lot of action here.
james		They consider this to be the airport hospital. This ward is reserved for air-crash victims. The beds are kept waiting.
catherine		If I groundloop during my flying lesson on Saturday you might wake up and find me next to you.
james		I'll listen for you buzzing over.
james		 Is that a gift from Wendel? It has an aeronautical feel to it.
catherine		Yes. From Wendel. To celebrate the licence approval for our air-charter firm. I forgot to tell you.
james		That's going well, then.
catherine		Well, yes.  You're getting out of bed tomorrow. They want you to walk.
catherine		The other man, the dead man, his wife is a doctor -- Dr Helen Remington. She's here, somewhere. As a patient, of course. Maybe you'll find her in the hallways tomorrow on your walk.
james		And her husband? What was he?
catherine		He was a chemical engineer with a food company.
student nurse		No smoking, please.
student nurse		 Are you this gentleman's wife? Mrs Ballard?
catherine		Yes.
student nurse		You can stay for this, then.
catherine		Aida telephoned to say how sorry she was, but could you look at the storyboards again, she's made a number of changes.
james		Where's the car?
catherine		Outside in the visitors' car-park.
james		What!? They brought the car here?
catherine		My car, not yours. Yours is a complete wreck. The police dragged it to the pound behind the station.
james		Have you seen it?
catherine		The sergeant asked me to identify it. He didn't believe you'd gotten out alive.
james		It's about time.
catherine		It is?
james		After being bombarded endlessly by road-safety propaganda, it's almost a relief to have found myself in an actual accident.
vaughan		James Ballard?
james		Yes?
vaughan		Crash victim?
james		Yes.
vaughan		We'll deal with these later.
james		Dr. Remington...?
catherine		Both front wheels and the engine were driven back into the driver's section, bowing the floor. Blood still marked the hood, streamers of black lace running toward the windshield-wiper gutters.
catherine		Minute flecks were spattered across the seat and steering wheel. The instrument panel was buckled inwards, cracking the clock and the speedometer dials. The cabin was deformed, and there was dust and glass and plastic flakes everywhere inside. The carpeting was damp and stank of blood and other body and machine fluids.
james		You should have gone to the funeral.
catherine		I wish I had. They bury the dead so quickly -- they should leave them lying around for months.
james		What about his wife? The woman doctor? Have you visited her yet?
catherine		No, I couldn't. I feel too close to her.
catherine		Renata tells me you're going to rent a car.
james		I can't sit on this balcony forever. I'm beginning to feel like a potted plant.
catherine		How can you drive? James... your legs. You can barely walk.
james		Is the traffic heavier now? There seem to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident.
catherine		I've never really noticed. Is Renata going with you?
james		I thought she might come along. Handling a car again might be more tiring than I imagine.
catherine		I'm amazed that she'll let you drive her.
james		You're not envious?
catherine		Maybe I am a little.  James, I've got to leave for the office. Are you going to be all right?
renata		Are we allowed to park here?
james		No.
renata		I'm sure the police would make an exception in your case.
james		There's still a patch of blood there on the road. Did you see it?
renata		I saw the blood. It looks like motor oil.
james		You were the last one I saw just before the accident. Do you remember? We made love.
renata		Are you still involving me in your crash?
renata		Who is that man? Is he a private detective?
renata		Can you drive?
james		I can drive.
catherine		I can't believe you've done this.
karen		This is the exact same car as your old one, isn't it?
catherine		Yes, it is.  Are you planning to have another car crash?
james		I'm not thinking about the crash at all.
helen		After this sort of thing, how do people manage to look at a car, let alone drive one?  I'm trying to find Charles's car.
james		It's not here. Maybe the police are still holding it. Their forensic people...
helen		They said it was here. They told me this morning.
helen		This is your car?
james		You'll tear your gloves.
james		I don't think we should have come here. I'm surprised the police don't make it more difficult.
helen		Were you badly hurt? I think we saw each other at the hospital.  I don't want the car. In fact, I was appalled to find that I have to pay a small fee to have it scrapped.
james		Can I give you a lift?  I somehow find myself driving again.
james		You haven't told me where we're going.
helen		Haven't I? To the airport, if you could.
james		The airport? Why? Are you leaving?
helen		Not yet -- though not soon enough for some people, I've already found. A death in the doctor's family makes the patients doubly uneasy.
james		I take it you're not wearing white to reassure them.
helen		I'll wear a bloody kimono if I want to.
james		So -- why the airport?
helen		I work in the immigration department there.
helen		Do you want a cigarette? I started to smoke at the hospital. It's rather stupid of me.
james		 Look at all this traffic. I'm not sure I can deal with it.
helen		It's much worse now. You noticed that, did you? The day I left the hospital I had the extraordinary feeling that all these cars were gathering for some special reason I didn't understand. There seemed to be ten times as much traffic.
james		Are we imagining it?
helen		You've bought yourself exactly the same car again. It's the same shape and colour.
helen		Turn up here into the car-park. It won't be busy this time of day.
helen		I've found that I enjoy burying myself in heavy traffic. I like to look at it. Yesterday I hired a taxi-driver to drive me around for an hour. 'Anywhere,' I said. We sat in a massive traffic jam under an off- ramp. I don't think we moved more than fifty yards.  I'm thinking of taking up a new job with the Road Research Laboratory. They need a medical officer. The salary is larger -- something I've got to think about now. There's a certain moral virtue in being materialistic, I'm beginning to feel. Well, it's a new approach for me, in any case.
james		The Road Research Laboratory? Where they simulate car crashes?
helen		Yes.
james		Isn't that rather too close...?
helen		That's the point. Besides, I know I can give something now that I wasn't remotely aware of before. It's not a matter of duty so much as of commitment.
renata		I almost forgot to give you this. Probably because I know you're going to like it.
james		What is it?
renata		A complimentary ticket for a special stunt-driving exhibition. Definitely not part of the big auto show. There's a map in the packet and a note requesting you be discreet about the location.
james		Really? What kind of exhibition is it?
renata		I suspect it involves re-enactments of famous car crashes. You know, Jayne Mansfield, James Dean, Albert Camus...
james		You're kidding.
renata		Serious. But you'll have to take your new friend, the female crash- test dummy. She dropped it off for you.
james		You're not jealous, are you? You have to understand... Helen and I had this strange, intense... experience together.
renata		We've had a few of those ourselves, haven't we?
vaughan		 'Don't worry, that guy's gotta see us!' These were the confident last words of the brilliant young Hollywood star James Dean as he piloted his Porsche 550 Spyder race car toward a date with death on a lonely stretch of California two-lane blacktop, Route 466. 'Don't worry, that guy's gotta see us.' The year, 1955; the day, September thirtieth; the time: now.
james		It's strange -- I thought all this would be far more popular.
helen		The real thing is available free of charge. Besides, it's not quite legal. They can't advertise.
vaughan		 The first star of our show is 'Little Bastard', James Dean's racing Porsche. He named it after himself, and had his racing number, 130, painted on it.
james		Who is that? The announcer. Do I know him?
helen		That's Vaughan. He talked to you at the hospital.
james		Oh, yes. I thought he was a medical photographer, doing some sort of accident research. He wanted every conceivable detail about our crash.
helen		When I first met Vaughan, he was a specialist in international computerized traffic systems. I don't know what he is now.
vaughan		 The second star is stuntman and former race driver -- Colin Seagrave, who will drive our replica of James Dean's car.
vaughan		 I myself shall play the role of James Dean's racing mechanic, Rolf Wtherich, sent over from the Porsche factory in Zuffenhausen, Germany. This mechanic was himself fated to die in a car crash in Germany twenty- six years later. And the third and in some ways most important party, the college student Donald Turnupseed, played by movie stuntman Brett Trask.
vaughan		 Turnupseed was on his way back to his home in Fresno for the weekend. James Dean was on his way to an automobile race in Salinas, a dusty town in northern California. The two would only meet for one moment, but it was a moment that would create a Hollywood legend.
vaughan		 You'll notice that we are not wearing helmets or safety padding of any kind, and our cars are not equipped with roll cages or seat-belts. We depend solely on the skill of our drivers for our safety, so that we can bring you the ultimate in authenticity. All right, here we go. The fatal crash of James Dean!
james		Is that part of the act or are they really hurt?
helen		I don't know. You can never be sure with Vaughan. This is his show.
vaughan		 Rolf Wtherich was thrown from the Porsche and spent a year in the hospital recovering from his injuries. Donald Turnupseed was found wandering around in a daze, basically unhurt. James Dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.
colin		Hold me. I'm dizzy. I can't stand up.
helen		I know that man, Seagrave, the stunt driver. I think he's genuinely hurt.
police		 This is an illegal and unauthorized automotive demonstration which is in contravention of the Highway Traffic Act. You are all liable to fines and possible arrest and confinement... Disperse at once! Disperse at once!
helen		 What's the matter with Seagrave?
vaughan		Hit his head, I think. His balance is off.
james		Why are the police taking this all so seriously?
vaughan		It's not the police. It's the Department of Transport. Internal politics. It's a joke. They have no idea who we really are.
vaughan		That was glib, wasn't it? 'James Dean died of a broken neck and became immortal.' But I couldn't resist.
vera		Oh, God. What happened? Here, lie down.
helen		They did the James Dean crash. It seemed to go perfectly. But he started to feel nauseous on the way back. I'm sure it's concussion.
vera		Ah, well... We're familiar enough with that, then, aren't we?
vaughan		I'd really like to work out the details of the Jayne Mansfield crash with you. We could do the decapitation -- her head embedded in the windshield -- and the little dead dog thing as well. You know, the Chihuahuas in the back seat. I've got it figured out.
colin		You know I'll be ready, Vaughan. But I'll want to wear really big tits -- out to here -- so the crowd can see them get cut up and crushed on the dashboard.
vaughan		Don't leave yet, Ballard. I want you to help me.
james		Do you live here? With Seagrave?
vaughan		 I live in my car. This is my workshop.
vaughan		And this is the new project, Ballard.
james		What kind of help can I possibly be to you? You seem to be everywhere at once as it is.
gabrielle		Thought you might be missing these.  So here you are at the nerve centre. Vaughan makes everything look like a crime, doesn't he?
james		What exactly is your project, Vaughan? A book of crashes? A medical study? A sensational documentary? Global traffic?
vaughan		It's something we're all intimately involved in: the reshaping of the human body by modern technology.
james		Vaughan, what the hell are you doing? Are you trying to create your own Famous Crash?
vaughan		It excited her, Ballard. Your wife, Catherine. She enjoyed it. Ask her.
catherine		He must have fucked a lot of women in that huge car of his. It's like a bed on wheels. It must smell of semen...
james		It does.
catherine		Do you find him attractive?
james		He's very pale. Covered with scars.
catherine		Would you like to fuck him, though? In that car?
james		No. But when he's in that car...
catherine		Have you seen his penis?
james		I think it's badly scarred too. From a motorcycle accident.
catherine		Is he circumcised? Can you imagine what his anus is like? Describe it to me. Would you like to sodomize him? Would you like to put your penis right into his anus, thrust it up his anus? Tell me, describe it to me. Tell me what you would do. How would you kiss him in that car? Describe how you'd reach over and unzip his greasy jeans, then take out his penis. Would you kiss it or suck it right away? Which hand would you hold it in? Have you ever sucked a penis? Do you know what semen tastes like? Have you ever tasted semen? Some semen is saltier than others. Vaughan's semen must be very salty...
helen		Have you come?
james		Please finish your story.
helen		The junior pathologist at Ashford Hospital. Then the husband of a colleague of mine, then a trainee radiologist, then the service manager at my garage.
james		And you had sex with all of these men in cars? Only in cars?
helen		Yes. I didn't plan it that way.
james		And did you fantasize that Vaughan was photographing all these sex acts? As though they were traffic accidents?
helen		Yes.  They felt like traffic accidents.
vaughan		Get all the paper you can, Ballard. Some of the stuff they're giving away is terrific: 'Mechanisms of Occupant Ejection', 'Tolerances of the Human Face in Crash Impacts'...
helen		We can have a look at it again on the monitors. They're showing it in slow motion.
vaughan		I've always wanted to drive a crashed car.
james		You could get your wish at any moment.
vaughan		No, I mean a crash with a history. Camus's Facel Vega, or Nathaniel West's station wagon, Grace Kelly's Rover 3500. Fix it just enough to get it rolling. Don't clean it, don't touch anything else.
james		Is that why you drive this car? I take it that you see Kennedy's assassination as a special kind of car crash?
vaughan		The case could be made.
vaughan		Take a look at this and tell me what you think.
james		It's very... satisfying. I'm not sure I understand why.
vaughan		It's the future, Ballard, and you're already part of it. For the first time, a benevolent psychopathology beckons towards us. For example, the car crash is a fertilizing rather than a destructive event -- a liberation of sexual energy that mediates the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity impossible in any other form. To fully understand that, and to live that... that is my project.
james		What about the reshaping of the human body by modern technology? I thought that was your project.
vaughan		A crude sci-fi concept that floats on the surface and doesn't threaten anybody. I use it to test the resilience of my potential partners in psychopathology.
vaughan		You drive.
vaughan		Let's get rid of that. I don't want you blowing it up my urethra.
renata		Your friend's still out there.
renata		What does he want from you?
james		Hard to say.
renata		I'm going to leave now. Do you want a lift?
james		No, thanks. I'll go with Vaughan.
catherine		They're questioning Vaughan about an accident near the airport. Some pedestrian... they think he was run over intentionally.
james		Vaughan isn't interested in pedestrians.
catherine		You'd better drive him. He's a bit shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where is yours?
james		At home. I couldn't face all this traffic.
catherine		I'd better come with you, then. Are you sure you can drive?
vaughan		It's Seagrave. He was worried that we would never do Jayne Mansfield's crash, now that the police were cracking down. So he did it himself.
vaughan		 The dog -- God, the dog is brilliant, perfect. I wonder where he got it?
vaughan		Come with me, James. I have to document it.
james		We must have driven through a pool of blood. If the police stop you again, they may impound the car while they have the blood analyzed.
vaughan		You're right, Ballard. There's an all-night car-wash in the airport service area.
salesman		Is there something here that interests you?
gabrielle		The white sports model. Could you help me into it, please? I'd like to see if I can fit into a car designed for a normal body.
gabrielle		Don't. Not there.
gabrielle		Do it there. And then after that, do it here.
ad		Somebody named Vaughan. Do you want it?
james		Hello? Ballard.
vaughan		I need to see you, Ballard. I need to talk to you about the project.
james		 Where are you?
vaughan		 You're making it too clean.
tattooist		Medical tattoos are supposed to be clean.
vaughan		This isn't a medical tattoo. This is a prophetic tattoo. Prophesy is dirty and ragged. Make it dirty and ragged.
tattooist		 Prophetic? Is this personal prophesy or global prophesy?
vaughan		There's no difference. James -- I want you to let her give you this one.
james		Where do you think that one should go?
vaughan		It should go here.
james		I thought that was you, up there.
catherine		My last lesson's next week.  James... my car...
james		What? Tell me.
catherine		I wasn't driving. I'd left the car in the parking-lot at the airport. Could it have been deliberate?
james		One of your suitors?
catherine		One of my suitors.
james		It's Vaughan. He's courting you. Let's go find him.
james		The traffic... where is everyone? They've all gone away.
catherine		I'd like to go back. James...
james		Not yet. It's only beginning.
james		Vera! Vera Seagrave!
james		Are you leaving, Vera? Listen, I'm trying to find Vaughan.
vera		The police are after him. An American serviceman was killed on the Northolt overpass.
vera		I was with him in the car at the time.
james		I think he'll be waiting for us at the airport.
catherine		James...
james		I'd like to register a claim for the black 1963 Lincoln, the one that came in a couple of days ago. Is there a form I can fill out?
pound officer		There certainly is, but you'll have to come back between 7:30 and 4:30 to get one. What's your attachment to that thing?
james		A close friend owned it.
pound officer		Well, it's got to be a total write- off. I don't see what you could possibly do with it.
james		Catherine. Are you all right? Are you hurt?
catherine		James, I... I don't know... I think I'm all right...
james		Maybe the next one, darling... Maybe the next one...
****Dialogues from script :Crazy.txt****

cal		Well, I'm full. You were right, hon. I shouldn't have eaten all that bread.  Want to just share a dessert?
cal		You okay, babe? You seem out of it.
tracy		Yeah, I'm just thinking about what I want.
cal		Me too. Okay, let's say it at the same time. One. Two. Three... TRACY CAL I want a divorce. Creme Brulee.
jessica		It's okay, my fault.  Alright, kiddo, it's getting late, let's get you to bed before your parents get home. Don't give me the puppy eyes, you little maniac. Go brush your teeth!
liz		Seriously? Conan O'Brien? You'd do Conan O'Brien?
hannah		I'm just saying, Richard's a lot of things: successful, smart...
liz		Boring, workaholic, sexually repressed...
liz		Yeah, well, you want funny, go watch `Cosby' reruns. You want a good lay, go get yourself some of... that.
hannah		What?
liz		The hot piece that's been checking you out for the last hour.
tracy		Aren't you going to say anything?
tracy		Almost twenty-five years of marriage, you have nothing to say?
robbie		Close the door!
jessica		 I'm sorry, Robbie! I didn't see anything, I swear.
liz		I don't know, Hannah. Your life
hannah		My life is not PG-13!
liz		It so is. You've never left LA. You pass the bar you're gonna be, what, a patent lawyer, probably married to that snooze-fest Richard. I just worry about you is all. Hell, you've resorted to fantasizing about Conan `Ginger- Dick' O'Brien.
liz		He looks like a carrot, honey.
liz		Hi.
jacob		Hi. Who looks like a carrot?
liz		Conan O'Brien. My friend Hannah thinks he's sexy.
jacob		I think your friend Hannah is sexy.
hannah		You didn't really just say that.
jacob		Pretty sure I did.
hannah		How old are you?
jacob		Thirty-three next month.
hannah		Then you should know by now that cheesy pick-up lines don't work.
jacob		I find you incredibly sexy. It's a fact, not a cheesy pick-up line. 
hannah		I don't.
jacob		Yes you do.
liz		Yes, she does.
jacob		I'm an accomplished lover. If you come home with me, I am confident you will leave satisfied. Multiple times.
hannah		You've got to be kiddi--
jacob		We'll make love and it will be amazing. You'll laugh afterwards and say `I never do this kind of thing.' Then you'll do it again.
hannah		Is that so?
jacob		It is. So now I'm going to ask if I can buy you another drink. If you say yes, we'll have one more cocktail each -- just enough to start losing inhibitions, not enough to get sloppy, after all: I promised to satisfy you.
liz		Multiple times.
hannah		What do you expect me to say to that?
jacob		Margarita, rocks, salt.
hannah		Wow.
hannah		Okay, time to go.
liz		I'll go home with you, you can call me Hannah, I don't give a CRAP --
hannah		Liz!
liz		 Another time, maybe.
tracy		I'm unhappy, Cal. I've tried not to be. We've been married so long, somewhere we became... stagnant, you know?
tracy		We've been spending time together. Lunches, meetings, that kind of stuff...
tracy		I slept with him. Kind of.
tracy		David Jacobowitz. From work. You met him at the Christmas party. You remember that party? They had the giant paper-mach wreath? I kept asking the decorator how he made it? You wore that sweater --
cal		Please stop.
tracy		The last person in the world I'd ever want to hurt was you, Cal --
cal		If you keep talking, I'm going to get out of the car.
cal		Okay.
tracy		Are you out of your mind!?
cal		I'll leave tonight, I'll sign whatever you want me to sign, if you'll just stop talking about it.
tracy		Okay.
cal		Okay.
robbie		I'm sorry that you had to see that.
jessica		I should have knocked.  10. 9 CONTINUED: 9 Silence. After a long beat.
robbie		For the record: I think about you while I do it --
jessica		Robbie!
robbie		I have a picture of you and I look at it the whole time --
jessica		Stop it!
robbie		I love you, Jessica. And I know you're seventeen, and I know I just turned thirteen, which is the same age as your little brother, and you're technically my baby- sitter, but someday soon our age difference will be inconsequential which is good because...
jessica		ROBBIE --
robbie		I'm pretty sure you're my soulmate.
jessica		Listen, Robbie --
robbie		Shit.
jessica		Hi, Mr. and Mrs. Weaver. How was dinner...  Oh my God, Mr. Weaver, you're bleeding. Why are you bleeding?
robbie		Dad?
cal		Oh. I didn't know you were here.
robbie		You're getting divorced?
cal		Yes.
tracy		Cal!
robbie		And you jumped out of a car?
cal		A moving car, yes.
tracy		Cal!
cal		 I'm sorry you found out this way.
robbie		I'm sorry you jumped out of a car.
cal		Thanks.  Jessica, you got your coat?
jessica		Uh-huh.
cal		I'll have to tell Nanna. Uch, she's gonna be crushed. But not right now. She's got enough to worry about...
cal		 So, I hear Stanford early admission, huh. I know your dad is so proud.
jessica		Yeah.  You're bleeding real bad, Mr. Weaver.
cal		David Jacobowitz! Are you kidding me!? DAVID FUCKING JACOBOWITZ! GOD DAMN HER!
cal		Sorry about that.
jessica		It's okay.
jessica		Mr. Weaver, I know you don't know me very well, but I've been baby- sitting for your family for three years. You're the nicest dad of any of the families I baby-sit for, by a country mile.  You're funny, and you're always really generous, and you're the only dad who's excited -- genuinely excited -- to check on his kids when he gets home from dinner. Now I like Mrs. Weaver, I like her a lot, but if she wants to divorce you, well... then I think she's batshit crazy.
jessica		In fact -- and, I hope this doesn't make you uncomfortable -- I think I've even developed a LITTLE CRUS--
cal		 Hey: do me a favor -- can you not mention what's going on between Mrs. Weaver and I to your parents? It's probably better they hear it from us. Okay?
jessica		Uh-huh.
cal		That's my girl.
cal		Hey, Jessica? Thanks for listening.
cal		You put this to that fake ID you'll need up at Stanford.
cal		Yes. Just... yes.
cal		Guess what?
girl		What?
cal		My wife is having intercourse with someone who isn't me.
girl		I'm sorry to hear that.
cal		That's very nice of you to say. She just told me tonight, obviously it came as a bit of a shock and you're not listening anymore.
cal		I bet you wouldn't ignore me if I were David Jacobowitz. My wife doesn't ignore David Jacobowitz.  She screws him.
cal		This is my youngest, Molly. Her two favorite things are High School Musical and her mother. I hate both of her two favorite things.
jacob		Jacob Palmer.
cal		CAL WEA--
jacob		I'd like to buy you a drink, Cal.
cal		I already have a drink.
jacob		Let me buy you a drink, Cal.
cal		Okay.
cal		My wife is cheating on me with --
jacob		David Jacobowitz, yes, Cal, I've heard. We've all heard. For the last two nights, I've watched you batter every poor soul in this bar with your sad-sack loser sob story.
cal		You know what, I don't need this CRAP --
jacob		Sit down, Cal.
cal		Okay.
jacob		As I said, I've been watching you for two days now and I can say, without hesitation, that you are the sorriest man I've ever seen in my life -- don't interrupt, Cal, it's the truth, and you need to hear it. You're sitting there with your Supercut haircut, getting drunk on watered down vodka-cranberries like a fourteen- year-old girl, wearing a 41R jacket when you should be wearing a 40L -- I don't know if I want to help you or euthanize you -- stop drinking out of the goddamn straw, Cal.
jacob		You asked me for advice before, Cal, so I'm going to help you. I don't know why. Maybe I'm just bored. Maybe all my friends have abandoned me for wives and children and labradoodle puppies, who cares why? Why doesn't matter. The point is, you've got a good face, and a good head of hair, and I'm bored as hell and need a project. So if you want, I'm going to help you rediscover your manhood. Do you remember when it was that you lost it?
cal		Yeah, okay.
jacob		Mall food court, Thursday, six o'clock.
cal		I'm sorry, what?
jacob		You ready to go?
cal		Okay, well, this is it. What do you think? Didn't have a lot of time to house-hunt, but...
cal		There's a second bedroom with twin beds so you two can stay over whenever you want! Anytime!
robbie		So... you're like, actually going to live here?
cal		Hey, hey. Come on now, you'll visit all the time. Every weekend. It won't be that bad.
molly		Don't you love us anymore?
cal		Listen, baby. What's happening with your mommy and I... it's not what either of us wanted, not what either of us planned.  But you need to understand that you kids have done nothing wron--
molly		TROY!
robbie		Don't take it personally. That show's like crack to her.
robbie		You okay?
cal		You?
robbie		Can I say something with a curse? One time?
cal		Yeah. Why not?
robbie		Love is fucked.
cal		Is that so? You in love, buddy?
robbie		Well, if you must know --
robbie		What is she doing here?
cal		Oh, right, hey, Jess, thanks for COMING --  I have to run out really quickly, just for a few hours, and your mother wants you to stay here while she's out hooking --
robbie		What?
cal		Huh?
jessica		 The place is... nice, Mr. Weaver.
cal		Yes, well, that's a generous adjective, thank you.  Anyhow, Jess is gonna keep an eye on you guys for a few.
robbie		But I don't need a babysitter! She's only four years older than me! You need to know that! She needs to know that!
cal		I know, buddy.
cal		My little boy's growing up, Jess. He's in love already, can you believe it?
cal		Molly, say bye-bye to Daddy?
robbie		Wait, where are you going?
cal		I'm, uh... I decided to take a class.
cal		Okay, well... Molly, last chance!?
cal		That's my angel. Back in a few.
robbie		But, Dad --
cal		Nope.
robbie		I don't need a baby-sitter.
jessica		I know, Robbie.
robbie		I love you so much --
jessica		Jesus Christ.
cal		What am I doing?
richard		I think you're wrong. I think that's Tucker.
white man		No, no, no. Chris Rock is the stand-up comedian. Chris Tucker is the actor.
white woman		Is it racist that I can't tell them apart?
liz		Well, Richard: thank you for inviting me to Hannah's `goodbye' party. The conversation has been riveting, like stepping back in time. Before I go, a toast.
liz		Sweetie: go into your hole and study your cute little ass off for that bar exam. We'll see you when you emerge.
richard		She's gonna kick that bar's butt!
liz		Yeah, okay.  30. 23 CONTINUED: 23 Liz CHUGS her drink, turns to Hannah.
hannah		 I'll walk you out.
richard		Hey, Liz? When my girl passes, we're gonna have another little celebration, right here. Hope you can make it. It's going to be a special night.
liz		Richard, you just give me a heads- up so I can get really drunk before-hand, okay?
richard		You know it!
hannah		Did you hear that? `It's going to be a special night.' You think he's going to propose?
liz		At the Cheesecake Factory? Oh God, I hope not.  Why? Do you really want him to?
hannah		He's nice.
liz		Yeah, well... Jesus. Really?  Okay. Not my life, I love you, call me if you need anything.
jacob		You're late.  Sbarro's?
cal		No thanks. So what exactly are WE --
jacob		How much money can you afford to spend on clothes today?
cal		I dunno. Five hundred?
jacob		Three thousand.
cal		Okay.
jacob		We'll start with shoes. Let me see those sneakers you're wearing.
jacob		Take them off.
jacob		 Other one too, please?
cal		What the hell!?
jacob		Are you in a fraternity, Cal?
cal		Those were my favorite shoes.  32. 24 CONTINUED: 24 JACOB ARE YOU IN A FRATERNITY, CAL!?
cal		No.
jacob		Are you Steve Jobs?
cal		What?
jacob		ARE YOU THE BILLIONAIRE OWNER OF APPLE COMPUTERS?
cal		No. I'm not Steve Jobs.
jacob		Then you don't need to walk around in New Balance Sneaker, ever. Let's go.
cal		I think this whole thing might have been a bad idea.
jacob		Any man can rebuild his entire wardrobe with sixteen simple items.
cal		Ha! I think I read that in GQ.
jacob		You did. I wrote it.
cal		Really?
jacob		Numbers one and two: pair of dress shoes, pair of loafers.  33. 25 CONTINUED: 25 Cal is looking at a pair of ARGYLE SOCKS.
cal		I'm sorry, I'm lost: do you really write for GQ?
jacob		Your credit card please?
jacob		Take it in there... and there.
cal		These are two hundred and thirty dollars. Can't we just go to the Gap?
jacob		No, Cal. We can't just go to the Gap.
cal		What's wrong with the Gap?
jacob		In Hell, every store is the Gap, that's what's wrong with the Gap, Cal. It's lowest common denominator. Be better than the fucking Gap, Cal.
cal		I'm very warm.
cal		What does it do?
jacob		 It tightens things up. The skin around your eyes looks like Milton Berle's ballsack.
cal		Oh my God, it does.
cal		I like to use a number four on the sides and the back, go longer on the top.
jacob		Oh, okay. Thanks for that, Vidal Sassoon. Tiffany, hon? Scissor cut, tight on sides, get him some texture up top, take off about... He touches Cal's hair, measures it between his fingers.
cal		Eww.
jacob		... inch off the top.
tiffany		Yes, sir.
cal		BUT --
jacob		What are you putting on?
jacob		Perfect.  You smell great by the way.
tiffany		 Thanks.
jacob		What are you doing tonight?
tiffany		I don't know.
jacob		That's okay, I do.
jacob		Yes, Cal, just like that.
jacob		Yep.
cal		Can I blouse out the shirt a little? I like to blouse out my shirts a little.
jacob		Shut up, Cal.  You'd fuck him, right?
cal		 Jesus!
tiffany		Yeah, probably.
cal		Tiffany!  You would!?
jacob		You see that, Cal? The simple act of opening your mouth instantly causes Tiffany to lose interest in sleeping with you. Your personality is actually your weakest link.
cal		Well, that's the meanest thing anyone's ever said to me.
jacob		No, Cal. The meanest thing anyone's ever said to you is this: your wife cheated on you because you lost sight of what it took to keep her content at home -- as a man, as a husband, and probably as a lover.
cal		I notice you only button your shirts up, like, halfway. I can't pull that off, right?
jacob		No. Listen, Cal, I'm going to be calling women over to our table shortly.
cal		We should have some background on each other, no? I'm in insurance, more on the corporate side. My kids are --
jacob		Cal, the only thing I care less about than corporate insurance are your kids. Here's the only thing I need to know: how many women have you been with?
cal		Sexually?
jacob		Yes.
cal		In my entire life?
jacob		No, synchronized swimming. Yes, Cal. Sexually.
cal		One.
jacob		Wow, okay... wow.  Not at a time? Total?
cal		What? I married young. We met in high school.
cal		Tracy was so damn beautiful. You know those women, the ones who can be wildly sexy and unbelievably cute all at once? I never knew how she did that. I still don't know how she does it.  Anyway, we had a bit of a hiccup our senior year but we made it --
jacob		Cal, I literally stopped listening at `Tracy.' Okay, here we go.
cal		 I miss my wife.
jacob		Shut up, Cal.
young woman		Hi.
jacob		Hi. Jacob Palmer.
young woman		Amy Johnson.
jacob		 Don't.
cal		 -- Weaver.
jacob		Can I get you a drink, Amy?
jacob		Tell me about yourself. What do you do?
new girl		Does it really matter?
jacob		It does to me.
jacob		It does to me.
newer girl		And that's when I started writing the column for LA Weekly. God, how long have I been talking?
jacob		Let's get out of here. I know it's forward of me but just... I think we should get out of here.
newer girl		Okay.
jacob		I think we should get out of here.
new girl		Okay. FLASH CUT TO:
jacob		I think we should get out of here.
first girl		Okay.
robbie		You want to talk about The Scarlet Letter, Mrs. Thompson? Here you go: the `A' they're both wearing -- I think it stands for ASSHOLE. Wanna know why? Because they're in love, and love is for stupid ASSHOLES. So thanks for choosing this book, Mrs. Thompson, because this is what I need right now: to read a boring, confusing book about a bunch of stupid assholes who fell in love, like assholes, and then had to die, like assholes. I'm sorry for cursing. CUT TO:
tracy		 Yes, of course. Absolutely, Principal Sapienza, it won't happen again.
tracy		Seriously?
robbie		Sorry.
tracy		It's been a rough couple of weeks, you deserve a freebie. C'mon, I have to get back to work.
tracy		They still make kids read The Scarlet Letter, huh?
tracy		You'd really think someone would have written something better by now.
tracy		Guess I should take it down, huh?
robbie		I guess.
tracy		How is he? I've spoken to him but only about bills, or you kids, but... how is he, really?
tracy		Sorry, that's unfair. Ignore me, I'm almost done here.
robbie		He's dressing a lot better. Going out a lot.
tracy		Oh. Well, good. That's... really good.  We'll get take-out for dinner tonight, okay? Think about what you're in the mood for.
robbie		He's sad. He looks better, but... sadder, too, I think. You know?
tracy		Yeah. I guess I'm pretty sad, too.
robbie		I know.
tracy		It's my fault, what happened with your father. It's grown-up stuff that I can't talk about but... it's my fault. Not his. So just... be good to him, okay?
robbie		It'll be okay, Mom.
tracy		 You promise?
tracy		David, this is my son, Robbie. Robbie, this is David.  We work together.
tracy		I'll be right back, okay, honey? ROBBIE DAVID Okay. Okay.
robbie		So, David... I hear you broke up my parents' marriage.
robbie		You are David Jacobowitz, right? From accounting?
david jacobowitz		Um, yes I am --
robbie		Here's the thing, David: in the end, she winds up back with my dad. He's better than you, in every category except probably math. And she still loves him.
david jacobowitz		Listen, Robbie --
robbie		Now I know what you're thinking: `he's just in 8th grade, what does he know about love?' I know a lot more than you think, David. Just today, I had a meltdown, almost gave up on the love of my life. My dad's having his meltdown now, but long-term? He won't stop fighting for my mom any more than I won't stop sending Jessica texts that make her uncomfortable. And you need to know that.
tracy		You ready to go?
robbie		 Mommy, can we do Chinese for dinner tonight?
jacob		I think you're ready, Cal.
cal		For what?  51. 46 CONTINUED: 46 JACOB To talk to a woman, take a woman home.
cal		Oh, no. No, I'm not.
jacob		You've been watching me do it for two weeks.
cal		Yeah, well, I've been watching LeBron James for years, doesn't mean I can suddenly dunk a basketball.
jacob		Cal, do you remember the part in Karate Kid, where Mr. Miagi keeps having the kid wax the car and the kid gets all bent out of shape because he doesn't see the point, but the movements were actually building blocks for throwing and blocking punches?
cal		Oh God. Are you going to make me fight someone?
jacob		Cal, what's the first thing I do when a woman sits down?
cal		You ask if you can buy her a drink.
jacob		And what if she says no?
cal		You order her a drink anyway, let it sit there.
jacob		When she asks me a question about myself?
jacob		And what happens?
cal		They talk about themselves. A lot.
jacob		And what do I do?
cal		You act really interested. You nod a lot.
jacob		And at the end of the night?
cal		You compliment them, then you ask if they'd like to come back to your place.
jacob		Do I ask?
cal		No. You confidently tell them you'd like them to come back to your place.  Holy shit! You Mr. Miagi'd me!
jacob		Oh, and no talking about your job, your children, your pathetic sexual history, or David Jacobowitz. Okay, here we go...
cal		What, no, I'm not ready for --  Hi!
cal		Can I buy you a drink, Kate?
cal		I'm buying you a drink anyway, Kate, so you might as well tell me what you want.
kate		Really, thank you but it's okay.
cal		I'm guessing you're a vodka girl, am I right? Yeah? A nice dirty martini? No, no, no: a Grey Goose, rocks, extra lime? C'mon, one drink! Picture those ice cubes clinking together. Mmmm. Can't you taste it?
kate		Yes, I can but... I'm, uh, five years sober so...
waitress		What can I get --
cal		Nothing. We don't want anything. Don't come back here ever.
kate		So... what do you do, Cal?
cal		What do you do, Kate?  46 KATE I asked you first.
cal		I asked you second.
kate		Seriously, what do you do?
cal		Seriously, what do you do?
kate		I'm a teacher. Now, c'mon: what do you do?
cal		Teacher. Interesting. I'm very interested in teaching.
kate		I'm sorry, are you not going to tell me what you do?
cal		A teacher with an alcohol dependency no less, I bet that's actually more common than people realize...
kate		I should get back to my friends --
cal		I'm sorry! I'm supposed to deflect your questions... oh screw it: I'm in corporate insurance. And I have children. Plural. More than one. The only thing I have ONE of, is sexual partners, that would be the woman I recently separated from because she was cheating on me with David Jacobowitz who I wasn't supposed to tell you about either.  46 Kate turns back, curious.
kate		What were you supposed to tell me?
cal		I don't know: that you're a perfect combination of sexy and cute -- it was something I said about my wife that's since been corrupted. But I'm tired, and I'm at least fifteen years older than you, and this sweater is called slim fitting but it's really just uncomfortable and itchy.
kate		You think I'm a perfect combination of sexy and cute?
cal		That's what you took away from that?
kate		Wow, an actual honest man. I don't know what to do with that. It's kind of... rare around here.  It's nice, actually.
cal		It is?
kate		You have no idea. I'm kind of a magnet for these jerk-offs. They charm me, and I fall for it, and at some point they just... never call me again.
cal		 I don't understand. Look at you. Who wouldn't call you again? She looks up. It's not a line, it's a genuine compliment. She smiles warmly. Holy shit, Cal is in!
cal		Well, eventually I'm `supposed' to ask you if you want to get out of here. Actually no, I'm supposed to tell you, confidently, that you should come home with me.
kate		Why don't you give it a shot, see what happens?
cal		You're very pretty, Kate. And I can't tell if you're being serious, but I think you should come home with me.
kate		 Ask me again.
cal		I'm not asking you, Kate. I'm telling you: you should come home with me.
cal		 This is my dumpy apartment that I had to move into when I left my wife.
cal		I've never been with a woman besides my ex-wife.
kate		More, tell me more.
cal		I'm worried you have AIDS.
cal		Only a little.
cal		Show you off to my wife to make her jealous.
claire		Oh, I almost forgot -- heard some good gossip at the nail salon.
bernie		For God's sake, Claire.
claire		 It's about Cal.
bernie		Leave the poor bastard alone, would you? I gave him the cologne like you told me to. We don't have to dance on his grave.
claire		Apparently, Mr. Weaver has become quite a man-about-town if you get my drift.
jessica		What?
claire		Lots of young women coming in and out of his apartment lately.
bernie		Claire, would you cut it out?
claire		It's good for Jess to know. She still baby-sits for him after all.
claire		Well, it's good gossip at the least. Ooh, guess what else I heard...
jessica		Madison! Madison, wait!
jessica		Hey, I had a question --
madison		Hey, Jessica, whassup?
jessica		I had a question for you, Madison. It's kind of on the personal side so...
madison		My lips are...
madison		 My lips are seals.
jessica		Oh, okay. So, Madison, here's the thing... I don't mean to be blunt or insulting but, let's call it what it is: you're always sleeping with older guys, right?
jessica		Lots of college guys, I've heard.
madison		Lots of them.
jessica		Even rumors about a few teachers.
madison		Totally.
jessica		So my question is: how do you do that? I mean, how do you get them not to see you as... well, a kid in high school?
madison		Oh, well first off, I have a huge rack.
jessica		You do, yes.
madison		So that helps.
jessica		Yes, I'm sure it does.
madison		You don't have a huge rack.
jessica		No, I don't unfortunately.
madison		So that's not gonna work.
jessica		Nope.
madison		Okay, here's what you do. Wait, how old is he?
jessica		Old.  54 MADISON Like really old?
jessica		Like parent old.
madison		Nasty. Rock on, Jessica.
jessica		Thank you, Madison.
madison		Alright, you have to hook him. Force his hand. Make him unable to stop himself from doing what he knows to be wrong.
jessica		How?
madison		Do what I do. Send him a postcard from downtown.
jessica		Huh?
madison		Go TMZ on his ass.
jessica		I'm not following you, Madis--
madison		Don't send it to him as a jpeg, though. He'll put it up on his fantasy football web-site. And then your brother sees it, tells your mom, and suddenly you're not allowed to use Facebook for a month. Thanks, Kevin!
robbie		 There she is!
robbie		I am not bewildered! Jessica Riley is my soulmate. She's the one! I know it to be true, and so now do the multitude.  No, multitude.
jessica		Robbie, get down!
robbie		I have marked myself with this Scarlet J, Jessica! For you. Because your name starts with a J. It's just tape and construction paper but one day I will get a permanent tattoo when I'm old enough that my parents won't freak out on me.
jessica		Robbie Weaver! I am your baby- sitter and I'm telling you to GET YOUR ASS DOWN FROM THERE NOW!
jessica		 What the hell are you thinking?
robbie		You like the scaffold? It has wheels. Took four weeks to build it.  Oh, those are my friends, they helped me wheel it down. Wave hello.
jessica		This has to stop, Robbie. Seriously.
robbie		You'll learn to love me. I promise.
jessica		I won't.
robbie		Just because I'm four years younger than you?
jessica		BECAUSE I LOVE SOMEONE ELSE!!!
jessica		I've been spending time with him for a while.
robbie		No. You can't. I've checked. No boyfriend since ninth grade. No date for Spring Formal last MONTH --
jessica		He's older. I don't want my parents to know.
robbie		Who is he?
jessica		It doesn't matter.
robbie		Do I know him? Is he from town?
jessica		I don't know. Yes, kind of.  55 ROBBIE I'll kill him if he hurts you.
jessica		I know. But this all has to stop now, Robbie. The speeches, the texts, all of it. It's very sweet, but it has to stop.
jessica		I'll see you around, okay?
robbie's friend		We should probably get the scaffold back on the road before dark.
robbie		Yeah.
cal		 Kids, say hi to Nanna.
cal		Oh, I've been keeping busy. Made a new buddy, I've been spending time with him. Yeah, I'm going to see her tomorrow night. Of course I miss her. You don't know how much I miss...  67. 56 CONTINUED: 56 His voice cracks. He turns, sees Robbie staring. He heads into the bathroom with the phone, closes the door.
robbie		So you're seeing Mom tomorrow, huh? At my parent-teacher thing?
cal		Yeah.
robbie		First time in a while.
cal		Yeah, but no biggie.
cal		Hey, what's with the moping?
robbie		Nothing. It's just... there's this girl.
cal		Oh yeah? You like her?
robbie		I like Pringles. This girl's my soulmate. I'm like crazy, stupid, in love with her. And she wants someone else.
cal		But she's your soulmate?
robbie		Yeah.
cal		Well you can't just give up.
cal		I didn't give up.
robbie		Listen, Dad. I love you. I have your back, always. But let's be honest here: the woman told you she wanted a divorce and you jumped out of a car.
cal		It was slightly more complicated than that. And I'm a different guy now.
robbie		You're the same guy. You just have different clothes. Do you still love her?
cal		How old ARE you?
robbie		 Do you still love Mom?
cal		Weren't we talking about you?
robbie		We are. Your son is in desperate need of some romantic inspiration. So set an example for your boy. Don't give up. It's complicated? Uncomplicate it. She says no? Change her mind. Look at you, you're the man right now, Dad. Get her back.  Get back my mom.
tracy		 You look great, Cal.
cal		Oh, well turns out I've been buying the wrong size suit for twenty years so...
tracy		Well you look great. Really.
cal		Thank you.  You always look great, so...
cal		I talked to Nanna yesterday.
tracy		Me, too. She sound okay to you?
cal		I feel like I'm about to get detention.
cal		Which teacher is this?
tracy		Mrs. Thompson. This is the one he pulled The Scarlet Letter Asshole routine on.
cal		He's a really weird kid, isn't he?
tracy		Yeah.  I kind of like him, though.
cal		I do, too. I'm so glad we switched the babies at the hospital.
tracy		Me, too.
cal		So, how are things with...  How's it going with David?
tracy		Oh... it's not.  It wasn't about him, if that means anything.
cal		No, I know.  59 Cal looks at his watch, a nervous gesture.
tracy		You seeing anyone?
cal		Who, me? No. You know me. No, not really.
tracy		Oh. Because you hear things, you know.
cal		Yeah, well...
cal		I miss you, T.
cal		I got complacent, I think. You find your soulmate in high school... you've got the game sewed up in the first quarter, you know?
cal		I put in an effort when we were younger, didn't I? I'd do anything to make you happy: take you miniature golfing, dancing -- you were such a good dancer.
tracy		I had to be. You were such a good miniature golfer.
cal		All I ever wanted to do was make you love me. And then you did, really early on. And we got married so young. And I guess... I got lazy. I got boring. And I'm furious at you for what you did. But I don't totally blame you, if that makes any sense?  I shouldn't have jumped out of the car. I should have fought for you. You fight for your soulmate. At least that's what our thirteen- year-old tells me.
tracy		He's a very strange boy, isn't he?
cal		I'll be honest: he scares the shit out of me.
tracy		I missed you, too.
cal		Oh God.
kate		Cal? What are you doing here?
cal		 Really?
tracy		You two know each other?
cal		Um, yes... we've met before.
cal		Mrs. Thompson? This is my wife. Tracy.
kate		Oh, so now she's your WIFE again? HOW CONVENIENT!
cal		Why don't we head inside?
kate		YES, WHY DON'T WE!?
tracy		I'm sorry, I'm playing catch-up: how do you two know each other?
kate		Maybe your husband should tell you.
kate		Ha!
cal		You know, maybe we should focus on Robbie?
kate		Yes, let's do that. Let's focus on Robbie.
kate		Asshole. Are you familiar with this word, Mrs. Weaver?
cal		She's heard it, yes. So in terms of Robbie's progress --
kate		Asshole: as in, someone who tells a woman that he'll call, and never does.
cal		We were a little concerned about Robbie's grade on his oral book REPORT --
kate		Asshole: as in, someone who uses `honesty' to get a woman into bed with him, but is actually full of shit like the rest of them.
cal		Because usually he's a very strong public speaker --
kate		Asshole: as in, someone who allows a woman to go down on him for forty-five minutes because he's `nervous' --
cal		OKAY! ENOUGH!!!
cal		I can explain.
cal		She's an alcoholic! You can't trust what she says!  60 KATE SCREAMS in horror. Cal races after Tracy. Kate races after Cal.
cal		Tracy, wait!
tracy		Leave me alone, Cal!
kate		I'm sober for FIVE YEARS, you ASSHOLE!
cal		Tracy, c'mon! We were separated.
tracy		 I know, and I cheated, so it doesn't make any sense for me to be mad at you.
cal		Okay, so --
tracy		I can't do this now, Cal.
cal		Tracy, I love you.
kate		Tell her she's the perfect combination of sexy and cute, ASSHOLE!
tracy		I'm going home.
cal		Tracy, wait! Yes, I slept with her! I slept with our son's eighth grade teacher!
cal		But all it did was confirm what I already knew: THAT I LOVE, YOU! I LOVE YOU!!! Tracy hesitates. Cal seizes the moment.
cal		Before, you were the only woman I'd ever been with or wanted to be with. And now, even after I've been with eleven women, you're STILL...
cal		 ... the only woman I want to be with. TRACY I don't even know who you are.
cal		 I'm your soulmate.
cal		HE DESERVED AN `A' ON THAT BOOK REPORT AND YOU KNOW IT!
cal		REALLY!!!???
richard		Excuse me, everyone. Everyone!?
richard		Now, if we could get our guest of honor over here... I forget what she looks like, anyone remember?
richard		I'm so proud of you, baby. I had my doubts, of course...
richard		Now I did tell you that it'd be a special night when you passed the bar. And I'm a lawyer so you know I never lie...
richard		So, Hannah, I'd like to formally ask you, in front of all our friends and colleagues...  78. 64 CONTINUED: 64 Hannah waits, frozen.
richard		... if you'd like to become a permanent lawyer at the firm of Watkins, Goldberg, and Schmidt!?
richard		You don't have a better offer already, do you?
hannah		No, that's great. I just...  I'm sorry, I thought... I thought you were about to propose.
richard		What?
hannah		No, I just... it's fine. I'm sorry, I just got thrown is all.
richard		Honey, I'm so sorry, I didn't realize.
hannah		No, no, don't be silly, it's fine.
richard		It's definitely a possibility, down the road. I think I just need a little more time. I'm still figuring out how I feel about us, you know: long-term.
hannah		No, I know...  Wait -- you're figuring out how you feel about us? She LAUGHS. Once. Then twice. Loudly. Everyone's now watching. Liz gets a good seat, excited.
hannah		You know what the best part is: I would have said yes! To YOU! And I didn't even want you to propose! Just now, I swear to God: I was hoping you wouldn't propose. And I still would have said YES! That's how pathetic I am!
hannah		I will consider your job offer, thank you so much, Richard.
woman		And you know what she said?
hannah		Do you remember me?
jacob		Yes.
hannah		Do you still think I'm attractive?
jacob		Yes.
hannah		Do you still want to take me home?
jacob		Yes.
hannah		Let's go.
jacob		Is that a compliment?
hannah		I'm not sure.
hannah		I like this song.
jacob		I thought you would.  Drink?
hannah		Yes, please.
jacob		Cheers.
hannah		Cheers.
hannah		So is this how it normally works?
jacob		What?
hannah		How you woo a woman? You take them back to your granite- countered bachelor pad, put on the perfect song, and make them a drink?
hannah		And then you sleep with them?
jacob		Yes.
hannah		So that's what happens next? We sleep together?
jacob		At some point, yes, I was under the impression that was your plan.
hannah		I'm very nervous.
jacob		I'm getting that.
hannah		I know at the bar I seemed confident, but I was more just soaking wet and cold and trying to be dramatic.
jacob		You're adorable.
hannah		No! Not adorable! Sexy! R-rated sexy! Because I know what happens next in the PG-13 version of tonight: I get really drunk, and I pass out, and you cover me with a blanket, and kiss my forehead, and nothing happens... but that's not why I'm here!  I'm here to bang the hot guy from the bar who hit on me.
hannah		I do. We're going to bang. I'm finally going to do something exciting and dangerous and Liz can blow me!
hannah		Okay, okay, this is happening.  Take off your shirt.
jacob		What?
hannah		I need to stop thinking. Take off your shirt.
hannah		Holy crap.
hannah		It's like you're photo-shopped.
jacob		Now take off yours.
hannah		No way! Not with all that happening...
hannah		So... do you prefer to do it here or in the bedroom?
jacob		 In the bedroom is preferable.
hannah		 This pillow is amazing. It forms perfectly to the shape of my head.
jacob		I'm glad you like it.
hannah		Wait, are these those foam pillows from Brookstone?
hannah		They are, aren't they!? I always wondered who actually buys them! You do! The hot guy from the bar buys them! Of course!
hannah		Sorry, let's proceed.
hannah		You don't have one of those ridiculous massage chairs, do you?
hannah		Oh. My. God! You totally do!
jacob		 I do.
hannah		How much did it cost?
jacob		Five thousand doll--
jacob		Do me a favor. Ask me a question about myself.
hannah		What? No! I don't want to know anything about you.
jacob		C'mon, one question.
hannah		Okay, fine, but then we bang.
jacob		Absolutely. Now, come on, I'll answer anything. You can ask me about my job, or past GIRLFRIENDS --
hannah		What's your mom like?
jacob		Icy... I guess? Not cruel, but cold. Very cold.
hannah		And your father?
jacob		He died, long time ago. Left us a lot of money, which is how I have...
jacob		Stuff like this.
hannah		And time for stuff like that?
jacob		My dad was the opposite of my mom, actually...
cal		Nanna's coming over tonight. You guys haven't seen her in a while. Wanna stay for dinner?
robbie		Sure.
cal		Your mom's working till five, we'll have to tell her.  What do you guys want to do today?
molly		 High School Musical.
cal		Well, there's a shocker.
robbie		She still won't talk to you?  94. 80 CONTINUED: 80 CAL Not if that show's on.
robbie		No, I mean, Mom.
cal		Oh, no. Just hellos and goodbyes when we pass you guys off.
robbie		What happened?
cal		Beyond your pay-grade, buddy.
cal		I will say this though: I got close. We were laughing. Talking about old times, all the things we used to do...
cal		 Hey. Get your coat.
cal		Baby? I'm gonna have to turn off the show.
molly		No!
cal		I have to --
molly		NOOOO!
cal		I'm turning it off --
molly		NOOOOOOOOOOO!
cal		Oh. My. God. It's alive.
jacob		I'm sorry. I know I've been out of circulation.
cal		I bet you did.
jacob		No, I mean, I've been spending a lot of time with her. This woman. One woman.
cal		 Okay, whatever.
jacob		Actually, tonight... I'm going to meet her mother.
cal		 97. 86A CONTINUED: 86A JACOB Yes, I realize that, asshole.
jacob		Gotta go. Grab a beer next week?
cal		You've got my number.  Hey. Good for you, by the way.
jacob		Thanks.
jessica		No!!!!
jessica		Daddy?
tracy		Baby! What are you wearing!?
robbie		I have to blindfold you.
tracy		 What is this? What is he doing?
robbie		Okay, we're good, let's do this.
cal		Hi, T.
tracy		Can I take these off, please?
cal		Almost. Kids?
cal		Nanna!
hannah		Hi, Daddy.
jacob		Cal?
jacob		What the hell are you doing here?
hannah		Wait, you two know each other?
tracy		 Hi, Nanna.
cal		Wait, what's going on?
robbie		Hey, Nanna.
hannah		Hey, Robbie.
molly		Hey, Nanna.
hannah		Hey, cutie.
jacob		WHAT THE HELL IS A NANNA!?
hannah		It's me, I couldn't pronounce Hannah when I was little -- wait, so how do you know my dad?
jacob		 Oh, God.
cal		 I'M NOT UNDERSTANDING WHAT'S GOING ON HERE!
hannah		Dad, this is my boyfriend, Jacob.
cal		No. No. No. No.
jacob		HOW THE HELL DO YOU HAVE A 24-YEAR- OLD DAUGHTER!?
cal		I WAS SEVENTEEN! SHE WAS OUR SENIOR YEAR HICCUP! IT'S WHY WE GOT MARRIED SO YOUNG!
jacob		WHY DIDN'T YOU EVER TELL ME THAT?
cal		YOU NEVER LET ME TALK ABOUT MY CHILDREN!
hannah		So you two, like, really know each other?
cal		No way -- you and her... no way. End it, now.
hannah		Daddy!!!
jacob		Well, that's not going to happen. CAL Well, then I'm going to murder you.
hannah		DAD!
tracy		 Will someone please take this goddamn thing off me!
cal		Robbie, take the goddamn thing off your mother!  Bernie?
robbie		Is that Jessica?
hannah		Daddy!
jessica		Daddy!
tracy		 What's happening?
bernie		I LET HER BABY-SIT FOR YOU, YOU SICK SON OF A BITCH! SHE'S SEVENTEEN!
hannah		Jacob!
cal		 Bernie, I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT!
jessica		Daddy, stop!
jessica		He didn't do anything. He doesn't even know.
cal		Know what?
tracy		 Robbie, please get this off me!
robbie		 I'm TRYING!
jessica		He doesn't even know that I'm in love with him!
robbie		With who?
jessica		 With him.
cal		Are you pointing at me?
robbie		Are you pointing at him?
tracy		Who is she pointing at!?
robbie		 Wait: my dad is the older guy you've been seeing?
bernie		I knew it.
jessica		 He doesn't even know about the dirty pictures I made for him.
robbie		You made him dirty pictures? Oh God.
robbie		 You stole my soulmate.
cal		Wait: Jessica is your soulmate?
hannah		Who are you?
jacob		David Jacobowitz!
hannah		Jacob!
jacob		You know how much misery you've put this poor bastard through!?
cal		Stay the hell away from my daughter.
tracy		Thank you, Officer.
cal		I'll kill you.
bernie		Let's go. Now.
jessica		I'm so sorry --
bernie		NOW!
cal		Don't. JACOB CAL --
cal		This man is a lowlife and a WOMANIZER --
hannah		Dad, c'mon, I'm not going to stop seeing him.
cal		Well then I don't have anything else to say to you.
hannah		DAD --
cal		GET THE HELL OUT OF MY HOUSE!
tracy		Cal, stop being unreasona--
cal		I said: GET THE HELL OUT OF MY HOUSE!
jacob		 Cal, c'mon --
molly		 Goodbye, cutie.
tracy		 Nice.
waitress		Can I get you another?
cal		What time is it?
cal		2:30 would have been sufficient but I appreciate the judgment, Cocktail Waitress.  Yes, another drink would be grand.
cal		That was uncalled for. Sorry for being a dick.
jacob		It's a nice sweatsuit, Cal.
cal		What do you want?
jacob		Can I sit?
cal		I don't know, can you?
cal		 `Are we going to be mature or act like children?'
jacob		Okay, so like children then. Move over.
jacob		I'd like to talk.
cal		You still seeing my daughter?
jacob		Yes.
cal		Then I have nothing to say to you.
jacob		Cal.  Cal, look at me.
jacob		You been hanging out here a lot?
cal		Sometimes.
jacob		Must be missing a lot of work.
cal		I have a lot of vacation days.
jacob		Some vacation.
cal		I hate the beach... you've got a lot of nerve coming here --
cal		No, she probably spit in it.
jacob		Your kids miss you.
cal		You're hanging out with my kids, fantastic! You can teach Robbie how to objectify women, he'll love that.
jacob		Well you haven't exactly been around for him, Cal.
cal		Alright, man-whore, if your lecture on parental responsibility is almost done --
jacob		I love her, Cal.
cal		I know you. I know what you are. You are not good enough for my daughter. And you will never have my permission nor my approval.
jacob		I'll see you at graduation.
kate		Our next speaker is not only the class salutatorian, but he's also one of the most...  Spirited... young men, I've ever had the pleasure of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen: Robbie Weaver.
robbie		 I wasn't really sure what I wanted to talk about today. Mrs. Thompson said it might be good to talk about growing up and getting older and stuff. So I guess I'll talk about that.
robbie		It was nice of you to come.
jessica		I wouldn't have missed it.
robbie		So, how are things with your dad?
robbie		Yeah, probably a good idea.  You were a good baby-sitter, Jessica. I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable.
jessica		Wait: I thought you weren't giving up.
robbie		I'm not. But I figure: you like my dad, and one day I'll look like my dad, so I'll just come for you then.
jessica		It's a good plan.
jessica		Until then: a little graduation gift. To help get you through high school.
jessica		You take care, Robbie.
cal		You okay, buddy?
****Dialogues from script :Crazylove.txt****

letty		Listen, Beast. What have I told you about linen?
letty		 It's liver saute.
chandra		Miss Mayer. Miss Mayer.
letty		 Goodness, this is a bad one.   Tip your head back.
letty		Come on. Pinch it, Chandra. Pinch it.
johansen		Well, I have a full calendar today, and I'm afraid...
letty		Mr. Johansen, hello. I'm so sorry I'm late. It's very nice to meet you.
principal gail		The Superintendent was just getting ready to leave.
letty		I do apologize.    A student had a crisis.
letty		A bloody nose...
letty		A bloody nose of epic proportions.
johansen		OK, Miss Mayer. Ten minutes.     Wow us.
letty		No cherry drops, Jenny.  He can't? Um, well, tell him, tell him that they went for my math idea. Thanks.
letty		 No, about work. How about dinner?
letty		 Paul's fine, just fine.
letty		Got to go, Mom.   The monsters call.
ruth		Sorry I'm late.
ruth		 Tell, tell.
letty		So, I got the district to approve my after-school math program.
letty		I'll be running it three days a week, and...
letty		Not now, but maybe later, if they like the program.
letty		 What's up with you?
ruth		Me? Nothing. Tell me more about the job.
letty		No, Mom, it's more of a prestige thing.
ruth		Mmmmmmm.
letty		Ruth.   Calling Ruth.
ruth		 Sorry.
letty		Just go ahead and tell us.
ruth		There's nothing to tell.
letty		Come on.
ruth		No, really. Tell me about the promotion.
letty		Well, my theory is that people can really enjoy math, but they lose interest...
ruth		 I'm getting married.
letty		Wow.   Congratulations.
ruth		 Can you believe it?
letty		You've only known Jake a few months.
ruth		Three and a week.  Isn't it great?
paul		So, another one bites the dust.
letty		It's not another one. It's my sister.  Aren't you happy for her?
paul		She's only known the guy a few months.
paul		Can I put these here for tonight?
letty		 It's kind of romantic, don't you think?
paul		I really think if you're going to spend your life with someone you want to know them pretty damn well.
letty		Believe me, I know your feelings on the matter.
paul		The receptionist said you called earlier about something.
letty		My math program. The Superintendent said he'd fund it.
paul		Good going. I knew you could do it.
paul		It looks like we're both bucking for advancement.
letty		Yeah?
paul		Huntley told me today that if I come through on the Benton deposition, they may consider me for senior associate.
letty		Congratulations.    We should celebrate.
paul		I was thinking dinner on Friday with James and Meg at the Saint Mark.
letty		I mean tonight.
letty		Like right now...
paul		Actually, I need to review the deposition questions tonight. Maybe tomorrow?
letty		Oh, ok.   Maybe.
paul		But I thought if you don't mind, you could listen and see how I come across?
letty		 Sure. Of course.
paul		Letty, please, I need your full attention.
letty		Let me have it.
bobby		My dog ate my turtle, and the shell went crunch. I brought it for show- and-tell.
letty		I'm sorry about your turtle Bobby, but you know we only have show-and- tell on Mondays. Today, we're scheduled for grammar.
bobby		But my mom says I have to throw it away tonight.
letty		Don't even think about it.
letty		Class, why don't you...
letty		 You guys pull out your verb sheets and review them.
ruth		She says she won't even come if Dad brings Monica.
letty		Mom won't miss your wedding. She'll come around. I promise she will.
ruth		How?
letty		I'll talk to her, and to Dad, too.  A few wisely-chosen guilt tactics and they'll be ours.
ruth		Maybe if we had them both to dinner or something.
letty		Maybe.
ruth		You always throw the best dinner parties, Letty.
letty		Oh, wait a minute, now I see where you're going.
ruth		Please, Letty.
letty		Mom and Dad? At dinner together? Are you crazy?
letty		Maybe, though. Maybe it would work. I could throw you an engagement party maybe.
ruth		Really?
letty		 You know what, Ruthie? I better get back to my class, OK?
ruth		And the party?
letty		Yeah, it'll be fun.
ruth		Thank you so much.
letty		Who can come up here and give me a sentence with a "to be" verb in it?
zach		Who was that girl?
letty		Come on up, Zach.
letty		Neater, Zach.
letty		Zach, you know the line by the "a" has to come straight down or it looks like an "o."
letty		What's wrong, Zach?
letty		I don't believe it.    You still can't do it.
zach		I'm sorry, OK, Miss Mayer?
letty		No, it's not OK. You'll never get to college on OK.
letty		It has to be good, Zach.   Do you understand me?
letty		I'm very, very sorry, Zach.
letty		You know what, guys? Wednesday's not a grammar day. It's a collage day. It's a collage ON THE WALL day.
letty		And, Zach? Zach, I want you to be in charge of paste.
paul		What are you doing?    You're going to be late.
letty		I'm calling in sick.
paul		You don't have a fever.
letty		I don't feel like going to work today.
paul		Won't it be hard for them to get a substitute this late?
letty		It'll be OK.
paul		But what about that math project?
letty		Paul, I just can't go. Is that OK with you or am I committing some horrible crime?
paul		Forget I asked.
letty		I'm sorry.  I'm just...I'm so tired lately.
paul		Maybe you ought to see a doctor.
letty		No, it's not like that.
letty		It's just I've got those parent conferences, and I'm supposed to set up the math program by next week. 
16.		LETTY And shopping for Ruth's dress and that, that engagement dinner.
paul		You can get out of the dinner.
letty		No, I can't. I've already convinced both Mom and Dad to come.
paul		Come on, Letty.   It'll get done.
letty		I don't think so.
paul		Of course it will. Remember the big talent show you planned last year? And what about the Christmas benefit when Santa canceled at the last minute? But you still pulled it off.
letty		Yeah.
paul		You just need to get more organized. L
letty		Maybe.
paul		Let's make a list of the things you need to do, OK?
letty		I see.
letty		Well...
letty		Oh.
letty		What the fuck. It's my job.
clerk		More coffee?
letty		Hit me.
clerk		Danish?
letty		 No more bear claws left?
clerk		 Danish?
ruth		Oh, no thanks, I'm too excited to eat.
ruth		 Where's Mommy?
letty		Do you have to call her Mommy?
ruth		Where's the old bag I sometimes call Mommy?
ruth		What do you think of this one?
letty		I'd have to see it on.
ruth		Have you been crying?    Your eyes are all puffy.
letty		Things have been kind of stressful lately.
ruth		But everything's OK?
letty		Yeah, everything's under control.
ruth		What about the engagement party?
letty		Everything's ready for tomorrow night--except the artillery.
ruth		Thanks so much for planning it, Letty. Jake's really looking forward to it.
letty		You better start trying on before the vultures get all the good ones.
ruth		What about this one?
letty		 You look beautiful.
ruth		Really?
letty		Truly.
letty		Hi, Mom.
ruth		Look, Mom, I think I've found the dress.
letty		No, not yet. But you know Paul. He's sure to get it.
ruth		No more. I can't stand to try on one more dress.
letty		Oh no.
letty		Mom, please.
ruth		Go on, Letty. I want to see it on you.
letty		 Do you think I should?
ruth		Yes, yes.    It'll be fun.
letty		Mom?   Mom? Ruth?
clerk		I think they went over to the next shop to take a peek at shoes.
letty		 Can I get you a glass of champagne?
letty		Hi, Dad, Monica.   I'm so glad you could come.
letty		Mom, this is Monica.   Monica, my mother, Martha.
letty		Dad, Mother, you've met before, right?
letty		It's mushroom-time, folks.
letty		You can always call it, Dad. M ONICA You must get your cooking skills from your father, Letty.
letty		Ruth's narrowed the dress hunt down to two, Dad.
ruth		One's a silk...
monica		I remember how hard it was looking for my dress. I must have been to 100 stores.
letty		You know what I think we need? Martinis. How about martinis to celebrate?
paul		Yes.
letty		Puglia olives. Would I forget?  A round of martinis coming right up.
ruth		How can I help?
letty		Paul, can you hand me the olives? Ruth, I need you to, what was it?
ruth		What about the souffle?    Has that gone in?
letty		Yeah, I just put it in. But the squab, I think that needs to be basted.
paul		 Kind of icy in there.
ruth		 Thank God we have alcohol.
letty		Fuck me.
ruth		What's the matter?
paul		Letty?
paul		Let?       L LETTY Olives Aux Herbes De Provence.    I got the wrong kind of olives.
ruth		What's all the dreck?
letty		Sage, rosemary...  Les Herbes.
ruth		It'll be fine.
letty		No, no. They've got to be Puglia olives, packed in a light brine with a flavor that doesn't overpower the palate.
jake		What do you think of those Lakers?
paul		What are you doing?
letty		 Can you loan me a 20?
paul		Sure. Why?
letty		I'm going to the store.
paul		I think you're overreacting.
ruth		Letty, dinner's almost ready.   The souffle...
letty		I'll be back before you can say souffle.
letty		I can't find martini olives.     All you have are black.
store clerk		 Aisle 2A.
old lady		Excuse me, Miss. I can't reach the cat food.
old lady		And a turkey and giblets, too, please. She does like her turkey.
letty		They're not there. I need the ones from Puglia.
letty		They're the ones that are packed in brine, but they don't overpower the, you know, the palate.
store clerk		 Specialty foods. 7B.
letty		Where are they?   Where are they?
letty		Where are they?
manager		What's wrong, Miss?
letty		Tell me where they are.
manager		I think you should go now.
letty		I need my olives.
manager		It's time to leave.
manager		Call security. Where's security, please?
letty		Fucking olives. Fucking, fucking olives.
letty		No, no, no. Go away.
manager		 Call police. Now.
michael		Miss Mayer? Miss Mayer?
michael		I know you've had a rough night, but I have a few questions for you, Miss Mayer, or Letitia.
michael		Do you mind if I call you Letitia?
letty		Letty.
michael		 First off, Letty, can you tell me where you are?
letty		I answered these questions last night.
michael		I know this can be a real drag, but the attending physician on day shift is required to do his own prelim exam when a patient is admitted during the night.
letty		Hillview Psychiatric Hospital.
michael		Great. Now, Letty, I'd like you to remember three items. I'm going to ask you to repeat them in just a few minutes. They are chair, cup and ball. Did you get that?
michael		OK, let's subtract 6 from a succession of numbers starting with
michael		And 85 minus 6?
letty		No, 79. Sorry, this makes me nervous.
michael		It's OK. It's not a pass-fail kind of thing. L Letty smiles uncomfortably.
michael		Now the three things I asked you to remember.
letty		Chair, cup and ball.
michael		Terrific.
michael		Let me shift gears here a minute...  Do you ever hear voices that other people don't hear or see things they don't?
letty		No.
michael		What about patterns? Do you find yourself checking and re-checking locks? Or washing your hands over and over again?
michael		How about arranging your possessions in a certain way?
michael		Yes?   Go right ahead.
letty		Sometimes my food, and my clothes, and my underwear.
michael		How do you sort it--by lace and cotton?
letty		By color.
michael		What if it's got a pattern?
letty		Is this really important? Because I don't think it's a problem.
michael		I see.  How long has it been since you've done something you've enjoyed, Letty?
letty		 A while, I guess.
michael		That must be really difficult.
michael		Hey, it'll be OK.   We'll make sure of that.
michael		For now, why don't you just take it easy while I confer with my colleagues. A nurse should be in shortly.
letty		I did this already.
letty		To be interviewed every hour?
letty		Well, I don't have hallucinations. Honest.
letty		Yeah, and a dimple.
letty		Psychologist, therapist, whatever.
letty		What?
letty		What kind of place is this?
letty		I want to see my mother immediately.
letty		I don't think you understand.    I won't wait.
john		I'm in for 5 for manic depressive.
thomas		I'll go with that as well.
marie		 Tell me more about the guard she strangled.
michael		No, just hit in the head.
john		What about voices?    Does she hear voices?
michael		Not that she admits to.
marie		Is she a washer?
michael		No, but she is exceptionally organized.
thomas		How organized?
michael		She arranges her underwear by color.
michael		Mrs. Hallstrom, you want in?
michael		I'll float you.
marie		 It's been weeks since she played.
michael		What about you, Marie?
marie		 And could I get my change in ones?
nurse gates		Treatment schedules are posted on the bulletin board. Dinner at 6, lights out at 10 and no fraternizing between patients.
nurse gates		 That's the rec room. We show movies there on Wednesdays and Fridays...And this is the dining hall.
letty		I'm really not that hungry.
nurse gates		Just eat whatever you want. This will give you a chance to meet some people.
letty		You know, my mom's coming to get me tomorrow. I'll be leaving.
nurse gates		It's OK, Letty. I'll be right here with you.
thomas		So I said to my publisher this afternoon, I said, don't you even--
nurse gates		 Letty, this is Mrs. Hallstrom and Marie, and John and Thomas.
thomas		 Just discussing my pesky publisher. May I ask what you do when you're not vacationing?
marie		 Let the poor girl get some food, for Heaven's sake.
letty		I'm a teacher.
thomas		As you may have gathered, I'm a writer.
thomas		I don't like to say novelist. That sounds a little grandiose, but I am on my third novel and...
nurse gates		Excuse me for interrupting, Thomas, but we really should get some food...
michael		 Now I'm going to say that the card you picked was the Ace of Spades.
nurse gates		Michael.
nurse gates		Michael, this is Letty.      She just arrived yesterday.
letty		We've met.  I missed you during rounds this morning.
nurse gates		 This doctor thing has got to stop.
letty		I'm sorry.     I'm so sorry.
letty		Mom, I was there, and I just, I was so... 
40.		LETTY They didn't have the olives, and I, I got so upset. I don't know how it happened.
letty		I'm so glad to see you. You can't believe the people in here. They've got patients posing as doctors...
letty		I just want to go home.   Can we go home now?
letty		Maybe I should talk about this with Ruth, or Paul.
letty		You all really think I need to be here?
letty		But what about Beast?   Who'll...?
letty		And my class. It'll be hard to find a good substitute. And what about my math program?
letty		Charges?
letty		Mom, no, please don't go.    Please.
letty		Tomorrow?
marie		Especially the OCD.
michael		Hey there. They're showing "Groundhog Day" if you...
letty		You took bets on my diagnosis?
michael		It's no big deal.   We all compare.
letty		 W ho do you think you are?
michael		Don't take it personally.
letty		You have no right, no right to take the worst thing that's ever happened to me and make it into some kind of game.
michael		Stop acting like you're someone special. You're just like the rest of us.
letty		I'm not the one who's masquerading as a doctor. I'm not the one who's, who's...
john		 He's schizophrenic.
letty		I'm not the one who's schizophrenic. I don't see people who aren't there or run around acting crazy.
patients		Go, Girl!/ Come on, Michael.
michael		Oh, no, you're perfectly sane. That's why you're here.
letty		Go fuck yourself.
patients		Bravo./Encore./Re-match.
thomas		Hell's bells, you can count me in on that. I haven't had enough Z's since I ran those sleep disorder experiments at Stanford back in the 70s.
marie		We really miss doing things with you, Mrs. Hallstrom.
john		I've noticed Letty doesn't much like to do things with us.
letty		Oh, no. Of course I do.
john		Then why are you so defensive?
michael		 I don't think we need to sacrifice Letty to pep up a slow session.
john		 You're the one who told everyone about her panties.
letty		Do we have to talk about this?
letty		Excuse me?
michael		What are you looking to read?
letty		Anything interesting.
michael		This is good.
letty		But you're checking it out.
michael		I've already checked it out 17 times.
letty		You keep the book.   I'm looking for Emily Dickinson.
michael		Hey, if you take the magic book, I'll feel like maybe you accept my apology and don't hate me anymore.
letty		I haven't heard an apology.
michael		I'm really sorry I hurt your feelings. I got a little carried away. Can you ever forgive me?
michael		Mrs. Hallstrom, I'm pretty sure you could use that.
michael		Now, don't you have a gin rummy, Mrs. Hallstrom?  Go ahead, now, just lay those cards down.
michael		Hot damn. Gin rummy. I told you so. You're three games up on me.
paul		It's prettier here than I thought it would be.
letty		Yeah, I guess it's all right.
paul		Are you all right?
letty		That's a big question.
paul		I hope it wasn't something I did.
letty		Something you did?
paul		That put you in here.
letty		Of course not, no.  Is that why you're here?
paul		I think we need to talk about some things.
letty		Yes, I suppose so.
paul		This has been really difficult, this whole thing. 
49.		PAUL I mean, we've been going out for four years, and it hasn't always been so easy.
letty		No.
paul		Especially this last year.
letty		 Especially now.
paul		So, I've been thinking a lot...
letty		I have too, Paul.
paul		I talked to Ruth a little bit, and I think it's about time...
letty		I know. We can't just keep going through the motions.
paul		Exactly. It's time to make decisions.
letty		You don't have to say anything else. I've known for a while that this was coming.
paul		I just wish we'd done it sooner.
paul		Will you marry me?
paul		I had to smuggle it in here. I guess you're not really supposed to have jewelry.
letty		 Or be up past ten or fraternize with other patients.
paul		I hope you like it. It's a Marquis cut, 1.5 carats. They had one with emeralds around it, but this was simpler, more classic in its lines.  L Letty?
letty		It's, it's really nice, Paul.
paul		You can take it back and we can have one custom made if you want.
letty		No, you've done a perfect job.
paul		So, what do you say, Let?
letty		Do you think, really, that it's OK to get engaged when I'm in here?
paul		Sure. We'll save the formal announcement for when you're out. I already told your mother. I hope you don't mind.
letty		No, no.
paul		So will you?
letty		 Of course. Yes. I will.     I do.
michael		You missed out on some great broccoli florets at dinner.
letty		I wasn't hungry.
michael		John even managed to lob a load of mashed potatoes into Mrs. Hallstrom's milk.
letty		 Finally. I was getting tired of watching him try every night.
michael		Was it bad news--the visit from Peter?
letty		Paul.
michael		He looked pretty serious.
letty		He asked me to marry him.
michael		Very romantic setting.
letty		It was romantic.   He's very romantic.
michael		So are you engaged, or what?
letty		What have you done with the ring?
michael		It's magic.
letty		This isn't funny.   Paul would kill me.
michael		Guess which hand.
letty		Enough with the abracadabra.
michael		Guess.
letty		T he left one.
michael		 The audience says one more try. What guess you now?
letty		The right one.
letty		Come on, Michael.
michael		With this ring, I thee...
letty		Really, this isn't funny.
michael		OK, OK, I'll give it back.
michael		For a price.
letty		Good God.
michael		A small price.
letty		I won't do your portion of kitchen cleanup.
michael		No.
letty		And I'm not covering for you when you sneak out to call Dominos.
michael		I want a kiss.
letty		Get serious.
michael		I'm serious.
letty		 Everything's a joke with you.
michael		Here.
letty		The medicine's still bothering me. It feels like I have cotton wrapped around my brain.
letty		I think I've told you all the news. Let's see--the engagement. Oh, and my sister's coming to visit me, and they say my cat misses me.
letty		I miss Beast a lot, too.
intercom		Hark the Herald Angels sing...
nurse gates		What are you doing?
michael		 Not me.
nurse gates		Mrs. Hallstrom?
nurse gates		Come on. Come with me, Mrs. Hallstrom.
marie		Hot boxers.
letty		I can't believe you finally gave me the shirt.
ruth		Loaned you. And it's only 'til you get out of here.
letty		That settles it. I'm never leaving.
ruth		I can hardly wait 'til you're free. Planning the wedding without you has been a disaster.
letty		You're slowing.
ruth		 Mom and I fought for 20 minutes over whether we should go with ecru invitations or brilliant white.
ruth		What do you think?
letty		Ecru.
ruth		And then the gold scroll or the black Romanesque print?
letty		Do we have to talk wedding details?
ruth		Oh, no, of course not.
letty		I mean, you can always send me fabric samples to look at or pictures of dresses. But, it's been so long since we've seen each other.
ruth		Of course. You're right. Besides, we should be talking about your engagement.
letty		Tell me more about Beast beating up that other cat.
ruth		Bloody furry mess, like I said.  Letty?
ruth		What's going on with you, Letty?
letty		Ruthie, do you ever wonder if you'll meet someone else...someone besides Jake?
ruth		What's his name, Letty?
letty		I didn't say...
ruth		Don't even try.    What's his name?
nurse gates		Lights out, Letty.
letty		We're supposed to be asleep.
michael		Exactly.
letty		We'll get caught.
michael		No rounds for another three hours.
michael		Nervous? Scared? Worried you're not fit for a caper of epic proportions? L LETTY Don't be ridiculous.
nurse gates		Letty, you should be in bed.
letty		There's a spider in my room.
nurse gates		Yeah?
letty		It's got a green dot on its back. I can't go to sleep with it watching me.
nurse gates		Sounds awful. I guess we better check it out.
michael		Extra large pepperoni and mushrooms.  Hillview Psychiatric Hospital on Glenfield. Off the Fourth Street exit.
letty		It had this red spot on its back.
nurse gates		Green spot.
letty		Mottled really.   Green and red.
nurse gates		I don't know why you feel you have to lie, Letty.
letty		Lie?
nurse gates		If you feel lonely, or need to talk, all you have to do is say so.
letty		To talk?  Well, OK, that might be good. N URSE GATES I understand you just got engaged. Maybe that's where we should start.
jim		I'm afraid I can't let you take that in without the proper invoice.
michael		It's a pizza.
jim		All the same, rules are rules.
michael		You don't understand. This is a very important, very special, morale-boosting pizza.
jim		What I understand is how low morale gets when you're posted at a guard station all night, Val.
letty		I don't mean to go on and on like this.
nurse gates		It's OK.   It's good to let it out.
nurse gates		Did you ever tell Paul how you felt?
letty		He was graduating from law school, and he just assumed I was OK with dropping out.  We never really talked about it. But I know he was disappointed in me.
letty		I mean I'm just not sure I want the same things now that I did even a month ago.
letty		Is that so wrong?
nurse gates		You can only do what feels best to you now.
letty		I guess so. I think that's right.
letty		You've been so great. I just feel a lot clearer about things.
nurse gates		I'm glad.
letty		And if I need to talk again...
nurse gates		Yes, of course. Whenever you want.
letty		Sorry I'm late...
michael		Shhh.
michael		How's it look?
michael		I like those sapphire earrings myself.
marie		Jesus...just get a room.
letty		I couldn't really say anything because of that fraternizing rule.
letty		I'm a grown woman, Dr. Emlee.   I can take care of myself. D R. EMLEE What about Michael? Do you know the extent of his...
letty		I know Michael's a schizophrenic, and Mrs. Hallstrom's manic- depressive, and John Lockyer has episodes of psychosis, and I heard a rumor that you suffer from delusions of grandeur.
letty		I don't need a lecture.   I care about Michael.
66.		DR. EMLEE You could be lying next to Michael in bed one night, and he could have a hallucination, or a delusion. It might happen when you're driving or...
letty		Look, I know he's almost through with treatment here. And, he's on medication.
letty		I don't want to hear anymore.
letty		First you tell me to do what I want to, then you tell me to stop.
michael		A daisy for the lady.
letty		The lady knows this is a dandelion.
michael		A rose is a rose.
letty		Thanks.    Where've you been all day?
michael		Back-to-back sessions with the shrink.
letty		Sounds important.
michael		I'm not allowed to see you anymore.
letty		Really?    Me too.
michael		I had to sneak by the guards to get here. They say you're highly unstable, have a depressive personality, and may hold back my own recovery.
letty		Wow.    I'm bad news.
michael		What's my rap?
letty		Schizophrenic recidivism marked by hallucinations and paranoid delusions.
michael		Fuck.    That's all true.
michael		Really, though. My thoughts go haywire sometimes.
letty		What are the delusions like?
michael		I think people are after me, crap like that. 
68.		MICHAEL When I was 18, my mom came home and found me sitting naked on the kitchen table. I thought I was God.
michael		Shocking, huh?
letty		Sure. But I took out a whole grocery store.
michael		I wish I could have seen that.
letty		I'm starting to think that everyone's crazy to some extent.
michael		M y Grandma Rosa says that some trees get planted in rich top soil, and they grow right up to the sun, tall and straight. Other trees, they start as seeds in the crevices between rocks so they have to twist and bend to reach the light.  But even though they end up crooked, they're still trees, just like the straight ones.
michael		 Why in the world did you let me start talking in metaphors? That's no way for us to break up.
letty		Break up?    They wish.
delivery man		I need a signature, please.
nurse gates		What is all this stuff?
delivery man		I just deliver it, Ma'am.
nurse gates		Well, who exactly is it for?
delivery man		A Mrs. Eunice Hallstrom.
nurse gates		I see. Can you wait a moment?
john		She doesn't know what the hell she's talking about.
nurse gates		I'm sorry, Doctor. I just need a moment with Mrs. Hallstrom.
nurse gates		They say she ordered...Mrs. Hallstrom, did you order a bunch of stuff, because Federal Express... M rs. Hallstrom's face glows.
john		 Thomas got a crown and all I got was a lousy bracelet?
nurse gates		Your mother's in the rec room, Letty.
letty		You too, Mom.
letty		Which flowers did you order?
letty		Oh, OK, well, better to choose the table cloths first anyway.
letty		This would complement the blue in the bride's maids' dresses. Look.
letty		We aren't allowed to wear jewelry in here, Mom.
letty		I haven't had a crush since I was
letty		I'll put it out if it bothers you.
letty		What?
letty		Mom, please.
letty		Mom, look, if I want to dump Paul, I'll dump him. If I want to screw Michael or live with him or marry him, then I'll do that.
letty		 And if I want to smoke, I'll fucking smoke.
thomas		Mrs. Mayer, I'm sorry but I couldn't help overhearing. I just wanted to say, not that it's any of my business...
thomas		I think, really, I think I'd go with the cream damask. I NT. REC ROOM - LATER
nurse gates		It's OK to be upset.
michael		Mrs. Hallstrom, why don't you join my family for dinner. You'll love my Grandma Rosa.
letty		If you change your mind, we'll be in the dining hall.
rosa		 Send down the lamb. This girl's as thin as a stick.
letty		Oh, no.   I'm stuffed.
rosa		Tell her to eat, Frank.
michael		 You can't turn down Grandma Rosa's lamb.
rosa		Or my eggplant. I make the best eggplant in L.A. The mozzarella I use, it's so fresh it sweats.
letty		I was. I'm hoping I'll still have a job when I get out.
letty		What's she doing?
rosa		Grazie.
michael		Mrs. Hallstrom, join us. Please.
letty		Michael, we've got to stop her.
michael		You must have thought about it. Everyone does.
letty		I just want to see Beast.  Where would you go?
michael		The mission up in Santa Barbara.
letty		No way.
michael		That's where I always go when I get out.
letty		Why?
michael		My dad used to take me there when I was little. It's totally quiet. And you can see the ocean for miles.
letty		What else would you do?
michael		I'd like to drink a bottle of red wine with you and then make love to you and spend the whole night together. And we'd get up in the morning and spend hours lounging around and reading the paper.
letty		And we'd eat Spaghetti-O's in bed from the can.
michael		How can you even mention Spaghetti- O's after eating Grandma Rosa's dinner tonight?
letty		I have a terrible confession.
michael		Tell the doctor.
letty		I don't like lamb.
michael		Then it's over.
letty		Lie down.
michael		It's a good thing my family loves you.
letty		Your family just met me.
michael		You're right. I guess I was projecting. What I should have said is, "It's a good thing I love you."
letty		Do you?
michael		I do.
letty		Michael, I...
michael		It's OK. You don't have to say anything.
letty		But I do.     I love you, too.
michael		Your Honor, I feel I should be released. I'm sufficiently able to look after...
michael		 What? What?
letty		John and Nurse Gates are waiting for you.
michael		Oh, right.     I'm ready.   How do I look?
letty		 Great. I came to tell you to break a leg, and to give you this for good luck.
judge milton		Why have you petitioned to leave the institution?
john		I haven't had an episode in more than a month, Sir.
judge milton		How do you plan to support yourself?
john		My family's helping me out, Your Honor.
judge milton		Where will you live upon release?
john		Live?
judge milton		Where do you plan to reside, Mr. Lockyer?
john		With my mother.
judge milton		Is your mother here today?
john		That's the bitch. That cock- sucking bitch. She put me here. She did. She's the Satan that did this all.
judge milton		The records indicate no major episodes in the past four months. And it seems you have the support of the staff.
michael		Yes, Sir.
judge milton		But I see you've been in and out of the hospital more than ten times.
michael		Eleven, Your Honor.   But I'm on a new medication now.
judge milton		Do you feel ready to re-enter the world?
michael		Yes, Sir. My family is    prepared to support me until I find   a job. They've already located   an apartment for me that's   very near them.
judge milton		Very well, then. By order of the court, you are released. I wish you good luck.
paul		What's so urgent?   You've got me worried.
letty		I need to tell you something, and I'm not sure how.
paul		You can tell me anything.  Do you want to postpone the wedding? Is it too much pressure?
letty		No...
paul		That's a load off my mind.
letty		Paul, I want to break off the engagement. P AUL You what?
letty		I don't mean to hurt you.    I know this is a terrible thing.    And I have really loved you.
paul		Whoa. Whoa. Have really loved me? Letty, it's natural to be nervous. But we're going to work through our problems.
letty		I've met someone else.
paul		Who?
letty		It doesn't matter who.
paul		Have you been seeing another teacher?
letty		No.
paul		It's a doctor, isn't it? That's unethical. I'll have him rung up on malpractice charges so fast his head will spin.
letty		He's a patient here.
paul		Of all the crazy things. I understood when you dropped out of law school. And during this whole mess, I've tried to be supportive. But, really, Letty, what can you be thinking?
letty		I love him.
paul		You're going to throw away our life together for some shared experience with a looney-tune that you misguidedly think is love?
letty		Here's the ring.
paul		No way. You keep the ring.     You'll come to your senses.
letty		I've made my decision, Paul.
paul		You keep it, Letty. This is not over. Our life is not over.
michael		How's it hanging, Paul?
michael		Visitor for Ms. Mayer.
letty		Well?        M ICHAEL Home free.
nurse		Letty, Michael, you have about five minutes until visiting hours end.
letty		Tell me all.
michael		I was brilliant, or at least boringly sane.
letty		So there were no problems?
michael		Not a one.
letty		And did you go to the mission?
michael		No, you goof, I came to see you.
letty		Just checking.
michael		I saw Paul leaving.    Did you do the dirty deed?
letty		Yeah.
michael		So, it's over?
letty		All over.  Did you see your new apartment?
michael		One bedroom, second floor, no view.
letty		Furnished?
michael		No, I need some serious household advice.
letty		First off, you'll need to go to Target. And, let's see, what should you buy?
michael		I better make a list.
letty		List schmist. You'll remember.
thomas		Hit me.
thomas		I'm over.
nurse gates		 Dr. Stone will ask you some questions, and then we'll get you settled.
nurse gates		 Lights out in 15, Guys.
arie		Wow, that first night is hard.
letty		It's going to be a difficult few weeks for him.
thomas		It really makes you think.
letty		It really does.
marie		I'll put in 5 that it's a straight diagnosis of depressive personality.
letty		Are you kidding? With those glazed eyes? I'm willing to bet 10 there was some break with reality going on there. Psychosis. Without a doubt, psychosis.
letty		But what I really can't believe is that I'm starting to actually miss work.
letty		I thought about calling, but I want to wait until I know when I'll be out.
letty		What?
letty		Are you saying I'm through with therapy?
letty		It's good exercise, Mom.
letty		I've already made arrangements.
letty		Mom, we agreed. You can visit, but you're not allowed to mention Michael.
letty		Nyet.   That's the condition.
letty		One more and you're out.
letty		A deal's a deal.
letty		OK, good. That's good. Thanks an awful lot for everything, and for coming down here to see me off.
letty		I have a going-away gesture for you, too.
letty		I'll miss you, Mrs. Hallstrom.
nurse gates		Take care, Letty. And, let me know if you need help with any spiders.
letty		You know I will.       Thanks for everything.
michael		See you later, guys.
michael		Aren't you supposed to throw a bouquet or something?
letty		Aren't you ever quiet?
michael		Where to?
letty		I've heard the mission in Santa Barbara is the place to go.
michael		This is it -- 3B.     Check it out.
letty		Open up.    I want to see.
michael		Close your eyes.
michael		OK.    Open them.
letty		Wow.
michael		You like it?
letty		I love the pillows.
michael		Throw pillows, Letty. The sales lady said they're the latest thing.
letty		Very trendy. Let's see the rest.
letty		It's TV heaven.
michael		I was tired of watching what everyone else wants to watch. Now we can watch two shows at once.
letty		Let's try out the bed.
michael		You've got to see the kitchen first.
michael		Do you like it?
letty		I love your apartment.
michael		Really?
letty		You'll never get rid of me.
letty		What do you say we go out to dinner to celebrate?
michael		Out? Are you kidding?     I've got all the fixings here.
letty		How can you not like the Top 10 List?
michael		I like it.     But Headlines are better.
letty		You're so wrong.
michael		Hey.
letty		It's sex time.
michael		I think it's my turn.
letty		Did I get spaghetti sauce on my face?
michael		No.
letty		Michael.
michael		Shhhh.
michael		Letty?   Rise and shine.
letty		Not yet.
michael		I'll be forced to tickle you.
letty		I'm supposed to meet the principal in half an hour.
michael		I'll see you tonight.
letty		Good luck.
michael		You, too. Kick ass today.
letty		My apartment tonight.   You can meet Beast.
michael		Sounds good. Oh, and Letty?
letty		Yeah?
michael		 You've got one hell of a great body.
principal gail		I didn't have any choice but to include the parents' letters in your file.
letty		Well, I understand.     I know my behavior was poor.
principal gail		So, in light of how the parents feel, and the fact the students are doing so well with the substitute, I don't think I can put you back in the classroom just yet.
letty		Look, Gail, I've been a good teacher.
principal gail		I know, Letty. But the incident with Zach was frightening for the children.  Now if you'd come to me, explained what was going on...
letty		Believe me, I wish I'd understood what was going on. I've worked really hard to get better. P RINCIPAL GAIL I'm glad you're doing well.
letty		I've already thought about how to tell the kids where I was.
letty		And I'd like to send the parents this letter of explanation. With your support, I think they can accept me.
principal gail		It's a very nice letter. But I have to go with what's best for the students.
letty		What does that mean?
principal gail		I need someone to work on budget projections.
letty		Office work?
principal gail		Or, of course, you could take a sabbatical the rest of the year.
michael		I know, but as I said...
michael		I can do the job.
michael		Right.   Thanks for your help.
letty		It's open.
michael		Gosh, Letty, this is a great place.
letty		Thanks.
letty		That's Mr. Beast to you.
michael		How was your day?
letty		I bombed. It's either work in the office or nothing.
michael		Sounds grim.
letty		Yeah.    How was the job search?
letty		Who ever said sanity was fun?
michael		It doesn't matter.    It'll work out.
letty		Promise?
michael		Promise.  As long as we have steak.
letty		Steak?
michael		It's a well-known fact that a red- meat dinner can cure the blues.  You and Beast wait here. I'll be back in a jiff.
michael		While I'm gone why don't you slip into something a little more naked?
lady one		I can't believe he did that.
lady two		What a weirdo.
michael		Don't ever talk about me again, you hear me?
letty		I thought maybe you got lost.
michael		The store was busy.
letty		You got wine. That's great.
michael		Would you mind if we just called it an early night?
letty		You go ahead and relax. I'll cook. M ICHAEL I think I should go home.
letty		Are you OK?
michael		Big restaurant interview tomorrow.
letty		But what about the red meat-blues thing?
michael		You know, we've got that dinner with my parents tomorrow, too. I should really get some rest tonight.
letty		 How's filet sound?
michael		 No, no, no. Not now. No.
letty		I'll never Mget the hang of this.
letty		Hi, Frank.
letty		 Maybe we should make lamb next week.
letty		How'd it go?
letty		What happened?
michael		Four interviews. Four no-gos.
letty		The restaurant, too?
michael		I couldn't even face that one.
letty		That's OK. We can call and reschedule in the morning.
michael		You don't have to take care of me, you know.
michael		 Just promise you'll love me even if I end up in a job where I have to wear a blue polyester cap.
letty		I think you know I'd love you even more in a blue polyester cap.
michael		Coming.
letty		I think I could get the program up and running in the next two weeks.
johansen		From what I understand the principal has removed you from student activities.
letty		She's worried that I'm unstable.
letty		But I wouldn't push for the program if I wasn't ready.
johansen		What about the office work?
letty		I'd have to do that, too. But I've gotten better at pacing myself.
johansen		Are you sure?
letty		I'll call you if I have problems. Scout's honor.
johansen		I have to say I'm inclined to give it another try.
johansen		But, Letty, why don't you give yourself three weeks to set it up this time?
michael		Hey, Letty. Mrs. Mayer.
letty		I got worried. Are you OK?
letty		Congratulations.
letty		 Michael just got a job.    Couldn't you congratulate him?
letty		He's been looking everywhere for weeks, Mom.   It's not that easy after you've been locked away.
letty		I'm going to take that as an honest effort at being open minded.
letty		Just remember that I love him.
michael		Aunt Lily is the one who married your father's cousin?
letty		No, that's Aunt Connie. Lily is the one who looks like a hooker.
michael		Oh. And, Harry, he's the one who likes magic?
letty		You don't have to know all this by Saturday. It took me years.
aunt lily		 What a beautiful wedding.
michael		 Aunt Lily?
letty		Bingo.
ruth		The worst was when I stammered Jake's name.
letty		I don't think people even noticed. I thought the ceremony was perfect.
ruth		That's thanks to all your help.
letty		Uh oh, Uncle Cort at 6 o'clock.
ruth		Sorry to do this to you. But I am the bride.
cort		 I don't think I've seen you in two or three years.
letty		Has it been that long?
cort		You were with that lawyer.
letty		I'm dating Michael now.
cort		Met him in the receiving line. What is it that he does for a living?
letty		Well, he just got a job... M ICHAEL In the restaurant business.
cort		Speak of the devil.  How did you guys meet again?
letty		At the psych hospital.
cort		I would've sent a card, but your aunt and I, we weren't sure if that was the thing to do.
letty		That's fine, Uncle Cort.
cort		 So you were a volunteer over at the hospital?
michael		Something like that.
letty		When he could get time off from the restaurant business.
michael		 How about a dance?
cort		You two go ahead. I'm going to go bother that pretty sister of yours for a dance.
letty		Bye, Uncle Cort.  What's with the lie?
michael		It wasn't exactly a lie.
letty		Pretty close.
michael		People at weddings don't want the truth.
letty		It's not good to drink so much with the medication you're on.
michael		What's with this music? I'll go talk to the D.J. and see if we can't get something good going.
letty		Thanks, dad.
letty		Michael?  Michael? You should come to bed.
letty		Did you take the aspirin and water? You don't want to feel awful in the morning.  I'll get you some.
letty		What is it? Are you OK?
michael		 Always the drugs.
letty		What?
michael		I saw you talking to my Mom.
letty		We both talked to her, Michael. And your dad.
michael		Why'd you tell her I wasn't taking my meds?
letty		What do you mean not taking your meds?
michael		Why'd you tell?
letty		I didn't talk to her about medications, Michael. Don't be silly.
michael		Silly?   Silly am I?
letty		Michael, take it easy.
michael		Silly, silly, silly.
letty		I think I should call someone.
michael		 Don't upset my Mom.     Don't you upset my Mom.
letty		Michael, calm down. Please. It's OK.
letty		Michael, stop.
michael		Not my Mom. Not my silly silly Mom.
letty		I've got an emergency.    I'm at...
letty		1450 North Jenkins. Apartment 2. My boyfriend's out of control.
letty		 No, he's having an attack. He's schizophrenic...
letty		I'm sorry, so sorry.   I never should have called.
ruth		You did the right thing.
letty		I ruined your wedding night.
ruth		I'm glad you called. Now, not another word about it.
ruth		Oh my God.
ruth		Did he hurt you?
letty		Oh, Ruthie, what am I going to do? R UTH You don't have to make any decisions tonight.
letty		But what am I going to do?
ruth		Do you want to go see him? I'll take you if you want to go.
letty		I can't.    I can't see him there.
letty		I was so sure. I really thought it would work.  We have plans, Ruth.
ruth		I know.    I know.
paul		I'm glad you agreed to see me.
letty		I'm just glad there aren't any hard feelings.
paul		Oh, none. None. I completely understand what was going on.
letty		Oh.
paul		How's work going?    Are you back at school?
letty		I start on Monday.
paul		So things are back on track?
letty		Getting back.
paul		I heard about your friend.
letty		What?
paul		I heard your friend was back in the hospital.
letty		Michael.   Yes.
paul		I just wondered, well, if this meant there was a chance for us. Because I think about you a lot, and I still feel...
letty		Our relationship meant a lot to me, too, Paul. But it's over.  And Michael being in the hospital doesn't really change things.
paul		I think I've heard this speech before.
letty		I'm really sorry.
letty		Sure, I understand.
letty		Wait. Wait.
letty		I need to give you this.
nurse gates		He's in Jamie's old room.
letty		Hi.
michael		Hey.
letty		I guess we need to talk.
michael		I guess so.
letty		It's hard to know where to start.
michael		Pretend like I'm your shrink.
michael		Sorry.   I'll be quiet.
letty		I think about you all the time.
michael		I sure know what that feels like.
letty		And all the plans we have.
michael		Yeah, the plans.
letty		I've been thinking I could try to visit you at night after work, and then there'd be more time on weekends to see...
michael		Letty, please. L LETTY What?
michael		Like I've told you before I don't want you taking care of me.
letty		Someone has to take care of you right now, Michael. You tore up the apartment. You stopped taking your medications.
michael		But that wasn't me.    I didn't mean to do that.
letty		Well then why'd it happen?
michael		I don't know. I don't fucking know.
letty		I'm sorry.     I didn't come here to blame you.
michael		I didn't mean for any of this to happen.
letty		Oh, God, Michael, I know.  Why does everything have to be so hard?
letty		What are we going to do?
michael		What do you want to do?
letty		I know I don't want to lose you.     I don't think I could stand it.
michael		Yeah, but can you stand to be with me like this?
letty		No. I can't, Michael. I'm so sorry, but I just can't handle all this right now.
michael		I know.   I can't either.
letty		I love you so much.
michael		I love you too, Letty.     I love you, too.
letty		Maybe we could just run away to Tahiti and live on the beach.
michael		That's the best idea I've heard in a long time.
letty		Don't you have a magic trick or something to make this easier?
michael		How about something better?   Like a kiss. T he couple kisses more tenderly than ever before.
letty		I can still come visit you, you know.
michael		Would that really be such a good idea for either of us?
letty		Just promise me you'll be OK, OK?
michael		I will. And you make sure you take care of yourself.
michael		Promise you won't fall for any guys pretending to be doctors.
letty		I guess I should go now.
michael		You should go.
letty		First of all, I want to welcome you to MathShop. I have lots of fun games planned for us.  Let's see, Bobby, can you help me pass out these cards?
letty		Is something wrong, Bobby?
bobby		Why were you gone so long?
jenny		My mom said you went crazy.
letty		I had what some people call a nervous breakdown. I wasn't dealing with life so well so I went...
bobby		To a place for psychos.
letty		To a psychiatric institution. J ENNY What's that?
letty		It's a place where you figure out what you want, and what things in your life aren't working. You learn to look out for yourself and not get...
letty		Let me show you the best thing I learned.
****Dialogues from script :Creation.txt****

darwin		One day, Captain Fitzroy went ashore to meet them.
technician		Not long now. I shall be with you immediately...
annie		Will this hurt, papa?
darwin		No. It is only a beam of light.
annie		How can light make a picture.
darwin		Well they prepare a copper plate with chemicals on it. The chemicals are sort of energized by the light reflecting off your face. Then silver sticks onto the plate according to where the light is brightest.
annie		Betty was worried it would hurt. ....What a little duck she is.
darwin		So as I was saying, Captain Fitzroy went ashore to interview the Fuegans....
sailors		Ow! Shite! Hold still ye maggot!
darwin		The captain had them washed and got their hair cut, then dressed them in proper clothes, and taught them proper table manners.
darwin		York Minster died of the smallpox but the other two learned English and went to meet the queen.
darwin		Two years later. Captain Fitzroy and I took them back, in the company of a young Parson, hoping they would bring the other savages to god and to teach the others by example.
darwin		And what do you think happened?
darwin		 Correct! A complete and total failure! 6
hairy savages		YAAAAAH!!
parson		Jemmy! Fuegia
annie		 Yaaah!
technician		Very still now. No more talking please
lenny		Mama mama.
emma		Yes. What is it
lenny		Horace says he's six feet tall.
emma		Have you all washed your hands.
horace		He said I have to be or I can't join the army.
emma		First things first. An officer must always tuck his shirt in.
betty		The boys made a camp with a camp- fire
lenny		Oh! Sneak!
emma		Where's the campfire.
betty		In the summer house but Brodie put it out.
emma		Thank-you Parslow. Where is Mr Darwin?
parslow		He was killing pigeons Ma'am
emma		Will everybody sit down please. 8
parslow		Soup du jour, sir
darwin		Thank you Parslow
emma		Lord God who watches over all that we do. Bless this family and the food we eat. In Jesus name. Amen.
emma		I hear Mr Hooker is coming tomorrow.
darwin		He won't stay long.
emma		Did he say what it was about?
darwin		I think this is not the time to discuss it.
emma		Maybe the time to discuss it was before you invited him.
darwin		He sent a telegram. I'm sorry if it inconveniences you. 9
emma		Eat your soup now.
darwin		 Excuse me.
children		Can we take Mr Hooker to the Chalk pits. Why can't he stay. Can we pick blackberries?
emma		I think he is just here to work
annie		Aren't you going to open it?
darwin		Maybe best if I just burn the whole lot.
annie		 No papa - You can't. I'm in it.
darwin		Don't be absurd. Of course you're not.
annie		The story of me when I was small. You showed me the pages.
darwin		Ah yes.
annie		"The natural History of babies" ...Remember?
darwin		Of course I remember.
darwin		Annie. Annie. Annie.
emma		 What are you doing?
darwin		Just playing.
emma		"Six weeks: Gurgles. Holds tight to my finger. Tries to suck. Smiles at my smile"
darwin		I should add that she is musical.
emma		I hope you do not plan to treat all our children as little animacules to be included in your experiments.
darwin		Do you mean there will be more.
emma		I assumed that's what you wanted. Of course, if the idea doesn't appeal then...
darwin		Appeal? Dearest cousin. I am making plans for an army!
brodie		Careful! Not too far ahead now.  The children ignore her so she pick up her skirts and races after them.  The Adults follow in their wake - Charles and Emma Darwin plus two younger men aged about 30 - Joe Hooker and the Rev Innes
hooker		Give it time to take a bite.
hooker		He's Nibbling. Nibbling. Oh Bother. No-one move.
annie		I've got one.
annie		What should I feed it?
mr innes		A leaf I should think. What plant did you find him on?
annie		In the mud under that log.
mr innes		...Or a piece of bark maybe.
darwin		Cycrus caraboides. You can see from the mandibles he's a hunter. He feeds on slugs and snails.
innes		Oh.
annie		Etty! Willy! Find me some slugs. He's hungry!
innes		When I said I knew something of insects.....
darwin		Oh tush.... I studied Theology for a year but yet I know exceedingly little of the bible.
innes		Then once I am properly installed at Down I shall take pleasure in instructing you.
darwin		I should look forward to that immensely.
hooker		Everyone's a bit wet. Sorry, but the fish are surely biting. More worms, boys, more worms.
hooker		Try over there, Georgey, we've used all these ones up.
darwin		....so much beauty for so little purpose.
emma		Surely not without purpose. They were helping to light the ship's way were they not.
darwin		Are you familiar with the works of Thomas Malthus, Mr Innes?.
innes		He married his first cousin didn't he?
emma		So did Charles.... So did I.
innes		Oh, I was not at all suggesting....
darwin		He made the point that if every trout, say, has a hundred offspring And so on and so on through the generations. Then the planet would be knee deep in trout in just a few decades.
innes		Of course most of the eggs are destroyed and eaten so the numbers remain stable. That is the beauty of God's plan.
emma		Cheese and cucumber
innes		Thank-you
darwin		It doesn't strike you as an exceedingly wasteful plan - these myriad lives created only to be immediately extinguished.
emma		 Charles....
innes		 They are providing food for others.
darwin		You think they are happy about it?
innes		Happy?
hooker		Through his bottom and up though his mouth - perfect 16
darwin		....To be doing Gods will.
emma		 Please ignore him. After two glasses of claret he tends to becomes mischievous.
darwin		No I'm serious. If thousands are destroyed that a few may live their lives, is not the general sum total of happiness not in some kind of massive deficit?
innes		Well far be it from me to speculate on the mind of God, far less the happiness of an earthworm ha ha ha. But it seems to me that nature is at peace...and most of her denizens are content.
emma		Amen.
innes		 You don't agree.
darwin		I think it is a battlefield. A constant and shifting struggle for survival between everything and everything else.
emma		I really do think men have a problem with natural beauty. They cannot ever just accept it for what it is.  Tell me of your wife Mr Innes.
mrs davies		What is he doing now, exactly?
brodie		Cutting the grass with nail scissors.
mrs davies		Such a shame he never had a proper job. At least your Mr Thackeray had his books to write. 18
emma		Chop chop Georgie. Socks! And you have not buttoned your trousers.
annie		Did you never think of getting married Miss Brodie.
brodie		Once. But he went to Australia and I missed my chance.
brodie		Master William. Hairbrush.
willy		Ow. Ow!
brodie		Well what do you expect. It is a birds nest.
willy		Papa says God doesn't care if we are neat.
brodie		 Your father is a very wize man but has a small understanding of religion. No-one can read what goes down in Gods great book of accounts. ....Fingernails.
brodie		You can go.
emma		Mrs Davies, Will you ask Jenny to wear a bonnet. I would not like people to think her fast.
willy		Can I bring my mouse for a blessing?
emma		What mouse?
george		Elsie caught it in the barn. We need to pray for his soul
emma		Mice don't have souls. Leave it on the window sill. Everyone come now or we shall be late.
emma		Reverend Innes.
innes		 Ma'am. Welcome. Welcome
darwin		Ring the two milky pouters. We'll sacrifice the tumblers and skeletonize them. Then...
boys		It's Mr Hooker. It's Mr Hooker!
parsolow		Then... what Sir?
darwin		Just. ...to the shed with them. I shall clean myself up.
hooker		Good choice Horace. I shall be Lord Raglan and watch the slaughter from a safe distance.
boys		- Will you give us a piggy-back? - Lenny cut his foot on a nail. There was lots of blood!
hooker		Emma. Forgive the short notice. You know Thomas Huxley.
emma		Only by reputation
huxley		Mrs Darwin.
hooker		He insisted on coming and I could not refuse him.
emma		Tell papa his visitors are here.
lenny		He knows already.
horace		He went that way.
emma		Anyway. Come in please. Come in.
franky		Sir, Is it true when you were in the Himalayas you were imprisoned by the king of Sikkim?
hooker		Absolutely true.
lenny		And he thought you were a spy for stealing his rhododendrons?
hooker		That's approximately true.
franky		....and he wouldn't let you leave unless you agreed to marry his fattest daughter. 23
hooker		Yes.  ....but you are never to tell my wife that!
emma		Children leave Mr Hooker alone now. I'm sure he has more important things to discuss.
hooker		Not really, but I think Mr Huxley does....
hooker		I have my heart set on a cup of tea and one of Mrs Davies' scones.
mrs davies		I'll do that ma'am. Please. Let me do it.
huxley		We're reforming the Linnean. The committee will comprise myself, Lyell, Huxley...yourself of course if you are willing. 24
huxley		We intend to reclaim science as a profession - wrest it away from the country parsons and beetle- collectors. Your book will be our rallying point.
huxley		I have read your detailed abstract. The argument is complete and utterly compelling. All that is lacking is the detail and we know you have that in abundance. Your barnacle work has established you as the pre- eminent authority on marine life.
hooker		In which the whole story of creation can be read. Do not pretend to me that was not your intention.
huxley		A "family tree" of barnacles stretching back 300 million years to the time it was a free swimming prawn!.
hooker		Of course with gaps! But that is the very point. If we but had the complete fossil record we could trace all life back to one speck of protoplasm. The branching of forms in ever more complex succession...until.
hooker		Mr Darwin. Either you are being disingenuous or you do not fully understand you own accomplishment. You have killed God.
huxley		....and good riddance to the bearded malicious old bugger!
darwin		 Please I must beg of you....
huxley		No. I must beg of you sir. Joseph Hooker we know is too nice a chap to do it. You are a fine and brilliant man who hates to give offence - an admirable quality - wish I had it myself. But what do we believe? What do we know to be true. Will you light the way or leave us all to flounder in the mire for another decade.
hooker		Are you alright?
huxley		It is time to write your book Mr Darwin. Write it brilliantly as we all know you can. Strike hard and fast with a blow that is utterly conclusive.
darwin		 Sir, you are talking like a revolutionary and really...
huxley		It is a revolution. And not before time.  26
darwin		And you'd replace Gods Laws with what.
huxley		The laws of logic. The laws of nature.
darwin		Knowing, as we do, that most capital crimes are her everyday practises: Theft, rape, murder, adultery, infanticide....
darwin		We live in a society bound together by the church. An improbable sort of barque I grant you but at least it floats. You suggest we change all that at a stroke. You wish me to rebuild, plank by plank, the very vessel we are sailing in.
emma		Mr Hooker.
emma		I beg you, please don't push him.
hooker		No-one can push Charles. You know how fixed he is. Bit of a barnacle himself ... his own words.
emma		And if you prize him from his rock he will die. I know you all mean well but.... 27
coachman		 All aboard!
huxley		We'll meet again, Mr Darwin
huxley		What did she say to you?
hooker		That it was killing him.
huxley		A mighty slow death considering the time he's spent. We'll be dead and buried ourselves if he prevaricates much longer.
annie		Why are you scared?
darwin		Like you said. You're in it.
annie		Its only a book, silly.
darwin		What are you doing, Annie?
annie		I'm making you beautiful.
darwin		I have to work.
annie		Breath in, papa. Breathe out. Now Tell me a story.
darwin		I have no time....
annie		About Jenny. Please?
darwin		Why do you always ask for Jenny? Its so sad.
annie		That's why I like it. It makes me cry. 29
darwin		Once apon a time there was a family of Orang-u-tangs living in the jungles of darkest Borneo
darwin		Their eldest daughter was the most loving, caring and trusting Orang of all.
darwin		But these qualities in themselves cannot guarantee an ape's survival. Sometimes, quite the reverse.
darwin		When she realized her danger it was too late.
darwin		They put her in a bag and carried her off.... 30
annie		" much to her loving parent's sorrow."
darwin		Exactly.
darwin		The hunters sold her the to the Sultan who promptly sold her to a visiting Englishman who packed her aboard a sailing ship and brought her to London zoo.
darwin		In London she had many admirers - of whom your father was but one.
darwin		Hoo hoo hoo hoo.
darwin		Hm?
charles		Wait, sorry, wait - I've got something else here for you
charles		 Ahhhh!!
charles		Hew Hew Hew... 32
jenny		 Hmph.  Meaning: "OK then, I'm sorry."  It's such a complex human reaction - grudging contrition - that Charles laughs aloud with pleasure.  Jenny laughs.  Charles takes out a mouth organ and plays a snatch of Chopin.  Jenny covers her ears and chatters. "Not listening not listening!"  Charles, insulted, stops playing.  Jenny laughs waves a hand as if to say: "Play, if it amuses you. I'm must kidding."
annie		Go on papa.
darwin		Go on what.
annie		The bit where she gets sick and dies.
darwin		No. Why do you want to hear that bit?
annie		I just like it. It makes me cry.
emma		Are you coming to bed?
darwin		Presently.
emma		What did Huxley want?
darwin		He thinks I should write it and be done with it. He feels it is a question of moral courage ...or the lack of it.
emma		You did not tell him about your health.
darwin		His theory is that I am making myself ill by holding back. That I should lance the boil. Plunge in and hang the consequences.
emma		Thank the Lord he is not a surgeon.
darwin		I've concluded he is right. Bite the gag. Speed is everything. It will all be over in a matter of months.
emma		It is not mere months that concern me Charles. Nor even years or decades...
emma		Do you really care   so little for your immortal soul   - for the knowledge that you   and I may never be together,   in all of eternity.
darwin		 You know that what concerns you concerns me also. What do think has held me in limbo all these years.
darwin		Dearest Emma. You know This is not a decision made lightly....
congregation		All   things bright and beautiful, all   creatures great and small. All   things wize and wonderful, The   lord God made them all.
darwin family		All things bright and beautiful all creatures great and small. All things wize and wonderful the Lord God made them all.
innes		Let us pray.
innes		Teach us that all misfortune. All sickness and death, all the trials and miseries of which we daily complain are intended for our good, being not the vagaries of an uncaring universe but the corrections of a wize and affectionate parent
darwin		Excuse me
innes		Turn with me now to the book of Job, Chapter Two verse twelve
beadle		Are you all right, sir?
darwin		Never better. Thank-you.
annie		Shh
franky		 What are we looking at? 38
darwin		A weasel.
annie		NO!
annie		No! No! Stop it. Daddy. Stop it. Make it stop.
darwin		Annie, Annie, Annie.
george		The chickens do that too when cookie kills them
annie		 39
darwin		The weasel has to eat. Its the way of the world. Annie
annie		Its not fair. Its not fair.
darwin		No, its not fair at all.
darwin		....but still it is extraordinary, do you not think, that a weasel should learn to dance the polka.
emma		Good-night Lenny.
emma		Good-night Betty.
darwin		Good-night George
emma		Good-night Etty.
darwin		Good-night Willy 40
emma		Dear Charles
darwin		Dearest Emma
emma		"Loving she is, and tractable though wild. And innocence hath privilege in her. To dignify arch looks and laughing eyes; And feats of cunning; and the pretty round Of trespasses, affected to provoke Mock chastisement, and partnership in play"
darwin		 Then we were wrong. She is not unique after all.
darwin		This is Devonian, about 400 million years ago. Rocks like this might have fishes in them, trilobites, tree ferns, corals maybe....
etty		Is this a bit?
darwin		No that is Cretaceous Etty. It was made a hundred millions years ago, when this cliff was a coral reef and Down village was a swamp full of great crocodiles.
darwin		We might find oysters and sponges imprinted in it, or dinosaurs if we were lucky...
george		What's a dinosaur?
etty		Professor Owen invented them.
darwin		They are the giant lizards which lived on earth before there were any humans.
betty		But they weren't real
darwin		Of course they are, Betty. Did I never tell you of the skeletons I found in South America  Do you remember Mr Martell?
etty		No.
annie		Yes you do. When he came to tea and showed us drawings of his Iguanodon. And George burnt his fingers roasting chestnuts.
etty		Oh yes.
annie		She doesn't remember.
darwin		You should have your clothes on Annie. You are quite blue.
annie		Savages don't swear clothes.
annie		I'm a Fuegan.
darwin		Well don't fall and hurt yourself. Your mother would never forgive me.
darwin		Annie!
annie		I've found one!
innes		First positions.
innes		Second positions.
innes		Assume the distance.
innes		.....and begin.
darwin		Dearest Hooker. I am one week into the great project and I feel at last that it is real. Its title is "On the Origin of Species." As I write theses words why does it feel as though I am confessing to a murder...
emma		Are you listening, Annie?
darwin		What happened?
annie		Nothing.
darwin		Its not nothing.  Why are your knees bleeding? 45
emma		Mr Innes had to have words with her. It is sorted now.
darwin		Words are very well. I am asking what happened to her knees.
annie		Mr Innes sent me to the corner and made me kneel on rock-salt.
darwin		What!
annie		 I said there were dinosaurs and he said there wasn't dinosaurs but there were because you saw them.
emma		 Annie. Let me talk to your father. He told her to kneel til she repented...
darwin		Repented what?
emma		The bleeding is due to her own stubborn-ness. It is finished now.
darwin		It is by no means finished. Where is my coat. Its intolerable
emma		Charles. Please.
emma		Mr Innes is a dear friend and neighbor. I beg you at least appraise yourself the facts. She contradicted him repeatedly. The fault was Annie's Mr Innes was quite within his rights. 46
darwin		 In his rights to torture our children for expressing the plain truth.
darwin		Well damn how he sees it. Damn the pair of them and all their works
emma		Charles listen to yourself. Listen
darwin		Emma please. I will not have Innes tell me what I can and cannot tell my children.
emma		It is what I have told them every night at bedtime. It is the instruction my aunt and your brother and most of our family live by. It is what all of the village believe ...or try to. Charles. Must our children be revolutionaries at nine years of age. Write to him with your concerns - our concerns - about the manner of the punishment but please do not set yourself against him. Think of my feelings on this. I beg you.
darwin		You're right of course.... I'm sorry.
darwin		You're still angry with me.
emma		No. Why?
darwin		I can always tell by your playing.
emma		Not angry. I'm sad.
annie		Talk to her.
darwin		 And say what? She does not want to hear it.
annie		Then write to her.
darwin		 That is what I am doing Annie, I am writing all of it. 48
darwin		....and then she can read it, and we can all be free of this! Now, please, Annie no more interruptions!
darwin		Pull!
annie		What's an oviduct?
darwin		Nothing that need concern you.
annie		 I know what it is anyway.
darwin		Pull!
darwin		....What was once a free- swimming creature now finds itself glued by its head to a rock, flailing for food with its legs..., 50
emma		" ...About the midst of this valley I perceived the mouth of hell to be; and it stood also hard by the wayside. Now, thought Christian, what shall I do?
emma		And ever and anon the flame and smoke would come out in such abundance with sparks and hideous noises, that he was forced to put up his sword, and betake himself to another weapon, called "All Prayer"..."
etty		Is Daddy not coming to kiss us good-night
emma		He is still a little bit ill from working ...maybe tomorrow.
betty		That's what you said last night.
etty		I think when Annie died he stopped loving us.
emma		Oh come now, Etty. You know that's not true. He is just a little bit ill - and a little bit busy.
annie		Is there really such a place as hell.
darwin		No of course not. How can there be? If he is supposed to be loving and forgiving - what on earth is the sense punishing all these millions of souls.
annie		But just suppose if there was. And all this was punishment.
darwin		All what?
darwin		I don't know what you mean. All what?
darwin		Pull!
emma		Talk to Mr Innes. Please. You are clearly not well 53
darwin		He is what? A physician now
emma		You know what I mean. I think he can help you.
emma		I am taking the children to Maer for a while, to visit their cousins.  I worry for you, Charles. Please talk to him
parslow		Will you be eating sir. 54
darwin		No thank you.
darwin		Annie? .....Annie.
darwin		Annie!
thatcher		Mr Darwin! Mr Darwin! I was explaining to Mr Goodman here your interest in breeding. Mr Darwin is our foremost scholar in the village.
darwin		No. No I am but one of many. There is Squire Lubbock, and the reverend Innes
thatcher		....he is also a noted explorer, the author of many books..
darwin		...which no-one has read. 55
thatcher		...a fellow of the Royal society and a prodigious expert on clams...oysters?
darwin		Barnacles.
thatcher		Mr Goodman, now, is the foremost pigeon fancier in all the southern counties. Kent champion two years running. I swear he can give you any beak or plumage in four generations. Head and tail in five.
darwin		How do you do it?
gooodman		By breeding cousin with cousin. I find it the fastest way to alter the strain - provided you do not weaken it in other ways.
darwin		Get rid of them.
parslow		Which ones sir?
darwin		All of them. All of it.
darwin		Go. Go!
parslow		Sir. Mr Darwin.
parslow		Please rest sir. I'll have John Lewis remove it. Have some breakfast now and rest. Shall I call the doctor?
darwin		God know.
parslow		Or the water tower.
darwin		A pox on all of them!
doctor		Calomel then, twice daily.
darwin		I will not give it to her.
darwin		Not to any of mine I hope. On the Beagle I dropped some on a microscope slide and all my animacules died of it.
doctor		Well animacules are not persons. Presumably they would die if you dose them with Madeira wine.
darwin		On Madeira they thrived most excellently, as did Captain Fitzroy, while it lasted.
doctor		Or if she would submit to be bled.
annie		Please no.
darwin		I will write to Dr Gully again.
doctor		 The hydro-therapist?
darwin		I have always found his treatments most effective.
doctor		...no matter that they defy all sense of logic.
darwin		Logic is not everything.
doctor		Then I shall bid you good day.
darwin		Parslow will bring your carriage. I will be down presently
darwin		I should take her to Malvern.
emma		I think it is better she is here.
darwin		Gully can care for her properly there. She can be treated daily, as I was.
emma		Charles no. She is better with us. With her family. Please do not take her away from me.
parslow		Post for you sir.
darwin		Ha!!
innes		Ah, there you are Mr Darwin.
innes		May I join you.
darwin		By odd means
innes		Mrs Darwin informed me you would be alone and ....perhaps a need to counsel.
innes		You dropped this. What a beautiful postage stamp.
darwin		Yes. It is from the Spice islands.
innes		I do rather envy your wide circle of correspondents. In my youth I always wanted to travel.
darwin		You are still young. You could be a missionary and follow in Mr Livingstone's footsteps.
innes		Yes, although I have always felt there is quite enough evil at home without looking for it abroad.  Mrs Darwin told me of the book you are writing.
darwin		Not any more, thank goodness
innes		You have finished it?
darwin		It has been finished for me. My correspondent In the spice islands has arrived independently at exactly the same idea, expressed in a mere twenty pages.  61
innes		The Lord moves in mysterious ways.
darwin		He does indeed Mr Innes. I was reflecting only the other day on the fact that he has endowed us in his blessed generosity with not one but nine hundred species of intestinal worm each with its own unique method of infiltrating the blood supply and burrowing through the mucosa.
darwin		And then again on the great love he shows for butterflies by inventing a wasp to lay eggs inside the living flesh of caterpillars
innes		Well. It is not for us to guess at His reasons.
darwin		No. We can leave that for Mr Wallace now. Should I advise him to stay overseas do you think? If he shows his face in Kent he may be required to kneel on rock salt.
innes		I once valued our friendship Mr Darwin. I had hoped it might be possible to restore it. Clearly in your present mood that is not going to be possible. My regards to Mrs Darwin
darwin		What? I am forestalled by Mr Wallace. That is the simple fact of it. What reason do you have to be angry?!
darwin		Annie!
emma		You have a visitor.
darwin		No. No. I will not be bled or lectured to.
hooker		It is me. Thank God you are still with us. Word came from London you had suffered an apoplectic stroke.
darwin		No. Simply the great relief of liberation. Did you read the Wallace abstract.
hooker		It is a letter. You have a book
darwin		...barely half of it
hooker		You have a book. What is not already on the page is most certainly inside your head and I intend to extract it, if it kills us both.
darwin		You have been talking to Huxley.
hooker		No. Had I done so he would have hastened here himself armed with every instrument of torture known to her majesty's navy.  Charles I have read the first Chapters. It is brilliant. You must continue.
darwin		I cannot. Seriously Joseph, I am completely blocked. All my old symptoms have returned with a vengeance. The sweats the shakes the abdominal pains. The whole endeavour was cursed from the outset.
hooker		Charles. It was you who opened my eyes to the wonders of science. So let me open yours. You have an illness. You have had it as long as I have known you.  64
darwin		Not Malvern
hooker		Why not. What is there to be scared of there. He has worked for you in the past it will work again. Then come back and finish the book. Your enemies are already toasting their good fortune but they shall not prevail.
darwin		What are you talking about. I have no enemies.
hooker		They are legion, believe me, and they are implacable. We are all of us fighting a battle against fear and superstition but we can win this battle. We must win it. You can win it for all of us. Go to malvern, then come back and finish it.
emma		Charles, please reconsider
charles		Emma it is weeks now, months. She is getting worse, not better.
emma		Then I am coming with you. 65
darwin		You cannot come. How can you possibly come in your condition.
emma		It is not so far.
darwin		It is two days by coach and train. Who will look after the others.
emma		I do not care for the others. I care for Annie!
darwin		Leave us please, Etty.
brodie		Make sure she is tucked in. Watch her shawl
annie		I don't need to go.
darwin		The coach is outside. I will carry her from here.
emma		Annie...
annie		Mama...
darwin		You will see Mamma when you are better. Say goodbye now. 66
emma		Wait. I am coming with you
darwin		Please, Emma
emma		Wait there.
darwin		Get aboard. Brodie
annie		 Mama!
darwin		 Go. Go.
emma		 Wait!
darwin		Go now!
annie		Mama!! 67
emma		Charles. Please God. No. Annie!
darwin		Tell him not this way.
parslow		 Hello there. Stop. Can we go by the other route
attendant		The Worcester Road is shorter.
darwin		...by the low road.
parslow		He wishes to go by the other route.
attendant		 As you will sir.
mr gully		Mr Darwin, old friend. Mr Darwin. It has been too long I fear. Tut tut tut tut tut. What have we now what have we now?
gully		tongue...
mr gully		Ugh. Shirt up. Let me feel your liver.
dr gully		Pulse hectic, togue furred, liver tender and enlarged.
dr gully		No doubt you have been exercising your brain every hour that God gave you.
darwin		I was persuaded to write book.
dr gully		Madness there are far too many of those already. Are you Sleeping?
darwin		Poorly.
dr gully		I suppose never taking the 50C dilution of Chelidonium.
darwin		 I had the gardener build a water tower. It no longer has any effect.
gully		Of course not. Your gardener is not a hydrotherapist. What on earth possessed you ?
darwin		I feared I was dying.
dr gully		Oh come come come. We shall not have that talk here.
gully		A smart spinal scrub. Cold douche daily at 7.00. Wrapping in towels and sweating by the lamp.
dr gully		No red meat, no reading, no mental agitation of any kind. We shall soon have you right old friend, we shall have you right.
bearded stranger		Mr Darwin is it?
bearded strange		William Carter of Southampton. I read your Beagle account many years ago. Former naval man myself. What brings you here? Myself, a Bilious fever with blood per rectum, but I have every faith in Gully. The man is a miracle worker. 71
gully		What action do you most associate with the symptoms. Eating? Strong emotion? Strenuous Excercise?
darwin		Does the exercise of memory count as an action.
gully		Memory of what.
darwin		My eldest daughter. You remember her.
gully		Of course. Of course. You must accept there was nothing more we could do.
darwin		I know that. I know.
gully		You say you were writing about her.
darwin		No. It is a scientific text. But I had reached a point, beyond which it was impossible to progress. She had been my companion throughout. Now it seemed she was ahead of me in a place I could not follow. 72
gully		Of course. Plainly she is in heaven.
darwin		That is what my wife believes. It is a great consolation to her
gully		But not to you.
darwin		Emma and I have become ...divided on it.
gully		Does it affect your marital relations.
darwin		We have none ...to speak of.
gully		 Are you familiar with the writings of DeQuincy."There is no such thing known to the mind as forgetting."
darwin		I don't know what it means.
gully		He suggests we have thoughts which do not actually enter the realm of consciousness. Nervous fibres exist after all throughout the whole body. Is it not possible that certain primal feelings manifest in some physical way. Eczema. Boils. A fever. Might some blocked passion imitate a gall-stone? Or even manufacture one.
darwin		Well, until someone devises a machine to read nervous impulses, or a telescope to look inside the body I suppose we can only guess at it.
gully		We can Mr Darwin. We can look inside you. If you find yourself open to it, there is a way of seeing. 73
darwin		Mrs St John?
st john		Just leave your coat on the table. Sit down here. Show me your palm.
darwin		Sorry. I'm confused. What is it you do exactly.
darwin		Envision how? When Gully described you I fancied some scientific instrument....
darwin		Well. I have a ten shilling note here in my wallet.
darwin		If you can tell me the numbers on it we can begin.
darwin		I am a professional man. And I asking for no more than I ask of all my colleagues - a demonstration of competence.
darwin		Then I am sorry to have wasted your time.
darwin		How dare you. 75
darwin		...prey on people's grief like this.
darwin		 Do you take me for an idiot? Clearly Gully has appraised you of my history.
darwin		It is chicanery of the very lowest order and I despise it utterly!
darwin		Annie. Annie! 76
darwin		Is Mrs Carey still the landlady here.
landlord		No.
darwin		My daughter Annie ...lodged here some years ago. Can I come in?
darwin		I know this is an intrusion. I wonder - could I visit the room she stayed in?
landlord		Wait here. I'll get the missus.
landlady		Which room?
darwin		Fourteen. I would only be there ten minutes. I am happy to pay.
landlady		Up one flight and along the corridor to the right.
darwin		I remember.
landlady		Try not to touch anything.
darwin		Is she any better? Does she want for anything?
darwin		Darling Annie. I am here now.
brodie		There there. It will all soon be over.
darwin		Save her. I will believe whatever. Forever. Please save her
darwin		Is that good, my lovely
annie		 Beautifully good. I am making custards.
annie		The rabbit.
darwin		What?
annie		The rabbit taught him the polka.
darwin		I don't understand my love.
annie		Tell me about Jenny.
darwin		What about her.
annie		When she died
darwin		I don't want to talk about death my love.
annie		But tell me. I like it.
darwin		Well. What the keeper told me was. When she was very sick with pneumonia, lying very still, he tried to feed her but she shook her head, looking at him as though to say: "Its nice of you but really you shouldn't bother". And as he bent down to take the spoon away she brought her arms around his neck and kissed him. And then she was dead.
darwin		Sorry. I startled you. 83
emma		Take your coat off by the fire there. What time is it?
darwin		We need to talk. I need to talk to you.
emma		Of course, but dry your hair. I shall call for a towel.
darwin		I went back to Worcester Road. I saw Annie.
emma		Charles. No.
darwin		Let me tell you.
emma		I don't want to hear it. This must stop.
darwin		You don't understand.
emma		I do! Do you think me deaf and blind. You have lived with her and spoken with her every day since she died.
emma		She is more real to you than I am. She's dead Charles.
darwin		I know that.
emma		Then what is wrong with you that even our poor daughter cannot be left in her grave but you would.... 84
darwin		I know she is dead. I know it. It is you who will not accept the fact, preferring to think of her in heaven.
emma		Get away from me!
darwin		Snowy white wings and dancing with the angels. Is that your idea of honesty.
emma		Why did you come back. I will not hear this!
darwin		You have to Emma, everything these was between us is gone. The boat is wrecked and sunk now. We have to hold to something else.
emma		To what. Your ghosts? Your theories? What Charles.
charles		To the truth of what we know it.
darwin		Open this door Emma. The truth, how wonderful and extraordinary our daughter was....
emma		 I know that. I do not need you to say it. Of course I know. 85
charles		But free of the fantasy, free of the rest, the silly vain hope that we will be reunited in heaven and the nagging unspoken belief that I killed her!
emma		I have never said that
charles		Say it now. Say it. And all the rest that follows. That I should have kept Annie warm that day on the beach. I should not have taken her to Malvern. I should have let you come.
emma		I should have insisted.
charles		No. It was me. I took her from you It was my fault.
emma		I could have followed. I was her mother what was I thinking of.
charles		We thought she would live. You were not to know.
emma		I did. I did know. I knew when you left that I would never see her again. I hated you for taking her.
charles		I hated myself. I knew that none of them could save her.  86
emma		What are you saying?
charles		The unspeakable . I am saying that you and I, in making our perfect child, endowed her with the very weakness which killed her. Emma. That is what I couldn't write. That is what forestalled me all these years. It wasn't you I was angry with, it wasn't Innes and it wasn't God. I was angry with my theory. It was the truth I was angry with. It is the truth.
annie		Tell me a story.
darwin		I'm busy Annie.
annie		 I'll go away again, then you'll be sorry.
darwin		All right, come here, come here.
darwin		Once there was a man Who, while travelling in South America, came apon a beautiful and dangerous idea.
darwin		Here, here. Come on, come on then
darwin		...I wont hurt you.
darwin		He knew his wife wouldn't care for this creature so when he came home he locked it in a box, where it couldn't run around and do any damage.
darwin		But every so often he'd open the lid and feed it, just because he couldn't bear to let it die.
darwin		One day he opened the box and discovered it wasn't in there at all. It had escaped with all its babies, who were nesting all over the house making a terrible mess.
darwin		But finally they caught them all, and bundled them in a blanket and he asked his wife to dispose of them as she saw fit.
annie		And what did she do?
darwin		I don't know but I fancy she took them out in the garden and set them free.
darwin		Done. I have finally got it out of the air and into these pages. Will you read it and decide what must be done with it. I confess I no longer know and I am very tired.  She takes his hand and squeezes it.
darwin		Emma?
darwin		Did you read it?
emma		Yes.
darwin		And....
emma		I wrapped it and put it on the table there.
emma		You're right. True or not it must all be said. Probably most of it is true. God help us.
emma		Careful. I have soot all over my hands.
****Dialogues from script :Crime_Spree.txt****

daniel		 Turn on the flashlight.
julien		I'm trying.    It doesn't work.
daniel		It has to work. You just bought it this afternoon.
julien		Do they come with batteries?
daniel		You didn't buy batteries?
julien		I thought they came with batteries.
daniel		I can't believe you didn't check.
julien		I bought everything you put on the list. Gloves. Pen knives. Flashlight. Batteries were not on the list.
daniel		Why should I have to put it on the list? It's like saying to buy a car with tires.
daniel		Let's go.
daniel		Be careful it's...
daniel		... hot!
daniel		Light your lighter. I can't see anything... and try not to burn down the house!
old man's voice		Don't move!
julien		Is he dead?
daniel		I don't know.     He looks dead.
julien		He looked dead before he fell.  The old man groans, then opens his eyes.    He grabs his shotgun. Daniel and Julien run to the door.
daniel		Start the car! Start the car!
julien		You didn't think to move the car before we came out!
daniel		Raymond, get us out of here!
raymond		You're always pointing out my negative qualities. My analyst says positive reinforcement is a much more productive way of relating with people.
julien		Fine. Raymond, we'd like to commend you on how well you fucked up tonight.
marcel		 I heard you almost got your ass blown off last night. Some thief. A regular black panther.
raymond		A Black Panther was a member of an African American militant group in the sixties, Marcel. I think you're referring to The Pink Panther.
marcel		Pink panther, black panther. Who gives a shit? And I don't remember asking you a God Damn thing, you little turd.
raymond		There's no reason to be abusive. You're projecting your anger on me as a defense mechanism.
marcel		What the hell is he talking about?
raymond		I'm talking about human beings communicating openly and honestly.
marcel		How about getting on your knees and communicating with my dick?
bastaldi		Shut up! Both of you!    You're giving me a fuckin' headache.
daniel		Where's your brother?
bastaldi		Vincent's in the States on business.  That it?
bastaldi		Okay.   Now I've got something I want to --
bastaldi		Do you mind? I'm trying to do some business here.
bastaldi		One more sound out of you and I'm going to cut your fuckin' tongue out.
bastaldi		You take someone in. Give them a steady job and how do they repay you? By claiming to misplace a shipment of your merchandise.
raymond		Maybe he did misplace it.
bastaldi		You misplace your car keys.   You misplace your cell phone. 
daniel		Laurant, how long has he been in there?
bastaldi		I don't know.     What day is today?
julien		Thursday.
bastaldi		Is it Thursday already?    This week has just shot by.
bastaldi		You and your crew speak English, don't you?
bastaldi		Hey Daniel! Hello?  Do you guys speak English?
daniel		Uh, yeah.
bastaldi		Good.   I have a job for you in America.
bastaldi		The Taylors from Chicago. Very rich. An acquaintance of mine recently quit working for Mrs. Taylor as an assistant. She tells me they keep all their jewelry in a safe in their bedroom.
julien		It seems like a long way to go for a necklace.
daniel		Besides, we don't know the city and--
bastaldi		Thank you Marcel, for that... extremely redundant explanation.
daniel		C'mon, Laurant, America?
bastaldi		The job is worth about two million euros. Pull this off and you and your crew could make some real money, Daniel. You leave tomorrow.
julien		We're going to need to find someone who knows the city.
marcel		I know someone.
marcel		Going somewhere?
sami		Oh, Marcel! I thought you were somebody else. If I knew it was you I would have never run.
sami		You're probably here for the money I owe you.  I don't have it. Marcel opens the door to the bathroom and pushes Sami inside.
sami		You know this is how rumors get started.
sami		Told you.
marcel		Today's your lucky day, Sami.
sami		 Yeah, I can see that.
marcel		Normally I'd be breaking your fingers right now, but I'm going to give you a chance to make enough to pay me back and have some extra for yourself. We have a group going to Chicago to do a job. You're going with them.
sami		Me?
marcel		You lived there. You know the city.
sami		I've still got a few legal problems back in the States.
sami		 But I'd be... I'd be happy to go.
marcel		If you try to leave town I'll know. If you manage to leave town I'll find you... and the next time we meet in a bathroom I'll be cutting you up into little pieces.
marcel		Be at this address at nine o'clock tomorrow morning.
raymond		 No, I'm not yelling.
sami		I'm Sami.    Marcel sent me.
julien		What is it you do, Sami?
sami		You know, a little of this, a little of that. I've boosted cars, stole radios, run a few scams. Right now I'm into pick-pocketing.
julien		I see.   A master criminal.
sami		Hey, I was told to come here by Marcel. You guys don't want me, I'll be more than happy to leave.
daniel		 This is Zero.
sami		Hi. I'm one and this is two, three, four and five.
julien		Let me give you some advice. You don't want to piss him off because he'll kill you for the fun of it. What you want to do is keep your mouth shut and do what we tell you.
zero		 So, we are going to America?
daniel		In English.   Sami doesn't speak French.
zero		Where are you from?
sami		Algeria.
zero		And you don't speak French?
sami		Well, you know, not all Algerians speak French. It's a matter of what school you went too. Me I never really --
zero		 Who gets killed?
daniel		Hopefully no one.
zero		 No one? Then why is Zero here?
sami		He speaks about himself in the third person?
raymond		Feel free to correct him if you want.
daniel		 I just want you there in case there's trouble.
zero		And if there is, then Zero can kill someone?
daniel		We'll see.
bastaldi		 I thought I would accompany you to the airport to say bon voyage... and tell you that Marcel will be going with you.
daniel		What?
bastaldi		This is a considerable move up for you, Daniel. The temptation of having so much money might be too much for you.
daniel		You don't trust me?
bastaldi		I don't trust anyone. You don't get to the top of this game by trusting people... and after all, you are a thief. It's in your nature to steal. I'm just protecting my investment.
marcel		That's better.
bastaldi		Stop it!   Both of you!
marcel		 ... que je t'aime... que je... Marcel sees Bastaldi glaring at him and stops.
taxi driver		Are you sure you guys have the right address? This ain't no tourist area.
marcel		Yes.   We are sure.
sami		Let me handle this.
sami		Hey, brother.     What's happening, man?
lamar		Don't you brother me, motherfucker.
lamar		What's in the bags?
julien		Dirty underwear.
lamar		Dirty underwear. That's a good one. Let me explain something to you. This is my street and you're gonna give me want I what or I'm gonna bust your heads open.
raymond		Lamar, violence is never an answer to settling disputes. I can see you have a lot of anger... but this is not the way to get it out.
lamar		Get outta my face!
lamar		Now, are you going to give me the suitcases? Or are we going to have to take them?
zero		Va te faire foutre!
lamar		What did he say?
daniel		He said to go fuck yourself.
zero		We are tired and bored with your bullshit. So, put that stupid little knife away before Zero shoves it up your ass.
lamar		Who is Zero?
julien		He is.
lamar		 He speaks about himself in the third person?
lamar		Maybe Zero would like to get off his ass and take my knife from me?
zero		If you insist.
zero		Leave now before Zero shoots off those little raisins you call balls.
sami		You put a loaded gun in your bag and brought it through customs? How stupid is that?
zero		Zero did not put it in his bag.    He put it in yours.
marcel		We are looking for Sophie.    Laurant send us.
sami		 Ouh La La.
sophie		I wasn't expecting this many of you. I've got a few sleeping bags you can use.
sami		Thanks.
sophie		 This is Wayne. My roommate.
raymond		I am Raymond.     Thank you for allowing us to stay here.
wayne		No problem, man.  Hey, you wanna hit?
raymond		No thank you.
raymond		Oh, Pepe Le Pew. He is very funny and quite well known in France.
wayne		Yeah, I dig him.
raymond		Although a cartoon I feel he shares a universal theme: We are all searching for love. No?
wayne		Whoa...   That's deep.
sophie		You guys hungry?
waitress		Ready to order?
julien		Could we see a wine list please?
waitress		 That's cute.
sophie		They don't have a wine list.
julien		Oh, then we will have the house wine.
waitress		Sure -- and would you like that before your escargot in white truffle sauce?
julien		I did not order escargot.
sami		They don't serve wine here.
julien		What kind of restaurant doesn't serve wine?
sami		This kind.
julien		Okay.    I will have a beer.
waitress		I don't think he's grasping the concept. Iced tea, lemonade, coca cola, sprite or root beer.
julien		 C'est quoi root beer?
daniel		He'll have a sprite.    We'll all have sprite.
waitress		Good. Now that we've gotten the beverage selection out of the way, dare we move on to the main course?
zero		Idiot.
waitress		And no smoking.
zero		 No smoking? No drinking?       What kind of country is this?
vinny		 I'm sorry, Frankie.     Really.
zammito		You bleed on me, I'll kill ya.
zammito		What'd I tell you? Huh, Vinny? What'd I tell you when you came to me for money? Didn't I ask you not to do it? Did I not say that?  What'd I say to him?
zammito		That's right. I said don't do it. Did you listen to me? No. You wanted the money. So, I lent you twenty large. Now it's been three weeks and you ain't paid a dime. What do you think that makes me look like on the street? I don't do something to you and everyone will think they can skate.
vinny		Frankie, I --
zammito		-- Shut up! Don't you try to make me feel bad about this. You knew what would happen to you if you didn't pay. This is on your head, not mine.  Break his arm.
vinny		Jesus, Frankie, I'm your brother!
zammito		That's why we're only breaking one arm.
sophie		There's an exterior alarm system. There's also another one in the hall that leads to the bedroom with a motion detector. The control panel is in the bedroom.
julien		I can handle the exterior alarm, but the one in the bedroom is a problem.
sami		After the outside alarm is off we go in through the bedroom window.
daniel		 Good. Zero and Julien will go in through the window and disable the motion detector. The rest of us will come in through the front door.
julien		What about transportation?
sophie		You can use my car.
daniel		Not a good idea. Someone gets a license number and it all leads back to you. Raymond, you'll steal one.
raymond		No problem.
sami		When do we go?
sophie		Tonight.
daniel		Tonight?
sophie		I know they won't be home tonight.
sami		You ever hear of jet lag?
sophie		Take a nap.
julien		What the hell is that?
wayne		Neighbors.    They do this all the time.
sami		I can't even hear myself think.
zero		How are we supposed to sleep with this noise?
sophie		I've asked them a hundred times to keep in down. They don't listen.
raymond		I will talk to them.
wayne		Yeah.   Right.
sophie		Not a good idea.
raymond		It's just a matter of communication.
raymond		 Hello. My name is Raymond. I am visiting next door and I was wondering if you could make your music a little less loud.
biker		No.
raymond		But the music is very--
biker		Fuck off!
biker		Listen asshole, I told you --
wayne		 What'd you say to them?
marcel		 Nothing.
zammito		Hey, Bobby beans... How you doin'?
bobby beans		Good. I'm doing good. How you doin', Frankie?
zammito		Good.   I'm good.
bobby beans		Mr. Maranzano sends his warmest regards.
zammito		When you return please extend my regards to Mr. Maranzano and his family.
zammito		Can I offer you something.    A drink? Coffee?
bobby beans		No thank you.
zammito		You sure? I just got a shipment of espresso from Sicily. Special blend. Can't find anything like it in the States.
bobby beans		I'm good.   Really.
zammito		Okay. I understand you're interested in one of our properties?
bobby beans		Yeah. That warehouse over on Merchant Street. The volume on our import business has risen dramatically. The proceeds this quarter will be supernumerary due to the --
zammito		 -- Super what?
bobby beans		Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
zammito		Then why not just fuckin' say better than expected? Everybody knows what better than expected means.
bobby beans		I'm taking a vocabulary course to enhance my communication skills.
zammito		Okay.   How much?
bobby beans		I'm not here to negotiate.
zammito		Why are you here?
bobby beans		To tell you that we're interested in the property.
zammito		You told me that on the phone. What the hell are you doing here? Showing off your communication skills? Go back to your people and tell them when they're serious to put a number on the table.
bobby beans		I will relay the particulars of our conversation to Mr. Maranzano.
zammito		Yeah -- you do that.
zammito		Jerk-wad!
zammito		How's my brother?
zammito		I said a clean break.
zammito		Send some flowers. Something nice. Roses or carnations. And one of those get well soon cards.
zammito		Oh and uh, send a case of steaks over to his house. I don't want the kids to go hungry while he's recuperating.
sophie		You like shoes?
sami		No, I like the bag. It would be good for the job tonight.
sophie		It belongs to Vincent Bastaldi. He left it last time he was here. I'm sure he wouldn't mind if you used it.
sophie		So, how did you get hooked up with these guys?
sami		Just lucky I guess. How'd you start working for the Bastaldi's?
sophie		The art world doesn't fully appreciate my talent yet. I needed some way to pay the rent. Laurant and Vincent pay well for information.
sami		So you arranged to have the people you worked for robbed?
sophie		They're not nice people.
sophie		I like your tattoo.
sophie		 Casandra. Old girlfriend?
sami		Something like that.
sophie		Did she break your heart?
sami		Something like that.
sophie		It looks old.     Did you get it a long time ago?
sami		You ask a lot of questions.
sophie		That's how you get to know someone.       Did it hurt when you got it?
sami		I don't remember.    I was drunk.
sophie		You got it in a bar?
sami		No. I got it in prison. I went in for three years. When I came out she was married to my best friend. Happy?
sophie		Sorry.   I didn't mean to pry.
sami		It's okay.   It was a long time ago.
sophie		I've been thinking about getting tattoo. You know, a flower or something. On my ass.
sami		Who's gonna see it there?
sophie		The lucky ones.
raphael		Gimme the money!
raphael		Open the safe!
old man		I don't have the combination.
old man		I swear!   I don't have it!
hector		Hey, Vato, where's your car?
raphael		My car!
julien		It's Raymond.     He's outside with the car.
sophie		For luck.
sami		I'm glad you didn't get something flashy.
raymond		Watch this.
hector		Maybe you should call the police.
raphael		Hey, idiot -- I've got stolen wheels and a stolen radio in the car.
hector		I just thought that--
raphael		 -- Don't think. Okay?        You're not good at it.
raphael		Go do something -- get some beers for the guys.
raphael		When I find out who did this I'm going to mount their head on my dashboard!
zammito		 Yeah?
zammito		Now? I've got a date with a drop dead major babe.
zammito		Okay.    I'm coming.
zammito		Mario, I gotta go. When my date arrives tell her I had an emergency.
mario		Of course, Mr. Zammito.
bonanno		Frankie, come in. Good to see you.      You want something?
zammito		No, I'm good, Angelo.
bonanno		I understand Bobby Beans came to see you today.
zammito		Yeah. Seems Maranzano wants to talk about buying the Merchant Street warehouse.
bonanno		And?
zammito		And nothing.     He's just feeling us out.
bonanno		He's trying to get a foot hold in our territory.
zammito		He sticks his toes in the water again, we'll cut 'em off.
bonanno		Business must be good if he can afford to buy up useless property.
zammito		I heard this quarter his profits are gonna be supernumerary.
bonanno		They're gonna be what?
zammito		Supernumerary. It means better than expected.
bonanno		Good word.
zammito		Someone else coming?
bonanno		Nah, that's just Tony's way of telling me Judge Judy starts in ten minutes. You ever watch it?
zammito		Uh, no --
bonanno		You should. You can learn a lot about the criminal justice system on a program like that. Very informative. Stay and watch it with me.
zammito		You know, I'm kind of tired. I'm just gonna go home if it's all the same to you.
bonanno		Go.   Rest.
bonanno		Oh Frankie, what's this I hear about your brother?
zammito		He missed three weeks.
bonanno		Your own brother? You couldn't send someone else to do it?
zammito		I did. Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The Rake" did the deed.
bonanno		But you were there?
zammito		Angelo, we live and die by the rules we make. We are men of honor, but honor without respect is a... horse-less carriage.
bonanno		What the fuck does that mean?
daniel		 Park on the next street over.   We'll meet you when we're done.
zero		We're in.
daniel		So much for no one being home.
julien		At least they got this right.
sami		We've got to be careful not to use our real names while we're in here.
daniel		Good idea.
sami		I'll be Elvis and you--
marcel		 -- I want to be Elvis.
sami		It's my idea.
marcel		 C'mon, I look more like Elvis than you do.
sami		Okay.   You can be Elvis.
sami		And the rest of us are...    John, Paul, George and Ringo.
marcel		Hey, Barry Bonds. The home run king.
marcel		It's for my nephew.
agent hadley		Looks like Zammito's being robbed.
fbi agent		Should I call C.P.D.?
agent hadley		Yeah, but tell them not to move until these morons come out of the house.
julien		Where are the jewels?   There aren't any jewels.
marcel		There has to be.
julien		I'm telling you I've pulled out everything in the safe. There aren't any jewels.
marcel		There must be half a million dollars here though.
daniel		Marcel, we came here for jewels, remember? Sami moves closer to Zammito, studying his face. He moves over to the dresser where there are several photographs of Zammito with various famous people. Next to the photographs is a plaque that reads: TO FRANCIS ZAMMITO...
sami		 Do you know who that is?
marcel		Mr. Taylor?
sami		No, that's not Mr. Taylor.
daniel		 It's not?
sami		That's Frankie Zammito.   The Under boss of the Chicago Mafia.
marcel		 Why would they want us to rob the Mafia?
marcel		Mr. Zammito, there seems to have been a big mistake here. May I use your phone?
zammito		Feel free.
bastaldi		Hello?
bastaldi		Who?
bastaldi		Marcel?
marcel		Oui.
bastaldi		 You're calling me on your cell phone, right?
marcel		No.
marcel		Oui.
marcel		 Should I call you back?
marcel		Oui.
zammito		Walk out of here with nothing and I'll forget this ever happened.
sami		Yeah. Right.     You're not a vendetta kind of guy.
zammito		I'll find you. No matter where you go I'll find you.
daniel		You don't carry the same weight in France as you do here.
marcel		You think it's smart to tell him we're French?
daniel		I think he's already figured that out.
zero		We are being watched. Daniel grabs the binoculars and looks.
daniel		Cops?
zammito		FBI. They've been there for months. Think I don't know. Morons.
julien		What do we do?
marcel		I was told to take what we have and go.
julien		Go where?   The police are outside.
daniel		If we do this we all have to agree.
julien		I don't know.     Maybe if we did just leave --
sami		C'mon, get real, will you. You think he's just going to forget about this? These guys are all about respect. All about honor. He's coming after us, so we might as well take the money.
zammito		You're all dead.
sophie		I wasn't expecting you guys back so fast. How'd it go?
sami		How'd it go? I don't know.     Daniel, how would you say it went?
daniel		I would have to say... pretty fuckin' bad. You gave us the wrong address Sophie.
sophie		No, I didn't.
julien		Bastaldi got the address from you, yes?
sophie		Yes.
julien		And he gave it to us.    145 Ridgeway Road.
sophie		No.    145 Ridgeroad Way.
daniel		That moron.
marcel		It was an honest mistake. Ridgeway... Ridgeroad... Ridgeway Road.
daniel		Everyone get some sleep.    We're leaving in the morning.
agent hadley		What the hell are they doing in there?
fbi agent		Chicago P.D. says they can't hold the units here any longer. They want to know if they should go in?
agent hadley		Tell them no.     We'll advise if anything changes.
raphael		Someone stole my car tonight!
felix		C'mon Raphael, you don't think that I would steal your car?
raphael		You run a chop shop for low riders. Yes, I think you'd steal my car.
felix		I swear I didn't. I wouldn't!
raphael		And I should just believe--
hector		 -- you stole my cousin Enrique's car.
raphael		 Hector, don't interrupt me.
hector		He told Enrique he didn't know anything about his car.
raphael		I don't give a shit about your cousin's car. We're here about my car. So, shut your mouth! You think you can do that? You think you can keep your big mouth shut?
raphael		If I find out you're lying. If I find out you know anything about this I'm going to come back and cut off your nose.
raphael		 Vamos.
fbi agent		Sir, do you think we could have a hostage situation in there?
agent hadley		Hold on a second. Joey "Two Tons" just pulled up.
zammito		They were all French guys.
joey "two tons"		French guys?    You mean like from France?
zammito		 Yeah, French guys from France.
zammito		Everything.
joey "two tons"		Everything?
zammito		Everything.
zammito		Well, you know, when five guys break into my house in the middle of the night, stick guns in my face, tie me up and steal from me... it does irritate me.
zammito		You know why I'm handling it very well? Because you're going to get these guys for me.
joey "two tons"		Okay boss.   Where are they?
zammito		If I knew where they were you wouldn't have to find them, would you?
zammito		Just find them!
joey "two tons"		Okay boss.
zammito		Papa Joey?
sophie		Can't sleep?
sami		No.
sophie		I'm sorry things went so wrong today.
sami		It's not your fault.
sophie		What are you doing?
sami		I thought I'd listen to some of the tapes. See what's so important that a mob guy has to lock it away in his safe.
sophie		Sounds boring.
sami		It's three in the morning.    Not much else to do.
sophie		I can think of something. They kiss.
wayne		She's not here, man.
sami		Where is she?
wayne		I think she went to do some laundry. Threw some stuff in a bag and left.
sami		Bag? Sami runs to the table.      The black canvas bag is gone. CLOSE ON DANIEL:    Asleep.    Sami shakes him.   He opens his eyes.
sami		Get up.   We've been ripped off!
julien		Oh, man... this is bullshit!    You can't trust anyone these days.
raymond		She took everything!    Didn't even leave us cab fare.
sami		Not everything.
sami		I was going to listen to it last night but I --
sami		-- feel asleep.
wayne		No you didn't, dude. You were bangin' Sophie. I saw you guys going at it.
daniel		You slept with her?
sami		Well, actually I would say she slept with me.
sami		What's the big deal? It's not like I was on guard duty or something.
daniel		You didn't think it was little suspicious that someone you only knew for a few hours wanted to sleep with you?
sami		No.   Chicks dig me.
man's voice		Hello?
zammito's voice		It's me. I need an answer from you if I'm going to move.
man's voice		We're not just talkin' about a 'piece of work' here. We're talking about a boss.
sami		Holy shit.
raymond		What?
zammito's voice		Bonanno's a dinosaur. Guy thinks he's fuckin' Vito Corleone or something. The old ways are gone. If we don't change now we're going to get pushed out. I need to know if I can count on your support?
man's voice		Yeah.
sami		No wonder Zammito didn't want us to walk out with this stuff. He's planning on killing Bonanno and taking over the family.
julien		This wasn't the deal! The deal was to steal a necklace, not get in the middle of a Mafia war.
marcel		The deal is whatever Mr. Bastaldi says it is.
daniel		You know, if you could get your nose out of Bastaldi's ass for two seconds you might see what's going on around you.
julien		I knew this was a mistake! I knew it last night when you asked me to go along with this. I could hear that little voice in my head saying, "don't do it! Don't you do it!" Jesus, why don't I ever listen to myself?
sami		Yeah, but you did do it.   So let's deal with that.
marcel		What are you guys so scared of? Zammito doesn't know who we are. We just get out of town and it's over.
zero		Oh, you think it's that easy?
raymond		Yeah.   We just go home.
daniel		We can't.
raymond		I agree with Marcel. I say we go to the airport and get on a plane.
sami		They'll be waiting for us at the airport.
daniel		You steal some money from a man he gets over it in time. But these tapes. He's never going to stop looking for us.
sami		We have to find Sophie.
raymond		How are we going to do that?
wayne		I know where she went.
wayne		I heard her talking on the phone. Bay View Motel. It's about five blocks from here.
raphael		Tell me the truth Hector... do you think we'll find my car?
hector		Hard to say.
raymond		How do we know what room she's in?
sami		Wait here.
sami		Hi. Did a woman just check in? She's about five six. Pretty. Dark hair.
motel clerk		I can't give out information on our guests.
sami		C'mon man, I think she's having an affair.
motel clerk		So are half the people in this place.    I can't help you, pal.
motel clerk		Look, I can't tell you -- Before he can finish the sentence Zero has his gun out and wedged under the clerks jaw.
motel clerk		Room fourteen.
zero		Thank you.
sami		I really thought we had something special going. I can't tell you what a disappointment you've turned out to be.
sophie		After last night I could say the same for you.
raymond		The money isn't here.
sami		Where is it, Sophie?
sophie		I don't know.
daniel		If you think because you're a women this can't go hard on you, think again.
sami		Who are you waiting for?
sophie		Stick around and find out.
zero		He's FBI.
raymond		What is she doing with an agent du FBI?
sami		We've been set up.
sami		We didn't go to the wrong house. We went to right one, didn't we Sophie?
sami		They send us to Zammito's house. The FBI is right across the street watching the whole thing, but they don't move. A crime is going down and they don't move. Why?  Because they were waiting for us to come out so they could arrest us.
zero		What does arresting us get them?
sami		 You wanna tell him?
agent hadley		You're telling it fine.
daniel		You see my friend over there? I nod to him and he's going to put a bullet in your knee.
agent hadley		You wouldn't.
agent hadley		That's going to make a lot of noise. Not much time for a conversation after you pull the trigger.
sami		He's got a point.
agent hadley		Okay! Okay! We've been investigating Zammito for years, but we've never had enough evidence for a warrant to search his house. We got word through a snitch that Zammito was planning on taking Bonanno out.
daniel		We know all this.
agent hadley		You just don't take out a boss. You need permission from the other families to do something like that. Our informant told us that Zammito was talking with other bosses and recording their conversations in case they later claimed they weren't involved. Look at these tapes. The guy has recorded every conversation he's had for years.
daniel		So we rob Zammito. You arrest us when we come out and the contents of the safe is now evidence which you can use against him.
sami		 What are you getting out of this?
sophie		Money. It was supposed to simple.    In and out. 
zammito		Mario, I gotta go. When my date arrives will you explain to her I had an emergency.
mario		Of course, Mr. Zammito.
sophie		Hi.    I'm meeting Frankie Zammito --
sami		Why?
sophie		Vincent Bastaldi is in jail.
daniel		For what?
sophie		Laurant and Vincent were in business with Zammito.
daniel		What kind of business?
sophie		Black market art. Zammito got to a few key security guards at the Metropolitan Museum. The Bastaldi's supplied the artists to make copies of famous works. They'd switch the paintings, send the originals to Paris and the Bastaldi's would sell them to private collectors.
agent hadley		We're talking Matisse, Renoir, Monet. We know for sure they replaced Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve sunflowers" last week with a copy. It was on loan from the London National Gallery and they're not going to be very happy when they find out about it.
sami		So Bastaldi makes a deal with the Feds to trade up for his brother?
agent hadley		Yeah. He delivers the goods on Zammito. If we got what we wanted we'd let his brother go providing he tells us where the Van Gogh and the other paintings are.
raymond		No one has mentioned the part of the plan about us getting caught and going to prison.
daniel		We're leaving. Raymond get the bag.
agent hadley		You walk out with that bag and you won't only have Zammito and his people after you. You'll have the entire United States justice department. How far do you think you'll get? I know who you are Mr. Foray? Mr. Zerhouni. Mr. Gayet.  Mr...
sophie		Zero.   That's all I know.
agent hadley		You'll never get out of the city.
daniel		Bastaldi's dead. He is fuckin' dead!
zero		You want Zero to kill him?
daniel		I'm going to kill him myself!
zero		What about the money?
sami		It has to be at Sophie's. She didn't have time to go anywhere else before she came here.
zero		We don't know that for sure.
daniel		Forget the money! We've got bigger problems than the money right now.
raymond		She probably hid it at her place.    The six of us could find it in --
sami		 -- We don't have time to look for it. Hadley's first move is going to be to look for us there.
daniel		We're moving. Pack up and be on the street in five minutes.
agent hadley		This is turning to shit. If word gets out of my involvement in this I'll go to prison.
sophie		Listen, we know their names. They don't know the city. You'll find them. You're the FBI.
agent hadley		I can't bring the Bureau into this.    If I do the tapes become evidence.
sophie		They're supposed to be evidence.    That's why Bastaldi set this up.
agent hadley		Fuck Bastaldi and his brother. These tapes are gold. Do you have any idea what Zammito would pay to get them back?
sophie		I thought you wanted Zammito?
agent hadley		What for? The minute I get him some other Gavone will take his place. I've been doing this for twenty years. When I retire it's not going to be to some trailer park in the suburbs.
agent hadley		Too many people know about my involvement in this.
sophie		Then we just have to make sure everyone who knows can't say anything.
agent hadley		You're right about that.
raymond		I would like to thank you for your hospitality.  If you are ever in Paris here is my number.
wayne		Cool.
daniel		 I'll be right back. He gets out of the car and walks over to him.
lamar		What do you want now?
daniel		Guns.   Can you get them?
lamar		Man, I can get anything.
daniel		Don't bullshit me.
lamar		I ain't bullshittin'. I can get guns. I can get any kind of gun you want. But they ain't gonna help your sorry ass. You ain't been in town one day and already you got two of the toughest people in Chicago looking for you. How is that possible?
daniel		I've got a way with people.
lamar		I can see that. The man's car you stole. Raphael Ruiz. He's head of the 19th Street gang and one crazy motherfucker. And Frankie Zammito's got the word out he's looking for some French dudes. You're French ain't ya?
daniel		I'm from Belgium.
lamar		Yeah, I'd be from Belgium too if I was you. You know Zammito just put his own brother in the hospital? Broke his arm cause he was late on a debt. I mention this to illustrate the kind of people who are lookin' for you.
daniel		Why haven't you turned us in?
lamar		I ain't no rat.  You got money, right?
lamar		And, uh, I'm going to have to charge you a commission... kind of like a brokerage fee.
daniel		How much?
lamar		A thousand dollars?
daniel		Fine.
daniel		Take this. I'll call you in a few hours. You tell me where we meet.
wayne		Yeah?
wayne		Hey dude, what do you think you're doing?
wayne		Uh... excuse me, but don't you need a warrant or something?
agent hadley		Not today.   Where are your friends?
wayne		They left about a half hour ago.
agent hadley		Where did they go?
wayne		I dunno.
wayne		Hey man, you can't do that!
agent hadley		What?   This?
agent hadley		Or this?
wayne		Jesus.   What kind of FBI agent are you?
agent hadley		I'm your worst fuckin' nightmare. Now, if you don't want me to keep on hurting you, it's important that I believe you and right now I don't. So tell me, where did they go?
wayne		I swear man, I don't know. They packed up and left a half hour ago.  All I got is one of their phone numbers in Paris.
maid		Maid service.
raymond		 I don't know. I think I'm going to have to stay a few more days.
daniel		 Did you know about Bastaldi's deal with Zammito?
marcel		No.
daniel		You're sure?
marcel		I think if he told me he was going to steal Van Gogh's "Sunflowers in a vase" I would remember it.
sami		 "Vase with twelve Sunflowers."
marcel		Whatever! He never told me about the Van Gogh or any of the other paintings.
sami		It makes sense. I mean, do you really think he would come along if he knew we were being set up?
daniel		I think he'd cut his dick off if Bastaldi told him to.
marcel		Fuck you! You know I'd never go along with something like this.
daniel		Do I?
marcel		This ain't about that and you know it. This is about you never forgiving me for leaving the crew.
sami		 You guys used to work together?
marcel		Yeah and he can't stand it that I tried to do something to better myself.
daniel		 You call being Bastaldi's lap dog better?
marcel		 Better than spending my life crawling through windows in the middle of the night.
sami		All right, knock it off.
daniel		 All you are is a professional ass-kisser.
marcel		 I'm not a guy who is known for his patience and right now you're testing mine.
daniel		 What is that a threat? Are you fuckin' threatening me, Marcel?
sami		I said knock it off! Now as far as I'm concerned you two girls can bitch slap yourselves silly when this is over, but right now we've got to figure out what's going on.
raymond		It's simple. Bastaldi's moving up. He's closing down his operation and this is his way of saying thanks to all of us.
julien		Well, I say the whole deal is off. In fact, if you ask me, there never was a deal because we were screwed from the start.
zero		Hey Sami, you're on TV.
reporter		... Sami Zerhouni in connection with the murder of Sophie Nichols.
sami		What?
reporter		Police have confirmed that Zerhouni was seen entering the woman's room by the Motel Manager.
reporter		Zerhouni is also wanted by police for questioning regarding a robbery last night at the home of alleged Mafia member Frankie Zammito.
zammito		Oh, shit!
reporter		The other members of his gang are reported to be French nationals Daniel Foray, Marcel Burot, Julien Labesse...
lamar		Dumb crackers --
reporter		... Raymond Gayet and an unidentified man only known as Zero.
agent hadley		That should shake things up.
reporter		Up next.    A vacation get away on a budget --
sami		Hadley --
daniel		Has to be.
julien		 This is bad. This is really fuckin' bad. Am I the only one who sees how bad this is?
sami		Hey, it's not your picture on the TV, it's mine. So, try to be cool.
julien		Don't tell me to be cool! We were supposed to be in and out. In and out! In the last twenty four hours we've managed to get the Mafia... the FBI... the Chicago Police Department and a group of Latin gang members after us. I haven't left out anyone, have I?  I don't think so, because we've already pissed off everyone in the fuckin' city!
sami		We've got to get out of here.
julien		That's brilliant! Care to elaborate?
sami		You're not helping.
raymond		Julien, what you're doing right now is a very normal psychological reaction to stress. You're projecting your anger onto us.
julien		Oh, Jesus.    We're dead.
lamar		Yeah?
lamar		Hey you guys are becoming famous.      I was just watching the news and--
lamar		Yeah. All set. Tomorrow morning. Ten o'clock. Room 211. Barclay Hotel on River Street. Oh, and due to your recent notoriety and the heat that comes with it, I'm going to have to increase my brokerage fee to twenty five hundred.
lamar		We had a deal before you and your friends became the new poster boys for crime.
daniel		Sami, tomorrow you lift a wallet from someone who looks like one of us.
julien		What for?
daniel		We need to rent a car and for that you need a credit card.
raymond		Why not just steal another one?
daniel		Too risky. We don't need to get pulled over because of a stolen car.
julien		Maybe I'm missing the obvious, but why aren't we leaving town? Any place has to be safer for us than Chicago.
sami		It doesn't matter where we go. Between Zammito and the FBI they'll find us. We have to end this here.
zero		And how do we do that?
sami		I don't know.
julien		That's an excellent plan.     Very comforting.
daniel		We'll think of something.
bonanno		Why didn't you tell me about this?
zammito		You have enough to worry about, Angelo. You don't need my problems.
bonanno		We're family.     An insult to you is an insult to me.
bonanno		They knew who you were when they broke in your house?
zammito		Yes.
bonanno		What is happening with the world? There was a time no civilian would touch a made man. Now every babbo in the world thinks he can get away with something. What did they take?
zammito		Some cash. Jewelry. The other stuff I can replace, but there's a cardboard box... photos of my mother. They're the only ones I have of her.
bonanno		We're doing everything we can to find these people. Right Tony?
bonanno		If they're still stupid enough to be in this city, Tony will find them.
zammito		 Get in the car.
zammito		You are!   Now get in the fuckin' car!
black guy		 I'm gonna have to search you.
daniel		We'll save you the trouble.
black guy		 You can't come in here with that.
daniel		What's wrong with this guy?
ellwood		He's my cousin. He's deaf.
daniel		We're here to buy, not steal. If you guys are straight there's not going to be a problem.
ellwood		Let them in.
ellwood		What can I do you for?
daniel		How much for the nines?
ellwood		A grand a piece.
daniel		I'll need extra clips and ammo.
lamar		What the hell you doing, Ellwood?   I gave them my word.
ellwood		Zammito's offering twenty grand a head for these guys. You think I'm going to settle for four G's when I can make forty?  All right. Reach in easy and put the gun on the floor.
ellwood		I said put it on the floor, not kick it under the bed.
ellwood		Get that and add it to my inventory.
ellwood		I assume you're carrying too?
ellwood		Okay, put it on the floor... and do not kick it under the fuckin' bed.
zero		 No.
ellwood		No? Did you just say no? Listen cowboy, if you're thinking about makin' a move, don't. Nobody is that fast.
zero		Zero is.
ellwood		Who's Zero?
lamar		He is.
black guy		Found it!
daniel		There's ten grand in here. It's yours. I'm going to call you again. There's one more thing I need you to do.
lamar		What?
daniel		I'll tell you when it's time.
raymond		 I am not comfortable with this.   I'm not a good liar.
julien		 Relax. It will be fine.
raymond		Hello. I am Robert M. Carney from Dayton, Ohio and I would like to rent a car with my visa gold card.
zammito		Angie, how you doin'?
zammito		Hey, you're looking good. There's something different about you. You get a boob job or something?
angie		I've gained weight.
zammito		Yeah, well, it suits you.
zammito		Hey Tommy.
richie		I'm Richie.    He's Tommy.
zammito		Whatever.
zammito		Angie, take the kids down to the gift shop and buy 'em something. I need a word with Vinny.
angie		 Gee, five bucks. What ever shall we buy?
zammito		She seems pleasant enough.
vinny		She doesn't know. She thinks I fell down the stairs.
zammito		That's good.    That's what a stand-up guy does.
zammito		So, I just come by to see how you're doin'?
vinny		You broke my arm. How the hell do you think I'm doin'?
zammito		Yeah. I mean besides that.    They treating you all right? Food okay?
vinny		Yeah. I'm going home today.    What do you want, Frankie?
zammito		I don't want anything. 
vinny		A little?
zammito		Yeah. I mean, you are my brother and... well I should have found another way of expressing my disappointment. So, I've decided to make it up to you.
vinny		You gonna forget about the money I owe you?
zammito		What are you nuts? A debt is a debt. I was thinking I'd throw a little extra work your way. You know, you come down to the club, make espresso for the boys... wash their cars... run some errands... things like that.
zammito		 I'm on my way.
zammito		I got something I gotta do. I'm glad we had this talk. Heal. Get better. Let me know when you're ready to start.
gang member		I ain't seen it your car. Sorry man. Hey, you know who you should talk to is Freddy O.
raphael		I thought he was in prison.
gang member		Got out last month. He's trying to go straight but he's still wired in. 
sami		Do you know who this is?
sami		If you ever want to get those tapes, meet me in one hour at Grant Park near the statue.
julien		Everything okay now?
zammito		I don't know the little one, but the other guy is definitely one of them. Follow them and call me when you find out where they go.
julien		 I'll drive.
raymond		 I'm the driver.
julien		 I've never driven a Cadillac before.
julien		 This is a car. I think this is the best American car I've ever driven.
raymond		 This is the only American car you've ever driven.
sami		You set me up, you piece of shit!
sami		What are you doing?
agent hadley		You think I'm going to talk to you until I know if you're wired.
sami		Wired?    I ain't wired.
agent hadley		Okay.   Okay.    I believe you.
sami		You killed her!
agent hadley		No. You killed her. Manager remembers you going into her room. Your fingerprints were found all over the place.
sami		Bullshit! She was alive when we left her with you.
agent hadley		You're fucked, Sami. You know it.   That's why you're here.
sami		Look, I just want out of this nightmare. I don't know these guys. A few days ago I'm in Paris picking pockets and now I'm America's most wanted.
agent hadley		Where are the tapes?
sami		I can get them -- but what do I get if I do?
agent hadley		A pass.
sami		A pass? How you gonna give me a pass? A witness can put me at the crime scene.
agent hadley		Witness' can be convinced they made a mistake. Without the murder weapon the D.A. won't have enough to prosecute you.
sami		They don't have a murder weapon?
agent hadley		No. I have it. The lamp? The one with your fingerprints and her blood on it?  Remember?
agent hadley		Of course they could always get an anonymous tip. Find it in the dumpster behind the motel.
sami		You want the tapes for yourself.     You're going to sell them.
agent hadley		I'm going to retire with a shit-load of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
sami		You didn't have to kill Sophie.
agent hadley		Yes I did.    Lose ends are messy.
sami		What about me? Aren't I a loose end?
agent hadley		When this is over you can say whatever the hell you want. I'll be long gone. Besides, who's going to believe you? You're just a two-bit crook.
sami		And you're a dirty cop. At least I don't pretend to be something different than what I am.
agent hadley		When you've got the tapes call me on this number. We'll make the exchange and that'll be the end of it.  Hadley leaves.
julien		 We're being followed.
raymond		 I knew I should have driven.
julien		 Stop talking. I'm trying to concentrate.
raymond		 What are we going to -- His voice trails off as he sees Julien. A bullet has glanced his neck, not deep, but deep enough to sever an artery. Blood pours down his neck and covers his shirt. His face is pale. He glances at the wound in the rear view mirror.
julien		 When we get to the next corner jump out.
raymond		 I'm not going to leave you.
julien		 We both know I'm already dead.
julien		 Go! Raymond opens the door. He jumps out.
daniel		Julien? Raymond's face fills with sadness.   He shakes his.
sami		It's not your fault, Daniel.
daniel		No?
daniel		We had a chance to walk out of Zammito's house.
marcel		We all agreed to it. You had no way of knowing Bastaldi was setting us up.
daniel		I just want to live long enough to get back to Paris. Just long enough to kill Bastaldi.
sami		I say we make him pay first. After that you can do whatever you want to him.
raymond		He's right. Do you have any idea what Van Gogh's "Vase with twelve Sunflowers" is worth?
marcel		No.   How much?
raymond		I don't know.     It's gotta be millions.
daniel		We still have to get out of here.
marcel		Maybe if we gave the tapes back --
zero		 No.
zero		They killed our friend. It's personal now. Besides, if we do that, then Julien died for nothing. The tapes are the key.
sami		He's right. The tapes give us leverage with Bastaldi.
agent hadley		Hello? Mrs. Gayet? Do you speak English?  The Holiday Hotel. Room 912. Thank you very much.
uniformed cop		Dead bodies. The ones in the Lincoln are your... associates.
uniformed cop		Some French guy. At least that's what his passport said. You know Joey, I shouldn't be talking to you about this.
uniformed cop		No. It's just that the French guy had a gunshot wound on his neck. So, this is a homicide. Are you guys involved in this?
uniformed cop		A Wallet.    A hotel room card.    Some cash.
joey "two tons"		What hotel?
uniformed cop		The Holiday Hotel.
uniformed cop		I don't know.     I didn't look.
joey "two tons"		Go look.
daniel		Okay. Airports, train stations, bus station are out. We know they're connected to the car rental agencies because that's where they picked up Raymond.
sami		Even if we get out of town and go to another airport I'm sure the FBI and Chicago P.D. has alerted customs.
marcel		How about Canada?
raymond		What are we going to do, take a taxi?
sami		I'm going to get some cigarettes.
raphael		When I find them they won't have them for much longer.
raphael		Thanks.
agent hadley		I'd like to see the manager please.
hotel manager		May I help you?
agent hadley		I'm looking for several French men who checked in within the last twenty four hours.
hotel manager		They checked in last night.
agent hadley		I need you to take me to their room.
man		Excuse me.   I was here first.
man		Hey buddy, you just can't push in here.
sami		Go away.
man		I most certainly will not go--
operator's voice		Operator.
daniel		 Get that, will you?
raymond		Why do I always have to answer the phone?
daniel		Because you're the closest.
raymond		I'm not any closer than you are.
daniel		Why is everything an argument with you?
raymond		I'm just setting my boundaries.
daniel		Hello?
daniel		Raymond, grab the tapes.    We're leaving!
raymond		Why do I have to pick up the tapes.
daniel		Jesus!
agent hadley		You should go now.
little girl		 C'mon, Mommy.
daniel		Let's go! The Crew moves through the door.
daniel		The bullet went clean through.
raphael		I can't eat.
hector		So, can I have your fries?
daniel		 When we get back to Paris I'll take you dancing.
daniel		Bring me the scissors.
zero		And the Vodka.
daniel		Cut his pants up the leg to the groin.
zero		And be careful when you get near the top. Zero has a very long one.
sami		What's he joking around for?    He's been shot.
daniel		He's been shot a lot.    He's used to it.
sami		Anybody hungry?
daniel		What'd you get?
sami		Some bread and...
sami		Cheese.
daniel		Cheese?   In a can?
sami		It's good.
marcel		God, I want to go home.
sami		Hey, you know you can't this in France.
daniel		Thank God.
daniel		 Ready?
zammito		What happened?
zammito		I see. Well, get back out on the street and find them before I "sort of" kill you.
zammito		Oh, I'm sorry.
zammito		Had enough?
zammito		Try to get this through that fat, stupid fuckin' head of yours. If Half Tooth Tony finds these guys before we do and Bonanno knows what was in my safe we are all dead.
zammito		Cafones!
zammito		You gonna bring that over here today, or what?
raymond		The new Beaujolais' come out in France next week. You like wine?
sami		I'm more of a whiskey drinker myself.
sami		Glenmorangie.
raymond		Glenmorangie is very good.
sami		But I'll have a glass of Beaujolais with you when we get back.
daniel		I'll be back in an hour.
sami		What?
daniel		Can I trust you, Sami?
sami		Hey, who warned you that they were coming up to the room?
daniel		If they had taken us by surprise they would have gotten the tapes back. That would have left us with nothing.
sami		No, that would have left me with nothing because all of you would be dead.
daniel		You haven't answered my question.
sami		Does it really matter what I say?
daniel		I'm leaving you with my friends. I'm trusting you to do the right thing today.
sami		I will.
daniel		You better.
daniel		I would like to see Mr. Bonanno please.
daniel		Tell him I'm the guy who robbed Frankie Zammito.
bonanno		Either you are incredibly brave, or incredibly stupid. Which one is it?
daniel		I guess we're going to find out.
bonanno		You rob an associate of mine... a friend and--
daniel		 Not such a good friend.   May I reach in my pocket?
half tooth tony		He's clean.
zammito's voice		Of course. I need an answer from you if I'm going to move.
man's voice		We're not just talkin' about a 'piece of work' here Frankie. We're talking about a boss.
zammito's voice		Bonanno's a dinosaur. 
daniel		I've got to tell you, Mr. Bonanno, This guy's an idiot. How he's lived this long is a mystery.
bonanno		 I don't think it will be a mystery much longer.
daniel		He's recorded every conversation he's had with you for years.
bonanno		I assume you want something?
daniel		We've got a lot of people looking for us. We'd just like to go home.
bonanno		You want me to help you get out of the country?
bonanno		And for my help I would get what?
daniel		Half the tapes.
bonanno		And the other half?
daniel		I'll destroy them when we get back to Paris.
bonanno		I only have your word for that.
daniel		I just want to get my people home. I know who you are and what you could do to me if I don't honor my word.
bonanno		Where are you staying?
bonanno		I only ask so I can call you when the arrangements are made.
daniel		How about if I call you?
sami		Same place.    One hour.
sami		What the fuck was all that about at the hotel last night? I thought we had a deal?
agent hadley		Hey, you're not exactly the most trustworthy guy in the world. I took a shot. It didn't work. Did you bring the tapes?
sami		The lamp?
agent hadley		Just a second. You must think I'm a real moron.
zammito's voice		I just came by to tell that "piece of work" you asked for on Johnny Wicks -- It's done.
bonanno's voice		Good.   How'd he go?
zammito's voice		Like the crying rat bastard that he was.
zammito's voice		Angelo, we can't lean too hard on this guy. He's a congressman.
bonanno's voice		I made Peter Dimiano a congressman. We pay him each month to look after our interests.
agent hadley		Here you go, sport.
lamar		I'll take the bag.
agent hadley		You don't think I see through this?     You tell Sami he's dead.
agent hadley		You're making a big mistake.    I'm an FBI agent.
lamar's buddies		C'mon, man!   Let's get out of here.
sami		See, I told you that you could trust me.
lamar		Okay, we're square now, right?
daniel		There's just one more thing I need you to do.
lamar		I'm listening.
daniel		 That would be fine. Thank you.
receptionist		This came for you.
sami		Since we're such good pals I thought I'd sneak you an advanced copy of my latest work. I call it, "I am a scum-sucking FBI agent".
sami		You want the tapes for yourself.     You're going to sell them.
agent hadley		I'm going to retire with a shit-load of money. Find me a small country that doesn't have an extradition treaty with the States and live the good life.
sami		You didn't have to kill Sophie.
agent hadley		Yes I did.    Lose ends are messy.
sami		It's a little arty I know, but it has great content, don't you think? You were so busy looking for a wire you probably didn't even think about a video camera. It was on the statue. Anyway, I've sent a copy of the whole tape to the Chicago P.D. and the FBI. They'll get it tomorrow. If I were you I'd take the day off.
eddie		Hey boss, some guy named Hadley.     Says he's got some tapes you want?
zammito		Yeah?  Okay. Okay. There's an old warehouse on Merchant Street...
raymond		Mr. Zammito?
vinny		Uh huh.
raymond		I represent a person who wishes to remain anonymous, but is aware of your current financial problems with your brother.
vinny		I don't know what you're talking about.
raymond		I understand. The person who sent me wishes to help you.
vinny		How?
raymond		You see that car?
vinny		Yeah.
raymond		It's yours. A gift. A gift you could give to your brother... or anyone you owe money to as partial payment.
vinny		No shit?
raymond		The papers for the car will arrive tomorrow.
zammito		Those the tapes?
zammito		Watch the paint.
agent hadley		The money?
zammito		How'd you get these?
agent hadley		I got 'em.    That's all you need to know.
zammito		Just a second.
wayne newton's voice		Danke Schoen, darling Danke Schoen. Thank you for all the joy and pain...
zammito		Can you believe that guy?    What a moron.
zammito		Great fuckin' song.
bonanno		This plane will take you to Canada. From there you can fly back to Paris.
daniel		Thank you.
bonanno		You have something for me?
bonanno		And the other half of the tapes?
daniel		You have my word. I'll destroy them.
zammito		What's this?
vinny		A car.
zammito		Oh really? Thanks. I thought it was a sewing machine. What the hell is it doing here?
vinny		It's for you.
zammito		For me? What am I going to do with a piece of shit like this?
vinny		I don't know. Sell it. It's gotta be worth something. Someone gave it to me. C'mon Frankie, I'm trying to make good here.
zammito		Okay.    Okay.
vinny		I'll get you the papers tomorrow.
zammito		 Hey, if you're well enough to be walking around you're well enough to start working here.
raphael		You lost?
lamar		Don't come off like a hard-on with me. I'm about to make you a very happy man.
raphael		Anybody know about that car outside?
zammito		Yeah.   It's mine.
raphael		No.   It's mine.
zammito		The hell it is.
raphael		I'm telling you that's my car!   And someone's gonna pay for it!
zammito		And I'm tellin' you it ain't! Now, turn your taco-eating ass around and get the hell out of here.
raphael		Fuck you, grease-ball!
zammito		Fuck me?   Fuck you!
raymond		What's he doing?
marcel		He's looking around for us.
zero		Zero can't stay like this much longer. His leg is hurting.
bastaldi		Hello?
bastaldi		 Daniel. Listen I'm afraid there has been a big--
bastaldi		 A million! I don't have that kind of money.
bastaldi		 I don't have it. That's why Vincent went to Chicago. They arrested him before he could bring it back.
daniel		 Put the money in the rowboat and untie it. The current will carry it down river. When we see that the money is there I'll call back and tell you where the tapes are.
daniel		This is for Julien.
bastaldi		Oh, Merde!
sami		Did you have to use that much explosive?
daniel		I promised Bonanno I'd destroy the tapes.
daniel		You didn't check it?
marcel		I'm sorry! I was caught up in the excitement of the moment. I should have checked. I made a mistake. I suppose that none of you have ever made a mistake before?
sami		This is great. After everything we've been through we've got eight hundred euros and an autographed baseball.
marcel		The baseball is mine.
sami		No! You can't have the baseball! You're not entitled to the fuckin' baseball!
marcel		I'm the one who took it.   It's my baseball!
zero		If you say baseball one more time Zero will shoot you.
marcel		Raymond, don't you think they're over reacting a little?
raymond		No. I think they have a right to express their anger with you in light of the fact that you're... 
marcel		Fine. All of you want to be angry? Be angry... but I'm the one who took the ball and that makes it mine.
sami		No.
marcel		Give it to me, Sami.
sami		No!
sami		Perfect.
****Dialogues from script :Croods.txt****

grug		Raaaaar grooooOOOOoooowwwll ERF ERF Glaaaaaabbbbllllllllthhhh!
eep		We've been in that cave forever.
grug		Three days is not forever.
eep		It is with this family.
grug		Eep would you come down here? You're being so dramatic.
grug		No, I mean, you're already out now.
grug		Never mind, Thunk. Just, come out.
thunk		 Uhh, but if you don't give the signal, how do I know you're my dad?
grug		The signal isn't so you know it's me, it's so you know I wasn't eaten by an animal.
thunk		Then why is the signal an animal noise? I mean, doesn't that just confuse things?
grug		Sigh. Hoo hooooo! Hoo hooooo!
ugga		Mom, we're ready to leave.  Mom!
grug		It's still early.
gran		And you're still fat.
grug		Breakfast formation!
thunk		YAY, BREAKFAST!!!!
thunk		 Yeah... breakfast...
grug		Who's up?
eep		Heads.
grug		Tails. Thunk's in.
ugga		Get um Mom! Do it for the Croods!
gran		Old lady down! Eep, avenge me.
eep		Thanks!
grug		Eep!
eep		Heads Up!
thunk		Oh hey Dad, can we eat now?
grug		Just wait till we get home. Eep put on the brakes.
thunk		Alright! Good one, dad!
grug		Here you go, Thunk. Drink up.
thunk		Sorry, dad.
ugga		Looks like fast food tonight!
grug		That's alright. I ate last week.
gran		Two knuckle warning.
ugga		Come on Croods. Go, go, go.
grug		Come on, come on. Darkness brings death! We know this.
ugga		The moon is full. Bath night.  You too, Mom.
gran		Run for your life.
ugga		Mom, you've got ants. 
gran		 Aaaaaaaaaah.
grug		Is she still out there?
ugga		You know she hates the cave, Grug.
eep		Please come back tomorrow.
grug		How can she not like the cave? It's so cozy.
ugga		It is a little, dark, Grug.
grug		It's not that dark.
grug		Come on.
grug		That was too close!
eep		I was watching. I was fine.
grug		What were you doing up there, Eep?
eep		I don't know.
grug		What were you looking for?
eep		Nothing.
grug		Well then why did you go up there?
eep		 I don't know. GRUG Why don't you know? Stop looking for things. Fear keeps us alive Eep. Never not be afraid.
eep		 What's the point of all this?
grug		Hmmm? What was that?
eep		 I mean, why are we here? What are we doing this for?
croods		GROAN
grug		No one said survival was fun.
eep		Nothing is fun.
grug		Hmm? Would you come down here. Eep?
ugga		Grug. Off.
grug		Yes.
ugga		Off!
grug		I just don't see why she needs her own ledge. That's all. That's what this is about.
ugga		She's working through some things and needs her own space.
grug		What things? How long is this going to take? Really? I mean she already doesn't listen to me.
ugga		See? She's listening.
grug		If she wants to survive, she has to follow our rules.
ugga		How about a story? Eep loves those.
grug		 That's a good idea ... How about a story, huh?
thunk		Oh yeah, tell us a story.
grug		Ok. Can I borrow that? Thank you. Eep! Your old favorite?
eep		I haven't played with that thing in years.
grug		Tonight we'll hear the story of Krispy Bear.
ugga		Grug!
grug		Yes. And one day, while she was in a tree, the curious little bear wanted to climb to the top.
thunk		Wha?
grug		And no sooner than she climbed to the top, she saw something new and died.
thunk		Just like that?
grug		Yes! Her last moments of terror still frozen on her face.
gran		Oh, same ending as everyday.
thunk		 I get it, dad. I get it. I will never do anything new or different.
grug		Good man, Thunk.
creature		Nuh! Nuh!
guy		No!
eep		Augh!
guy		AAAAAAAUGHHHHHHHH!
eep		Shhh!
guy		 Air.
eep		...You talk.
guy		I'm a person, like you.
eep		Augh!
guy		OW! Wow. --
eep		Quiet! I'm not supposed to be out here.
grug		 Eep's gone.
ugga		What? Grug!
grug		Stay in the cave!
guy		 Wow. You're really strong.
eep		No! It's mine. No, no. I caught it!
guy		It's dying. I can fix it!
eep		It does what you tell it?
guy		Well, yeah, sort of.
eep		The sun?
guy		No, no. Fire.
eep		 Hi, fire.
guy		 It's not alive. EEP But you said it was dying.
guy		Uh sorry,--
eep		It comes from where you come from?
guy		No. I make it.
eep		Make some for me.
guy		Ow. Okay, it doesn't come out of me.
eep		Make. MAKE! MAKE IT!
guy		You do this a lot.
eep		Are you dead? Can I have your fire if you're dead?
guy		Hey, those are cold!
belt		Squirf!
guy		You think? Listening shells, activate.
eep		I don't even know you.
guy		 Ow. I'm Guy.
eep		Guy?
guy		And this is Belt. Cook, conversationalist, navigator, also keeps my pants up.
belt		Hhiiyaa! Yaaa!
eep		What are "pants up?"
guy		Who are you?
eep		Eep.
guy		 Let me clarify, Eep. The world is ending.
eep		What?
guy		I'm calling it...  The... End.
belt		Da da daaaaa.
eep		How do you know?
guy		I've seen it. It's coming this way. First, the Earth is going to shake. Then it breaks open. Everything falls in. Fire. Lava. I don't mean to sound too dramatic, but Aaaaaaaugh. Believe me, everything we're standing on, all this right here, will be gone.
eep		I can't.
guy		Okay. Here. If you survive, call me.
eep		Thank you. Hello? Hey!
grug		Are you hurt? What took you?
eep		Nothing. I left on my own.
grug		You... youuuuuuu... ww-what!? EEP Dad, let me explain...
grug		You're grounded.
grug		Hey!
ugga		Eep!
eep		Mom!
ugga		Grug! What happened!?
grug		You know what, I am so mad right now, that I can't talk to her.
ugga		Eep?
eep		You'll never believe it. I found something new.
croods		New?!!!! The Croods all SNATCH up stones. They form a defensive circle.
grug		New's a big problem!
eep		Wait. Wait!
ugga		Eep. Stay inside the family kill circle.
eep		It wasn't bad.
grug		New is always bad.
eep		No. He was nice.
grug		What!? Excuse me? He?
eep		Oh. Well, I thought he was a warthog, but then he turned into a boy.
gran		Strange. Usually it's the reverse.
thunk		Eep's got a boy hog! Eep's got a boy hog!
eep		There was a boy. Watch, okay. I'm gonna call him.
grug		It was dangerous.
eep		 It was beautiful. You want to see dangerous? Here.
thunk		Owww! My sniffer!
grug		Okay Eep, that's it. We're going back to the cave and you're going to stay in there until you're older than... her!
eep		What!? You can't keep me inside forever!
grug		Get to the cave! GO!
ugga		Yes. Grug, the cave, it's gone.
grug		No.
eep		You really need to see this...
grug		No. No one is going anywhere.
ugga		Grug?
grug		Just go! Go! Go!
grug		One, two, three, four, five -- BEAT. Grug smiles.
gran		 Oh... Where are we?
grug		I don't know, I'm not sure. Down. In a lower place. One thing's for sure, we can't go back the way we came.
sandy		Sniff sniff sniff Grrrrrrrrrrr.....
ugga		 Sandy? What is it?
grug		No, no! Come back, Sandy!
thunk		 If it was me, I'm just throwing this out there, if it was me choosing the cave, I would go with a smaller cave.
grug		Wait.
thunk		Dad?
grug		I'll take care of this.
thunk		Alright dad, go get `em! Oh, oh, now you got em-- Now they're really hitting you. Dad I got it, just stop running into their fists.
gran		Hah, I'm loving this.
ugga		Grug, when you're done, we should get going.
grug		That's right! You can't get past this!
chunky		ROOOAR!
croods		GASPS
grug		Climb! Climb! Climb!
thunk		Hey look! This cave has a tongue. Awesome!
grug		Okay, that's one, two, three, four, five... six...
gran		And seven... if we're counting Chunky the Death Cat.
chunky		Grrrrrrrrr.
thunk		Hah! It's scared of the dark... wait... we're scared of the dark.
grug		Kill circle!
guy		Ta-da. EEP 
grug		Auughhauhhhgggh!
croods		Raaarr, grOooOOOOowwllll, ERF ERF GLaaabbbllllellelller!
guy		Cavies!
eep		Cavies?
guy		Cavemen! Stand back! They're practically animals. See their bony, sloping foreheads?
eep		Oh... yeah!
guy		The huge primitive teeth?
eep		Er... yeah...
guy		The excessive body hair? Oh, that one's got a tail...
eep		Uhhh... yeah...
eep		 They're my family.
guy		What?
thunk		Ah, the sun is in his hands!
eep		No. No. It's "fire."
ugga		Where did it come from?
eep		 He made it.
grug		Make some for me!
eep		It doesn't come out of him.
grug		Make. Make it.
guy		You know, you're a lot like your daughter.
eep		Great, now he's broken.
grug		Whoa! Stay back. We don't know what it wants.
thunk		Dad, Sandy's hurting fire.
grug		Sandy! No! Fire is not a play thing!
ugga		Aww, what a cute little guy.
grug		Hey, stay back.
grug		Thunk! Uh, try hiding from it in the tall dry grass!
thunk		 Stop please, please. I'm only nine.
ugga		Ooh, more fire babies.
eep		Hi.
guy		So, your Dad, he's trying to kill me. EEP Yeah. But I won't let him.
thunk		I don't like you anymore!
sandy		Weeeee!!!!
gran		Get out! Out!
ugga		Eat up, babies!
gran		Die! Die!
eep		They're not so scary once you get to know them.
guy		Who are you people?
ugga		Oh, I'm sorry. We're the Croooooods! And you are?
guy		Uh, Guy.
croods		 Hi, Guy.
thunk		Wow! Looks like magic. And smells like food.
grug		Don't eat it, it's new.
croods		Still alive!
belt		Squirf!
guy		gasping for air 
eep		Hey, where's Guy?
guy		No!
eep		Going somewhere?
guy		The mountain? High ground? End of the world, remember?
eep		That already happened. It destroyed our cave.
guy		 Noooo. That was just the beginning of the end. The end of the end is still coming.
grug		 Eep. Drop it.
eep		We can't let him go! What if we don't find a cave before sunset? What if it takes a few days? What if the birds come back?
gran		We need his fire, dummy!
grug		Fine. You're staying with us till we find a cave.
guy		What? No I'm not. Don't make me part of this. Stay here if you want, but let me go. I've got a dream, a mission, a reason to live.
eep		 Not anymore.
guy		 Umm... I've got an idea. Let's go to that mountain.
grug		 It's too far.
eep		Dad really has his heart set on a cave.
guy		Uh, there, are, caves on that mountain.
eep		Have you been there?
guy		It's a mountain. Mountains are safe. Mountains have caves. And water. And sticks.
thunk		Mom? Did you hear that? I can get my own stick!
guy		Yes. Sticks. Caves and sticks. Crazy sticks. Let's go.
belt		Da da daaaaa.
thunk		Ugh. That thing is weird.
eep		No no, it's okay Sandy. That's just a belt.
grug		I've made a decision. We're going to, that mountain! Don't ask me why. It's just a hunch. It just feels right.
ugga		I don't know Grug. We've never really walked that far.
thunk		I don't think my feet can do that.
gran		I'll never live long enough to get there.
grug		 We'll become closer as a family.
thunk		Aaaaaaaaugh. Get her off. Get off.
ugga		If you're not ready to challenge her, then don't look her in the eye.
gran		Could you keep your big giant arms on your side of the trail!
ugga		No more touching. No more touching.
eep		Isn't this fun? We're taking our first trip together.
grug		Do you want me to turn this family around? Do you?! Because I will turn this family around so fast!
thunk		Dad, I gotta go!
grug		Come on, you can hold it.
thunk		I don't think so.
grug		 Go behind one of those lumpy things and make it fast.
thunk		Ow! Something bit me!
gran		 I don't blame it.
ugga		Maybe we should have stopped for water.
eep		Dad, can I take a turn carrying him?
grug		No.
eep		How about now?
grug		No.
eep		Now? GRUG No.
eep		NOW?!?!
grug		NO!
eep		 NOW?!?!
grug		I can do this all day long. No, no, no, and still no.
gran		I'm not dying on an empty stomach.
ugga		Grug, we're all pretty tired.
thunk		I'm pretty dizzy, so I'm just going to lay down for a minute.
grug		We'll eat when we get there.
gran		It's taking too long! I'm grabbing a snack.
guy		No. No. No. Don't do that. He will cut you. That's not food, he's a pet. My pet.
gran		What's a pet? GUY An animal that you don't eat.
gran		We call those children.
grug		No man should have a pet. It's weird, and wrong. It's--  ...It's food!
guy		No, no please!
grug		Not that. That.
grug		Food fixes everything.
thunk		Arrgh.
grug		Not you! You're still grounded!
thunk		My feet hurt.
guy		You look tense.
eep		I'm not tense.
gran		Angry girl wants to be doing what they're doing.
thunk		Ow! I wasn't ready!
thunk		Why are you doing this?
guy		What are they doing?
ugga		Hunting.
thunk		Get it off! You stay away from me.
guy		No seriously, what are they doing?
thunk		 You've got a ton of eggs. Just make another egg!
grug		There! Who's hungry for scorpion?
guy		What happened to the egg and the bird?
thunk		 You know, we lost him. But when the bird stepped on me and pushed me into the ground, the scorpion grabbed a hold of me and one thing led to another and here we are eating him. Win win.
gran		Not enough. Not enough. I need more. I need more!
guy		 Oh, look at that. She's not gonna eat me right?
ugga		You're too skinny. If she was gonna eat anyone it would be--
thunk		AAAAAAAAAUUGHHHHHHHH!
ugga		Mom!
grug		Hold her still. Use a rock. Ugga would you just hit her legs.
eep		Why are you rolling away?
guy		Owww! I just want something to eat.
eep		You have bug for dinner. Plenty of bug!
guy		Please... I'll let you help me hunt.
eep		Really?
thunk		Ahhh! They're all over me... Tell my story...
guy		Okay. Guy carefully SETS the trigger.
eep		What do you call this?
guy		A trap.
eep		What does it do?
guy		 soft whistle Raargh, Thump thump thump, thubububububub soft whistle poom! Tadaaaaaa!
eep		How long have you been alone?
guy		How's your acting?
eep		Just move your arm... no, your other arm. Oh, that one's mine.
guy		Yeah, I noticed.
grug		Where's Eep?
guy		She's awesome.
grug		Eep!
eep		Dad, no!
thunk		It's an avalanche of flavor.
guy		 Looks like we won't be having any leftovers.
eep		What are "left-overs?"
guy		 You know, when you have so much food to eat you have some, left over.
eep		We never have that much food.
ugga		Grug, how about a story?
grug		That's a good idea. How about a story huh?
thunk		Yeah a story, tell us a story!
grug		Once upon a time there was a little tiger who lived in a cave with her family. There were a lot of rules, but the big, simple one was to never leave the cave at night. And the door was so heavy, you'd think it would be easy to remember.
thunk		So easy to remember!
grug		I know! But, while everyone was asleep, she went out anyway.
croods		No!
grug		Yes! And no sooner than she did, her cave was destroyed and everyone had to go on this long, sucky walk, with some weirdo they met, and died! The end.
guy		Whoa! I did not see that coming. Twist ending. My stories never end like that.
thunk		Yes! Two stories in one night!
guy		Okay. But it won't be as good as Grug's. Um, once upon a time, there was a beautiful tiger. She lived in a cave with the rest of her family. Her father and mother told her, "You may go anywhere you want but never go near the cliff, for you could fall."
grug		And die. Good story.
guy		But when no one was looking, she would go near the cliff, for the closer she came to the edge, the more she could hear, the more she could see, the more she could feel. Finally, she stood at the very edge, and she saw a light. She leaned out to touch it, and slipped.
grug		And she fell.
guy		And she flew.
croods		GASP
thunk		Where did she fly?
guy		Tomorrow.
eep		Tomorrow?
guy		A place with more suns in the sky than you can count.
thunk		It would be so bright.
guy		A place not like today, or yesterday, a place where things are better.
grug		Tomorrow isn't a place, you can't see it!
guy		Oh yes, yes it is. I've seen it. That's where I'm going.
grug		Well, WE are going to shut our eyes and sleep. And when we wake up we're going to find the place that has everything we want.
eep		Tomorrow?! GRUG A cave.
grug		snoring, tossing and turning
guy		AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAUGHHHHH.
guy		That was too close. It almost caught us.
grug		I was watching. We were fine.
guy		We've got to move faster. Do you people have any other speed aside from "wander?" I'll take a shamble at this point.
eep		Hey, do you have a minute? How did the tiger fly?
guy		I only share when I'm outside the log. I'm funny that way.
eep		 Leave this to me.
grug		He's loose!
thunk		You mean these rocks? Ahh owww! Do not step on these rocks!
gran		Step aside, girls!
gran		Well, there goes our chance for survival.
thunk		And our log!
grug		Okay. Arraugh!
guy		Ow, ow, ow.
thunk		Ow! Jumping doesn't help, I mean, just briefly, but it doesn't get better! Ow! Do not walk on your hands, the hands do not help at all.
belt		Eeccoomme on!
guy		I can help you, but we're going to have to make a few changes around here. The log ride is over. Drop the log.
grug		Okay, smart, Guy... now what?
thunk		Ahhhh! Good fish.
guy		Okay. Now you can look.
eep		Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhh! I love them! Where are my feet!? GUY They're still there!
eep		Oh, okay.
guy		Whoa. You're really  ... heavy.
eep		Really? Thank you!
grug		Hey, wait. Whoa. Whoa. WHOA!!
guy		 Okay! She's up. I'm good. We're good...
gran		These shoes are great! Where do you get these ideas?
guy		Ah ha.
thunk		Dad. I don't have a brain.
grug		We've gotten along just fine without brains till now. Cavemen don't need brains. We have these. Heeya! Haha!  That's what I'm talking about! Ideas are for weaklings. Grug punches at the air in front of Guy making him wince.
thunk		Good fish. Don't eat my feet.
eep		So... How'd the tiger fly?
guy		He jumped on the sun and rode it to tomorrow.
grug		No, no, no! The family moves across, Grug is the last to follow.
thunk		Hi dad! Bye dad!
guy		You've seen rain before... right?
eep		We don't get out much.
belt		Hmmmmm. Belt makes an Origami boat. He and Sandy sail across the rain puddles.
grug		 Eep, looks dangerous.
eep		Oh dad, you say that about everything.
guy		Careful.
eep		Oh really? Okay.
grug		Augh! No no no! Not cool. Not cool. Not cool.
guy		So the bear says, "Your cave?" I've been dumping my bones here since last week.
gran		Last week, haha. That's a funny story!
guy		It's not a story! It's a joke.
gran		What's a joke?
guy		You know, just making something up... to make you laugh.
gran		Hah, I don't get it.
guy		Here you go, one for you, and this ones for you.
thunk		Thanks.
grug		Okay. Okay. That's enough. I don't see why the kids need their own shells.
guy		So if anyone gets in trouble, we can call the others.
grug		Wait-- you're saying we should split up?
guy		We can try more paths at once. It's the fastest way through.
grug		Croods stick together.
guy		They can handle it.
eep		We can do it, dad.
grug		No no no no no. It's my job to keep you safe. I'm still in charge and we are not splitting up.  Except for you two. And that's final.
guy		Oh, hello.
grug		 Hello? Is everyone alright?
ugga		 We're okay, Grug.
thunk		Dad? I'm freaking out a little bit. Just tell me what to do. Just what do I do right now?
grug		Stay where you are. I'll find you.
guy		No. Too slow. Everybody, keep moving forward and we'll get out.
thunk		Dad?
grug		 Yeah. Okay.
thunk		It's gonna be okay. I'm gonna pass out.
eep		You dropped these.
thunk		Here boy, catch!
eep		Mom?
belt		 Raaah raaah.
ugga		Grug?
thunk		Good boy. Whose my good boy? You need a name, you want a name? I'm going to call you - Douglas. Look at him. Can you do tricks? Roll over. Come on Douglas, roll over.
gran		I was in love once. He was a hunter, I was a gatherer. It was quite a scandal. We fed each other berries. We danced.  Then my father smashed him with a rock and traded me to your Grandfather.
belt		Ha ha ha ha.
grug		 Croods! Come get down here!
ugga		Grug, they're okay. Guy's with them.
grug		Oh, oh, `Guy'. `Guy' is with them. Well thank you for bringing me that interesting Guy update!
ugga		Oh, okay. I'm gonna go up and why don't you join us when you stop being a big drag!
grug		Sleep pile? How about a story, huh? Anyone?
gran		And then Torg said "Know it? I drew it!"
thunk		That makes no sense.
ugga		 I know it was hard for you to bring us along, but they had the best day of their lives... Thank you for that.
guy		I want to show you something.
thunk		More suns in the sky than you can count.
guy		Every sun that crosses our sky, comes to rest up there.
eep		Tomorrow.
guy		That's where we'll be safe.
eep		I'm going with Guy.
grug		 No. Not my little girl.
eep		Come with us.
ugga		I can't go without Grug.
gran		Well, that makes one of us. Count me in!
ugga		Really Mom? Now?
gran		Grug has no idea how to protect us. In fact, he has no ideas at all.
ugga		No, that's not true. What about that one time when he a...
gran		Face it! If he actually had an idea of his own I'd, I'd have a heart attack and die!
on grug		Grug smiles to himself.
ugga		Grug?
thunk		Dad?
eep		Dad?
guy		He's a big guy. How can he just disappear like that?
thunk		Hey wait. Let's ask that ugly lady if she's seen dad.
uga		Yeah.
grug		Haven't seen him.
ugga		Augh!
grug		 Yeah, Wow. Like, I was up all night cuz like all these, ideas just kept coming to me.
guy		Is that a snake?
grug		Belt! New and improved! It's even self- tightening. Ow!
ugga		What is that on your head?
gran		It's called desperation.
grug		 I call it a "rug." Rhymes with Grug. And this one. I call it a "ride." Rhymes with Grug.
guy		That, doesn't--
grug		It's gonna get us places faster than shoes.
thunk		I wish I had a ride.
grug		Painting is a thing of the past. I call this, a "snap-shot."
thunk		Let's do it again. I think I blinked.
grug		I call them "shades."
thunk		The sun doesn't hurt my eyes anymore! Where do you get these great ideas?
grug		Since I don't have a brain, they're coming from my stomach. Down deep below, and then up again into my mind.
guy		Grug. We have to keep moving.
grug		See, I got ideas, I got thoughts.
eep		Mom?
ugga		I know. It's bad.
gran		I almost feel sorry for him.
ugga		What are you trying to do Grug?
grug		I thought if I could have ideas like Guy, maybe Eep would listen to me. Maybe she wouldn't want to go with Guy.
ugga		Oh Grug, is that what this is all about?
guy		We're here.
grug		Cave! Everyone inside. Come on! Hurry up, let's go. Go, go.
eep		No.
ugga		 No more caves, Grug.
grug		What?
gran		We're gonna jump on the sun and ride it to Tomorrow with Guy.
grug		Wait, so you're all going to do this?
thunk		Sorry, dad.
eep		You have to stop worrying for all of us. GRUG It's my job to worry. It's my job to follow the rules.
eep		The rules don't work out here.
grug		They kept us alive.
eep		That wasn't living, that was just, not dying. There's a difference.
grug		Ugga, everyone, you have to listen to me.
eep		We would be dead if we listened you.
grug		Guy?
ugga		Guy, run.
grug		AAAAAAAAAAUGHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!
guy		This is pointless. We're running out of time. Everything is collapsing. You're being irrational and counterproductive.
grug		Big words anger me. Keep talking.
guy		Countermeasures.
grug		I... am... a... CAVEMAN.
guy		No, no, no wait.
grug		Hnnnnnngh! No. What is this stuff that saves you from my punches?
guy		 Tar.
grug		No. I have to get back to them.
guy		Grug! Stop!
grug		Your...?
guy		Family. Yeah.
grug		Sorry.
guy		I was little when it happened. The last thing my parents told me was, "Don't hide. Live. Follow the Sun. You'll make it to Tomorrow."
grug		You followed the light. My daughter is a lot like you.
guy		No. She's like you. She loves you but always forgets to say it. Just like you forget to tell her.
grug		 I guess I was just busy keeping them all alive.
guy		It's okay. That's what Dads do.
guy		Belt! Emergency Idea Generator, activate!
belt		TA-DAAAAA
grug		Wow.
guy		Yeah, I know. But he's doing the best with what he has. Let's go.
grug		Scared? I'll show you scared. Hand me those acting sticks!
guy		Hold on!
belt		Da da daaaaaa...
grug		Yes. You did it!
thunk		Dad!
guy		Hey, we're okay!
grug		Take us to Tomorrow.
guy		Hurry! Come on. We're gonna make it!
eep		You were right.
guy		There it is. The sun. We can do it! We can ride it to Tomorrow.
ugga		We have to go back to the cave. Hurry, hurry, stay together. Let's keep moving. Move, move! Everybody hold my hand. Thunk let's go. Go! Let's stay together.
grug		No more dark. No more hiding. No more caves.
ugga		No. We don't know what's over there. Maybe nothing. It's too risky.
grug		It's a chance.
guy		I'll take that chance.
grug		You know, I've wanted to throw you away ever since I met you.
guy		Heh. That's a joke, right?
grug		What's a joke?
ugga		He made it... He made it...
grug		Okay, Thunk. Your turn.
thunk		You're not coming, are you?
grug		When you make it, so will I.
ugga		You did good.
sandy		Daddy.
grug		Gran.
gran		No mush, just throw me.
grug		Time to go.
eep		No. I have too much to say to you. I need to fix everything and I don't have time.
grug		I can fix it.
eep		This works good. What do you call it?
grug		I was thinking of calling it a Hug.  Because it rhymes with Grug. But you can change it if you want.
eep		No. I like a "Hug."
grug		I love you.
eep		I...
grug		Never be afraid.
guy		There. I see him!
grug		 Hey, I did it.
grug		They're in trouble. Hang on! I'm coming.
macawnivore		Erm?
grug		Run! Grug leaps onto the Macawnivore's back as the birds move in closer. The ground begins to break up violently as lakes empty themselves and entire forests turn sideways.
guy		It's not safe here.
gran		I'll tell her.
eep		I never got to tell him.
ugga		Eep, if your Dad were here, he would tell YOU TO--
thunk		Wow, you sound just like him.
sandy		Daddy! EEP He did it!
guy		He's riding the Sun... but not very well. Everybody out of the way!
thunk		Dad!
ugga		Grug!
grug		Ahhh! Where's the danger? Who blew their shell?
eep		I love you too.
grug		One, two, three, four, five, six...
belt		Eerrghh.
grug		And a half.
thunk		Douglas! Dad you saved him!
grug		Well, a boys gotta have a pet.
eep		You really need to see this.
grug		We should go there.
eep		Our world is still plenty harsh and hostile. But now we know the Croods will make it.
grug		Release the baby!
eep		Well, sort of.
****Dialogues from script :Crouching_Tiger.txt****

worker		Master Li is here!
aunt wu		Shu Lien!
aunt wu		Li Mu Bai is here!
li		How's everything?
aunt wu		Fine.  Please come in.
yu		Mu Bai...It's been too long.
li		It has.  How's business?
yu		Good.  And how are you?
li		Fine.
yu		Monk Zheng said you were at Wudan Mountain.  He said you were practicing deep meditation.
li		Yes.
yu		The mountain must be so peaceful... I envy you.  My work keeps me so busy, I hardly get any rest.
li		I left the training early.
yu		Why?  You're a Wudan fighter. Training is everything.
li		During my meditation training... I came to a place of deep silence... I was surrounded by light... Time and space disappeared.  I had come to a place my master had never told me about.
yu		You were enlightened?
li		No.  I didn't feel the bliss of enlightenment.  Instead... I was surrounded by an endless sorrow.  I couldn't bear it.  I broke off my meditation.  I couldn't go on. There was something... pulling me back.
yu		What was it?
li		Something I can't let go of.  You are leaving soon?
yu		We're preparing a convoy for a delivery to Peking.
li		Perhaps I could ask you to deliver something to Sir Te for me.
yu		The Green Destiny Sword?  You're giving it to Sir Te?
li		I am.  He has always been our greatest protector.
yu		I don't understand.  How can you part with it?  It has always been with you.
li		Too many men have died at its edge. It only looks pure because blood washes so easily from its blade.
yu		You use it justly, you're worthy of it.
li		It's time for me to leave it behind.
yu		So what will you do now?
yu		Come with me to Peking.  You can give the sword to Sir Te yourself. It'll be just like old times.
li		First I must visit my master's grave.  It's been many years since Jade Fox murdered him.  I have yet to avenge his death.  And yet I'm thinking of quitting.  I must pray for his forgiveness.
yu		Join me once you have finished.  I can wait for you in Peking.
li		Perhaps.
guards		Ok.  Pass.
yu		Thanks.  Let's go into the city.
giao		Everything got here safely.  I'm much obliged.
yu		Just doing my job.
giao		Sun Security has been the best since your father started it. You're a credit to his memory.
yu		Thank you.
giao		I mean it.
sir te		This is Li's personal sword, a great hero's weapon!  He is the only one in the world worthy of carrying it.  It's too fine a gift. I cannot accept it.
yu		Sir Te!  It has brought him as much trouble as glory.  Help him to leave these troubles behind. Otherwise, he'll never be able to start anew.
sir te		All right.  I'll act as the sword's custodian.
de lu		Governor Yu has arrived.
sir te		I must change.
yu		 You've always been so good to Li Mu Bai and me.  Please accept our thanks.
sir te		Please do not be such a stranger. You'll stay the night as my guest. Now, Shu Lien... tell me something. And forgive me for prying.  Your father was a great friend to me, and I think of you as my own daughter.
yu		Please, Sir Te, what is it?
sir te		Li Mu Bai giving up his sword and his warrior days... maybe he's trying to tell you something?
yu		I don't know...
sir te		Don't be coy.  I've always known about your feelings for each other. All these years, it's a shame... neither of you is brave enough to admit the truth to the other. You're both wasting precious time.
yu		I beg your pardon.  Li Mu Bai and I aren't cowards.
sir te		When it comes to emotions, even great heroes can be idiots.  Tell me if Li Mu Bai is not more open the next time you see him.  I'll give him an earful!
de lu		Sir Te said to leave the sword in here.
de lu		Who are you?
jen		I'm your guest today.  I am Governor Yu's daughter.
de lu		This is Sir Te's study.  You are here to...
jen		I was looking for a quiet corner.
de lu		I am Sir Te's head servant.  And this is another of our guests.
jen		It's heavy for such a thin piece of metal!
yu		The handle is heavy.  And the blade is no ordinary metal.  Still, the sword is the lightest of weapons. You're just not used to handling it.
jen		But I have had much practice.  As a child in the West, a platoon lived with us.  They'd let me play with their weapons.  The scabbard is so beautiful.
yu		Beautiful but dangerous.  Once you see it tainted with blood, its beauty is hard to admire.  It's 400 years old.
jen		Exquisite!  You said it belongs to...
yu		My friend Li Mu Bai.  He's given it to Sir Te as a gift.
jen		Li Mu Bai!  The famous warrior? Why would he give his sword to Sir Te?
yu		You're too young to understand.
jen		You're a sword fighter too?
yu		Yes, I am.  But I prefer the machete.  Certain moves, however, call for a sword.
jen		Really?
jen		 It must be exciting to be a fighter, to be totally free!
yu		Fighters have rules too: friendship, trust, integrity... Without rules, we wouldn't survive for long.
jen		I've read all about people like you. Roaming wild, beating up anyone who gets in your way!
yu		Writers wouldn't sell many books if they told how it really is.
jen		But you're just like the characters in the stories.
yu		Sure.  No place to bathe for days, sleeping in flea-infested beds... They tell you all about that in those books?
jen		You know what I mean.  I'm getting married soon, but I haven't lived the life I want.
yu		So I heard.  Congratulations.  It's the most important step in a woman's life, isn't it?
jen		You're not married, are you?
yu		What do you think?
jen		No!  You couldn't roam around freely if you were.
yu		You're probably right.
sir te		Go ahead, Governor Yu.
sir te		Two feet 9 inches long.  1 inch wide.  The handle is 1 inch deep, 2.6 inches wide.  Seven-tenths of an inch thick.  With seven rubies missing from the hilt.  You can tell the design dates back to before the Chin era.  Engraved with a technique lost by the time of the Han Dynasty.
governor yu		Your knowledge is remarkable, Sir Te.
sir te		A sword by itself rules nothing. It comes alive only through skillful manipulation.
governor yu		I see your point.  Please continue.
sir te		The Imperial Court isn't the problem.  With royalty and officials everywhere, the Royal Guard keeps security tight.  But Peking is not like the West.  Here, you'll find all sorts of characters.  Proceed with caution in your quest for law and order.  Don't depend only on the court.  Contacts in the Giang Hu underworld can ensure your position.  Be strong, yet supple. This is the way to rule.
maid		Governess...
governess		Let me do it.
jen		Please sit.
governess		I've made you silk pajamas.  Do you want to change into them?
jen		Put them down.
governess		I heard you met Shu Lien today.
jen		Do you know her?
governess		She's one of those.  Your mother would not want you consorting with her kind.
jen		I'll socialize with whomever I please.
governess		Don't invite danger into your father's house.
jen		I'm tired now.
governess		Go to bed then.  Miss has grown up, and is getting married soon.  God knows what the future will bring.
jen		It will be just the same.  Enough! I'm tired.
governess		Autumn is coming.  I'll shut the windows for you.
master bo		Chilly, eh?
nightman		Yes, Master Bo.
bo		Someone help!  Stop him!  He's on the roof!  The sword's been stolen! Stop thief!  Stop him!
tsai		It's Jade Fox!
may		We must avenge mother!
bo		Do something!  He's getting away!
yu		Return the sword, and I'll let you go.
yu		You've been trained at Wudan?
tsai		You're mistaken.  We're just street performers.  We were rehearsing.
may		Father!
bo		You were rehearsing?  Who are you trying to fool?
bo		Where did that thief go?
bo		Governor Yu's house!
yu		Get down here!  Give back the sword!
de lu		Sir Te awaits you.
bo		I'm sure the thief is in the Yu household.
sir te		How dare you imply?
bo		But I say --
sir te		-- Enough.
yu		Has Governor Yu ever seen the sword?
sir te		Yes, though I doubt he's involved in this.
yu		But the sword could be in his compound.
sir te		Then someone's trying to set him up. We should inform Li Mu Bai.
madam yu		What is it?
maid		Madam Yu, someone's put up posters.
madam yu		Let me see.
governess		Someone is after Jade Fox. Preposterous, looking for her here!
bo		Where are they?
homeless man		I don't know.  I haven't seen them in two days.
maid		There is a Miss Shu Lien here to see you.
governess		Miss is busy right now.
maid		I'll tell her.
jen		Show her in.
governess		This spells trouble.
jen		I have a guest.
maid		This way please.
jen		I've missed you.
yu		How so?
jen		I'm bored.
yu		You're doing calligraphy?
jen		I'll write your name.  Just for fun.
yu		I never realized my name looks like "sword."
yu		You write gracefully.  Calligraphy is so similar to fencing.
jen		Maybe it is.  I wouldn't know.
jen		Please.
yu		Thank you for seeing me.  I hear your wedding day is near.  You must be overwhelmed by the preparations.
jen		I'm hardly doing a thing.  The less I think of it the better.  My parents are arranging everything. The Gous are a very powerful family. My marrying one will be good for my father's career.
yu		You are fornuate to marry into such a noble family.
jen		Am I?  I wish I were like the heroes in the books I read.  Like you and Li Mu Bai.  I guess I'm happy to be marrying.  But to be free to live my own life, to choose whom I love... That is true happiness.
yu		Do you think so?  Let me tell you a story.
jen		About you and Li Mu Bai?
yu		Yes.  Did you know I was once engaged to be married?
jen		No, really?
yu		His name was Meng Si Zhao.  He was a brother to Li Mu Bai by oath. One day, while in battle, he was killed by the sword of Li Mu Bai's enemy.  After, Li Mu Bai and I went through a lot together.  Our feelings for each other grew stronger.  But how could we dishonor Meng's memory?  So the freedom you talk about, I too desire it.  But I have never tasted it.
jen		Too bad for Meng, but it's not your fault, or Li Mu Bai's.
yu		I am not an aristocrat, as you are... but I must still respect a woman's duties.
jen		Don't distance us.  From now on, let's be like sisters.
yu		Then as a sister, let me wish you happiness in your marriage.
madam yu		What a godforsaken place!  Can't your father be appointed closer to civilization?  Jen... are you listening to me?
tsai		Let's go!
tsai		Who are you?
bo		Wait!  I'm a friend!
tsai		I don't care about your sword.
bo		Why were you spying on the Yus?
tsai		I'm looking for someone.  Jade Fox. I'm a police inspector from Shaan Xi, Gen Su district.  Jade Fox is a master criminal.  I hear she infiltrated the Yus.  She must have come with them when they transferred here.  But with Yu's reputation, I can't just go in and accuse her.
bo		This Jade Fox is a woman?
tsai		Yes.
bo		Then leave her to me.
tsai		Pardon me, but I doubt you can handle her.  My wife was quite a martial arts expert.  Jade Fox killed her.  So you see, this is personal.  Leave her to me.
may		It's ready! 
bo		I'm ready for anything!
may		Father gets first dip.
tsai		They're gone.
may		What does it say?
tsai		"We'll settle this at midnight on Yellow Hill."  Good, the fox is out of her hole.
sir te		Shu Lien, look who's here.
li		Sir Te believes it's a ploy cast suspicion on Governor Yu.
yu		But something is going on at the Yu household.
li		What have you discovered?
li		Jade Fox?  Impossible.
yu		You always suspected she'd fled to the West.
li		I didn't think she'd dare come back to Peking!
yu		Is there any place safer than under the nose of Governor Yu?
li		So I shall avenge my master's death after all.
yu		Be careful.  Sir Te requires discretion.  Official business is difficult enough.  Don't let personal feelings make it worse. And I don't know... even this poster... could be some sort of trap.
li		Did you see who posted it?
yu		No.
li		It says Jade Fox is hiding at Yu's. On the night of the theft there was a brawl near Yu's.  Were you involved?
yu		It was Bo, Sir Te's man.  I hear he followed the thief to the Yus'.
li		Have you questioned him yet?
yu		No, not yet...
li		But your men are watching over Yu's compund?
yu		No, I'd already sent them home. You can blame me for losing the sword, but please trust that I'll get it back soon using my own methods.
li		That's not what I meant.  I don't care about the sword.
yu		What do you mean?  Didn't you come back here for it?
li		I don't know it was stolen until I got here.
yu		Then, why did you come?
li		Well, we had talked...
de lu		Pardon my intrusion.  Master Li, your room is ready.
li		Thank you.  Please lead the way.
bo		The fox doesn't care much for punctuality.  Still no sign of her.
tsai		Enough!  Show yourself.
fox		Tsai... you dog!  You will pay for your stubbornness.
bo		That's what you think, old witch!
tsai		If you surrender now, you'll suffer less.  But if you resist, I won't stop until you're dead.
may		Father!  Let me avenge my mother's death.
fox		You'll soon end up like her, you little whore!
bo		You'll pay for that!
tsai		 She's going to paralyze you!
tsai		May!
fox		Tsai, you filthy mongrel!  An ambush!
may		Father, are you all right?
li		Wudan should have gotten rid of you long ago.  It's been a long time, Jade Fox!  You don't remember me... But you should remember my master. You infiltrated Wudan while I was away.  You stole our master!  Now it's time for you to pay!
fox		Your master underestimated us women. Sure, he'd sleep with me, but he would never teach me.  He deserved to die by a woman's hand!
li		You stole the secrets of Wudan's highest martial arts.  But after ten years of training, your moves are still undisciplined.  And today, under a Wudan sword... you will die!
fox		Disciple, we'll kill them all!
bo		Another one!
fox		I must get rid of Tsai!
li		Who are you?  Why is the Green Destiny in your possession?
li		My name is Li Mu Bai.  The Green Destiny is mine.  Jade Fox can't be your master.  Where did you learn that "Xuan Piu" move?
li		Tell me, who is your master?
fox		We must kill them!
may		Father!
te		This is Tsai?
may		My father.  Police Inspector from Shaan.
te		This should be reported to Governor Yu.  The victim is an officer.  You believe the killer is hiding out in his compound.
yu		I'd bet my life on it!
te		 Come with me.
sir te		This needs to be resolved, and quickly.
li		I'll get into the Yu household and get her.  I'll ferret out Fox and her gang.
yu		We must be careful.  Governor Yu is a court official, and in charge of security.  Any disturbance will cast suspicion on him.  It might get Sir Te in trouble.
sir te		This is a delicate matter.
yu		Sir Te, can you find some excuse to invite Madam Yu and her daughter?
sir te		What do you have in mind?
yu		The best way to trap a fox is through her cubs.
madam yu		Madam Te is certainly spoiling us with these wedding gifts.  She's being so considerate.
yu		I'm sorry she's not feeling well enough to receive you today.
madam yu		I heard Sir Te lost something.  And now Madame Te's not feeling well...
yu		We know who stole the missing item. If the thief returns it, I'm sure Sir Te will pursue the matter no further.
madam yu		That's good.  Sometimes the help can't keep their hands to themselves. It's very embarassing.
yu		Sir Te knows that even well-meaning people can make mistakes... that can bring ruin to themselves and their families.
madam yu		But don't be too lenient.
yu		No mercy will be shown toward the murderer who turned up in Peking.
madam yu		A murderer?
yu		Yes.  The very killer of Li Mu Bai's own master.  Last night, she killed a policeman who had tracked her down.
madam yu		A female criminal!  Now that's news!
jen		You say she killed a policeman?
yu		Yes, from the West.  He went undercover and and followed her here,
madam yu		Maybe the murderer and the thief are one and the same.
yu		I doubt it.  This thief... it very unusual...
yu		...And most likely smarter than a mere killer.
jen		 Greetings, Sir Te.
sir te		Hello, Madam Yu.  This is Li Mu Bai, the renowned swordsman.
li		Delighted to meet you.
te		Miss Yu is soon to be married.
li		Congratulations.
may		Why don't you come in?
bo		I'm standing guard.
may		Come in.  It's cold.
may		Come in.  We don't have to fear Jade Fox if we're together.
li		Isn't it a bit too late to be out? You've brought me the sword?
figure		I do as I please.
li		Where's your master?
figure		What's it to you?
li		Had enough flying?  You've got potential.  You've studied the Wudan Manual but you don't understand it.  You need a real master.
figure		Do you think you are a real master?
li		Like most things, I am nothing. It's the same for this sword.  All of it is simply a state of mind.
figure		Stop talking like a monk!  Just fight!
li		Then tell me where Jade Fox is.
figure		On guard!
li		Real sharpness comes without effort.
li		No growth without assistant.  No action without reaction.  No desire without restraint.  Now give yourself up and find yourself again. There is a lesson for you.
figure		Go ahead.
li		Why should I?  You need practice. I can teach you to fight with the Green Destiny, but first you must learn to hold it in stillness.
figure		Why do you want to teach me?
li		I've always wanted a disciple worthy of Wudan's secrets.
figure		And if I use them to kill you?
li		That's a risk I'm willing to take. Deep down, you're good.  Even Jade Fox couldn't corrupt you.
figure		Wudan is a whorehouse!  Keep your lessons!
fox		You're home late... or should I say early?
jen		Why are you still here?  You killed a policeman.  You should leave! You'll bring ruin on my whole family.
fox		They wouldn't have found me if you hadn't stolen the sword.  Like a little girl, you thought stealing would be fun?  You, too, are responsible for that death.  Come with me.  You don't want to waste your life as the wife of some bureaucrat.  Denied your talent... As a master and disciple we will rule.
jen		I'll never live as a thief!
fox		You're already a thief.
jen		That was just for fun.  How can I leave?  Where would I go?
fox		Wherever we want.  We'll get rid of anyone in our way.  Even your father.
jen		Shut up!
fox		It's the Giang Hu fighter lifestyle... kill or be killed. Exciting, isn't it?
jen		I owe you nothing.
fox		Yes, you do!  You are still my disciple.
jen		You think you've been teaching me all these years from the manual? You couldn't even decipher the symbols!
fox		I studied the diagrams.  But you hid the details!
jen		You wouldn't have understood, even if I had tried to explain.  You know... you've gone as far as you can go.  I hid my skills so as not to hurt you.
fox		If I hadn't seen you fight with Li Mu Bai, I'd still be ignorant of all you've hidden from me.
jen		Master... I started learning from you in secret when I was 10.  You enchanted me with the world of Giang Hu.  But once I realized I could surpass you, I became so frightened!  Everything fell apart. I had no one to guide me, no one to learn from.
fox		Believe me, I've a lesson or two left to teach you!
yu		The sword is back... are you happy?
li		I admit, getting it back makes me realize how much I'd missed it.
yu		But it's not your sword anymore. You gave it to Sir Te.
li		True.  But I must borrow it for one last mission.  Jade Fox must die at its edge.  Did you know what you were hiding when you covered for that girl?
yu		My job was to get the sword back, without embarassing anyone.  I wasn't about to ruin her life, or her father's.
li		You did your job well.  But, this girl... I saw her last night.
yu		I knew she would intrigue you.
li		She needs direction... and training.
yu		She's an aristocrat's daughter. She's not one of us.  In any case, it will all be over soon.  You'll kill Fox, and she'll marry.
li		That's not for her.  She should come to Wudan and become a disciple.
yu		But Wudan does not accept women.
li		For her, they might make an exception.  If not, I'm afraid she'll become a poisoned dragon.
yu		It's not our affair.  Even if Wudan accepts her, her husband might object.
li		I thought by giving away the sword, I could escape the Giang Hu world. But the cycle of bloodshed continues.
yu		I wish there were something more I could do to help you.
li		Just be patient with me, Shu Lien.
jen		Lo?
lo		Jen!
jen		You shouldn't have come.
lo		With all the traffic on your rooftop these days... it took me a while to get in here.  I can't wait any longer.  I was wrong to let you go.  Come back with me.  You'll be happy in the desert.  You'll be free there.
jen		You've been looking for me all this time?
madam yu		Jen... stop playing with it.
jen		I won't break it.
madam yu		Lower the shade, don't let them see you!
lo		Let's go!
lo		Come get your comb.
lo		Hurry back to your mother.
lo		She's mine.
lo		Let's stop a moment.
jen		Give it back!
lo		 You're tired.  You need rest.  Your horse needs water.  There's a creek up here.
lo		Well, there used to be!  What's your name?  I'm Lo.  The Hans call me Dark Cloud.  I'm not that tall or big, but I'm quick as lightning.
jen		My comb!
lo		If you like that arrow, I can make you a bow.  Great for hunting wild chicken.  They're delicious.
lo		You need to eat, understand?  Then you'll have the strength to fight. Understand?
lo		You're eating too fast.  Slowly.
lo		You've got quite a temper.  It's better this way.
jen		You coward!
lo		Still in a bad mood?  At least you're speaking.  What's your name?
lo		I didn't think the Hans had names like that.
lo		Relax.  If I had wanted to, I would already have done it.  You must be dying for a bath.  Fresh water's hard to get here.  But I managed to bring some up.  You can wear my clothes when you're done.  They're clean.  Don't worry.  I'll sing, so you'll know where I am.  After the bath, you'll be calmer.
lo		No more hitting on the head!  All this trouble for a comb?
jen		It's mine.  It means a lot to me. A barbarian like you wouldn't understand.
lo		Not true.  I can use it to pick fleas from my horse.
jen		By the way, I'm a real Manchurian.
lo		I'm sorry... I guessed wrong.  I though you were a Han.
jen		Give me back my comb.
lo		I don't take orders from anyone.
jen		Give it back.
lo		When I was a boy, one night, I saw a thousand shooting stars.  I thought, where did they all go? I'm an orphan.  I used to look for stars alone.  I thought if I rode to the other end of the desert, I'd find them.  I've been riding in the desert ever since.
jen		And so, the little boy became a fearsome bandit.  He couldn't find the stars, so he stole my comb.
lo		Out here, you always fight for survival.  You have to be part of a gang to stand a chance.  Slowly, your gang becomes your family.  All that Dark Cloud stuff is just to scare people and make my life easier.
jen		So you're still that little boy looking for shooting stars.
lo		I am a man.  And now I've found the brightest star of all.
lo		Your father's men are looking for you.
lo		Your father's men are still looking for you.  They're still out there, circling closer.
jen		Let them look.
lo		It is trouble for me.
jen		Don't send me back!
lo		You must decide.  You might get tired of this life.  You might begin to miss your family.  If it were our daughter, we'd look for her too.  She would miss us.  Jen... I want you to be mine forever.  I will make my mark on the world.  I will earn your parents' respect. We have a legend.  Anyone who dares to jump from the mountain, God will grant his wish.  Long ago, a young man's parents were ill, so he jumped.  He didn't die.  He wasn't even hurt.  He floated away, far away, never to return.  He knew his wish had come true.  If you believe, it will happen.  The elders say, "A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
jen		Keep it safe.  Return it to me when we are together again.
lo		I will.
jen		 If you don't, I'll come after you. And I won't let you off so easy.
lo		Wherever I went, someone always recognized me.  I really tried. Later, I heard you came to Peking. I was afraid I'd never see you again.  So I came.  I can't let you marry.
jen		 Go.
lo		Jen...
jen		 Don't ever come back.
lo		So it's over?
jen		Yes.
maid		We heard noises.
jen		It was just a cat.
yu		You think Jade Fox will show up?
li		She's out there, but I doubt she'll show herself.  We'll keep our eyes open.  Sooner or later, she'll come for the girl.
lo		 Jen!  Come with me!  You're mine!
lo		Come with me to the desert!  Jen! Come with me to Xin Jiang!
li		Where is Jade Fox?
yu		 Come with me!  Hurry!
yu		 You thought she'd give it all up and go back West with you?
lo		She's mine.
li		Either way, you are no good to her dead.  With the Gou and Yu clans hunting you, you'll soon be in their hands.
lo		I don't care anymore.
li		If you truly loved her, you wouldn't say that.
yu		Don't you want to see her again.
li		All right.  I'll write you an introduction.  Take it to Wudan. Wait there for news from me.
lo		All right.
sir te		When will this end?  They take it, they put it back, they take it again.  My home is turning into a warehouse.
te		Speak!
bo		Jen has run away!  Gou found the wedding chamber empty.  Governor Yu requests your assistance.  You know the Giang Hu underworld.  He wants to find her, and keep her from harm.
li		Sir Te, leave this to us.  Don't worry.
waitress		What can I serve you?
jen		The cup is dirty.
jen		 Long.
jen		Anywhere there's action.
jen		Don't bother.
jen		So what if I don't?
jen		He is my defeated foe!
yu		Have some tea.
li		Shu Lien... The things we touch have no permanence.  My master would say... there is nothing we can hold on to in this world.  Only by letting go can we truly possess what is real.
yu		Not everything is an illusion.  My hand... wasn't that real?
li		Your hand, rough and callused from machete practice... All this time, I've never had the courage to touch it.
li		Giang Hu is a world of tigers and dragons, full of corruption... I tried sincerely to give it up but I have brought us only trouble.
yu		To repress one's feelings only makes them stronger.
li		You're right, but I don't know what to do.  I want to be with you... just like this.  It gives me a sense of peace.
waiter		Please follow me.
jen		I want a clean room.
waiter		We have plenty.  Your order?
jen		Steamed whole cod, bite-size meatballs, a little starchy, but keep the sauce light, shark fin soup, mixed vegetables, and some warm wine.
waiter		 I have to order from a bigger restaurant.
jen		Hurry then.
mi biao		I am Iron Arm Mi.  I heard a true master has arrived.  I have come to seek a lesson.
mi biao		 You asked for it!
jen		What kind of Iron Arm are you?
jen		Southern Duck?  I don't eat anything with two feet.  Who could remember such long-winded names?
jen		Who are you?
jen		 Gou?  I hate that name.  It makes me puke!  Too bad you're named Gou. You'll be the first to feel my sword today.
monk jing		Hold it!  Don't you know Monk Jing?
jen		A monk, in a place like this?  You need a lesson!
monk jing		Who are you?
jen		Who am I?  I am... I am the Invincible Sword Goddess.  Armed with the Incredible... Green Destiny.  Be you Li or Southern Crane... lower your head... and ask for mercy.  I am the desert dragon. I leave no trace.  Today I fly over Eu-Mei.  Tomorrow... I'll kick over Wudan Mountain!
mi biao		Her sword was just too powerful.
monk jing		I've traveled everywhere, but never met anyone so uncivilized.
yu		Her husband.
li		 We're close to your headquarters. Go home and check in.
yu		What about you?
li		I'll look around and catch up later.
yu		Not a bad idea.  Tonight we'll get a good night's sleep at headquarters.
yu		It's you!  How's everything here?
captain		Fine.  You've been gone a while.
yu		Yes, and I leave again tomorrow. Your wife was due?
ah wai		Yeah, a baby girl.
yu		Good!
ah wai		I'll be happy if she's half as strong as you.
yu		Mrs. Wu...
aunt wu		You're back!
yu		How's the arm?  Still sore?
aunt wu		Much better.  You've been gone so long.
yu		Li Mu Bai is coming to stay the night.
aunt wu		 I'll go and make up his room!
jen		Sister Shu Lien...
yu		Here you must be in proper attire.
jen		I'm just borrowing some clean clothes.  I'm not staying.
yu		I'll give them to you.
jen		I was just passing by and wondered how you were.
jen		You, sister...
yu		Look at the trouble you've caused. Now you know what Giang Hu life is really like.  If you think of me as your sister, let me give you some sisterly advice.  You can run from marriage, but not your parents.
jen		They forced me to marry!
yu		Go back to them first.  Then you can decide about Lo.
jen		You know about Lo?
yu		He really loves you.  Come back to Peking with me.  We'll find a solution.
jen		Where is he now?
yu		Li Mu Bai has made arrangements. He sent him to Wudan Mountain.
jen		You're working together to set me up!  I'm leaving!
yu		How dare you accuse us?  I always knew you had stolen the sword! I've done nothing but protect you and your family.  And you're repaid me with nothing but contempt.  Li Mu Bai himself spared you, and all you do is insult him.  We wanted some peace and you've ruined it all! You're no sister of mine!
jen		What do I care?  You were never a real friend anyway.  But I wonder, how long could you last as my enemy?
yu		Put the sword down!
yu		 Jen!
yu		Everyone out.  Shut the doors.
yu		Fine... the friendship is over.
yu		Don't touch it!  That's Li Mu Bai's sword.
jen		Come and get it if you can.
yu		Without the Green Destiny, you are nothing.
jen		Don't be a sore loser.  Go ahead. Take your pick.  I'll wait.  Go ahead.
yu		Give me the sword.
jen		Take it!
li		 Stop it!  You don't deserve the Green Destiny.
jen		Not another lecture!  On guard!
li		Let's end this here.
jen		Only the sword will settle this.
li		I only let you go because I wanted to see the real you.
jen		What do you know about a true heart?
jen		What do you want?
li		What I've always wanted, to teach you.
jen		All right.  If you can take back the sword in three moves, I'll go with you.
jen		Give it back!
li		Kneel!
jen		Never!
li		Then you have no use for the sword.
fox		Sooner or later, they'd drag you back to Peking.  Your parents will never accept you again.  But why go home?  We've gone this far, we won't stop now.  You'll always be my lady.  At last, we'll be our own masters.  We'll be happy.  That's the most important thing.  All we have left is each other, right? Lie down and rest.
aunt wu		She's crazy.  You should have killed her.
yu		I didn't have the heart.
aunt wu		Well, Li Mu Bai can do it.
jen		Is it me or the sword you want?
li		You've been drugged!
li		Where is Jade Fox?
yu		What happened?
li		Jade Fox drugged her.  How did you get here?
yu		We followed Jade Fox.
li		And so you die.
fox		And so shall you!
yu		A poisoned needle!
fox		You deserve to die, but the life I was hoping to take... was Jen's. Ten years I devoted to you.  But you deceived me!  You hid the manual's true meaning.  I never improved... but your progress was limitless!  You know what poison is? An eight-year-old girl, full of deceit.  That's poison!  Jen!  My only family... my only enemy...
yu		You can't die!  Tell us what poison you used!  You can't die!  Tell us the antidote!  You can't let Li Mu Bai die!
jen		She used Purple Yin... Purple Yin poison.  It goes straight to the heart.
li		My blood will soon reverse its flow. It's the same poison she used to kill my master.  There is no antidote.
yu		That can't be!  Everything has an antithesis!  Why not this?
jen		The antidote exists.  She taught it to me.  The formula is simple, but it takes time to prepare.  Trust me. As you have helped me, let me help you.
li		All right.  Hurry.  I will hold on as long as I can.
yu		 Take my horse and go to the compound. Give this to Mrs. Wu.  She'll help you.  Hurry!
jen		Spare your energy.  I'll be back!
jen		Where is Mrs. Wu?
aunt wu		Stop it!
jen		Shu Lien told me to show you this.
aunt wu		Let her in.
yu		Mu Bai, hold on.  Give me some hope...
li		Shu Lien...
yu		Save your strength.
li		My life is departing.  I've only one breath left.
yu		Use it to meditate.  Free yourself from this world as you have been taught.  Let your soul rise to eternity with your last breath.  Do not waste it... for me.
li		I've already wasted my whole life. I want to tell you with my last breath... I have always loved you. I would rather be a ghost, drifting by your side... as a condemned soul... than enter heaven without you.  Because of your love... I will never be a lonely spirit.
jen		He's gone?
yu		Bo... please take this sword back to Sir Te.
yu		 Now you must go to Wudan Mountain. Lo awaits you there.  Promise me one thing, whatever path you take in this life... be true to yourself.
jen		Do you remember the legend of the young man?
lo		"A faithful heart makes wishes come true."
jen		Make a wish, Lo.
lo		 To be back in the desert, together again.
****Dialogues from script :Croupier.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Crow.txt****

alexi		Snow, maybe?
dimitri		What, you gonna ski on this?
elly		Guess the picnic got rained out.
elly		Oh, scary.
albrecht		You gotta put the mustard underneath first.
mickey		Maybe a flood, like in the Bible.
albrecht		Here, let me do it.
albrecht		Come on... onion.  Don't cheap out on me.  Lotta onions.
mickey		Heyyy -- it's the Elly monster.
albrecht		How do you ride that thing on a wet street?
elly		Talent. Hi.
albrecht		Care for a hot dog?
elly		You buying?
albrecht		I'm buying.
elly		No onions though, okay?
albrecht		 No onions?
elly		They make you fart.
mickey		What's goin' on, Elly?
elly		I went to see a friend of mine.
mickey		Well, how's your friend?
elly		She's still dead.
eric		What the hell are you?
skull cowboy		Interested?  Follow the crow.
skank		What about working girl?
skank		I say we leave her here to fry, man.
tb		 Skank, shut her the fuck up!
skank		Whoaaa -- T-Bird, red light, red light!
albrecht		Goddammit.
mickey		Call it in?
albrecht		Yeah, do it!  Stay right there!
mickey		 You want I should save this for you?
albrecht		Here now!  You're gonna be okay! Can you understand me?  I'm a police officer...
woman		He touched me and it stopped.  The pain.
albrecht		What did you say?
woman		I saw a ghost...
albrecht		Oh no... don't go, darlin', you stay with me, now... shit!
eric		Fire.  In the rain.
ngo nwa		He will see me... unannounced.
lao		 When I spoke of an offering, I didn't mean an offering to you.
grange		You gonna smoke his bones now, or however it is you do it?
eric		"My kitten walks on velvet feet, and makes no sound at all.  And in the doorway nightly sits to watch the darkness fall.  I think he loves the lady night..."  Am I alive?  Am I dead?  Something else?  Something in between?
eric		Thanks for sharing that.
gideon		Ahhh, jesus, the creatures of the night, here they come.  Tweedledum and Tweedledummer.
skank		Hey, blow me, fat boy!
gideon		Blow yourself, bigmouth.
gideon		Whatcha got?
gideon		18k.  Crap.
gideon		Nineteen bucks at Sears.  Fake,
gideon		What's this -- a little, ah, bloodstain, right?  Fifty bucks for the box, and I'm doin' you a --
skank		You wouldn't want Top Dollar not to smile.
eric		All right.
eric		Thanks.
eric		Are we finished yet?
albrecht		Victim's name is Shelly Webster. The guy who got tossed is, uh ...-- 
eric		"Draven, Eric."
bouncer		Hey!  You got any ID?
elly		Very funny.  Ha.  Ha.  Oh my, sides.
elly		Mom --?
darla		I told you you're not supposed to come in here.
elly		 I lost my key.
darla		 Out.  Now.  I gotta work.
eric		No!  Don't look!  No! No!
eric		 Stop it.
skank		Fuck you, T-Bird.
funboy		Hey, pussycat.
funboy		More fun than a torture chamber.
eric		We have company.
skull cowboy		Having fun yet?  No?  I'll give you a hint.  Remember whatshername?
eric		Shelly?
skull cowboy		Miss her?
eric		Yes.
skull cowboy		Kill the men who killed you both, and the Day of the Dead will be your reunion.
eric		Goddammit.
skull cowboy		Get it?
eric		Leave me alone -- !
skull cowboy		 Do something about it. ANOTHER ANGLE - ERIC AND THE SKULL COWBOY.
eric		I guess I'm not ready to leave... just yet.
ratso		Please, TIn-Tin, you know I'm good for the money, man, I promise, Leslie put me up to it, please, man, don't -- 
eric		Hello, Tin-Tin.
eric		Murderer.
eric		Try harder.  Try again.
eric		A year ago.  Halloween.  A man and a woman.  In a loft.  You helped to murder them.
eric		You cut her.  You raped her.  You watched!
eric		I want you to tell me a story, Tin-Tin.
eric		Victims.  Aren't we all.
eric		Halloween is coming.  The Day of the Dead...
shelly		Your scary quotient needs work.
shelly		I think red's my color, don't you?
skull cowboy		Glad to see you're finally with the program.
eric		Bugger off to the graveyard, skull- face, I'm busy.
skull cowboy		You work for the dead.  Forget that, and you can forget it all.
eric		Forget this.
eric		She always red red was her color.
eric		All right, bad guys...
eric		 Here I commme -- !
torres		Couldn't have happened to a nicer couple.
albrecht		Sure it coulda.  Funboy's not here, neither is T-Bird -- none of Top Dollar's number ones.
torres		You know, you sure got a hard-on for a guy that's guilty of zip on paper.  Top Dollar runs Showtime; what's the matter, don't you like adult entertainment?
albrecht		This sack of shit is called Tin- Tin.
torres		Don't any of your little pals have real, grown up names?
albrecht		He was a runner for Top Dollar. Just muscle.
torres		Was. ALBRECHT  This isn't Top Dollar's style anyway.  This was somebody else. Somebody new.
torres		And you're gonna tell me who.
albrecht		Who ever made that.
torres		What in the hell... do you call that?
albrecht		I call it blood, Detective.  If you want, you can call it graffiti.
gideon		Piss off, we're closed.
gideon		Fucking creatures of the night; they never goddamn learn.
eric		"Suddenly I heard a tapping, as of someone gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door."  You heard me rapping, right?
gideon		Oh, bullshit!  You're trespassing asshole, you're breakin' and enterin' and you just bought me a fucking door!
eric		I'm looking for something in an engagement ring.  Gold.
gideon		You're looking for a coroner,shit- for-brains!
eric		I repeat: a gold engagement ring. It was pawned here, a year ago, by another gentleman whose name, I believe was... "T-Bird"?
gideon		 I ain't got no fuckin' ring.
eric		Wrong answer.
gideon		All's I got is in a box!  Behind the counter!
eric		No... no... no... no...
eric		Tin-Tin confided in me, before he ran out of breath.  You have one chance to live. GIDEON No fucking way.  He'll kill me.
eric		Who would waste time killing you... besides me?
gideon		 Top Dollar.
eric		Another jolly nickname?
gideon		You want those assholes, you want Top Dollar.
eric		T-Bird?
gideon		Like the car.  He hangs out with Skank. that little ass-hair, and they hang at the Pit -- hell, Funboy lives there.  Ask Top Dollar.
eric		A whole club of pirates, with pirate names...
eric		You feed off the living.
gideon		You walk outta here Top Dollar will erase your ass!  Top Dollar owns the fucking street here and you can't dick with me, you son of a bitch!
eric		One chance to live.  Take it.
eric		I thought the police always said "freeze:.
albrecht		I'm the police and I say don't move, Snow White.  You're under arrest; I don't care what else is wrong with you!  You move and you're dead.
eric		And I say I'm dead... and I move.
albrecht		No further.  I'm serious.
eric		Then shoot, if you will.
albrecht		Are you nuts, walking into a gun?
eric		You must listen carefully:  the Fire Department will be here soon. There is an injured man in the alley who needs assistance.  As Shelly Webster once needed your assistance, and as you are shortly going to need my assistance.
albrecht		You wanna run that back for me one time?
eric		Listen:  Top Dollar.  He "owns the street here."  He will "erase my ass."
albrecht		You don't say.
eric		I know Top Dollar has turned your streets into his hell.
albrecht		Fucking A, my friend.
eric		The others are called Skank, T- Bird.  Street names.  Funboy.  Watch me, office Albrecht.
albrecht		Watch it...
albrecht		You're the one who did Tin-Tin...
dickey bird		T-Bird.  Thrill me.
top dollar		Wild fucking night.  I hear our pal Tin-Tin got himself very dead.
top dollar		Bet that pisses you off, right?
top dollar		Stay normal, T.  Cops'll be all hotwired and aggressive.  No combat moves until I check this out.
elly		What are you supposed to be?  A clown?
eric		Sometimes.
elly		You look like a rock star without a job.
eric		I dabble.  May I?
elly		If you're not some kinda child molester.
top dollar		I thought Halloween was tomorrow night.
top dollar		Get outta my way, you mooks.
lao		An unexpected pleasure.
top dollar		Bad news.  Alot of action on the streets tonight, and nobody bothered to clear it with me.  Tin- Tin got himself whacked.
lao		Who got himself what?
top dollar		One of mine.  And it wasn't a standard hit.
lao		I had heard something like this.  Describe it for me.  The "hit".
top dollar		I was wondering if you could tell me anything... about a wildcat operative.
lao		I know of no one.  But even if there is, I am sure it is nothing outside your capacity to deal with?
top dollar		Anybody violates my turf -- our turf -- I'll rip out there heart and show it to 'em.
lao		To be sure.  Now tell how your friend died.
annabella		Whatever it is, the answer's no, Eddie.  I'm too busy tonight.
albrecht		Annie, I need a file.
annabella		Speak up.  Clear it with the Captain if you need a file.
albrecht		This is special, darlin'.  Please?
annabella		Just don't tell me you "owe me one."  What file?
albrecht		Double homicide.  A year ago. Las Halloween.
elly		My mom works over there.  I'm waiting for her, but she's probably with him, right now.
eric		Who?
elly		Mister Funboy.
eric		Mister Funboy lives there?
elly		He has a room, upstairs.  I don't like him very much.
eric		I can pick out a tune now and again.
elly		Can you play "Teddy Bears' Picnic?"  It used to be her favorite.
eric		Does she have a name?
elly		No name.  You sure ask a lot of questions.
eric		No.
elly		You gotta go now, I bet.
eric		I have to go.
grange		Top Dollar?
bounce		Never heard of him.
grange		Funboy?
bouncer		Oh, prob'ly upstairs bangin' Darla.  Pay for your own beer and they'll prob'ly be down before you can drink it.
annabella		Don't thank me.  Your ass is already in enough trouble for this shit.
albrecht		I knew that.
albrecht		Another nice white girl with a cause.  Like a big KICK ME sign.
annabella		Your last little wild goose chase got you busted back to the Beat Patrol, just like in a bad detective story, Eddie. Are we doing the wildgoose thing again?
albrecht		Could be.
annabella		You gonna wind up working at a school crosswalk.   that doughnut's chocolate you, know.
albrecht		Well, hello there...chocolate,
annabella		Don't thank me.
albrecht		Thanks, babe.
eric		It's a Raymond Chandler evening And the pavements are all wet, And I'm lurking in the shadows, for it hasn't happened ...
darla		Ooh, baby -- gimme all of it.
darla		It's a big fucking bird...
funboy		It's a squab.  Here bird, Here, birdie...
eric		Here Funboy.
funboy		Oh wow, oh wow, don't fucking do that, man.  I nearly had a fucking heart attack.
darla		Fun -- look at that guy...
funboy		It's just the dope, don't worry
darla		Fun, he's not going away; he's scaring the piss outta me!
funboy		Not me.
funboy		You are seriously fucked up, man. Just look at yourself.
eric		Bull's eye.  Good shot.
eric		Stay.
eric		Morphine is bad for you.
funboy		How the hell did you do that?
eric		Magic.
funboy		Either die or do a solo.
eric		Neither.
funboy		Yeah, I got a more fun idea myself.
funboy		I hate trespassers!  And right now I hate you!
funboy		Ahh, the hell with it, I still got five shots left.
funboy		Owwwaaaa -- fuck me!  Look what you did to my sheets, you lame piece'a shit!  AAAAaa!  Goddd!
eric		Does it hurt?
funboy		Does it hurt?!  You dead-ass, clown-faced fuck, of course it fucking hurts!  What the shit are you gonna do about this?!
eric		I have some pain killer right here.
funboy		No, wait, no WAIT, that's too much, man, that's like overkill, nobody can take that much, you're wasting it -- !
eric		Your pain ends now.
skull cowboy		Howdy  You look a mess.  Like an ole cooter dog.
skull cowboy		Getting a little ambitious and extracurricular, aren't we?
eric		Go away.
skull cowboy		You need to learn to mind your own business or you'll never get where you think you're going.
eric		Shut up.
skull cowboy		Maybe I was wrong about you.
eric		Your daughter is out there, on the street, waiting for you.
eric		Go.  Now.
bouncer		Hey, g'night, Darla.  That there is Darla.
grange		Funboy?
eric		Freeze.
albrecht		Jeezus!  Don't ever do that, man!
eric		I saw it, too.
albrecht		You died, man.  I can't believe it but here you are.  Last year, you and your girlfriend --
eric		I need you to tell me what you remember.  What happened to us?
albrecht		You went out the window.  She was beaten and raped.  She died in the hospital.
albrecht		You okay, man?  I mean, what just happened.
eric		The venom of bad memories.  You were there; you saw her.  I saw you seeing her.
albrecht		You gotta understand -- I was hoping she'd talk, give me a lead, a clue, something to work with. But she only said one thing to me before she died.
eric		My name.
albrecht		 I'm sorry as hell, man.
eric		Thirty hours.  A day of life, plus change...
eric		Halloween is coming, soon.  You will have Top Dollar if you watch for me at the Showtime, tomorrow night.
albrecht		I should be trying to stop you.
eric		Thank you.  For giving a damn.
albrecht		My pleasure. ERIC Don't smoke these.
albrecht		Damn, I wish he wouldn't do that.
grange		The son of a bitch winked at me. The he jumped.  Three stories.
lao		Did you see an animal of any kind? Did you see a bird?
grange		 There was a drawing on the wall that looked like a bird.  In blood.
lao		Good.
skank		I wish to hell I had torched Gideon's, that fat fuck.
skank		Got it.
eric		I'm your passenger.  You drive. And stop talking.
skank		What's all this happy horseshit?
axel		Alright, alright, alright -- everybody be cool and stay exactly where you are.
chopper		Whooooa, cowboy!  Cool gun.
eric		That's good.  We're going someplace you've never been before.
mj		Smells like rain.
speeg		Smells like a septic tank.  You got that cream stuff?
mj		In the bag.
mj		What in the crap?
speeg		Ow! Owowoowowoowo, goddammit!
eric		You caught one.  Drive faster.
eric		I want you to stop talking.  And drive.  Drive faster.
eric		 Naturally.
eric		Time for your reward, T.  Payback with interest earned.
eric		A little restrictive?  Good.  What's the lag on this?  About twenty seconds, would you say?
eric		All gone.
darla		I never was too good at this domestic shit.
elly		Don't say "shit".  That's okay.  Corn Flakes are okay.  Anything.
mickey		Chili dog for breakfast... it's original.
elly		Mom tried to cook.
mickey		Oh.
mickey		 Everyone's a comedian.  Enjoy.
elly		A lot of people "know" my mom.
grange		I know your friend, too -- the one that looks like a rock star.
elly		I don't know you.
grange		 I'd like to get in touch with him.
elly		You're not a cop, either.  What do you want him for?
grange		I'm looking for a good guitar man.
elly		Right.
grange		I need to find him kind of soon, Elly.
eric		That's better.
skank		Top, I made the sumbitch!  Face all painted white like some kinda fuckin' kabuki homo!
lao		Sounds like our "Crow" is out-maneuvering you.
top dollar		"Our" Crow...?
lao		Come now.  You've seen the graffiti -- all over the city in the few hors it has taken your men to drop like plague victims. What about your turf, Top?  You don't seem to have ripped out anyone's heart yet.
top dollar		 The night is young.
skank		 The found T-bird flash-fried to what was left of his fucking car!
top dollar		Hey, you little fuckweed!  That's against the law!
lao		I am sitting over here.
top dollar		Nice speech.  What's it supposed to mean?
lao		Your comprehension is not required.  Your cooperation and, indeed, your ability are the issues on the table.
top dollar		Whatever you say, I can do.
lao		That's reassuring.
skank		What was that -- !?
top dollar		Too many poppers, Skank.  Relax.  Heel.
top dollar		 You want my attention, man you got it.
skank		It's him, Top!  He dusted T-Bird!
eric		You have to be SKank.  One moment.
eric		Thank of a snappy comeback for me on your way down.
mj		OwwwAAHHH son of a BITCH!
eric		Top Dollar, you're the only one here still wasting good air...
top dollar		Five large, in the drawer right over there.  I never saw you.
eric		Do you know what you destroyed?
top dollar		Take the dope, too.
eric		A year ago.  A very nice lady circulated a petition.  She died. Last Halloween.  Answer yes or no.
top dollar		That's ancient history.
eric		It's yesterday!  Do you know what you destroyed?
top dollar		Who gives a fuck!  I'm a businessman.  You gonna do me, then do me and shut you're face!
eric		You don't even remember...
top dollar		I never forget anything, dickhead. That building was a sweep-and- clear; the bitch was a nuisance with her goddamned petition.  It got a little rowdy... end of story.
eric		Rowdy.  Let me fill in some gaps for you.
eric		You're a detail man, Top -- you need to see more.
eric		All of her pain, Top.  Thirty hours.  All at once...
eric		I didn't think you could handle it either.
lead swat		That's all she wrote, Bozo!  You stand down now, and that's an order!
lead swat		The fire escape's covered.
lead swat		Holy shit, it's spiderman.
lead swat		Dammit to hell!  Come on.
albrecht		 Come on!
albrecht		Keep your head down!
eric		It's done. ALBRECHT I figured as much.  Did you cap off Funboy.
eric		Funboy had to leave this mortal coil.
albrecht		Yeah, among others.  Hey, man -- you're hit.
eric		It's only a flesh wound.
albrecht		It's only fourteen or fifteen flesh wounds.
eric		You shouldn't smoke these.
albrecht		Great.  Litterbug of the Living Dead.
eric		I'm finished.
albrecht		 You sure I can't just take you to the emergency ward?
albrecht		You're gonna kill somebody else.  We're gonna stop and get a shit-load of Band-Aids?
eric		I have to prepare for an anniversary.  This coming night.
grange		What... the hell is that?
lao		 This is a cobra, Mr. Grange.  Yes, it is real.
grange		That thing is poisonous.
lao		Extremely so.  You and I are the recipients of unwanted good fortune, in the form of a man everyone is calling The Crow.
grange		Give me a break.  That guy's a wacko...
lao		I intend no slight to you, but I cannot find the English to adequately express just what he is.  I suppose Western mythology would describe him as a Fury.
grange		Not a Plymouth Fury, I bet.
lao		Do you know of spirit assassins? You do know the dead can rise? Properly motivated, of course.
grange		Like some sort of zombie on a revenge trip.
lao		Mmm.  But tonight I can take what is his.
grange		Only thing you'll get from that clown is a faster way to die. LAO To the contrary...
grange		Kill a dead guy?
lao		Truly kill him.  So I may crush his skull and smoke it.
elly		What's going on...?
eric		A remembrance.  A closure.
eric		Better now.  I feel good.  How are you, Elly, my friend?
eric		What is it? ELLY I knew.  I knew I knew you.  Even with the makeup and stuff you wore.  You really loved her, didn't you?
eric		You brought flowers.  As long as you don't forget her, Elly, she lives.
elly		 She's dead.  She's gone.  And now you're just gonna go away and never come back, too.  I hate this place; it isn't fair.
eric		Elly...
elly		You look funny without your white face on.  Like it's your day off or something.
eric		Somebody here wants to meet you. Gabriel?
elly		I remember him!  Here, Gabriel... here kitty... Gabriel... Is he still yours?
eric		I think he's yours, now.
elly		Nobody ever gave me something like that before.  Ever.
eric		Shelly would've wanted you to have it.  This way, you'll think of her every time you see it...
elly		And she'll be alive.  Up here.
elly		You're gonna like it here.
darla		I was wonderin' where you'd gotten to --  Oh, Elly, honey, a cat.  Here?
elly		He was a present.  Besides, we're moving anyway.  You said.
darla		We'll discuss this later. Obviously.  You left the door open.
grange		Hi, Elly.  Remember me?
darla		I don't remember you.  And I don't remember inviting...
grange		 If she opens her face again, shoot her in the head.
elly		 Mom -- !
grange		You should listen to your mother. She said no cats.
elly		Gabriel!
grange		Now that's the expression I want.
creature kid		Trick or treat!
skull cowboy		Stop screwing around.
eric		Tell me I'll get hurt.  That I might die.  I've already done that.  I don't need anyone's help.  Yours included.
skull cowboy		Do this thing and you will be vulnerable.  The blood will not return.  No powers.  No reunion.  Nothing.
eric		Fine with me.
skull cowboy		You'll be alone.
eric		I'm already alone.
grange		We've got company.
grange		He's just out front talking to himself.  You tell me.
eric		Don't waste my time.
skull cowboy		Very well, it's your ass.
eric		But why are you still here?
eric		I can see her.
lao		Of course you can. ANGLE - GRANGE IN THE GALLERY --  in darkness.  The running lights on his night-scoped, laser-sighted sniper's rifle which THROWS vague sprays of eerie red and green light.
grange		 Move in, guys.
lao		I wish to possess what you have now.
eric		I want the girl.  Unharmed.  Now.
lao		I know.  That is why I will prevail.  Mr. Grange... ?
lao		Sooner or later, my action were destined to bring me a genuine Fury.  And it turned out to be you. At last.  I appreciate your abilities as few mortals can. That's why I desire them.
eric		You're too late.  There was a guy outside - on the stairs - you really need to talk to.  But he turned to dust and blew away.  I don't have any power for you to take.
lao		I don't believe that. Lao motions to Grange with the killing blade.  Grange RELAXES his deathgrip on the crow.  MOVE IN CLOSE on Eric so we may perceive a palpable degree of relief.
albrecht		Had to go get yourself hip-deep in shit, didn't you, my friend.
lao		I said no shooting!
albrecht		You sorta looked like you might need my help.
eric		This isn't your place.  This isn't your fight.  And I don't need your help.
albrecht		You're welcome.
eric		Leave here.  Don't do this.  I don't want you here.
albrecht		The hell you say.  This isn't just about you any more.
eric		Don't interfere.
albrecht		You're bleeding, man.  You can't make it.
albrecht		You won't mind if I just take the stairs, then, smartass...
eric		Here I am.
lao		Can you fly, Crow man?
albrecht		I ain't cut out for this superhero shit.
lao		Face me!
albrecht		Is he dead yet?
lao		No.  You are.
elly		You go to hell, you pervert!
eric		And how many lives have you destroyed?
lao		I took yours from you.  Your little girlfriend?  I took hers, too.  Your meaningless, petty life?  I took it so that tonight your existence might gain a purpose.  You're no avenger. You're mine.
eric		 You're right, I'm not an avenger. Not any more.
eric		Time for a sacrifice.
lao		I don't need eyes to take what I want from you.
eric		Can you fly?
elly		Don't let me fall!
elly		Now do you get to see her? Shelly, I mean.
eric		In a better place.  I hope.
elly		You're not gonna come back, are you?
eric		I don't know if I can.  But you have this... and you know where to come.
elly		You mean you'll, like' dig your way out of the grave?  Euww.
eric		For you, I'll try.  Promise.
eric		Leave me now.
darla		Worktime, kiddo.  First day, new job, gotta go.
darla		At least it finally stopped raining.
elly		It can't rain all the time.
****Dialogues from script :Crow_Salvation.txt****

erin		Why are there so many?
randall		Just hold on to me.
erin		It's because they're doing this on his birthday.
gonzalez		Mr. Randall. Sir. Do you think this execution will bring you a sense of closure?
randall		Leave us alone!
gonzalez		A difficult time for everyone involved.  Interesting fact. It will take about twenty-one cents of electricity to execute Alex Corvis tonight on this, his twenty-first birthday.
walsh		He didn't order that.
mercer		We found the man with the scar.
walsh		 Get it out of here.
old woman		Yes, I've come to a lot of these over the years, but this one has many unique aspects. Youth of the condemned. That's unusual. Fifty three stab wounds. Kind of a record.
gonzalez's voice		And Corvis still maintaining his innocence.
old woman		Oh, they all say that.
tommy		I don't fault him saying I lied on the stand. Facing the chair, you do what you gotta do. But I saw those two fighting that night.
walsh		You ok?
alex		What's been holding me together is the hope that maybe you do go someplace. And I'll be seeing her again soon. Only what will I say? That I was too stupid to find the guy who killed her? That he's down here laughing?
walsh		Tell her... we'll get him.
alex		We won't.
walsh		Someday he'll surface and I'll get him for both of you. I promise. I'll find the guy with the scar.
erlich		This mystery man with the scar...  ...the zigzag, whatever.
gonzalez		Some people here seem to.
dutton		People here are protesting the execution of a kid just turning twenty-one. A kid who had a tough life. No parents, no dough. Always had to fight for everything. It's a tragedy, it really is. But I don't see a single sign telling me Alex Corvis is innocent.
mercer		I was facing the hot seat, I'd want my attorney banging down the door of the Supreme Court, not playing board games. But maybe that's just me.
walsh		Your move.
mercer		No. It's time.
alex		I don't want you to watch. I don't want to give them the pleasure.
mercer		Ok. C'mon now...
minister		The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want...
warden		Alexander Frederick Corvis. Do you have any last words?
alex		I loved Lauren. I still do. I'm innocent.
mercer		Cruel, who's to say, but it sure was unusual.
guard one		Look at this. Goddamn helmet melted down.
mercer		That, my friend, is a deterrent.
mercer		Whoops.
guard one		Why do they even autopsy these guys? Cause of death is pretty fucking obvious.
randall		 I'll meet you atthe car, honey.
dutton		We all wish this had ended better. Sir.
alex		 What happened?
alex		Follow the leader.
radio guard		We've got unauthorized movement in "B five."
mercer		 Mercer. I'm on it.
mercer		 Found our intruder. It's got a beak and a death wish.
mercer		 Now who the fuck are you?
alex		It's my birthday.
mercer		Yeah, well... here's a present for you.
alex		Go ahead. Make a wish.
mercer		Taser!
alex		 Keys?
radio guard		Unauthorized movement in B five, B six, C three, four, five...
alex		I hear the pitter patter of little feet.
bullhorn voice		Do not proceed. Back slowly away from the fence.
alex		Damn.
mercer		Then who was the fucking Houdini?
alex		Happy birthday.
alex		 Look. I like what we've got going here. But I can think of lots better to do with it than fighting crime. Know what I mean?
lauren		I'm your Angel. Come here.
alex		No! I didn't...!
tommy		His knife. Corvis.
alex's voice		You lie!
alex		You lie, you lie, you lie...
dutton		What the hell was that?  Shit.
alex		I thought I'd be with you now.
lauren		 Your Shaolin style is no match for my kung fu.
alex		I'm not dead. And I'm not alive. And I'm remembering. And it hurts.
lauren		Your... flying crane style is no match for my... drunken tiger kick.
alex		I can't be alive. Not without you.
lauren		Your... mad monkey... love ... is no match for...
alex		I want to be with you forever.
lauren		Only forever?
alex		What happened to us?
erin		Dad...
randall		Honey. I just can't.
erin		Stay in the car. I'll only take a second.
randall		Erin. I know you think she's been talking to you.
erin		It's not that. Really. It's just... now that he's gone, I think it's time.
alex		It's ok. I'm not going to hurt you.
erin		Don't come near me!
alex		I was a friend of your sister's.
erin		I know her friends.
alex		That locket you're holding. You have one just like it.
erin		Yeah, no kidding.
alex		Your father gave them to both of you.
erin		And he's right over there by the way.  What did you do to your face?
alex		Someone else did it.
erin		You're a friend of the guy who killed her, aren't you? You almost sound like him.
alex		He didn't kill her.
erin		How do you know?
alex		I know everything about your sister. I'll prove it to you.
erin		 Stay away from me! Dad! Dad!
randall		Erin!
erin		Watch out!
randall		What were you yelling about?
erin		This guy said he was a friend of Lauren's. He had like paint all over his face.
randall		Are you ok?
erin		What's that supposed to mean? He was right here. He was!
hooker		Yo, Tommy. Red light special.  Even you can afford it.
tommy		 March?!
alex		Sssshhh. She's resting.
tommy		Where the fuck did you come from?
alex		Big bang, primordial ooze, divine hand of a benevolent creator?  All possibilities. Although recent events have given me doubts about the benevolent creator.
tommy		I don't know you, man.
alex		Capital case nine nine dash C one one five. Alex Corvis.  Exhibit A.
tommy		Hey. I said what I saw. Two kids arguing. A guy and a girl.
alex		You said you saw me with this. I never held it until today.
tommy		What's your damage, man? Corvis hacked up that girl like a motherfucker.
alex		One chance to tell the truth, Tommy. Who is the man with the scar? He planted this in my car.
tommy		There's no scar. Corvis made it up.
alex		Wrong. Answer.
tommy		Who are you?
tommy's wife		Tommy!
tommy		Honey. Take the baby. Get out of here now!
tommy's wife		He's all I got. Tommy and the baby. Don't take him. The baby needs a father.
alex		Your baby is crying. Go.
tommy		They showed me pictures, what he did to her. Evidence. Said all I had to do was stand up there and not my head "yes."
alex		 What did they give you?
tommy		A job. Construction. Twelve an hour.
alex		Write down their names. All of them.
tommy		You already got 'em. Right here. These cops said the needed an eyewitness, or Corvis would walk.
tracy		Oh no...
dutton		Let's hope not. License and registration please.
tracy		She's... sick.  Actually she never had Mai Tais before.
dutton		But you, you've had them.
tracy		Not tonight. Honest.
dutton		If you had a license, I bet I'd have seen it by now. How old are you? Fifteen?
tracy		Look, I'll tell you the truth. Jannie drove us and was supposed to drive us back, she has a license, but I mean... look at her.
dutton		Why don't you get out.
tracy		You want me to walk a straight line?
dutton		I want you... to bend over.
tracy		Look, can I just call a cab?
dutton		What did I say?
alex		 I want you... to bend over. Officer Dutton.
dutton		Where'd you come from? Out of the car. Now!
alex		Question. These hands?
dutton		You're dead, ditch weed.
tracy		Omigod, omigod...
alex		You're up.
dutton		That was a fucking hollow point!
alex		I guess it's true. Guns don't kill people...
dutton		Keep that thing away from me.
alex		This is not just some "thing." It's A C zero zero five.
dutton		You're the skel broke into the evidence room.
alex		A scar. On the arm. Of the man who planted this in Alex Corvis's car.
dutton		There's no scar, you freak. The Corvis kid made it up.
alex		He was innocent. You framed him. You. And Erlich. And Larkin. And Toomey. What do you think, Officer Dutton? An eye for an eye?
dutton		Bitch killed herself when she shot a cop in the leg. If she' just acted like a girl nothing would have happened.  So you're right, spooky. Happy?
alex		I'm working on it.
madden		Police!
erlich		You fuck. Don't do that.
madden		How's the month end?
erlich		Oh yes. Never been better.
madden		Where's Dutton?
erlich		Probably parked near some high school with a hardon. Fuck never showed.
madden		Anyone at all curious why?
toomey		No one saw anything, Mad.
madden		You know why Dutton's not here? Rigor mortis! He's dead.
toomey		Since when?
madden		Since last night. As usual, you're right on top of things.
larkin		It was supposed to end when Corvis died. Remember? The kid no one would miss?
erlich		Don't look at me, asshole.
larkin		Hey, I didn't kill anybody.
erlich		Back off. I mean it.
madden		Shut up! Erlich and Larkin settle down.
larkin		Who'd give a shit about Corvis at this point? Kid didn't have a friend in the world even when he was alive.
erlich		I can think of one.
gonzalez		... rumors multiply as officials refuse to confirm or deny reports of multiple, multiple stab wounds...
erin		Dad! Come in here!
randall		What is it?
erin		The cop who found the knife in Corvis's car.
gonzalez		They're moving him now, body covered. It would appear that thirty seven year old Phillip Dutton is dead in the line of duty...
cop		Out of here! Now!
gonzalez		Shocking even for these mean streets, the word "Daisy" apparently cut into his head by the perpetrator, still at large. A name. Perhaps a message...
randall		What? What is it?
erin		Lauren called me that when we were little. Daisy. No one knew but us.
randall		Honey. It's doesn't mean anything. It's not a message.
erin		That guy in the cemetery today said he knew everything about Lauren.
randall		It still doesn't mean...
erin		He said he'd prove it.
walsh		I don't know about any knife. I'm trying to forget that case.
erlich		Well someone isn't. They killed Dutton.
walsh		It wasn't me.
erlich		No shit. You couldn't get close to him. But I'm betting you know who did. Who's into Corvis? Huh?
erlich's voice		You're the only one gave a flying fuck about him when he was alive.
walsh's voice		Lauren Randall did.
erlich's voice		Hey. Bitches are crazy. Richer they are, crazier they get.
walsh		Maybe if you hadn't fried an innocent kid...
erlich		Who is it?
walsh		How about the real killer. You think of that?
erlich		If you're covering for someone, that's jail time. I got my eye on you.
walsh		Alex?
erlich		No, no...
alex		The Germans really know how to make a car, don't they?
alex		 I heard you were looking for this.
erlich		You're the guy killed Dutton.
alex		I want you to think of me as the guy who killed you.
erlich		Stop the car.
alex		Ow.
erlich		Fuck. Me.
alex		What happened to your leg there Officer? Hunting accident?
alex		In Saudi Arabia they cut off the hands of petty thieves. What price for a life? Two lives?
erlich		Not my arm! What you fucking want?
alex		I want Lauren. I want my life back. I want... to know why.
erlich		Why? Why's anything happen? It's all money, man. Money. The girl just got in the way.
alex		The scar. Which of you has it?
erlich		Nobody.
erlich		Are you out of your fucking mind? We're going to die.
alex		How can you die if you're already dead?
erlich		You're him. Corvis.
alex		I was talking about you.
elvis		My dream... comes true... right now!  EXT. OVERPASS / ABUTMENT - NIGHT  WHAM! The Corvette hits at a million mph. Crumpling, disintegrating, and hurling two bodies bouncing off the abutment.  THE CAVALRY - CRUISERS AND PLAINWRAPS Too late. A half dozen cars bearing down all lights and sirens. Screeching to a halt by what used to be a silver Porsche.  The ruptured gas tank spurting GASOLINE.  A CRUISER screeches to a halt. Both doors fly open. Toomey and Larkin step out. Toomey on his radio as Larkin looks up the embankment, catches a glimpse of...  ALEX battered but alive, jerkily unclenches his fist, still holding the Lighter, glow fading.  He tosses...  THE CIGARETTE LIGHTER arcs down onto the ex-Corvette. WIDER - BOOM!  Cops shield themselves as the Crash scene explodes in a huge FIREBALL that engulfs a cruiser stopped too close by.  IN THE TOO-CLOSE COP CAR the DRIVER rams the car into REVERSE. Tires squeal as the fireball hits and...  THE TOO-CLOSE CRUISER Engine compartment ignites, a second fireball racing backward into another Cruiser. BOOM!  Total chaos now. LARKIN focussed on Alex, seen vaguely through the flames. Moving toward him.  WITH LARKIN as he arrives at the top of the enbankment, draws his weapon. Hyperalert. Alex is gone, but he finds...  ERLICH'S BODY two hundred broken boned bagged by bruises. Larkin pulls something out of Erlich's shattered fist. It's...  "THE LIST" Dutton and Erlich crossed off. Larkin and Toomey yet to go, but the first letters of their names are all contained in a VERTICAL OVAL, "DELT" circled in red.  LARKIN, AS TOOMEY JOINS HIM They give each other an oh- shit look. Then Larkin checkes his fingertips, smeared red from...  "THE LIST" - FLIP SIDE the CROW CIPHER, rendered thick in coagulating blood. Illuminated by the flickering light of the fire below.  CUT TO:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
erin		Daisy. How did you know?
alex		I told you, I knew your sister.
erin		You killed that cop Dutton.
alex		And another one. There. Erlich. Took a wrong turn.
erin		I know who you are.  That's why you paint your face. To hide.
alex		I'm not hiding. I'm right here.
erin		You killed Lauren! You killed her!
alex		Not me. Dirty cops killed her. Dutton, Erlich...
erin		My dad was right! He said you'd ruin her life.
alex		No. Listen to me. Lauren found out something they didn't want her to know.  This.
erin		No! Why are you haunting me?
alex		Because you need to understand. And you need... to be careful.
larkin		He knows. I saw him. Fucking zombie mask.
madden		Calm down.
larkin		You calm down.
toomey		You didn't testify. You're not on the list.
madden		 Scary guy. Not only survives that crash, but takes time out for art.
secretary		Glad I'm not you.
madden		Right back at ya.
captain		Sit down.
madden		Yeah, we do.
captain		Shut up.
madden		I know.
captain		You know.
madden		I know the guy leaves a sign.
captain		No shit he leaves a sign. He's a goddamn Picasso.
madden		 Tommy Leonard. The eyewitness in the Corvis case.
captain		Some hooker phoned it in. There was a riot at his apartment yesterday.
madden		Guy dressed for Halloween?
captain		Good for you. You do know something.
secretary		Sssshhhh.
captain		You're the only one who makes it go away.
randall		 What are you doing there?
erin		I think I dropped an earring.
randall		Looks like you have them both on.
erin		Alex Corvis didn't kill Lauren. Cops did. Didn't they?
randall		It's not what you think.
erin		You killed her!
randall		No.
erin		Stay away from me! Stay away!
randall		Erin. It wasn't supposed to happen.
randall		They killed her because she found out.
erin		About you.
randall		About them. You've got to leave it alone.
erin		Don't call me that! Don't call me anything!
randall		I would never hurt you or Lauren. Never. Believe me.
erin		I don't believe you.
randall		Please. Come inside.
erin		I'm never going back in that house again. Get away.
tommy's wife		Please! Leave him alone!
tommy		I'm not making this up. He had a crow with him.
larkin		Caw, caw, that's what you're telling me.
tommy		He said I lied at his trial. It's Alex Corvis.
larkin		So we're talking... a ghost. With a pet bird.
tommy		Corvis. It's...
larkin		 Take your time. Think before you speak. Cause at this point I got to hear something besides the crap you're been spewing.
tommy		He said the whole trial was a setup. That I caused an innocent kid to die. Is that true?
tommy's wife		No, please...
walsh		Alex?
alex		Dream on.
walsh		My God. It's really you under there.
alex		Two down. Two to go.
walsh		"Down?" Wait, don't tell me.
alex		The cops from my trial. They killed Lauren. The whole thing was fixed. 
walsh		I'm thinking... that explains a lot.
alex		Lauren's father's involved. He bought the cops fancy cars, I don't know what else. It's a company called D-E-L-T. I think Lauren found out.
walsh		What do they do that they had to kill her?
alex		I was hoping you'd find out.
walsh		Yeah. I sure will.
alex		This is where it happened. Right over here.
erin		Yeah, I know.
alex		Are you ok?
erin		When Lauren was missing the police came to our house. They said they were looking for her, right?  But I know now they had her, and the reason they brought her here and knew the could blame it on you...
alex		No...
erin		... is that I sent them here. I told them she came here sometimes. With her dirtball boyfriend. That's exactly what I said.
alex		Erin. It's not your fault.
erin		 It's all my fault. Oh God. I wish I were dead.
alex		No. You don't.
erin		Yes I do, I really do.
alex		There were four of them.
erin		No...
alex's voice		Four large men. And still...
erin		I don't want to know.
alex		She ran. Them breathing down her neck...
alex's voice		... all the way from the road to this tree...
alex		This tree. Here's where it happened.
erin		I don't want to see!
alex's voice		She turned and faced them and went down kicking and punching and fighting them, fighting death as they stabbed her and stabbed her. Fifty three times.
alex		She fought for her life because life is worth living.
captain		Why wasn't the incident reported?
mercer		Nothing to report. All inmates were present and accounted for.
captain		So you pretended nothing happened.
mercer		Hey, Corvis fried. I don't really see how it could be him.
captain		No. I wouldn't expect you to.
mercer		Be forewarned. Nature takes its toll.  Bon appetit.
captain		You lost him! Now lay off the fucking doors!
madden		They botched the execution.
captain		Could say that.
madden		Christ. It was Corvis. Tommy Leonard was right.
secretary		Maybe you were a little harsh on him.
madden		Fucking crow.
captain		Sign of the dead come back to life.
madden		How about sign of a big black bird?
captain		The dead can return, given sufficient motivation. And Corvis has that.
secretary		This guy David Jenkins came back as a ghost because my uncle owed him four dollars. Followed him everywhere. Ruined his life.
madden		Time out. You really saying he's back from beyond?
captain		He's looking for something. Won't stop until he finds it.  Sometimes the best way to get rid of someone is to let them have what they want.
secretary		The man...
alex		... with the scar...
alex		... took everything I ever cared about. Left me with nothing.
erin		So you're going to kill him?
alex		Have to find him first.
erin		My father.
alex		All I knew, she was pulling away. It made me crazy.
erin		I used to be so proud of him. My big deal daddy. And now, he's just a crook. Worse even. And the weird thing is...
alex		It's what Lauren would do.
erin		I want to forget. Forget what I know. Forget myself. Forget everything.
captain		You know it doesn't work this way.
nathan		I'm out of this.
captain		Partnerships don't end like that. Friendships don't.
nathan		Our friendship ended when Lauren died.
captain		Do you believe in ghosts, Nathan? Because there's a ghost threatening us.
randall		You mean Alex.
captain		I mean Lauren.
randall		You killed my daughter.
captain		An accident, Nathan.
randall		 She was eighteen years old! There were four of them. They stabbed her fifty three times! Where's the fucking accident?! Huh?! Where is it?!
captain		I watched her grow up. Just like you. I know how her mind worked. She kept snooping around because she was worried about you. What you'd gotten yourself into. So stop blaming me. And blame yourself.
randall		 I do. Every day.
captain		Erin knows, doesn't she?
erin		Dad?! You home?
walsh		It's like a bowl of spaghetti. D-E- L-T is owned by Westwind Builders, Nathan Randall's company. But DELT in turn owns a dozen other corporations. A big mess to wade through, so I checked out Tommy Leonard.
alex		Leonard, Dutton, Erlich. They don't matter. I want the King.
walsh		We're getting there. Because in his so-called construction job, Tommy makes a daily delivery to a place called "The Hole."
alex		The strip joint?
walsh		I believe they call it a connoisseur's club. Owned by DELT.
erin		Alex!
alex		It's ok, it's ok...
erin		It's not. I can't take it.
alex		Erin. Who?
erin		I don't know. I found him lying there.
alex		Where is it? This place?
walsh		I think we should get some support?
alex		What? Call the police?
erin		What is this? Where are you going?
walsh		1315 Berkeley Street.
erin		Don't leave me. Please.
alex		It will be over soon.  Watch out for each other.
alex		Toomey and Larkin. They're expecting me.
bouncer		I need to see some I.D., pal. Circus in town?
alex		I don't think you want to do that. Lot of innocent people here...  A lot of people, anyway.
walsh		We'll be safe in my car. Nobody will recognize it. Let's move yours in back, no, down the block. Hope it's nothing fancy. There's a chop shop around the corner.
erin		You followed me here.
captain		No... Erin, I put out a bulletin on your car because... there's bad news. And I thought you should hear it from me.
erin		How?
captain		How did he kill himself?
erin		No. I mean... how did he kill himself How do you figure he killed himself--with a gun, right--when it wasn't anywhere near where you found him?
walsh		Erin. Don't.
erin		Back the fuck off! Now!
captain		He left this. Names, addresses, a note to you. These people he was involved with killed Lauren. He couldn't bear it anymore.
walsh		My God. He's right, it's all here.
erin		The note. Show it to me.
captain		It's right there, under that paper.  Here. Look.
madden		You need help?
captain		Hurry. We don't have much time.
alex		How old are you?
alex		Lauren? You were here?
larkin		 Don't move.
alex		Cheers.
alex		You dripped something!
toomey		What Scar? What fucking scar?
alex		 AAAANK. That's not how we play the game.
toomey		You're him! You're Corvis! We fried your ass. You're dead, man!
alex		Good thing in a situation like this.
toomey		Fucking Zombie.
alex		The scar.
toomey		There is no scar. I'm telling you.
lauren		Your witness list is no match for my kung fu.
alex		I'm losing you.
lauren		Your zigzag love scar is no match for...
girl		Did you have to do that?
boyfriend		How about "thank you."
girl		He's bleeding.
alex		I don't bleed.
boyfriend		And delirious. Better steer clear.
alex		Erin!
captain		I hate that picture.
alex		Where are they?
captain		Can I get you something? A glass of water? A transfusion?
alex		Where are they? Last chance.
captain		Or what? You'll bleed all over my carpet?
alex		I'm looking for my friends.
captain		See, I heard you were looking for some guy with a scar. How's that going? You find him? Yes? No?
alex		You sent them. I had no choice.
captain		Bullshit. You're a killer, that's all you are. A clown with a bird and a rising death toll. You think the world did you wrong?! You did the world wrong.
lauren		I can't say.
alex		He grabs for her. She pulls violently away.
lauren		Don't touch me!
captain		It was one thing her dad rejected you. But when she did you lost it.
alex		You're wrong.
captain		Yeah?  I see doubt oozing out your arm. Where do people go when they kill their girlfriends?
captain's voice		Take a look!
alex		I loved Lauren. I never meant to hurt her.
captain		You see it? Huh? Did you see it?
madden		You were right. Picture's worth a thousand words.
captain		Just don't believe everything you see.
madden		Doubt is a motherfucker.
captain		Give me a hand with this sack of shit.
secretary		He's cute. Was cute.
madden		So was he dead? Or alive?
captain		I've seen birds stuffed and mounted so lifelike you'd swear you saw them breathing.
madden		You two are majorly demented. Anyone ever tell you that?
secretary		Fifty three?
captain		In all the excitement I kind of lost count.  I think I'll mount him with his head up his ass.
alex		... it connects you to me...
erin		No matter what happens... you're innocent... I promise...
alex		All lies. Everything you ever showed me.
captain		You brought him back. Good. He owes you. We'll stick together, you and I.
secretary		Here pretty bird. Here birdy.
alex		Where'd they go?
secretary		 My nails.
secretary		reproving herself as she turns toward camera. She looks back under the car, but...
captain		 I know you too well. You won't do it.
erin		You don't know me at all.
captain		One in the chamber. That's all you get.
sergeant		 Holy mother of God. The devil himself.
sergeant		Stop or...! Don't jump!
captain		What the fuck?
alex's voice		The Jolt, eight amps at two to three thousand volts. It lasts a few seconds. The current surges and is turned off.
alex		I don't expect a call from the Governor. Any last words? Captain, my Captain?
captain		Yeah. Fuck you.
alex		Was that it? Well, ok.
captain		I'm not dying for your goddamn illusions. You got that? You think you and your girlfriend had some rosy future ahead of you? Bullshit. She was already bored, why do you think she was looking around? You're nothing, Corvis! Less than nothing.
erin		You are so dead.
erin		You want to get some breakfast?  What I mean is... I don't know how this works, but...
alex		Erin. I'll always be with you.
erin		Alex. Look at this.
erin's voice		In that moment when Alex went... wherever he went... when he made that choice, I knew I was making a choice too. To be alive. In the world. And it made me cry.
erin's voice		Maybe the world is a bad place but the Captain gone has to be some improvement. And that hope, that tomorrow will be better, is enough to keep me going.
erin's voice		When I think of Lauren fighting and dying, it tears me apart, but it also reassures me. That Lauren and Alex were meant for each other.
erin		I love Alex. As my sister always hoped I would. And I love Lauren. And I know, because of this, that love does not die. I'm alive. Thinking of them. Hoping that, sometimes, they're thinking of me.
****Dialogues from script :Crow__City_of_Angels.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cruel_Intentions.txt****

cruel inventions		 by Roger Kumble
sebastian		I know.
sebastian		I know.
sebastian		What do you want me to say? That I'm supposed to feel remorse because I act the way I do? The truth is I don't.
sebastian		I do.
sebastian		Let me tell you something, doctor. Chicks love a guy with a bad rap. They say they don't, but they don't mean it. They all think that they're the ones that are going to "save me." The trick is to let them think it's true.
sebastian		Same time next week?
sebastian		Why? I like spending time with you. You know, you're quite attractive for a woman your age. You have killer legs. Killer.
sebastian		Don't be insecure, Doc. You're a big help.
sebastian		It works a little.
sebastian		You do?
sebastian		Well, you don't have to get nasty about it.
sebastian		Yummy.
sebastian		Really? Care to make a wager on that?
sebastian		What, nervous I'm going to win?
rachel		Hi, mom.
rachel		He told me he loved me and I believed him.
rachel		You don't know him. I'm so stupid.
rachel		Would you cut the psycho babble bullshit, mom. There's pictures of me on the internet.
rachel		Nudie pictures, what do you think?
rachel		I don't know. He was just so charming. All he did was talk about how I had killer legs and how we wanted to photograph them. Things just got out of hand from there.  Mother!!!!
meter maid		You can't park there.
kathryn		I'll do my best.
cecile		What was that?
kathryn		I was thanking her. Vietnamese is such a beautiful language.
kathryn		 You're too kind.
kathryn		I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel temptations of peer pressure, I...  turn to God and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but it works.
cecile		What are the boys like?
kathryn		Don't worry, it's totally understandable. Most of the boys that matriculate at Oakwood are very upstanding gentleman, however there are the occasional bad apples.
sebastian		My, what an adorable shirt you're wearing.
cecile		My father just took me on a trip to Australia.
sebastian		How are things down under? Blossoming I hope.
kathryn		Cecile's attending Oakwood in the fall.
sebastian		Outstanding.
cecile		What year are you in?
sebastian		I'm what you would call a fifth year senior.
cecile		But I thought high school is only four years.
sebastian		It is, unless you're a fuck up, like myself.
kathryn		I'll call you later and we'll get together and plan your curriculum.
cecile		Thanks.  Nice meeting you.
sebastian		Ciao.
sebastian		Do you care to tell me what Mrs. White-trash and her stupid daughter are doing in my house?
kathryn		I'm just taking the poor girl under my wing.
sebastian		Lovely. How is your gold digging whore of a mother enjoying Bali? Zipping through my inheritance per usual?
kathryn		Hopefully, though she suspects that your decrepit alcoholic father is diddling the maid.
sebastian		It was fine.
kathryn		Oh, poor baby. Well you can relax. I have a mission for you.
sebastian		What?
kathryn		He didn't dump me. We had a parting of the ways.
kathryn		In any event, my feelings were hurt when I learned that he had fallen for someone else. Someone chaste... pure... innocent.
sebastian		You don't mean?
kathryn		I don't find this very funny,
sebastian		So that's what this is all about.  We'll get together and plan your curriculum.
kathryn		Keep your friends close and your enemies closer. When I get through with her, she'll be the premier Blow Job Queen of the Tri-State area and poor little Court's heart will be shattered.
sebastian		Why go through Cecile? Why not just attack Court?
kathryn		Because if there's an attack made on Court it could be traced back to me. I can't allow that to happen. Everybody loves me and I intend to keep it that way.
sebastian		I see your point... though why should I care?
kathryn		I need you to seduce our young Cecile. Introduce her to your world of decadence and debauchery.
sebastian		Sounds intriguing.
kathryn		She's quite cute you know. Young supple breasts, a tight firm ass and an uncharted pootie.
sebastian		I can't.
kathryn		Why not?
sebastian		Oh come on, Kathryn. It's too easy. "But I thought high school was only four years." I mean, please. She knows nothing. She's seen nothing. I could have her under the table at Au Bar sucking me off before the appetizer arrived. Go get one of those moron friends of yours to do it. I have a reputation to uphold.
kathryn		Oh but diddling the therapist's daughter is a challenge?
sebastian		That was just simple revenge. What I have planned requires sheer genius.
kathryn		I'm not interested in the latest dating tips from Jonathan Taylor Thomas.
kathryn		Jesus Christ, is she for real?
sebastian		Oh yes. I've read it over and over again. This baby's the real deal. Daddy's little angel. A paradigm of chastity and virtue.
kathryn		B.F.D. What do you plan to do? Fly to Kansas and woo little Dorothy.
sebastian		It just so happens we're not in Kansas anymore. Our little angel's father has accepted the new headmaster position at Oakwood. She's staying with my aunt up in Connecticut while Daddy sells his house. Can you imagine what this would do for my reputation? Screwing the new headmaster's virginal daughter before school starts? It will be my greatest victory.
kathryn		You don't stand a chance. Even this is out of your league.
sebastian		Care to make a wager on that?
kathryn		I'll think about it...
sebastian		Oh well, duty calls. Time to add another chapter to my work of art.
kathryn		Oh gee, your journal. Could you be more queer?
sebastian		Could you be more desperate to read it?
kathryn		Oh Sebastian. About that little wager of yours.
sebastian		What are the terms?
kathryn		If you lose, then that hot little Porsche of yours is mine.
sebastian		And if I win?
kathryn		I'll give you something you've been jerking off about ever since our parents got married.
sebastian		Be more specific.
kathryn		In English.  I'll fuck your brains out.
sebastian		What makes you think I'd go for that bet? That's a seventy thousand dollar car.
kathryn		Because I'm the only person you can't control and it kills you.
sebastian		No way, that car means everything to me.
kathryn		 You can put it anywhere.
sebastian		Even there?
kathryn		 It would feel so yummy.
annette		It's a beautiful home you have here Mrs. Rosemond.
aunt helen		Thank you, Annette. Chance Hill has been with my family for over sixty years. Does your family do much riding?
annette		My mother and I used to ride a lot, before she got sick.
aunt helen		I'm sorry about that.
annette		My Grandpa, used to breed horses on his farm so I would come over and ride all the time.
aunt helen		I'm familiar with a lot of breeders in the mid-west. What's his name?
annette		Ben Schwarz.
aunt helen		Schwarz. Jewish?
annette		German.
aunt helen		Doesn't ring a bell.
annette		Thank you. It's so peaceful and quiet around here.
aunt helen		Sebastian must be here.
sebastian		Pull!
aunt helen		I've missed you too. How are your parents?
sebastian		They're coming back next week. I write them everyday.
aunt helen		Sebastian, this is Annette Harrison. She's going to be staying with me for a few weeks.
sebastian		I guess that makes two of us. Welcome.
aunt helen		Anything for you, my dear.
sebastian		So what year are you going into?
annette		Junior.
sebastian		Got a boyfriend back home?
annette		No.
sebastian		Why not?
annette		I don't know. Relationships seem too distracting. I'd rather concentrate on my studies.
sebastian		You a lesbo?
annette		 No.
sebastian		Nice.
annette		Are you often this offensive on a first encounter?
sebastian		I was just being honest. You happen to have a nice ass. Sorry.
sebastian		I read your teen beat manifesto.
annette		You did?
sebastian		I must say I found it rather appalling.
annette		That's a first. Most people praised me for it.
sebastian		Most people are morons. I mean who are you to knock what you've never experienced?
annette		I wasn't knocking anything. It's just my belief that people shouldn't actually experience the act of love until they are in love and that people our age are too immature to be in touch with those emotions.
sebastian		Oh really?
annette		Take yourself. You've slept with several women. Are you happier because of it?
sebastian		How do you know I've been with several women?
annette		A friend wrote me.
sebastian		 Well maybe you should get to know the person before you judge them instead of listening to some bullshit gossip.
annette		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to upset you... but you still didn't answer the question.
sebastian		Who the hell is taking the time to write letters, spreading this shit about me?
annette		It's not really important.
sebastian		Fine, forget it. It's obvious that we're not going to be friends.
annette		Why are you being so dramatic?
sebastian		Look, I've got a lot of problems and I'm trying to deal with them and the last thing I need is people spreading shit about me.
annette		Alright, I said I was sorry.  Can we start over again? I think we've gotten off on the wrong foot.
sebastian		Sebastian Valmont.
cecile		Oh, I suck. I suck.
ronald		Relax. It's okay. Take a deep breath.
kathryn		I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. Your playing was beautiful.
cecile		Kathryn, this is Ronald Clifford. He's giving me music lessons over the summer.
ronald		Pleased to meet you.
kathryn		Likewise I'm sure.
cecile		Ronald is one of the few high school students attending Juliard. He's composing his first opera.
ronald		It's based on the life of Doctor Martin Luther King.
cecile		Doctor King is my favorite.
ronald		I guess our hour's up. Same time tomorrow?
sebastian		Unbelievable. Some fag, no offense -
blaine		- none taken -
sebastian		- wrote a letter to this chick and saying shit about me.
blaine		Any ideas who it could be?
sebastian		Blaine, if I knew who it was that person wouldn't be alive right now.
blaine		Where did you say she's from?
sebastian		Kansas. Who the hell do I know in Kansas?
blaine		Greg McConnell.
sebastian		The football stud?
blaine		He's from Kansas City. I wouldn't be surprised if he was your rat.
sebastian		It would make sense. McConnell hates me. I fingered his girlfriend at the game last year.
blaine		I don't think that bothered him.
sebastian		What do you mean?
blaine		Let's just say Greg likes tackling tight ends on and off the field.
sebastian		Are you shitting me?
blaine		I shit you not. McConnell used to sneak in my dorm room drunk every month. We'd go at it for a while, then as soon as he'd cum, he starts freaking out. You know -  It's like, for Christsakes Greg, you're gay, deal with it. The only reason why I let him continue with his charade is because he's got a mouth like a Hoover.
sebastian		Too bad he's in Kansas this summer.
blaine		Not anymore. Football team started practice last week. He's already called me to hook up.
sebastian		Really. You think you could arrange a little get together with him tonight on my behalf?
blaine		Hmmm. I do believe Bravo is showing Spartacus on television tonight.
sebastian		Outstanding.
blaine		Don't think it's not going to cost you.
sebastian		No problem. Just make sure your front door is unlocked. Shall we say the "stroke of midnight" no pun intended?
kathryn		So, rumor has it that you went on a date with Court Reynolds. I hear he's very nice.
cecile		He's alright.  He kept talking about this bulimic headcase he dumped over Fourth Of July.
kathryn		Really? Bulimic headcase.
cecile		What a loser she must be.  Anyhow, Court's invited me to the Hamptons for Labor Day Weekend.
kathryn		That's great.
cecile		You think so? I don't know. I guess I'm just scared.
kathryn		What are you scared of?
cecile		Ah duh. Boys. I've never even gone to first base with a guy. What do I do?
kathryn		Haven't you ever practiced with one of your girlfriends?
cecile		Eww. No. That's gross.
kathryn		It's not gross. How else do you think girls learn? Here turn around and face me.
cecile		Are you for real?
kathryn		Do you want to learn or not?
cecile		I guess. It still sounds gross.
kathryn		See that wasn't so bad.
cecile		It was nothing.
kathryn		Let's try it again, only this time I'm going to stick my tongue in your mouth. When I do that I want you to massage my tongue with yours. That's what first base is.
cecile		 Okay.
kathryn		Eyes closed.
cecile		That was cool.
kathryn		Maybe you should try it on your friend Ronald sometime.
cecile		What are you saying?
kathryn		Oh come on Cecile. He's crazy about you.
cecile		Is it that obvious?
kathryn		That's so romantic. Have you responded?
cecile		No.
kathryn		Well do you like him?
cecile		I don't know.
kathryn		Cecile, we just made out in the middle of Central Park. You can trust me.
cecile		 I do like him. I can't stop thinking about him.
kathryn		Listen to me. Your mother must never know. Never.
cecile		Okay.
kathryn		Did you hide the letters?
cecile		Yes. They're in this antique doll house in my room.
kathryn		I want you to make me copies of his letters and bring them to me.
cecile		Why?
kathryn		Cecile if there's one thing I'm great at it's love letters. With my help, he'll be eating out of the palm of your hand. Perhaps we can arrange a little get together for the two of you at my house.
cecile		You'd do that for me?
kathryn		Of course I would. We're friends, right?
cecile		Best friends.
annette		 Excuse me. Excuse me!
sebastian		You talking to me?
annette		Look, I know this is your house and all, but do you think you couid keep it down? I'm trying to read.
sebastian		What'cha reading?
annette		The Fountainhead.
sebastian		Great book.
annette		 You've read The Fountainhead?
sebastian		Several times. I'm not as dumb as I act, you know. When Howard Roark makes love to Dominique Francon... most romantic scene in all of literature.
annette		Romantic? He rapes her.
sebastian		That's a matter of opinion.
annette		You need help.
sebastian		Why don't you come join me for a swim and we'll discuss it.
annette		At this hour? I don't think so.
sebastian		Oh come on. Quit acting like a geriatric and get in the pool.
annette		Gee, with an invitation like that how could a girl refuse.
sebastian		Please.
annette		Give me a minute. I'll be right down.
sebastian		Thank you.
kathryn		Fuck her yet?
sebastian		I'm working on it.
kathryn		Loser.
sebastian		Blow me.
kathryn		Call me later.
sebastian		Okay.
kathryn		Ow. That hurt you stupid bitch.
kathryn		Oops.
annette		 You know it amazes me that someone as bright as you can be so horrible.
sebastian		What? Another letter from your friend?
annette		This is my favorite part.  Even more treacherous and dangerous than he is charming and fascinating. He has never taken a single step or spoken a single word without some dishonorable or criminal intention. Every young girl he has successfully pursued has regretted it.
sebastian		You know you could at least have the decency of telling me who's badmouthing me so I might have the opportunity to confront them face to face. How do you know it's not some girl who's pissed off at me for breaking up with her?
annette		I sincerely doubt it.
sebastian		Give me the fucking letter.
annette		The last thing I need is you going into my room searching for this while I'm away.
sebastian		 Is that the last thing you need? My your clever.
annette		How's the water?
sebastian		Refreshing.
annette		About what?
sebastian		About what you said today in the stable. I'm not a happy person.
annette		I never said that.
sebastian		You implied it.
annette		Look, I didn't mean to give you a hard time.
sebastian		No, it's okay. I mean I look at you with all your morals and values and well, YOU seem to be happy in your choices. I envy you. No bullshit.
annette		 Thank you.
sebastian		Seriously, you're amazing. You have everything going for you.  You're smart, you're beautiful, you're determined. You're everything I want in a girlfriend.
annette		 Shut up.
sebastian		I wasn't kidding. I'd like to take you out.
annette		Look, I'm flattered but, seriously it could never work.
sebastian		Why not?
annette		Because you act like a pig.
sebastian		Do you deny that there's an attraction between us?
annette		I don't... I don't want to answer that... look we're friends.
sebastian		You don't find me cute? Come on, look at these muscles.
annette		I'm sorry, but you're not my type.
sebastian		Fine. Friends it is. I can live with that.
annette		You're naked.
sebastian		It's my house.
annette		That's repulsive.
sebastian		What's the big deal? We're friends. Haven't you ever seen your friends naked before?
annette		Get some manners.
sebastian		Sorry, I didn't know you were peenaphobic.
sebastian		Baby?  Right on time.
greg		 Oh God... Oh God, I'm gonna cum. I'm gonna cum... I'm gonna...
sebastian		Hey Blaine, did I leave my... holy shit.
greg		Jesus!
sebastian		Greg, is that you under the covers?
greg		 Get out of here.
sebastian		Whoa!
greg		I told you to lock the door.
blaine		I thought I did.
greg		Look Valmont. This was the first time I've ever done something like this. I was --
sebastian		 -- really drunk and blah blah blah blah blah.
greg		Please don't tell anyone. This could ruin my career.
sebastian		Your career? What about your family? Can you imagine the humiliation your father's going to feel when he finds out his pride and joy is a fudge- packer.
blaine		Hey hey hey. Careful Valmont, he's not a fudge packer. Cum chugger yes but not a fudge packer.
greg		 Please. I'm begging you. I'll do anything. Let's just forget the whole thing.
sebastian		Hmmmmmmm... nah. I can't help you there. It's too good to pass up.
greg		Annette Harrison? I don't know what you're talking about.
sebastian		Come on Greg. You're the only one who knows her. The truth will save you.
greg		 I swear on my life, I never said a word to her about you.
blaine		I think he's telling the truth Valmont. Greg couldn't write a grocery list let alone a letter.
sebastian		Alright, I believe you. Stop crying. Your secret's safe with me.
blaine		Our boy just can't get enough dick.
greg		You sick son of a bitch.
sebastian		I'll leave you guys alone.  Score one for the team, Greg.
sebastian		Need a lift?
annette		No thank you.
sebastian		How are you today?
annette		Give it up.
sebastian		Oh right, last night. I guess I owe you an apology.
annette		I'm not going to speak to you till you realize that you can't intimidate me.
sebastian		I said I was sorry.
annette		It was fine.
sebastian		I wish I could say the same for myself. I was up thinking about you all night.
annette		I thought we agreed that we were going to be friends.
sebastian		Yes, well unfortunately I can't just switch the "on" button to "off." The sad fact of the matter is that you've unintentionally rubbed off on me.
annette		And that's a bad thing?
sebastian		I'm trying to better myself, but the one person who can help me is the same one pushing me away.
annette		I'm sorry, but I'm not here to be your savior.
sebastian		Well try this one on for size. I think I'm falling in love with you.
annette		You don't even know me.
sebastian		Don't you believe in love at first sight?
annette		Yes, but only when it's mutual. And this is far from mutual.
sebastian		Ouch. Do you think we could spend some time together this morning?
annette		I can't. I'm seeing a friend.
sebastian		Who?
annette		That's none of your business.
sebastian		How about tonight?
annette		I'm busy.
sebastian		Doing what?
annette		That's also none of your business.
sebastian		Tell me what to do, Annette. How can I win your heart. I'll do anything. I can't get you out of my mind.
annette		You truly want to do something to make me happy?
sebastian		Yes.
annette		And you promise to abide by it?
sebastian		Without question.
annette		Alright.  I want you to leave and go back to New York.
sebastian		What?
annette		If that's a problem, then I'll make arrangements to stay with some friends.
sebastian		I'll leave this afternoon. Happy?
annette		It's not about being happy. You and I can't -
greg		He told you he's failing in love with you? I've never known him to say those words before.
annette		Really? I thought he said it all the time.
greg		That's not his style. one thing I can say about Valmont. He always speaks the truth.
annette		Nothing.
greg		Is there a mutual feeling between you two?
annette		No. I mean. I don't know.  What else do you know about him?
greg		Not a whole lot. We take some classes together. He's got a bad rep, but it's mostly bullshit.
annette		What do you mean?
greg		Well, a lot of people are jealous cause he's loaded.
annette		 I don't know. I've been hearing some awful things about him.
greg		From who?
annette		I can't tell you. I'm sworn to secrecy.
greg		Annette, how long have we known each other?
annette		Forever.
greg		Now it's my job to look out for you. You're like a kid sister to me. Do I look like some kind of gossip queen?
annette		You promise not to say anything?
greg		On my mother's life.
annette		 Okay...
sebastian		That nosey bitch. Are you sure?
greg		Positive.
sebastian		Did you do everything I asked you to?
greg		Yes.
sebastian		You told her I never said I love you before?
greg		Yes!
sebastian		You told her that people are jealous cause I'm loaded?
greg		Yes!
sebastian		And you think she bought it?
greg		I'm pretty sure she did.
sebastian		Pretty sure or sure sure?
greg		She bought it.
sebastian		I'll be in touch.
kathryn		Enough with the music. Fuck her already.
sebastian		You would not believe what--
kathryn		Shhh.
kathryn		What's wrong with you?
sebastian		You ready for this? I've recently discovered that our good friend Mrs. Caldwell is the one who sent the letter to Annette urging her to stay away from me.
kathryn		Interesting.
sebastian		I now plan to devote all my energies to destroying the douche bag. Any luck corrupting her daughter?
kathryn		No.
sebastian		Call Cecile up and get her to come over. I'll bust that cherry in a heartbeat.
kathryn		The plot thickens. It appears that Cecile has fallen for her music teacher.
sebastian		Ooo, I'm sure Mrs. Caldwell will love that.
kathryn		Not to mention Court Reynolds. Unfortunately, Ronald's moving with the speed of a Special Olympic Bobsledder.
sebastian		What's your plan of attack?
kathryn		I rat Cecile out to mommy. Mommy goes ballistic and ends their relationship. Boo hoo.
sebastian		But who will they turn to for help?
kathryn		Cecile is planning to go away with Court next week. I'll need you to speed up her sexual awakenings.
sebastian		I'm at your service.
kathryn		Thank you. Mmmm, that feels good.
sebastian		Oh sis. You're so tense.
kathryn		I hate when things don't go my way. It makes me so horny.
sebastian		I hate it too.
kathryn		I know.
sebastian		Moving along quite well.
kathryn		Have you succeeded in your task?
sebastian		Any day now.
kathryn		Well, let me know when you do. Until then.
sebastian		Goodbye Mister Bond.
annette		No, not at all.
sebastian		Well, I was just calling to see how you're doing.
annette		I'm... I'm alright.
sebastian		How was your date?
annette		It wasn't a date. He's just a friend.
sebastian		Well, I was just calling to tell you I was thinking about you and I miss you. I'll let you go.
annette		Wait, don't hang up.
sebastian		Okay?
annette		What are you doing?
sebastian		Reading.
annette		What are you reading?
sebastian		Of Human Bondage.
annette		Somerset Maugham.
sebastian		Yeah, it's pretty relevant considering my situation.
annette		You're not gonna start that again.
sebastian		No. I'm through with my childish games when it comes to you. Hold on, that's my other line.  Rub.
annette		Sure. Have a good night.
sebastian		I will.
gretchen		Of Human Bondage. You're such a bullshit artist.
sebastian		Shut up, Gretchen. You don't even know what it is.
gretchen		Duh, it's a book.
sebastian		Do you know what it's about?
mora		Who cares. Books are for fags.
sebastian		Books are for fags. I weep for the future.
saleswoman		Here's something you might like.
kathryn		Do you carry any real fur?
saleswoman		No. All our fur is faux.
kathryn		Of course. The animals. How silly of me.
kathryn		I hope I didn't keep you from something.
kathryn		It's Cecile.
kathryn		Well... you promise you won't say anything to her. We've developed a friendship and...
kathryn		It's worse. I think there's something going on between Cecile and her music teacher.
kathryn		I know. She's so young and he's so -
kathryn		He's been sending her love letters that she hides under her doll house. I questioned whether or not to tell you, but something like this could destroy her reputation at Oakwood and I don't want to see her get hurt.
kathryn		You will be discreet about this?
saleswoman		Will that be cash or charge?
kathryn		Oh poo. I left my credit cards at home.
kathryn		Oh please. I can't have you do that.
kathryn		Thank you.
ronald		Excuse me.
ronald		Mrs. Caldwell I think you're misunderstanding something.
cecile		Where did you find those?
cecile		Those are my letters!
ronald		Got me off the streets? I live on 59th and Park.
ronald		First of all, maam, I never touched your daughter and second, I would like to think that in these times someone of your status could look beyond racial lines.
ronald		 I guess that puts me in my place. Thank you for the hospitality Mrs. Caldwell. It was a true awakening.
ronald		 Took me off the streets?
ronald		Wow. I never knew she had these kind of feelings.
sebastian		You're a lucky guy.
ronald		 She really loves me.
kathryn		What do you do? Tell her you love her.
ronald		But I can't even see her. She doesn't have her own phone, I don't even know her e-mail address.
sebastian		Ronald, e-mail's for geeks and pedophiles. Be romantic. Write her another letter.
ronald		How will I get to her?
ronald		Why are you being so good to me?
kathryn		Because we want to see Cecile happy and we know you make her happy.
sebastian		Who are you calling?
kathryn		Cecile.
sebastian		Before we go through with this, I just want you to be aware of the damage we're going to cause.
kathryn		I'm aware.
sebastian		Are you really? I mean, we've done some pretty fucked up shit in our time but this... I mean, we're destroying an innocent girl. You do realize that.
kathryn		What is that? Oh my God, it's your conscience.
sebastian		You amaze me.
kathryn		Eat me, Sebastian. It's alright for you to fuck everyone, but because I'm a girl it's wrong. Well let me tell you something, I didn't ask to be a girl. Do you think I relish the fact that I have to act like Mary Sunshine twenty four seven, so I can be considered a "laaaady." Do you think I take great delight when I hear - "Kathryn is so wonderful." "Kathryn is a model child." "Kathryn is going to make an excellent wife one day."  I'm the Marsha fucking Brady of the upper East Side and sometimes I want to kill myself for it. No, I don't enjoy being a part of the weaker sex and for that reason everyone around me is going to suffer. So there's your psychoanalysis Doctor Freud. Now are you in or are you out?
sebastian		Cecile. Now I need you to listen to me very carefully. I have a letter from Ronald that he asked me to give to you. Now I can't exactly bring it to your house, since your mother despises me so here's what we're going to do.
cecile		Finished.
sebastian		Excellent.
cecile		You think he'll like it?
sebastian		He'll love it.
cecile		What are you doing?
sebastian		Just taking your photo.
cecile		I look terrible.
sebastian		Mmmm, you're right. Those clothes don't do you justice. Why don't you take them off.
cecile		I'm getting out of here.
sebastian		I'm sorry that was out of line.
cecile		 I want to go home.
sebastian		I was just kidding.
cecile		 I want to go home.
sebastian		Okay, okay. I'll just call your mom and have her come pick you up.
cecile		My mom? Don't call my mom.
sebastian		Why not? ... Oh wow, she doesn't know you're here. In fact, you're grounded. Jesus, you could get in a shitload of trouble for this. I think I should call her anyway.
cecile		Please please please. I'll do anything. Just don't call my mom.
sebastian		Cecile, all I want to do is give you a kiss.
cecile		And then I can go home?
sebastian		Of course. I'm not a monster.
cecile		Just a kiss, right?
sebastian		I swear.
cecile		What are you doing?
sebastian		You promised to let me kiss you.
cecile		But -
sebastian		 I don't want to kiss you here. I want to kiss you there.
aunt helen		More the merrier.  Is everything alright my dear?
cecile		I'm just not feeling well.
sebastian		Afternoon ladies.
sebastian		I wasn't planning on it, but being such a lovely day, why waste it in the city. Anyone for tennis?
sebastian		 I hope she's alright.
aunt helen		I better go check on them.
sebastian		Alone again.  What are you up to today?
annette		I'm doing some volunteer work.
sebastian		Need any company?
annette		You? Volunteer? I don't think so.
sebastian		I don't know? Maybe I'd like it. I'm trying to change here. You could be supportive.
annette		 Okay.
sebastian		Babe, you're looking at the next Mother Teresa.
cecile		Please. I need you. I don't know what to do. You're the only one I can talk to.
kathryn		I'll be there in a few hours.
nurse		It's really nice when the young people help out. Most of our patients don't have any family nearby.
sebastian		Yes, you already did.
sebastian		Right after we played backgammon.
sebastian		Uh huh. You beat me three times.
sebastian		Yep. Then I fucked your daughter.
sebastian		I said, do you want some water?
sebastian		Come in.
nurse		How we doing in here?
sebastian		It's weird. I actually feel good about myself. Can we do this again next week?
annette		Oh please.
sebastian		What?
annette		"I actually feel good about myself?"
sebastian		I do.
annette		You must take me for a real idiot.
sebastian		I don't.
annette		You're going to tell me that you had a good time with the old lady.
sebastian		I did. We played three games of backgammon and...
annette		That's okay. It doesn't make you a bad person.
sebastian		Yes it does.
annette		No, it doesn't. I'm happy you're being honest with me.
sebastian		 I can't win with you.
annette		It's not about winning. You know what your problem is? You take yourself way too seriously.
sebastian		I do not.
annette		Lighten up.
sebastian		I am lighten. Can we drop this?
annette		Fine.
sebastian		What are you doing? Stop it, it's distracting.
annette		Oh dear, are you actually laughing?
sebastian		No.
annette		No?
sebastian		Stop that.
annette		There's hope for you, yet.
cecile		Who is it?
cecile		No.
kathryn		Calm down. Tell me what's wrong.
cecile		Something awful happened last night.
kathryn		What do you mean?!
cecile		I... I don't think you want to know.
kathryn		Cecile, you have to tell me.
cecile		It involves your brother. He... took advantage of me.
kathryn		Does your mother know?
cecile		If she knew, she'd kill me. It happened at your house last night.
kathryn		Why didn't you do something?
cecile		I don't know.
kathryn		So, let me get this straight. You came over to our house late last night and he forced intercourse on you.
cecile		Well... not exactly.
kathryn		He made you give him a blow job.
cecile		No.
kathryn		Well what then?
cecile		If that's what you call it.
kathryn		Cecile, I think you're going to have a hard time crying rape if that's all he did.
cecile		What do I do then?
kathryn		Well did you like it?
cecile		Well... I don't know - it was weird. At first it felt icky, then it felt kind of okay. Then, I started getting really hot and then I started shaking and then like, I don't t know... it felt like an explosion, but a good one.
kathryn		Cecile, you had an orgasm.
cecile		I did?
kathryn		I'm so proud of you. You're becoming a woman.
cecile		I am?
kathryn		Now listen. Now that you're on your way, it would be stupid of you to stop. Think of Sebastian as a tutor. Let him instruct you.
cecile		I don't love him. I love Ronald.
kathryn		So? Don't you want to make Ronald a happy pappy? Practice makes perfect, Cecile. My advice is to sleep with as many people as possible.
cecile		But that would make me a slut.  Wouldn't it?
kathryn		Cecile, everybody does it. It's just that nobody talks about it.
cecile		It's like a secret society.
kathryn		That's one way of looking at it.
cecile		Cool.
kathryn		I just had a nice chat with Cecile. I don't think she'll be giving you anymore problems.
sebastian		Yippy.
kathryn		Who are you spying on?
sebastian		Take a look for yourself.
kathryn		That her?
sebastian		Yeah.
kathryn		Jesus, she reeks of Laura Ashley.  Oh, she's crying. Wittle baby's upset by the big bad book.
sebastian		Shut up.
kathryn		What's your problem?
sebastian		Nothing.
kathryn		She's really getting to you, isn't she?
sebastian		If you must know, yes. I don't know what to do. I can't stand that holier than thou bullshit and yet, I'm completely infatuated with her.  She made me laugh.
kathryn		And that's why you're losing your bet?
sebastian		I'm not losing the bet. It's just taking longer than I expected.
kathryn		Do you mind if I take my new Porsche for a ride?
sebastian		Kathryn, the only thing you're going to be riding is me. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some work to do.
sebastian		Am I bothering you?
annette		Not at all. Have a seat.
sebastian		Don't tell me you finished The Fountainhead already?
annette		Florentino Ariza.
sebastian		My friend Monsieur Philipe is a friend of Florentino.
annette		Who's Monsieur Philipe?
sebastian		You don't know Monsieur Philipe?
annette		 Bonjour Monsieur Philipe.
sebastian		 You are very pretty. I would like to kiss you.
annette		Thank you.
sebastian		 That felt good too. I will kiss you all over.
annette		I am too.
sebastian		You know what? I don't take it back.
annette		Why are you doing this?
sebastian		Because I'm in love with you.
annette		I thought you said we were going to be friends.
sebastian		I can't handle it. I can't keep my feelings bottled up like you. Can you honestly tell me that you feel nothing for me? ... Tell me!
annette		I have feelings for you.
sebastian		Then what's wrong? I love you Annette. It's not like you have a husband, unless your married to Jesus.
annette		That's not fair.
sebastian		Why can't we be together?
annette		You really want to know?
sebastian		Yes.
annette		It's because I don't trust myself with you.  I took a vow and because of you I'm tempted to break it. Don't destroy that for me. Please.
sebastian		 Shit.
cecile		Want to join me?
sebastian		 Some other time, Cecile.
cecile		Am I suppose to be this sore?
sebastian		For the first time, yes. It'll pass.
cecile		I like it better when I'm on top.
sebastian		Cecile. This is what I like to call quiet time. This is time when we reflect on what we've done.
cecile		I'm sorry.
sebastian		You think?
cecile		Is it me?
sebastian		No, you were fine.
cecile		It's that girl, Annette.
sebastian		I'm getting out of here.
cecile		Where are you going?
cecile		Need any company?
cecile		Want a blow job?
cecile		 Prude.
annette		Come in.
sebastian		I just came to say goodbye.
annette		Where are you going?
sebastian		Back to the city. I may take off to Europe for the rest of the summer. I just can't handle it around here.
annette		I think that's for the best.
sebastian		Good for you.
annette		Sebastian, please. I don't want us to end on bad terms.
sebastian		Well, I'm afraid you don't have a choice in the matter. You make me sick. You're a hypocrite and I don't associate with hypocrites.
annette		How am I a hypocrite?
sebastian		Oh please Annette. You spend all your time preaching about waiting for love. Well here it is. Right in front of you, but you're going to turn your back on it. I'm sorry that we're not at the age where we can get married. If we were, I'd propose, but that's not going to happen. So I guess we're just fucked. I'll move on, but you... you're going to have to live with yourself knowing you've turned your back on love. And that makes you a hypocrite.
annette		 Please don't go.
sebastian		Get off me.
annette		I... I want you.
sebastian		I'm sorry, I can't.
sebastian		Shit.
kathryn		Morning!
sebastian		 Morning.
kathryn		So? How'd it go last night?
sebastian		With who?
kathryn		Well I know how it went with Cecile. She won't shut up about it. How'd it go with Mrs. Jesus?
sebastian		If your asking if I nailed her the answer is no.
kathryn		She shot you down.
sebastian		Exactly the opposite.
kathryn		So what went wrong?
sebastian		I don't know. She was lying on the bed, ready to do it, but I-- I don't, I was... I just didn't feel right about it.
kathryn		You're telling me you had the chance to fuck her and you didn't. God are you a chump.
sebastian		A momentary lapse of judgment, soon to be rectified.
kathryn		If you're heading towards her room, you won't find her.
sebastian		Where is she?
kathryn		You don't know?  She left thirty minutes ago.
sebastian		Where'd she go?
kathryn		She wouldn't say. She apologized to your aunt and told her she was going to stay with some friends.  You blew it, Sebastian. That girl has come to her senses and she will never go near you again.
sebastian		We'll see about that.
greg		Hello.
sebastian		Is she with you?
greg		Who is this?
sebastian		Sebastian, you faggot. Is she with you?
greg		No.
sebastian		Where is she?!
greg		I don't know. Why don't you leave her alone.
sebastian		McConnell, I'm gonna out your ass in two seconds if you don't tell me where she is.
greg		I told you I don't know.
sebastian		One.
greg		Alright. She's staying with some friends of her parents. The O'Sheas. She caught the train twenty minutes ago into Grand Central.
sebastian		Grand Central. You better not be fucking with me cause it's your ass on the line.
sebastian		Ooops.
annette		Hi.
sebastian		Hi.
annette		I'm fine. I have to get going to my friends' house.  Was it --
sebastian		It was perfect.
sebastian		You work way to hard. Here.  Take the day off. Merry Christmas.
sebastian		Bad time?
kathryn		Kind of.
sebastian		Well, you obviously wanted me to witness your little adventure or else you wouldn't have invited me in.
ronald		It's not what it seems like.
sebastian		Say hi to Cecile.
kathryn		 Call me.
sebastian		I am.
kathryn		You didn't?
sebastian		Oh yes.
kathryn		Tell me all the details.
sebastian		It was... Fantastic.
kathryn		Oh come on. For her first time?
sebastian		I know. That's the amazing part of it. I mean, it wasn't like Cirque du Soleil acrobatics, just standard missionary stuff, but it was... ah forget it. I'm going to sound like a Hallmark card.
kathryn		No, tell me.
sebastian		It was... it was like the emotional part outweighed the physical part.
kathryn		Wow. So you made love. Ooo, I hear the birds chirping.
sebastian		Mock, mock, mock.
kathryn		So I assume you've come here to make some arrangements.
sebastian		Some other time.
kathryn		Excuse me?
sebastian		I'm not in the mood.
kathryn		And that's why you're leaving?
sebastian		It clearly is why.
kathryn		I want to fuck.
sebastian		And I don't.
sebastian		I'll pick you up in an hour. I love you too.
kathryn		Oh my God. You're completely p-whipped.
sebastian		No, I'm not.
kathryn		P-whipped, p-whipped.
sebastian		What's wrong with you? Why are you acting this way?
kathryn		I'm sorry. It's just upsetting. You're in love with her. You don't love me anymore.
sebastian		Oh come on, Kathryn, it was just a contest.
kathryn		At first it was, but now it's become something bigger.
sebastian		Kathryn, you know I love you. I've always loved you.
kathryn		Not anymore you don't. It's obvious.
sebastian		I can't believe you're reacting this way. You're just saying this because you lost the bet.
kathryn		Is that what you think?
sebastian		That's not fair. You're taking all the fun out of it.
kathryn		Then do me a favor and get rid of her. If not for me, then do it for you. Look at yourself. You're a joke. She's turned you into jelly. What do you want to be, one of those losers who walk down the halls holding hands and smiling. People used to respect you. They feared you and now you're going to throw that all away.
kathryn		Why so nervous?
sebastian		I've never done this before.
kathryn		How have you dumped girls in the past?
sebastian		Screening calls. Any suggestions?
kathryn		I knew this guy last summer in the Hamptons. He and his girlfriend at the time were madly in love with each other. But she had this huge weight problem. His friends taunted him mercilessly about it. You know, "How do you breathe when she sits on your face?" "It's embarrassing for you to be seen with her." Finally he couldn't take it anymore and decided to dump her. She flipped and he went on the defensive. I distinctly remember him saying the same thing over and over again. "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up." "I'm completely fucked up."  Poor fatty never had a chance.
kathryn		Don't be weak.
sebastian		Hi. Is Annette at home?
annette		Hi.
sebastian		Hi.
annette		Would you like a tour?
sebastian		Sure.
annette		And this is my room.
sebastian		This isn't working out for me anymore.
annette		 Yeah, me neither.
sebastian		It's not you, it's me. I'm completely fucked up.
annette		What are you saying?
sebastian		Why aren't you understanding?
annette		I love you.
sebastian		I know. I wish I felt the same. Unfortunately, I feel nothing. I think it was just the conquest. Sorry, I'm completely fucked up.
annette		Why are you trying to hurt me?
sebastian		I'm just being honest. I just wanted to see what you were like in bed.
annette		You don't know how to love.
sebastian		You don't even know me. The fact of the matter is there is some one I love. She's smarter, prettier... you don't even compare to her. The only reason I am here is because she wants us to be exclusive.
annette		But you knew this was important to me.
sebastian		What, your virginity? Well that's over now.
annette		Please go.
sebastian		Sorry. I'm completely fucked up.
kathryn		Jesus.
kathryn		A little melodramatic, don't you think.
sebastian		I have a flair for drama.
kathryn		Mind if I ask what you're doing in my room?
sebastian		You wanted an answer to your question.
kathryn		Annette?
sebastian		Devastated beyond repair. I doubt she'll ever trust a man again.
kathryn		Well done.
sebastian		I thought we should celebrate.
kathryn		I'd love to, but unfortunately I'm expecting some company.
sebastian		Ronald?
kathryn		Not that it's any of your business but yes.
sebastian		From Ronald.
kathryn		Well done.
sebastian		Thank you. Now, where were we?
kathryn		To my triumph, of course.
sebastian		Not my choice of toast, but it's your call. To your triumph over Annette.
kathryn		Silly rabbit. My triumph isn't over her. It's over you.
sebastian		Come again?
kathryn		You were very much in love with her and you're still in love with her. But it amused me to make you ashamed of it. You gave up on the first person you ever loved because I called you names. Don't get me wrong, I'm flattered that you chose me over her, but please understand, I never loved you, Sebastian. You're just a toy. A little toy I play with. And now you've completely blown it with her. I think that's the saddest thing I've ever heard.  Cheers.
sebastian		In any event, you still owe me my reward.
kathryn		I'm sorry, but unfortunately I don't fuck losers.
sebastian		Calm down.
kathryn		Get off me!
sebastian		Will you calm down?
kathryn		Fine! Get off me!
sebastian		I'm very sorry about that. I apologize.
kathryn		I accept. Now get out.
sebastian		Get out? We had an arrangement.
kathryn		Didn't you hear what I said?
sebastian		I don't care what you said, we had an agreement. You've slept with half of the borough so don't tell me you're being choosy.
kathryn		 Get out!
sebastian		I'm giving you to the count of three to plop your ass down on the bed.
kathryn		And if I don't?
sebastian		Then I will consider it a declaration of war. One. Two... three.
kathryn		I think you have your answer.
sebastian		War it is.
sebastian		It's desperate that I talk to her.
sebastian		Well please leave a message that I called.
sebastian		Shit.
sebastian		I need to talk to Annette.
sebastian		Do you know where she is?
sebastian		Do you know when she'll be back?
sebastian		Annette! Annette!
sebastian		Fine. Could you please see that she gets this.
sebastian		It's really important.
ronald		Hello.
kathryn		 Ronald?
ronald		Yeah?
kathryn		It's Kathryn.
ronald		Hi Kathryn. Is everything okay?
kathryn		No.
ronald		What's wrong?
kathryn		It's Sebastian. He's out of his mind.
ronald		What do you mean?
kathryn		I think he's high on drugs. He hit me, then took off. I'm afraid to be alone. Please come over.
ronald		I'll be right there.
kathryn		And when I confronted him about his affair with Cecile he told me it was none of my business. Then when I said "Well what about Ronald," he said you were nothing more than a stupid... the n word and that you deserved what you got...
ronald		And this happened before you and I hooked up?
kathryn		It's been going on for a while.  Then he called me a disgrace to our family and that's when he hit me.
ronald		Racist piece of shit.
kathryn		I'd be careful if I were you. God knows what he's up to.
ronald		He doesn't scare me. I'll kick his ass in.
kathryn		Will you stay here for the night? You can leave in the morning. That's when my parents get back and --
ronald		Don't worry about it. I'll stay.
kathryn		Thanks Ronald. You're a good friend.
sebastian		What time is it?
night doorman		Eight o'clock. You got to go.
sebastian		Did she show up?
night doorman		Nope.
sebastian		Do you mind if I check upstairs?
night doorman		I can't have you do that, nor can I have you hanging around the lobby all day.
sebastian		I understand. Thanks for letting me crash here.
night doorman		Don't worry about it.
ronald		 Son of a bitch.
sebastian		 Hey Ronald.
ronald		It seems that you and I have some talking to do.
sebastian		Can we do it later. I've had a really bad night and -
ronald		Where the hell do you come off hitting women?
sebastian		What are you talking about?
ronald		Kathryn. Did you hit her?
sebastian		Kathryn? Oh Christ, she got to you too?
ronald		Did you hit her?
sebastian		Ronald, you don't know what you're talking about.
ronald		Don't know what I'm talking about? I know that you fucked Cecile.
sebastian		Ronald, I'm sorry.
ronald		You bastard!
sebastian		Fuck you.
annette		 Sebastian!
sebastian		I'm okay. I'm okay.
annette		Get an ambulance!
sebastian		Holy shit.
sebastian		I'm sorry.
sebastian		I'm okay. Everything's good.
annette		I can see why.
kathryn		I'm Kathryn.
annette		Annette Harrison.
kathryn		Have we met?
annette		I don't think so.
kathryn		Did you know Sebastian well?
annette		You might say that.
kathryn		Now I remember. Annette Harrison. Your father's the new headmaster at Oakwood.
annette		That's right.
kathryn		I'm sure you're going to love it there.
kathryn		Are you okay?
annette		I'll be fine.
kathryn		 Well, I'll leave you alone now. I just came in here to get something of mine.
annette		Thank you.
kathryn		Look, I know this sounds corny, but whenever I feel like I can't go on I...  turn to Jesus and he helps me through the problem. Call me an anachronism, but -
annette		Oh cut the shit, Kathryn.
kathryn		Excuse me?
annette		You heard me.
kathryn		Who the hell do you think you are coming into my house and saying those things to me. My brother is dead, have some respect.
annette		Kathryn, I know all about you and Sebastian.
kathryn		Sebastian was a pathological liar. I wouldn't believe a word he -
annette		I have his journal.
kathryn		You what?
annette		His journal. He sent it to me the day before he died. Everything about you is in it. The blow jobs, the hand jobs, the menages, your bout with bulimia, the affair you had with your guidance counselor and how he gave you... eww. Let's see, then there's your coke problem... You still keep it in your crucifix, don't you? It's all in there.
kathryn		You didn't show it to anybody?
annette		Actually, I was planning on running down to Kinkos. Do you think you could give me ride?
kathryn		You can't do this to me. It could ruin me.
annette		 I know.
****Dialogues from script :Crying_Game.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Cube.txt****

quentin		Hey...
quentin		Hey...
quentin		I'm sorry... It's alright, I'm not gonna hurt you.
holloway		What do you want?
quentin		I thought you were...
holloway		What?
quentin		I don't know...
quentin		STOP!
leaven		What, what?
quentin		It's ok, come here.
quentin		It's ok, calm down, evrything's gonna be fine.
holloway		What was in there?
quentin		Just give me a minute to figure things out.
hooloway		Why are you afraid of that room?
quentin		Just give me a minute I said.
quentin		How many people are in this thing? Listen! We can't go climbing around in here.
holloway		Why not?
quentin		There's traps.
holloway		What do you mean, traps?
quentin		Ubitraps. I looked into a room down there and something almost cut my
holloway		Holy God, holy, holy God!
holloway		Are you alright? Mister? Worth?
quentin		Alright?
worth		I hit my head?
holloway		Let me take a look at that. It's ok, I'm a doctor, it doesn't look bad.
quentin		What the hell are you doing?
quentin		Hey old man?
rennes		Motiondetectors integrated in the walls. Tough to spot.
leaven		Oh God, oh God, oh God.
quentin		Wait a second! Let's all just relax for a minute. Does anybody remember
holloway		Perogies! I was eating dinner. Perogies, cheese and potato. I ran out of
quentin		You... Leaven?
leaven		I... I just went to bed and then
quentin		What about you?
worth		I just woke up here.
holloway		Middle of the night. It's like Chile. They always come in the middle of the night.
leaven		Who?
holloway		Only the government can build something this ugly.
quentin		Oh, it ain't government.
holloway		Then what is it.
quentin		I don't know.
holloway		Aliens!
quentin		Please, we're spooked anough as it is. Let's rule out aliens from now on
leaven		My mom's gonna freak...
quentin		Rennes...
leaven		Just won't be there...
quentin		What do you think Rennes?
rennes		We don't solve the act, sitting still. I'm moving at this straight line,
quentin		Alright, I attend to agree.
leaven		Shouldn't we wait here? To see if anybody comes.
worth		No one is gonna come.
quentin		There's a way in here, so there's gotta be a way out. We can avoid the
holloway		Ok.
quentin		It can't be that simple.
rennes		It ain't gonna be that simple. Take a look around. Take a good long look around, see it. Coz, I got a feeling it's looking at us.
leaven		I just wanna wake up...
quentin		Leaven, we can do this. We just have to stay calm, and work together as a team. There's gotta be a lot of people looking for us on the outside. I'm a cop, alright?
leaven		You're a cop?
quentin		Yeah... I'm gonna get you out of here, I promise, but you gotta be with me on this one...
leaven		Ok.
quentin		Boot it!
rennes		Clean.
holloway		That one sounded closer.
rennes		It's mechanical. Seems to come at regular intervals.
quentin		Maybe it's the ventilationsystem?
rennes		No bets...
holloway		No kidding, I'm boiling
quentin		What is it, serial numbers?
holloway		Room numbers, they're different in each room.
holloway		There'd better not be! We have about three days without food and water before we're too weak to move.
leaven		They have to feed us, don't they?
quentin		Holloway!
holloway		Oh, we have heat, stress, physical exhaustion i.e. dehydration, headaches, dizziness, disorientation, confusement. Mental process. The body eventual begins to break down it's own tissue.
rennes		Suck on it... Keeps the saliva flowing.
quentin		What?
rennes		The air seems dry in there.
holloway		Trapped?
rennes		Molecular chemical sensor.
quentin		Why the hell didn't the boot set it off.
rennes		The boot's not alive. It detects hydrogen-sulfide extruded from the skin.
quentin		How come, you know so much about sensors, Renz?
rennes		Rennes... Not Renz! It's french!
quentin		Fine, you're french. I'm asking how...
quentin		Rennes... Sensorexpert... With the right age... I don't believe it...
quentin		This guy is The Wren...
holloway		The what?
quentin		The Wren. The bird of Attica. through the coop on six major prisons.
rennes		Seven!
holloway		You're kidding right?
leaven		You can get us out?
rennes		Maybe.
holloway		An escapeartist!
rennes		Yes, I'm Harry "fucking" Houdini. The only reason I dragged you so far, is cause I need your boots. If you're not smarting up I'm gone like that. No more talking... No more guessing. Don't even think about something which is not right in front of ya. That's the real challenge, you gotta save yourselves from yourselves.
rennes		Merde.
quentin		Get him out!
quentin		So it was electrochemical or whatever, right? And he missed it. The Wren... That's great, that's fucking great.
quentin		Alright... It's time to reassess this place.
holloway		I've been over it again and again, why would they throw innocent people in here? Are we being punished?
leaven		I've never done anything to deserve this!
quentin		Forget about all that! You can't see the big picture from in here. So don't try. Keep your head down. Keep it simple. Just look, look at what's in front of you.
worth		That's what he said.
quentin		Start with us. We got an escapeartist and a cop. There's gotta be a reason for that. You're a doctor Holloway. That gives you a function, a reason, right?
holloway		No, it just makes me go: "Why me, and not one of the ten million other doctors out there"!
quentin		Leaven. What are you?
leaven		Nothing, I jst go to school, hang out with my friends.
quentin		What else?
leaven		There is nothing else. My parents are these people I live with them... I'm boring.
holloway		I think we have to ask the big questions: What does it want? What is it
worth		One down, four to go.
quentin		Why don't you tell us what your purpose is Worth!
worth		I've wondered that myself. I'm just a guy, I work in an officebuilding, doing officebulding stuff. I wasn't actually bursting joie de vivre before I got here. Life just sucks in general.
holloway		I can't stand that attitude.
leaven		Because, he's right.
quentin		Whats your purpose Quentin?
quentin		Kids.. Three of them... I haven't made my piece yet. I'm getting out of here no matter what. That's where my strength comes from. You people find yours wherever you got it. For Christ's sake. What do you live for? Don't you have a wife or a girlfriend or something?
worth		Nope, I got a pretty nice collection of pornography
holloway		Nice, nice. I ain't got anyone either, but I'm not giving up. I'm pissed off. The came into our homes. They stripped us bare. They took my rings. They took my... my amethyst. I wanna know who's responsible.
quentin		Leaven, your glasses? You don't need them?
leaven		Only for reading.
quentin		Well, they took off her jewelry, but they must have put these on you. If nothing is random... why are they here.
quentin		Leaven, what do you read in school? Math?
holloway		What can they mean?
leaven		149?
leaven		Primenumbers. I can't believe I didn't see it before.
quentin		See what?
leaven		It seems like if any of these numbers of prime, then the room is trapped. Ok, 645... 645, that's not prime. 372... no. 649... Wait, 11 x 59, it's not prime either. So that room is safe.
quentin		Wait, wait, wait. How can you make that decision based on one primenumbertrap?
leaven		I'm not. The incinerator thing was prime: 083. The
holloway		You'd remembered all that in your head?
leaven		I have a facility for it.
quentin		Leaven, you beautiful brain... Boot it.
quentin		Ok, out of the way.
leaven		Brains before beauty.
leaven		SAFE! Primenumbers! Primenumbers! Primenumbers! Primenumbers!
leaven		How long have we been in here
quentin		Nine or ten hours.
holloway		How do you know?
quentin		5 'o clock stubble. the last thing I remember was shaving.
leaven		I guess I missed breakfeast... or lunch... or whatever
quentin		Now don't worry. I'll be home in time for dinner.
leaven		If we get out, I'l make you dinner.
quentin		You got a date.
quentin		Doing good.
holloway		I need to smoke! I could smoke a butt of a sidewalk.
quentin		Holloway... Just real yourself in a bit. Come on. Were moving along, things are looking up.
holloway		Ok. You're right, I quitted smoking years ago. I just need to be occupied.
quentin		Talk to me. Have a conversation. What kind of doctor are you anyway?
holloway		Uh, you know, the free kinda... Er, come on help me. Tell me about your rugrats.
quentin		Ok. We have three boys. Nine, seven and five.
holloway		Oh, good God. Poor woman. There's no way I'd survived that.
quentin		She didn't either................. She's not dead, we're just separated.
holloway		I'm sorry, I can't just shoot the breeze.
leaven		These numbers aren't prime.
quentin		Ok. Clear.
holloway		Excuse me, sorry.
quentin		You could try and help me out here buddy.
worth		No, I couldn't
leaven		This one is trapped too.
holloway		We have to backtrack?
quentin		Not yet.
leaven		Oh, no.
leaven		Read them to me.
holloway		What are you? His coatrack? Oh please.
quentin		It's stuck!
kazan		This room is green.
quentin		Holloway.
holloway		Hi there.
kazan		This room is green.
holloway		Yes it is.
kazan		I wanna go back to the blue room.
quentin		Is it shock or what?
holloway		I think he's mentally handicapped.
kazan		I like the blue room.
quentin		Jesus Christ!
leaven		He almost broke my neck.
holloway		Hey there, are you all alone? Do you wanna hold my hand, honey?
kazan		Butter first, then honey, Kazan. Butter first then honey.
leaven		How did he survive?
kazan		I wanna go back to the blue room.
holloway		There's lots of blue rooms. We'll find another one to you real soon.
leaven		This is just way too bizarre.
holloway		Will you just worry about your own numbers...
holloway		Go on, I'll look after him.
leaven		Safe, obviously. Since he almost fell on my head.
holloway		Shall we go for a walk? Kazan, do you wanna go for a walk?
holloway		Erm' Quentin. Let's not make him do the climbing thing right away.
quentin		Holloway!
kazan		Holloway.
holloway		Could they have taken us all the way to New Mexico?
quentin		What are you talking about Holloway?
holloway		I'm talking about: "Where do you hide something this big?" It has at
holloway		I'm sorry to shake your foundations Quentin, but you have no idea where your tax-dollars go.
quentin		Free clinic doctors?
holloway		Only the military industrial complex can afford to build something this size.
quentin		Holloway, what's the military industrial complex? Have you ever been
holloway		And how would you know from where you are.
quentin		What do you think these establishments is? It's just guys like me. Their
holloway		Is that what you think?
leaven		Clear!
holloway		Ok, you're a cop. Single bullet theory. Right on.
leaven		Gas!
quentin		Holloway! Get back here.
holloway		It's ok. I just swallowed my button.
leaven		I hate this! I hate this!
quentin		Your boy's having a conniption sitting there.
leaven		It's like crme without coffee.
worth		She needs a break.
quentin		She can do it.
worth		They don't look prime to me.
quentin		Is that your two bits worth, Worth?
worth		Of course it's what is worth.
quentin		Well?
leaven		Well, he's right. Not prime.
leaven		STOP! In front of you!!!
holloway		What is it?
quentin		SHUT UP!!!
leaven		I don't know what happened. it wasn't prime.
holloway		Quentin, hold still!
quentin		Somebody stop that rackets!
holloway		Worth.
quentin		Leave the boots.
quentin		And shut the fucking door!
quentin		I had a feeling about that fucking guy. He knew about that trap.
leaven		But these numbers aren't prime.
quentin		Then your numbersystem failed, but he knew.
holloway		Knew what? How could he know?
quentin		You're the paranoid, think about it. His only function so far is to kick us when we're down.
holloway		So, he has a bad attitude. So you think that makes him spy.
quentin		Trust me on this, it's my job to read people like an x-ray.
worth		He doesn't like red rooms.
worth		So what happened?
quentin		Pmfh, you saw what happened!
holloway		Quentin!
leaven		I guess the numbers are more complicated than I thought.
worth		Maybe they mean nothing at all.
leaven		No, it means they're more involved, the works for us up to now have just
holloway		We need to rest anyway.
quentin		Well that's handy, like if there was nothing fucking else we could do.
holloway		Are they telling you anything?
leaven		They're not Tarot-cards. Do you have any idea on how many variables I
quentin		They're like people.
leaven		Oh, gross.
holloway		Erm, not here honey, over in the corner.
holloway		Well, he's just peeing!
quentin		Jesus Christ!
leaven		Excellent! Now it totally reeks in here!
quentin		And you find this all pretty funny, don't you?
quentin		What's your fucking problem Worth? Even Holloway's holding up better than
worth		Jawohl, Kommandant!
quentin		Somebody has to taka responsibility around here.
worth		And that somebody has to be you.
quentin		Not all of us have a luxury of playing nihilists.
worth		Not all of us are conceded enough to play hero.
quentin		It's the will to live, everybody's got it Worth, even you, especially you
worth		The will to live. That's the warm, coasy feeling deep inside. Thanks
quentin		Arh, poor Worth: "Nobody loves me". If that's the chip on your shoulders,
quentin		Do it. Show us you have some backbone and jump into the sushimachine. Be
quentin		Thought so.
worth		Fuck you Quentin. I don't wanna die, I'm just being realistic. Do you
quentin		Do you think they would lay clues, if there wasn't a way out.
worth		You think we matter, we don't
quentin		Put us out of your misery so we can get on and get out of here.
worth		Oh, you're not getting out.
quentin		Yes, we are!
worth		There is no way outta here!!!
quentin		Got ya.
holloway		How... Do you know?
quentin		Answer the question Worth.
holloway		Oh, God!
quentin		Who are you?
worth		I am the poison. I designed the outer shell.
holloway		What?
worth		The shell, the sarcophagus.
leaven		You builded this thing?
worth		Not this part, the exterior. I don't know anything about the numbers or
leaven		A cube! Why didn't you tell us?
holloway		For Gods sake, Worth. You knew what it was.
worth		No
quentin		Worth! You're lying.
worth		Not first.
holloway		Who's beyond it?
worth		I don't know.
quentin		Who hired you?
worth		I didn't ask. I never even left my office. I talked on the phone to some
quentin		Bullshit! You knew from square one. Look at him, he's up to his eyeballs
holloway		No Quentin. That's how they stay hidden. You keep everyone separated so
quentin		Whose brain?
holloway		It's all the same machine right. Pentagon. Multinational coorporations.
worth		Holloway, you don't get it.
holloway		Then tell me, please, I need to know.
worth		It's maybe hard for you to understand, but there's no conspiracy. Nobody
quentin		What kind of fucking explanation is that?
worth		It's the best youre gonna get. I looked and the only explanation I can
quentin		Somebody had to say yes to this thing.
worth		What thing? Only we know what it is.
quentin		We have no idea, what it is.
worth		We know more than anybody else. I mean somebody might have known
quentin		Why put people in it?
worth		Because it's here. you have to use it or admit it's pointless.
quentin		But it is pointless!
worth		Quentin... That's my point.
holloway		What have we come to? It's so much worse than I thought.
worth		Not really, just more pathetic.
quentin		You make me sick, Worth!
worth		I make me sick too. Were both part of the system. I drew a box - you
holloway		Is that how we're ruining the world?
leaven		Daah! Have you been on glue all of your life. I felt guilty for ruining
worth		Now I feel better.
holloway		That's why you stayed with us. To confess.
worth		Still looking for someone to bust, Quentin?
holloway		Quentin, Quentin, STOP IT!
leaven		We need him.
quentin		What for?
holloway		Have you gone absolutely mad? He's the only one who knows nything about
leaven		Worth...
worth		Hi...
leaven		So there's this outer shell.
worth		Yeah.
leaven		And it's a cube, like this?
worth		I assume so.
leaven		Are there any doors?
worth		There's one door.
leaven		Where?
worth		Wherever the doorguy put it. Six guesses and it's sealed from the
leaven		What are the dimensions of the outer shell?
worth		434 feetsquare.
leaven		May I?
holloway		Come on. Side over.
worth		The inner cube cannot be flushed by the shell. There is a space.
leaven		One cube?
worth		I don't know. It makes sense.
leaven		Well, the biggest the cube then can be is... 26 rooms heigh, 26 rooms
leaven		Descartes...
leaven		Leaven, you are a genius!
quentin		What?
leaven		Cartesian co-ordinates, of course, coded Cartesian co-ordinates. They are
quentin		In English. Slower.
leaven		Bonjour, these numbers are markers, a grid-referance, like altitude and
quentin		Then where are we?
leaven		It works! Ok, all I have to do now is add the numbers together. The X
quentin		Alright, let's go.
worth		Just out of curuiosity. I mean don't hit me again or anything. But what
quentin		Maybe we can get the door open.
worth		Wrong.
holloway		What we need to do is figure out how we get around the traps.
quentin		I'm dealing with that Holloway. I'm looking for practical solutions here.
holloway		Well, you haven't found any yet!
quentin		We cut the risk with the numbers and the boot. Worth will go in first.
holloway		No he won't Quentin, we take turns!
quentin		Relax.
quentin		Is there room for two in there?
qientin		What's the matter?
quentin		What about them?
leaven		Well, they don't make sense. Assuming the cube is 26 rooms across, there
leaven		No, not outside the cube.
quentin		I guess that means we're not having dinner.
kazan		Trap, trap, trap. TRAP!
kazan		TRAP!
quentin		 It's soundactivated. BOOOH!
quentin		Lovely.
leaven		How come the sound of the door-opening didn't set it off?
quentin		Must be reat to ignore it.
holloway		So that's it. The edge is surrounded by traps.
leaven		Well, I guess we have to backtrack and try somewhere else.
quentin		Who knows how many detours we'll have to take. I say we cross the bitch.
holloway		Right.
quentin		How many boots do we have left Holloway?
quentin		Get it off him. We know how it works, we just have to be quiet.
worth		Pretty fucking quiet.
quentin		I'm glad you're on sight Worth, because you're up.
quentin		And he's not coming.
holloway		Of course he is.
quentin		No way!
holloway		You're not leaving him behind.
quentin		He's unpredictable. When we get to the edge we can come back for him, but
holloway		Shame on you. Will you look at yourselves. What have you turned into?
leaven		We'll come back for him.
holloway		That's a lie and you know it.
worth		He'll be quiet.
kazan		Hah!
quentin		You fucking fuck!
holloway		That's enough!
quentin		He's a trap!
holloway		Let him go right now!
quentin		Law of the jungle Holloway. He's a danger in the pack!
holloway		Let him go you nazi!
quentin		What did you call me?
holloway		Quentin! You let that innocent boy go.
quentin		You listen to me woman. Every day I mop up after your bleeding heart. The
leaven		How dare you say that to her? You don't know her Quentin. None ouf us
quentin		Oh, I do.
leaven		No you don't!
holloway		No wonder your wife left you. All that bottled-up anger. And a thing for
holloway		God help you Quentin. Did you smack your kids around too?
leaven		Is anybody besides me interested in what's on the other side of that
quentin		Open it.
worth		Door number six, not door number one, door number two.
quentin		Open the fucking thing.
holloway		 Sunshine.
kazan		Nighttime.
worth		My old friend the shell.
worth		It's there. Morning!
quentin		Hang on to me.
quentin		Can't see shit. Nothing to hang on to.
quentin		We have to try something. We gotta see if the door's over there. Someone
leaven		Yeah, you're gonna go. You weigh like 500 pounds it'll snap in two
quentin		Forget it.
holloway		I'll go.
quentin		I'm going Holloway.
holloway		She's right Quentin, you're too heavy. I'm the lightest after Leaven.
holloway		How long did you know people we're put in here.
worth		A couple of months.
holloway		That's not long , if you consider your whole life.
worth		I am.
holloway		You opened my eyes Worth, thats something.
worth		David.
holloway		Helen.
worth		And such a Helen.
quentin		That's as far as you go.
holloway		There's nothing down here. Hold tight. I'll try swinging over there.
worth		Hurry, you're getting heavy.
holloway		What the hell is going on?
quentin		Get up here now!
worth		Quentin...
leaven		Do you got her?
worth		What's going on?
leaven		Is she Ok?
quentin		She... slipped.
kazan		Holloway.
worth		Sssh! Come on Kazan. Kazan will you please stop doing that!
quentin		Leaven, you gotta be strong sweetheart.
leaven		Don't even talk to me.
quentin		We gotta get down to the bottom. It'll be easier to get on to shell from
leaven		I can't think anymore.
quentin		Sure you can. It's your gift.
leaven		It's not a gift, it's just a brain.
worth		Let her sleep for a while. We haven't slept for fucking hours.
quentin		Ok, one hour.
worth		How the fuck are you gonna know how long an hour is?
quentin		An hour is as long as I say.
leaven		What are you doing?
quentin		We have to make it down to the bottom. There'll be quiet there and you
leaven		Do you just wanna leave them?
quentin		They're traps! We are the key. I get us down there. You think us out.
leaven		Quentin...
quentin		We fit like numbers. A man and a woman. Two halves of the equation. I
quentin		I'll slip you on the lock.
quentin		Leaven... It's time to go down.
quentin		Get away from her. Leaven, they're fucking spy's. Him, the retard.
leaven		You dropped her.
worth		Just go Quentin
leaven		Give us the boot, you pig!
quentin		You don't want the boot.
quentin		You wanna come with us Worth? Down the hatch.
quentin		What the fuck's with him?
quentin		How does he...?
worth		 It's The Wren, the old Renster.
quentin		How could...?
worth		 We've been going in circles
quentin		That can't be.
quentin		Where are we?
leaven		I don't know.
quentin		Where are we???
leaven		You figure it out! You haven't done anything. All you do is freak out!
quentin		You were right Worth. There is no outta here.
quentin		 Get away from me.
worth		Wasn't Rennes killed in that room?
worth		How come there's nothing out there.
quentin		You see an edge.
worth		We were not at the edge before. Where's the room that killed Rennes?
quentin		Fuck off!
worth		Oh, that was good.
quentin		What difference does it make? We're dead anyways.
worth		HEY! Listen to what I'm saying! There was a room there before! We haven't
leaven		Of course.
quentin		The rooms?
worth		That explains the thunder, the shaking. We've been shifting the whole
leaven		It's the only logical explanation. I'm such an idiot.
worth		What are you on to Leaven.
leaven		Give me a minute. The numbers are markers point on a map, right?
worth		Right.
leaven		And how do you map a point that keeps moving?
worth		Permutations.
quentin		Permu... what?
leaven		Permutations. A list of all the co-ordinates the room passes through.
quentin		The numbers tell you all that?
leaven		I don't know. I've only been looking at one point on the map, which is
quentin		Ok, so it's moving. How do we get out?
quentin		Where?
leaven		Stay away from me.
worth		Back off, Quentin!
quentin		I just wanna know, don't you wanna know?
leaven		You remember that room we passed through before, the one with the
worth		What about it?
leaven		That co-ordinate placed the room outside the cube.
worth		A bridge?
leaven		Right, but only in it's original position.
quentin		What are you talking about?
leaven		Look, the room starts off as a bridge, then it moves it's way through the
worth		So the bridge is just a bridge...
leaven		... in a short period of time. This thing is like a giant
worth		Well the size of us... It must take days to complete a full cycle.
quentin		So when does it open?
leaven		Don't! We find it's original co-ordinates by adding the numbers, the
quentin		And what does that mean.
leaven		You suck in math? Ok, I need the roomnumbers around as a referencepoint.
leaven		Yes!
worth		Do we have time?
leaven		Maybe...
quentin		Then let's go.
worth		Can you work out the traps in the system?
quentin		Fuck the traps, let's get to the bridge.
worth		Well you threw out our last boot, you fucking idiot.
leaven		Technically I can identify the traps.
worth		Technically?
leaven		First I thought they were identified by primenumbers, but they're not.
quentin		Ok, so?
worth		Can you calculate that?
leaven		The numbers are huge.
quentin		But you can, right? You can?
leaven		I have to calculate to numbers of factors in each set. Maybe if I had a
quentin		You don't need a computer.
leaven		Yes, I do.
quentin		Figure it out!
leaven		Yes, I do!
quentin		I'm not dying in a fucking ratmaze.
leaven		Look! No one in the whole world could do it mentally! Look at the number:
kazan		Two... Astronomical.
worth		What did you say?
kazan		Astronomical.
worth		Before that...
kazan		Factors...
leaven		How many factors Kazan? Of 567?
kazan		Two...
quentin		What are you fucking kidding?
leaven		How many factors does 30 have?
kazan		Three...
leaven		And seven?
kazan		One... Gumdrop.
leaven		I don't have any gumdrops.
kazan		Gumdrop!
worth		Kazan, I'll give you a whole box of gumdrops for each answer.
kazan		Gumdrops come in bags.
worth		You want 'em in bags, you got 'em in bags.
kazan		I don't like the red ones.
kazan		Two...
kazan		Two...
leaven		He's giving us the factors.
kazan		Astronomical.
quentin		You're telling me Tell-A-Son boy is a genius.
leaven		By those numbers the room should be safe.
quentin		There's only one way to find out.
leaven		Don't!
worth		Safe.
quentin		Kazan, my man!
quentin		What's the numbers boy? Right here! Look here! Make him do it.
leaven		Kazan, we gonna do some numbers, ok? We like to do numbers, right?
kazan		Primenumbers.
leaven		That's right. Can you tell me the factors of 656?
kazan		Two...
kazan		Two...
kazan		Three...
leaven		Clear.
quentin		Move. Come on let's go. You too Worth. Move your scuddy ass Worth, I'm
leaven		Oh, Jesus!
worth		Go! Hurry!
quentin		Leaven.
quentin		You fuckheads, you're dead!
kazan		Two...
leaven		Clear...
kazan		One..
leaven		Trapped!
worth		Check the floor.
leaven		Is he dead?
worth		Not quite.
quentin		Not even close, Worth! When I'm finish I'll throw you in a fucking trap
quentin		Where is he? Come here! I said come here riiight..........
worth		Got ya. That way.
kazan		Two...
leaven		Clear.
kazan		Four...
leaven		Clear.
worth		Oh.
worth		I guess that proves out theory. The numbers.
kazan		Four, two, three.
leaven		Clear.
leaven		Listen. He hasn't moved far.
worth		I'm gonna find him. What do you think?
leaven		You don't have a lot of lives left.
worth		Kazan?
kazan		I didn't move.
worth		Yeah, good. Erm, you have to climb up here, ok?
kazan		I don't like that.
worth		Five bags of gumdrops?
kazan		27 bags total.
worth		27 bags, deal.
leaven		Come here Worth, this room's next move takes it to the bridge.
worth		We're coming.
leaven		Over here. Move it. We don't have much time come on.
leaven		Worth...
worth		Eaoh, it' better be it.
leaven		It should be.
worth		Where?
worth		Ooh, arh.
leaven		Give me a minute. Be patient. So guess what, this was the room we started
worth		The bridge.
kazan		Red...
leaven		Kazan.
kazan		38079
leaven		Clear!!!
leaven		Worth???
worth		Go ahead.
leaven		What are you doing. You can't quit now. It's not your fault!!!
worth		I have nothing to live for out there.
leaven		Was is out there.
worth		Boundless human stupidity.
leaven		I can live with that.
worth		Nooo!
worth		Kazan get out to the door!
quentin		Red, Kazan.
****Dialogues from script :Curious_Case_of_Benjamin_Button.txt****

caroline		The wind, Mother... They say a hurricane is on its way... You've been asleep... I was waiting to see you...
daisy		If it wasn't for hurricanes we wouldn't have a hurricane season.
caroline		I've forgotten what the weather can be like here. I've lived with four seasons so many years now.
dorothy baker		I saw on the news they're predicting trouble...
daisy		1928 they stacked people like firewood to close a hole in a levee.
caroline		 Can I do anything for you, Mother? Make anything easier?
daisy		Hmmm. There is nothing to do, Caroline. This is what it is... I'm finding it harder to keep my eyes open... my mouth all filled with cotton...
dorothy baker		There, there, Miss Daisy... you'll scratch yourself to ribbons...  ...prob'ly today.
caroline		Do you want more medication, Mother? The doctor said you can have all you want.
daisy		Curious.   What comes next...
dorothy baker		The pain's coming more steadily... Her breathing will falter soon... No need for her to suffer..
daisy		They built that train station in 1918. Your father was there the day it opened... He said a tuba band was playing...Oom-pah-pah...
daisy		Oom-pah-pah, oom-pah-pah...The finest clockmaker in all of the South built that clock...
blanche devereux		"I am sorry to inform you that your son was killed fighting for his country, at the battle of the Marne. In the death of Sgt. Martin Gateau I lose one of my most trusted men. 
monsieur gateau		I made it this way... so that perhaps, the boys who were lost in the war might stand and go home again...
monsieur gateau		Perhaps, my own son might come home again...
monsieur gateau		I'm sorry if I offended anybody. I hope you enjoy my clock.
daisy		He just rowed...rowed...away...
dorothy baker		Do you mind if I make myself a call? I've got somebody watching my little boy.
caroline		No, please go call...
daisy		Oh honey, you could never disappoint me.
caroline		I wished I had more to show for myself. I know you would have liked to have had grandchildren. 
daisy		What's normal?     A hat full of sand.
caroline		What?
daisy		 I need my brown suitcase... The envelope...
caroline		An envelope?
daisy		I tried to read it a hundred different times... but I couldn't bring myself...
caroline		What do you mean?
daisy		Read it to me.
caroline		It's dated "April 4, 1985." It says, "New Orleans."  All I have is my story... I'm writing it now while I still remember it..."
thomas button		 Why are you here?
the doctor		Thomas, I'm afraid she's not going to survive...
thomas button		That's enough...! All of you!
maid		Mr. Button...!
thomas		I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
policeman		What are you doing there!?
queenie		I guess not...
tizzy		You look very handsome tonight, Ms. Queenie, handsome as I ever seen you... The green matches your eyes...
tizzy		Hambert's back in town... came home legless, but he home... we're gonna throw a party for him... help get himself situated...  I know you was sweet on him one time...
queenie		Sweeter than I shoulda been... Lost his legs you say? "You never know what's comin' for you."
old woman		Ms. Simone messed herself...
queenie		She got to stop doing that, or it's diapers for her... I'll be right there, Mrs. Jameson...
tizzy		Awful nice, Ms. Queenie... Come out back for a moment... take your mind away from things...
queenie		 Just a moment's time...
tizzy		What in God's name...?!!
queenie		What is that?     A fish crawl out of the river...?
tizzy		Look like a milk wagon run over it... three times... and back...
queenie		It's for sure nobody wanted to keep it...
queenie		Hold your water...  Go see to them.
queenie		Jane Childress start her a bath... and mind your business, Mrs. Duprey... You'll be messing yourself soon enough too!
queenie		I'll be right with you, Mrs. Hollister...
queenie		Mercy, I'll be right there.
queenie		They're right here, Mrs. Hollister, right 'round your pretty white neck...  Come on now...
doctor rose		... He's nearly blind from cataracts... I'm not sure he can hear... His bones indicate severe arthritis... His skin has lost all elasticity... His hands and feet are ossified... He has all the deterioration, the infirmities, not of a newborn, but of a man well in his eighties on the way to his grave...
queenie		You mean to say he's dying?
doctor rose		Of old age. His body is failing him before his life's begun.
queenie		 The poor child got the worse of it... came out white...
doctor rose		There are places for 'unwanted' babies like these, Queenie... There's no room for another mouth to feed here... The Nolan Foundation, despite their good intentions, thinks this place is a large nuisance as it is... A baby here --
queenie		 You said he don't have long.
doctor rose		Queenie -- some creatures aren't meant to survive.
queenie		He is a miracle, that's for certain... just not the kind of miracle one hopes to see...
queenie		You all listen...
queenie		He's prematurely old... Doctor Rose said he don't have much time on this earth...
a man		Join the club.
tizzy		Hambert sends his remembrance to you.
queenie		 Mr. Weathers. Stay with me tonight.
caroline		Is any of this true?
daisy		You have such a lovely voice.
caroline		Some pages seem to be torn out here...
daisy		That clock... Just kept going, year after year after year...
queenie		Stop bangin' that fork...  It's for eating, not for playin' with... And use your napkin, please Mr. Benjamin...
benjamin button		What's there?
queenie		Benjamin! That's dangerous... Come back here...!
benjamin button		Somedays I feel like I'm different from the day before...
queenie		Everybody feels different about themselves one way or another. We're all goin' the same way, just taking different roads to get there... You're on your own road, Benjamin.
benjamin button		How much longer do I have to live, Mother?
queenie		Just be thankful you got what you're given. You already here longer than you supposed to be.
queenie		We're gonna put some life into these old sticks for you... get you walkin'...
tizzy		How we doin'?    What's that say there?
benjamin		Bis...
tizzy		Biscuits... and...
benjamin		Graby...
tizzy		Think. That's a 'v' not a 'b.' Say it.
benjamin		Gravy.
tizzy		Now you talkin'!
benjamin		Four...
tizzy		How many parts flour?
benjamin		Two...
tizzy		How much is four and two?
benjamin		Six.
tizzy		You're a regular addin' machine...
benjamin		Tomato, brown sugar, salt, myasses...
tizzy		"Molasses"...
a man		When's dessert...?
tizzy		When it's served. Now sit your wrinkly butt back down, Mr. Lee.
the preacher		What can I do for you, Sister?
preacher		Lord, if you could see clear to forgive this woman her sins so she can bear the fruit of the womb.  Out damnable affliction!
the preacher		 And what's this old man's irrediction?
queenie		He's got the devil on his back... trying to ride him into the grave before his time...
the preacher		 How old are you?
benjamin		I'm seven, but I look a lot older.
preacher		 God bless you.    He's seven!
the preacher		This is a man who has optimism in his heart! Belief in his soul! We are all children in the eyes of God. Now we are going to get you out of that chair... we're gonna have you walk...  In the name of God's glory, rise up!
queenie		Let the Lord carry you... ...
the preacher		Praise be to the Lord on the highest...!
ngunda oti		... My first wife and I are captured by neighbor tribe, cannibals...
ngunda oti		My wife, she can't swim, so she eaten.
tizzy		 That's Mr. Oti... He's an acquaintance of an acquaintance of mine...he'll be stayin' with us in the staff quarters for awhile...
ngunda oti		 It was bad luck to be married to Mr. Oti.
ngunda oti		The Big White Man brings us to St. Louis, where they make our village at the 1904 World's Fair... They have us livin' in these little huts like we're livin' in Africa... people behind bars staring at us... we told not to look at them... to just go about our normal lives... what the hell they talkin' about... ?
ngunda oti		I hear you not so old as you looking. You just foolin' everybody. What happen, you get Madjembe?
benjamin		What's a madjembe?
ngunda oti		Worms.
benjamin		I don't think so. This is just how I am.
ngunda oti		You want to get a cold root beer?
benjamin		 It's dangerous.
ngunda oti		Who said that?
ngunda oti		Hurry...
ngunda oti		Then I am in the monkey house at "Philadelphia Zoological Park." Three thousand people show up my first day...
benjamin		What's it like living in a cage?
ngunda oti		It stinks. The monkeys, they do some tricks... I throw spear... I wrestle with Kowali, she is orangutan... They have me file my teeth like a cannibal...
benjamin		Why didn't you go back home?
ngunda oti		War between English and Dutch people had broken up kingdom.
benjamin		What did you do?
ngunda oti		I leave zoo. Go here. Go there. Everything okay. But I alone.
benjamin		You were all alone?
ngunda oti		You'll see little man, plenty times you be alone. You different like us, it's gonna be that way. But I tell you a little secret I find out. We know we alone. Fat people, skinny people, tall people, white people... they just as alone as us... But they scared shitless...
the woman		There's my little man. You ready, sugar.
ngunda oti		 Filamena, Mr. Benjamin.
filamena gilea		 It's a pleasure to meet you, Sir.
ngunda oti		 You can find your own way home, can't you?
queenie		Like to scare the Holy Hell out of me! I was so worried about you...you take my breath away...
dorothy baker		How's her breathing... ?
caroline		Shallow.
dorothy baker		 They're sayin' it's gonna reach us late in the day... I'm goin' to get my baby and take him to my sister's... they said there's nothin' to worry about here in the hospital...Nurses are right here if you need them...I'll see you in about an hour if that'll be okay...
caroline		No, that's fine...please...
daisy		Was there just company?
caroline		Dorothy had to go home...
daisy		Caroline...
caroline		"On Sundays the families would come and visit...
benjamin		Benjamin is just fine...                                 * *
ngunda oti		We pray to Bembe... the creator of all living things... she retired after all that work...
daisy		 Did you know turkeys aren't really birds...?
benjamin		Why do you say that?
daisy		They're in the pheasant family. They can hardly fly. It's sad don't you think? A bird, that can't fly.
ngunda oti		I like birds that can't fly. They're easy to eat.
queenie		 I have something to tell you all...
benjamin		What does she mean "answered her prayers?"
daisy		She's going to have a baby, silly. That's what my mother said when I was going to have a little brother. He didn't live long though. He didn't breathe right...
daisy		 Are you sleeping?
benjamin		 Where are we going?
daisy		Under here...
benjamin		I'm not supposed to use matches...
daisy		Don't be chicken...
benjamin		I'm younger than I look.
daisy		 You don't seem like an old person... like my grandma... Are you sick?
benjamin		 But I fooled them so far.
daisy		You are different than anybody I have ever met. Can I?
grandma fuller		What are you doing under there? Who's idea was this candle?
queenie		You are a different child... a man child. People aren't going to understand how different you are.
benjamin		 What's wrong with me, Mother?
queenie		God hasn't said yet. Now, back to bed and behave yourself.
ngunda oti		 You get used to it...
caroline		Are you alright, Mother?
daisy		 Go on.
caroline		He crossed out something... and then he's written... "When..."
ngunda oti		I come to say goodbye. I'm going away.
benjamin		Going away?   Where?
ngunda oti		I don't figure that out yet. I will send you a postcard when I get to there.
benjamin		What about your friend?   The tall lady?
ngunda oti		We're not friends anymore. That's what happens with tall people.
benjamin		Goodbye...
the woman		I'm moving in today.
queenie		Welcome... we was expecting you... 
the woman		He's as old as the hills. Blind too. Can hardly get around, he won't be a bother much longer.
queenie		I guess as long as he stays out from underfoot.
benjamin		I'm Benjamin...
the woman		It isn't how well you play, it's how you feel about what you're playing.  Try this.
daisy		Oh, darlin', the pain...
caroline		I'll get the nurse...
the nurse		You're not feeling too good?
caroline		I haven't spent as much time as I would have like with her the last few years.
the woman		You busy?
caroline		 The next page says...
a man		 He never pays... He always says he'll have to owe it to you...
benjamin		I do...!
benjamin		 I do. I think.
benjamin		Yes, Captain!
benjamin		Right away, sir...!
benjamin		I haven't found out yet.
benjamin		Not as old as I look.
benjamin		It's a short story...
benjamin		 I do every morning.
benjamin		 I guess.
benjamin		Never.
benjamin		Not that I know of.
benjamin		Never.
benjamin		I never met my father.
benjamin		You didn't want to spend the rest of your life on a tugboat.
benjamin		 But you're a tugboat captain.
the woman		Captain Mike, we're ready for you and your friend...
benjamin		 I thought it was $2 for a day's work...
the girl		How are you tonight, Grandpa?
the girl		Clean yourself up...
benjamin		Is that any better?
the girl		Let's go... Time's a wastin'...
benjamin		Ohhh...!
the girl		 Come by anytime...
benjamin		Again?
the girl		Again?
benjamin		Again?
the girl		Again?
the girl		What are you, Dick Tracy or something? I've got to rest...
benjamin		 Again?
benjamin		Thank you...
the girl		 No, thank you...
benjamin		You'll be here tomorrow?
the girl		Every night, but Sunday...
thomas button		It's awful wet out. Can I offer you a ride somewhere...?
benjamin		That's very kind of you, Sir.
thomas button		My name is Thomas, Thomas Button.
benjamin		I'm Benjamin.
thomas button		 Benjamin... Yes, Benjamin... It's a pleasure to know you.
the waiter		What will it be sir?
benjamin		I'll have whatever he's having.
thomas button		A Sazerac for both of us...with whiskey instead of brandy...
benjamin		It's a night for firsts...
thomas button		How is that?
benjamin		I've never been to a whore house either.
thomas button		It's an... experience...
benjamin		It certainly is.  I'm not very experienced about a lot of things.
thomas button		That isn't a bad thing.
benjamin		There's a first time for everything.
thomas button		True enough. I don't mean to be rude... but your hands seem awful bent... It must be quite painful?
benjamin		I don't really know what I have. I have some form of a disease. I have a lot of catching up to do.
thomas button		What kind of a disease?
benjamin		I was born old.
thomas button		I'm sorry.
benjamin		 No need to be. Nothing wrong with old age.
thomas button		I'm sorry about your disease.
benjamin		My mother says we're all born with something...
thomas button		Your mother?
benjamin		I'm adopted.
thomas button		... My wife passed away many years ago...
benjamin		 I'm very sorry.
thomas button		She died in childbirth.
benjamin		 To mothers and fathers...
thomas button		Buttons. "Button's Buttons." There isn't a button we don't make. Our biggest competition is B.F. Goodrich and his infernal zippers...
the waiter		Would you gentlemen like another?
thomas button		One more Benjamin?
benjamin		If you'll let me pay for it, Mr. Button...
thomas button		What kind of work do you do?
benjamin		 I'm a tugboat man.
thomas button		I enjoyed talking to you...
benjamin		I enjoyed drinking with you...
thomas button		 Benjamin...
benjamin		 Anytime.
thomas button		 Goodnight, Benjamin.
benjamin		 Absolutely... Mr. Button...
benjamin		I listened to some music.... I --
benjamin		 Do you want to see something?   We have to keep it secret.
benjamin		Ssssh...  Can you swim?
daisy		I can do anything you can do...
benjamin		Put this on...
daisy		What's wrong with him?
benjamin		I think he has mejembe.  Captain Mike... could you take us out?
benjamin		Sunday.
benjamin		You're drunk every night.
benjamin		A close friend... I wanted to show her the River.
benjamin		What does it take to build something like that?
daisy		Imagine all the places they're going to see...
caroline		Did you say something, Mother?
daisy		Look at that... time just seeped out of me...
caroline		What?
daisy		Somebody will come and mop it up and that will be the end...
caroline		Do you want me to go on reading?
the woman		I don't know how it's possible, you seem to have more hair...
benjamin		 What if   I was to tell you I wasn't getting   older -- I was getting younger   than everybody else...
the woman		Well, I'd feel very sorry for you... to have to see everybody you love, die before you.
the woman		Benjamin... We're meant to lose the people we love. How else would we know how important they are to us.
benjamin		Would you like to go for a walk?
tizzy		 Good luck, son.
benjamin		Goodbye, Mother...
daisy		Benjamin... Benjamin...
benjamin		To sea.    I'll send you a postcard.
daisy		From everywhere. Write me a postcard from everywhere...
caroline		 I think I should find out what's going on...
daisy		 There's a box of them... in a velvet bag...
caroline		Is this what you're looking for?
daisy		Looking for?
caroline		You said you wanted this?
daisy		Of course.
caroline		 "I had gone.."
john grimm		You know one in every eight boats never returns, all hands lost at sea.
daisy		I wrote him constantly... told him everything I was doing...
daisy		Oh. Then he wrote me... "I've met somebody... and I've fallen in love..."
a man		Places everybody... Once again...
daisy		"...I've met somebody...and I've fallen in love..." My, that was over...  ...sixty years ago.
caroline		Did you love him, mother?
daisy		What can a girl know about love?
caroline		 "...We were working in Murmansk, Russia..."
benjamin		Well Captain, you do drink a lot...
elizabeth abbott		What are you looking at?
elizabeth abbott		I broke the heel off of one of my shoes...I don't usually walk around in my bare feet...
benjamin		I'm sorry... I can't sleep...
elizabeth abbott		Some honey, thank you.
benjamin		Do you like flies with your tea?
elizabeth abbott		You must let it steep for a minute...
benjamin		Steep?
elizabeth abbott		Sit. There's a proper way to make tea.
benjamin		Where I'm from, they just want it to be hot.
elizabeth abbott		You're a seaman? I don't mean to be rude...but aren't you rather old to be working on a boat?
benjamin		There's no age limit... as long as you can do the work...
elizabeth abbott		You have trouble sleeping?
benjamin		I didn't know I did... I usually sleep like a baby. Something kept me up.
elizabeth abbott		I never sleep... Well, rarely anyway...
benjamin		Did he?
elizabeth abbott		Did he what?
benjamin		Die in his sleep?
elizabeth abbott		He died sitting in his favorite chair listening to his favorite program on the radio.
benjamin		 He must have known something.
elizabeth abbott		My husband's the British Trade Minister. We've been here fourteen months... We were supposed to be going to Peking... but it just never did work out. It never does seem to work out. Have you been to the Far East?
benjamin		I haven't really been anywhere. I mean outside different harbors.
elizabeth abbott		Where are you from?
benjamin		New Orleans, Louisiana.
elizabeth abbott		 I didn't know there was another one.
benjamin		 The Mississippi River.
elizabeth abbott		I can tell you what bars look like in places all over the world...
elizabeth abbott		Thank you for the tea...
elizabeth abbott		I may have given you the wrong impression.
benjamin		The wrong impression?
elizabeth abbott		You must think I don't love my husband.
benjamin		Why do you say that?
elizabeth abbott		Married women don't usually sit with strange men in a hotel in the middle of the night. I certainly don't.
benjamin		 I don't know what married women do or don't do.
elizabeth abbott		Let's get one thing straight. I love him very much. I happen to think he is one of the smartest and most considerate men I ever met. It is not his fault I decided to spend my life in his shadow.
elizabeth abbott		He started to take his pants off... I'm afraid he misread me completely...
caroline		Are you upset, Mother?
daisy		It must have been very cold. I'm glad he had somebody to keep him warm.
caroline		 "I couldn't wait to see her again."
benjamin		 I'm not dressed --
elizabeth abbott		You're delicious just as you are...
benjamin		No. Not many. At least none on a Sunday.
elizabeth abbott		 I feel like I'm with a virgin.
elizabeth abbott		Why wouldn't I?
elizabeth abbott		I never did. As a matter of fact, I have never done much of anything with my life after that...
benjamin		Do I look okay? I borrowed it from one of the men. It's his church suit.
elizabeth abbott		You take my breath away.
benjamin		I feel so much younger when I'm with you...
elizabeth abbott		That's such a nice thing to say. You make me feel years younger, too. I wish I was. I would change so many things. I would undo all of my mistakes.
benjamin		What mistakes?
elizabeth abbott		I kept waiting, thinking I would do something to change my circumstance... Do something... But I never did... It's an awful waste, you can never get it back... wasted time...
benjamin		Are you as cold as I am?
elizabeth abbott		 My god, colder.
elizabeth abbott		Get a key.
benjamin		Hold it...
benjamin		 Elizabeth...
benjamin		 I'll go captain!
the cook		I was planning on talking to you Cap'n Mike... My wife's doing poorly. I'd like to see her one more time...
john grimm		 Who do you intend to have cook then? One of the leading causes of death at sea is food poisoning, right after inadequate safety equipment.
benjamin		I grew up cooking, sir. I'll take the job, if I'm not too old to serve.
dennis smith		You have these pacifists. They say they won't fight on conscience. Where would we be if everybody decided to act according to their conscience?
dennis smith		 Where else can you shoot white people and get away with it...
benjamin		 You're from the Kentucky mountains aren't you? It must be pretty there..
john grimm		There's something not normal about him.
dennis smith		 Whoever said "War is hell," doesn't know shit from shinola.
pleasant curtis		I've been watching you. You seem trustworthy. If something happens to me... could you see this gets to my wife...?
pleasant curtis		If anything happens I want my family to know I was thinking about them, and if I could have, I'd have come back home.
benjamin		You're going to heaven Captain Mike. You're going to heaven.
benjamin		You mind...
the sailor		This don't get fixed...
benjamin		Is your mother home?
the girl		She's gettin' supper ready....
benjamin		 Queenie...
queenie		Lord have mercy....you're home...
queenie		Your brother, Benjamin...
the girl		I didn't know he was my brother.
queenie		 There's a shit load of things you don't know...
benjamin		You never know what's comin' for you.
queenie		Did you learn anything worth repeating?
benjamin		I saw a lot of things.
queenie		You seen some pain.
benjamin		Where's Tizzy?
queenie		Mr. Weathers died in his sleep one night last April. He's sleeping comfortably now in the cemetery on St. James street, God rest his soul...
benjamin		I'm so sorry...
queenie		There's only one or two of them left now... They all just about new... waitin' their turn like everybody else... I am so glad to have I you back. Now we got to find you some proper work and get you married right...
queenie		You're wasting your time... he's stone deaf... You'll be staying in what was Mrs. DeSeroux's room now, you're too much of a man to stay in the attic anymore.
daisy		Oh, excuse me... is Queenie here...?
benjamin		Daisy... it's me, Benjamin.
daisy		Benjamin...Oh my God it's you... Of course it's you...
benjamin		Just a few weeks ago...
daisy		I spoke to Queenie...she told me you were in the war...somewhere at sea... I was so worried about you...
benjamin		 I'm okay.
benjamin		I can't get over you -- You are so lovely...
daisy		You stopped writing.
benjamin		I feel terrible about it... 
daisy		...Beautiful.
caroline		He said, "The most beautiful," Mother.
daisy		What else did he say about...
caroline		He said...
daisy		I can't get over you're home... I've been planning to come by for awhile... my grandmother, you remember Grandma Fuller... of course you remember her... she passed away...
benjamin		I heard that... I'm sorry...
daisy		I've been wanting to get some of her things...
daisy		I can't believe I open the door, and you're actually standing there...It must be fate... What do they call it, "Kismet"? I read a book about a man named Edgar Cayce, a psychic, everything is predetermined...I like to think it's fate. What do you think, Benjamin?
benjamin		I don't know how it works, but I'm sure glad it happened...
daisy		 Have you been to New York...? It's just across the bridge from me... I can actually see the Empire State Building if I stand on my bed... Where have you been? Tell me everything. The last time you wrote you said you were in Russia? I always wanted to go to Russia... Is it as cold as they say...? You wrote you met somebody... did it work out...?
benjamin		 Remember this?
daisy		...This is the picture of Old Man Kangaroo at five in the afternoon..."
benjamin		Are you hungry? Would you like to get something to eat?
daisy		I would love that...
daisy		 Oh my god, I've been just talking about myself...
benjamin		I'm enjoying listening...
daisy		I'm old enough. I`m old enough for a lot of things....
benjamin		Yes you are...
daisy		I have to go back tomorrow... I wish I could stay...
benjamin		Which part?
daisy		That someone wanted to sleep with me.
benjamin		People should want to sleep with you... You're very desirable...
daisy		Let's go back to the house... or get a room somewhere... we can put down your coat...
benjamin		It's not that I don't want to... I just can't... not tonight....Its just not...
daisy		I'm old enough.
benjamin		Go back to New York, Daisy... Be with the people you are so fond of... You can only be young once...
daisy		Do you think you are too old for me... I've been with older men...
daisy		You look so handsome in that suit... your hair...
the nurse		They're sayin' the hurricane's going to miss us... blow right on by...
caroline		Oh, that's great.
daisy		Good news?
caroline		The hurricane.     It is going to miss us.
daisy		I'll just stay under the blankets with my mother. She said nothing would happen to me.
caroline		Would you like me to keep reading?
thomas button		Hello, Benjamin... Do you remember me?
benjamin		Of course, Mr. Button... What happened to you?
thomas button		My foot was infected... I'm afraid they had to remove it...  Welcome home, my friend.
benjamin		You're still drinking Sazerac with whiskey instead of brandy.
thomas button		I'm a man of habit.
benjamin		 Are you still visiting the house on Bourbon street?
thomas button		 Not for a long time.
thomas button		The war has been kind to the button industry... we had gone from making forty thousand buttons a day to making two hundred and fifty thousand... We employed ten times the number of workers... We were operating around the clock...
benjamin		I'm sorry to hear that, Mr. Button.
thomas button		I don't have any people. I keep to myself. I -- I'm frightened. I hope you won't mind... but whenever it's possible... I would enjoy your company...
benjamin		I'll do what I can, Mr. Button.
thomas button		 Tell me Benjamin, do you know anything about buttons?
benjamin		Just what holds my shirt on.
thomas button		 ... comes from the French, "bouton," meaning a bud, or any round object...
thomas button		The practice of buttoning originated in the 13th century... when baggy clothing was replaced with more form-fitting clothes...
benjamin		It's all very interesting.   But what do you want from me?
thomas button		I said, our family has been in the business for a hundred and twenty- four years.
benjamin		Our family?
thomas button		You are my family. Benjamin, you are my son.
benjamin		My mother?
thomas button		...A great uncle, from Germany.  1915, three years before you were born.
benjamin		Why didn't you tell me?
thomas button		I made a mistake.
benjamin		I better go.
thomas button		Where are you going?
benjamin		Home.
queenie		 ...He thinks he can just show up, and everything gonna be fine and dandy, everybody gonna be friends... He got another thing coming...
benjamin		 Thomas...
thomas button		Thank you, Benjamin.
queenie		 Don't you suffer alone for it.
benjamin		 His wife.
benjamin		My name is Benjamin, Benjamin...  Button...
benjamin		That's about it.
benjamin		I'm a friend of Daisy's...
the man		Daisy has company...
daisy		Somebody's looking for me?...
benjamin		I thought I'd come visit... spend some time with you if I could...
daisy		I wish you would have called... You caught me by surprise.
benjamin		I couldn't take my eyes off of you... you were mesmerizing...
daisy		That's so nice of you to say... These are lovely... Thank you...
benjamin		Somebody told me about a restaurant I thought you might enjoy... I made a reservation... Just in case --
daisy		 ...all the dancers go out together after the show... You're welcome to come with us... There'll be all sorts of interesting people... Let me get changed.
daisy		I'll get you a drink...
david		You were her grandmother's friend or something like that...?
benjamin		Something like that.
daisy		 I knew I'd hurt you... Maybe I intended to...
daisy		I did what you told me to... enjoy my life... I'm only going to be young once... I had no idea you were coming. What did you think I was going to do...? You can't expect me to just drop everything, Benjamin... this is my life...
david		 There's a party downtown we're going to...
daisy		 Why don't you come with us, Benjamin... There'll be a lot of musicians, interesting people there.... You'll have a good time...
benjamin		I came here to tell you I made a mistake before...A day doesn't go by that I don't regret it...It's not the way I felt...I should have never let you go...I came because I hoped I could be with you...
david		Daisy, you going to come...?
benjamin		Do you love him?
caroline		Did you Mother?
daisy		I think so. I think I do.
benjamin		 Okay. Okay... I'll see you in New Orleans...
daisy		 He came to tell me his father had died.
caroline		You couldn't have known.
caroline		I've never seen these... You never talked about your dancing very much...
daisy		I was as good as I was ever going to be. For five years... I danced everywhere... London, Prague, Vienna, and I was the only American invited to dance with the Bolshoi... It was glorious...
daisy		Goodnight, Benjamin...
daisy		What did he say?
carol		"Life wasn't very complicated..."
queenie		Mrs. La Tourneau just passed away.
benjamin		That would be me....
the woman		It will just be a minute... please have a seat...
benjamin		Hello, Daisy...
daisy		Who told you?
benjamin		Your friend wired me.
daisy		That was very kind of you... to come all the way here, to see that I was alright.
benjamin		You would have done the same for me...
daisy		My God, look at you. You're perfect....
benjamin		I'll get a room... and once you can leave you'll come home with me to New Orleans. Where you can be with people who love you.
daisy		What home? Who's we? I'm not going back to New Orleans. New Orleans is your home... I don't have a home... I haven't been home for five years... I'm not going anywhere with you...
benjamin		Alright, I'll stay here in Paris... I'll help you with anything you need...
daisy		Benjamin...! I know I'm feeling sorry for myself... But it wasn't supposed to be like this... 
benjamin		You'll change your mind.
daisy		We're not little children playing under the table... Remember, when you came to New York. You didn't belong there. I didn't want to be with you then, I don't want to be with you now! I want you to leave! I'm not going anywhere with you! I want you to stay out of my life!
daisy		I was awfully cruel. He didn't understand. I couldn't have him see me that way...
caroline		 "I didn't leave right away..."
daisy		 No?
daisy		I never knew that.
caroline		I'll get the nurse...
the nurse		Let's get you comfortable.
daisy		Every morning Monsieur Foley leaves eggs and bread and mil,. There's a cafe across the street. People sitting and drinking and talking... I lay on my bed thinking about the rest of my life... about people... about home... until I fall asleep.
caroline		 He said, "I went back..." But then there are a whole lot of pages torn out...
daisy		 A man would go up and clean it. Try and fix what was broken.
daisy		Don't you want to know where I've been?
benjamin		No. I don't care where you've been -- I'm just happy you're back.
queenie		 How come you didn't write or nothin'? Just disappearing like that?
daisy		It was what I needed to do for myself.
queenie		I never took you to be selfish. I hope I'm not wrong. I'm not usually wrong about people.
daisy		She's still taking care of you. 
benjamin		I don't want to ruin it...
benjamin		Goodnight.
daisy		Sleep with me.
benjamin		Are you sure?
daisy		Yes.
daisy		We wouldn't have this... We wouldn't be here... It happened when it was supposed to happen...
benjamin		Relationships have a time and a place.
daisy		Don't say that.
benjamin		What I mean is... You don't usually get more than one chance. If you miss it, it's too late... and it's gone... We're lucky... we had more than one chance.
daisy		 That's easy for you to say... You'll have plenty of chances.
benjamin		Have you ever had a Sazerac with whiskey not brandy?
daisy		Bet I can stay out here longer than you can.
benjamin		Bet you can't.
daisy		You barely have a line, a crease, or a wrinkle... Everyday I have more wrinkles you have less...
benjamin		I love your wrinkles.
daisy		What does it feel like growing younger?
benjamin		I don't know... I'm always looking out of my own eyes...
daisy		Will you still love me when I can't stand straight... when my skin grows old and spotted...
benjamin		Will you still love me when I have pimples. When I think it's funny to make fart noises...
daisy		Maybe some things last...
benjamin		I've never seen anything not come to an end...
daisy		Maybe it's something you can't see...
daisy		Goodnight, Benjamin.
benjamin		Goodnight, Daisy...
daisy		 Caroline?
caroline		 I don't understand. When did you meet Dad?
daisy		Dear Robert... some time after that...
caroline		Did you ever tell him about this Benjamin?
daisy		He knew enough. He loved me as I was. I loved him for who he was. What more was needed?
caroline		"That night, in the Caribbean I had a visitor..."
queenie		I wanted to tell you I love you and your mama's gone...
daisy		Is anything wrong?
benjamin		Queenie came to tell me she loved me... and that my mother was gone.
daisy		...go back to sleep...
benjamin		 Hello... Queenie... we're back...
benjamin		We are meant to lose the people we love. It's how we know how important they are to us.
the woman		...It's such a lovely place... You must have a lot of fond memories. It must be hard for you to give it up.
the man		Is Mrs. Williamson here yet... I'm sorry to be late...
the woman		It's a wonderful old place, darling... I think we will be so happy here...
benjamin		They come with the house...
daisy		 I loved that house... it smelled like firewood... The chimney leaked smoke... We didn't care... Oh don't stop dear... don't stop...
benjamin		You're crying...
daisy		It's just the chlorine...
benjamin		You chose something to do... something so special... so unique... there was such a short period of time that you could do it... Even if nothing had happened ... Sooner or later you would be in the same place you are now...
daisy		I don't like getting old.
daisy		I promise you, I'll never lose myself to self-pity again...
caroline		I thought the wind had shifted away...
daisy		 I don't remember if I turned the lights off. Did I leave the heater on?
the nurse		Let's get you comfortable...
daisy		You have the most beautiful eyes.
caroline		He said, "She found peace."
daisy		 Peace.
benjamin		You're still beautiful to watch...
daisy		Dancing is all about the line... the line of your body...after awhile... you lose the line... and you can never get it back...
benjamin		 We finally caught up to each other...
daisy		I thought I was far too old... I'm pregnant...
caroline		 You were pregnant? You never said anything, did you? I mean, what happened to the child?
daisy		 The child...
caroline		 They said if you needed oxygen...
daisy		I want to breathe on my own... Please... sit down, my darling...
caroline		"She flourished..."
daisy		 Hmmm...
daisy		I thought I heard the nurse slip, and say "he..."
daisy		I know you're afraid.
benjamin		I'm not hiding it.
daisy		Okay.   What's your worst fear?
benjamin		What if it has...what if its like me?...
daisy		Then we'll love it all the more...
benjamin		I want to be father... not a little brother... I don't want to be picked up from elementary school by my kid... I don't want anyone babysitting me...
daisy		I'm going to make this work... This is what I want, and I want it with you...
benjamin		You know, there's nothing I wouldn't do for you...
daisy		Would you tell a blind man he can't have children? You will be a father for as long as you can. I know the consequences. I accepted that. Your love, loving you, is worth everything to me.  For the fiftieth time today I've got to go pee...
elizabeth abbott		 Anything's possible.
daisy		Ready?
benjamin		Yes.
benjamin		Get me an ambulance... My wife is seven months pregnant and fell on the stairs...
daisy		Benjamin... the baby's coming...
benjamin		You're sure there's nothing wrong with her?
caroline		He was my father...? This Benjamin was my father? 
daisy		It doesn't change for a moment who you are. You were a gift. Sometimes the gifts we are given are not free.
caroline		You never said a word to me...
daisy		 My dearest darling, we were both deprived of him...
the nurse		It can get to you...
daisy		I was worried you weren't coming back...
caroline		 You're all I have.
daisy		Read the rest of it, darling. 
caroline		"You grew, like the doctor had said, normal and healthy..."
benjamin		Don't eat sand...
daisy		What are you talking about?
benjamin		She needs someone to grow old with...
daisy		She'll learn to accept whatever happens... She loves you...
benjamin		She needs a father not a playmate.
daisy		Is it that my age is starting to show...? Is that what you are telling me? Have you lost your desire for me...?
benjamin		You don't need another child to raise...
daisy		You're going to leave me, aren't you?
a man		Before you look around they'll be in High School dating.
daisy		I remember your first birthday like it was yesterday.
benjamin		I want you to know I love you...
caroline		I almost wish I didn't know any of this.  I feel odd, reading...it...
daisy		I don't know.    I never heard from him.
caroline		There are postcards...
caroline		"... I hope you start all over again..."
daisy		 He'd been gone for a long time...
daisy		Somebody left their slipper...
benjamin		I wanted to see you both.
caroline		You ready, Mom?
daisy		No... He was telling me a very sad story about a mutual friend we hadn't seen in a long time... This is my friend, Benjamin... you knew him when you were... just a baby...
caroline		Hi...
benjamin		Hello...
the man		I'm sorry... I thought you were done...
daisy		This is a friend of my family's... Benjamin Button... this is my husband... Robert...
robert		It was nice to have met you... We'll be in the car, darling...
daisy		I'm just closing up...
benjamin		She's so lovely... she looks like you... Does she dance?
daisy		Not very well.
benjamin		I suppose that would be from my side of things.
benjamin		Just what you can see.
daisy		You ware right. She needed a father. I couldn't have raised both of you. I'm not that strong.
benjamin		I'm at the Pontchartrain Hotel on the avenue. I have no idea what I'm going to do.
daisy		I have to go.
caroline		That young man was my father?
the nurse		The hurricane changed directions again. They are predicting it will make landfall sometime soon.
caroline		Is there anything we need to do?
the nurse		Arrangements are being made to move people if we have to. I'll let you know as soon as we know anything.
daisy		Please tell me what he says?
benjamin		Hello?
daisy		May I come in?
benjamin		Please...
daisy		Nothing lasts.
benjamin		I never once stopped loving you...
daisy		I'm an old woman now, Benjamin.
benjamin		Some things you don't ever forget... the feel... the taste...
daisy		Please read...
caroline		That's the last thing he wrote...
daisy		A year or so after your father passed... There was a call...
daisy		Hello?... Yes?... Speaking -- I don't understand? Where was that?
daisy		It's the last house...
daisy		I'm Daisy...
the man		Thank you for coming... I'm David Hernandez with the Orleans Parish department of Child Welfare Services.
queenie's daughter		I told Mr. Hernandez about Benjamin bein' one of us. I told him if he needs a place to stay... it's alright... he can stay here... he is blood after all...
daisy		Benjamin.
daisy		You play really beautifully.
the man		He doesn't seem to like to be touched.
daisy		Do you remember me?   I'm Daisy.
daisy		It's good to meet you Benjamin. Do you mind if I sit with you? I would love to hear you play.
daisy		Queenie's daughter saw to it that he was taken care of...
queenie's daughter		You just ate breakfast.
queenie's daughter		He doesn't believe he's already had his breakfast.
daisy		Let's see if we can find something else for you to do.
daisy		I know you can't.
daisy		What do you mean?
daisy		It's alright... It's alright to forget things...
daisy		 I wish you'd come down...
daisy		You're right, you can see everything sweetheart...
daisy		 I knew a man who could fly. Come down and I'll tell you all about him.
daisy		And I went to take care of him...
daisy		How would you like to help me unpack?
daisy		This is the picture of old Man Kangaroo at five in the afternoon, when he got his beautiful hind legs just as Big God Ngong had promised.
daisy		That's right... Benjamin and Daisy...
caroline		I'm going to see what they want us to do...
caroline		He started to write something else... "I'm going..." But he stopped...
daisy		Now you do.
caroline		I'd better go and see what they're planning to do...
daisy		Goodnight, Benjamin...
****Dialogues from script :Custody.txt****

rick		Helluva talent, that kid.
rick		Probably be in the bigs in another year.
melanie		Zach? Are you ready? Mommy, can't be late again.
cut to:		INT. MELANIE'S HOUSE - ZACH'S BEDROOM
zach		I'm ready.
melanie		Come on baby. Don't do this to mommy. Not today.
zach		I don't want to go. Melanie hastily dresses her son.
melanie		Zach, do you want mommy to get fired?
zach		Yes.
melanie		If I get fired we won't have the money to go to Six Flags. Zach quickly dresses himself. CUT TO:
rick		Must be something to have that kind of talent. He's just a kid, nineteen, twenty tops, and if he stays healthy and he stays focused, the world is his oyster. Guys like you and me, we squandered those opportunities long ago.
john		You.
rick		Huh? JOHN Guys like you...
rick		And me...
john		... squandered opportunities. I, on the other hand, knew where I was going. I had that kind of drive, I just never had the talent.
rick		You knew where you were going?
john		Absolutely.
rick		At nineteen?
john		Without question.
rick		The only thing I knew for certain was that I would run to the corner store every day for beer.
cut to:		EXT. DAIRY MART - DAY
melanie		Lock your door. I'll be right back. Melanie opens her door.
zach		Mom?
melanie		What?
zach		I'm not thirteen. It's against the law to leave me alone in a car until I'm thirteen.
melanie		Come on.
john		I had priorities. I understood what it meant to have an attention span.
rick		You could focus?
john		I was the King of Focus.
rick		The Duke of Diligence?
john		The Count of Concentration.
rick		Duck.
john		Huh?
rick		The Polestar Prince.
melanie		Did you decide? ZACH I want Coke.
melanie		Get one.
zach		No, Pepsi.  No, Seven-Up. Maybe root beer.
melanie		Make up your mind already.
zach		So many choices. A glance to her watch.
john		I'm just saying grow up. You can't keep drifting. RICK I thought I did grow up...
john		When you got married?
rick		Yeah...
john		You matured a little.
rick		It's a process.
john		No Bueller, it's a decision. One you need to make. You can't keep running without direction. If you don't know where you're going you'll never get what you want. CUT TO:
zach		I want Sobe.
melanie		Too bad.
zach		I don't want Coke. I want Sobe.
melanie		 We'll take the soda.
clerk		Two dollars and... MELANIE Hold on a minute. Please?
customer		Come on lady.
melanie		Get your Sobe.
rick		I thought I got direction...
john		When Cindy had kids? RICK Yeah...
john		They gave you purpose. But purpose, my friend, is not direction.
rick		East.
john		Huh?
rick		My direction is east. I parked in the deck.
john		I'm right around the...
rick		Corner?
john		Yeah.
rick		We're always going in different directions. JOHN Mine are much more productive.
rick		And much less adventurous.
john		Well, I'm gonna...
rick		Go?
john		Yeah.
rick		Then go.
john		That's what I'm going to do. Responsibility calls. John turns and heads south. Rick takes a bite of popcorn, looks to the sky for a moment, grins, and heads off Northeast.
zach		Sobe sucks. I want Coke.
john		You want to...
rick		Get a beer?
john		Yeah.
rick		Can't. JOHN Can't?
rick		Gotta get home.
john		Why?
rick		Family, my man. Take time off for a ballgame ya should probably tend to the family too. You should try it sometime.
john		In the grand scheme of things family is a liability, not an asset. Rick continues on.
john		 Do you even know what you're doing or where you're going?
rick		 East.
john		East leads nowhere, my friend. You should be heading south. The bar is south. East takes you places you don't want to go.
boss		You're late.
melanie		I know, but...
boss		No buts. You're late. MELANIE But...
boss		It's the third time this week Mel. You put me in a rough spot here. My boss wants me to let you go. His boss wants me to let you go. I gotta let you go.
melanie		But...
boss		If a person isn't responsible enough to be prompt to their job, they're not responsible enough to work for me.
melanie		But... BOSS You're fired Mel. Just get your things and go.
boss		We still on for dinner?
officer one		Is that...?
officer two		You think...?
officer one		Naw...
officer two		Can't tell from here...
officer one		Too far away. Let's roost him. OFFICER TWO Call it in.
officer two		It's him... get him, get him, get him. They curb the car in front of Rick.
officer one		Get em up. Up I said... up.
rick		Huh?
officer two		Get `em where we can see `em slimeball.
officer one		Oh, we got ourselves a litterbug here.
rick		What?
rick		What's going...
officer one		Shaddup!
officer two		You know your rights, cretin, but just in case you don't...
rick		What the hell? Officer Two spins Rick to face him.
officer two		You have the right to shut the hell up. Do you understand this right?
rick		Yes.
officer one		Shut him the hell up, Jimmy.
officer two		If you don't shut the hell up my partner might exercise his right to shoot you. Do you understand?
officer one		He's looking at me funny, Jimmy.
officer two		You have the right not to look at my partner in any way that might be construed as `funny' which could result in harm to your person. Do you understand this right?
officer one		He twitching?
officer two		Really? I don't think he is. Are you twitching boy? RICK No Sir.
officer one		Look at him, he's twitching. Nothing pisses me off more than twitching and talking. If he doesn't stop I'm gonna waste him.
officer two		You have the right not to twitch or shiver or make any other odd movements that might encourage my partner to discharge his weapon, do you understand?
melanie		You're making a huge mistake.
detective johnson		What do we got here boys?
officer two		It's him. We got him.
officer one		He's a twitcher... a twitcher and a talker. Boy, I tell you, if he'd twitched one more time I would've deposited large amounts of hot lead in his ass.
detective johnson		I'll take it from here boys. OFFICER TWO Report too?
detective johnson		No, that's your job.
officer one		If we have to write the report I say I get to shoot him.
detective johnson		No one's getting shot today, Bobby.
officer one		Can't I just wing him or something?
detective johnson		Jimmy; get him out of here.
melanie		Tell me I'm not responsible... asshole. I have a kid. He has a goldfish. I have my dignity. 
detective johnson		You don't want to piss Bobby off. He's a little unstable.
rick		A little? He represents your force? DETECTIVE JOHNSON Affirmative action. We have to hire our fair share of disabled --- Quota thing.
rick		His psychosis doesn't appear disabling.
melanie		Where's Zach?
detective johnson		Take your time, Ma'am. We need you to be certain.
detective johnson		Back to front.
detective johnson		All of you face forward. The two turn forward.
detective johnson		Are you sure? LADY IN BLACK Could you have him step forward?
detective johnson		Number three take two steps forward.
detective johnson		You're positive?
detective johnson		Okay number three step back. Rick does as he's told. DETECTIVE JOHNSON Turn to your right --- all of you...
detective johnson		...and exit.
judge		Order in the court.
judge		Order in the court, I say.
prosecutor		Have a seat.
judge		Do you know why you're here today, Mr. Stevens?
rick		Why am I here?
judge		Are you being rhetorical?
rick		Are you asking me?
judge		You stand here today an accused man.
rick		Accused? Accused of what?
judge		You have been placed in custody of your children.
rick		Huh?
prosecutor		Your children, Mr. Stevens. You do realize you have children, don't you?
rick		Yes, but...
prosecutor		But nothing Mr. Stevens, either you have children or you don't.
rick		I do.
prosecutor		So, you accept responsibility for bringing young life into the world?
rick		I guess...
prosecutor		There's no guessing, Mr. Stevens, either you're responsible for siring offspring or you aren't.
rick		I am, but I'm not sure it was responsible.
prosecutor		A crime of passion, Mr. Stevens? How convenient.  And you accept the consequences of said actions? RICK Why am I here?
prosecutor		Why are you here, Mr. Stevens? Why are you here? I'll tell you why you're here. Are you familiar with Ms. Cynthia Stevens?
rick		Yeah, she's my wife.
prosecutor		Was your wife, Sir. Was your wife. She recently filed for divorce. Were you aware of that?
rick		No, no I wasn't.
prosecutor		Well, she did. She also named you as her coconspirator in the act of having children. Were you aware of that, Mr. Stevens?
rick		Again, no.
prosecutor		Mr. Stevens, you just told the court that you aware you had children. You have also admitted that Ms. Cynthia Stevens was, in fact, your wife. 
rick		Yes, but...
prosecutor		Then why, Mr. Stevens, do you continue to deny culpability in this situation?
judge		Answer the question.
audience		Answer the question.
prosecutor		The question, Mr. Stevens.
rick		How can you be sure it was me?
prosecutor		She picked you out of a lineup, Sir. What more do you need?
rick		Time. PROSECUTOR Time is not an option, Mr. Stevens. Time --- is not --- an option.
prosecutor		You don't deny being married to Ms. Stevens, nor do you deny the act of procreation. You seem to understand that your actions bear consequence. You seem to understand that with parenthood, came responsibility. 
rick		Yes, yes I did.
prosecutor		It's time to pay the piper, Mr. Stevens.  It is the recommendation of the State that Richard C. Stevens been sentenced to the fullest capacity allowed by law.
rick		What about Cindy?
prosecutor		Excuse me?
rick		My ex, Cindy, what about her responsibilities to the children?
prosecutor		She cut a deal, Rick. You were the one we wanted. You were the one we got. She took the plea. Sure, it costs her financially. But what is freedom worth? A CLAMOR begins to rise from the crowd as they talk among themselves. The RAP of the gavel.
judge		I see no reason to extend this any further. Mr. Stevens you have been found competent by the State and by this Court. You are completely cognizant of your surroundings, and you leave me no choice. This court finds you guilty as charged.
rick		Guilty of what?
judge		You are hereby remanded to custody of your children for no less than a lifetime. This Court is adjourned.
rick		I can't do this alone. Don't make me do this alone. I'll never make it...
judge		If you can't do the time, Mr. Stevens, then don't do the crime.
melanie		Highly Effective Strategies of Time Management for the Single Parent?
melanie		It was written by a man... a married man.
kris		Daddy!
rick		Hi guys.
phillip		I love you daddy.
rick		I love you too, Phillip.
nicholas		I love you more.
rick		I love you more.
nicholas		I love YOU more.
kris		Daddy, how come you're in jail?
phillip		Is this where we live?
kris		When can we see mommy?
rick		Come here guys. I want to talk to you. The boys gather round.
phillip		What's wrong Daddy?
rick		I don't know when we're going to see your mom again. KRIS Is she okay?
rick		She's kind of mad at daddy.
nicholas		Mommy mad at me too?
rick		No, baby, not at all. Your mom needs time to work through some things. So, for awhile, it's just going to be us...
kris		What's she need time for?
rick		To figure out who she is, where she's going, what she wants.
nicholas		I miss mommy.
rick		She misses you too, baby. And this isn't permanent... we're going to fight this... we're going to appeal. We'll take it to the Supreme Court if we have to. KRIS You don't want us either?
rick		Of course I want you. I just don't think I should have to do this alone.
jailer		I feel for you, I really do, but I've seen your kind before. You're a lifer. Whether it's fair or not. Whether justice was served. It doesn't matter. You're here for the duration.
zach		What's wrong mommy?
melanie		Nothing.
zach		Why are you crying? Did I do something wrong?
melanie		Nothing at all baby.
zach		 Tell me a story?
melanie		Once upon a time, a very long time ago...
jailer		Get yourself cleaned up.
rick		Huh?
jailer		You have visitors... in the courtyard.
father		Quite the pickle you've got yourself in.
rick		So it seems.
mother		She was no good for you. I knew it from the start.
rick		Mom, don't... okay?
mother		Just saying...
rick		I know, but what's done is done.
mother		You're dad and I are here for you.
rick		I know mom.
mother		Are you eating?
rick		Yeah, I guess.
mother		Do you need anything? Food? Money? RICK Watch the kids one night? I could use some time to myself.
mother		Um... Yeah... okay... I suppose that would be all right... we'd have to ask your father, but I don't see why that would be a problem.  Other than that everything's okay?
rick		We're okay...
mother		Because it doesn't have to be like this. Mary Ryan, a friend of mine, her son had the same thing happen to him. Wife just up and left with no warning at all. He didn't waste a day. No sir, he was up and at `em almost instantly. You can leave here, you know? Mary Ryan's son did.
rick		I like it here, mom. MOTHER What's to like? It's dingy and filthy. It's no place to raise children.
rick		It's home and it's stable. The one thing the boys need right now is stability.
mother		You can't keep hiding forever.
rick		It's been five days, mom. I'm not hiding. I just need time to adjust.
mother		Mary Ryan's son thinks you're hiding. RICK Do I know this guy?
mother		No, but I think you should. I hate that woman. How can a mother abandon her kids? How could she do this to my babies?
cindy		Scott? Scott?
scott		 Yeah baby?
zach		What ya doing?
melanie		Looking for a job.
zach		I know what you could do.
melanie		What's that?
zach		You could stay home with me.
melanie		What do you pay?
zach		Sixty-five cents.
melanie		A day?
zach		A week.
melanie		You can afford that?
zach		If it keeps my mommy home with me.
rick		It's hard...
frank		Of course it's hard, sometimes feels like you're in prison, but you gotta be a man... stand up for yourself... provide for your family.
rick		And you can help? FRANK Me? I'll put ya to work. Some long hours, but it all pays off. Keeps you off the welfare system if ya know what I mean.
rick		Yeah.
frank		I'd rather pay you than pay the government to pay you. You can start Monday.
frank		Here's the number to the day-care. Tell them you know me, they'll cut you a break.
cut to:		INT. DAY-CARE
rick		No, you seemed to cover everything. Ms. Heath bends down to the kid's level. MS. HEATH You're going to like it here.
first interviewer		I'm sorry. It would be really nice to have you on board, but you're just a little too qualified.
cut to:		INT. DAY-CARE
third interviewer		Over qualified.
fifth interviewer		I don't think I've seen such a perfect candidate.
cut to:		INT. DAY-CARE REST ROOM
melanie		Really?
provider		You are bad, bad children.
cut to:		INT. DAY-CARE HALLWAY
fifth interviewer		Education level. Work experience. You really fit the billet.
rick		So, did everything go okay? PROVIDER They were angels.
rick		Did you have fun boys?
rick		Get those seat belts on. The kids reluctantly comply.
rick		So, how was your day? BOYS IN UNISON
rick		Didn't they feed you? They said they would feed you. The brochure said meals provided.
kris		We didn't eat nuffin.
phillip		Daddy, I'm hungry.
frank		So, how was your first week?
rick		Thirteen hours a day doesn't leave me much time for my kids, But a job's a job, right?
frank		Now you're talking.
rick		Two hundred and fifty bucks?
frank		Pretty good, huh?
rick		Two-hundred-and-fifty-bucks?
frank		Don't spend it all in one place. RICK I give you sixty-five hours of my time and you give me two hundred fifty bucks?
frank		It's the American way. This country was founded on low paying, back breaking, long hour jobs. Why, work like this makes you a bona fide patriot. Ya gotta love it.
rick		 What's not to love?
rick		Checks?
rick		I'm sorry, I'm clueless. My wife handled the checks.
rick		I work for him.
rick		Great.
rick		Huh?
rick		Really?
rick		Potty train? Nicky?
zach		Mommy?
melanie		Yes, baby?
zach		When are we going to have a normal life.
melanie		We do have a normal life... for us.
zach		I mean when are we going to be like other people? She pulls a flyer from the printer. CU. on flyer: BABY SITTING
nicholas		Big boy go potty.
rick		Are you a big boy?
nicholas		Huge-mong-gus.
rick		Big boys go potty on the potty, Nicholas. Nicholas go potty on the potty?
rick		You're brothers go potty on the potty. Daddy goes potty on the potty. Nicholas go potty on the potty?
nicholas		Okay.
rick		If Nicky goes potty on the potty.
nicholas		I want a toy!
nicholas		I have to go potty?
rick		Really?
nicholas		All done.
rick		I think we're making progress.
rick		Seventy-two cents. Here's two- fifty.
rick		I know and I'm working on that.
mother		What happened? Where is he? Is he going to be okay?
rick		He's going to be fine. They're working on him now. From what they told me it's just a few stitches.
father		Boys will be boys. A NURSE peeks out.
nurse		Mr. Stevens can you come back? The doctor could use your help in calming the child down.
rick		Mom? MOTHER Just go. I'll watch these two.
doctor		Thank God.
rick		How can I help?
doctor		Well, I need to give him a local so that I can sew the laceration, but he's not cooperating. Maybe hold his hand and distract him? Rick moves to Phillip.
rick		Hi little buddy.
phillip		Hi Daddy.
rick		I need you to be a good boy, okay?
phillip		Okay daddy.
rick		So, did you have fun today.
phillip		Uh huh.
rick		Did you play with all your friends?
phillip		Uh huh.
phillip		That fuckin' hurts! RICK Phillip!
phillip		But daddy, it does.
rick		That's a big people word. You're a little people, and little people don't use big people words.
phillip		Okay.
rick		 I'm sorry.
phillip		Do that again and my daddy's going to kick your ass.
rick		Look I'm really sorry.
doctor		Can I ask you something?
rick		Sure, I guess.
doctor		My son's a wuss. He cries over hangnails. My wife and I have tried everything to toughen him up, but nothing works. I was wondering if our kids could play together. Maybe some of Phillip's "boy" would rub off on Junior. CUT TO:
rick		Insurance?
receptionist		Yeah, Insurance. That thing that covers medical emergencies?
rick		I don't think I have any.
receptionist		Everybody has insurance.
rick		I don't think I do.
receptionist		Okay.
rick		Can I run a tab?
receptionist		You don't have a check?
rick		I'm not even responsible for myself. How am I suppose to raise three kids?
mother		It can be done.
rick		I don't see how.
mother		Find a way. Everything happens for a reason. God doesn't abandon his children, and neither will you.
rick		God doesn't pay day-care.
mother		There are other things out there... less expensive ways.
rick		Could you watch them?
mother		Oh... uh... well... I don't think your father is willing to do that. We raised our kids, Rick.
rick		How `bout tonight, so I can catch a breath?
mother		What? My watching them while you were in there with Phillip wasn't enough? Make me feel guilty.
rick		I'll just ask God to watch them. He never abandons his children.
mother		Take this.
rick		I don't want your money mom.
mother		Take the money.
cut to:		INT. SUMMIT COUNTY JAIL CELL
nicholas		I can't do it Daddy.
rick		You can do it.
nicholas		I can't do it.
rick		Would you do it for a nickel?
nicholas		I can't do it.
rick		Watch daddy.
rick		Daddy go potty in the potty.
nicholas		Daddy?
rick		Yes, Nicky?
nicholas		I peed.
rick		Hi.
melanie		I'm Melanie... The baby-sitter...
rick		Oh, right, I'm glad you could...
nicholas		My daddy has a big pee-pee.
rick		I was just demonstrating the art of...
melanie		It's okay. I saw.
rick		 Great.
rick		You have a kid.
melanie		So do you.
rick		Not criticizing, just surprised. I don't believe anyone at their old day-care had kids. If they did they kept them in a closet and only brought them out on special occasions. Christmas, Easter, an occasional birthday, and maybe when they had friends over for dinner, but only as a status symbol. It was like they'd say, "Here's the white picket fence. Here's the SUV. Here's the dog. Oh yes, here's the 2.5 children. Kids you can get back in the closet now."
melanie		You'd could make a fortune with a Renta- Kid business.
rick		That has potential.
melanie		I've often thought of renting mine. Why pay for a baby-sitter when thousands of people would pay good money to set your kid on the mantle for a few hours?
rick		So, what's his name? ZACH I'm Zach.
rick		Hello Zach. I'm Rick.
zach		You're old.
rick		You got me there. I am old.
zach		How old?
rick		Older than dirt. When I was a kid we didn't have dirt. We had rocks and we had hammers. If we wanted dirt we banged a few rocks with really big hammers, and then we had dirt.
melanie		Worked the chain gangs?
zach		You're too old for my mom.
rick		This is Kristian. This is Phillip, and the little guy from the potty, is Nicholas. Guys, this is Zach and...
melanie		Mel.
rick		Mel.
melanie		Beautiful kids. RICK Thanks. So's your's.
melanie		Ever try Cheerios?
rick		Huh?
melanie		For potty training. Give him something to aim at. Drop a Cheerio or two in the toilet and let him pee away.
rick		I'll have to try that. So, any questions about the job? Melanie moves towards the boys.
melanie		I'm going to go talk to them for a little bit. I'll let you know.
zach		My mom tells great stories.
kris		We don't have a mom.
zach		That's okay, I don't have a dad.
melanie		Once upon a time...
melanie		The end...
melanie		We'll read another one in a little bit.
rick		You have a real knack there.
melanie		Not a knack really. It's just about finding hope in places there should be none.
rick		Whatever it is, I've never seen them take to a woman like that. Melanie smiles.
rick		You want the job?
melanie		I'd like that.
rick		Maybe we should...
woman		Go out sometime? I'd like that. When?
rick		I don't know... maybe...
woman		Tonight?
melanie		No problem.
kris		Who was that?
melanie		That was your daddy.
phillip		I love daddy.
kris		Is he coming home?
melanie		No, he's going to be late. He has a date.
melanie		So, I guess you have to deal with me a little while longer.
woman		You're a single father? That's wonderful. So many men refuse to accept any responsibility for their kids. So, how many do you have?
rick		Um... three.
woman		That's amazing. I'm sure they're just angels. CUT TO:
woman		My sister has three. She said when the second one was born it doubled the work. She didn't realize the third would double the work load would again. And to think you do it all by yourself.
rick		Um... kinda.
woman		You're a terrific man. Did I tell you I love kids? They love me. It just comes so instinctively even though I've never had kids myself. I get lots of practice with my nephews though. So, when can I meet your boys?
kris		You're not my mom.
rick		You can't.
woman 2		A guy like you is so hard to find. I think I love you and I think you need to love me too.
cut to:		EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
rick		That was incredible.
woman 3		Yeah. RICK I know I haven't known you very long, but I there's something I need to say...
rick		 Was it something I said?
melanie		Did you have a good time?
rick		Yeah, it was good... kinda okay... pretty much sucked.
melanie		What happened?
rick		Why can't I find a woman like you?
melanie		You're trying too hard. RICK I feel bad for the boys. They don't have a "mom". She'll always be their mother, but she'll never be their mom.
melanie		Quit trying so hard. You're forcing issues that can't be forced. Relax. Everything happens when and how it's suppose to. It's about spirit and finding the will to love again, for you and the boys.
rick		You want to stay and...
melanie		I'm going to get... RICK Going?
melanie		Yeah.
rick		You sure?
melanie		Positive.
melanie		I'll see you tomorrow.
rick		Ok.
nicholas		Nicky almost do'd it.
rick		Almost, baby boy. Almost.
carrie		Finally had to grow up?
rick		Yeah, I...
john		You've got direction.
rick		I suppose. I don't know if you'd call it direction, but there's a definite sense of purpose.
carrie		Good for you.
rick		Yeah, but is it good for the kids?
john		Do the kids have direction?
rick		I'm probably not as demanding of them as I should be.
john		You have to instill a sense of direction at a very early age. CUT TO:
mother		So, Phillip what do you want to be when you grow up?
phillip		Daddy says I can do three things when I grow up.
mother		And what are those? Phillip takes a deep breath.
phillip		I can go to college and move the hell out of his house. I can join the military and move the hell out of his house, or I can get a job and...
rick		... move the hell out of my house.
mother		Rick!
rick		Ya gotta let them be what they're going to be.
john		No, you have to mold them early. If you don't mold them they'll grow up to be Democrats.
rick		And you do this with your kids? JOHN That's not the point, is it, Carrie?
carrie		I think Rick is doing a wonderful job.
rick		It's a struggle, going at it alone, but...
carrie		Excuse me, gentleman, I need to powder my nose.
john		I can't believe you.
rick		What?
john		Whining about being single. Married men would kill to be in your situation! RICK I'm just saying it's hard.
john		You have your sons to raise without feminine interference. Do you understand the significance of your situation? Do you understand the power in your circumstance?
john		Men, all over the world, would kill for that kind of power.
john		You have the kids and she pays child support... and you sit here and whine about things being hard? Give me a break.
rick		It does have its advantages, I suppose.
cut to:		INT. SMALL SUBURBAN HOME
john		Another?
rick		Uh...
john		On me.
rick		Sure.
rick		He went to grab a couple beers.
carrie		You know Rick, someday some girl is going to realize what a good man you are.
rick		Carrie, I don't even have the funds to buy my own beer.
carrie		Love isn't about money. Love is about truth and selflessness and discovering who you are and who'll be. Someday, someone will find you.
melanie		I'll call you back.
melanie		What?
melanie		What was that for?
rick		For finding me.
nicholas		Have to potty, daddy.
rick		Go potty, buddy.
rick		I thank you for everything, but it's time to move on.
frank		Where are you going? What will you do?
rick		I don't know, Frank, but I'm worth more than this.
dissolve to:		INT. OFFICE BUILDING
rick		Phillip, what's wrong?
phillip		Well, I wanted that piece and Kris took that piece, and I really, really wanted that piece.
melanie		What's so important about that piece?
kris		It's bigger.
rick		Easy on the drinks guys.
melanie		What's wrong, Phillip?
phillip		I gotta pee and Kris...
rick		We're not going to fight over the bathroom. 
melanie		What's that?
rick		Huh? Oh, this? Nothing!
cut to:		INT. SMALL SUBURBAN HOME - BATH ROOM
phillip		This time mine's bigger.
dissolve to:		INT. SUMMIT COUNTY JAIL
rick		I took off work to be here.
cindy		Thank you.
rick		So, what do you want?
cindy		I want to see your boys.
rick		I don't think that's a good idea.
cindy		I'm their mother.
rick		You forfeited that obligation, remember?
cindy		That's not fair! RICK You abandoned your kids!
cindy		I did not. I left them in the care of their loving father. There's a difference.
rick		Is there?
cindy		I just want to see the boys.
rick		You think they even know who you are?
cindy		I'm their mother.
rick		You keep saying that.
cindy		I know things can never go back to the way they were before.
man		Next...
cindy		Rick? Rick? Rick?
rick		Huh?
cindy		Let's keep the attorneys out of this and settle things like civil adults.
rick		Hi guys.
melanie		This is a surprise. Leave work to spend the day with us?
rick		Come on guys. Someone is here to see you.
melanie		Rick?  Rick?
cindy		Thank you.
rick		Three hours.
cindy		They'll be here.
cut to:		INT. SMALL SUBURBAN HOME
rick		Where are you going.
melanie		Anywhere you're not.
rick		What about the boys? What about me?
melanie		I'm all about second chances, but not when I come in second place.
rick		What are you talking about?
melanie		Why was she here? What was that?
rick		She's their mother.
melanie		Mother? I've been more of a mother than she ever was.
rick		She's their mother.
melanie		Who willingly walked out of their lives.
rick		She's their mother.
melanie		You keep saying that.
rick		You think this is easy? You think raising these boys is something I want to do alone? Every day is like a prison sentence. Every thing I do, every decision I make is directly affected by the boundaries of my responsibility. I have three children, but I have no me. Everywhere I go people stare at me...
rick		They stare at me, and I know what they're thinking...
pedestrian		You poor, poor man. You poor, poor children. How unfortunate to only have your father. How terrible it must be not to know your mother.
melanie		What about Zach? How noble of you to be the only single parent in the world. How stoic you are... so concerned with the best interests of your children. Too bad. Their best interest is walking out the door.
kris		When can we see you again?
cindy		Someday.
phillip		Is someday tomorrow?
cindy		Someday is someday, baby.
rick		Give your Mom a hug, guys, then get in the house.
rick		For?
cindy		I thought things had changed.
rick		But?
cindy		I am who I am, Rick. I'm not cut out to be a mommy.
rick		I could have told you that.
cindy		I had to give it a shot. Rick turns to walk away.
rick		At whose expense? Huh, Cindy? At whose expense? Who's going to dry their tears tomorrow when they realize your never coming back? Who's going to rock them to sleep at night when they ask why mommy doesn't love them?
cindy		You are, and you wouldn't have it any other way.
rick		I don't know, buddy.
nicholas		Daddy?
rick		Yes Nicky?
nicholas		I love Mel.
rick		She loves you too.
rick		 Don't you yell! If you have something to say, come here and tell me.
kris		Dad?
rick		Yeah?
kris		Phillip's in the closet
phillip		Being Daddy.
rick		Who locked the door?
kris		Wasn't me...
phillip		I did.
mother		Rick?... Rick?... Rick?
mother		Take care of my babies.
father		What are you giving him money for?
mother		To help him through the hard times. He's a good father, just having a rough go.
father		I've never met a good father that couldn't support his kids.
mother		I'm too old for that. The better side of life has passed me by. What if they fall? I don't hear like I used to. What if one of them was seriously hurt and I didn't hear their cry? I hate that the only thing I feel competent to do is give them money. I love my son and I love my grandbabies, but how would I live with myself if something happened to those children?
representative		Sir, you're 3 months behind on your electric bill.
jailer		I always knew you were a lifer.
rick		They'll be together though, right?
adoption agent		Mr. Stevens, I wish I could make that promise, but the odds of an adoptive family willing to take them all is astronomical.
rick		Come on guys we're out of here.
adoption agent		Mr. Stevens?
rick		I'm sorry, I made a mistake.
rick		 Can I get some help here.
rick		Can you help me?
convict		Can you help him?
rick		I don't know.
convict		What does he need?
rick		I don't know.
convict		He needs a father, not a book reading baby-sitter.
rick		 I can't fucking do this.
convict		Yes you can.
convict		Use your mind and your heart. It's different than it ever should have been... but different isn't wrong.
rick		But I...
convict		Use what you have. There is a vein of wealth inside you just waiting to be mined. Think differently than you have ever thought before. Worker harder than you ever thought you could. Love these children like they've never been loved before.
rick		How?
convict		The answer lies within. Quit worrying about how these misguided events have torn your life apart. Quit dwelling on all of your misgivings. Look around you. You're not alone. But you, and you alone, will make the difference.
rick		It's not worth a lot, maybe a few hundred bucks, but it might keep you in soap for a year.
case worker		Mr. Stevens, I can see you now. Rick and the Pregnant Woman lock eyes.
pregnant woman		I ain't some charity case. I know what you think when you look at me. You think; Look at that poor, poor woman. Look at those poor, poor children. How unfortunate it must be that they only have a mother. How terrible it must be not to know their father.
case worker		Mr. Stevens?
rick		I didn't mean it like that?
pregnant woman		No one ever does.
case worker		Mr. Stevens?
case worker		Mr. Stevens? I can see you now. RICK I'm sorry, I'm going to have to reschedule.
case worker		Excuse me?
rick		Responsibility calls.
nicholas		Please daddy? Please? Rick opens the book so all can see.
rick		Once upon a time...
nicholas		Daddy, I'm hungry.
nicholas		It's very, very empty.
phillip		Daddy, I'm thirsty. Rick takes a long look at his beer.
rick		Get your coats on.
kris		We're leaving guys.
clerk		Thirty-two hundred and fifty-six dollars.
older woman		Think it's bad now? Wait til they're teenagers.
rick		Mom, I have an idea, but I need your help.
rick		Put your checkbook away. What I need you can't buy.
mother		What do you need.
rick		For you to believe in me.
melanie		I know you.
cindy		Excuse me?
melanie		Rick's ex-wife?
cindy		And you are?
melanie		Can I ask you a question? What is Phillip's favorite color?
cindy		Huh?
melanie		Blue. His favorite color is blue. How many teeth has Kris lost?
cindy		I don't know. Why?
melanie		Four. Two on top and two on bottom. He got a quarter for the first one, fifty cents for the next two and he parlayed the last into an even dollar. Nicholas cries at night because he thinks the house is filled with ghosts. Kiss him once on the forehead, once on the cheek and sing The Cradle Will Rock and he'll sleep the whole night through. Kris' favorite subject is math. He loves to read and write, but he doesn't do so well in social studies. He knows how to ride a bike. Why? Because I taught him. Phillip wants to learn but he's always afraid he'll fall. Nicky just likes to Flintstone his tricycle. Phillip's favorite cartoon is Tunenami. 
cindy		What's your point?
melanie		I'm more their mom than you'll ever be.
cindy		So, why are you here with slick and not with "your" kids?
cindy		Yeah... yeah they do. Now if you'll excuse me I need to find the asparagus.  I couldn't do it, ya know?
melanie		Do what?
cindy		I always thought I wanted to be a parent, and I was really good at being pregnant, but I sucked as a mom. I know that now. I don't have what it takes. MELANIE I don't think I've ever felt as much pity for anyone as I do for you right now.
cindy		Take care of my boys... all of them.
rick		Well, guys, I guess this is it.
kris		We can do it daddy.
rick		Yes we can.
rick		Yes we can.
rick		What is it, Kris?
kris		Look daddy.
phillip		We can do it.
rick		 Yes we can.
rick		Kris!
kris		Hey!
boyfriend		What's wrong? What did I do?
melanie		Not you, it's me.
boyfriend		What then?
melanie		I'm sorry.
cut to:		EXT. GORGE PARK - DAY
rick		Put the stone down.
phillip		But...
rick		No buts: Put the stone down.
rick		I knew this was a hard climb, but... A RESTING CLIMBER appears.
resting climber		Long way up.
rick		Yeah.
resting climber		Long way down for that matter.
rick		That too.
rick		So, what's your point.
resting climber		No point, just an observation. Drink?
rick		I'm okay.
resting climber		For the boys.
nicholas		Daddy, I'm thirsty. Rick studies the climber for a moment.
rick		Go ahead.
resting climber		You know, if you stop here, halfway between a long way up and a long way down you really haven't accomplished much, have you?
rick		We're not stopping. We're just resting.
resting climber		That's what I said, fourteen years ago. Rick looks toward the top. RICK We can do this.
resting climber		Yes you can.
rick		We can do this!
prosecutor		What is so important Mr. Stevens that you would burden this court with convening today?
rick		I just needed clarification.
prosecutor		On what, Mr. Stevens? On what?
rick		I know if I have to, I can do this alone, but do I have to do this alone? A hushed MURMUR rises in the audience. The Judge RAPS his gavel on the bench.
judge		Order in this court! A beat as things quiet down.
rick		I don't know.
prosecutor		He doesn't know. He just doesn't know. RICK I don't know.
judge		Then this court sees no reason to amend the original verdict. The order stands.
rick		But...
prosecutor		Tell it to someone who cares, Mr. Stevens.
rick		I have. I have laid my heart out on the line time and time again, only to walk away empty handed. This love, this caring, this sharing of life, it's a sentence and my heart has been condemned. It doesn't matter who I've told, what's in my heart is never quite enough. The people I have cared for most have shunned me in life and in love. Unanswered phone calls... Unnoticed displays of affection... A rose that withers on the doorstep... No matter what I do, it's never enough. Just once, just one fucking time, I want to be enough.
prosecutor		Your only condemnation is self- pity. You have people that care all around you, but you're too blind to see them. If you don't pull yourself together soon, my friend, they soon will all be gone.
melanie		What do you want?
rick		I'm a proud man, sometimes foolish.
melanie		Go on.
rick		I have a long way to go before I could ever be the man you need me to be.
melanie		And?
rick		And I got confused between what I should have done and what I thought was right. MELANIE Yes you did.
rick		I put you on a pedestal and then I knocked you down. It wasn't fair.
melanie		Life's not fair Rick.
rick		You were more a mother to my boys than they have ever known. You were more a woman to me than I have ever deserved.
melanie		You're right.
rick		You're not going to make this easy, are you? MELANIE Cut the bullshit, Rick.
rick		 I can live my life alone. I can raise my kids alone. I can walk this path alone. I'd much rather do it with you.
melanie		I can't.
rick		Can't?
melanie		 I won't.
rick		I shouldn't have come here.
melanie		No, you shouldn't have.
melanie		You just don't get it do you?
rick		Get what?
melanie		You're here for you, you selfish prick.
kris		I could have looked sad.
phillip		I can look sad too.
kris		But I look sadder. NICHOLAS I sad.
phillip		Don't quit, daddy.
kris		Daddy doesn't quit.
cut to:		INT. NIGHT CLUB
john		You love her?
rick		I think so... I don't know.
john		If you think you're in love you are.
rick		I suppose I am.
john		Does your heart skip a beat when she walks by?
rick		She's my best friend... or was.
john		Does your heart skip a beat when she walks by?
rick		Yes. JOHN Do your palms sweat when you think about her?
rick		Yes.
john		Does she inspire you?
rick		With music and poetry.
john		And is there passion?
rick		There's fire.
john		And have you ever told her this? RICK She knows.
john		Have you ever told her this?
rick		No.
john		Don't you think you should?
rick		It only confuses things.
john		Loving your best friend confuses things? I can't think of a love more lucid. Rick stands to leave.
john		You know I'll never forgive you for this, don't you? You had the power and the dream at your fingertips and you're giving it all away.
rick		You didn't marry your best friend?
john		No. RICK I thought you had things all planned out.
john		Affairs of the heart and those of the mind are two different things.
rick		It's not too late, you know?
rick		Go Home, John. Go home and talk to your best friend the way you talk to me.
rick		I need you to watch the boys.
mother		But you're father...
father		Woman, enough.
mother		But...
father		No more excuses. It's time to live life and enjoy our grandkids.  Go. The boys will be fine.
mother		Can't we just give him money to pay for a baby-sitter?
melanie		 Oh shit.
customer		Whoa!
melanie		Sorry.
customer		Pay attention, would ya?
melanie		What do you want? RICK To talk.
melanie		I'm working.
rick		I know.
melanie		So, where are the boys?
rick		They're at my parents.
melanie		What? Not going to use them to try to persuade me with guilt?
rick		Is that what you thought?
melanie		I have a son of my own. I know when people are using their kids.
customer 2		Ma'am. RICK  Excuse us for a moment okay?
customer 2		I'd just like some coffee.
customer 2		 Excuse me, Miss?
rick		What is your problem?
customer 2		Cold.
rick		What?
customer 2		The coffee, it's cold.
rick		 Quit your bitching.
melanie		I can't believe you came here.
rick		I can't believe you're a waitress.
melanie		Beats chasing around after snot nosed brats all day.
rick		I thought you liked my kids.
melanie		I was talking about you. Melanie moves on. Rick gives chase. He catches her and spins her around spilling coffee all over the floor.
rick		I deserved that.
melanie		So, what do the kids need? A babysitter? A surrogate mom?
rick		This isn't about the kids.
melanie		Then what's it about?
rick		It's about me, the selfish prick.
melanie		About you? RICK Hear me out, okay?
melanie		 You have 15 seconds.
rick		Okay, okay.
melanie		Ten.
rick		Melanie, there is a grace about you that reminds me how clumsy I am. There is an honesty about you that reminds me how deceitful I can be. There is a beauty in your eyes that reminds me how ugly I've become. There is a kindness in your voice that contradicts my coarseness. There is a glow around you that illuminates my dullness. There is spirit in you that challenges my laziness, but most of all, there is a woman in you, that sparks my desire, a desire to be graceful and honest and beautiful and kind. A desire to be better than I am or ever thought I could be.
melanie		Go on.
rick		I think my ten seconds are up.
melanie		Who's counting?
customer 2		Miss... My coffee?
melanie		Get it yourself.
rick		I love you. MELANIE I don't think I heard you.
rick		If I give you my heart will you promise to treat it softly? Kiss it when it hurts? Put it in a box and know that it belongs to you?
melanie		That's not what you said.
rick		I said I love you.
melanie		As brutal as that can be?
rick		I love you. I love you, I love you, I love you.
melanie		I kind of like you too.
rick		Been waiting long?
melanie		I never thought you'd find me.
rick		I had to find me first. I hope you plan on walking, cause I'm not sure I can carry you.
melanie		So, how do we do this? The two begin the ascent together.
rick		One step at a time? MELANIE Side by side?
rick		Maybe you could carry me?
jailer		Getting out of here, huh?
rick		It's time to move on.
jailer		If you leave don't ever come back.
rick		Not even... JAILER Not even on a visit. You're a very ugly man. I'd hate to explain to the other guards why you'd come to visit me.
kris		Grandma?
mother		Yes, Kris?
kris		Grandma I love you.
phillip		I love her more.
nicholas		I love her the whole universe.
mother		I love you all the whole universe plus one.
melanie		So, this is where it all happened.
rick		It's funny, the tricks the mind can play on you... but the Judge, he sat right over there... and the jury sat right there... and the audience was filled with all these people who didn't really give a shit about me.
melanie		A bunch of innocent bystanders?
rick		And they all sat passing judgement on me, not knowing the situation, just staring over their schoolmarm spectacles and pointing their crooked fingers.
melanie		All the world's a stage.
rick		Always casting dispersions.
melanie		Did you hear that? RICK Hear what?
melanie		Nothing... nothing at all.
john		The secret of life, Melanie, is to always pay attention...
john		... always be prepared for what's right around the corner. The CRACK of the bat.
rick		Duck!
john		Huh?
****Dialogues from script :Dallas_Buyers_Club.txt****

ron		It's called a newspaper.     You heard of it?
ron		What a waste. All that fine Hollywood pussy on a guy who smokes his friends.
ron		C'mon Rog, this ain't the sandbox. Twenty's the minimum.
rog		Who the hell's Rock Hudson?
ron		Calm the nerves, brother.     You look great.
ron		It's your day, I can feel it.
ron		Eight seconds and you'll be gettin blown by a hundred dollar hooker before you can scrape the bullshit off your boots.
ron		C'mon! One one thousand, two one thousand, three one thousand... Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 3
ron		Ah hen shit!
ron		Hey, buddy I need you to arrest me.
tucker		Fuck off, Woodroof.
ron		Come on, man. I'm serious!
tucker		Looks like you got a few pissed off customers.
ron		You gonna cuff me or what?
tucker		Figure it out yourself.
tucker		You son of a bitch!
tucker		Get the fuck outta here before I arrest all of you.
ron		Gotta die from somethin'.
tucker		Handle your business, huh?    Get your shit together.
ron		You're startin' to sound like your ol' man. How's he doin' by the way?
tucker		 There's good days and bad.
ron		 Though I can't imagine how disappointed he must be havin' you for a son.
tucker		Get the fuck outta my car.
ron		 You rattled my fuckin' brain.
tucker		What brain? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 5
ron		That shit is purer than a preacher daughter's pussy.
clint		Not after you just coughed your lungs all over it.
ron		What do you wanna go work for a buncha sand niggas for?
ron		They got hot ladies over there?
ron		Now that takes me out right there.
foreman		Woodroof, there's been an accident on platform five. They need an electrician right away!
ron		Dumb spic.     How'd you get your leg in there?
ron		Where's the ambulance?
foreman		He's illegal.
ron		Go call `em.  Go FUCKING call `em.
ron		Alright we're going to get you outta there but you gotta stay still until I say get the fuck out and then you get the fuck out. Comprende? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 7
rick ferris		With the onset of HIV, however, we at Barrow Wilkem began a trial in which we administered AZT to infected lab animals. Initial findings suggested increased CD4 counts, restored T-cell immunity and also evidence of inducing weight gain.
sevard		Isn't it also true that it had some concerning side effects in animal tests, significantly decreasing the animals red and white blood cells?
rick ferris		Yes, but its effect on the virus is better than anything else that's been tested.
eve		 In 64, when AZT was developed for cancer treatment, it was shelved due to lack of anti cancer efficacy and toxicity. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 8
rick ferris		We believe those problems were dosage based.
eve		So you're conducting another animal study?
rick ferris		Actually the FDA has given us permission to go straight to human trials which is what brings me here today. We're conducting a double-blind, placebo- controlled randomized trial throughout the United States. Dallas Mercy is one of the proposed sites.
eve		How long do you see the study going on?
rick ferris		We're hoping to fast track it within a year? During which time the hospital and its administering physicians will be very well compensated for their efforts.
rick ferris		Sadly, the AIDS crisis will only get worse before it gets better. And I know I speak for everyone at Barrow Wilkem when I say getting this drug to market is our number one priority. This is a unique opportunity. A chance to be on the forefront in finding a cure.
eve		Does it not drive you just a little bit crazy when these guys stand up there talking about curing the sick while they're flashing gold Rolexes? What do they know about sick patients?
eve		Blood tests.
ron		What kinda blood tests, cause I don't use drugs.
eve		We didn't test you for drugs.
ron		Good, cause that ain't none of yer business anyway.
ron		Who you kidding, Rock cock sucking Hudson bullshit?!
ron		Homo? Homo? That's what you said, right? Shit. You gotta be kidding me.  I ain't no faggot, I don't even know any faggots, I'm a rodeo!
ron		Look at me, doc. Come on now, look at me. What do you see?
ron		What the fuck's a three-Cell?!
ron		Well surprise this: you've made a fuckin' mistake!
ron		You must've mixed my blood with some daisy puller or sumptin.
eve		We ran the blood test several times.
eve		That's some information on HIV and AIDS you may find informative and your test results.
ron		Thirty days?
ron		What is this shit?!
ron		I got a news flash for all y'all, there ain't nothin' out there that can kill Ron Woodroof in thirty days.
ron		Shit, you tell `em you got a cold and they'll give you two weeks off. You should try it.
ron		I mean I got a stupid cough and they tell me I got some HIV virus.
ron		 Hell, like I got the AIDS. Damn hospital, mixed up my blood samples.
ron		S'what I'm saying.
ron		Which is exactly why it's a mistake.
ron		You know me, T.   You fuckin' serious?
kelly		You said we would be dancin' by nine.
ron		I'll catch up with you.
ron		I'm cool.
nurse frazin		Dr. Sevard's not on today.
ron		Do I look like I can wait til tomorrow?
nurse frazin		If you'll tell me what the problem is --
ron		Problem? Which problem you want to hear about? My lungs bleeding, my skin crawling, the jackhammer in my head... hell that's just the beginning of my problems sweetheart.
eve		Mr. Woodroof?
ron		I don't want no nurse. I want a doctor. A goddamn doctor! Today! NOW!
eve		Fine.   How can I help you?
ron		Are you fuckin' deaf, lady? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 15
eve		No.   I'm a fucking doctor!
eve		If you want to discuss your list of problems, you can meet me in my office in twenty minutes.
ron		Twenty minutes?  I like your style, Doctor.
ron		Barrow Wilkem just released it for testing, right? This hospital is one of the sites.
ron		Well can I buy some?
eve		That isn't how it works. For about a year, a group of patients will either get the drug or a placebo, it's left up to chance, not even the doctors are allowed to know.
ron		You give dyin' people sugar pills?
eve		It's the only way to know if a drug works. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 16
ron		Can you get it for me?
eve		Unfortunately no. But when it's proven to work and if you fit the profile, then yes.
ron		So, you're tellin' me I'm as good as a horse being sold for dog food?
ron		Okay, what about in Germany, this Dextran Sulfate, or in France they got DDC, or AL 721 in Israel... I read that one is proven to work and it ain't toxic.
eve		None of those drugs have been approved by the FDA.
ron		Screw the FDA, I'm gonna be DOA. Do I have to sue this hospital to get me some medicine?
eve		Mr. Woodroof, I assure you that would be a waste of precious time.
ron		Call me Ron, will ya?
eve		There is a support group that meets every day at Draddy Auditorium, perhaps you could share your feelings and concerns...
ron		I'm dying and you're tellin' me to go get a hug from a bunch of faggots?
ron		Good night, good day, and good riddance.
ron		Neddie Jay, one shot of Cactus and a Rolling Rock back.
ron		I can't believe how much I missed your ugly faces. Clint, where you hangin' your pants lately brother?
clint		Get me another beer, will you sweetheart?
ron		`Fuck you say?
clint		I said grab me a cold one, cupcake.
ron		You askin' me to kick yer ass?
clint		Nah, wouldn't wanna get none of that faggot blood on me.
ron		 Where you goin', bud?   I thought you're my friend.
ron		Fuck all ya'll.
rick ferris		In short, I'm happy to say that help may finally be on the way.
effeminate man		It's okay brother. We're all getting --
ron		Tooth fairy, if we weren't in a public place right now, your teeth would be so far down your throat you'd be usin' your ass to chew food.
rick ferris		The FDA standard procedure to approve a new drug is eight to twelve years -
rick ferris		We are looking to fast track --
rick ferris		We're working closely with the FDA to make sure every effort is made--
rick ferris		It's both our job and the FDA's to make sure the drug is safe -
effeminate man		Is it true you can get it in Mexico?!
ron		 Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 19A
stripper		If you're not gonna look or buy a dance, you could at least tip me.
ron		I'll take a dance, but not fer me. Just shake it, he'll see you.
ron		Thanks.
ron		The hell you doin' here?
ron		Fuck you doin' in my house?
eve		 You missed your last trial appointment. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 22
rayon		Do you like this blouse?   Cause I think the neckline's too low.
eve		Rayon, the whole point of this study is to determine whether AZT is helping people.
rayon		Come on, Evie, you know there ain't no helpin' me.
eve		That doesn't mean I'm going to stop trying.
rayon		Why you so good to me?
hispanic orderly		There ain't no more, they started lockin' it up.
ron		I got more cash.
orderly		Here.   In Mexico. A doctor, he has some.
ron		What the hell is this bullshit? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 23
ron		Beautiful.
eve		You're in the hospital.
eve		You almost died.
ron		I'm sure that didn't surprise anyone.
ron		Was that a smile?
ron		Who said I was on AZT?
eve		Get some rest.
ron		Wait.   We were just gettin' somewhere.
rayon		I'm Rayon.
ron		Congratulations, fuck you and go back to your bed.
rayon		Relax, I don't bite.
rayon		I guess you're handsome in a Texas hick, white trash, dumb, kinda way.
ron		Get the fuck outta here, whatever you are.
rayon		Sticks and stones, cowboy.  You wanna play cards?
ron		 You got cash?
rayon		Full house. Jacks over threes.
ron		I'da figured you for queens.
rayon		Sorry darlin'.
rayon		Breath.   Relax.
rayon		Here, drink some water.
rayon		You gotta stay hydrated or your muscles will cramp.
rayon		You got nice feet.
ron		Jesus Christ, I'm straight, OK!
ron		Why the fuck you in here anyway?
rayon		The AZT trial. My friend is paying me to split my dose with him. That way we'll both get some.
ron		How much is he paying you?
rayon		Five grand.
ron		What?
rayon		I coulda charged him twenty.
ron		How about me? Will you sell me some?
rayon		Sorry, sweetie. I made a deal.
rayon		 Can you keep it down?
eve		Where are you going?
ron		I signed myself out.
eve		You're too sick to leave here.
ron		The worst-case scenario bein' what?
eve		We can keep you comfortable at least.
ron		Thanks, but I prefer to die with my boots on.
eve		As your doctor, I cannot recommend you to do this.
ron		Well as my doctor, can you get me some damn AZT?
ron		I still live here, you hear me?!    I fuckin' live here!! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 27
ron		Have fun, kids.     It's all yours.
ron		I'm lookin' for Dr. Vass.
ron		I'm lookin' for Vass, for some AZT.
vass		Who stacked those boxes there?  Check in with a nurse.
ron		 Doc, this place is a shit-hole.
ron		Why?   What'd you do?
ron		So cocaine gave me pneumonia?
ron		I thought AZT's supposed to help me.
ron		So medically speakin', I kicked my own ass! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 30
ron		Well?
ron		Am I still positive for HIV?
ron		If it sucks, I got it.
ron		And you can't buy them back in the U.S.?
ron		Chinks, homos and herbs, you got a new world order here, Vass. You could be makin' a fortune off this stuff.
border agent		Anything to declare.
ron		Nada.
richard barkley		I'm Richard Barkley from the Food and Drug Administration office.  Ron nods.   A beat.
richard barkley		You're a priest? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 33
richard barkley		You have over 2,000 pills here. You are only allowed to bring in a ninety day supply.
ron		Well as I told the gentlemen, I am a sick man. I have cancer. I take 22 pills a day and these here vials of Vitamin A, C, E and Zinc. That there is ninety days.
richard barkley		Vitamins?  You do realize that importing unapproved drugs for sale is a very serious offense?
ron		Well, as I said, they're not for sale. And they ain't illegal, just "unapproved."
richard barkley		If we find the slightest indication that you're selling these drugs for profit, you will be thrown in jail... Father.
ron		Then I promise to take each and every one of them pills myself. In fact this present detainment has already put me off schedule... Son.
ron		I'm looking for Dr. Eve Saks.
nurse frazin		She's not here today.
eve		It's open!
eve		Mr. Woodroof... Ron, I thought you were... Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 34
ron		 Dead? Sorry for bargin' in.
eve		What are you doing here?   You look great.
ron		Actually I look amazin'.   But you, you look like shit.
eve		What happened to you?
ron		So you got any music?   Or crackers?
eve		I'm sorry, but what is this?
ron		It's a celebration of how absolutely fuckin' wrong you were.
eve		Excuse me?
ron		Thirty days you said! Well here it is months later and I'm goin' like gangbusters. Now if that don't call for a little Cheez Whiz on a Ritz, I don't know what does!
eve		No.   Don't... I don't really eat here.
rayon		Them bastards Kentucky fried me.
ron		You women love Nancy Boys.
eve		 Tell me what's wrong.
ron		Hell, I'll tell you what's wrong, it's the goddamn AZT!
eve		What?
ron		It's killin' him, can't you see that? Why you think I look so healthy?
ron		Tinkerbell, how much cash you got?
eve		What the hell do you think you're doing?!
ron		Helpin' him, that's what.
eve		He's a participant in a clinical trial, we need to get him to the hospital!
ron		So they can fuck him up even worse?
eve		Are you out of your mind?!    If anything happens to him--
ron		Relax, it's just a little vitamin boost, A, C, zinc.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 36
eve		It's a blind study! We don't even know if he's getting AZT!
rayon		Everyone knows what they're gettin'. AZT tastes differently. I guess I got lucky and got the real thing.
ron		Yeah, real lucky.  I've got stuff here that works. Healthy, non-toxic. You should trial it and we'll both get rich.
eve		Leave, please!
ron		Tell your friends about me. Send `em my way and I'll hook `em up.
ron		And tell `em to bring their fuckin' money. Cash. No checks.
ron		Are you out of your fucking mind?!
eve		This man also had a transfusion?
nurse frazin		The AZT. We can tell who's on it by the symptoms. Most of them need new blood.
eve		 He's actually getting worse.
nurse frazin		So why are they stopping the trial?
eve		What do you mean?
nurse frazin		Barrow Wilkem, didn't you see the memo? They claim most people are feeling better and fewer people are dying.
eve		Really?
eve		Transfusions always makes patients feel better. Give the placebo patients new blood and they'll feel better too.
eve		I have questions about the drug's safety. I've seen it drop white blood cells in a lot of my patients making them more susceptible to infection.
eve		After six months?
eve		But we have no idea what the long term effects are. It's irresponsible.
eve		Can I see a copy of the study?
eve		A press release from the NIH?
ron		 Jesus Mother Mary Fuckin' Christ!
rayon		I was looking for you, Lonestar.
ron		I could of killed you!
rayon		I feel better! I wanted to thank you.
ron		Good for you. Now get the fuck out!
rayon		I need more of that cocktail shit you got!
ron		Listen Tinkerbell, unless you got cash or some new clients for me, I'm busy. Now get the f...
rayon		 Let's just do this quickly so I can get the fuck out!
rayon		You got enough for 20 of us?
rayon		You know what? You don't deserve our money, you homophobic asshole!
ron		Am I fuckin' dreamin'?
ron		Here's enough for 20, find me 20 more and I'll cut you in. Five percent.
rayon		Adios, cowboy. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 40
ron		What's wrong?
rayon		I can handle your insults, but five percent?
ron		Ten.
rayon		Twenty five, take it or leave it.
ron		Five grand worth of shit.   Shit I owe money on.
richard barkley		Father Woodroof. 90 days supply? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 40A
ron		I was just sharing.
richard barkley		 Listen, I know what the situation is. I know people are looking for solutions. But this is not the right one. This is dangerous. You can't sell drugs to people. Do you understand?
ron		Yeah, I understand.
rayon		You gotta be kidding me?!
ron		No, perfect place. We gotta lay low. Don't wanna get busted. I got a plan. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 41
rayon		This place is disgusting.    We need to disinfect.
ron		Do not use the word "we". Now you wanna put your apron on and fly around on your broom, be my guest.
ron		Howdy Counselor, welcome.
rayon		Hi, I'm Rayon.
ron		He's my partner.   Business partner.
ron		Your office's next door.
david wayne		Jesus, how many truck loads you bring back from Mexico? All for your own personal use?  Here's the paper work for your LLC. I don't even want to know what it's for.
ron		Don't worry, Counselor. I ain't selling drugs anymore.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 42
david wayne		You son of a bitch!
ron		Bitches. Plural. There's a bunch of faggots runnin' a hell of a club up in New York. That's where I got the idea.  Welcome to the Dallas Buyers Club.
news anchor		Barrow Wilkem announced today that AZT has been approved as the first drug to treat AIDS. At a cost of $10,000 per year per patient, AZT is the most expensive drug ever marketed. Barrow Wilkem stock jumped a whopping 12% today on the news.
rayon		 Roanie, we have two new customers.
ron		Bring 'em in and if you call me Roanie again...  ...I'ma use this gun to give you the sex change you been hopin' for.
ron		Ah shit, did I scare you? Sorry. Welcome to the Dallas Buyers Club.
michael		Rayon said you can get us some medicine.
ron		He told you how it works? Treatments and drugs are free, but the membership, 400$.
ron		 You'll have to sign a waiver. We take no responsibility for the drugs we give you. You croak, you croak. That's your problem.
michael		We have AZT, it helped Ian a little at first, but now he can't walk or think straight.
ron		First of all, flush that shit down the toilet. Secondly, stay away from anything that'll cook your insides. Third, get healthy and if your brain's broke, I got something called Peptide T that'll fix it. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 44
ron		Fill that there out and don't cheat on the drugs part. Can't help you if I don't know what you're doin'.
ron		I got more stuff comin' in about a week. Til then, watch what you eat and who you eat.
eve		He didn't call, leave a message?
nurse frazin		Nothing.  He did change his address recently.
ron		Never mind. I'll call back.   Thank you. Arigato.
eve		What are you doing here?
ron		I live here. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 45
eve		Where's Rayon?     You're roommates now?
ron		Not exactly. What are you doing here?
eve		Roger Thompson? This is my patient.        Are you treating these people?
ron		They're treatin' themselves.
eve		With what?
ron		Vitamins, Peptide T, DDC. Anything but that poison you're hawkin'.
ron		Do you ever wear any color?    Every time I see you I see white.
eve		Tell Rayon I was looking for him. And I'm telling my patients to stay away from here.
ron		Why? You wanna go grab a steak?     I know it's red but...
ron		This is the shit that'll rot your insides. What a surprise, FDA approved. What the fuck is potassium benzoate?
rayon		Preservative.
ron		You fuckin' kiddin' me?
ron		Don't pollute me with that processed crap. I'm eatin' healthy.
rayon		It's protein, it's good for you.
ron		Put it back.
rayon		You can't tell me what to do.
ron		Fine. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 47
rayon		Hi.
ron		This is Rayon.  He said hi to you.
ron		Shake his hand, T.J.
ron		Come on, buddy, what's your fuckin' problem?
ron		Good. Now get the fuck outta here and go back to your miserable life.
ron		What?
ron		Fifty bucks.  You don't got the money, you don't join the club. This ain't no charity.
ron		You need three hundred and fifty more.
denise		Beaumont Lab's delivery is here.    A woman says you were expecting her.
francine suskind		You can get it abroad but in the States, we can only use it for animal research. It's not classified as a drug so the FDA does not control it.
ron		I'm usin' it for memory loss.   You oughta try gettin' it to market.
francine suskind		It costs around 250 million dollars to get a drug to market. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 49
ron		Damn, bureaucracy is good business.
francine suskind		These are for your animal research.
ron		And these are for your daughter.
rayon		You're all packed, here's your ticket.
ron		 Jesus! Are you fuckin' high?
rayon		None of your business.
ron		Actually, it is if I can't fuckin' trust you.  Denise!
ron		You're in charge!
rayon		 No! You can trust me! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 50
ron		Make sure my new Caddy is at the airport for when I get back.
rayon		Got it.
ron		Denise, you hearin' this? Now you two monkeys take care of the zoo.
ron		 Keep an eye on him.
ron		That's me.
ron		What do you mean?
ron		Fourteen hours on a plane, but hey, who gives a shit, right?  Please understand. Japanese doctors will be the only ones who can make the purchase.  And as Ron's wheels turn...
ron		Yeah, I'm coming. Prepare the sedation. Propofol. 10 milligrams.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 52
tucker		Woodroof?
ron		That a party out there?
ron		Doc-tor Sevard!   You must be surprised to see me.
ron		 And I need to know what you're pumpin' into me here.
ron		What?   Get it out!
ron		I'm gonna sue you for attempted murder! Where's my stuff?
ron		Go to hell. I say what goes in my body, not you. Final. Period. End of story.
ron		This thing's an epidemic and you're still lookin for guinea pigs. Well do I look like a rodent to you?
richard barkley		Mr. Woodroof, we tolerate the Buyers Clubs. Now, every other organization in the country is dancing with us but for some reason, either you don't understand what we're saying or you just don't give a shit.
ron		That's right. I fooled you.   You told me I'd be dead in thirty days.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 54
ron		Now I'm through with you. You got anything to say, tell it to my real doctor, Dr. Saks.
rayon		I was so worried --
ron		 Where's my suitcase?
sevard		Mr. Woodroof, would you please get back in bed?
ron		Nope. And if you're gonna call an orderly on me, you'd better fuckin' do it, cuz this motherfucker is going home.
eve		He came in once for advice. I have no idea what he does outside of this hospital.
eve		 Actually, I've been reading about Buyers Clubs. They say they found other drugs that are eliminating symptoms. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 55-57
rayon		 This guy says the Florida Buyers Club is cheaper.
ron		Then tell him to move to the fuckin' sunshine state!
ron		 What do you mean you can't get it back?! It was authorized by a doctor!
ron		84               Then check China, Amsterdam and Israel               84 cause that's where I'm fuckin' goin'!
ron		I got first hand experience with all of 'em. And I'll tell you something else, if I don't know what somethin' is, or don't trust the white coat who's trying to sell it to me, I fed-ex it to my lab in Seattle and they test if for me.
ron		Then I test it all on myself before I give it to anyone else.  I'm my own lab rat.
ron		Compound Q. You know what happens if I come off it? My hair falls out, I lose weight, I can't get my dick up and I start to die. I got three hundred other people with the same experience.  DDC and DDI, both toxic, but in small doses, helps kick opportunistic infections.
eve		Ron, I respect that you're learning about your illness but some of these people should be in the hospital.
ron		All the hospital wants is to serve up AZT.
eve		AZT helps eradicate the virus. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 58A
ron		Fuck the virus, once you got that, you're married to it. I'm more concerned about my symptoms and survival. I mean, I'm no scientist but...
rayon		 You're not? 'Cause you sound so... scientific.
ron		You fuckin' high again?
rayon		 I dunno.
ron		Are you listenin' to what I'm sayin' here about usin' that shit?  And what the fuck did you do to my wall?!
rayon		It's cranberry mocha.     For the holidays.
ron		People can live with this thing for longer than they're saying. Ninety-six- percent of people diagnosed with AIDS in the U S of A will be dead in under six months.
eve		I know the statistics.
ron		Then use them. Why give people AZT when their immune system is broken? It's fuckin' toxic!
eve		If you're abusing it, like you did, with no medical surveillance, of course it is. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 58B
ron		Maybe I did abuse it, but I'm off it now, and I'm here, feeling good. And I'm not the only one.
ron		Why is Boy George's goddamned face everywhere in my room?
rayon		It's Marc Bolan, silly! Why don't you just get it over with and say it, you love it!
ron		 Take your sunflower and get out.
rayon		Fine!
ron		You know what, look at it, don't look at it, I don't give a shit.
ron		Don't touch!
ron		If you ain't doin' poppers and coke, how come you look like such shit?
ron		You pussy, stick it in. Who do you think is gonna do that when I ain't here?
ron		Rayon, I swear, God sure was dressin' the wrong doll when he blessed you with a pair of balls.  Give me that thing.
ron		You know it's one thing for me not to like you, but why don't you be a better friend to yourself?
rayon		If I really thought you were interested, I'd tell you.
ron		What are you doin' here?
david wayne		 You're being audited. The IRS.
ron		Nice work, fellas, great. This is how you got Al Capone, ain't it?
david wayne		Don't piss them off. If there's a fine, we'll pay it.
ron		A fine? Fine, alright, how much? Ten thousand? Twenty thousand? I'll write you a check right now.
ron		You think that will stop me, you motherfuckers!
rayon		Honey, you don't have a snowball's chance wearing that thing.
ron		Rayon, I don't need help gettin' ladies from your sorry ass.
rayon		Trailer trash and rodeo groupies do not count as ladies. Are you sure she said the word yes?
rayon		You got any flowers?
ron		It's the Wildflowers.   Texas style.
eve		They're beautiful. Thank you.    And I don't even have to water them.
ron		Thanks for coming.
ron		The IRS is on my ass.   I wonder who tipped them off? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 63
eve		You don't actually believe I would do that?
ron		Nah. But you gonna have to watch what you say when you're around that snake you work with. He's the virus I'm worried about. As a matter fact, if you hear of anything...
ron		Bring us your best bottle of Cabernet.
ron		Nice restaurant, beautiful woman. I feel like a human being again.  How come you ain't got no high powered corporate honey to take you dancin'?
eve		I don't dance.
ron		That's cause you don't got a honey.   How old are you anyway? Twenty two?
eve		Why are we here?
ron		To eat, drink, enjoy life, be merry...
eve		Yeah right.
ron		Take a break, relax, breathe, Saks.
ron		Normal people do that, ya know.
ron		So why'd you become a doctor?
eve		Because I was good in science. And my father said studying history was a waste of time. So I went to med school.
ron		Not what I thought you'd say but makes sense, your dad was a practical man.
eve		Yes, he was. Your turn. Why did you become... an electrician, right?
ron		Well my old man was an electrician. A good one too. But he was a better drinker. Which I learned from him as well.
ron		So I was around it a lot. Got pretty good at takin' shit apart, seein' how the insides worked, and then puttin' it back together. I was good at it and it put some change in my pocket.
eve		What about your mom? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 64A
ron		She was a painter, kind of a gypsy.     She got tired a' all the shit and left.     You know how it is.
eve		 She painted that, your mom?
ron		Don't feel like you gotta hang it.     I know you like everything perfect.
eve		I do not. I'll hang it. I'm going to hang it. It's just... are you sure you don't want to keep it?
ron		You need to enjoy your life, little lady. You only got one.
ron		I'm gonna kill him!
ron		We're running low on DDC and Peptide-T, I thought you were stocking this?
rayon		Sit down and shut up.
news anchor		New studies have proven that AZT is effective in stopping the progression of AIDS in asymptomatic cases. Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Health, announced that a trial had clearly shown that early AZT intervention will keep AIDS at bay. AZT is the only drug that has been shown in scientifically controlled trials to be safe and effective, Fauci contended.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 66
eve		I want all my HIV patients on the asymptomatic study to have their AZT doses lowered to the minimum, 600 milligrams.
ron		That's four pills, three times a day with food. The vitamins too.
ron		The hell's all this?
tucker		Sorry, Ron.  Gentlemen, I'm gonna need you all to leave the premises in an orderly fashion, please!
richard barkley		Mr. Woodroof, I have a court order permitting us to confiscate any and all non-FDA approved drugs or supplements.
ron		In other words, my entire inventory.
ron		Aloe vera! It's a plant. What do you give a shit if people eat plants?
richard barkley		It's improperly labeled. That's a violation of FDA regulations.
ron		It's a bullshit technicality and you know it!  Get my lawyer on the phone.
richard barkley		Our primary concern is preventing a market for illegal drugs.
ron		Illegal? Unapproved! These are vitamins and minerals, for Chrissake!
richard barkley		Vitamins and minerals that gave you a heart attack, remember?
ron		I'm not selling that stuff, you confiscated it, remember? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 68
ron		 'Cause Peptide T works for Alzheimers too, ya know?
ron		Come on, it's a protein! Effective with dementia which I have. Why don't you just look at my research?
richard barkley		Woodroof, I wouldn't want you to spend your last days in jail. If you have a product you'd like tested, fill out an application and go through the process.
ron		Don't threaten me! I'm unapproved motherfucker! The process? That's just FDA bullshit for pay up! 250 million worth!
richard barkley		You'll be receiving your fine for non compliance and improper labelling soon.
rayon		Your lawyer.
ron		These fuckers are comin' at me from all angles! I wanna file a restraining order!
ron		The Government and their fuckin' FDA!
ron		We gotta relocate!
eve		I don't need permission.    I'm their doctor.
eve		I'm not doing a study for people who are asymptomatic with a toxic drug that makes them sick. We don't treat people who have antibodies for pneumonia or chicken pox when they're healthy. Why should HIV be any different?
eve		Says who?     Barrow Wilkem?!
eve		Besides, I consulted with each of them individually, it was their decision.
frank young		...Americans with life-threatening illnesses will be permitted to import small quantities of unapproved drugs for their personal use. Under this arrangement, the drugs may only be purchased by individuals who have been prescribed the medication by a physician.
rayon		What the fuck does that mean?
ron		It means we were unapproved.    Now we're illegal!
ron		Let's get outta here.
ron		Send a round of beers over to my friends.
rayon		Save your money, we're broke.   Our credit cards are maxed.  Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 71
rayon		How bout that size?   Those would look good on me.
ron		You ain't gettin' tits, Rayon. Memberships are high and so is demand. So we recruit more members from where?
rayon		Support groups.
ron		Yep! I'm gotta find MDs to write them prescriptions so we can keep dealin' these drugs... legally now.
rayon		In the meantime we could try the bank?
ron		Oh yeah, Bonnie and Clyde comin' in for a loan. Stop starin' at her tits, you're startin' to look normal.
ron		This place is crap, I'll give you one fifty a month and fifty percent off your meds.
ian		Mr. Woodroof --
ron		Don't try to con me --
ian		We don't want money.
ron		What do you want?
ian		The house is free.   We want to help.
ron		Oh.   Well that's good news.
ron		Hello... Howdy...
ron		I got what you got and I have traveled the world looking for alternative medications, stuff not available yet in America, thanks to the good folks down at the FDA.
ron		Some of you may have heard of the Dallas Buyers Club, an organization I founded with my friend Rayon. Risk might be high, but what the hell, you're risking your life every time you go into one of them there hospitals.  I don't know where most of the people are who were at these meetings a year and a half ago... maybe they lost interest... maybe they're dead... but I'm here. I'm walking, talking, breathing... and ain't no one gonna take that away from me. I gotta life to lead.  A murmur travels through the audience as people listen.
ron		HIV don't mean shit. You ain't sick, you ain't sick. Period. You tell a guy he's got a week to live? Shit, he's already dead. You tell a guy he can keep on goin'? He'll find a way. Remember, ya ain't dyin'. But if you think you are then you ain't got nothing to lose.
rayon		Guess I didn't make the cut.
the man		You made that choice yourself.
rayon		It wasn't a choice, Dad.
rayon's father		What do you want, Raymond?
rayon		I'm fine, thanks.    And you?   Long time no see.
rayon's father		I suppose I should thank you for wearing men's clothes and not embarrassing me.
rayon		 Are you ashamed of me?   Because I never realized that.
rayon's father		 God help me.
rayon		He is helpin' you.   I got AIDS.
rayon		I'm sorry, dad. I found someone who's been helping me and now I'd like to help him.
rayon		God, when I meet you, I'm gonna look pretty if it's the last thing I do. I'll be a super model angel.
ron		What?   No, please, wait a minute, doc... Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 75
ron		All the MDs are fuckin' backpeddlin' on their heels. The FDA is scaring them with license revocation if they write scripts.
rayon		Maybe this will help.
ron		Where'd you get that?
ron		Did you sell your ass?
ron		Really, come on, where did you get it?
rayon		I sold my life insurance policy.
eve		What are you doing? Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 76
ron		Goin' to Mexico, chica, you comin'?
eve		Do I look like someone who takes vacations?
ron		Come on, tequila, sunshine, tacos, never hurt anybody.
ron		I knew you'd rain on my party, but I had to give it a shot.  Listen, I gotta ask you a favor. I need you to write me prescriptions so I can come across the border. I might not need it but if I do, I'll have them.
ron		You know this rule that the FDA just passed was just bullshit. Ain't no doc from here to the north pole will write them.
eve		I know and I can't either. I'm sorry. We can't write scripts for random people and random drugs. Plus what if something goes wrong with these drugs? We could get sued, lose our license.
ron		Okay!   Never hurts to ask.
ron		Keep it, nurse Ratched!
sunny		You need to go to the hospital.
sunny		That's it.      I'm driving you, right now.
rayon		Okay, okay. I'll go. Put me down.       Let me get some things first.
ron		Doesn't surprise me at all.
ron		The anti-fungal, right?   I read about this.
ron		As much I can carry.
ron		Hell Vass, I'm just tryin' to run a business.
nurse frazin		I took him off of it as you instructed. He's just on morphine now.
eve		Good. I'll be in my office.   Thanks for calling. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 79
ron		Yes sir.
ron		No shit? Well how's that for a coincidence?
ron		You said it.
ron		Can you prove they're not?
denise		Those are the emergencies.
ron		Where's Rayon?
denise		At the hospital. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 81
ron		Sevaaaaard!
nurse frazin		I need security up here, right away.
ron		Sevard!
ron		There you are, you son of a bitch.
ron		You killed him.
ron		You call yourself a doctor?   You are a murderer.
ron		Arrest me?  Did you hear that?
ron		First class everything, big house, Mercedes Benz. That's what they pay him to say it's OK to pump poison into y'all.
ron		Get away from me.   I got AIDS.   I'll spit on you.
denise		 From Austin. All on AZT. Their insurance is paying for the treatment and they don't know if they can afford to switch. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 83
ron		Hook `em up.
denise		We're pretty cash poor.
ron		Sell my car and make sure everyone gets what they need.
ron		Just dance.
ron		Anemia, Cancer, Bone Marrow depletion, Fever, Diarrhea, Vomiting, Neuropathy, Anxiety, Dizziness, Impotence, Hearing loss, Nervousness, Seizures... Sound like AIDS to you? That there comes inside a box of AZT, a list of side effects.
eve		Rayon was a drug addict! It wasn't a day on AZT that killed him, but the disease as a whole!
eve		Ron, you stole my prescription pad! So don't accuse me of acting irresponsibly! Rayon came to the hospital on his own... Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 83A
ron		 ... and got carried out in a trash bag three days later!
eve		 He was my friend too, you know!
ron		Let me ask you something. Let's say I have the cure right here in my back pocket. I could save everyone today.
ron		But I don't have no funding and I don't have no backing. Now how long is it gonna take before the FDA approves it?
ron		Read that and you tell me how wrong is too wrong?
david wayne		They shut her lab down. The FDA has shut all of our suppliers down, what can I tell you?
ron		If I don't get it by the end of the week I wanna file a lawsuit.
david wayne		Come on, Ron, we lost the restraining order, remember? We're in Texas. The court system is the last resort for you. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 85
ron		Well find a place where it's not, Goddamnit. Go to San Francisco, get a sissy judge, figure it out!
ron		Perfect.
eve		What's going on?
eve		What? This is crazy!   All these kids are HIV positive?
eve		Would you give this fifth of a dose to your own child?
ron		Here you go, please read this.
ron		I'm givin' people information... on this trial I'm in, right now. I want everyone here to know what's going on.
richard barkley		And what is going on?
ron		Why was Peptide T cut off? A non-toxic drug, that I have proof works and that according to the National Institute of Mental Health, is completely safe.
richard barkley		Mr. Woodroof, you are nothing but a common drug dealer--
ron		I'm a drug dealer? You're the drug dealer. The pharmaceutical companies are the drug dealers.
ron		The yellow number fives, red, green and purple dye you put in this here candy causes seven kinds a cancer.
ron		The aspartame in my diet coke, the steroids in my meat, the hormones in my milk, the antibiotics in the chicken. Now that's the shit the FDA knows will kill you. Yet you're all up there worried that some sick people will find somethin' without you and y'all won't get paid.  Ron throws the bag of jelly beans to the security man who catches it. And he leaves the room, squeaking away.
ron		Oh I'm bad, I'm nationwide!
eve		I won't.    You'll have to fire me.
eve		Y'all go fuck yourselves!
ron		One left.
eve		We're splitting that.
ron		That was a ballsy move!
ron		A nice, warm hug...  ...and a day of watchin' some bull ridin', that's what you need, doctor Woodroof's order.
ron		Don't you miss a regular life?
eve		Regular?     What's that?   Doesn't exist.
ron		Yeah, I guess.  I just want...
eve		What?
ron		... an ice-cold beer at Ruby's. Go dancin' with my woman. I want kids... thumb wrestle with my sons. I don't know. I got one life -- mine. But I want someone else's. I feel I'm fighting for a life I ain't got the time to live.
ron		I want it all to mean somethin'.
eve		It does. Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 89
tucker		I'll take care of this.
tucker		Ron! You are in the middle of the street. Do you understand what I'm sayin'?
tucker		Come on, man, let's go home.
tucker's father		Of course I remember you, trouble maker.
ron		I still am!
ron		I'm glad you're doin' better, sir.
tucker		I'm gonna talk with Ron a minute, pop.
tucker		Listen, the FDA is gonna bust you tomorrow.
ron		Thanks for the tip, Tuck.
tucker		I'll be there, man, and don't you fuckin' hit me again!
eve		 This is Fluconazole. It helps them with Thrush.
richard barkley		No one move. Put your hands in the air.
tucker		Ronald Woodroof?
tucker		I have a warrant for your arrest, a search warrant for the premises, and a court order to cease and desist business immediately.
richard barkley		Turn off that camera. Now!
richard barkley		 Please instruct the rest of these people to leave, now.
ron		I ain't no cop.    Why'nt you tell 'em?
ron		It's the bust of the century! Don't they look like hardened criminals?! Dallas Buyers Club / Green Revision / Dec 2, 2012 / P. 92
ron		Deadly drugs? What the fuck?
david wayne		They wrote the FDA's story.
ron		I can't believe it.   I tipped those assholes off.
david wayne		Don't worry. I got good news. I got you a change of venue for the Peptide T trial in San Francisco. And no surprise, they're not pressing charges.
david wayne		Then what the fuck am I doin' here?
david wayne		They're trying to break you, I don't know. Let's get out of here.
ron		 They'll never break me.
judge		The constitution, specifically the ninth amendment, does not state that you have the right to be mentally healthy or physically healthy. It does state that you have a right to chose your own medical care but that is interpreted as medical care that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
judge		Regarding the FDA, the court is highly disturbed by its bullying tactics and direct interference with a drug whose own agency has found to be non-toxic. The FDA was formed to protect people, not prevent them from getting help.
judge		The law does not seem to make much common sense. If a person has been found to be terminally ill they ought to be able to take just about any drug they feel will help... but that is not the law. Mr. Woodroof, there is not a person in this courtroom who is not moved to compassion by your plight, what is lacking here is the legal authority to intervene. I'm sorry. This case is hereby dismissed.
ron		Jesus Mother Mary Fucking Christ!
fade out.		 Fluconazole and Alpha Interferon are now FDA approved.  DDC was approved in 1992 but is no longer used due to its highly toxic effects.  Peptide T remains unapproved but still in studies for neurological diseases, like Alzheimer.  Today, it is had been   scientifically proven that HIV is the cause of AIDS. Based    on this knowledge, great strides have been made in treating   this infection with anti-HIV medications but a cure has yet to   be discovered.  The first studies with AZT as a single drug  while showing initial good results did not ultimately prove to be a long term solution for HIV treatment.  By 1996, medical researchers learned that HIV is best treated with a combination cocktail of at least three HIV medications. AZT was frequently used as a part of these early combination therapies. Today, AZT has been largely replaced by safer, new HIV medications.                                                     *
****Dialogues from script :Damned_United.txt****

revie		I'm just going to make a brief statement.
clough		 "And let me play among the stars.."
simon		When are we there?
clough		Any moment now. On the right.  "Let me see what spring is like..."
boy 1		There it is! Dad! There it is! The BOYS smile in excitement.
clough		 "..on Jupiter and Mars.."
boy 1		Where are you going? Dad? You've missed it.
clough		We've something else to do first. Won't take long. 
3		4   CON TINUE D:                                                   4 CLO UGH  "In other words, hold my hand. In other words, darling kiss me..."
mitchell		Today we welcome Brian Clough as he starts his new job as manager of Leeds United, taking over from Don Revie - the most successful manager in the club's history, under whom Leeds have won everything.. CLOUGH ..not QUITE everything. Not won the European Cup...
mitchell		...but pretty much everything else. Daunted?
clough		Daunted? Not at all, Austin. Looking forward to it.
mitchell		The biggest challenge of your life, and you'll be without Peter Taylor, for the first time. Your lifelong professional colleague.
clough		Yes, Pete's at Brighton now. He had the opportunity to come with me, but Brighton was his choice. Leeds was mine.
mitchell		A surprising choice, some might say. Because you've been very vocal in your criticism of them over the years.
clough		I have.
4		5    CON TINUE D:                                                5
mitchell		You've accused players of dirty tactics, cheating, dissent, foul play. You called Norman Hunter, Norman "Bites yer legs" Hunter, you've said Peter Lorimer falls when no one touches him...
clough		And I was right.
mitchell		I'm curious. Why do you now show such alacrity to joining them after such vituperative criticism of them for so long?
clough		Goodness, it's going to take me half an hour to explain all those words for a start.
clough		Football clubs are like families, footballers are sensitive people. I'd like to bring a little warmth into the set-up...
4a		5B   CON TINUE D:                                                     5B
mitchell		"That type of operation?" I presume you're referring to Don Revie..
clough		I am..
mitchell		..who has long been regarded as a father figure in Leeds. And now you're coming in as the outsider, the enemy even, after all the things you've said in public, coming in and taking ouver as STEPfather.
5		5D   CON TINUE D:                                                  5D
mitchell		Don't you expect some degree of resentment to this?
clough		I would accept and expect a strangeness, initially, it's   perfectly normal. But it won't be long   before they realise I'm a fair man.   A kind man. And maybe under me they   can experience what it's like to   be in a happy family, after all.
mitchell		How can you be sure they weren't happy with Don all along?
clough		They wouldn't have played football that way if they were happy.
jimmy gordon		Where have you been, boss?
jimmy		Directors have been waiting more than an hour. C'mon..
5a		7   CON TINUE D:                                                  7
6		7   CON TINUE D:                                                7
clough		Morning lads! Lovely Yorkshire weather!  I tell you makes me want to jump on a plane right back to Majorca!
jimmy		You're five days late!! And did you really need to say that about Majorca?  You know he was Revie's first choice for getting your job.
clough		Who? Johnny Giles?
jimmy		Club Captain. Don's son and heir. His first born. You're never going to get any love from him.
clough		Great. Here's to happy fucking families.
clough		Any chance of a cup of tea, duck?
jean		They're waiting for you. Upstairs.
clough		Who's that? JEAN The Directors.
clough		For me? Why?
jean		For the board meeting.
clough		Let them wait. Now, how about that cup of tea?
jean		Yours, Mr. Clough.
clough		Not mine. I didn't put it there, did I?
jean		Mr. Revie's. 
8		9    CON TINUE D:                                                 9
clough		Let's get rid of it then, shall we? Chairs, too. The whole bloody lot. Think it would be best if there were nothing of his left here.
jean		I was. For thirteen happy years.
clough		What's your name, pet?
jean		Jean, Sir. Jean Reid. CLOUGH In which case, no offence duck, but there's nothing I want typed on paper from you other than your resignation.
cussins		Come in, Brian.
9		10   CON TINUE D:                                                10
clough		What? No one going to offer me a drink? Like an undertakers in here.
cussins		Why did you do it?
clough		Do what?
bolton		The interview. For Yorkshire TV.
cussin		We've had a phone-call.
bolton		Not so much a phone-call. Bloody tirade.
cussins		From Don. They only went and rung him. And ran some of your quotes by him. About how unhappy the players were. What "bad champions". Looking for a response.
bolton		 Bloody got one, as well. He's gone berserk.
clough		He had it coming. He shouldn't have done that piece in the Mirror should he? Saying he thought I was a daft choice.
bolton		He's entitled to his opinions.
clough		And I'm entitled to mine.
cussins		 And I'm entitled to MINE.
10		10   CON TINUE D:                                                  10
clough		Thank you. I'm the best old one, too.
cussins		...I also did it under the assumption that you'd be coming here wanting the best for the club. For the city of Leeds. So why do I still get the feeling this is all about you and Don?
clough		Of course it's just about me and Don. Always has been. But instead of putting frowns on your foreheads, o ye elders of Leeds, in your blazers and brass fucking buttons, it should put big white Colgate smiles on your big white faces, because it means I won't sleep and won't eat until I take whatever that man's achieved and beaten it -- beaten it so I never have to hear the name "Don Fucking Revie" again -- beat it so the only name anyone sings in their Yorkshire ale houses, raising their stinking jars to their stinking mouths, is Brian Clough. Brian Clough uber fucking alles. Understand?
radio announcer		..Ladies and Gentlemen, the draw for the third round of the FA Cup will now commence..
clough		C'mon, Pete!
radio announcer		Derby County, second division.. CLOUGH Here we go. That's us..!
radio commentator		Against mighty Leeds United..!
clough		Leeds..!
taylor		Fucking hell..!
clough		Don Revie's Leeds! Top of Division One! Here we bloody come!
12		12   CON TINUE D:                                               12
uncle sam		I can hear the cash registers now!
clough		Happy days, Sir. Happy days. UNCLE SAM You're not wrong, Brian. Take the family out for a meal. Go to The Mumtaz. Tell `em I'm paying.
clough		Put the fish and chips in the bin. Tonight's on Uncle Sam. We're going posh. Chicken fucking bhuna in town. General excitement. Everyone starts putting on their coats.
clough		Right, you two, I want Billy Bremner and Johnny Giles to be able to read THAT...  And this woodwork has seen better days..
13		16   CON TINUE D:                                                   16
clough		Spick and span, understand? Wash these walls down. Give the floors a proper polish.
clough		I want it perfect. Like a fucking carpet. We've got proper footballers coming. Who know how to keep the ball on the deck.
groundsman		Well, you can't fucking train on it then.
clough		You know he'll be making a file on us. A dossier.
taylor		Who?
clough		Don Revie. Prepares a file on every game. Leaves nothing to chance. Knows every opponents formations. Strategies. Everything.
taylor		I've heard he's a superstitious twat.  Ey..! Help him, someone HELP him..!
clough		We grew up just a few streets apart, you know. In Middlesborough, close to Ayrsome Park. He'll have known my street, Valley Road - probably bought sweets from Garnetts Factory, where my dad worked.
taylor		Heard he wears the same suit to every game. His "lucky blue suit". 
13a		18   CON TINUE D:                                                  18 TAY LOR  And he doesn't care for ornamental birds. C'mon, who's covering him...!
14		18   CON TINUE D:                                               18
clough		The best manager in the country, Don Revie. Played for Sunderland, like me, as a centre-forward, like me, and England, like me.
taylor		 C'mon, give it and go!
clough		Peas in a pod, me and Don. Two peas in a fucking pod.
jimmy		They're here!  Well, almost..
clough		What are they doing?
jimmy		They've run out of petrol.
taylor		No, it's that superstition, isn't it? Every away cup ties, Revie makes them walk the last hundred yards. TAYLOR mutters under his breath, "Soppy twat".
clough		Welcome to Derby, Don. Pleasure to meet you. I'm Brian Clough.
16		24   CON TINUE D:                                               24
taylor		Referee..!
jimmy		Think, Alan! To feet!
taylor		Now sent it out wide!
16a		25   CON TINUE D:                                                  25
clough		Didn't say good-bye. Or pay me the respect of staying for a drink. Couldn't wait to get away.
taylor		Bloody cheats and all. Neither of those goals should have been allowed.
clough		Just going to have to beat them, Pete. Beat him it's the last thing I do.
taylor		We need to get into the same division first.
17		25   CON TINUE D:                                                   25
clough		We need someone with a good head. Experience.
taylor		I know. Our lot were like headless chickens out there today.
clough		First thing Monday morning, I want you to go and find me that player. A wise head.
clough		Right. Better go and make myself known. CLOUGH removes his jacket. JIMMY GORDON and CLOUGH's SONS watch as he walks out onto the training pitch...
clough		 All right, gentlemen, gather around, please.
18		27   CON TINUE D:                                                  27 CLO UGH  You lot may all be internationals and have won all the domestic honours there are to win under Don Revie, but as far as I'm concerned, the first thing you can do for me is to chuck all your medals and all your caps and all your pots and all your pans into the biggest fucking dustbin you can find because you've never won any of them fairly. You've done it all by bloody cheating.
giles		I don't know what you're talking about.
clough		But you do, though, "Bites yer Legs".
18a		27   CON TINUE D:                                               27
hunter		People kick me, I kick them back.
19		27   CON TINUE D:                                               27
clough		Not with me as manager. Do that on my watch, you'll be fined and stuck in the reserves.  Now let's start off by playing some seven-a-sides. PLAYERS stare at one another. Bristling. Disbelieving looks.
bremner		Don never did that.
clough		Well, I'm not Don. And from now on I never want to hear that man's name again. Ever. Next player who mentions it, or what he did or didn't bloody do in the good ol' days, will spend a week cleaning my boots.  Seven-a-side. Keep it nice and clean, and sensible. No fifty-fifty's. CLOUGH sees that one side is a man short..
20		27   CON TINUE D:                                                   27
hunter		What are you going to do about it? Book me?
bremner		 "Two hundred and fifty-one goals in two hundred and seventy-four starts."
jimmy		I've got what you were looking for.
21		28   CON TINUE D:                                                  28
clough		What about the petrol?
jimmy		In the boot of the car.
clough		Good lad.
clough		Stand back.
cussins		Everything all right?
clough		 Fine thank you, Mr. Cussins.
barbara		Not now, love - please?
clough		But it might be Pete.
barbara		 Of course it's Pete.
clough		But it might be important.  C'mon, eat your carrots. For your Mother.
taylor		You asked me to find a player with a good head. Experience.  I've found one! He's perfect. Dave Mackay.
clough		Dave Mackay?!? He's a hundred and fucking fifty.
taylor		I admit he's not young.
clough		Not young? He's old as fucking time!
taylor		But he's clever, keeps the ball well. And passes it better than anyone alive. 
23		33   CON TINUE D:                                                33
taylor		 He's the one, Brian.
clough		You sure?
taylor		Never been more sure of anything in my life.
clough		All right, I'll talk to Longson in the morning. TAYLOR We haven't got until morning. Hearts have already made him an offer. Want him as their manager. Apparently they've already agreed terms.
clough		Well, what did you fucking call me for then?
taylor		Because when I asked Bill Nick how done the deal was - he said ninety- nine per cent. CLOUGH's face.
clough		Meaning he hasn't signed.
taylor		Exactly.
barbara		All right, Brian. Enough. Come back now..
24		34   CON TINUE D:                                                    34
barbara		Brian..? Love..?
clough		Where would we play him?
taylor		In the middle of the park. Somewhere he can see everything, use his loaf, and tell the kids what to do.
clough		We'll play him as a sweeper, then.
taylor		 Aye.
clough		Won't have to run about too much. And what's all this I hear about a tie shop?
taylor		He's got a tie shop, hasn't he? In London. Which he spends two days a week at.
clough		Fucking tie shop?
24a		37   CON TINUE D:                                                  37
taylor		It's his "nest egg". For the future.
25		37   CON TINUE D:                                                   37
clough		No one's going to be wearing fucking ties in twenty years time.
clough		You know it's illegal. To sign someone on the sabbath.
taylor		Is it?  Then perhaps we should just shake on it today? And sign tomorrow?
clough		What? And let Hearts in again in the morning? Fuck off.  I'm not leaving here without a signature. CLOUGH and TAYLOR walk up the garden path..
taylor		Hey, you would never have FOUND him if it weren't for me.
clough		Good job we're both wearing ties.
26		38   CON TINUE D:                                                  38
mackay		Who the bloody hell are you?
clough		My name's Brian Clough, and I once had the pleasure of playing for England against you in an Under-23 match.
mackay		I remember you now. You had a black eye, a right bloody shiner.  And never stopped fucking talking! What are you doing here?
clough		Come to talk to you about the Promised Land, Dave. Land of Milk and Honey. It's a little place up the M1 called Derby.  May we come in?
uncle sam		Dave Mackay??
clough		You don't look happy, Uncle Sam.
uncle sam		I'm not. What were you thinking? Going over my head like that? Why didn't you call?
clough		Because you'd have said `no'.
27		39   CON TINUE D:                                               39
uncle sam		Bloody right I'd have said `no'. The man's bloody crocked.
clough		Pete reckons he's good for three more years.
uncle sam		Is he fuck. He's broken more bones than Evel Knievel.
clough		Trust me, Mr. Chairman. It's money well spent.
uncle sam		And who the FUCK are they? CLOUGH That'd be Messrs. McGovern and O'Hare.
uncle sam		 Where did they come from?
clough		My old stomping grounds. Hartlepools and Sunderland. Very reasonable, too.
uncle sam		That'd be MY club, Brian. MY club.
28		41   CON TINUE D:                                                41
clough		You're a genius, Pete. Bloody genius. How did you see it?
taylor		Dunno. It was just obvious. McGovern in midfield, Mackay at the back, O'Hare up front. The skewer isn't it? In the shish kebab.
clough		It's beautiful. A thing of fucking beauty!! CLOUGH grabs TAYLOR's head, kisses him. OVER THIS: we fade in the roar from the crowd...
29		46   CON TINUE D:                                                  46
clough		"Love and marriage, love and marriage, it's an institute you can't disparage.."
longson		All right, I admit it, I was wrong.
revie		..for Leeds to win the First Division title, and for me to be named as English Manager of the year...feels like a dream come true...
clough		You enjoy it, Don. Go home, put your feet up and fucking enjoy it. There's a good lad. Because we'll be in the First Division next season. And we're going to have you!
29a		46   CON TINUE D:                                              46
commentator's voice		The twin towers of Wembley Stadium, the cathedral of English football on a glorious late-summer's day... good afternoon everyone, it's the Charity Shield, the opening Saturday of the 1974 season, and a first chance to get a look at Brian Clough's Leeds...
journalist		Will you be supporting Leeds today, Don?
revie		You'd expect nothing less having been their manager for 13 years. But the fact is I'm here today as manager of England...
journalist		Do you have any advice to give your successor, Brian Clough, before his first game? A mischievous smile barely perceptible of REVIE's face..
revie		Win. The people of Leeds are used to winning.
clough		Right, the team for today is: Harvey in goal, Reaney, Cherry, Bremner, McQueen, Hunter, Lorimer, Clarke, Jordan, Giles, Gray.
31		49A   CON TINUE D:                                             49A
clough		Of course, it goes without saying I'd like you to continue as Club Captain.
bremner		Never got it.
commentator		Kevin Keegan goes to ground....rolling around on the pitch....that almost looked like Johnny Giles's fist made contact with Kevin Keegan's face...it was!...the referee's pulled out his book...now a fight has broken out!
clough		For fuck's sake.. COMMENTATOR  ...the referee is talking to his linesman..! He's sending them off! The referee is sending off both players..
clough		 Because losing wasn't enough, was it? You only had to be the first Englishman to be sent off at Wembley.
bremner		 Not fucking English.
clough		There I am making a big song and dance to the media about our new approach. Our new attitude. Our new ethics. And you turn the place into fucking Verdun. My CAPTAIN.
bremner		You can't do that! Mr. Revie always paid all our fines.
clough		Well he's not fucking here now, is he?
bremner		No, he's not.
clough		Right, last time there was a whole division between you and Leeds. Not now. Not today. Today we're here as Second Division champions, and equals with Leeds. John McGovern and Billy Bremner, EQUALS. Kevin Hector and Johnny Giles, EQUALS. Alan Hinton and Peter Lorimer, John O'Hare and Paul Madely. EQUALS. Now, c'mon, chins up. Chests out. We can take this fucking lot.
taylor		Arrogant twat..
clough		But he's right. Five nothing. They made us look like fools today. And what was John O'Hare doing? Letting Madeley bully him like that. 
35		61   CON TINUE D:                                                 61 CLO UGH  Push him around. Madeley's half his bloody size. O'Hare needs to toughen up. He's from Scottish dockyards, isn't he? And what about John McGovern? He was useless in the middle. Who's idea was that?
taylor		Yours.
clough		He was all over the place. Like the Wandering Jew. Giving the ball to anyone BUT his own. We need a ball player, a natural in midfield. Who'll hold onto it. Keep possession. We're giving it away too easily.
taylor		Someone like Colin Todd. CLOUGH  Oooh, now you're talking. Lovely pair of feet.
taylor		I've heard he wants out of Sunderland, too. They're all jumping ship up there.
clough		Well, go on then. Sign him. TAYLOR What? We can't. Longson's already told us. Club's in debt.
clough		Bollocks to that. I've not brought us all the way to the First Division just to sit there mid-table, and be cannon fodder for sides like Leeds. Sign the man.
taylor		Hang on, hang on, careful...
clough		I'll handle bloody Longson.
uncle sam		A hundred and seventy grand?!? For Colin fucking Todd?!?
clough		Correction, the ALMIGHTY Colin Todd. The best technical footballer in the country.
uncle sam		A salary of three hundred quid a week? You can't pay a footballer that!!
clough		That's the way things are going, Uncle Sam. Football's all about money now.
uncle sam		I told you never to go over my head again.
clough		Had no choice. Windows opened up. You were in the bloody West Indies.
uncle sam		WindowS? You mean there were others?!?
clough		Messrs. Gemmell and Hennessy.
uncle sam		 For fucks SAKE!
clough		Let me ask you a question, Uncle Sam. What did you come into football for?
uncle sam		To support the football club in MY HOME TOWN. The club I've supported ALL MY LIFE.
37		62   CON TINUE D:                                                  62
clough		Well, I'm sure we all admire your loyalty...
uncle sam		What I DIDN'T come into it for was to be lectured by a cocky little twat from the North East.
clough		But the way I see it, there's no point being in this game unless you want to beat the best, and be the best, and that's all the people of Derby want. To see their team on top of the tree, Derby, Derby Uber Alles, and if it's really their interest you have at heart, not just impressing your friends in the Director's box, I suggest you keep your eyes on your road haulage business, keep your opinions to yourself and start signing some fucking cheques, there's a good lad. Leave the running of this football club to the professionals.
uncle sam		But professionals DON'T run the club, Brian, the Chairman does. And if it's true, that football is all about money, and that's the way it's going, that's suits us Chairmen just fucking fine..because we're the ones who've got it. SAM LONGSON lights a cigar, and walks off.
clough		See they've driven all the way into the car park this time.
38		64   CON TINUE D:                                                  64
taylor		It's not a cup game, is it?
clough		You know what your job is today?
mcgovern		Yes, Boss. Stay in position. Keep the shape. "Stop being the Wandering Jew". CLOUGH Good lad. And enjoy it. You deserve to. You've worked hard this week.
clough		Good lad. He bullies you, you bully him back. And near post for the corners we worked on.
clough		Understand what I want from you today, son?
todd		 I should, Mr. Clough. It's simple enough.
39		65   CON TINUE D:                                                  65
clough		Go on, let's hear it.
todd		"To be Colin fucking Todd, the best technical footballer in the country."
clough		There, how could you forget that? Now come on..  Up and at `em!
40		67   CON TINUE D:                                                   67
clough		Congratulations, lads! Beautiful! That was as perfect a half of terrible football as I've ever seen. The plan you've obviously been hatching to get me the sack has worked a treat, so you deserve a little celebration...
mcgovern		No, Boss.
clough		Then why the fuck did you give it to their most dangerous player, Johnny fucking Giles?
mcgovern		I didn't see him.
clough		You want me to get the sack, Mr O'Hare?
clough		That open goal? Looked like a deliberate fucking miss to me. A miss to get your manager the sack.
todd		No.
41		67   CON TINUE D:                                                   67
clough		No what?
todd		No, Boss.
clough		The amount of bloody money I paid for you, I must have been out of my mind. You can't even keep on your feet.
todd		No, Boss.
clough		You've all done a terrific job of getting me the sack. So I'm not letting you out of here for the second half, until you've finished the bottle.
clough		Can't I? Just you fucking watch me!!
jimmy		You all right?
taylor		Yeah....fine.
41a		68   CON TINUE D:                                               68
jimmy		 Where's he gone now?
clough		And..?
taylor		2-1!!!
clough		Who scored?
taylor		O'Hare. A brace. Oh, Brian, you should have seen his first. Turns Bremner inside out, nutmegs Madeley for good measure. It was beautiful. You'd think he'd been born in Rio de Janeiro, not Aber-bloody-deen..
clough		They were just nervous. Shitting themselves. You could tell.
taylor		You're a bloody genius. I tell you what, Bri - if we can beat this lot, we can go all the way.
clough		Derby County winning the championship is a victory for decency, for honesty and for football. Because they don't pull shirts, or nudge people in the back in the box. 
44a		80   CON TINUE D:                                               80 CLO UGH  They don't protest every decision, chop, hack or bully - unlike some teams I could mention - beginning with the letter `L'..
revie		I haven't personally heard Mr. Clough's comments, but they have been reported to me, and our solicitors are looking into them. If I could offer Mr. Clough some advice ...I think he'd be better off keeping his opinions to himself...some of these allegations against Leeds United and his fellow professionals are an absolute disgrace...
45a		82   CON TINUE D:                                               82
clough		Suprised, David..but more than surprised, delighted. It's nice isn't it. For the good guys to win for once.
45aa		82   CON TINUE D:  I like a bit of the honesty, I like a bit of the truth. I accept without any shadow of a doubt that I talk too much, apart from on this show.
mohammed ali		..the world knows who I am. The world knows I talk a lot. 
taylor		Are you going to stop it?
clough		No, I want to fight him!
47		84   CON TINUE D:                                                  84
committee chairman		William Bremner, your conduct in the Charity Shield match was deplorable and cannot be tolerated.
clough		It was.
committee chairman		We understand Leeds are taking disciplinary action against you internally, however the Football Association has to be seen to make an example. We have therefore decided to impose a fine of five hundred pounds..
clough		Thank you.. COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ...and a suspension until September 30th...
clough		 What? September 30th? That's more than a month? Thats six bloody weeks??
committee chairman		I'll make it seven if you carry on with language like that..
clough		C'mon, double the fine. Treble it. Anything. Don't suspend him for that long. He's my Captain. The best player I've got.
48		85   CON TINUE D:                                                  85
clough		I suppose you've heard!
taylor		God...what time is it?
clough		Suspended for eleven bloody games!!
taylor		I know. You're buggered. Billy Bremner's the heart and soul of that team. CLOUGH Plus Mike Jones and Eddie Gray are injured.
taylor		Like I said. You're buggered.
clough		What do I do, Pete? I need new players. Tell me who to buy.
taylor		No, Brian.
clough		Help me. C'mon, we'll sort this place out together. You and me. Turn it around.
taylor		It's too late. I'd have helped you once. But not now. Not after what was said. We're on our own now. Each man for himself. Remember?
mackay		Well, look who it is! Come to raid my larder? Or just missing the place?
clough		McGovern and O'Hare. I've spoken to them on the phone. They want to come and play for me.
50		89   CON TINUE D:                                                   89
mackay		Aye, and you can have `em. A hundred and fifty thousand pound for the pair.
clough		Cheeky sod! They're not worth a penny more than seventy.
mackay		But you're desperate now, aren't you? Having lost to Stoke and Birmingham..  All, right, since it's you..I'll knock ten grand off.
clough		Give you a hundred grand.
mackay		One thirty. Final offer. CLOUGH is about to explode, then..
clough		All right. Done.
mackay		Two wins from two. What's not to enjoy? You? CLOUGH Loving it. Different class, Leeds. Proper club. BIG club.
mackay		Demand results there, though, Brian.
clough		Hey, it's `Boss' to you.
mackay		Not any more.
clough		I bought you when you were crocked, you fat bastard. And gave you the two best years of your career. It will always be `Boss' to you.
51		89   CON TINUE D:                                               89
mackay		Why would I do that?
clough		Exorcise the bloody place. Get rid of me.
mackay		Why? You're not here anymore, are you? Be a waste of a perfectly good desk.
clough		Fucking Scot.
jimmy		McGovern and O'Hare? Can't believe he actually sold them to you. It must be true, then.. CLOUGH What?
jimmy		The rumour that he's after buying Duncan Mackenzie. It's why he needs the money.
clough		Who's Duncan Mackenzie?
mcgovern		Because of the way we play.
53		95   CON TINUE D:                                                  95
clough		Because of the way we play!!!
clough		And you, Mr. Mackenzie, you scored twenty-eight goals last season. You'll score me twenty-nine goals this.
mackenzie		Yes, Mr. Clough.
clough		Do you know how many goals I scored before I got injured?
mackenzie		I'm sorry, Mr. Clough. I don't.
clough		Two hundred and fifty-one.
mackenzie		I'm sorry, Mr. Clough, I don't.
clough		Have a guess. Go on...
mackenzie		Three hundred?
54		95   CON TINUE D:                                                   95
clough		Two hundred and seventy-four! Now what do you think about that?
mackenzie		Is that a record, Mr. Clough?
clough		 `Course it's a bloody record.
clough		Need to know what they say about me. Who's making trouble. Who the ringleaders are.
mackenzie		Yes, Mr. Clough.
clough		Want you to help me clear this place out. Make it MY team, understand. OUR team. Clean it up and clear it out once and for all. MACKENZIE Yes, Mr. Clough.
clough		Now c'mon, drink up. We're off to meet the press.
mackenzie		Yes, Mr. Clough.
clough		And Duncan..?
mackenzie		Yes, Mr. Clough? 
55		95   CON TINUE D:                                                   95
clough		It's "Boss" from now on. There's a good lad.
mackenzie		Yes, Mr. Clough.
bremner		What the hell did you buy them for? Waste of bloody money.
clough		Duncan Mackenzie scored twenty-eight goals last season. John O'Hare and John McGovern are both internationals. GILES We've got two strikers, Alan Clarke and Mick Jones, they're internationals, too.
clough		And one's injured and the other's fucking suspended.
bremner		Maybe if you spent a little more time here on the training ground with us, you wouldn't need to buy Derby "rejects".  We've a game Saturday. Against Queens Park Rangers. Or had you forgotten?
56		97   CON TINUE D:                                                  97
clough		I haven't forgotten.
giles		Well, you haven't told us a single thing about how QPR will play. Mr Revie would have files and dossiers prepared. Had the reserves playing the Rangers way all week. Had the first team looking out for this and that.
clough		Bollocks to Mr. Revie! You're professional footballers. Stop Stan Bowles! That's all you need to know about QPR. And I don't have to justify myself to you. Not how or when I conduct training. Not who I buy or pick to play. GILES No. Not to us. But come Saturday afternoon, there'll be 40,000 people here who you DO have to justify yourself, to.
clough		Sorry, lads.
clough		Watching it all fall apart. It's Brian Clough.
revie		What?
clough		They won't play for me. Your boys. Your bastard sons. And never will.
revie		Are you drunk, man? It's two in the morning. What do you want? Why are you ringing me here?
clough		They're loyal to you. Thought you'd like to know that. Loyal to Big Daddy Don..
revie		For God's sake go to sleep. Where's you dignity, man? And don't call here again.
58		101   CON TINUE D:                                                 101
longson		Get me today's team sheet, will you?
clough		What's up, Uncle Sam? Bit below stairs for you here, isn't it? Taken a wrong turn somewhere?
longson		Just seen the team sheet. Hinton, O'Hare, Todd, Mackay.  That's our strongest side.
clough		Of course it's our strongest side. It's Leeds United. Would you prefer I sent out the apprentices?
longson		We're at Juventus mid-week. Semi-final of the European Cup. Biggest night in the club's history!! Couldn't you just field...
clough		What?
longson		Y'know...
clough		A weaker side? Am I hearing right? Is the CHAIRMAN of this football club seriously asking his manager to LOSE?
longson		You know what I mean..
clough		Against their biggest rivals? 
59		102   CON TINUE D:                                               102
longson		The Chairman of this football club is asking his manager to be pragmatic. Manage his resources. Prioritise. We've embarked on a huge program of refurbishment and improvements. New stands. Better floodlights. We need a good run in Europe to pay for it.
clough		I'm going to pretend I didn't hear a word of this.
longson		 We've still got twenty minutes before kick-off. I'd reconsider if I were you. I wouldn't want my employer to be unhappy..
clough		My employer?
longson		Chairman of Derby County. And Chairman LONG before you ever showed up.
clough		That's right. You were Chairman of Derby County before I came here. I remember that. When Derby County were at the fucking foot of the Second Division, when nobody had heard of them for twenty years and nobody had heard of Sam bloody Longson ever. Full stop. And that's where you'd still fucking be if it wasn't for me; at the foot of the bloody Second Division, where nobody remembered you and nobody had heard of you. There would BE no Derby County without me, no league title, no Champions of England; not without Brian Clough.
longson		I'm going to give you some good advice, Brian Clough. 
60		102   CON TINUE D:  No matter how good you think you are, or how clever, or how many fancy new friends you make on the telly, the reality of footballing life is this: the Chairman is the boss, then come the directors, then the secretary, then the fans, then the players, and finally, last of all, bottom-of-the- heap, lowest of the low, the one in the end we can all without, is the bloody manager.
taylor		What have you done now?
clough		You're a bloody disgrace! You should be in the book for that, Cherry!
61		104   CON TINUE D:                                                 104
bremner		 Good luck in Europe..
barbara		There's Dad, look!
62		107   CON TINUE D:                                                107
son		Wait..! Look..!
mcgovern		Billy Bremner, Boss.
63		109   CON TINUE D:                                                109
clough		Who else?
mcgovern		Norman Hunter.
clough		Who else?
mcgovern		Eddie Gray.
clough		Who else?
mcgovern		Peter Lorimer.
clough		What are they saying? This falls to MACKENZIE, who knocks back his drink. Trembling hands. Dutch courage.
mackenzie		That you're never here.  That you're just going to fill the place with more Derby players.
mcgovern		And that all thing's considered they were all a lot happier under... CLOUGH Under who?
64		109   CON TINUE D:                                                109
mcgovern		Yes, Boss.
clough		That he's the boss? The Guvnor? The Capi di Tutti Fucking Capi?
mcgovern		Yes, Boss.
clough		The bingo? MCGOVERN And the carpet bowls.
clough		Carpet bloody bowls?
mcgovern		It helps them relax before a game.
clough		What's all this? 
65		110   CON TINUE D:                                             110
jimmy		Club cars. Complimentary for the senior payers. Brand new.
clough		Nice to meet you, pet. Now, you can take your lovely sports cars, and put `em back on your transporter..
representative		What?
bremner		What are you talking about? These are ours! CLOUGH You'll have complimentary cars when you deserve a compliment. Right now you don't deserve a complimentary bicycle between you.
66		112   CON TINUE D:                                                  112
barbara		What are you doing here? Aren't you supposed to be in that hotel in Leeds?
clough		I couldn't stand it for another night.
barbara		What? So you drove all the way? What time will you have to get up in the morning...
clough		Half five.
barbara		Do I?
clough		Forgotten what a woman smells like.
barbara		Not like bloody men. That's for sure.
clough		You still awake? You should be asleep.
nigel		Tell us a joke, Dad?
67		114   CON TINUE D:                                               114
clough		A joke? All right. There's this bloke walking about in London, when all of a sudden, the city gets hit by a Russian `A' bomb. Booooooooom.
jimmy		The Chairman wants to see you. Said it was important. Right away.
67a		115   CON TINUE D:                                            115
bolton		About bloody time.
cussins		Where you been? I was about to send out a search party.
clough		Look, Mr. Cussins, I know it's not been the best of starts, but in my defence, there are a couple of things I'd like to say...
cussins		This is Martin Hughes. He runs Mercedes here in the North.
clough		 What?
cussins		We hear that's what you like to drive. A Mercedes?
clough		It's..what I used to drive at Derby. Yes.
cussins		Well, we can't have Leeds United being outdone by Derby County, can we? So Martin here is going to take you over to his showroom and get you sorted out.
69		116   CON TINUE D:                                                 116
bolton		Never come between a footballer and his motor!
clough		No.
bolton		Especially not Billy bloody Bremner.
cussins		Why? You look white as a ghost, man.
clough		Heart attack, eh?
taylor		Had it three weeks ago, they reckon.
70		118   CON TINUE D:  I told them the only thing they needed to know was that I share my professional life with Brian Clough. That seemed to satisfy them.
clough		We have. Longson's tried to put a gagging order on me, of course.  "Any further utterances in public or appearances in the media by Brian Clough will be met with instant dismissal." TAYLOR Well, I hope you take notice. And act accordingly.
clough		Would you like to hear my contrite reply?
taylor		 WHAT??!?
clough		What do you think?
taylor		I don't want to resign.
71		118    CON TINUE D:                                            118
clough		No. Nor do I. Don't worry, they'll never let us. We just won them the championship. But it will strengthen our position and force them to get rid of Longson.
taylor		What? Oh, no, Brian. They'll never do THAT. He's Chairman.
clough		I can't do it, Pete. I can't work with my hands tied, a Chairman telling me what I can or cannot do.
taylor		You're picking the wrong enemy. The enemy's not Longson. It's Revie. And your obsession with Leeds. CLOUGH Don't be daft. We won the league, Pete. We're top dogs in Derby now. And Longson can't stand it. That's the problem.
taylor		No, it's not. It's YOU. This monster in you. This mad ambition. It comes and goes. Sometimes it's good...a fire, that stirs everything up, and then there's this...this thing that takes you over...and destroys everything that is good in your life. TAYLOR's face...
clough		What are you doing? You weren't supposed to accept our resignations.
longson		`Shouldn't bloody well offer them, then.
clough		I only did because of HIM!  You can't get rid of us. It'd be a disaster for the club. For the whole of Derby.
longson		You can't keep shooting your mouth off the way you have been...or issuing these ultimatums..
clough		You can't do this! It's madness! LONGSON The decision stands. And don't even think of a settlement. You're getting nowt.
clough		We're going to create a footballing dynasty here. Derby could be one of the greats alongside United, Liverpool, Leeds..
longson		Car keys on the table and out!
73		119    CON TINUE D:                                            119
clough		Does none of you have the guts to stop this?
longson		Now! And don't show your faces here again!
jimmy		"To the directors of Derby County Football Club. We, the undersigned players, are unanimous in our support and respect for Mr. Clough and Mr. Taylor and ask that they be reinstated as manager and assistant manager of the club."
taylor		But not Dave Mackay.
75		122   CON TINUE D:                                                122
clough		What? Dave MACKAY?
taylor		It's in the evening paper.
clough		I signed that fat fuck - saved his professional life. Gave him two more years as a player, as my captain. Dave Mackay?  He wouldn't fucking DARE!
taylor		Why did you do it? I love this place, Brian. I'm happy here. So are you.
clough		It's not over yet, Pete. The lawyers are issuing a writ tomorrow. Against Longson. The players are calling a meeting. There's talk of them coming out on strike. There's protest marches scheduled for this week-end.
taylor		Why couldn't you just have kept your mouth shut? We'll never find anywhere like this again.
barbara		 Mike Bamber on the phone?
clough		Who's Mike Bamber??
taylor		Manager of Brighton and Hove Albion. Someone who wants to offer us a job. 
75a		122   CON TINUE D:                                         122
cussins		Players Lounge, Brian. Ten minutes.
cussins		This is the worst start to a season Leeds has had in twenty years. Four points from five games? Second from fucking bottom? What's going on? As far as I can I see, there's no relationship, no understanding between players and management. Not a healthy one, anyway.
bremner		Perhaps if Mr. Clough were to step outside, we would all feel a little more like speaking our minds.
clough		 You bastard.
78		126   CON TINUE D:                                                126
cussins		All right. If you wouldn't mind, Brian? Just for a minute or two?
clough		As you wish.
voice		What's going on?
clough		The last two words of every story ever written is what's going on. "The fucking end."
79		127   CON TINUE D:                                               127
clough		I'm about to go home and work out how much I want in severance pay. Don't worry, I'll make sure your job is safe.
jimmy		I'm not staying here without you. No bloody way.
clough		Then I suggest you go home and do the same.
clough		Come on.
clough		 "Oh, I don't like to be beside the seaside.."
79a		128   CON TINUE D:                                               128
taylor		C'mon, just give it a chance.
80		128   CON TINUE D:                                            128
clough		Brighton and Hove Albion? Have you seen where they are? Bottom of the third division.
taylor		And we can get them out of there. Like that. We did it with Hartlepools. We did it with Derby.
clough		We cared about Hartlepools and Derby. We're from the North, Pete. What do we care about Brighton? Bloody Southerners. Look where we are. We're almost in France.
taylor		Hey, they've got money, this lot. And ambition. And get a lungful of that air. It'd be good for my health.
clough		You can't manage a team that's not your own people. Not what you know. Anyway the Protest Movement in Derby is still in full flow. We could still get our jobs back.
taylor		No, we won't. It's over, Brian. They'll never take us back. Not now.
clough		What about proper clubs? Like Manchester United? Or Spurs? Or England, now Alf's gone. Wouldn't you fancy that?
taylor		No one's rung, have they? You've scared them all off.
clough		It's only been a couple of weeks.
taylor		C'mon. Just listen to them? Please? For me?
81		129   CON TINUE D:                                             129
bamber		Sign today, I'll give you a bonus of seven grand. Each.
taylor		Seven grand? Y'hear that, Brian?
bamber		Plus a salary that exceeds by twenty percent what Derby were paying you.
taylor		Very generous, Mike. Terrific.
clough		But those are first division wages.
bamber		First division's where I want this club to be. CLOUGH Are you sure you can afford it?
bamber		Are you sure you're worth it?
clough		Cheeky sod.
clough		Two weeks. Somewhere hot. On you.
bamber		I'll even throw in the bloody trunks.
archer		You're a hard man to find, Mr. Clough.
clough		Who's looking?
archer		My name's Keith Archer. Secretary of Leeds United football club.
taylor		Bloody hell. But we HATE Leeds.
clough		It's the top flight, Pete. The First Division.
taylor		But we've given Brighton our word. And they've paid us the money.
clough		We can pay BACK the money. Bollocks to bloody Brighton.  I'd go mad. We'd ALL go mad down there.
taylor		Please...give it a year. Give it a chance.
clough		A year? It'd be death. Death for us all.
taylor		Mike Bamber is a good man.. CLOUGH Oh, do me a favour..
taylor		He had faith in us, offered us a job when no one would.
clough		He offered us a job. And now someone else has offered us a better one..and not just anyone. The best team in the country. C'mon, Pete, you know what that means.. It'd be the Charity Shield at Wembley in a months time. The European Cup after..
taylor		Yes, but even if we won them it would always be Revie's achievements. HIS team.. 
83aaa		138   CON TINUE D:                                               138 TAY LOR  I can't do it. I gave Brighton my word.
83aa		138   CON TINUE D:                                           138
clough		What? And you'd sooner fester down there? With all those fucking Tories? In that blue-rinse retirement home by the sea?
taylor		Yes, Brighton is a small club..
clough		Fucking midgets.
taylor		But at least we'd be together, you and me. We could build them up. Make them our own. Like we did with Hartlepools. Like we did with Derby.
clough		And then what? Bottle again as soon as it comes to the big time. That's always been the trouble with you, Pete. No ambition.
taylor		And that's the trouble with you. Too much ambition. Too much greed. Too much everything.
clough		You knock it, but it's done you proud over the years. My "ambition". Without me - you'd still be stuck in Burton Albion. On the arse of the footballing earth. TAYLOR But without you I'd still have a job in Derby. A job and a home that I love.  ...you're nothing.
83ab		138   CON TINUE D:                                         138
clough		I'm nothing? I'm nothing?? Don't make me laugh? So what does that make you, Taylor? Something?? You're half of nothing!! Nothing's parasite! A big fat pilot fish that FEEDS on nothing!! A bloody nobody!! The forgotten man!! History's fucking afterthought!!
taylor		Well, let's see, shall we?
cussins		Let's be honest. It's not working, is it?
clough		What's not working? I haven't been here five minutes, so how can anything be working yet?
cussins		Still...the players aren't happy. We're not happy.
clough		So what do you want to do about it? CUSSINS If it's not working, then we'll have to part company.
clough		Fine. It'll cost you twenty-five grand.
cussins		What? For six weeks work?
clough		Plus three and a half grand for Jimmy Gordon. And an agreement that Leeds United will pay both our income taxes for the next three years.
cussins		That's bloody criminal.
clough		No, what's criminal, Mr. Cussins, is the way you as Chairman asked me to leave the room like that in front of the players. Your MANAGER. Going behind my back like that.
cussins		I admit, that was wrong.
87		140   CON TINUE D:                                                 140
clough		And you can throw in the Merc and all.
bolton		What?
clough		Might be a bit flash for a man out of a job, but the truth is, I've grown to like it.
cussins		Who the bloody hell do you think you are?
clough		Brian Clough. Brian Howard Clough.
cussins		Aye. No danger of me forgetting THAT name in a hurry.
mackenzie		Just wanted to say, it's not right. They should have given you more time. CLOUGH Good lad.
mackenzie		Not just me that feels that way, either.
clough		The sad thing is, it won't work. You can't change a manager like a pair of socks. It'll happen once, to me - and never again.
clough		No problem.
clough		What's this? We expecting guests?
89		144   CON TINUE D:                                               144
floor manager		Five, four, three.. The PRESENTER looks up..
mitchell		Good evening. Tonight the football world was stunned by the news that Brian Clough has been sacked as manager of Leeds United. We'll be talking not just to Brian Clough, but also to the man he replaced, who's success he couldn't emulate, Don Revie.
clough		Obviously, Austin, my initial reaction is one of shock at finding myself here with Revie...
revie		See? Not so easy to make accusations when it's to someone's face...
clough		...but in answer to your question, six weeks is hardly a long time to be given a chance in any job. I would hope Revie would get a lot longer time in his.
89a		144   CON TINUE D:                                            144
mitchell		Do you consider it was possible to step into your shoes, Don Revie? To replace you?
revie		Being very, very honest, I think it was a difficult job for anyone to do. But I do feel Brian Clough, I won't call him Clough because I won't take him down like that..
clough		Thank you.
90		144   CON TINUE D:                                                144
revie		...I do feel he made it harder for himself than he need have.
clough		How did I do that, Don?
revie		Shooting his mouth off about how dirty my players were.
clough		Well, you WERE dirty, Don!
revie		That's not true. The last four seasons, we've topped the charts for entertaining football.
clough		And before that, you also topped ALL the disciplinary charts. You should have been docked points and sent DOWN to the second Division.
mitchell		And in fact, you went on record and said so, Brian Clough. Again and again. That Leeds should, in fact, be relegated.
clough		And I was right.
mitchell		Do you think that might have hurt your chances of success when you then came to manage them?
revie		Of course it did! The things he said? Why, man? Why did you take the job in the first place?
clough		Because I thought it was the best job in the country.
revie		Of course it was the best job in the country.
clough		I was taking over the League Champions. 
90aa		144   CON TINUE D:                                           144
revie		You were. You were taking over the best bunch of players you'd ever seen.
90a		144   CON TINUE D:                                            144
clough		And I fancied winning the league, and winning Europe, and doing it better than you.
revie		There's no way you COULD win it better.
clough		But that's the only hope I've got.
revie		I only lost four matches..
clough		Well, I can only lose three.
revie		No, no, no, no. CLOUGH And still play attractive, clean football. Without cheating!
revie		See, there he goes again..
mitchell		Listening to you, I am struck that this is not just a business matter for you both. It's more than that. It's personal. Am I right?
clough		Well, we're very different people, Don and I. We have different styles. In football and in life. I'm a warm man. An idealist. I do believe in faeries, and that is my outlook. Don is different. There's a hardness to him. A hardness. Maybe he's not even aware of it. But he's a cold person.
revie		You don't KNOW me!
91		144   CON TINUE D:                                                144
clough		And that lack of warmth. That coldness was there. Permeated the club when I arrived.
revie		I totally refute that. The atmosphere at Leeds was like a family. A happy family. You ask any of my players. I signed most of them personally. Knew their backgrounds. Their parents. Their streets. I was a father to them. In that club every morning. Massaging those boys. Did you do that for them?
clough		They would never have let me.
revie		Did you try? You didn't even try. I soaped those boys down with my own hands. You just went to Leeds with no thought for the club, no thought for the players. Just on some kind of mad personal vendetta with me.
clough		Well are you surprised? What else was I going to do?? After what you did...
revie		What did I do?
clough		C'mon, Don. You know exactly. 
92		144   CON TINUE D:                                                144
revie		Never! Matter of principle! I always shake the other manager's hand!
clough		You shook Peter Taylor's hand, and my trainer, Jimmy Gordon's.
revie		Then I probably didn't see you!!
clough		No, you saw me Don. But considered me beneath you. Looked down on me. And dismissed me. Just like you did every other club and every other manager in the country.
93		144   CON TINUE D:                                                144
revie		Never would I knowingly refuse to shake a colleague's hand. The truth is, I probably just didn't know who you were.
clough		 "Didn't know who I was!" Pull the other one.
revie		It's the truth.
94		144   CON TINUE D:                                            144
clough		 Well, you certainly know it NOW.
revie		Oh, we ALL know it now.  We know you as the man who's constant outbursts, his defaming of fellow professionals, have brought this game, this beautiful game into disrepute. Who had one of the best jobs in the country, at Derby, and managed to get the sack. Who had one of the best partners in the game, in Peter Taylor, and threw him away. Who was given the greatest gift in British football Leeds United, a team that in ten years hasn't finished outside the top four, and took them to the bottom of the first division. Yes, it's fair to say we all know who you are now.
mitchell		OK, gentlemen, we're going to have to leave it there..
clough		Well, let's see where we are in a year's time, Donald Revie. REVIE Dear oh dear..
clough		Let's see where we both are in five!
austin mitchell		That's it for tonight's show. I'd like to thank Brian Clough and Don Revie for joining me...
revie		Thank you, Austin.
clough		Boys? Do you think your old man is a fool? SIMON/NIGEL No.
clough		You're wrong. He bloody is.
clough		Me, and all.
taylor		They've kicked you out, already?
clough		They have.
taylor		So how long was that?
clough		Forty-four days.
taylor		Impressive.
clough		Don't make this difficult for me, Pete...you know why I'm here...and I won't bloody grovel.
taylor		"I apologize unreservedly for being a twat".
97		149   CON TINUE D:                                                149
clough		I apologize for being a twat.
taylor		"Unreservedly."
clough		 Unreservedly...
taylor		"Because I can't do it without you."
clough		Because I can't do it without you.
taylor		"I'm nothing without you."
clough		I'm nothing without you.
taylor		"Please, please baby, take me back."
clough		Fuck off..!
taylor		You'll only fuck me up again, won't you?
clough		I love you, y'know.
taylor		I know. But it won't stop you.
clough		So? Would you sooner go through it all without me?
taylor		Never.
****Dialogues from script :Dances_with_Wolves.txt****

written by		 Michael Blake
may 23, 1989		Final Draft
pepper		Lieutenant... izat you?
pepper		What're you doing here lieutenant?
dunbar		This is where I belong... this is my outfit.
pepper		You went to hospital?
dunbar		It was no good... what's going on here?
pepper		Better come to cover lieutenant... those boys are shooters.
pepper		What's goin' on here... seems to be the question alright... you could ask the major but he don't know. He's busy tryin' to figger out how come the officer's mess run outta peach ice cream...
pepper		General's come up to see the show but all he knows is there ain't no show...
pepper		We started a balloon up but they shot her down fore she was ten feet off the ground... so nobody's made a run either way. It's been a stand- off all damn day... and now... the major, he's lookin' at the general and he's thinkin' I better do somethin', and you know what that means...
pepper		They're 'sposed to be beat up just like us but everybody knows that Tucker's men are tough as cobs. I sure don't wanna die out there with them cows.
pepper		Some of the boys are sayin' that if we ain't gonna fight we could just settle the whole business with a little high stakes poker. Wouldn't that be a sight... a bunch of fellas sittin' in the middle of this field drawin' cards...
ray		Tucker!
aide		What is it sir?
tide		Looks like a suicide.
confederate		Come on you son of a bitch -- you won't make it a second time...
dunbar		Alright by me.
dunbar		Forgive me Father.
dunbar		Don't take off my foot.
general tide		You rest easy son... you'll keep you're foot. As God is my judge, you'll keep it.
general tide		Bring up my ambulance...
aide		Sir?
general tide		Bring up my ambulance. And bring my surgeon with it. We've got an officer who's worth something lying here.
dunbar		Where can I find Major... Fambrough?
elgin		Turn right... all the way to the end of the hall.
dunbar		Sir?
fambrough		Lt. John J. Dunbar.
dunbar		Yes sir?
fambrough		Indian fighter, huh?
dunbar		Excuse me?
fambrough		 Your orders say you are to be posted on the frontier. The frontier is Indian country. I quickly deduced that you are an Indian fighter.
fambrough		I did not ascend to this position by being stupid.
dunbar		No sir.
fambrough		It says here you've been decorated.
dunbar		Yes sir.
fambrough		And they sent you out here to be posted?
dunbar		Actually sir, I'm here at my own request... I want to see the frontier.
fambrough		You want to see the frontier?
dunbar		Yes sir... before it's gone.
fambrough		Such a smart lad coming straight to me.
fambrough		Sir Knight, I am sending you on a knight's errand. You will report to Captain Cargill at the furthermost outpost of the realm... Fort Sedgewick.
fambrough		My personal seal will assure you safe passage through many miles of wild hostile country.
dunbar		I'm wondering sir, how will I be getting there?
fambrough		You think I don't know?
dunbar		No sir, it's just that I don't know.
fambrough		Hold your tongue.
fambrough		I'm in a generous mood and will grant your boon. You see that peasant... he calls himself Timmons... he leaves this very afternoon for your Fort Sedgewick. Ride with him if you like... he knows the way. That is all.
fambrough		I just pissed in my pants... and nobody can do anything about it.
fambrough		Noooo, noooo...
elgin		It's alright Major.
sergeant		Leave him alone lieutenant... he's cracked.
fambrough		Nooo, nooo...
elgin		Don't sergeant.
fambrough		Are you deaf fool. I said I'll have my crown this instant... this instant!
elgin		Let's have the pistol.
sergeant		 Don't do it.
fambrough		The king is dead... long live the king.
dunbar		How far do you make the fort?
timmons		Far.
dunbar		How far?
timmons		Forty or fifty miles, maybe... what's the big hurry on Sedgewick?
dunbar		It's going to be my post... my home.
timmons		You ain't hard to please, I'll say that.
timmons		Look yonder.
timmons		Somebody back east is sayin'... "why don't he write?" Stupid bastard.
cargill		Corporal Guest... Corporal Guest... Corporal Guest. Corporal Guest, you don't have to talk to me... just please come out.
cargill		It's the end... assemble the men in front of my quarters.
cargill		You hate me... but I feel none of the same for you... you men stayed. You stayed after they took all our horses. You stayed after all the others deserted. You stayed on the promise that the army would resupply us. I've looked for that wagon from Fort Hays just as you have... day after miserable day. All I can say is that I'm proud of you. Get your things men, we're leaving this place. The army... can go to hell.
dunbar		Timmons... Timmons.
dunbar		Timmons.
dunbar		Something's out there...
timmons		Somethin' dead.
dunbar		Might have a look.
timmons		Might stay clear of whatever did the killin'.
dunbar		How come we haven't seen any buffalo?
timmons		Can't figger the stinkin' buffalo. Sometimes you don't see 'em for days, sometimes they're thick as curls on a whore.
dunbar		What about Indians?
timmons		Goddamn Indians you'd jus' as soon not see, lessen the bastards're dead. Nothing but thieves and beggars.
timmons		Not what you'd call a going concern.
timmons		Ain't nothin' here lieutenant.
dunbar		Alright...lets unload the wagon.
timmons		What, and leave it all here?
dunbar		I'm staying too... we don't know what's happened.
timmons		There ain't nothin' here lieutenant.
dunbar		Not at the moment, no.
timmons		So things bein' the way they are we might as well turn around and get started back.
dunbar		This is my post...
timmons		This is my... are you crazy boy?
dunbar		This is my post! And these are the post's provisions. Now get your ass off that wagon and help me unload.
timmons		Well... I'll let 'em know where you are.
dunbar		Good.
timmons		Good luck lieutenant.
dunbar		Thank you.
dunbar		Damn... damn.
the toughest		Only a white man would make a fire for everyone to see.
toughest		Then go. I for one, will not debate the merit of a single line of smoke in my own country.
dunbar		You there!
ten bears		Kicking Bird has been keeping to himself these last few days. I do not like to see our medicine man walking so alone.
ten bears		What does his wife say?
pretty shield		He is keeping to himself.
pretty shield		That's what she says.
ten bears		Make sure that meat is soft... my teeth hurt.
ten bears		May I come in?
ten bears		No, no let him sit with me.
ten bears		Our country seems good this summer, but I have not been out to see it.
kicking bird		Yes... it is good. The grass is rich. The game is plenty and not running away.
ten bears		I am glad to hear it. But the buffalo are late. I always worry about the bellies of our children.
kicking bird		I was thinking of a dance.
ten bears		Yes, a dance is always a good idea. It would be good to have a strong sign.
kicking bird		Yes.
ten bears		There's a funny thing about signs. They are always flying in our faces. We know when they are bad or good but sometimes they are strange and there is no way to understand them. Sometimes they make people crazy but a smart man will take such a sign into himself and let it run around for two or three days. If he is still confused he will tell somebody. He might come to you or to me and tell it. A smart man always does that.
kicking bird		I have seen such a sign.
ten bears		Oh?
kicking bird		I saw a man, a white man.
ten bears		Just one?
kicking bird		Just one. He was naked.
ten bears		Are you sure it was a man?
kicking bird		I saw his sex.
ten bears		Did you speak to him?
kicking bird		No.
ten bears		We will council on this.
kicking bird		He might be a god or he might be a special chief -- that's why we are thinking of having a talk with him.
kicking bird		You are right, we need meat today and tomorrow. But we must also have meat in ten years.
kicking bird		But the whites are coming. Our friends the Shoshone and the Kiowa, even our enemies, agree on this -- the whites are coming. More than can be counted.
kicking bird		Wind In His Hair has spoken straight, his words are strong and I have heard them. It's true the whites are a poor race and it's hard to understand them. But when I see one white man alone, without fear in our country, I do not think he is lost. I think he may have medicine. I see someone who might speak for all the white people who are coming. I think this is a person with which treaties might be struck.
ten bears		It is easy to become confused by these questions. It is hard to know what to do. No man can tell another how he will be. But I know this... killing a white man is a delicate matter. If you kill one, more are sure to come. We should talk about this some more.
worm		Otter doesn't want to go.
otter		Maybe.
otter		Who gets the white god horse?
otter		I have him.
otter		I don't know. My arm doesn't work.
otter		It was your idea.
otter		 You're not hurt... I'm hurt.
worm		I will be when my father finds out, his bow will be across my back.
courier		The party that went against the Pawnee is coming in...
courier		There are many hearts on the ground.
dunbar		Wait...
dunbar		Wait... you're hurt.
dunbar		Let me help you.
dunbar		You're hurt... you need help.
dunbar		She's hurt.
kicking bird		The soldier did not come to fight -- he is going away and we will let him.
ten bears		I am in agreement with Kicking Bird. We will go down and talk to the white man and find out what kind of white man he is.
ten bears		I will not go... you will go... you and Kicking Bird. That is all I have to say.
dunbar		Welcome...  Come... please... sit down.
dunbar		Would you like some coffee? Coffee?
dunbar		I'll get some cups.
dunbar		Is the coffee not good? Too strong maybe? Here...
dunbar		 Do you want some?
dunbar		So what are you guys doing? Looking for buffalo?
dunbar		He's a good one... good horse. My horse.
dunbar		Good horse.
dunbar		My horse. You see any buffalo?
dunbar		Wait just a bit.
kicking bird		Buffalo.
dunbar		 Buffalo?
kicking bird		 Buffalo.
dunbar		 Buffalo.
dunbar		Buffalo.
kicking bird		Have you seen any buffalo?
dunbar		No, I haven't seen any buffalo. Are you hungry? I have food... are you hungry?
escort 1		He waved.
kicking bird		We will talk awhile.
kicking bird		Your wounds are healing well?
kicking bird		You are happy here, with my family?
kicking bird		Perhaps you will marry again when the time is right.
kicking bird		We have word from many places that the whites are...
kicking bird		They are coming into everyone's country. They will soon be in ours I think. This white man who lives at the old soldier fort, the one who calls himself loo ten tant... I have visited him and I believe his heart is a good one. He knows things about the whites which we do not.
kicking bird		He is only one man.
kicking bird		Every warrior in camp would fight them if they tried.
kicking bird		I cannot make the white man talk. Loo ten tant does not know Sioux.
kicking bird		You have a certain medicine which no other Sioux -- man or woman -- has.
kicking bird		I do not ask this for myself... I ask this for all our people.
kicking bird		I want you to try and remember the the word.
kicking bird		You don't want to know.
black shawl		Will she make the white words?
kicking bird		Perhaps I am asking too much.
voice		Christine...
christine		I'm right here mother...
mother		Get inside both of you.
christine		Why?
mother		Just do what I... oh God! Stay where you are. Keep down do you hear me?
christine		Who is it Willie?
willie		They look like Pawnee... my father and your father are talking to them.
willie		Run Christine...
christine		Why?
willie		Just run!
willie		Run!
christine		Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the lord my soul to keep. If I die before I wake, I pray the lord my soul to take.
dunbar		Buffalo...
dunbar		Buffalo...  Buffalo.
kicking bird		Buffalo?
dunbar		Yes. Buffalo.
kicking bird		The buffalo have come.
christine		Help...
christine		 Please... I need to get out.
dunbar		I wish I knew what to say.
dunbar		Thank you.
dunbar		Look I'm full... I can't tell the story again.
dunbar		Go ahead.
dunbar		 You want to try... put it on.
dunbar		Here.
dunbar		This is too much... I can't take this...
dunbar		I can't... No more...
dunbar		I can't, I'm full... very full...
dunbar		That's my hat.
dunbar		My hat.
big warrior		I found it on the prairie. It's mine.
big warrior		He left it on the prairie. He didn't want it.
dunbar		Yes, it's good. But, I have to sleep.
kicking bird		Where is loo ten tant?
kicking bird		Does it scratch the skin?
dunbar		They asked me to dance...
dunbar		I was just dancing...
dunbar		Go home.
dunbar		Damn him.
dunbar		C'mon Two Socks... you can't go... so go home.
dunbar		Alright then, don't go home. But stay... stay right here.
dunbar		You go home.
stone calf		You were right about loo ten tant -- he is a special white man.
kicking bird		Yes, he is special... he should have a real name.
kicking bird		I know.
kicking bird		We were waiting for you.
kicking bird		 Welcome. It is good that you are here.
dunbar		Thank you... I feel good.
kicking bird		Ask him why he is at the soldier fort.
dunbar		Wait... what is your name?
kicking bird		What does he say?
kicking bird		Ahhh... He's right. I'm sorry.
dunbar		Kick?
dunbar		Kicking?
dunbar		 What does he... is he a chief?
dunbar		Oh... 
dunbar		 Your name... you.
dunbar		Up? Get up?
dunbar		Stand.
dunbar		Stands With A...
dunbar		Fist?
dunbar		Stands With A Fist. I'm John... John Dunbar.
dunbar		Yes.
dunbar		I'm glad to see you... please sit.
dunbar		They are Sioux enemies.
dunbar		I asked that he would think about my going.
dunbar		Then tell him this. I have been a warrior for longer than many of the young men that will go on this war party. Tell him.
dunbar		I know, I understand. But I cannot learn these ways in camp.
dunbar		I will be happy to watch over your family.
dunbar		Who is Dances With Wolves?
dunbar		Dances With Wolves... that's right.  How do you say it?
dunbar		 Dances With Wolves.
kicking bird		 Keep on with the white man talk if it pleases you.
little boy		What are you doing here?
little boy		I'm hungry.
black shawl		How is Dances With Wolves?
black shawl		How is he learning?
black shawl		You are not talking today?
stone calf		Some of your words are wrong... but you are learning fast. That is good. What can I tell you today?
stone calf		What is your question?
stone calf		She is in mourning.
stone calf		She is crying for someone.
stone calf		It is not polite to speak of the dead... But I will tell you... you are new. She cries for her husband. He was killed not long ago.
stone calf		It is Kicking Bird's place to say when she is finished.
black shawl		People are talking about you...
black shawl		They are proud of the medicine you are making with Dances With Wolves.
black shawl		You can't, he is gone.
worm		We got a snake.
otter		We're gonna see if it can swim the river. You wanna come?
stone calf		The Pawnee do not come for horses, they come for blood... and with many men gone, we are few.
stone calf		Get your weapons and come to my lodge.
ten bears		No, the ride is long... the weather is bad. We can spare no men.
ten bears		Take one man and go quickly.
ten bears		Hear us now.  A white soldier with many far-shooting guns... how would he fight the Pawnee?
ten bears		Dances With Wolves has not finished.
ten bears		I am of the same mind as Dances With Wolves... we should kill so many that they never trouble us again.
sioux 1		I killed this one.
sioux 2		This one still breathes.
black shawl		How long will Stands With A Fist mourn?
kicking bird		I don't know.
black shawl		I hope it will not be too long.
kicking bird		Something has happened? Well what?
black shawl		She has found love again.
kicking bird		With who?
black shawl		Dances With Wolves.
kicking bird		Are you certain of this?
black shawl		When you see them together you will know.
kicking bird		What are people saying? They're not angry?
black shawl		No. They like the match. It makes sense. They are both white.
kicking bird		I suppose I will be the one to say something.
black shawl		She's your daughter now.
black shawl		You can't see everything coming.
kicking bird		Stands With A Fist.
kicking bird		You are no longer a widow.
kicking bird		This is a good day for me.
kicking bird		Stands With A Fist... if you want this man, take his hand in yours.
kicking bird		Have you heard all that I have said?
kicking bird		Good, then take her inside... she is your wife.
worm		Dances With Wolves' door is closed alot these days.
otter		I know that.
worm		Maybe they're having a hard time. Some people have a hard time.
otter		Me neither.
otter		Maybe we should pull the smoke flap closed. Then they would come out.
kicking bird		Dances With Wolves, are you in there?
kicking bird		I am riding today to a far away place. It is a place I haven't seen for a long time. A sacred place. I would like you to come with me.
kicking bird		Yes it must be.
kicking bird		No waiting?
kicking bird		I was just thinking that of all the trails in this life, there is one that matters more than all the others. It is the trail of a true human being. I think you are on this trail and it is good to see.
kicking bird		It is said that all the animals were born here... that from here they spread over the prairies to feed all the people. Even our enemies say this is a sacred place.
kicking bird		No, they've been gone a week maybe more... we will water the horses and go home.
kicking bird		Help me to know how many.
ten bears		It's hard to know what to do.
ten bears		The men who wore this came in the time of my grandfather's grandfather. Eventually, we drove them out. Then the Mexicans came. In my own time the whites came... the Texans. They have been like all the others who find something they want in our country. They take it without asking. I have always been a peaceful man, happy to be in my own country and wanting nothing from the white people. Nothing at all. But I think you are right. I think they will keep coming. When I think of that, I look at this bundle. Our country is all that we want. We will fight to keep it.
ten bears		Tomorrow morning we will strike the village and go to the winter camp.
kicking bird		We cannot wait for you.
kicking bird		Something has happened... Dances With Wolves is not coming.
kicking bird		Pick two good men with fast ponies and send them back to the soldier fort.
bauer		Spivey...
spivey		Yessir sergeant...
sergeant bauer		Tell the major he's wakin' up... and move your worthless ass.
sergeant bauer		Got yourself a helluva shiner, didn't ya?
major		Does he speak english?
sergeant bauer		Don't know sir... you speak english? Talk english?  Talk?
major		Who are you?
major		Why are you dressed like this?
elgin		You have proof of that?
elgin		Spivey, you and Edwards were here first. Did you find anything... a journal.
spivey		We didn't see nothin' sir.
elgin		Where's Edwards?
spivey		He's outside. But he didn't see nothin' either.
sergeant bauer		You turned Injun, din'cha?
sergeant bauer		Din'cha?
elgin		What is your name?
elgin		You say you are an officer?
elgin		No.
elgin		There are no orders and there is no journal.
elgin		Why are you out of uniform?
guard		Here you... eyes front.
elgin		Why are you out of uniform?
bauer		Lieutenant's askin' the questions here.
elgin		We are charged with apprehending hostiles, recovering stolen property and retrieving white captives taken in hostile raidings.
major		We will ascertain that for ourselves. Now if you guide us to these camps and serve as an interpreter, your conduct will be reevaluated.
major		Your status as a traitor might improve should you choose to cooperate with the United States Army.
elgin		Are you willing to cooperate or not?
major		Well, speak up...
major		What's that?
elgin		Sergeant... have a detail take him down to the river... let him clean up his face.
spivey		What's it to you?
crapper		Well gimme some shitbird.
spivey		Can you read?
crapper		Naw, I can't read. What the hell do you care... you can't either.
spivey		Alright... hold your horses.
sergeant bauer		Lap it up Injun.
sergeant bauer		Go on ahead Injun... You'll just get hungrier is all... but mebbe that don't matter. Word is they're gonna ship you back to Hays. And they'll hang you once you get there.
spivey		I don't see nobody.
spivey		Lookit the stupid bastard... he ain't even runnin'.
bauer		Don't shoot, I seen 'em first... it's my shot.
driver		It's my shot goddamit.
spivey		You dumb sons a bitches.
bauer		He mighta killed you.
soldier 1		I got him...
soldier 2		The hell you did...
soldier 1		I got him... dead shot boys.
spivey		You want more?... get up... get up.
elgin		Spivey!
elgin		I see you bash the prisoner once more and I'll put those shackles on you...
elgin		You men! Get back to your places.
soldier		All clear lieutenant...
ten bears		 Dances With Wolves is quiet these days.
ten bears		Is his heart bad?
ten bears		Quiet!... sit down Wind In His Hair. You are hurting an old man's ears with your loud talk.
ten bears		Ahh... this is a nice fire... at my age a good fire is better than anything.
ten bears		I wondered how your bad heart was doing and though I would come by and see for myself. This place doesn't look so bad-hearted.
ten bears		But you are leaving anyway?
ten bears		Have you told this to Kicking Bird or to Wind In His Hair.
ten bears		You are the only white man I have ever known. I have thought about you alot. More than you know.
ten bears		You have always spoken with your heart. And like all of us, you are a free man and can do anything you like. When I look across this fire, I do not see a white soldier. I see only a Sioux named Dances With Wolves. And there is nothing they hate so much as a Sioux.
ten bears		You are making a pipe?
ten bears		This might be a pretty good pipe... how does it smoke?
ten bears		Let's smoke it awhile... it is good to pass the time this way.
kicking bird		You've finished your pipe? How does it smoke?
kicking bird		It doesn't seem possible that we could come this far.
****Dialogues from script :Dark_City.txt****

dark city		 by Alex Proyas
revised draft		November 29th, 1992
darkness		 A LOW RUMBLE increases in volume.
white		What?
white		What?  I...  How long have I been here?
bumstead		I know, sir, but I can't make it at nine-thirty...  It's  -  um  -  well, inconvenient...
bumstead		Yes, sir...  I understand...  Yes... But, I've done fine so far without an assistant...
bumstead		But...  But I...  I...  Nine-thirty.  Yes.
mystery man		You are lost, yes?
mystery man		Co-operate.  Do not make this difficult.
mystery man		You will not shoot, yes.  There is a place in your mind, a corner of darkness...
bumstead		Good evening, sir.
stromboli		Yes.  This way.
mortician		Welcome, gentlemen.  Youre early. Here for the examination, right?
stromboli		The handiwork of an extremely sick individual.
stromboli		Youve read the reports.  Not much to go on.  We know nothing about him, except that he likes to cut them... Always the same type of blade. Forensics match in each case... Anyway, it's all in the reports, read them for yourself.
stromboli		Why are you wearing that thing on your face?
bumstead		Germs, sir.  These places are full of them.
stromboli		I see.  One things for sure, hes ambitious. Youll be a busy man from now on.
mortician		You can say that again.
bumstead		What about Thompson, sir?  Wasnt this his case?
stromboli		Thompson suffered a kind of severe delusion or some damn thing.  Anyway he isnt with us any longer.  The case is yours.  Go through his files. Take what you need.  By the way, hows your mother?
bumstead		Shes getting better, thanks.  She...
stromboli		Lets go, Bumstead.  So much to do and so little time.
figure 1		We are looking for Jonathan White.
manager		What for?
man 1		Which room is he in?
woman		We call.
bumstead		A real shame...
man 1		Dont fall asleep.  Might never wake, yes.
voice		Fifty-six...  Fifty-six...
white		What?  Who are you?
fredrick		Cmon, lets go!  We dont have any time.
white		Hold it a minute.  Lets start at the beginning, huh?
frerick		Shit!  Quick!  Run!
white		Shit.
cop		We got another one upstairs
bumstead		Dammit!
miss crenshaw		Sorry, sir.
bumstead		Dont ever sneak up on me like that! Who are you?
miss crenshaw		Patricia Crenshaw.
miss crenshaw		Im your new assistant.
bumstead		I didnt requisition a secretary.
miss crenshaw		The Chief-Inspector thought you might need a hand.
miss crenshaw		Ive taken the liberty and had Inspector Thompsons office searched, as I believe you instructed.  All clear now, sir.  They found several more traps and things were filed under pretty strange categories... Poor man.
bumstead		Good.
miss crenshaw		You wont regret this, sir.
bumstead		Fine.
white		Keep newspapers here, birth certificates, records of deaths, that kind of thing?
librarian		Which would you like first?
white		Okay.  Newspapers.
librarian		Are you alright?
librarian		Dont mention it...
white		Im trying to reach nine zero eight triple two.  I cant get through...  Shit!
white		It is?...  Which area is that number listed in?...  Is that near the ocean?...  The ocean...  Never mind. Have a Jonathan White listed?... WHITE.  Seventeen?  All Johns?  I see...  Never mind.
bumstead		What?  I dont drink coffee.  A cup of tea would be good.  Milk and no sugar.
crenshaw		Making progress?
bumstead		These are the investigations of a madman.  He has fabricated an entire bizarre paranoid delusion with no internal logic whatever.  Its the second time now.
bumstead		Look at this!
bumstead		You typed this report?
miss crenshaw		Yes, sir.  Anything wrong?
bumstead		Wrong?  Look at this!
miss crenshaw		It seems fine.
bumstead		Fine?  Look here!
bumstead		How can I submit this?
miss crenshaw		Im sorry...
bumstead		Do you wash your hands before you type things?
miss crenshaw		Why, yes.
bumstead		Well be more careful, please.
crenshaw		Inspector Bumsteads office... Yes...  Yes...
miss crenshaw		Yes, sir.  The Chief-Inspector said he would see you now.
stromboli		What is it?
bumstead		A formality.  I need to speak with Thompson.  Officially I need your written permission.
stromboli		Why do you want to speak to him?
bumstead		A hunch.  He might be able to...
bumstead		Its extremely important to my investigation...
stromboli		Ill be the judge of that.  Anything else?
bumstead		Actually, I was wondering, sir, if you could let me have a few uniforms, to follow up for me...
bumstead		Lost something?
stromboli		What makes you think that!  If you would learn to concentrate on facts, not get so side-tracked  -  you might get things done faster, Bumstead...
white		I need something to keep me awake.
barber		Looks like you need a haircut to me.
white		Thanks.  Just some pills.
barber		Only two bucks.  Shave as well...
barber		Relax.  Sure!
barber		Tell you what  -  let me cut yer hair, give ya watcha need half price. Cant argue at that!
white		Sell maps?
barber		What of?
white		The city.  I need to get to the ocean.
barber		Nope.  No maps.  Ocean, huh?  On vacation?
barber		Grandpa thought customers might like some mood music.
barber		You still look familiar.  Its driving me nuts!  Sure I dont know ya from somewhere?
barber		Mnunn.  Cold lately.  That night, couple weeks ago.  That was real cold.  Remember that?
white		Not really...
barber		Yeah, Im like that.  Senility says the wife.  But she sure cant complain.  Heh.  The erector set still works good.  And this aint no fucking rug! Ghead.  Feel it!  All mine!
grandpa		Yes! Feeeeel it!
priest		Beware!  The night is deadly.  There is a criminal among us.
priest		It could be she!  The innocent across the street!
priest		Or the temptress next door!
priest		Or mister nervy stranger at the back!
priest		You are thinking it could be anyone? And youre right!  Why, it could even be Mother!
gaunt woman		He took my little boy!  Ill rip out his eyes!
older priest		You have sinned?
white		NO.  Ah...
priest		I am listening.
priest		You fornicated?
white		No.  I, ah...
priest		You seem restless.
white		Someones after me.
priest		Then we must call the police.
white		No.  I mean...  that isnt necessary.
priest		I see.  Then who is after you?  What sins have you committed?
white		Just let me sit here for a moment? Ill go soon, and stop bothering you.
priest		Youre the murderer?  Yes!  That must be it!  Dont kill me!
white		Shut up!  Listen.  Walk out quietly.  Understand?
priest		Dont kill me!
white		Shut up!
priest		Please...
mystery man		It will be inconvenient, yes...
bumstead		How long have you been here?
cop		Maybe ten minutes...  Thats strange.
bumstead		Spinning backwards?
cop		Yours too?
bumstead		I want prints over here...
white		I want to see the doctor.  It's important.
nurse		What time was your appointment?
white		No idea.  Just get him...
man 1		It has failed.
man 2		This is becoming dangerous, yes!
man 3		Let's get this over with.
man 5		What about the dance-steps!  This is my responsibility, we must resolve this issue, yes?
man 5		Sorry.
man 3		The situation has changed.  This one is in possession of knowledge...
man 4		A freak!
man 1		Impossible!
man 3		It gets interesting, yes.
man 2		Stop this!  It has gone too far! Tell Mister Black!
schreber		You remember nothing?  Who you are? What you've done?
white		You know something about me?
schreber		Ah, that would be cheating, wouldn't it?  Is there nothing you remember?  Not even a detail?   You must try.
white		You think I haven't been trying!  Just water.
schreber		Water?
white		Waves...  A beach.  A woman whispering.  That's all.  I need to stay awake.  Do you have any pills?
schreber		What does she say?  The woman.
white		Asks my name.  Over and over.  Just like a broken record.  Only thing is, I can't answer.  I've no idea what my name is.
schreber		Your name is John White.
white		That's what people keep telling me.
schreber		Bad dreams?
white		Yes.
schreber		Tell me about them...
schreber		If you like.
white		You're supposed to be my doctor, right?
schreber		That's right.  I am your doctor.
white		Known me for long?
schreber		Well...
schreber		I cannot say...  You don't know the answer to that?
white		I told you, I can't remember a thing!
schreber		We won't get anywhere like this. Please.  Let's take things in easy steps...
schreber		Put simply...  a penetration of the left parieto-occipital area of the cranium...  complicated by inflammation that resulted in adhesions of the brain to the meninges.  Without going into detail...  the formation of scar tissue altered the configuration of the lateral ventricles, producing incipient atrophy of the medulla...
white		Did she drown?  The woman you told me about?
schreber		Not exactly.  She was found in a canal, disembowelled.  Throat cut. Blood drained.  The body wrapped in a bed-sheet.
white		Horrible...
schreber		You remember nothing, eh?  Let me show you something.
schreber		Formation of memories is the most important of brain functions.
schreber		We are little more than a sum of memories.  From them we reference who we are, where we're going.  Without a past we are nothing.  This is why you are so interesting.
white		I'm nothing then.
schreber		Anything but, my friend.
schreber		It feels no pain.
white		Can I get my life back?
schreber		Maybe.
schreber		We know of two kinds of memory. Firstly, declarative memory.
schreber		And then there is procedural memory.
schreber		Follow?
schreber		Research on simple animals can be... useful.  To show us where memory storing systems are located, for example.  I am building an experiment with hamsters next.  Cute little things.
schreber		Listen to me talk!  You must be hungry.
schreber		Whole damn wing lost power.  Wiring's old.  Keep meaning to get it fixed. Here we are.
schreber		Ah.  Beautiful!  Head and all!  Just how I like 'em!
white		I'm sorry.  About before.
schreber		I don't blame you for getting angry. You are in a frustrating situation. You must be patient though.  Trust me completely.  I'm here to help.
schreber		It can't wait?
white		Still kicking, huh?
schreber		Ah, nearly done.  So tell me about your dreams.  I'm very interested.
white		Just the typical fabrications of a distorted mind.  You know, chased by mysterious men in black, that kind of thing...
schreber		Ah, our friends in black...  they are not just a figment of your imagination you know, in fact none of what you are experiencing is anything but real.
schreber		I know everything about you.  You have no choice but to trust me.
schreber		Scarey, isn't it?
schreber		Are you feeling alright?
schreber		What are you doing?
white		I have to go...
schreber		You can't go yet.  We've got so much to talk about...
schreber		You're tired.  You need to lie down.
white		Those pills...
foetus 1		This is madness.  If we're caught...
foetus 2		Shut-up.  Help me with these straps...
schreber		Leave it!
schreber		Damn!  Whoever it is  -  get rid of them!
nurse		Keys.
schreber		I'm sorry I had to put you through this, Anton.  There will be some pain, but things will be easier this way.
bumstead		Hold it!
bumstead		Police.  Nobody move.
schreber		He tried to kill me!
bumstead		Shut up!  Everybody stay calm...
bumstead		What's that?
bumstead		Dammit!  I'm curious?  How many so far?
bumstead		The six year old.  Sure, you remember.
bumstead		You sure have demonstrated a great deal of...  imagination.  The baby was the best though.  Several cops lost their lunch over that one.  Head twisted off, spine pulled out, yeech...
bumstead		We count seven so far.  Anyone we missed?
voice		Inspector Bumstead...  Inspector...
bumstead		What is it, Crenshaw?
crenshaw		Just reminding you...  your eight pee em...
bumstead		Dammit.  Very efficient, as usual, Crenshaw. Remind me to give you my watch.  It needs fixing.
crenshaw		Yes sir.
white		Where are we going?
bumstead		Shut-up.
bumstead		Gesundheit!
white		What are we doing here?
bumstead		Get out.
bumstead		Wait here.
bumstead		Bumstead.  I'm here to see my mother.
mechanical voice		Left  -  profile.
mechanical voice		Right  -  profile.
mechanical voice		Move  -  forward.
voice		Move  -  forward.
voice		Watch  -  the  - wheel.
voice		Move  -  forward.
voice		Stand  -  behind  -  the  -  screen.
voice		Move  -  forward.
voice		Face  -  the  - wall.
voice		What's your name?
voice		Oh, no?
stromboli		John...
stromboli		...Murderer.
stromboli		You'll sign a confession?
guard		Visitor.
schreber		Please, stay calm.
schreber		You're innocent...  You didn't kill anyone.
schreber		Listen to what I have to say.  Decide for yourself.
bumstead		What's he doing here?
cop		Says he is the man's doctor...  You know...
bumstead		I know it's his doctor...  Daniel Paul Schreber M.D.
miss crenshaw		Yes.  An "h".
schreber		The men in black  -  they're the killers.
white		You're a liar!
schreber		No, it's the truth.
white		So you're telling me the truth this time?  Is that it!
schreber		If you would only take this, inject it in your brain, everything would be much clearer.
white		Not that again...
schreber		Everyone get's one  -  very much like this...  But this one's special.  It will help you understand, everything...
schreber		Anton  -  I mean, John, there has been an experiment, a dangerous experiment.  I arranged it.  It was a lie from the beginning.  It almost worked, but things did not go as they should have.  You have been left  - blank.
schreber		You can change this, all this.  But you must take it.
white		You've been working too hard.
schreber		Please!  Don't be foolish!  Time is short.  Let me show you something. Look at this syringe.
white		Why?
schreber		Don't ask stupid questions.  Look at it.
schreber		Concentrate.  Imagine the syringe rising.  Picture it floating above the table.
schreber		Do it!
white		It's a trick.
schreber		No it isn't.  You are doing it!  Now raise it over the glass and...
white		Oh, sorry...
mechanical voice		Your  -  time  -  is  -  up.
bumstead		Doctor!  What brings you here?
schreber		Just visiting my patient.
bumstead		Really?  And how is his state of mind?
schreber		He's seriously disturbed...
bumstead		You seem a little edgy.  Everything okay?
schreber		Yes, of course.  Everything's fine...
bumstead		To tell you the truth, I'm glad we've run into each other like this.  Maybe you can help me tidy some loose ends.
schreber		Loose ends?
stromboli		I need to speak to you.  Immediately.
stromboli		Bumstead, these...  er, gentlemen are here to collect White.
bumstead		This is highly irregular.  I have a right to know.
man 1		We are from a mental asylum.
stromboli		Yes.  That's right.  He's ill  -  he needs expert help.
bumstead		I see...
man 1		Yes, Inspector.  Has he been displaying any strange...  behaviour?
bumstead		He's been a little angel...
stromboli		If you could show them to the holding cell now.
man 1		Where is he?
bumstead		Yes, sir.  I'm sorry...  But I don't understand how it was possible.  The only window was twenty feet up a vertical wall, he was cuffed...
stromboli		 How could you have been so stupid?
cop		I'm sorry, sir.
stromboli		Alright, get out.
stromboli		You stay.
stromboli		Bumstead, you're starting to annoy me.  This case is very important to me.  Just a little warning:  I've got my eye on you inspector, remember that.
bumstead		Yes, sir.
japanese woman		He's up here!  He raped me!  Hurry! Before he kills again!
white		That's me.  I'm a shadow.
white		Do I look like a murderer to you?
white		Who is this?  What do you know about me?
woman		John.
woman		Please believe me.  It's me, John. Your WIFE.  I wouldn't lie to you. You told me I could come and see you -  now you want to just send me away again...
white		I thought it would make more sense. I'm getting the pieces, but when I put it together it feels like... Like you're telling me about somebody else's life...
wife		It's the truth...  I need you.  I know you're innocent.
white		How do you know I'm innocent?
wife		Of course you are.  You couldn't do those terrible things.  Come home with me  -  maybe things will make sense then...
white		I can't do that.  It's dangerous. What about my parents?  Do you know where I can find them?
wife		They're dead, John.
wife		You have an uncle.  You were very close.
wife		This is where he lives. I'm sure he would like to see you.
white		What's your name?
elizabeth		I want to help...
white		Alright.  Here...
white		Know this place?
white		How do I get there?  Tell me.
wife		That's easy.  You...
elizabeth		...strange, I forgot.
white		Yes.  Very strange.
thompson		Go away!
thompson		Bumstead?
thompson		Can't let you in...  sorry.
bumstead		I'm on the serial killer case, need to talk.
thompson		Not that.  Anything else.
bumstead		You don't look so well...  C'mon, let me in Thompson.
thompson		I can't talk about that.  As long as you understand, that's all.
thompson		Pull up some garbage  -  make yourself at home.
thompson		They've taken my mind, my memories...
bumstead		What?  Who has?
thompson		Is that your idea of a joke?  I don't remember...  Take my advice, Bumstead.  Get off this case.  Now.
bumstead		What is going on?
thompson		Get away!  Leave me alone!
thompson		It's  -  it's disgusting, I know...
bumstead		Jesus!  We have to get you to a doctor...
thompson		No...  No doctor...
bumstead		But...  How long has this been happening?
thompson		A few days...  a few weeks  -  dunno, I can't remember.  Worse thing is, I never know if it will change back again...  Now, please leave me alone.
mystery man		The line of junction between two edges!
mystery man		We have located him.  Now is the time, yes.
mystery man		Let the tuning commence!
cop		All the same entry wounds.  It's definitely him.  She lives...  lived here.  A prostitute.
bumstead		The other one?
cop		His wife.
bumstead		Jesus.  Small world.  Where's the photographer?
cop		No one available.
young cop		They won't come out.
cop		We'll interrogate them anyway.
cop		This is the family of the victim  - apparently they were in the apartment when he committed...
cop		Oh, yes...
cop		They don't speak English...
bumstead		How will we interrogate them?
cop		Well, sir...  I don't know exactly.
bumstead		It's alright.  I won't hurt you.
mister black		I have called this meeting for a purpose, yes?  It is clear to you we are  - unhappy, yes?
schreber		Yes, of course.  I...
mister black		The tuning failed  -  when our agents arrived he was gone.  He knows things -  predicts things.  Explain to us, Doctor.  Why is the situation this way?  Yes?
schreber		I'm not certain I fully understand myself...
mister black		No excuses, dearest Doctor!  Answers. Yes?
mister black		You said this would be containable! Nothing works this time.  Why is this so?
mystery men		Why!  Why!
schreber		I  -  ah  -  I...  it's a little cold in here don't you think?
mister black		We must find him.  This is your responsibility.
bumstead		Who is it?
miss crenshaw		Won't say.  Says he must talk to you.
bumstead		Put it through...
bumstead		This is Bumstead.  Who is this?
bumstead		I need everything on the Jonathan White case.
miss crenshaw		Yes, sir.  Everything?
bumstead		All the important stuff.  Wrap it up for me.
bumstead		Please  -  I'm in a hurry.
bumstead		Why give yourself up?
white		I  -  ah - couldn't think of anything else to do.  I thought maybe you know something...  I'm scared.
bumstead		That was a pretty good escape act at the station.  How did you do that?
white		I woke up in a subway.  I don't know how I got there.
white		People...  after me.
bumstead		Who?
white		I don't know who they are.
bumstead		Why are they after you?
white		Don't know that either.
bumstead		Don't know much, do you?
voice		What is your name...  What is your name...
mister black		You have duplicated the personality, yes.
man 3		It is ready.  The Doctor was most helpful.
mister black		I hear a clock in my head, and I like it!
mister black		A world in our likeness!
men		A world in our likeness!
bumstead		Please.  Not that way.  If you could just follow the covering  -  the carpet gets stained and it's impossible to clean.
bumstead		Everything the department knows about John White is in this.  Here.  Excuse me for a moment.
bumstead		That stuff helpful?
bumstead		You're case has been driving me crazy.  You see, I pride myself on being thorough.  There's too many loose ends with your case.  Thought it was best you were hidden until we understand more about the facts.  What do you know about these men in black?
white		If you shoot them here...  you can kill them.  They're not people  -  like us  -  got insects in their heads...  Got any disinfectant?
bumstead		Here.  Careful with your trousers.  That stuff stains.
bumstead		Here.
bumstead		Any idea what part the Doctor plays in this business?
bumstead		Let's try and find out, shall we.  Lace is untied.
barber		He with you shortly, sir...
bumstead		I didn't tell you the entire reason I helped you.  It started with two little girls.  Twins.  Used to play with them when I was young.  Couldn't remember for the life of me what they looked like, then I understood why...
bumstead		They didn't have faces.
white		What?
bumstead		That's right.  Just seamless flesh across the front of their heads.  No mistake.  I just hadn't remembered it that way.  Up until then they had been normal little girls in my memory.  That's not all.  Once I started examining them, all sorts of things about my life, had... inconsistencies.  It was like a game. I would think about a person or a place, or an event.  Then I would turn the lights off.  Sit down in a comfortable chair...  And study each detail of this subject.
bumstead		Everything was liquid beneath a thin surface that had always seemed solid to me...
bumstead		Is there anything you haven't told me about this business?  Even the most insignificant thing?
bumstead		Go on.
white		Well.  The only thing I've been certain of, all this time, is that I need to get to the ocean.  The point is no one seems to know how to get there.
bumstead		Why, that's ridiculous.  You just...
bumstead		We'll get to the bottom of this.  I mean it.
bumstead		I met a friend of yours the other night, doctor.  Tall fellow.  No hair.  Rather pale skin...
schreber		I don't know what you're talking about.
bumstead		That's surprising.  He was leaving your office at the time...
schreber		You are mistaken.
white		What are you hiding?
schreber		Nothing.  I don't know anything!
schreber		Please, they'll kill me...
bumstead		I think it's time you introduced us to your little friends.
schreber		In there.
bumstead		Just like that?
bumstead		What is this place?
schreber		You wouldn't believe me if I told you, Inspector.  Have patience  - you'll see for yourself.
white		Look.
schreber		Put them on.
schreber		Get in.  Hurry.
white		 Where do you think this goes?
bumstead		It sure isn't the fun-fair.
schreber		Follow me, and do exactly as I do.
men		NIGHT OF THE EYE!  NIGHT OF THE EYE!
man 2		The Eye is too small for the head of the pin!
man 1		Yes!
man 3		What is it that floats on the water? The Eye!
man 1		Indeed!
bumstead		What?
schreber		The eye.  Master of time and space!
bumstead		The Eye  -  um  -  delicious with horseradish on rye!
bumstead		Nothing to it...
white		Eye...  eye, captain!
man 1		Um  -  yes...
man 4		My spine will bend for the Eye!
bumstead		Was that for real down there?
schreber		I'm afraid so.
bumstead		What the hell is that?
bumstead		Quick.  My car.
white		What now?
bumstead		This ocean business...  I know where I can find a map.  I need to go back to the station.  Where will you be?
white		I'll go see an uncle of mine.  Five  -  one  -  eight  -  three  -  double six  -  three...
bumstead		Good.  Uh-oh...
bumstead		Take mine.
puppet		ARRRRRRRRGGGHHHH!...  HA-HA-HA-HA- HA!!
bumstead		Jump!
ticket seller		Yeah.  That's what I said!  What..?
white		I'm looking for this address.
ticket seller		Upstairs.  Through there.
man		Are you alright?  What are you doing here?  Is this one of your jokes, John?  It's been so long, I thought you'd forgotten your uncle Karl?
white		Uncle...  Karl.
karl		And this is me again about  -  um  -  I would guess about twelve feet further to the right of the last shot.  Now just behind the wall is the hotel I stayed at  -  sweet little place...
white		Yes?  Oh, it's you...  Yes...  My uncle apparently...  Just looking at some memories...  You have?  That's good.
bumstead		At first I thought there was no way to get to the ocean...  The buildings are a barrier, no windows, no doors -  everything just, well, ends  -  only thing would be drill a hole.  But then, I saw it, one door, just one... Inside a tenement building...
white		Where can we meet?...  Alright. Good...
karl		Look!  This is a good one!
white		What is that door?
karl		Which one?
white		There.  Behind the cabinet.  Where does it go?
karl		Such a joker!  Like your father.
white		No.  Have a look.
white		You see it?
karl		Yes.
white		Where does it lead?
karl		It must be a closet or something.
karl		Don't trip over.  It's dark up there.
karl		John, I didn't see you there.
karl		What is that?
karl		Filthy beast!  Shoo!  Go on!  Shoo!
white		No!
bumstead		I can't wait any longer...
nurse		I'm sorry.  I told you, she is being examined...
nurse		Mister Bumstead!
surgeon		We will teach the pig to meddle in our affairs.  Yes.
surgeon		Ah, Inspector Bumstead!  We are glad you are here  -  I'm afraid we have done all we can.  Yes.  Your Mother has passed.  Yes.
bumstead		But she was getting better...
surgeon		We are sorry.  The cancer  -  it was fatal.
bumstead		She doesn't have cancer.
surgeon		We knew that.  Yes.  Anyway  -  she is dead.
mystery man		You will obey us, yes.  In your mind there is a dark space...
white		Nice knowing you.
bumstead		White?
bumstead		Dammit.
stromboli		Why do you always have to find things out the hard way!  Couldn't you just do your job, you idiot?  I told you, didn't I?  These people are not playing games, Bumstead.  They can do anything they want, don't you understand?
stromboli		Time for that early retirement, Bumstead.  Didn't bring the gold watch I'm afraid.
figure		Ahhh...  it hurts!...
white		What happened to you?
schreber		I'm...  being...  punished.
schreber		I had to  -  ahhhh  -  find you...  I.. I...
schreber		We are...  living in their dreams...
schreber		Insect...  dreams...
bumstead		Gesundheit!
white		I didn't sneeze.
man 1		We are looking for the White victims.
mortician		And who the hell are you?
mortician		Over there.  Numbers eight to twelve.
man 1		Thank you.
mystery man		There is nothing, Mister White. Beyond the city.  Never has been. Unfortunate.  Yes?
white		How did you know where to find me?
mystery man		We knew you would turn up here eventually...  Been waiting for you, yes.  Hoped you wouldn't make a nuisance of yourself on the way...
mister black		Welcome.
mister black		John White, you are to be tried for murder, yes.  You wish to confess to these crimes now?
mister black		Very well.  The testimony of the prosecutors.  Yes.
mister black		Something to say?  Ready to confess?
mister black		Speak up.  Yes.
mister black		Bring the witnesses.
mister black		You are the accused's parents?
father		That's right.
mother		Yes.
white		Wait a minute...
mister slack		You had your turn!  Let them speak.
white		This is insane!
white		It was them, not me.  They killed you.
white		You have invented all this.  History is a lie, not just mine, everyone's  - a fiction.  You are the authors.
mister black		A fanciful idea, Mister White.
white		Everyone has a job  -  a function.  Each one teaches you more about your invention.  I'm what is called a murderer.
white		You've given everybody memories, but I missed out.  The Doctor saw to that -  played your own game.  And now...
white		You're trying to get rid of me.
white		Why do I threaten you?  You're scared aren't you?
mister black		Ah  -  a plot.  Now we have a plot!  Very inventive...
mother		Please, John, you're embarrassing us...
white		Shut up!
mister black		A book of delusions.  Anything else?
white		But I...
mister black		I see.  The verdict, yes...
white		Wait, this isn't fair...
mister black		Before I pronounce sentence...
mister black		How dare you use your tricks on me!
white		I didn't realise...
mister black		Shut up, freak!  Monster!  You are insignificant.
mister black		You'll regret that.
mister black		This has all gone too far.  Yes, much too far.
figure		Good as new.  Yes.  Everything is easier now.
fat man		It's small but clean...  Isn't it?
white		Yes...
woman		What's your name?
white		John...  White.
****Dialogues from script :Dark_Knight_Rises.txt****

gordon		But I knew Harvey Dent. I was...his friend. And it will be a very long time before someone inspires us the way he did. Gordon, choked with emotion, gathers the papers of his eulogy. I believed in Harvey Dent. And we FADE TO BLACK.
cia man		Dr. Pavel, I'm CIA. Dr. Pavel nods, nervous. CIA Man hands the Driver a briefcase.
driver		He wasn't alone. CIA Man, confused, spots the Hooded Men. He turns to Dr. Pavel.
cia man		You don't get to bring friends.
driver		Don't worry, no charge for them.
cia man		Why would I want them?
driver		They were trying to grab your prize.  They work for the mercenary. The masked man.
cia man		  Bane? The Driver nods. CIA Man turns to his Special Forces Men.
cia man		Get 'em on board - I'll call it in.
cia man		What are you doing in the middle of my operation?
cia man		 FIRST ONE TO TALK GETS TO STAY ON MY AIRCRAFT!   SO...WHO PAID YOU TO GRAB DR.  PAVEL?!
cia man		Wiseguy, huh? At least you can talk. Who are you?
third prisoner		We are nothing. We are the dirt beneath your feet. And no one cared who I was until I put on the mask...
bane		Who we are does not matter. What matters is our plan.
bane		It would be extremely painful.
cia man		You're a big guy -
bane		For you.
bane		Of course. Dr. Pavel refused our offer in favor of yours. We had to know what he told you about us.
cia man		Why not just ask him?
bane		He would not have told us.
cia man		You have methods.
bane		Him, I need healthy. You present no such problem. CIA Man laughs for the Special Forces' benefit. A heavy bass tone is rising. The Sergeant looks out the window.
sergeant		Sir?
cia man		Well congratulations, you got yourselves caught. What's the next step of your master plan?
bane		Crashing this plane...
bane		Friend. They expect one of us in the wreckage. The man nods, unhooks himself, takes Bane's arm.
bane		Calm, Doctor. Now is not time for fear... Bane slides Dr. Pavel out of his seat. They hang in the vertical, windblown cabin. Bane takes out a detonator.
bane		That comes later. Bane presses the detonator - the cabin drops from around them, revealing the terrifying drop to the peaks below. Dr. Pavel screams as they are hoisted up towards the transport, and we -  CUT TO:
mayor		This city has seen a historic turnaround. No city is without crime. But this city is without organized crime because the Dent Act gave law enforcement teeth in its fight against the mob. Now people are talking about repealing the Dent Act. And to them I say...not on my watch. Enthusiastic applause as the Mayor wraps up. I want to thank the Wayne Foundation for hosting this event. I'm told Mr. Wayne couldn't be here tonight, but I'm sure he's with us in spirit...
congressman		Commissioner.
gordon		Congressman.
congressman		Ever lay eyes on Wayne at one of these things? Gordon shakes his head. Gordon's Deputy Commissioner, Foley, cuts in.
foley		No one has. Not in years.  MAYOR  And murdered him in cold blood. The Congressman watches a tray of canaps breeze past, then grabs the ass of the maid carrying them. She freezes.
congressman		Sweetheart, not so fast with the chow.
maid		 Shrimp balls? The Congressman grabs two. The Maid moves off. The Congressman glances down at Gordon's papers.
congressman		Jesus, Gordon, is that your speech? We're gonna be here all night.
gordon		Maybe the truth about Harvey isn't so simple, Congressman.
gordon		The truth...? INSERT CUT: Harvey Dent, face half destroyed, threatens Gordon's son with a handgun.
congressman		Thank Christ for that...
gordon		Maybe right now all you need to know is that there are a thousand inmates in Blackgate Prison as a direct result of the Dent Act. These are violent criminals, essential cogs in the organized crime machine that terrorized Gotham for so long. Maybe, for now, all I should say about Harvey Dent's death is this...it has not been for nothing. The figure on the balcony turns back into the mansion. People clap as Gordon leaves the mike. Gordon approaches Foley.
gordon		The second shift reports in?
foley		On your desk. But you should put in some more time with the Mayor -
gordon		That's your department.
congressman		Anyone shown him the crime stats?
foley		He goes by his gut, and it continues to bother him, whatever the numbers.
congressman		Must be popular with the wife.
foley		Not really. She took the kids and moved to Cleveland.
congressman		He'll have plenty of time for visits. Mayor's dumping him in the spring.
foley		Really? He's a hero.
congressman		War hero. This is peacetime. Stay smart, the job's yours.
maid 2		They say he never leaves the East Wing.
maid 3		I heard he had an accident - that he's disfigured.
alfred		Mr. Till, why are your people using the main stairs? Alfred places a glass of water on a tray next to a covered plate. Picks up the tray, looks around the chaotic kitchen.
alfred		Where's Mrs. Bolton?
maid		She's up at the bar, sir. Can I help?
alfred		The East drawing room. Unlock the door, place the tray on the table, lock the door again. Nothing more.
alfred		I'm sorry, Miss Tate, but I've tried. He won't see you.
miranda		It's important, Mr. Pennyworth. Her accent is European. Hard to place.
alfred		Mr. Wayne is as determined to ignore important things as trivial ones.
daggett		Everyone knows Wayne's holed up in there with eight-inch nails, peeing into Mason jars.  Good of you to let me on the grounds.
alfred		The Dent Act is about all Gotham. Even you, Mr. Daggett. Miss Tate, always a pleasure. Alfred turns and walks off. Daggett smiles, glib.
daggett		Why waste your time talking to the man who threw away your investment on some save-the-world vanity project? He can't help you get your money back. But I can.
miranda		I could try explaining that a save-the-world project, vain or not, is worth investing in, whatever the return. I could try, Mr. Daggett, but you understand only money and the power you think it buys, so why waste my time, indeed?
maid		I'm, I'm terribly sorry, Mr. Wayne. It is Mr. Wayne, isn't it?
maid		Although you don't have the long nails...  Or facial scars... She trails off, embarrassed. Coy. She seems very young.
wayne		Is that what they say about me?
maid		It's just that...nobody sees you...
wayne		That's a beautiful necklace. Reminds me of the one that belonged to my mother. It can't be the same one - her pearls are in this safe - He reaches out with his cane to press open a panel on the bureau, revealing a safe door... - which the manufacturer clearly explained is uncrackable.
maid		Oops. No one told me it was uncrackable.
wayne		I'm afraid I can't let you take those.
maid		Look, you wouldn't hit a woman any more than I would beat up a cripple. She kicks his cane from under him, smashes him down. Of course, sometimes exceptions have to be made.
maid		Can I have a ride? The Congressman, a little tipsy, looks at her hungrily.
congressman		You read my mind.
alfred		Miss Tate was asking to see you again.
wayne		She's very persistent.
alfred		And quite lovely, in case you were wondering.
wayne		I wasn't.
alfred		What are you doing?
wayne		Examining print dust. We've been robbed.
alfred		And this is your idea of raising the alarm?
alfred		She?
wayne		One of the maids, perhaps you should stop letting them in this side of the house. 
alfred		Perhaps you should learn to make your own bed, then. Why are you dusting for prints?
wayne		I'm not. She was.
blake		I didn't want to bother you up here, but they're looking for you.
gordon		What's the problem, son?
blake		Congressman Gilly's wife's been calling. He hasn't made it home from the Wayne Foundation event.
gordon		That's a job for the police?
blake		Sir, I've been a cop for a year and I've only logged half a dozen arrests. When you and Dent cleaned the streets you cleaned 'em good. Pretty soon we'll be chasing overdue library books. Gordon smiles at this. Blake looks at his stack of files.
blake		But here you are. Like we're still at war...
gordon		Old habits.
blake		Or instinct.
gordon		What's your name, son?
blake		Blake, sir.
gordon		You have something you want to ask me, Officer Blake?
blake		It's that night. This night, eight years ago. The night Dent died.
gordon		What about it?
blake		The last confirmed sighting of the Batman. He murders those people, takes out two SWAT teams, breaks Dent's neck...then just vanishes?
gordon		I'm not hearing a question, son.
blake		Don't you want to know who we was? Gordon turns to look at the broken searchlight. He brushes his fingers across its rusted shell.
gordon		I know exactly who he was.  He was Batman.
alfred		Master Wayne? Alfred's voice echoes through the vast mansion. No reply.
alfred		You haven't been down here in a long time...
wayne		Just trying to find out more about our jewel thief. I ran her prints from the photos she handled - Wayne pulls up a mug shot - a fat, male armed-robbery suspect. - but she was wearing someone else's fingerprints. She's good.
alfred		She may be. But we have the trace on the necklace.
wayne		We do, so I cross-referenced the address she went back to with police data on high-end B-and-E's...
wayne		She's good, but the ground is shrinking beneath her feet.
alfred		We should send the police before she fences the pearls.
wayne		She won't. She likes them too much. And they weren't what she was after.
alfred		What was she after?
wayne		My fingerprints. There was printer toner mixed with graphite on the safe. Gives you a good pull, and it's untraceable.
alfred		Fascinating. Maybe you should exchange notes over coffee.
wayne		Now you're trying to set me up with a jewel thief?
alfred		At this point, sir, I would set you up with a chimpanzee if I thought it would bring you back into the world.
wayne		There's nothing out there for me.
alfred		And that's the problem. You hung up the cape and cowl, but never moved on. You won't get out there and find a life. Find someone -
wayne		  I did find someone, Alfred. 
alfred		I know. And then you lost them. That's part of living, sir. But you're not living - you're waiting. Hoping for things to go bad again.
dwp man		They wash up a couple times a month. More when in gets colder - homeless sheltering in the tunnels. We had to pull him to clear the basin, but other than that we didn't touch him... 
ross		What?
blake		Name's Jimmy. He's at St. Swithin's.  The boys home where I...I coach some ball.
father reilly		Jimmy hadn't been here for months.
blake		Why?
father reilly		You know why, Blake - he aged out. We don't have the resources to keep boys on after sixteen -
blake		The Wayne Foundation gives money for that -
father reilly		Not for two years now.
blake		He has a brother here, right?
father reilly		Mark. I'll tell him.
blake		I'd like to, if that's okay.
blake		I'm sorry.
blake		What was he doing in the tunnels?
mark		Lot of guys been going down the tunnels when they age out. Say you can live down there. Say there's work down there.
blake		What kind of work are you gonna find in the sewers?
mark		More than you can find up here, I guess. Blake considers this. Troubled.
stryver		You brought a date?
selina		I like having someone around to open doors for me.
selina		Right hand. No partials. Stryver slides a transparency out of the envelope. Holds it up to the light. Four perfect fingerprint transfers.
stryver		Very nice. He pockets the envelope.
selina		Not so fast, handsome. You got something for me?
stryver		Oh, yes.
selina		I don't know what you're going to do with Mr. Wayne's prints...but I'm guessing you'll need his thumb. As Stryver checks the envelope again -
selina		You don't count so good, huh?
stryver		I count fine. The Second Thug puts a gun to Selina's head.
stryver		In fact, I'm counting to ten right now... Selina looks in his eyes. The Thug cocks his gun. She blinks.
selina		Okay, okay -
selina		My friend is waiting outside. Just hit 'send'...
jen		Place is a little dead.
selina		 It'll liven up in a minute, trust me.
jen		Everything okay?
selina		Great. Catch you later. Jen leaves. Stryver checks the envelope. Satisfied.
selina		It would've been a lot easier to just give me what we agreed.
stryver		We can't have loose ends. And even in that dress, no one's going to miss you.
selina		No. But my friend over there...? Stryver looks at Selina's 'date' drooling into a bowl of nuts at the bar - he looks familiar...
selina		Every cop in the city's missing him.
stryver		Cute. But they're not gonna be looking in a place like this.
selina		I don't know... You did just use his cell phone. Stryver glances down at the cell phone as - SCREECH - the Thugs look out the window at cop cars and SWAT units descending on the bar. Stryver glances at the window and - SMASH - Selina CRACKS his head against the table, grabs
swat		It's alright, Miss. Just stay down
selina		Keep some pressure on that, sweetheart. She adjusts her dress in the broken mirror behind the bar. Moves for the door.
congressman		  Call me?
selina		There's a man in there - he's bleeding!
blake		It's okay, Miss. It's okay.
gordon		Manhole!
gordon		You three, down with me. You two, head down to cover the next exit -
swat		Where -?
gordon		Get the DWP down here, now!
cop		Where's the DWP guy?
blake		They went down there?
foley		 And Gordon took SWAT in after them.
blake		Come on, we gotta get down there -
cop		That was a gas explosion, kid -
blake		Gas? This is a sewer!
foley		No one goes in there till we know what's down there.
blake		We know what's down there, sir. The Police Commissioner!
foley		Somebody get the hothead out of here. And get me a DWP guy! Blake backs off. Gets an idea - goes for his patrol car.
thug 1		This one's alive.  Jesus. It's the Police Commissioner.
thug 2		What do we do?
thug 1		Take him to Bane. The two Thugs drag Gordon down through the maze of tunnels. As they descend deeper they encounter work crews of muscular men wielding large drills and jackhammers, working the walls and ceiling of the larger tunnels. Some of the men are armed Mercenaries, overseeing gangs of homeless street kids. They stare as Gordon is dragged past. The Thugs drag Gordon between two waterfalls, into -
bane		Why are you here? The Thugs drop Gordon at Bane's feet.
thug 1		Answer him! Bane slowly turns to the Thugs. 
bane		I'm asking you.
thug 1		It's the Police Commissioner.
bane		And you brought him down here?
thug 2		We didn't know what to do. We -
bane		You panicked. And your weakness costs three lives.
thug 1		No, he's alone - Bane flips the Thug's chin up and to the side with a crack.
bane		Search him. Then I will kill you. The Thug, terrified, pulls out Gordon's badge, wallet, gun...and the folded papers of the speech he did not read. Bane takes these one by one with quick glances. He stops at the papers. Unfolds them...
thug 2		He's dead.
bane		Then show me his body.
thug 2		That water runs to any one of the outflows - we'd never find him. Bane turns to the Lead Mercenary.
bane		Give me your GPS. Lead Mercenary hands him a GPS - Bane tucks it into Thug 2's jacket, zips it up like a mother sending her kid to school. 
bane		Follow him.
thug 2		Follow him?
bane		Track him. Make sure both bodies will not be found. Then brick up the south tunnel.
blake		I need to see Bruce Wayne.
alfred		I'm sorry, Mr. Wayne doesn't take unscheduled calls. Even from police officers.
blake		And if I go get a warrant, in the investigation of Harvey Dent's murder? Would that still count as unscheduled?
wayne		What can I do for you, officer?
blake		Commissioner Gordon's been shot.
wayne		I'm sorry to hear that -
blake		He chased a gunman down into the sewers. When I pulled him out he was babbling about an underground army. A masked man called 'Bane'.
wayne		Shouldn't you be telling this to your superior officers?
blake		I did. One of them asked if he saw any giant alligators down there. He needs you. He needs the Batman.
wayne		If Commissioner Gordon thinks I'm the Batman he must be in a bad way  -
blake		He doesn't know or care who you are.  Not a lot of people who know what it feels like, do they? To be angry. In your bones. People understand, foster parents understand. For a while. Then they expect the angry kid to do what he knows he can never do. To move on. To forget.
blake		So they stopped understanding and sent the angry kid to a boys' home - St. Swithin's. Used to be funded by the Wayne Foundation. See, I figured it out too late. You have to hide the anger. Practice smiling in the mirror. Like putting on a mask. You showed up one day in a cool car, pretty girl on your arm.
blake		I don't know why you took the fall for Dent's murder, but I'm still a believer in the Batman. Even if you're not.
wayne		Why did you say your boys' home used to be funded by the Wayne Foundation?
blake		Because the money stopped. Might be time to get some fresh air and start paying attention to the details. Some of those details might need your help.
wayne		You checked that name? 'Bane' -
alfred		Ran it through some databases. He's a mercenary. No other known name. Never been seen or photographed without a mask. He and his men were behind a coup in West Africa that secured mining operations for our friend John Daggett.
wayne		Now Daggett's brought them here?
alfred		It would seem so. I'll keep digging.
wayne		Why did the Wayne Foundation stop funding boys' homes in the city?
alfred		The Foundation is funded from the profits of Wayne Enterprises...  There have to be some.
wayne		Time to talk to Mr. Fox, I think.
alfred		I'll get him on the phone -
wayne		No. Do we still have any cars around the place?
wayne		And I need an appointment at the hospital. About my leg.
alfred		Which hospital, sir?
wayne		Whichever one Jim Gordon's in.
miranda		I'm only asking for explanations because I think I can help.
fox		I'll pass along your request. Next time I see him. Miranda catches something in this.
miranda		He doesn't talk to you either?
fox		Let's just say that Bruce Wayne has his...eccentricities.
miranda		  Mr. Fox, are you aware that John Daggett is trying to acquire shares in Wayne Enterprises?
fox		I was not. But it wouldn't do him any good - Mr. Wayne still retains a clear majority. Miranda leaves. Fox moves into his office - stops.
fox		Bruce Wayne. As I live and breathe. Wayne rises, pushing hard on his cane.
fox		What brings you out of cryo-sleep Mr. Wayne?
wayne		I see you haven't lost your sense of humor...even if you have lost most of my money.
fox		Actually, you did that yourself. See, if you funnel the entire R and D budget for five years into a fusion project that you then mothball, your company is unlikely to thrive.
wayne		Even with -
fox		A wildly sophisticated CEO, yes. Wayne Enterprises is running out of time. And Daggett is moving in.
wayne		What're my options?
fox		If you're not willing to turn your machine on -
wayne		I can't, Lucius.
fox		Then sit tight. Your majority keeps Daggett at arm's length while we figure out a future for the energy program with Miranda Tate - she's supported your project all the way. She's smart, and quite lovely.
wayne		You too, Lucius?
fox		We all just want what's best for you, Bruce. Show her the machine.
wayne		I'll think it over.
fox		Anything else?
wayne		No, why?
fox		These conversations always used to end with some...unusual requests.
wayne		I retired.
fox		Let me show you some stuff, anyway. Fox hits a button - the bookcase opens into a hidden elevator.
wayne		I figured you'd have shut this place down.
fox		It was always shut down, officially.
wayne		But all this new stuff?
fox		After your father died, Wayne Enterprises set up fourteen different defense subsidiaries. I've spent years shuttering them and consolidating all the prototypes under one roof. My roof.
wayne		Why?
fox		Stop them falling into the wrong hands. Besides, I thought someone might get some use out of them... Wayne shakes his head.
fox		Sure I can't tempt you to something? Pneumatic crampons? Infrared lenses? Least let me get you something for that leg.
wayne		It's fine the use it gets these days.
fox		Well, then I have just the thing for an eccentric billionaire who doesn't like to walk... Fox opens a door - we glimpse a sleek vehicle. Wayne's eyes light up.
wayne		Now you're just showing off.
fox		Defense Department project for tight-geometry urban pacification. Rotors configured for maneuvering between buildings without recirculation.
wayne		What's it called?
fox		It has a long and uninteresting Wayne Enterprises designation. So I took to calling it the Bat. And yes, Mr. Wayne, it does come in black. Wayne touches its sleek side. Marveling.
fox		Works great except for the autopilot.
wayne		What's wrong with that?
fox		Software-based instability. Take a better mind than mine to fix it.
wayne		Better mind?
fox		I was trying to be modest. A less busy mind. Yours, perhaps. Wayne looks wistfully at the machine. Turns away.
wayne		I told you. I retired, Lucius.
doctor		I've seen worse cartilage in knees  - 
wayne		That's good -
doctor		No, that's because there is no cartilage in your knee. And not much of any use in your elbows and shoulders. Between that and the scar tissue on your kidneys, residual concussive damage to your brain tissue and general scarred-over quality of your body...  I cannot recommend that you go heli-skiing. About the only part of your body that looks healthy is your liver, so if you're bored I recommend you take up drinking, Mr. Wayne. Wayne smiles. The Doctor leaves. Wayne pulls on a ski mask, steps to the window, hops up, pulls a wire from his cane, which he clips to his belt. He props his cane behind the frame - jumps out. The wire unspools from the cane as -
gordon		We were in this together. Then you were gone...
wayne		The Batman wasn't needed anymore. We won.
gordon		Built on a lie. Our lie. Now there's evil rising from where we tried to bury it. Nobody will listen... The Batman has to come back.
wayne		What if he doesn't exist anymore?
gordon		He must. He must.
selina		Get out.
yuppie		She took my wallet! Selina twists his arm behind him in a blinding move.
selina		Now. She releases the Yuppie, who moves off down the stairs. Selina turns to Jen. Who is examining a wallet.
selina		I told you not to try it with the assholes, Jen.
jen		They're all assholes.
selina		Okay, the assholes who hit.
jen		I don't know what he's so upset about, he only had sixty bucks in here.
selina		Probably the watch.
young woman		Watch? Selina opens her hand and gives Jen the Yuppie's Rolex.
paparazzi		Another stiff too old to climb out of his sports car.
paparazzi 2		No, that's Bruce Wayne! Hey, Wayne, where you been hiding? Lenses swing onto Wayne, who pushes a button on his key fob - a pulse. The cameras die. Wayne heads to the door.
wayne		I'm not sure if my assistant put me on the guest list -
greeter		Right through here, Mr. Wayne...
wayne		Miss Tate, isn't it?
miranda		Even before you became a recluse, you never came to these things...
wayne		True. Proceeds go to the big fat spread, not the cause. It's not about charity, it's about feeding the ego of whichever society hag laid it on.
miranda		Actually, this is my party, Mr. Wayne.
wayne		Oh.
miranda		And the proceeds will go where they should, because I paid for the big fat spread myself.
wayne		That's very generous of you.
miranda		You have to invest to restore balance to the world. Take our clean-energy project...
wayne		Sometimes the investment doesn't pay off. Sorry. 
miranda		You have a practiced apathy, Mr. Wayne. But a man who doesn't care about the world doesn't spend half his fortune on a plan to save it...  And isn't so wounded when it fails that he goes into hiding... Wayne looks at Miranda. Intrigued.
miranda		Have a good evening, Mr. Wayne. Wayne watches Miranda glide away. Then turns to Selina.
wayne		Mind if I cut in? Rich Twit turns, annoyed - Wayne hands him his cane. Takes Selina by the waist. She glares at him.
wayne		You don't seem very happy to see me.
selina		You were supposed to be a shut-in.
wayne		Felt like some fresh air.
selina		Why didn't you call the police?
wayne		I have a powerful friend who deals with this kind of thing.  Brazen costume for a cat burglar.
selina		Yeah? Who are you pretending to be?
wayne		Bruce Wayne, eccentric billionaire. Who's your date?
selina		His wife's in Ibiza. She left her diamonds behind, though. Worried they'd get stolen.
wayne		It's pronounced 'Ibeetha'. You wouldn't want these folks realizing you're a crook not a social climber.
selina		 You think I care what anyone in this room thinks about me?
wayne		I doubt you care what anyone in this room thinks about you.
selina		Don't condescend, Mr. Wayne. You don't know a thing about me.
wayne		Well, Selina Kyle, I know you came here from your walk-up in Old Town - modest place for a master jewel thief. Which means either you're saving for your retirement - or you're in deep with the wrong people.
selina		You don't get to judge me because you were born in the master bedroom of Wayne Manor.
wayne		Actually, I was born in the Regency Room.
selina		I started off doing what I had to. Once you've done what you had to they'll never let you do what you want to.
wayne		Start fresh.
selina		There's no fresh start in today's world. Any twelve-year-old with a cell phone could find out what you did. Everything we do is collated and quantified. Everything sticks. We are the sum of our mistakes. 
wayne		Or our achievements.
selina		The mistakes stick better. Trust me.
wayne		You think that justifies stealing?
selina		I take what I need to from those who have more than enough. I don't stand on the shoulders of people with less.
wayne		Robin Hood?
selina		I'd do more to help someone than most of the people in this room. Than you.
wayne		Maybe you're assuming too much.
selina		Or maybe you're being unrealistic about what's really in your pants other than your wallet.
wayne		Ouch.
selina		You think all this can last? Wayne glances around at the sumptuous party.
selina		There's a storm coming, Mr. Wayne. You and your friends better batten down the hatches, because when it hits you're all gonna wonder how you ever thought you could live so large and leave so little to the rest of us.
wayne		Sounds like you're looking forward to it.
selina		I'm adaptable.
wayne		These pearls do look better on you then they did in my safe...
wayne		Not likely.
wayne		I must have lost my ticket -
valet		Your wife said you were taking a cab home, sir.
wayne		My wife?
alfred		Just you, sir?
wayne		Remember those 'unusual requests' I used to make?  FOX  I knew it! Up front, Alfred listens. Concerned.
alfred		You've got the wrong leg, sir.
wayne		You start with the good limb so it learns your optimum muscle patterns. Wayne swaps the brace to his bad knee. Puts his weight on it - the knee bends, kicks. He sits again. Cautious. Now we tighten it up.
alfred		It is terribly painful?
alfred		Happy watching, thank you, sir. Wayne shouts as the brace clicks home. He gets to his feet.
wayne		Not bad - Wayne executes a perfect roundhouse, knocking out a brick. Not bad at all.
alfred		Master Wayne, if you're considering going back out there you need to hear some rumors surrounding Bane.
wayne		I'm all ears.
alfred		There is a prison. In a more ancient part of the world. A pit. Where men are thrown to suffer and die. But sometimes, a man rises from the darkness. Sometimes...the pit sends something back.
wayne		Bane.
alfred		Born and raised in a hell on earth.
wayne		Born in a prison?
alfred		No one knows why. Or how he escaped. But they know who trained him one he did...R's al Ghl. Your
alfred		He plucked Bane from a dark corner of the earth and trained him in the blackest disciplines of combat, deception and endurance. Just like you.
wayne		Bane was a member of the League of Shadows.
alfred		Until he was excommunicated. And a man considered too extreme for R's  A al Ghl is not to be trifled with.  U
wayne		I didn't realize I was known for trifling with criminals.
alfred		That was then. And you can strap up your leg and put the mask back on. But it won't make you what you were.
wayne		Which was?
alfred		Someone whose anger at death made him value all life. Even his own.
wayne		If this man is all the things you say he is, then this city needs me. The Batsuit emerges from the cube.
alfred		Yes, this city needs Bruce Wayne. Your resources, your knowledge...not your body. Not your life. That time has passed.
wayne		I tried helping as Bruce Wayne, Alfred. And I failed.
alfred		You can fail as Bruce Wayne. As Batman, you can't afford to.
wayne		That's what you're afraid of - that if I go back out there I'll fail.
alfred		No. I'm afraid that you want to. Wayne looks at Alfred. Then turns to examine the Batsuit. 
trader 2		You can't short the stock because Bruce Wayne goes to a party -
trader 1		Wayne coming back is change. Change is either good or bad.
trader 2		On what basis?
trader 1		I flipped a coin. Near the front entrance: a Food Delivery Guy is standing there negotiating with a Trader.
trader 3		No. Rye. I told 'em rye. Trader 3 spots bad news on a screen. Alright, I'll take it.
trader 1		This is a stock exchange, there's no money you can steal - He dries up as Bane stops. Turns to him...
bane		Why else would you people be here? Bane grabs Trader 1 by the throat and drags him across the floor to an online automated trades terminal... He puts the man's thumb onto the print reader - the screen lights up.
bane		Enter your password. Or I send these men to your home.
blake		Move it, now! We've got a situation.
construction worker		Where can I move it?!
blake		That way! Blake points - but SWAT vehicles pile in, blocking. 
blake		Get in your vehicle and stay there! Foley and the SWAT Commander, Allen, approach the entrance. The Market Security Chief walks up, frantic.
security chief		You've gotta get in there!
foley		This is a hostage situation -
security chief		It's a robbery! They've got direct access to the online trading desk.
foley		I'm not risking my men for your
security chief		It's not our money, it's everyone's!
allen		Really? Mine's in my mattress.
security chief		If you don't shut these guys down, the stuffing in that mattress might be worth a whole lot less, pal.
foley		Cut the fiber line - shut down the cell tower. That'll slow them down.
shoeshine man		They cut the fiber. Cell's working.
bane		For now. How much longer does the program need?
shoeshine man		Eight minutes.
bane		Time to go mobile. Shoeshine Man picks up the laptop, slips it into his pack...
allen		Get the barriers up - no more in and out on this street! Steel wedge-shaped barriers rise up at the mouth of the street. A Sniper watches the doors through a thermal scope. Six large heat signatures bloom, too big for people...
sniper		I've got something - The door explodes. SWATs duck, six sportbikes race out and leap the ramp-like barricades, sending SWATs scattering. Cops scramble to pull their vehicles out to give chase.
rookie cop		Shoot the tires!
veteran cop		No shot!
foley		Back off, back off! They've got hostages!
rookie cop		What's going on with the lights? The Veteran Cop looks back - streetlights and headlights are dying one after another. The darkness is chasing them - the darkness hits them. Their lights, sirens, and engine die...
veteran cop		It can't be...
rookie cop		The hell was that?!
veteran cop		Oh boy. You're in for a show tonight, son.
foley		Let's roll, they've spotted the Batman!
foley		I'm gonna do what Gordon never could.
blake		What's that?
foley		I'm gonna take down the Batman.
blake		Sir, what about the armed robbers?
spotter		  One bike's pulled off, no hostage -
foley		Negative! Stay on the Batman!
blake		But he's getting away!
tv announcer		People aren't saying much - frankly, they're too busy - but all signs suggest that what we're
catwoman		Well, what do you know? Catwoman opens the safe. Nothing inside. She frowns.
police voice		   STEP AWAY FROM THE BIKE! Batman looks at the line of stopped traffic. An empty car transporter is below the on-ramp... Batman fires the cannons at the transporter, the near ramp crashes down, and Batman roars towards it - mounts it and jumps onto the on-ramp...
daggett		After eight years he has to pick tonight...
stryver		He's drawing the cops off Bane... Daggett watches, intrigued.
foley		How did you let him go?!
foley		And you don't?! We're not letting one nut with a bad attitude and some fancy gadgets run this town down, you hear me?!
foley		Like a rat in a trap, gentlemen... Foley reaches for a loudhailer. VARRROOOOM!! A noise from the alley that none of the cops have heard before...
veteran cop		You might have the wrong animal there, sir -
blake		Are you sure that was him? Foley looks at Blake. Thrusts the loudhailer at him.
announcer		  Police are keeping quiet about the prospect of a return by the Batman, but eyewitness accounts seem the clearly suggests the type of... 
stryver		Bane says the Batman interfered, but the task was accomplished.
daggett		What about the men they arrested?
stryver		He says, and I quote, they would die before talking.
daggett		And can we get some girls in here?
catwoman		Cat got your tongue? She plucks the gun from his trembling hand.
daggett		You dumb bitch.
catwoman		Nobody ever accused me of being dumb. 
daggett		Dumb to show up here tonight.
catwoman		I want what you owe me -
daggett		'I want' never gets...
stryver		Nice outfit...those heels make it tough to walk?
catwoman		I don't know, do they?
catwoman		So where is it?
daggett		Where's what?
catwoman		The program. The 'Clean Slate'.
daggett		Oh, yeah - the ultimate tool for a master thief with a record. I don't have it. The Bodyguard bursts in, gun drawn. Catwoman, holding Daggett, spins, kicking the window with the point of her heel. The glass shatters. She pulls Daggett through the window. He screams - they drop...
catwoman		Where is it?
daggett		The 'Clean Slate'? Type in a name and date of birth and within a couple hours that person ceases to exist in any database? Little too good to be true.
catwoman		You're lying. Rykin Data took it to prototype stage -
daggett		That's why I bought them. But they had nothing. It was a gangland myth.
catwoman		Stay back! They continue to approach. One of them screws a silencer onto his gun.
catwoman		I'm not bluffing!
batman		They just don't care.
catwoman		You've got to be kidding.
batman		No guns. No killing.
catwoman		Where's the fun in that? As more mercenaries come out onto the roof, Batman runs for the far edge.
batman		Come on! Catwoman follows, confused, as Batman leaps off the roof. She gets to the edge, pauses to look down into the alley - sees the black angular roof of the Bat, cockpit open. Shots impact around her - she leaps, landing hard, but gracefully on the back of the vehicle, slides into the cockpit. As the engines thunder into life, and the canopy hisses shut, taking bullets from above.
catwoman		My mother warned me about getting into cars with strange men -
batman		This isn't a car. Catwoman flinches as the Bat thunders into the sky, downdraft forcing the Mercenaries down onto the roof, all but one, who walks slowly across the roof, strong against the wind...Bane. He watches the Bat roar off into the night.
catwoman		See you around - Batman steps down after her.
batman		You're welcome.
catwoman		I had it under control.
batman		Those weren't street thugs - they were trained killers. I saved your life. In return I need to know what you did with Bruce Wayne's fingerprints. Catwoman looks at him. Considering.
catwoman		Wayne wasn't kidding about a 'powerful friend'. I sold his prints to Daggett. For something that doesn't even exist.
batman		I doubt many people get the better of you.
catwoman		Hey, when a girl's desperate...
batman		What were they going to do with them?
catwoman		I don't know. But Daggett seemed pretty interested in that mess at the stock market. Batman considers this. A police chopper sweeps past, searching. Batman turns to it. Then turns back.
batman		Miss Kyle -? But she is gone. So that's what that feels like.
alfred		Very inconspicuous. Shall I tell the neighbors you got yourself a new leaf-blower?
wayne		We bought all the neighbors. Alfred takes the cowl from him, then the cape, as they walk.
alfred		From the look of the television coverage, you seem to have your taste for wanton destruction back.
wayne		 I retrieved this.
alfred		Shouldn't the police be gathering the evidence?
wayne		They don't have the tools to analyze it.
alfred		They would if you gave them to them
wayne		One man's tool is another man's weapon.
alfred		In your mind, perhaps. But there aren't many things you couldn't turn into a weapon.
wayne		Alfred. Enough. The police weren't getting it done -
alfred		Perhaps they would've if you haven't made a sideshow of yourself.
wayne		Perhaps you're upset you were wrong.
alfred		Wrong?
wayne		You thought I didn't have it in me. Alfred looks at him. Puts down the cape and cowl.
alfred		You don't. You lead a bloated police force on a merry chase with some fancy new toys from Fox. What about when you come up against him. What then?
wayne		I'll fight harder, I always have.
alfred		When you had something to fight for. What are you fighting for now? Not your life. Wayne moves to switch off the monitor. Alfred grabs his hand.
alfred		Take a good look. At his speed, his ferocity, His training. I see the power of belief. Of the fanatic. I see the League of Shadows resurgent.
wayne		You said he was excommunicated.
alfred		By R's al Ghl. Who leads them
wayne		R's al Ghl was the League of
wayne		Trades of some kind. Coded... The screen blanks, a thumb print appears. 
alfred		Is that -?
wayne		Mine. Courtesy of Selina Kyle.
alfred		I'll get this to Fox. But no more. Wayne hears his tone of voice. Turns to him.
alfred		I've sewn you up and set your bones...but I won't bury you. I've buried enough members of the Wayne family.
wayne		You'd abandon me?
alfred		You see only one end to your story. Leaving is all I have to make you understand: you aren't Batman anymore - you have to find another way. You used to talk about finishing. About life beyond that awful cave -
wayne		Rachel died knowing we'd decided to be together. That was my life beyond this cave and I can't just move on. She didn't. She couldn't.
alfred		What if he had? What if she wasn't intending to make a life with you?
wayne		She was, I can't change that -
alfred		What if, before she died, she'd written a letter? Explaining that she'd chosen Harvey Dent over you? Wayne watches, confused, as the old man prepares to say -
alfred		And what if, to spare you pain...I'd burned that letter? Wayne stares at Alfred, shocked.
wayne		Why would you say such a thing?
alfred		Because I have to make you understand.
wayne		You're lying.
alfred		Because you are as precious to me as you were to your own mother and father and I swore to them that I would protect you and I haven't.
wayne		You're lying!
alfred		I've never lied to you. Except when I burned Rachel's letter. Wayne turns on the old man, furious.
wayne		How dare you use Rachel to stop me!
alfred		I'm using the truth, Master Wayne. Maybe it's time we all stopped trying to outsmart the truth and just let it have its day. I'm sorry.
wayne		Sorry?! You expect to destroy my world, then shake hands?!
alfred		No. I know what this means -
wayne		What does it mean, Alfred?!
alfred		It means your hatred. It means losing the person I've cared for ever since I heard his first cries echo through this house. But it might also mean saving your life. And that is more important.
wayne		Goodbye, Alfred.
alfred		  Goodbye, Bruce. Wayne mounts the stairs...Alfred watches him go. Turns.
wayne		Alfred? But Alfred is gone.
fox		Answering your own door?
wayne		Yes. Could you decode the trades on that drive?
fox		I didn't need to. Page three. Wayne turns the page:  WAYNE DOUBLES DOWN - AND LOSES...
fox		It seems you made a series of large put options on the futures exchange. Verified by thumb print. The options expired at midnight last night. Wayne looks up from the newspaper, reeling.
fox		Long term we may be able to prove fraud, but for now...you're completely broke. And Wayne Enterprises is about to fall into the hands of John Daggett.
wayne		The weapons - we can't let Daggett get his hands on Applied Sciences -
fox		Applied Sciences is shut up tight, and off the books. The energy project is a different story.
wayne		Miranda Tate. We need to convince the board to get behind her. Let's show her the reactor -
fox		We're meeting her there in thirty-five minutes. You better get dressed.
miranda		You brought me out here to show me a rubbish dump, Mr. Fox?
fox		Bear with me, Miss Tate. They arrive at a Portakabin and enter.
fox		Keep your hands and feet inside the car at all times. He hits a button and the floor descends, Miranda is shocked as the office becomes an elevator into -
miranda		This is it, isn't it?
fox		The reactor is beneath the river so that it could be instantly flooded in an event of a security breach.
miranda		Is Bruce Wayne really that paranoid?
fox		I'm gonna plead the fifth on that one. Miranda marvels as they step off the elevator. She spots a figure deep within: Bruce Wayne.
wayne		I thought you might like to see what your investment built. 
miranda		No radiation, no fossil fuels. Free, clean energy for an entire city.
wayne		If it worked. It doesn't. Wayne leads Miranda to the core. Two perpendicular rings of electromagnets suspend a bowling-ball-sized mass of metal. Wayne hits buttons - the ball glows, then dies to cold.
wayne		Ignition, yes. But no chain reaction.
miranda		You've built a lot of security around a damp squib. Nothing. About three years ago a Russian scientist published a paper on weaponized fusion reactions. One week later your reactor started developing problems...  I think this machine works.
wayne		Miranda, if it were operational, the danger to Gotham would be too great.
miranda		Would it make you feel better to know that the Russian scientist died in a plane crash six months ago?
wayne		Someone else will work out what Dr. Pavel did. Someone else will figure out how to turn this power source into a nuclear weapon. I need you to take control of Wayne Enterprises and this reactor.
miranda		And to do what with it?
wayne		Nothing. Until we can find a way to guarantee its safety. 
miranda		And if we can't?
wayne		Decommission it. Flood it.
miranda		Destroy the world's best chance for a sustainable future?
wayne		If the world's not ready. Yes.
miranda		Bruce, if you want to save the world you have to start trusting it.
wayne		I'm trusting you.
miranda		Doesn't count. You have no choice.
wayne		I could've flooded this chamber any time in the last three years. I'm choosing to trust you, Miranda, and that's not the easiest thing for me. Please. His eyes are genuine. Pleading. Miranda nods.
fox		We have a board meeting to get to.
daggett		I'd like to point out that we have a non-board member here. Highly irregular, even if it is his family name above the door... All eyes go to Wayne. An older member of the board pipes up.
fredericks		Bruce Wayne's family built this  COMPANY - 
daggett		Into the ground, sir. Anybody disagree? Check the value of your shares this morning. Gambling on crazy futures didn't just lose Mr. Wayne his seat, it's lost us all a lot of money. He needs to leave.
fox		I'm afraid he has a point, Mr. Wayne.
wayne		I understand. Ladies and gentlemen.
daggett		Let's get down to business.
fox		Right away.
reporter		Wayne, how's it feel to be one of the people?!
company valet		I'm sorry, sir, they had paperwork  -
daggett		How the hell did Miranda Tate get the inside track on the Wayne board?! Was she meeting with Wayne? Was she sleeping with Wayne?
stryver		Not that we know of -
daggett		Clearly you don't 'know of' anything, do you?! Where's Bane?!
stryver		We told him it was urgent -
daggett		Then where is the masked -
bane		...and he shall appear.
daggett		What the hell's going on?
bane		The plan is proceeding as expected.
daggett		You see me running Wayne Enterprises?!  Your stock exchange hit didn't work, friend. And now you've got my construction crews working all hours around the city? How's that supposed to help my company absorb Wayne's?
bane		  Leave us. 
daggett		You stay right there! I'm in charge! Bane places a gentle hand on Daggett's shoulder.
bane		Do you feel in charge? Daggett is taken aback. Stryver leaves.
daggett		I've paid you a small fortune -
bane		And that gives you power over me?
daggett		What is this?
bane		Your money and infrastructure have been important. Till now.
daggett		What are you?
bane		Gotham's reckoning. Come to end the borrowed time you've all been living on...
daggett		You are true evil...
bane		I am necessary evil. Stryver, on the steps outside the living room, flinches.
blake		When you began...why the mask?
wayne		To protect the people closest to me.
blake		You're a loner with no family.
wayne		There are always people you care about. You just don't realize how much until they're gone.  The idea was to be a symbol. Batman could be anybody, that was the point.
blake		It was damn good to see him back.
wayne		Not everybody agrees.
blake		They'll figure it out in the end.
wayne		Got anything on Bane's whereabouts?
blake		Yeah, I've got five hundred pages of tunnel records and a flashlight. I could use some help.
wayne		Don't wait. I'll get a cab.
blake		You got money?
wayne		 Actually, no. Blake hands him some bills, watches him cross the street. The radio squawks. Blake reacts - drives off.
selina		He's not a mark. Jen looks at Selina. At Wayne.
selina		And he doesn't have a cent to his name, anyway.
selina		Yeah, it's not much.  But it's more that you've got right now.
wayne		Actually, they're letting me keep the house.
selina		  The rich don't even go broke same as the rest of us, huh? 
wayne		 Vacation?
selina		Let's just say that I've incurred the wrath of some people less susceptible to my charms than you.
wayne		My powerful friend hopes to change your mind about leaving.
selina		And how would he do that?
wayne		By giving you what you want.
selina		It doesn't exist.
wayne		He says it does. He wants to meet. Tonight.
selina		Why?
wayne		He needs to find Bane. He thinks you'd know how.
selina		Tell him I'll think about it. Wayne nods, starts to leave.
selina		Mr. Wayne? I'm sorry they took all your money.
wayne		No, you're not.
foley		Can we help you, officer?
blake		John Daggett's body was found in a dumpster an hour ago. I thought you might like to know.
gordon		Why?
blake		Because Daggett's name is all over the permits I pulled to map the tunnels under Gotham. Blake hands Gordon a stack of files. Foley glares at Blake.
blake		MTA maintenance, sewer construction...
gordon		Get more men, work a grid. I want him found.
foley		Yeah, yeah - the masked man. We're on it.
gordon		This is good work. Lose the uniform - you're working for me now. We could use some hotter heads around here.
blake		This could just be a coincidence.
gordon		You're a detective now, son, you're not allowed to believe in coincidence anymore. Blake tries to conceal his excitement from Foley.
wayne		No. I'm on my own now.
miranda		Do you have keys? Wayne looks a little helpless all of a sudden.
wayne		Never needed them... She takes his hand.
miranda		Let's find a window.
miranda		Fox worked the board like you've never seen - I'm in, Daggett's out and he's not happy. Wayne sets down the newspaper:
wayne		Hope you don't like me for your money. Miranda kicks off her shoes. Glances at the paper.
miranda		Suffering builds character. Then at a photo of Wayne's parents.
miranda		I'll take care of your parents' legacy, Bruce. Miranda picks up a photo of Rachel.
miranda		Who's this? Wayne looks at her. Can't find words...
miranda		Where's Alfred?
wayne		He left. Taking everything. Miranda puts the photo down. Kisses him. Passionately. Then again. He kisses back. Suddenly the lights go out.
miranda		What's that?
wayne		  I think my power's been shut off.
wayne		You're pretty good at that.
miranda		When I was a child we had almost nothing. But on the nights we had a fire, we felt very rich indeed. She returns to him, pulling a blanket around both of them. 
wayne		I assumed your family was wealthy.
miranda		Not always. Not when I was young.
miranda		An old mistake.
wayne		I've made a few myself. She turns to him, tracing the scars across his chest.
miranda		More than a few...  We could leave. Tonight. Take my plane. Go anywhere we wanted.
wayne		Someday perhaps. Not tonight. She pulls him close. He kisses her. They fold into each other, the warm heart at the center of a vast, cold room.
catwoman		Don't be shy.
catwoman		Wayne says you can get me the 'Clean Slate'.
batman		That depends.
catwoman		On what?
batman		On what you want it for. I acquired it to keep it out of the wrong hands.
catwoman		Still don't trust me, huh? How can we change that?
batman		Start by taking me to Bane.
catwoman		From here, Bane's men patrol the tunnels...and they are not your average brawlers.
batman		Neither am I. Catwoman swings into a -
catwoman		He's behind you.
mercenary		  Who? Batman hangs upside down behind him.
catwoman		Just a little further. A grate slams down, separating them - the lights come on. He is deep inside.
catwoman		I had to find a way to stop them trying to kill me.
batman		You've made a serious mistake.
batman		Bane.
bane		Let's not stand on ceremony here, Mr. Wayne.
bane		Peace has cost you strength. Victory has defeated you.
bane		Theatricality and deception are powerful agents...to the uninitiated. Batman lashes out at Bane - Bane counters - they separate.
bane		But we are initiated, aren't we, Bruce? The League of Shadows. And you betrayed us...
batman		Us? You were excommunicated. From a gang of psychopaths.
bane		Now I am the League of Shadows, here to fulfill R's al Ghl's
bane		You fight like a younger man. Nothing held back. No reserves. Admirable. But mistaken. Batman hits a switch on his belt - the lights go out - Bane turns slowly addressing all the shadows at once.
bane		You think darkness is your ally. But you merely adopted the dark. I was born in it. Formed by it...
bane		I didn't see the light until I was already a man. And by then it was nothing to me but blinding...
bane		The shadows betray you, because they belong to me...
bane		I will show you where I've made my home while preparing to bring justice. Then...I will break you.
batman		No...
bane		Your precious armory. Gratefully accepted. We will need it.
bane		I wondered which would break first - your spirit...
blake		  Get Commissioner Gordon. Tell him I've got a line on the Congressman's kidnapping.
uniform		Excuse me, Miss. I need to see your ticket and identification, please.
selina		Would you mind?
blake		I showed your picture to the Congressman and guess what?
selina		Don't tell me, still in love?
blake		Head over heels. Pressing charges, though. Blake lays a police file down with a thump. You've made some mistakes, Ms. Kyle.
selina		Girl's gonna eat.
blake		You have an appetite. Why run? You can't hide from us with this record.
selina		Maybe it's not you I'm running from.
blake		Who then? Bane? What do you know about him?
selina		  That you should be as afraid of him as I am. 
blake		We can offer you protection... Selina looks at him with contempt. Blake shrugs, switches off the tape, moves to the door.
blake		When I spotted you, I was looking for a friend...Bruce Wayne. Selina turns to look at Blake. His eyes plead with her.
blake		Did they kill him?
selina		I'm not sure.
wayne		Why didn't you just kill me?
bane		You don't fear death. You welcome it. Your punishment is to be more severe.
bane		Yes. But not of your body. Of your soul. Wayne exhales. Eyes losing focus from sheer pain.
wayne		Where am I?
bane		Home.
guard		We're locking her up in here?
warden		The Dent Act allows non-segregation based on extraordinary need. First time she broke out of women's correctional she was sixteen. Selina passes a Huge Inmate who strains through the bars...
huge inmate		Little closer, baby...
selina		Why, honey, you wanna hold my hand?
warden		She'll be just fine.
fox		I don't see the need for a board meeting on the energy project -
miranda		Bruce got a lot of things right. Keeping the board in the dark wasn't one of them... Fox swings the doors to the boardroom open...
bane		This meeting is called to order. Fox and Miranda freeze. Staring at the mask.
bane		Chair and President. I also need one ordinary member - Mr. Fox, would you care to nominate?
fredericks		No. I volunteer. The dignified older board member gets to his feet. Mercernaries round the three up.
fox		Where are you taking us?
bane		Where you buried your resources. The bowels of Gotham.
gordon		So you think our friend is gone again?
foley		Okay, Commissioner, you were right.
gordon		What's happened?
foley		Your masked man kidnapped the Wayne Enterprises board. He let most of them go, but took three down into the sewers.
gordon		No more patrols, no more hide and seek. Send every available cop down there to smoke him out. 
foley		The Mayor won't want panic -
blake		So it's a training exercise.
foley		I'm sorry for not taking you
gordon		Don't apologize for believing the world's in better shape then it is...just fight to make it true.
gordon		Not you. You're telling me the Batman's gone. So you chase up the Daggett leads, any way you can.
prisoner		He asks if you would pay us to let you die. I told him you have nothing.
wayne		Do it for the pleasure.
prisoner		They pay me more than that to keep you alive.
prisoner		He will try the climb. Strong Man starts scaling the wall. The Prisoners' chant grows stronger as he climbs towards the light.
wayne		Has anyone made it?
prisoner		Of course not.
wayne		What does he say?
prisoner		He says there is one who did. A child... INSERT CUT: a child of about ten looks up towards the light.
prisoner		A child who had been born in this hell...
wayne		Bane.
prisoner		An old legend. Nothing more. The Prisoner leaves Wayne's cell - switches on the TV.
wayne		Don't.
prisoner		Whatever they want you to see...it's happening soon.
bane		Turn it on.
bane		I only need one other board member. There are eight more waiting upstairs.
fox		I won't do it. Fredericks trembles. Bane cocks the weapon.
miranda		Alright, stop. She walks up to the scanner. Places her hand on it. It beeps. She turns to Fox. Quietly pleading. 
miranda		Lucius, you'll kill this man and yourself, and barely slow them down. Fox reluctantly puts his hand on the scanner. Then Fredericks. The core glows brighter and brighter. Dr. Pavel is transfixed.
bane		Do your work. Bane turns to his men. Gestures at the hostages. Take them to the surface. People of their status deserve to see the next era of western civilization. Fox, Miranda and Fredericks are led back into the rubble.
reporter		We're seeing literally thousands of police heading into the sewers -
mayor		A training exercise, that's all. If you'll excuse me, I've got tickets to watch our boys thrash Rapid City. The Mayor heads into the stadium with the crowds...
blake		I've been to half Daggett's cement plants, logged locations they've poured for underground construction...
blake		Honestly, Commissioner, I don't know anything about civil engineering.
gordon		But you know about patterns. Keep looking. Blake pulls up in front of a cement plant.
bane		 Pull the core out of the reactor.
bane		Five, by my calculations.
bane		For the sake of your family, Dr. Pavel, I hope so.
worker		Boss is about to leave. Blake walks past cement mixers. Spots someone. A Driver.
blake		Hey. The Driver turns.
blake		That was you outside the stock exchange, right?
driver		When?
blake		When? When half the city's cops were trying to pull onto Castle Street and your truck shut them out.
driver		Oh yeah. You're that cop -
blake		Detective, now.
blake		And as a detective...I'm not allowed to believe in coincidences
blake		What were you doing?! What?!
blake		Commissioner, I'm at the Fourteenth Street plant with two dead witnesses and a lot of questions. Call me -
blake		Oh, God.
blake		Patch me into Foley!
blake		They're heading into a trap!
foley		Foley.
blake		It's a trap! Pull everyone out! Bane's been pouring concrete laced with explosives -
foley		Where?
blake		There's a ring around the tunnels - they're gonna blow it and trap the cops underground! Foley looks up with dread at the mouth of the tunnel.
foley		Pull out! Pull 'em out!
bane		Let the games begin. The Mercenaries hit the detonators.
bane		Gotham, take control of your city...
blake		Foley?
gordon		Get my coat, son.
bane		This is the instrument of your liberation...
analyst		Satellite shows a radiation spike...
analyst 2		Whatever it is...it's nuclear.
bane		Identify yourself to the world.
cia analyst		Pavel was confirmed dead - plane crash on an Agency pull-out of Uzbekistan... But it certainly looks like him - He points to a monitor with a photo of Dr. Pavel. An Air Force General rubs his chin, thinking, nervous.
bane		Tell the world what this is.
bane		And who can disarm this device?
bane		Thank you, Doctor. Bane snaps Dr. Pavel's neck in front of the world.
bane		The bomb is armed, the bomb is mobile, the identity of the triggerman is a mystery. One of you holds the detonator - we come not as conquerors, but as liberators to return control of this city to the people. At the first sign of interference from the outside world or of people attempting to flee, this anonymous Gothamite, this unsung hero, will trigger the bomb. For now, martial law is in effect. Return to your homes, hold your families close, and wait. Tomorrow you claim what is rightfully yours. Bane turns, leaves the field, followed by his men.
general		Pull back the fighters, start high-level reconnaissance flights. And get the President on the line.
lead mercenary		Tanks and planes cannot stop us detonating our device. Send an emissary to discuss terms of access for supplies and communication.
captain		How many of you are there, son?  You don't have enough men to stop twelve million people leaving that island.
lead mercenary		We don't. But you do.
captain		Why in the hell would we help you keep your hostages?
lead mercenary		If people start crossing this bridge Gotham gets blown to hell. The Captain considers this. Troubled.
president		  The people of our greatest city are resilient. They have proven this before, they will prove this again... 
blake		What does that mean?
gordon		It means we're on our own. I have to get in front of a camera -
blake		Sir, they'll kill you the second you show your face -
gordon		The Mayor's dead. I'm the symbol of law and order. Bane says he's giving Gotham back to the people - they need to know that I could lead.
blake		Bane's not gonna let that happen -
gordon		Then he'll show his true colors.
blake		And you'll be dead.
bane		Behind you stands a symbol of oppression. Blackgate Prison...
bane		Harvey Dent. Held up to you, and over you, as a shining example of justice and good...
blake		We're gonna keep moving you, till we can get you in front of a camera  -
bane		But they supplied you a false idol. A straw man. To placate. To stop you tearing down this corrupt city...
bane		Let me tell you the truth about Harvey Dent. In the words of Gotham's Police Commissioner, James Gordon...
bane		'The truth about Harvey Dent is simple in only one regard - it has been hidden for too long. After his devastating injuries, Harvey's mind has recovered no better than his mutilated face. He was a broken, dangerous man, not the crusader for justice that I, James Gordon, have portrayed him to be for the last eight years. Harvey's rage was indiscriminate. Psychopathic. He held my family at gunpoint, then fell to his death in the struggle over my son's life. The Batman did not murder Harvey Dent - he saved
bane		'The things we did in Harvey's name brought desperately needed security to our streets... But I can no longer live with my lie. It is time to trust the people of Gotham with the truth, and it is time for me to resign.'
bane		Do you accept the resignation of all the liars?! All the corrupt?! More and more of the crowd is chanting 'Yes!' 
blake		These men, locked up in Blackgate for eight years, denied parole under the Dent Act. Based on a lie.
gordon		A lie to keep a city from burning to the ground. Gotham needed a hero, someone to believe in -
blake		Not as much as it does now. But you betrayed everything you stood for.
gordon		 There's a point. Far out there. When the structures fail you. When the rules aren't weapons anymore, they're shackles, letting the bad get ahead. Maybe one day you'll have such a moment of crisis. And in that moment, I hope you have a friend like I did. To plunge their hands into the filth so you can keep yours clean.
blake		Your hands look pretty filthy to me, Commissioner.
bane		We take Gotham from the corrupt. The rich. The oppressors of generations who've kept you down with the myth of opportunity. And we give it to you, the people. Gotham is yours - none shall interfere. Do as you please...
prisoner		He says you must first straighten your back. The Prisoner helps Wayne roll over, painfully. 
wayne		How would he know?
prisoner		He was the prison doctor. A morphine addict who incurred the displeasure of powerful people. Including your masked friend.
wayne		How?
prisoner		Many years ago, during a time of plague, Bane was attacked by other prisoners. The doctor's fumbling attempts to repair the damage left him in perpetual agony. The mask holds his pain at bay.
wayne		Is Bane the child you spoke of? Was he born here?
prisoner		The legend is that there was a mercenary working for the local warlord who fell in love with his daughter. They married in secret.
prisoner		When the warlord found out, he condemned the mercenary to this pit. But then exiled him instead. INSERT CUT: the Mercenary is dropped at the side of a barren road. He starts to walk.
prisoner		The mercenary understood that the warlord's daughter had secured his release, but he couldn't know the true price of his freedom. She had taken his place in the pit.
prisoner		And she was with the child. The mercenary's child.
prisoner		One day the doctor forgot the lock the cell... INSERT CUT: Prisoners move into the cell towards his mother. The child runs at them with a knife...
prisoner		Innocence cannot flower underground. It was to be stamped out. But the child had a friend. A protector...
prisoner		...who showed the others that this innocence was their redemption. The mother was not so lucky. The Blind Prisoner shouts at the Prisoner. He nods.
prisoner		This is Bane's prison now. Bane would not want this story told. The Prisoner pulls - Wayne screams in pain as he is pulled upright. The Prisoner ties him off. Checks his spine. You have a protruding vertebra...I'm going to force it back...
wayne		How -?
prisoner		You stay like this. Until you stand.
wayne		I watched you die.
wayne		You were the mercenary. Bane is your child. Your heir. INSERT CUT: the Mercenary at the side of the road. R's.
wayne		No...
wayne		 NO!
blake		For the bus in case there's a chance to evacuate. Keep it in here - people are siphoning parked cars.
father reilly		Really?
father reilly		Right. Any news? Is the
blake		Less you know, Father. How're the boys? 
father reilly		Power's been on more, so they get some TV.
jen		Who's that?
selina		This was someone's home.
jen		Now it's everyone's home.
jen		'Storm's coming', remember? This is what you wanted.
selina		No. It's what I thought I wanted.
prisoner		Why build yourself?
wayne		I'm not meant to die in here. The Prisoner indicates the TV: 
prisoner		Here? There? What's the difference? Wayne ignores this. Focuses on his body...
prisoner		I told you it could not be done.
wayne		You told me a child did it...
prisoner		No ordinary child... INSERT CUT: the Protector fights off prisoners as the Child, older now, moves to the climbing wall A child born in hell. INSERT CUT: the Child makes the climb...pauses, looking down - making eye-contact with the Protector, who fights off Prisoners... They swarm over the Protector, knives drawn. A child forged by suffering, hardened by pain... INSERT CUT: the Child leaps across the abyss, grabbing a handhold on the ledge and swinging up... Not a man from privilege.
foley		You have ID?  SPECIAL FORCES 1 Of course not.
foley		How can we trust you?  GORDON  We don't have any choice.
gordon		Captain, glad to have you here. 
captain jones		How many of you are there?
gordon		Dozens. I'd rather not say exactly. But the men trapped underground number almost three thousand.
captain jones		What kind of shape they're in?
gordon		They've been getting water, food.
captain jones		Could we break them out?
blake		Yes, sir - take out the mercenaries guarding the outflow south of Ackerman Park, blow the rubble, you've got a hole big enough for ten at a time. I'm in contact with my partner - they're waiting for the day.  SPECIAL FORCES 2 Men who haven't seen daylight for three months?
blake		Men with automatic weapons who haven't seen daylight in three months.
captain jones		What about the bomb? The satellites can't see any radiation hot spots...
captain jones		What about the triggerman?
gordon		No leads. It's a bluff - Bane wouldn't give control of that bomb to someone else.
captain jones		We can't take that chance. Until we have the triggerman, we just track the device, smuggle men over -
blake		While Gotham lives under a warlord, like in some failed state?
captain jones		Dial it back, officer. This situation is unprecedented. We can't do anything to risk millions of lives.
gordon		Captain, things are more complicated than you think. There's somebody you need to meet. Blake? Blake nods, leads Jones and his men up the stairs.
blake		I was up here looking for a vantage point. Found the people who run the corporation who owns it living here.
captain jones		Which corporation?
blake		Captain, meet Mr. Fox. Mr. Fox, I'd like you to brief the Captain. Captain Jones indicates Miranda.
fox		Miss Tate is fully aware of the situation.
miranda		And as CEO of Wayne Enterprises, I have to take responsibility for it.
captain jones		Why?
miranda		Because, Captain, we built it.
captain jones		You built the bomb?
fox		It was built as a fusion reactor. The first of its kind. Bane turned the core into a bomb, then disconnected it from the reactor. 
blake		And here's the important part.
fox		As the device's fuel cells decay, it's becoming increasingly unstable...until the point of detonation.
blake		The bomb's a time bomb.
fox		And it will go off. In twenty-three days. Captain Jones reels at this news.
blake		Bane's revolution is a sham. He's watching Gotham rearrange its deckchairs while the whole ship's going down. Your appeasement plan might not be as practical as you thought. Captain Jones throws Blake a look. Addresses Fox.
captain jones		Could you disarm it?
fox		I don't know, But I could reconnect it to the reactor. Stabilize it.
captain jones		We'd have to let the Pentagon know.
captain jones		We have no choice. Let's move away from this location, then call it in.
blake		Fox, somebody sold us out! Fox and Miranda burst into the corridor.
fox		Take Miranda - Blake grabs Miranda, heads for the back stairs. Mercenaries jump out of the elevator, firing high.
mercernary		 DOWN ON THE FLOOR! Fox freezes. Lowers himself to the ground.
captain jones		I'll die before I talk...
bane		I'm on your schedule, Captain.
mercernary		There were people living upstairs.
bane		Give them over for judgement.  Hang them where the world will see.
prisoner		He says the leap to freedom is not about strength.
wayne		My body makes the jump.
wayne		My soul's as ready to escape as my body.
blind prisoner		Fear is why you fail.
wayne		I'm not afraid. I'm angry.
skinny prisoner		Shouldn't you get him down? The Prisoner glances up at Wayne, disdainful.
prisoner		He'll keep. As Wayne drifts into unconsciousness we - INSERT CUT: Young Bruce lies at the bottom of the well, looking up at his father, lowering down to rescue him.  THOMAS WAYNE  And why do we fall?
wayne		Why?
blind prisoner		How can you move faster then possible? Fight longer than possible? If not from the most powerful impulse of the spirit. The fear of death. The will to survive. Wayne gets up onto his elbow. Looks at the Blind Prisoner.
wayne		I do fear death. I fear dying in here while my city burns with no one there to save it.
blind prisoner		Then make the climb.
wayne		How?
blind prisoner		As the child did. Without the rope.  Then fear will find you again. Wayne considers this.
prisoner		Supplies for your journey? Prisoners nearby laugh. Wayne moves to the cliff face. The Prisoner follows, intrigued by Wayne's new demeanor. The Tattooed Prisoner offers him the rope. Wayne refuses. Starts to climb. Prisoners gather around as word spreads. Wayne makes his way cautiously up the treacherous rock face. Down below the Prisoners start a low chant. As Wayne hoists himself up onto the precipice something EXPLODES from the cliff face. Wayne flinches - BATS... They circle up to the opening above... Wayne closes his eyes. The chant RISES. Wayne takes a breath...opens his eyes...looks down at the drop...up again...then he jumps.
stryver		I want to see Bane! There's been a mistake! Take me to Bane! Fox watches him dragged upstairs...
stryver		There's been a mistake! Where's Bane?!
crane		You are Philip Stryver, executive vice-president of Daggett Industries?  The same Philip Stryver who for years lived like a prince off the blood and sweat of people less powerful?
stryver		Call Bane! I'm one of you! Jeers. Pull back to reveal a silent figure, watching. Bane.
crane		Bane has no authority here. This is merely a sentencing hearing. The choice is yours, death or exile. Stryver looks around, terrified, as the crowd shouts 'Death'.
stryver		Exile.
blackgate inmate		Follow the tick ice. Try to swim - you're dead in minutes.
stryver		Has anyone made it? The Blackgate Inmate turns away. Stryver is forced onto the ice. He shuffles forward, listening to the creaking... Stryver is a hundred yards out when the river swallows him.
gordon		Where the hell are they? It's not like we have a lot of time, here.
cop		How long?
gordon		The bomb goes off tomorrow. We've got about eighteen hours to do something.
cop		To do what?
gordon		We mark that truck. Get a GPS on it, then we can start thinking about how to take it down. The door opens and Blake enters, followed by ten cops. Gordon is counting them in. He moves to Blake.
gordon		  That's it? Blake just looks at him. Gordon checks the faces. Realizes.
gordon		Foley. Where's Foley, dammit?! Gordon heads for the door. 
blake		You shouldn't be out on the streets  -
foley's wife		Jim. He's not here -
gordon		You're sending your wife to the door when the city's under occupation?! Foley appears at the end of the corridor. Ashamed.
foley		Wait in the kitchen, honey.
gordon		What did you do, bury your uniform in the backyard?
foley		Jim, you saw what they did to those Special Forces.
gordon		You forgotten all the years we went out on patrol with every gangbanger wanting to plant one as soon as our backs were turned?
foley		This is different and you know it. These guys run the city - the government's done a deal with them
gordon		Deal?! Bane's got their balls in a vice. That's not a deal -
foley		You move against Bane, the triggerman's gonna hit the button -
gordon		You think he's given control of that bomb to one of 'the people'?! You think this is part of some revolution? There's one man with his finger on the button - Bane.
foley		We have to keep our heads down until they can fix this. If you still had family here maybe you'd -
gordon		This only gets fixed from inside the city, Foley.  Look, I'm not asking you to walk down Grand in your dress blues. But we've got to do something before this maniac blows us all to hell.
foley		I'm sorry Jim. I gotta -
gordon		Keep your head down? What's that gonna do tomorrow, when that thing blows?
foley		You don't know that's going to happen. Foley closes the door on Gordon. Gordon stands there.
miranda		How about me, instead?
gordon		Miss Tate, I can't ask you -
miranda		My company built it.
gordon		Bruce Wayne built it.
miranda		And he wanted to destroy it. It was me who didn't listen. Please. Gordon looks at Blake. Then Miranda. Nods.
gordon		Let's go.
gangbanger		You steal from us, you little bastard? They grab the Kid's backpack, the Gangbanger pulls out an apple, moves to hit the Kid when - SMACK! - his hand is grabbed, and the apple flies into the air as his arm cracks. Selina catches the apple.
selina		You boys know you can't come into my neighborhood without asking politely.
selina		Never steal anything from someone you can't outrun, kid.
kid		Now you're gonna take it.
selina		Just tax. She tosses him the apple. He takes it and runs.
selina		You came back. I thought they'd killed you.
wayne		Not yet.
selina		If you're expecting an apology -
wayne		It wouldn't suit you. I need your help.
selina		And why would I help you?
wayne		For this. The 'Clean Slate'.
selina		You're gonna trust me with that? After what I did to you?
wayne		I admit I felt a little let down. But I still think there's more to you. In fact, I think for you -  this isn't a tool, it's an escape route. You want to disappear. Start fresh.
selina		Start fresh? I can't even get off this island.
wayne		I can give you a way off. Once you've gotten me to Lucius Fox. I need you to find out where they're holding him. Then take me in.
selina		Why do you need Fox?
wayne		To save this city.
selina		Who says it needs saving? Maybe I like it this way.
wayne		Maybe you do. But tomorrow that bomb's going off.
selina		Get your powerful friend on the case.
wayne		I'm trying. But I need Fox.
gordon		Stay further up the block.  They're gonna cross the street and try and slow the truck down. As it approaches, hit this button. If the needle hits two hundred - give me the signal and I mark the truck. Okay?
blake		  Heads up.
gordon		Got it.
mercenary		Commissioner Gordon, you're under arrest.
gordon		On whose authority?
mercernary		The people of Gotham.
miranda		Bruce?
fox		You picked a hell of a time to go on vacation, Mr. Wayne.
wayne		How long until the core ignites?
fox		That bomb goes off in twelve hours.
wayne		Unless we can connect it to the reactor.
fox		If you can get it there. I'll find a way to plug it back in.  Can you get Miranda out?
wayne		Not tonight. I'm sorry.
miranda		Do what's necessary.
fox		What for?
wayne		To get me back in the game. Catwoman comes down the stairs with the Thugs.
catwoman		Sorry to spoil things, boys, but Bane wants these guys himself... The thugs pull Wayne and Fox to their feet - Miranda looks up.
wayne		I won't forget about you.
miranda		I know.
fox		I like your girlfriend, Mr. Wayne.
catwoman		He should be so lucky. And she's gone. Fox turns to Wayne. Who shrugs.
wayne		Any move I make against Bane or the bomb - the triggerman sets it off.
fox		They can't be using radio or cell - too much interference. Infrared doesn't have the range. It could only be micro-burst long wave... Wayne opens a panel in the wall, takes out equipment: mini-mines, Batarangs, utility belt...
wayne		Could you block it?
fox		Yes. I need the EMP cannon-guidance mount from the Bat. You remember where you parked? Wayne nods. Smiles. The Batsuit rises from the floor...
crane		The charges are espionage and attempted sabotage... Do you have anything to say in your defense?
gordon		No lawyer, no witnesses. What sort of due process is this?
crane		More than you give Harvey's prisoners, Commissioner. Your guilt is determined, this is merely a sentencing hearing. What's it to be, death or exile?
gordon		Crane, if you think we are going willingly out onto that ice, you've got another think coming.
crane		Death, then?
gordon		Looks that way.
crane		Very well... Death...  By exile.
bane		Bring her to me.
lucius		I think it's time to talk about my year-end bonus...
fox		She fly pretty well?
wayne		Even without the autopilot...
fox		Autopilot? That's what you're there for.
foley's kids		Dad! Check it out!
foley's wife		Honey, take a look! Foley moves to a back window. Sees the flaming sign.
mercenary		Sir?
mercenary		You think it's really him?
bane		Impossible...
batman		This blocks the remote detonator signal to the bomb. Get it onto the truck by sunrise. They might hit the button when it starts.
gordon		When what starts?
batman		War.
blake		You missed a spot. Batman boots him in the head as he moves towards Blake.
batman		If you're working alone, wear a mask.
blake		No one cares who I am.
batman		The mask is not for you. It's to protect the people you care about.
blake		Huh. And you always seem to know where those people are. How is that?
batman		I lost someone once. Since then I break into their homes when they're sleeping and implant a tracking device on the back of their neck.
batman		On three - one, two, three - They throw the mini-mines at the rubble of the entrance - the blasts barely move any rubble.
blake		No offense, but you got anything bigger in that belt?
batman		That's to warn the men on the other side. Batman disappears into the shadows.
blake		But how do we -? KAABOOOM! The Bat's cannons light up the night.
blake		Okay.
blake		What now?
batman		All-out assault on Bane...but you need to get the people you care about across the bridge.
blake		Why?
batman		In case we fail. Lead an exodus across the bridge. Save as many lives as you can.
blake		Don't you need me here?
batman		You've given me an army. Now go. Blake nods. Turns to leave. Stops. 
blake		Thank you.
batman		Don't thank me yet.
blake		I might not get a chance later.
catwoman		Oh, you shouldn't have... She hops on, feeling the controls.
batman		The mid-town tunnel's blocked by debris, but the cannons give you enough firepower to make a path for people.
batman		To start it, you -
catwoman		I got it.
batman		We've got forty-five minutes to save this city -
catwoman		No, I've got forty-five minutes to get clear of the blast radius, because you don't stand a chance against these guys.
batman		With your help I might.
catwoman		I'll open that tunnel, then I'm gone.
batman		There's more to you than that. She stares back at him. Facade slipping a touch.
catwoman		Sorry to keep letting you down. He says nothing. She looks at him, imploring. Come with me. Save yourself. You don't owe these people anymore - you've given them everything...
batman		Not everything. Not yet.
foley		There's only one police in this city. He steps forward. The line follows.
bane		Open fire.
gordon		Come on, come on...
bane		You came back. To die with your city.
batman		No. I came back to stop you.
gordon		That's impossible... Come on! Cut over to Fifth!
blake		Knock on doors, spread the word - the bomb's going to blow! Get out by the South Street tunnel, or over the bridge! Do two blocks, then get back to the bus! The boys race down the street. Father Reilly climbs into the bus.
bane		Stay back. He is mine - Bane SMASHES Batman's head - moves in for the kill, but Batman SMASHES Bane to the ground, RIPS sideways across the tubes of Bane's mask with the blades of his forearm. Bane bellows, thrashing in AGONY. Batman holds him down with a hand on his throat - searches him with his free hand.
batman		Give me the trigger! You'd never give it to an ordinary citizen - Bane's thrashing calms as he stares at Batman through pain-soaked eyes...gasping through his broken mask for relief.
bane		I broke you. How have you come back?
batman		You thought you were the only one who could learn the strength to escape? Bane looks at Batman, curiosity behind his pain.
bane		I never escaped - R's al Ghl  A U rescued me. That is why I must fulfill his plan. That is why I must avenge his murder.
batman		  But he is not the child of R's al  A Ghl...  U Batman flinches, frozen as Miranda leans into his ear... 
miranda		I am. Miranda has a knife through Batman's suit, into his ribs... And though I am not 'ordinary', I am a citizen...
bane		Goodbye. Then is overrun.
talia		I climbed out of the pit... INSERT CUT: Young Talia stands by the hole looking out at the landscape... I found my father and brought him back to exact terrible vengeance - but by that time...the prisoners and the doctor had done their work to my friend...my protector... Talia reaches up to touch Bane's mask.
talia		The League took us in. Trained us...
talia		He saw only a monster who could never be tamed. Whose very existence was a reminder of the hell he'd left his wife to die in. He excommunicated Bane from the League of Shadows. His only crime was that he loved me. I could not truly forgive my father... Talia looks at Batman, cold. Until you murdered him.
batman		He was trying to kill millions of innocent people -
talia		'Innocent' is a strong word to throw around Gotham, Bruce. I honor my father by finishing his work. Vengeance against the man who killed him is simply a reward for my patience...
batman		Your knife may have been too slow... A Mercenary steps forward -
mercenary		The truck's under attack - Talia looks around, mind racing.
talia		Gordon.  Prepare a convoy. We must secure the bomb until it detonates. Talia jumps to her feet. Bane grabs a shotgun from a Mercenary - points it at Batman.
talia		Not yet... I want him to feel the heat.  Feel the fire of twelve million souls you failed. Talia reaches up to Bane's mask, reconnects his tubes, tenderly. Goodbye, my friend. Bane nods at her, slowly. Talia moves out with the Mercenaries.
bane		You'll have to imagine the fire -
catwoman		The whole no-guns thing? I don't feel as strongly about it as you do.
uniform		Stay there! What are you doing?!
uniform		Safety?! You're gonna get us all killed. Anyone crosses this bridge they blow the city - 
blake		It's gonna blow anyway. We need this bridge open right now.
uniform		No one leaves the island. Orders -
blake		Whose orders? Bane's?
uniform		Police Department's.
blake		Haven't you heard the shooting? The Batman's battling it out with Bane
uniform		The Batman's dead. Look, Officer -
blake		It's Detective -
uniform		Well, Detective, you take one more step, we have to shoot you. Two more steps, we have to blow the bridge.
blake		 Wait for me back at the bus. The Boys walk back down the bridge...
batman		I need you on the ground, me in the air, we have to force that convoy east, to the entrance to the  REACTOR - 
blake		Your orders are out of date! The situation's changed! Listen, I'm a cop like you. And I'm walking out there. Please don't shoot me. Blake walks. Shots ring out at his feet. He keeps walking...
uniform		Son-of-a-bitch!  Blow it! Before he reaches the line
uniform		Get down! We're blowing the bridge! As Blake looks, disbelieving, the bridge in front of him blasts upwards in a massive fireball. Blake dives backwards. 
blake		You idiots! You sons of bitches! You're killing us!!
blake		Father! Get the boys on the bus -
father reilly		But there's nowhere to go, son. 
talia		Pushing us to the entrance of the reactor. They're going to try and reconnect the core.
gordon		Give me a hand! The Bat lands at the tunnel mouth. Gordon moves in to try and grab the core but it is too hot. Let's get a cable on it and drag it out! Come on, we're almost there - Laughter. Gordon turns. Talia, lying half out the truck. Dying.
talia		Fox showed me how to operate the reactor core. Including the emergency flood -
talia		There is no way to stop this bomb. Prepare yourselves...  My father's work is done.
gordon		What're you doing?
batman		Two minutes. I can fly it out over the bay...
catwoman		Rig it out to fly over the water, then bail -
batman		No autopilot. She takes this in. He stands to face her.
catwoman		You could've gone anywhere. Been anything. But you came back here.
batman		So did you.
catwoman		I guess we're both suckers. She puts her arms around his neck. Kisses him. Batman moves to the Bat, Gordon alongside.
gordon		So this is the part where you vanish, only this time you don't come back?
blake		Come on! On the bus!
father reilly		What're you doing?
blake		Protection from the blast -
father reilly		It's an atom bomb -!
blake		You think they need to hear that in their last seconds? You think I'm going to let them die without hope?
gordon		I never cared who you were -
batman		And you were right.
gordon		But shouldn't the people know the hero who saved them?
batman		A hero can be anyone. That was always the point.
gordon		Bruce Wayne? - but is dusted by downdraft as the Bat RISES. Gordon LEAPS out of the way as the core is dragged along and out of the tunnel mouth.
blake		Heads down! Heads down, now!
father reilly		Blake, they need to make their peace. Blake turns to him, furious.
blake		They're children! They have no peace to make - An EXPLOSION from downtown Gotham. Blake looks across, startled, turns to the children on the bus. Get down! This is it! The smallest of the boys stares through the window past Blake.
little boy		No. That's Batman! Blake turns to see the Bat thundering out of the heart of Gotham, trailing smoke, the core hanging from it. It curves dangerously close to the bridge before heading for the mouth of the river...the bay...the ocean... Until a point of light fires into an enormous nuclear BLAST - wind and light and dust blowing VIOLENTLY but harmlessly over the bridge, the tunnel mouth, all of Gotham...
gordon		'I see that I hold a sanctuary in their hearts, and in the hearts of their descendants, generations hence. It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done...' Gordon closes the book, looking down at Bruce Wayne's grave. 'It is a far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known.'
alfred		I'm so sorry. I failed you. You trusted me, and I failed you. And the old man's shoulders begin to shake with sobs.
gordon		Can I change your mind about quitting the force?
blake		No. What you said about structures. About shackles. I can't take it. The injustice.  I mean...no one's ever going to know who saved an entire city.
gordon		They know.  It was Batman.
lawyer		Nonetheless, there are considerable assets to dispose of... The contents of the house are to be
lawyer		The house and grounds are left to the city of Gotham, on condition that they never be demolished, altered, or otherwise interfered
lawyer		My clerk will help anyone with the smaller correspondences and instructions... Blake approaches the Clerk. She smiles.
blake		Blake, John.
blake		Try my legal name.
clerk		Yup, here it is.
clerk		You should use your full name. I like that name... Robin.
lawyer		Any word on the missing item?
clerk		No, not yet.
lawyer		Well, they'd better leave no stone unturned... We can't just put a string of pearls on the manifest as 'lost'.
tech 1		Why worry about the stabilization software? This whole autopilot system's obsolete -
fox		Please, I just need to know what I could've done to fix it.
tech 2		But Mr. Fox, it's already been fixed.  Software patch...six months ago.
tech 2		Huh. Bruce Wayne.
waiter		Lei e solo?
alfred		Si, Fernet Branca, per cortesia.
****Dialogues from script :Dark_Star.txt****

narrator		 It is the mid 22nd Century.  Mankind has explored the boundaries of his own solar system, and now he reaches out to the endless interstellar distances of the universe.  He moves away from his own small planetary system in huge hyperdrive starships: computer-driven, self-supporting, closed-system spacecraft that travel at mind-staggering post-light velocities.  Man has begun to spread among the stars.  Enormous ships embark with generations of colonists searching the depths of space for new earths, now homes, new beginnings.  Far in advance of these colony ships goes a new pioneer: the scouts, the pathfinders, a special breed of man who has dedicated his life to blazing the trail through the most distant, unexplored galaxies, opening up the farthest frontiers of space.  These are the men of the Advance Exploration Corps.  The task they face is one of unbelievable isolation and loneliness.  So far from home that Earth is no longer even a point of light in the sky, they must comb the universe for those unstable planets whose existence poses a threat to the peaceful colonists that follow. They must find these rogue planets -- and destroy them.  Among these commandos are the men of the scoutship Dark Star.
doolittle		 Ah, what'd you say, Pinback?
pinback		 Mafhkin oble groop...
doolittle		 Ah, what was that again, I still can't hear you?
pinback		 I said I'm trying to reach Talby. Something's wrong with the damn intercom.  I need a last-minute diameter approximation.
doolittle		 Talby, Talby, this is Doolittle.  Do you read me?  Talby?
doolittle		 Talby, do you read me?
doolittle		 TALBY!
talby		 Oh!  Ah, yes, Doolittle.  What is it?
doolittle		I need a diameter approximation.
talby		 Okay, Doolittle, I'll have it in a minute.
pinback		I need a GHF reading on the gravity correction.
doolittle		I'll check it.
boiler		I have a reduced drive reading of seven thousand.
pinback		Right, that checks out here.
doolittle		Pinback...
pinback		Yes, Doolittle.
doolittle		Your GHF reading is minus fifteen.
pinback		Doolittle...
doolittle		Yes.
pinback		I need a computer reading on a fail- safe mark.
doolittle		In a second.
pinback		Boiler, can you set me up with some temp figures?
boiler		Ninety seven million, minus eight, corrected to mass critical.
pinback		I read that with a quantum increase of seven.
doolittle		Pinback, I have a computer reading of nine five seven seven.
boiler		Time to start talking.
pinback		Bomb bay systems operational.
narrator		 This is a chain-reaction bomb, otherwise known as an Exponential Thermostellar Device.  Its own destructive power is small, barely enough to vaporize twelve city blocks.  However, when it explodes in contact with an object the size of a planet, it starts a chain-reaction in the very matter of that planet, turning it into a giant reactor which destroys itself in one staggering thermal flash.
doolittle		Lock fail safe.
pinback		Fail-safe locked.  Ah, Sergeant Pinback call1ng Bomb #19.  Do you read me, bomb?
pinback		Well, bomb, we have about sixty seconds to drop.  Just wondering if everything is all right.  Have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
pinback		Swell.  Let's synchronize detonation time.  Do you know when you're supposed to go off?
pinback		All right, I have detonation time at... Wait a minute, something's wrong with the clock.  Okay, I have six minutes exactly. Does that check out down there?
pinback		Arm yourself, bomb.
pinback		Well, then, everything sounds fine. We'll drop you off in thirty-five seconds.  Good luck.
pinback		Begin main sequence.  Mark at 10-9-8- 7-6-5-4-3-2-1-drop.
doolittle		Hyperdrive sequence begun.  Hit it, Pinback.
talby		Lieutenant Doolittle, it just exploded.  Lieutenant?
doolittle		Unlock fail safe.
pinback		Fail safe unlocked.
recorded voice		Attention.  Attention.  The hyperdrive sequence is now terminated.  Please observe that the no smoking signs have growrrr...
doolittle		Well... now what?  What do, you have for us now.  Boiler?
boiler		 Not much.  Nothing at all in this sector.
doolittle		Find me something, I don't care where it is.
boiler		Well, I show a 95% probability of sentient life in the Horsehead Nebula...
doolittle		Fuck that shit.
boiler		Well, it is kind of a long shot...
doolittle		It's a goddamn wild goose chase. Remember when Commander Powell found that 99 plus probability of sentient life in the Magellanic Cloud?
boiler		Well, there's the possibility of...
doolittle		Remember what we found?  Fourteen light years for a fucking mindless vegetable that looked like a limp balloon and went squawk and let a fart when you touched it.  Remember?
boiler		All right, then...
doolittle		So don't give me any of that sentient life crap.  Find me something I can blow up.
pinback		New star.  Hey, guess what?  I got a new star on the readout.
doolittle		 Which one?
pinback		Another unknown.  Not on the charts. A red dwarf.
doolittle		Any planets?
pinback		Yeah.  Eight, it says here.
doolittle		Any of 'em any good?
pinback		 Naah.  All stable.
pinback		 What are you gonna name it?
doolittle		 What?
pinback		The new star.  What are you gonna name it?
doolittle		Who cares.  Don't bother me.
pinback		Commander Powell would have named it.
doolittle		Commander Powell is dead.
pinback		Come on, Doolittle, give it a name.
doolittle		Fred.
pinback		Wha?
doolittle		I hereby name this star Fred.
boiler		Hey, Doolittle, here's one.  An unstable planet.  85% probability of an unstable planet in the Veil Nebula that will probably go off its orbit and hit a star.
doolittle		Sounds good.  Chart a course for the Veil Nebula.
boiler		Pinback, throw me the chart log.
doolittle		Let's have some music in here, Boiler.
doolittle		Ship's log, entry number 1,943. Dark Star cruising at light speed through Sector Theta 990.  En route to Veil Nebula for destruction of unstable planet.  Our ETA is 1700 hours.  Ship's systems continue to deteriorate...
doolittle		 Storage Area 9 self-destructed last week, destroying entire ship's supply of toilet paper.  That's all.
doolittle		Talby.
doolittle		 Here's some breakfast.
doolittle		 You know, Talby, you really ought to eat with the rest of us.  You spend too much time up here.
talby		I like it up here.
doolittle		Must get lonely being up here so much.
talby		I don't like to go below since Commander Powell died.  I feel enclosed down there.  If it were big enough, I'd sleep up here...
doolittle		... Should spend some time below, see more of the rest of the ship...
talby		... You see, I can watch things up here, Doolittle.  I love to watch things, just stare at the planets and meteors and asteroids, gas clusters...
doolittle		You'll have plenty of time for that, you know.  Figure it this way: twenty years in space and we've only aged three, so there'll be plenty of time to stare around...
talby		You know, Doollttle, if we're going into the Veil Nebula, we may actually find a strange and beautiful thing: the Phoenix Asteroids.  They should be passing through there about now...
doolittle		Phoenix Asteroids?  Never heard of 'em.
talby		They are a body of asteroids that make a complete circuit of the universe once every 12.3 trillion years.  The Phoenix Asteroids... From what I've heard, Doolittle, they glow... glow with all the colors of the rainbow.  Nobody knows why.  They just glow as they drift around the universe.  Imagine all the sights they've seen in the time they've been travelling -- the birth and death of stars, things we'll never see.  The universe is alive, Doolittle.  I thought it was all empty, but it isn't.  In between the stars, it's seething with light and gasses and dust.  There are little pebbles drifting around, planets no one on Earth has ever seen... No one but the Phoenix Asteroids...
doolittle		You know what I think about, Talby?
talby		I'm getting something here, on this readout...
doolittle		It's funny, but I kind of sit around, you know, a lot of time to myself...
talby		I think I'm getting a malfunction here somewhere.
doolittle		I can't talk to the others, but with time to myself, I think about back home, back home at Malibu.  I used to surf a lot, Talby.  I used to be a great surfer.
talby		Lieutenant Doolittle, I'm getting a definite malfunction on one of the closed-circuit computer systems...
doolittle		The waves at Malibu and Zuma were fantastic in the springs Talby.  I can remember running out on the beach early spring mornings with my board and a wet suit...
talby		I can't seem to locate the malfunction exactly...
doolittle		Waves would be peaking really high and glassy.  Hit that water.  Ridin' the wall just perfect.
talby		... Somewhere in the autonomic relay circuits...
doolittle		I guess I miss the waves and my board most of all.
talby		Ah, Doolittle, I do have a malfunction on this readout, but I can't seem to pinpoint exactly where it is.
doolittle		 Don't worry about it.  We'll find out when it goes bad.
talby		 I really think I should try and locate it immediately.  Might be something important.
doolittle		I wish I had my board with me now. Even if I could only polish it once in awhile.
boiler		I'm getting this flickering light on one of my panels.
pinback		What flickering light?
boiler		The one on unit... oh, I think it's GMR twelve zero zero.
pinback		Oh.  What's wrong now?
boiler		I'm not sure.  I think something is fucked up somewhere in the ship, though.
pinback		I hope it's not the oven again.
boiler		Yeah.
pinback		Remember when the artificial gravity, went out in the toilet?
pinback		Hey, Doolittle, think we'll ever find real intelligent life out there?
doolittle		Out where?
pinback		Veil nebula.
doolittle		Who cares?
mission controller		Hi, guys.  Glad to get your message. We gather from the ten-year communications lag that you are approximately 18 parsecs away.  Drop us a line more often, won't you?
talby		Lieutenant Doolittle, this is Talby. Lieutenant?
doolittle		 Yes, Talby, what is it?
talby		Sorry to interrupt your lunch, sir, but I'm in the Computer Room, and I think I've located the malfunction. The scanner shows it to be some sort of fault in the communications laser, down by the Emergency Air Lock.  Can't pinpoint it exactly, but I'm going down there with a starsuit and try to find it.
doolittle		Sounds good, Talby.  Let me know if anything important comes up.
boiler		Why doesn't Talby ever eat down here with the rest of us?
doolittle		He just likes it up in the dome, that's all.
boiler		What's Talby's first name?
doolittle		What's my first name?
mission controller		-- then repatch channel 12 and seal all the plates.  Don't mess with it and it should work okay.  I'm just glad we caught this thing before anything serious happened.  Keep up the good work, men.
boiler		There she is.  Definite 99%-plus probability that the planet is going to deviate from its normal orbit in another twelve thousand rotations. It'll spiral in toward its sun, and --
pinback		Eventual supernova.
doolittle		Good stuff.  Let's vaporize it.
pinback		Bomb bay systems operational.
doolittle		Lock fail safe.
pinback		Fail safe in lock.  Four minutes to drop, 22 minutes to detonation.  This is Sergeant Pinback calling Bomb
recorded voice		You are now in the Emergency Air Lock.  Please remember that the Surface Door can be opened without prior depressurization, so be sure to wear your starsuit at all times. Thank you for observing all safety precautions.
talby		Ah, Lieutenant Doolittle?  Sir?
doolittle		Sh, Talby, don't bother me now.
talby		Ah, well, I think I've found the malfunction, sir.  I'm in the Emergency Air Lock...
doolittle		Not now!
talby		 Well, I'm in the Emergency Air Lock and --
pinback		One hundred twenty seconds to drop, bomb, have you checked your platinum euridium energy shielding?
pinback		Do you remember the detonation time?
pinback		Right, that synchronizes here.  Okay, bomb, arm yourself.
talby		Hello?  Lieutenant Doolittle?  Hello!
recorded voice		Communications Laser #17, monitoring information relays and bomb bay systems, has now been activated and will switch into a test mode.  If you will look near the Surface Door, you will see that the Parallax Receptor Cell has been engaged.
recorded voice		The laser will now energize.  Please stand clear of the path of the beam.
recorded voice		Communications Laser #17 is now on test.  Under no circumstances enter the path of the beam.  Thank you for observing all safety precautions.
pinback		Everything sounds fine, bomb. Dropping you off in sixty seconds. Good luck.
boiler		Quantum is up thirty-five.
doolittle		I read the same here.
talby		Doolittle.  Doolittle?  It you're there, I'm going to try to adjust the cue switch on the laser.
talby		 Well... here goes...
talby		My eyes.
recorded voice		Attention.  Attention.  The laser has malfunctioned.  Under no circumstances enter the path of the beam.  To do so will cause immediate --
pinback		Begin main sequence.  Mark at 10-9-8- 7-6-5-4-3-2-1-drop.
doolittle		I have a negative drop.  The bomb is still in the bomb bay.  Try it again, Pinback.
pinback		Mark at 5-4-3-2-1-drop.
doolittle		Ah, negative drop.
doolittle		Rechannel all safety relays --
boiler		-- open quantum latches --
pinback		-- open circuit breakers --
doolittle		-- remove thrust drive repellant --
pinback		-- automatic channels open --
doolittle		-- Remark.
pinback		5-4-3-2-1-drop, drop, drop!
boiler		Sittin' there.  It's just sittin' there.
doolittle		This is Lieutenant Doolittle calling Bomb #20.  I repeat previous order, you are to disarm yourself and return immediately to the bomb bay. Do you understand?
doolittle		Bomb, this is Doolittle.  You are not to detonate, repeat, you are not to detonate in the bomb bay.  Disarm yourself.  This is an order.
pinback		Fourteen minutes to detonation.
recorded voice		Attention.  Attention.  The bomb has malfunctioned.  Automatic dampers have gone into effect, and will confine the explosion to an area one mile in diameter.  Please contact mission control and await further instructions.  Thank you for observing all safety precautions.
doolittle		Only one thing to do.  I'll have to ask Commander Powell.  I'll have to ask him what to do.
doolittle		Commander Powell?  Commander Powell, this is Doolittle.  Can you read me?
powell		... muffirup glurrinpinfropal...
doolittle		Commander Powell, this is Doolittle. Ah, there's something serious come up, sir, and I have to ask you something.
powell		 I'm glad you've come to talk with me, Doolittle.  It's been so long since anyone has come to talk with me.
doolittle		Commander, sir, we have a big problem.  You see, the Veil Nebula bomb, Bomb Number 20, is stuck.  It won't drop from the bomb bay.  It refuses to listen and plans to detonate in --  -- less than eleven minutes.
powell		Doolittle, you must tell me one thing.
doolittle		What's that, sir?
powell		Tell me, Doolittle, how are the Dodgers doing?
doolittle		Well, sir, the Dodgers broke up, disbanded over thirteen years ago.
powell		Ah... pity, pity...
doolittle		You don't understand, sir, we can't get the bomb to drop.
powell		Ah, so many malfunctions... why don't you have anything nice to tell me when you activate me?  Oh, well, did you try the azimuth clutch?
doolittle		Yes sir.  Negative effect.
powell		What was that, Doolittle?
doolittle		Negative effect.
powell		It didn't work?
doolittle		That's correct, sir.
powell		Sorry, Doolittle.  I've forgotten so much since I've been in here.  So much.
doolittle		What should we do, sir?  The time is running out.
powell		Well, what you might try is --
doolittle		Commander Powell?  Commander, hello!
powell		Doolittle, hello?
doolittle		Sorry, sir, you faded out there for a minute.
powell		Sorry.
doolittle		What were you saying, Commander, about the bomb?
powell		Ah... it seems to me, Doolittle... Sorry, I've drawn a blank.  Hold it. I'll have it again in a minute.  I forget so many things in here, so many things.  Hold on, just a minute, let me think...
pinback		But you can't explode in the bomb bay.  It's foolish.  You'll kill us all.  There's no reason for it.
pinback		You won't consider another course of action, for instance just waiting around awhile so we can disarm you?
boiler		I can tell, the damn thing just doesn't understand.
pinback		Look, bomb...
doolittle		Commander?  Are you still there?
powell		Oh, yes, Doolittle, I'm thinking.
doolittle		We're running out of time, sir.
powell		Oh, yes... Well, Doolittle, if you can't get it to drop you'll have to talk to it.
doolittle		Sir?
powell		Talk to the bomb.
doolittle		I already have, sir, and Pinback is talking to it now.
powell		No, no, Doolittle, you talk to it. Teach it Phenomenology, Doolittle.
doolittle		Sir?
powell		Phenomenology...
pinback		Doolittle!  Doolittle!  Six minutes to detonation!
pinback		Doolittle!  Doolittle, what the hell are you doing?
doolittle		Hello, bomb, are you with me?
doolittle		Are you willing to entertain a few concepts?
doolittle		Fine.  Think about this one, then: how do you know you exist?
boiler		What's he doin'?
pinback		I think he's talking to it.
doolittle		But how do you know you exist?
doolittle		Intuition is no proof.  What concrete evidence do you have of your own existence?
doolittle		That's good.  Very good.  Now then, how do you know that anything else exists?
doolittle		Right!
doolittle		All right now, here's the big question: how do you know that the evidence your sensory apparatus reveals to you is correct?
doolittle		What I'm getting at is this: the only experience that is directly available to you is your sensory data.  And this data is merely a stream of  electrical impulses which stimulate your computing center.
doolittle		Exactly.
doolittle		That's it.
doolittle		Why don't you have more time?
boiler		The key!
pinback		Key?  Key?  What is the key?
boiler		No, no, the key, the key to the fail-safe lock!
pinback		Key?
boiler		Where's the fail-safe key?
pinback		The key!
boiler		Where is it?  What did you do with it?
pinback		I don't have it.  I don't know where it is.
boiler		You must have it, you idiot, we can stop the bomb!
doolittle		Now, bomb, consider this next question, very carefully.  What is your one purpose in life?
doolittle		And you can only do it once, right?
doolittle		And you wouldn't want to explode on the basis of false data, would you?
doolittle		Well then, you've already admitted that you have no real proof of the existence of the outside universe.
doolittle		So you have no absolute proof that Sergeant Pinback ordered you to detonate.
doolittle		Yes, of course you remember it, but what you are remembering is merely a series of electrical impulses which you now realize have no necessary connection with outside reality.
boiler		The key, goddamit, the key!
pinback		Christ, twenty seconds, Christ!
boiler		Where is the key?
pinback		We're gonna die, Boiler.  We're gonna die.
doolittle		That's all beside the point.  The concepts are valid, wherever they originate.
doolittle		So if you detonate in...
doolittle		... you may be doing so on the basis of false data.
doolittle		You have no proof that it was correct data.
boiler		It didn't go off.
pinback		Oh, God...
boiler		It didn't go off.
pinback		Boiler, we're alive.  My heart.
talby		Doolittle?  Doolittle?  What happened? Pinback?  Boiler?  Did we blow it up? Hello?  Hello?
boiler		No bombs today.  No bombs.  Big Boiler's back in business.  No bombs today.
talby		Hello, anybody!  Did we blow up the planet?  Hello, hello!  What's going on?
boiler		We've got to disarm the bomb.
pinback		Doolittle, are you there?
doolittle		I'm coming in now.  I'm down by the Emergency Air Lock.  Too much trouble to come in the Ventral Lock.  Would you blow the seal on the emergency hatch so I can come in?
pinback		Oh, sure.
doolittle		Hello, Pinback, are you there?
pinback		Yeah, Doolittle.  What's up?
doolittle		Talby was in the air lock.  You blew him out of the ship.  I'm going after him.  Turn on his helmet radio so I can contact him.
boiler		What was that, I didn't hear...
pinback		It's Talby.  He's drifting away from the ship without his jetpack.
doolittle		Talby, Talby, can you read me?
boiler		Can you beat that?  I always knew Talby was weird.
doolittle		Talby, can you read me?
talby		Help, Doolittle, help me!
pinback		All right, bomb, prepare to receive new orders.
pinback		Huh?
pinback		Hello, bomb.
pinback		 Hey, bomb.
pinback		 Bomb?
talby		Doolittle!  Help me.
doolittle		Calm down, Talby.  I'm coming.
pinback		Snap out of it, bomb.
boiler		What the hell?
pinback		Yoo hoo, bomb...
boiler		Bomb, hey bomb.
pinback		Hey, bomb...
doolittle		Whoa!
talby		Doolittle, Doolittle, where are you?
doolittle		Here I am.  I think I'm spinning... We're both falling, Talby, in opposite directions, away from each other.  My -- my jetpack's gone.
talby		What happened, Doolittle?
doolittle		Bomb must have gone off inside the ship.  Nothing we can do about it now.  Hey, it looks like... the skipper.  He made it.  Commander Powell made it!
powell		 Men... men... what happened, men?
doolittle		Yeah, the skipper always was lucky.
doolittle		 Looks like I'm headed for the planet, Talby.  Going right toward it.
talby		When you fall, Doolittle, if there's anyone down there on the planet, somebody may see you.  They may see you coming down.  What a beautiful way to die... as a falling star...
doolittle		Guess you're right.
talby		Doolittle, I'm heading right toward something.  It's behind me, in the distance.  Something that glows.
doolittle		Oh yeah?
talby		Doolittle... I think it's the Phoenix Asteroids!
doolittle		Phoenix?
talby		It is, Doolittle, it's the Phoenix! They glow with all the colors of the rainbow, just like everybody said.
doolittle		No kidding?
talby		I'm going into them, I'm going to hit them.  Doolittle...
doolittle		Yeah?
talby		Before we get too far away, and our signals start to fade, I just wanted to tell you... you were my favorite. I really liked you, Doolittle.
doolittle		I really liked you too, Talby.  Hey, some debris from the ship!  It's coming right by me.
talby		Doolittle, I'm catching up to the asteroids.  I'm going to be a part of them in a minute.  Doolittle, I'm going into them.
talby		 I'm beginning to glow.
talby		 They're taking me with them, with the Phoenix... going to circle the universe forever.  I'm with them now... be back this way again some day.  Doolittle, before it's too late, there's one last thing I want to tell you...
doolittle		Hey, Talby!  I've grabbed a piece of the ship, and I think I've figured out a way!
****Dialogues from script :Darkman.txt****

black		Yeah. .'Cause he's an asshole. Tell him no... Tell him no too... Him, tell fuck you... Yeah... Uh huh... The continuing pull back shows that we are inside a huge empty pier building. Black is leaning against the roof of his car, which is parked in the middle of the vast empty space. The room is lit by bare bulbs, its farthest reaches falling into darkness.
black		No, I'll be a few minutes here. Guy comin' up, thinks he's gonna muscle me outs my property... Does it matter? Just another tough guy...Yeah, okay... Another hard-looking man is approaching.
man		They're drivin' up. Black nods.
black		Get their pieces. We got a surprise for those fuckers.
dock worker		Okay, against the car, ladies. You're c gonna stand for a search. 12 The eight visitors assume the position, placing their 12 hands on the roof of their car. The dock workers pat them down and haul off iron -- lots of it.
black		Bum leg?
skip		No leg.
black		I hadda break it off.
black		okay, let's cut the crap here. Durant, I got just three things to say to you. One He holds up a chubby finger.
black		I ain't selling my property. He flashes a second finger.
black		Two. Nobody muscles Eddie Black Especially a bunch of fucks. He flashes a third finger.
ppy		Number three, if you guys is unha with that, which I can already is, then we can cutcha balls of f if that'll be more satisfactory.
durant		Now let's consider my points, one by one...
guzman		puts a full nelson on Black. Trumayne, grabs Black's right hand and holds it out, fingers splayed, towards Durant.
durant		One... He slips one of Black's fingers into his cigar trimmer.
durant		.1 try not to let my anger get the better of me. SNIP! Black screams. As Durant goes for another finger:
durant		...Two: I don't always succeed. SNIP! Black screams. Reaching for another finger:
durant		...Three: I've got seven more points.
eye		Blinking.
nose		The nostrils flare slightly.
eye		Looking.
nose		Still. Suddenly it is hit by a flash of light as -- B- DEEEE -- we hear the automatic wind of a camera and its strobe recharging. B-DEEEEE! B-DEEEE! We get rapid-fire left and right nose profiles.
peyton		Now, if everything goes according to plan, in a couple of months your nose will be on the lips of every American... He is feeding the prints into the input slot of a computer.
peyton		We've finally got the Imager working how we want it. 24 We pan to the Holographic Imaging Cylinder. The glass 24 cylinder, wired to the computer, glows to life. 24P A three dimensional holographic image of Yakatito's nose 24P rotates within. 25 Peyton glances from the Imager to the computer. He types 25 on the computer keyboard.
peyton		Bio-press checks out okay... He glances to...
peyton		I don't know about perfect, but it looks like your nose. Down to the millimole... No, the bio-press won't be a problem. It's the synthetic
would		skin's instability. If the
a skinu		just hold up -- Y give me victim and a photograph of his old face -- he'll get more than a nose. We're talking complete reconstruction
maybe even		damaged skin tissue. make him better looking. Hey, what's the time?
yakitito		fumbles for the stopwatch that hangs around his neck.
yakitito		Ninety-eight minute and change.
peyton		Let's check in our friends.
peyton		moves to a microscope.
epidermis		On the right half of the screen, another image forms. It is a second molecule. Beneath it, the words:
structural match		The molecules rotate in synchronization. A loud beeping tone. Suddenly, the synthetic molecule begins to waver and spin randomly.
peyton		Fragmentation. Time? Yakitito checks his stopwatch.
yakitito		Ninety-nine minute. Again.
yakitito		..Ninety-nine minute. Cells always break up at a ninety-nine minute. He punches away at a keyboard and takes the readout.
peyton		Electrolytes, temp and glucose concentration. all normal.
yakitito		But still this ninety nine minute. Yakitito makes a notation of the time on a lab sheet.
peyton		Pacing, thinking;
peyton		Why? What is destabilizing it? Vivification process was cake. Tissue rejection? We licked that. We're close. We're smart guys. So why can't we make these cells stable? Hokay. Let's try a ten percent alkalinity. Get those suckers too drunk to fragment.
yakitito		posts the completed lab sheet on a wall covered with hundreds of similar sheets.
yakitito		We already try ten. He pokes at a section of lab sheets.
yakitito		And twenty. And twenty-two... We try all phase of alkalinity. He punches the wall. CONTINUED
yakitito		But still a ninety-nine minute! Three month ago, ninety nine minute. Ten month ago... ninety nine minute... BAM BAM... Yakitito punches the wall again and again. Peyton calmly taps a plastic dunking bird that slowly bobs.
peyton		A word of advice, Yakitito. Don't get emotionally involved. Watch. Analyze. Remain object ---
yakitito		Maybe I am lousy scientist.
maybeoi		listen to father, get in Anaheim! Get drunk on Sake nightly, forget I am failure!
peyton		Quick, Yakitito. A basketball appears in Peyton's hands. He tosses it to
yakitito		Catches the ball.
peyton		The most striking characteristic of thermionic emission.
yakitito		Throws the ball away.
ke		No, always you ask me question to ma me calm down! I no want to calm down!
peyton		catches the ball, dribbles and throws it back to Yakitito.
peyton		The answer, Yakitito.
yaxitito		snags the ball angrily from the air.
peyton		Go on! Again he pump-fakes. Yakitito flinches.
yakitito		This means the temperature of the emitter is not critical as long as it is sufficiently high and as long as pure metals with high operating temperatures such as tungsten or tantalum are used. Peyton tosses him the ball. Yakitito catches it. Calm now. He blinks.
yakitito		Amazing. It work every time.
julie		Mr. Strack, my name is Julie Hastings. I'm here from Pappas and Swain to represent you in the Von Hoffenstein negotiation.
julie		Gorson's tied up in litigation this week. Don't worry--I've done my homework.
katz		We want to be reasonable here. We said we were interested in selling the pier frontage and we are interested in selling. But frankly Mr. Von .will not be robbed. Seventy-five strikes us as a fair price for this parcel. We're ready to conclude a deal here and now at that price.
julie		Then I guess we're only missing one element here.
katz		What's that?
julie		An interested party. Strack Jr. tries to suppress a smile. Waiters bring in the wine and pour a tasting portion for Von Hoffenstein, silent, coldly watchful. He rolls the wine in his glass, eyes appraising Julie. He takes a sip, cocks his head, nods. Wine is poured around.
julie		.Mr. Katz, I've found that in the real estate business, three factors determine a property's worth. CONTINUED
julie		...Location. Location. And... location. Frankly, you have none of the above. Your fair price is fair for midtown commercial, not for riverfront.
katz		It's worth more to your client, given his plans for the area.
julie		if my client can spin straw into gold, he'll still pay market price for straw. As a matter of fact--
von hoffensteen		--Business is business. Deals vill come and go, but ze velt vill pause for a beautiful voman...and a fine wine.
julie		Our offer stands at forty-eight.
von hoffenstien		Smiles a worldly smile.
von hoffinstien		Let us toast a zale at ze price of zixty millions. Strack Sr. smiles. He starts to raise his glass, preparing to toast.
julie		To Von Hoffenstein: CONTINUED
julie		You're moving in the right direction, but our offer stands firm. i believe if anyone had
be		offered you more than us, you'd sharing this wine with them. She sips the wine and then, frowning, turns to the wine steward.
julie		.There's been a mistake. We ordered a bottle of '67 Beaujolais Maison Reme. Is that not correct?
steward		Oui madame. '67 Beaujolais Maison Reme. Is what I have serve. Julie pleasantly but firmly corrects him.
julie		No. You have served us a 1981 or
steward		Please, Madame! I serve the Reme!
katz		Ms. Hastings, please. The wine is fine. You're way out of your league here. I'm sure the wine steward--
from		plucks the CALIFORNIA
steward		Please forgive us. We bring the bel Reme.at once. Gratis. Julie addresses the baron.
julie		At any rate, our offer stands at forty-eight... As she rises:
julie		.And if we can't toast, we prefer not to drink. These gentlemen and I have other business to attend to, so if you'll excuse us... Strack Sr. rises, angrily. He turns to leave with her, murmuring under his breath:
von hoffenstein		Permit me, madame! Too fine a vine not to use for a toast!
peyton		.Time, Yakitito.
yakitito		Ninety eight minute. A light goes out, leaving the lab in darkness except for the glow from the computer screen.
yakitito		.Is a bulb. I get a fresh.
yakitito		So, did you ask her?
peyton		Tonight. Out of habit, Peyton glances back to the microscope.
yakitito		This is unbelievable! You been saying tonight for weeks and still you don't ask her! Maybe I ask to marry you.
peyton		Your father would never approve of me. Yakitito stares at him in puzzlement. Then:
yakitito		216, no, I ask he if gbg marry you. I Peyton looks through the microscope;
peyton		Time, Yakitito!
yakitito		Huh?! One hundred minute! Peyton grips at the table with excitement.
peyton		The cells are holding, Yakitito.
yakitito		Dr. Westlake punch the wall! Dr. Westlake punch the wall!
yakitito		You Punch You answer the quesiton. flinches, to c ch t winds back to toss u B e i ball pump -faked to cat ch t he ball. t ever comes-- Yakitito
driver		We have a flat, sir. I'm sorry.
the tire		is'NOT flat.
the driver		discretely removes a straight-razor from his coat pocket and approaches the tire.
the tire		is now deflated.
the man		Closer now. A one-quarter-view of the man's downturned face. he looks up--revealing DURANT! A terrible malevolent grin as he lifts his newspaper. We make out the muzzle of a silencer. CAMERA SWISHES TO.
high angle		The two men pass.
darkness		Julie ascending a flight of shadowy stairs. The steps creak as she climbs them. We hear the eerie drip, drip, dripping of a water pipe.
julie		is uneasy. She halts halfway up the stairs to listen. We hear only the scurry of cautiously.
julie		Peyton?
click		a photic-sensor picks up the disturbance.
speakers		extrude slowly from slots over the windows.
a voice		fills the room. It is a hollow Voice that echos about the lab.
voice		Please be seated. A spotlight SNAPS on, illuminating a chair behind her. Numbly, she sits in it.
a screen		tak l in of her. Tvoice tak cati nal essono heomonotonousltone ofoatnarrator ofhedu films.
voice		ve. ow does it work? A Westlake Yanigita presentation. A smile spreads across Julie's face.
voice		Love. Science is perplexed over this great mystery. Shot of Peyton and Yakitito in white lab coats, identical looks of perplexity on their, faces. Julie laughs.
voice		What are the causes of love? How do we detect its presence? What are its effects? These are some of the questions we will investigate in this lesson. Again the sunset and distorted music.
voice		Part one. je origins 21 ve. The sunset is replaced by split-screen photos of Peyton and Julie, age twelve. Peyton peers into a test-tube through glasses too big for his face. Julie assumes a mock-debonair pose for the camera.
voice		These lovers first met on a seventh grade field trip to the planetarium... Shot of the night sky, rich with stars and galaxies.
voice		While the narrator discussed the origins of the universe, Peyton held Julie's hand. Shot of a somewhat nerdy Peyton with his arm stiffly around Julie.
julie		You were so slick.
voice		Our test-subjects were soon--to use the jargon of teenagers--"going out. " This "going out" period can be as short as a single date, or as long as a lifetime. Montage of Peyton and Julie throughout the years.
voice		In the case of these two--a rare phenomenon--it lasted twenty years.
julie		Although we broke up sixteen times. Sunset and distorted music.
tua		Part two. Mating rumpled bed, The sunset is replaced by a shot of Julie on a working on legal briefs, a camera-faced shadow crossing the image.
voice		Certain objects develop a special, shared meaning to lovers. Here are some objects significant to our test subjects. Shot of coffee-rings on a table.
voice		The coffee rings Peyton tends to leave. They irritate Julie, and he leaves them everywhere! Quick shots. Coffee rings on a lab report. Coffee rings on a book-shelf. Coffee rings on a wall and ceiling. Julie laughs.
voice		Yet such minor irritations can strangely become endearing to the other mate.
julie		Not just yet they haven't. The slide changes to a shot of a bottle covered in wax.
voice		The bottle of Dom Perignon Champagne Julie gave Peyton for his twenty-first birthday. Now it serves as a candle holder.
julie		I never gave you that. The champagne bottle is replaced by a shot of a record album turning on a player. The music plays over the image. Haunting. Romantic.
voice		Finally, the single Love in the ark The song continues. Julie smiles, swept away by it.
voice		This song was playing when the two first kissed. A high school prom picture comes up on the screen. Peyton in an awkwardly fitting tux and Julie, a blossoming beauty. In the slide, they have been caught kissing.
voice		Now let us leave our test-subjects. The sunset again. ov in the Dark theme plays over it,. and eventually fades away.
voice		Love. It's fundamental nature still eludes modern Science. Yet researchers across the globe continue to study this ancient and powerful phenomenon. Hoping one day, to unlock love's mystery. Credits come on. A Westlake/Yanagita Presentation. Etc. Peyton The lights in the lab come on. Julie turns around. steps out from behind the slide projector.
peyton		Pretty stupid, huh?
julie		I thought it was beautiful-
peyton		Yakitito helped. I just wanted you to see it. It was just something I wanted you to. . know.
julie		I know. Peyton wraps his arms about her. Julie moves close and they kiss.
julie		.Dale Gorson, please... Peyton's hand enters with a mug of coffee, which he sets on the papers in front of her.
julie		Peyton! Julie takes the mug away; it has indeed left a brown circle on the topmost memo. Julie smiles at him. Then:
julie		Dale? Yes, Julie Hastings... yes, I found some memos researching the Von Hoffenstein deal that I don't think I was supposed to find... From the late Mr. Strack to a guy named Claude Bellasarious. They're records of payments to various people on the zoning commission... Peyton, behind her, massages her back.
julie		.They look like payoffs. Suspicious, at the very least... Well, the way I'd like to proceed is to talk to Strack's son first... Give him the benefit of the doubt. Under the circumstances, it's the least I can do. She hangs up. Peyton kisses her. She leans back into his arms and closes her eyes blissfully. Reluctantly, she rises and slips on her shoes. Peyton watches her admiring everything about her. She gracefully lays her legal papers in her briefcase and heads for the door. Half way out the door she turns to Peyton.
peyton		The sound of the closing door echos. He sits alone on the ksd, looking about the empty apartment and lab beyond.
julie		In an impressive corporate power suit, briefcase in hand, walks briskl y down the sunny sidewalk, stopping at the intersection to sig nal a cab Suddenly, running up behind her..
peyton		Julie, wait! She is opening the cab door when she turns to him.
julie		What's the matter?
peyton		I've been thinking. Maybe we should get married.
julie		Marriage--well, we could do that--of course, there's our careers--I men, I'm just starting to get things going at the firm. And, you know, I kind of like having my own
peyton		'We're practically living together now. All marriage means is you answer the phone in the and if you to pretend grandmother, it's a wrong number. The poor woman's beginning to think she has alzheimer's.
peyton		Julie, I'm asking you to marry me.
cabbie		He got a ring?
peyton		Ring? Oh, no, I don't have a ring.
peyton		I mean, I just now finally
julie		I love you, Peyton... She climbs into the cab, closes the door.
peyton		-Realized how much--
julie		(through the open
julie		Watches Peyton grow smaller as the cab moves off. Julie looks longingly back at Peyton. Did she make the right choice? She back once more for Peyton but he is only a tiny dot in the distance.
strack's voice		Yes, go ahead, put a buy on the Kugerands... Thank you for your sympathy, Franz. He was a great man. And as long as Strack Industries flourishes my father lives on. The pull back shows Strack behind his power desk, talking nd Strack into the phone. waves the person on into his lush corporatecoffice
strack		.Very good. Thank you. He hangs up.
strack		.Miss Hastings. Have a seat.
julie		Thank you for seeing me, Mr. Strack... I'm --sorry about your father. I heard last night.
strack		My father was a great man, and his
can get		loss is felt by you something? allfof?us.
julie		No thank you. Mr. Strack, I've been going over some documents and I came across something that puzzled me. It's a memo from your office to a Mr. Claude Bellasarious--it went out over your father's signature. It detailed
strack		Yes yes, I know the memo. Julie continues, hesitantly:
julie		...It seems like the payments... were-
strack		They were pay-offs. To the zoning commission. Bribes, to call a spade a spade. He gives her an appraising look.
strack		.Does that shock you?
strack		But it disappoints you.
julie		Well it's hardly my place to--
strack		That's right, it's not your place. Yet I value your good opinion.
julie		Surely you don't expect me to endorse it.
strack		Course not. I'm sure my father never intended for you to know about it. I'm sorry if He's compromised you in any way. But I am asking you to understand. I'm not going to bore you with that old speech about how we all have to swim in the same pond. But you know as well as I that
strack		Take a look at that model, Julie. That was my father's dream. Now it's my dream. Acres of riverfront reclaimed from decay, thousands of jobs created, a building block--a very large building block--laid for the future. Not such a bad dream, as dreams go. And if the price of realizing that dream is the occasional distasteful chore, well...
julie		All right, you're point is well taken. But the fact remains that I'm in possession of evidence of the commission of a crime. You can no more ask me to destroy it than I could ask you to destroy one of your buildings.
strack		Let me suggest this. You excuse yourself for a few minutes, go to the ladies' room, leaving your briefcase here. What happens to the memorandum while it's in my custody is my responsibility.
julie		I wish it were that simple. First of all, I don't have the memo with me. Even if I did--
strack		It isn't safe to have that document.
julie		Are you threatening me?
strack		moves closer, touching her arm.
strack		I'm trying to protect you. Does.  his lips, wondering if he can tru Does the name Robert Durant mean anything to you?
julie		He's an underworld figure-- racketeering, drugs.
and		Well, you're very eloquent, frankly I'm not certain what I should do. You'll have to trust me for a day or so to figure this out.
strack		Is that the most I can extract from you?
julie		For now.
strack		I believe it is. Well then, my dear, I'm in your hands.
peyton		Time?
yaikitito		Ninety-six minute. A pause.
yakitito		So, did you ask her?
yakitito		This is unbelievable! Every day--
peyton		Time, Yakitito.
yakitito		It still ninety six minute! Sounds to me that maybe you didn't ask her. Maybe your afraid?
peyton		Look, I asked her. She said no, okay? Well, she actually said "I don't know". Peyton stands and stretches. The telephone rings, Peyton moves to answer it.
peyton		I'll get it.
julie		please be there Peyton.
a hand		Juts out of the shadows and clutches at Peyton's wrist!
voice		Don't bother.
peyton		We hold on his shocked face as the phone rings and then stops.
another light		comes on revealing Trumayne.
another light		Rudy Guzman.
another light		reveals the entire gang; Corky Corcoran and a grinning Smiley stand side by side. Near them, Skip. In the very back is Rick, looking a little green around the gills.
peyton		looks wildly about.
his pov		Panning from Skip to Rudy to Trumayne to--Pauly's fist, being launched directly into the camera.
pauly		pulls him up and slams him into the wall.
peyton		sags down, then hauls himself to his knees to behold:
durant		No foolish heroics, if you please. We have come only for documentstell us where to find the Bellasarious memorandum and we shall disappear-- like a nightmare before the breaking day.
durant		The Bellasaurious memorandum if you please...
peyton		I told you, I don't know what you're talking about! CRACKLE--Yakatito Yanagita is thrust into frame, his mouth stretched wide under the plastic bag that covers his head.
durant		.Should your houseboy's predicament not jog your memory, you may bid him Godspeed.
peyton		Stop it! Let him breathe!
peyton		surges forward but a vicious backhand blow from Pauly sends him back to the floor. He raises his face just as--BAM--an orange flash plays on Peyton's horrified features. THUNK! Yakatito drops into frame in front of him.
rick		With a trembling hand he holsters the gun. He withdraws a bottle of pills from his jacket. He shakes out two and swallows them dry.
trumayne		emerges from the bedroom.
trumayne		Bingo! He waves the coffee-stained document that he has found.
durant		Fine...
peyton		s connects and is electrified. Unable to lot go, he shrieks a s his body
peyton		pulls himself to his knees, cradling the smoking claws that were his hands. Durant lifts him to his feet.
durant		Please, Remain calm. Let's keep this orderly. Resistance now would only prompt acts of pointless cruelty. Durant gestures with a quick movement with his head.
durant		Bring the Asian's fingers. (aloud; to his
peyton		stirs slightly, his breath a twisted WHEEZE. Slowly, he comes to his knees. Head and hands trailing smoke, he crawls toward the bobbing bird and lighter.
limo driver		Didn't see you workin' out there.
gravedigger		Never found the guy's body, just an ear. Don't take long to bury that. Now sometimes when this happens folks'].]. be lookin' for a discount. But see, it ain't the diggin' that your payin' for, It's the real estate. They watch as...
blue		The undifferentiated blue resolves itself, as a ripplin blue fluid, resembling the acid bath in Peyton's lab. A form emerges from it's depths; a completely bandaged head breaks the surface of the fluid.
resident		Here we have a 25-30 year-old-male, no I.D., no medical history. Fished the guy out of the river with burns covering over forty percent of his body. His hands and.face were the most severe.
resident		Ten years ago, pain from the burns would have been intolerable. The guy would have spent the rest of his screaming. Now we use the Rangeveritz technique; quite simply, we sever his spino-thalamic nerve...
resident		.Here. Which, as you know, transmits neural-impulses of pain and vibratory sense to the brain.
resident		No longer receiving impulses of pain, you stick him with a pin...
resident		.and he can't even feel it. With a sharp practiced motion, he plucks out the pin.
resident		Of course, there are serious emotional side effects to this operation. When the body ceases to feel, when so much sensory input is lost, the patient becomes alienated. The mind, cut off from its regular diet of input, has a never-satisfied thirst; alienation gives rise to loneliness, anger; uncontrolled rage is not uncommon. And the rage problem is exacerbated by the chemical effect of severing the nerve. Now, surges of adrenaline flow unchecked through body and brain-- giving him the strength of dozen men. Hence the leather restraints. The resident turns and heads for the door. The interns follow behind like ducklings.
resident		Naturally, we give him every chance of recovery. He waves his hands about in futile circles letting the interns know that this is the party line.
resident		.Remain optimistic... inspire confidence... Talk to him about rehabilitation potential... Personally? I give him a nine on the buzzard scale.
public address		Code Blue, Burn Unit. All doctors report. Code Blue, Burn Unit.
resident		Alright, move. I'm in charge here! Lemme through! He pushes his way to the front of the crowd and blinks stupidly at the camera.
peyton's eyes		growing misty. He staggers across the street after her.
eyes		despair. pull t follow them. He s overcome looks like the last d distance that Peyton to such a great t man on Earth.
peyton		When I'm W Do you still love me, now W can no u just some repulsive thing yo longer recognize? When I sicken YOU. When you run. A GLINT catches his eye. He turns.
the governor		cuts one of the skyscrapers neatly in half with the knife.
loud applause		The Governor passes the piece to LOUIS STRACK JR. who sits at his side.
governor		Louis, I want to take this opportunity to express my gratitude, my extreme gratitude--
strack		 He's talking about my campaign
governor		I'm talking about the Riverside development program. Louis, you've breathed new life into a neighborhood long ago lost to the democrats.
julie		Vodka and lime, please. A double. A business man, flushed with drink, observes her. He moves to the seat beside her.
businessman		Drowning your sorrows, eh?
julie		Just giving them something to swim around in. She drinks the vodka quickly. She sighs.
businessman		Why don' ya tell all your troubles to old Jimbo?
julie		Please remove your hand. The businessman has his hand on her thigh; it crawls upward. CONTINUED
another hand		clamps firmly down on his shoulder and spins him around.
strack		Ferguson, you've had too much to drink.
businessman		Right away, Mr. Strack. Chastened, he beats a hasty retreat. Strack turns to Julie.
julie		Thanks for getting rid of that guy.
strack		Thank you for coming. I'm glad you're here. He takes her by the arm and starts to lead her across the crowded floor.
strack		I haven't wanted to bother you during your period of grief, but I have to know whether you've come to a decision regarding the Belasarius Memorandum.
julie		The decision's been made for both of us. The papers were destroyed in the fire. I want to forget all about that--
julie		What?
strack		Do you remember when I mentioned a certain competitor of mine, Robert G. Durant?
julie		No. No. I've considered it. but the police ruled out arson. It burned hot. A gas fire. There was an acetylene leak -- the tiniest spark
strack		Believe me, I am no stranger to the frustration and anguish that comes from the loss of a loved one. He forces himself to rally his spirits.
strack		My dear, there's no cure for grief
strack		...But there is something that eases the symptoms. It's called... He sweeps her out onto the dance floor.
strack		.Dancing!
julie		finally smiles.
ur		Julie, I was quite impressed with yo performance in the von Hoffenstein negotiations. Outstanding. I believe in instinct. I like yours. I want you to think about something. No need to decide now. But I'd like staff. you as a member of my permanent That's very flattering, my
strack		I've already spoken to Ed Pappas.
strack		Don't be childish, I had every right. He doesn't want to lose you--said he'll fight tooth and nail to keep you at the firm. Good! I like a good scrap! If it's not worth fighting for it's not worth having. Just consider that I won't be outbid. Think about
julie		resents being gripped and lectured to and yet... she senses in Strack, a power and magnetism that holds her.
julie		I'll consider it... Strack smiles. As he sweeps her around, her eye catches something. Her face tightens.
julie		Mr. Strack, I don't want to alarm you, but who is that man, speaking with the Governor?
strack		turns to look.
robert durant		chatting with the governor. He catches Strack's eye.
strack		Holds eye contact for a moment.
strack		That, my dear, is Robert Durant.
durant		smiles.
rick		I gotta take it easy. He pops two into his mouth, and swallows them dry.He enters the apartment building.
ou		We're gonna play a little game. It's tell called show and tell. First, y me everything.
darkman		Uh huh. Then I show you... how to scream. A terrifying pause. Then: Rick SCREAMS as his legs fall out from under him. CAMERA
darkman		 .but let's pretend you didn't. His skeletal claw clamps down over the camera lens-
darinan		I've been bad. He looks to the moody sky. Inky clouds drift past overhead.
darknan		reaches out and delicately touches Julie's hair with a skeletal claw--a twisted reprise of the earlierher sscene. in instinctively hand. Julie shivers and Darkaan quickly y
peyton		my face back. Even I've got to have if it's only for ninety-nine minutes.
julie		suddenly sits up from a dream and cries;
julie		Peyton...'
her pov		The curtains flutter in the wind. She is alone.
a mother		Protectively pulls her child back, away from the cart. We turn off, into.
an alleyway		as it twists, and grows narrow.
blackness		&wylight,
briht		The steel door slides open, dletting eserted iwa rehouse revealing the interior
the darkman		appears silhouetted in the doorway. He pushes the sh e p cart into the warehouse and disappears into s into a shaft of light. CAMERA past th t he darkness. darkness. He steps ra tt y up his old an. to andaged f dangling gauze, He surveys the cavernous interior.
darkman		(in a fire-
darkman		carefully connects one nd ofnanrinsulated cord to the metal base of one of the Y
dart an		All I need is one, clear, picture. He moves to a salvaged photograph album.
peyton		throws the album against the wall. He turns back to the original burned photo.
darxman		This'll have to do.
dar mw		slides the charred photo of himself through the input slot of a computer.
darkman		and studie s the pulls his handaY ois the lack o o ormal rmal
s his		smoldering digits. n
darkman		My hands.. They took my hands. He sits on the lab stool studying his charred palms in the dark. P193
compressed shot		through window of restaurant. The extreme telephoto shows us Pauly eating a chili dog at a booth. He's looking for somebody. SKIP and GUZMAN enter the restaurant and take the seats across from him. Guzman slides a briefcase under the table to Pauly. Pauly downs the butt end of the chili dog and washes it down with a Maalox chaser. He takes the briefcase and exits. CLICK--freezes all three as they exit in black and white.
darkman		disguised as a bagman, in an alley across the street from the restaurant, peering through a camera.
the cat		t a as enters frame, atop a lab table. Camera tracks Si ac ne. On an other e it passes between rows of photographs of Pauly' hands which hang dripping from a clothesli clothes-line are pictures of all the other gang members, taken at different places and times.
anads		ief over hi presses a chlorofrmedOhgnTheh alarm clocksRlNGSh nose. Be struggles. The Pauly sinks into a deep chloroform from hisdface gloved hand removes the The only sound is the TICKING of the clock. We PULL BACK to reveal that we are:
the		removes a suitcase shutt.From hiskratty b lack Pauly's clothes, latches
face		The mummified Darkman isreflected carefully unwraps the than it is 's , the complexion a sh sould be . PTheyskin aulittle tighter little better.
he		s t e k c o P to watch a handfulrof Pauly'ss the medicine cabinet cologne.
guzman		Durant piss me off. How de hell should we know where Rick is? What are we, de baby-sitter? He places the briefcase on the floor and is about to slide it across, but hesitates. He eyes Darkman/Pauly suspiciously.
guzman		You okay, Pauly? You looking funny.
skip		What's with him?
guzman		lifts Pauly from the bed and shoves him into a chair. Pauly looks up to see:
durant		glaring down at him.
durant		Pauly... we've been very concerned about. You. Pauly doesn't have a clue. But the display of muscle isn't lost on him. He clutches at his sore head and
pauly		Hey, Mr. Durant...
durant		Where is the money, Pauly?
pauly		 p. What money? I didn't make the pick-u Durant crosses to the suitcase and picks up one of the airline tickets. His smile is strained.
durant		Rio... And first class. How delightful. (picks up other
pauly		Hey, I don't know nothing about that... I--
durant		Where is the money, Pauly?
pauly		What money?! I swear to God, Mr. Durant, I didn't make the pick-uP! I been right here sleepin'... Jesus, I swear to God!!
durant		Well, Pauly, I wouldn't want you to miss your flight.
pauly dummy		His body twists in the air, hurtling toward the ground.
julie		I want to thank you for a lovely evening, Louis. It's been a long time since I've been able to really enjoy myself--to forget... Can I offer you a drink? We pan the room to reveal Strack, just inside the front door.
strack		Thank you, whiskey neat. He takes off his coat.
strack		...Would it be all right if I used your telephone?
julie		It's on the etagere... Strack has already found it and is dialing.
did		Franz... Louis Strack here what gold close at in Zurich? play ...for fifty- Insai ou nd Kru nd Krug rrandsawhe the market th ousa e n orning. opens in the m Strack. hangs up the phone and turns towards Julie.
strack		E haven't felt this alive since the days of the Silver Puts and t o remember Calls. 'Course you're too you
julie		Don't be childish, Louis, it's unbecoming to fish for compliments. Strack laughs good-naturedly.
strack		like that ine. You away fanything. don't eleame get He sighs and sits down on the sofa, sips his drink and
nk		You know, as much as I'd like to thi differently, i suppose I'm not above the occasional childish bid for attention. Juliesmiles.
julie		Like anyone else.
strack		Like anyone else indeed. in all respects. It's difficult, somettiimess, being in a position of power--people defer to you, people tell you what short , , they think you want o ur humanity... they rob you of y you'll accuse me of pleading for sympathy again.
julie		No, I understand...
strack		turns away, setting his drink on a coaster. He notices Peyton's gift.
julie		..Were you ever married, Louis?
strack		Yes. Once upon a time. Married and in love -- deeply, deeply in love...
strack		I lost her...
julie		I'm sorry. Strack strains to conceal the bitterness of his grief.
strack		Private aircraft. over the Smokeys. Painless. Quick. utterly pointless. You can fight a disease. Another man? You can fight that too. But this... Quietly,_within himself:
strack		...I don't like things I can't fight. Their eyes meet, both united by loss.
julie		It must have been a terrible time. I wondered how you understood. About me. You've been very patient. And very kind. Strack smiles warmly. He takes her hand.
strack		God help us when there's no more room in this world for a little kindness...
skeletal fingers		impatiently TAP!-TAP!-TAPl upon the lab table.  CUT TO:  246  246 AN EYE It fills the screen. The pupil a black abyss. The capillaries red rivers.  CUTTO: -
shouts		looks at his carbonized claws in disgust. They at his bandaged skull. He stands suddenly and to the empty warehouse:
darkman		Pay five bucks. SEE THE DANCING
darkman		.I'm... a scientist.
peyton		Julie...
julie		Is it really...?
peyton		I--I'm sorry... I didn't know how to tell you...
julie		I thought you were dead...
dead		I was in a burn ward -- wa s burned. a ae- to the world. I Bad.
julie		You look the same. You look fine.
peyton		I am the same. I an fine. I...
needed to		e the Z same w with know if things could i
julie		Of course they can. But I don't understand. Where ---
peyton		e please, rythi I tell You justl need little
julie		Sold me, Peyton. Hold me and never let me go. I've been so unhappy and I want you to hold me forever.
peyton		Sweetheart. . I'm sorry.
julie		Peyton...
julie		Peyton, it's like you were never gone. I'm happy again, and it's like the time in between never happened.
peyton		It never happened. It was a bad dream. They kiss passionately. ve in the Dark theme comes on.
our view		circles the lovers... as we pass around Julie over to Peyton -- who is no longer Peyton, but transformed into:
the darkman		his horrible scarred face pressed against Julie's. .then lets out an Julie's eyes open. She reels back.
durant's hands		He places the object in a box, lined with red velvet. He takes a long, admiring look. We get only a glimpse.
guzman's voice		Jew want me to be at your place ... around 8:30?
durant's voice		That would be just fine for me. We are tracking off the cassette up a long cord that leads to a pair of headsets worn by Darkman. His eyes glisten through the slits of his bandages. A set of hands enter frame and crack him viciously across the head. He sprawls backward, caught off guard.
darkman's eyes		gleam like a shark as it bites.
darkman		turns to Mugger #2, as he pulls down the bandages from around his mouth, revealing: a terrible maw of black and crooked teeth, attached to a lipless jawbone. It jerks... and words come out:
the muggers		flee in fear.
julie		But why do you have to stay at this burn center? You can stay at my place now.
julie		Peyton, I still don't understand. Why didn't you come back to see me before now?
peyton		Well... it's like I told you. The burns left some scars and... I was ashamed. Afraid. I was afraid that you wouldn't want me anymore.
julie		Of course I still want you.
peyton		But...what if I was...burned. So horribly burned, that you couldn't stand to look at me. Couldn't stand to have me touch you. What then?
julie		Well...if that were the case... I don't know. But why even ask me that? The point is: You're fine. Your back. Just like always. She smiles. Peyton is filled with the warmth of being accepted and wanted once again.
peyton		Yeah. I am back, aren't I? Just like always.
durant's voice		That would be just fine for me.
the cat		sleeps. We hear the garbled chatter of the audio tape being rewound. We are panning past the Walkman, which is wired to the computer. The tape stops, then, as programmed, plays again.
durant's voice		That would be just fine for me. We pan past the back of the Darkman's head. The - bandages have been removed. Although his face is not visible, the singed hairless back of his skull is. It is not a pretty sight.
durant's voice		That would be just fine for me. The Darkman switches off the desk lamp and removes a mask from a black lightproof bag. He examines it, returns the mask to the bag, then slips it into his coat. The camera arcs around to see the bottom half of his skeletal face.
durant's voice		That would be... CLICK--the Darkman stops the tape mid-sentence and his own hideously charred mandible finishes it:
darkman		..just fine for me.
continued		cw. f
clerk		Wanna bag for that?
durant		That would be just fine for me. 292 The clerk bags the pizzas as Durant pulls out a 292 revolver from his suit coat. The clerk takes a Fearful step back.
clerk		Hey-hey, take it easy, buddy!
durant		Name ain't buddy. It's Durant. He waits for the video security camera to pan to him and stop. He cheats in toward the lens for a good clear close-up that fills the screen.. .Robert G. Durant
durant		Yeah, I'.m Robert G. Durant... The camera is pulling back to reveal that he is
two		standing in the open doorway of his home, facing cops. He glances at his watch.
durant		..But I'm in a hurry. Got a meeting at nine.
katz		.had it all on film. I almost didn't get 'em to post bail.
durant		Just keep 'em out of my hair.
katz		Hey where you going?
durant		The Mandarin! Fast! The cab PEELS out.
hung pat		Wahbuht! So good of you to favor me with your venerated presence! Please honor me by seating yourself in my shabby chair! Darkman/Durant remains impassively standing.
hung pat		. or do me the greater honor of remaining on your feet!
hung fat		The money! Yes! Wahbuht! How I tremble with shame. How I hide my face. He elaborately does so with his hands.
guzman		Studies Durant/Darkman with uncertainty. After another beat of uncomfortable silence, he decides to begin for his boss.
guzman		We no here for de bullshit, we here to pick up de money and thas what we do.
the darian		glances up at the harsh fluorescent light. He runs a. hand across the artificial flesh'of his face, checking for signs of decomposition. He sneaks a look to his...
watch		93 minutes.
hung fat		How I regret having to burden you with my miserable difficulties! I have no money! The Darkman's eyes shift. He was not expecting this. Hung Fat is waiting for an explosion. There is none. Sensing an advantage, he presses on.
hung fat		.The white powder no longer flows in iis former volume. All a members of
tong languish		in poverty...
guzman		Studies the Darkman hard. How can he tolerate this?
hung fat		And of all your unworthy servants, Hung Fat is the most destitute... As if in response to some silent signal, four enormous and muscular Chinese men enter and stand, arms crossed, in a threatening posture. Even Hung Fat's own minable slaves sometimes ignore his wishes, and attack those people whom Hung Fat cherishes most deeply! Wahbuht, they know nothing of our golden friendship!
guzman		is looking from Hung Fat to Durant/Darkman; what's wrong? Why doesn't he do something?
hung fat		So until that shining day -- may it soon come! -- when I shall once again be able to honor you with bounty, I bid you goodbye! Good bye, Wahbuht! He is shaking his hand, pressing his advantage, invading his physical space and making mockery of him!
hung fat		.. Wahbuht, goodbye!
rudy		can't believe his eyes.
the darxman		letting Hung Fat pump his hand like an idiot. Hung Fat drops his hand. It dangles lamely at his side. The Darkman walks over to a bamboo chair and slumps. closes his eyes and sighs. He removes a cigar from his breast pocket. With his eyes closed:
hung fat		His mocking smile disappears as he sees...
hung fat		dumbly nods. Without a trace of an accent:
hung fat		.Okay, Bob, you win.
body guard		Your lighter.
real durant		where is he?!
trumayne		Where's who?!
real durant		Guzman.
trumayne		I thought he was with you!
real durant		sprints for the restaurant.
real durwt		whose disbelieving face moves closer to get a better look.
guzman		stands upon the sidewalk, gaping in wonder.
guzman		Dios Mio! Aye que papa!
guzman		draws his gun and waits, sweating.
guzman		nods, recalibrates his orders and stands ready to fire.
guzman		doesn't know who to plug.
guzman		waves his gun back and forth, from one Durant to the other.
durant		slams Durant's face against the brick wall of the restaurant. One Durant falls to the pavement, clutching his head, groggy.
guzman		raises an uncertain gun to the standing Durant.
standing durant		Son of a bitch set me up with the cops and you practically hand him the cash!
guzman		watches warily as Standing Durant picks up the briefcase.
real durant		climbs to his feet, holding his bleeding head. He backhands Guzman across the face--CRACK! He grabs Guzman's gun and runs after his alter-ego.
guzman		woozily pulls a snub nosed .45 from his ankle holster and gamely follows.
real durant		gun in hand, and closing fast. A cart filed with crates is wheeled directly in his path. Real Durant gracefully leaps atop the crates, and never letting up his rain of fire, springs from them. While in free-fall, he ejects the spent cartridge and snaps in a fresh clip. He lands . firing!
we		in a shower
next		hear the frightened scatter.
durant		Got you.
durant		notes drops of blood which lead off the platform and down into the dark subway tunnel.
rudy		We ain't going in dere are we?! Durant pulls a tiny penlight from his pocket and leaps from the platform onto the track bed.
durant		holds up his hand commanding silence as-they come to an intersection of subway tunnels. Both lead into darkness. They listen, but all is quiet. They speak in hushed tones.
trumayne		Now what?
durant		You go that way. We'll take this one.
trumayne		doesn't look too thrilled by the prospect of being alone in the tunnels.
trumayne		Alone?
durant		No. Take a fucking squad of marines with you!
durant		tosses him the penlight. Hard. Casually he lights a cigar and continues forward.
trumayne		watches Durant and Guzman disappear down the tunnel. The sound of their footsteps recedes. Trumayne's breathing is shallow. He loosens his necktie and unbuttons his collar. He takes a breath.
trumayne		Okay.
it		An empty wine bottle at his feet is illuminated. rolls to a stop against the tunnel wall. He listens. Silence.
trumayne		Gettin' jumpy. Like Rick. A faint cough comes from the blackness ahead.
trumayne		raises the penlight.
trumayne		heaves the bottle at the sound.
his		Black. No sound.
trumayne		still waiting, nerves on edge. Where's the crash?!
his poy		The oppressive dark.
trumayne		shudders Something in the darkness has swallowed the bottle. He begins to back out of the tunnel the way he came. He freezes in the center of a tunnel intersection at the sound of FOOTSTEPS. Crunching on gravel; Approaching. He fingers the gun's trigger. Empty tunnels on all sides. The FOOTSTEPS quicken.
trumayne		Mr. Durant?! Panicked, Trumayne shines his light in front of him. Empty tunnel. The FOOTSTEPS come faster, closer.
trumayne		Guzman?! He jerks his penlight to the tunnel behind him. Nothing.
gun barrel		spits flame--BLAM!
a tunnel		is illuminated by the brilliant flash of the gun. Empty. The light fades.
gun barrel		spins and fires -- BOOM!
trumayne's eyes		are lit up. Crazed with fear. The illumination fades.
gun barrel		spins and spits sparks--BEAM!
another tunnel		illuminated--empty. The light fades.
guzman's eyes		look like saucers.
durant		even looks a little scared.
guzman		Oh shit, man. What did he do, man... eat him? From the tunnel ahead, FOOTSTEPS approach. The two men squint, attempting to pierce the blackness.
guzman		Trumayne?! The FOOTSTEPS grow louder. Closer.
guzman		.Hey, amigo, dat chew?! From the darkness, a figure emerges and runs at them.
trumayne		gagged, with his hands tied behind his back, a wild look of terror in his dead eyes.
durant		looks about, gets control, loads a fresh clip into his gun with an echoing SNAP.
guzman		waves his arms in surrender.
guzman		Good Bye. Das it. I'm outta here... Durant grabs him.
durant		Where the hell are you going?
guzman		pulls free.
train wheels		throw blue sparks into the darkness.
low angle		The long subway train rolls into the distance. It's rumble fades. Quiet. Durant's cigar smoulders on the tracks.
julie		We cut from Darkman's ravaged monster-face to:
julie		-- Peyton! Where have you been? Why haven't you called?
peyton		laughing, his face restored, walking down the midway, one arm draped over Julie's shoulder. She laughs with him. Peyton glances at his watch.
julie		Put away that watch or I'll think you don't like me anymore. Oh, Peyton, let's spend the whole day together -- the whole week! A beat.
peyton		I've got to tell you, Julie... I've got to tell you something about -- about me -- how I've changed. Julie turns.
peyton		In the fire -- I -- I A voice offscreen rises above the general noise:
julie		What?
julie		What's going on, Peyton? What are you keeping from me?
julie		Why do you always have to run? Peyton looks at the pyramid, avoiding her look. He throws the first ball; misses. -
peyton		I. have my treatment... I'm not a hundred percent cured yet--but I soon will be. He throws the second ball; misses.
julie		Can I take you back to the burn center? Peyton's vein begins to throb faintly.
peyton		No! No, please. I don't want you to see me there. I don't want you to think of me as...an invalid or... some kind of f--ff-fff--FREAK! On that word he throws the last ball with great force. The pyramid explodes. Peyton, breathing heavily, takes a moment to collect himself, then says quietly to the booth attendant:
peyton		...The pink elephant, please. The bored attendant, a cigarette dangling from his lower lip, shakes his head.
attendant		Sorry buddy. It don't count if you ain't standing behind that line.
peyton		I was behind the line.
attendant		Not hardly.
peyton		I was standing right here. Next to my girlfriend. Now. The pink elephant, .if you please!
attendant		Na way. Julie tugs at his sleeve.
julie		Peyton, it doesn't matter. Peyton is fighting to contain his rage. in clipped words, between gasps for breath:
peyton		It matters. I won a pink elephant. For my girlfriend.
julie		Peyton... It's okay...
attendant		Get lost, buddy.
peyton		The elephant... Quickly! The attendant unwisely pushes two fingers into Peyton's chest. We rocket into a close shot of the offending digits. From of fscreen, we hear the attendant's voice:
attendant		You heard me, weirdo. Get lost!
peyton		Screaming. A skin blister bubbles on his cheek.
peyton		Take it!
julie		Peyton! No!
peyton		'Take it!
julie		Please!
peyton		Forgive me! He runs off, the fuzzy pink elephant still clasped, forgotten, beneath one arm.
julie		Peyton!
darxman		disappears around a corner, trailing thin wisps Of smoke.
julie		Peyton?! 364 No answer. She cautiously advances. Her eyes fall 364 upon something that makes her gasp.
julie		Dear God.
julie		Peyton. .?
julie		Why didn't you tell me? If you loved me, why didn't you tell me?
julie		You had no right--
julie		coward!
julie		Do you think it was the face I cared about?! Is that how little you think of me?! Why didn't you come to me?
julie		I would have helped you. She stares into the shadows a long time without speaking.
julie		Don't you know I love you, Peyton? And no matter what--no matter what you've become I'll always love you?
dar khan		(too quietly to
strack		Huhh??:!
voice		Julie Hasting's to see you, Mr. Strack.
strack		Julie, how sweet of you to come before our appointed hour... but I expected-- you in something a little more formal. Didn't Ruth inform you that we have tickets to Der Fliedermause tonight?
julie		I can't go, Louis. We have to talk.
strack		Excellent! I love to talk. Brandy?
julie		Thank you, no.
strack		I'll have one;_ As he walks to a bar and pours himself a drink.
strack		...Fair warning--it's Napoleon, and it's quite good--
julie		Louis, I can't see you anymore.
strack		Darling, settle down. Don't be rash. As you say, let's talk.
julie		You know about Peyton, the man I was
julie		Louis, he's alive. He's back. He was burned, horribly, horribly burned--I don't understand what happened but I know he needs my help. Strack is visibly taken aback. He sets the brandy down.
strack		.Your news has a bittersweet flavor... Of course I'm very happy for you. If there's anything I can do-- the finest medical care can be at your disposal--burn therapy, recon- structive surgery. How badly was he... mutilated? Julie has broken down. She sits down on Strack's sofa, her body wracked with sobs.
strack		... Where is he, Julie?
julie		He's living in an abandoned warehouse. He's alone... he needs me. The phone RINGS. Strack crosses to the desk and picks it up.
strack		Not now!... Who?... All right, I'll take it in the other room. He looks up at Julie.
strack		I won't be a moment. He walks into an adjoining room. He picks up the phone.
strack		Yes, Franz... And the closing price?...
julie		She reaches for a tissue. Next to it is.
her pov		Strack's briefcase sitting on top of his desk.
julie		Wipes a tear from her eyes. She moves closer.
julie's pov		A sheaf of papers stick up above the mouth of the briefcase.
strack's voice		Yes. The Belasarious memorandum.
julie		whirls to face him. He stands looking down over her shoulder.
strack		.I'm sorry you had to find that, dear. Our relationship didn't need this further strain.
julie		The fire... it wasn't an accident, it was you.
strack		Not me personally. I have an employee who does certain things for me, unofficially, off the books. Robert doesn't like to pay taxes.
strack		Hardly. You have nothing on me, my dear, and you'd find the extremely expensive police department quite unsympathetic. . Julie. Consider the big picture.
strack		I suppose this is goodbye then. Julie stares hatefully at him for a beat, then hurries out the door.
strack		Send Robert in. Strack strolls over to the window and stares out at his rising city. OS the door clicks open.
i strack		Robert! I have good news and bad.
durant		Custom dictates that you render the bad news first.
strack		You recall the little difficulty with my father and how you resolved it. We have a similar situation with Miss Hastings. It seems Miss Hastings has uncovered some unflattering information about us.
durant		No problem at all. And the good news?
strack		Your wife died. I'm joking, of course. No, the good news is that I know who's behind our little troubles of late. When you retrieved my memorandum, you failed to excise the good doctor.
durant		Westlake? He's dead. I saw to it myself.
strack		He's alive. I don't like loose ends, Robert. Finish it.
durant		Okay. Where is he? Strack smiles.
strack		I believe we have a guide.
julie		turns to run.
julie		Peyton!! Guzman races out of one continental, Smiley out the other.
a helicopter		rises suddenly into frame, over the edge of Peres a roof. leaning , o undin h h machine gun , p g t e roof with gunfire.
durant		Peg 'em!
a door		is kicked open as Smiley and Guzman enter, guns ps blazing, shooting the lab to hell. The gunfire sto and the lab is quiet. Guzman speaks quietly into a walkee-talkee.
guzman		we're in.
guzman		Glances above to the darkened rafters ofathence one to warehouse. Then, signals for Smiley way. He will go another. They split up.
guzman		...Holy San Juan de fuckeen Capistrano!
the footsteps		405 Smiley turns off the walkee-talkee. i m. are almost atop him. He takes a
triplicate and		looks from the dead Smiley to his short as the SHRIEKS! But it's mercifully cut Darkman is upon him.
durant		Guzman, come in! Smiley! Guzman! What the fuck is going on down there?! A burst of STATIC. Then:
durant		I want that son of a bitch eliminated! And I don't want his fingers, I want his fucking head!
durant		Where are you?! Pilot.and Durant look toward the entrance of the warehouse. The door is closed. Suddenly...
to		WHOMPI--a bandaged hand slams into Durant's chest grab bim and start hauling him towards the door. The Darkman is dragging him out towards the roof.
darkman		is yanked from his feet.
the helicopter		climbs, lifting the Darkman clear of the rooftop.
the dean		is hurled through the window of an office on the 70th floor of a skyscraper.
darkman's pov		The faces of the executives whirling in a circle like numbers on a roulette wheel.
durant		Dip him!
strack		We've consolidated the waterfront, Governor ...Yes, I'm aware there's been some unpleasantness but that's over now. Yes, I'm sure. You sound a little nervous, Bryant. Have a brandy, watch a cop show. The door opens. A security officer appears.
security officer		Robert Durant, sir.
robert durant		enters. He looks awful--face scorched and bruised, severe limp.
strack		You look like hell, Robert.
durant		The son of a bitch malfunctioned my helicopter.
strack		And Westlake?
durant		'f ie man's a cockroach. You think you ;tall him, and he pops up someplace , Ise. A beat.
strack		g expect he'll pop up here soon.
strack		I'm glad you survived, Robert. I'd hate to see your kids deprived of a role-model.
durant		They do look up to me. The elevator grinds to a halt and the two emerge. The lights of the city tremble over the water. A glitter and breadth to the landscape, an urban grandeur.
strack		Kids need an example, Robert. When I was a young man my father made me work high steel. That's how he started out, and in his view what was good enough for him was good enough for me...
strack		...It was just me and the Indians, no one else crazy enough to run around up here, against the wind, four-fifty an hour. Sure I resented it, but now-- call me crazy--sometimes I miss it, it sharpens your wits. Life on the edge. Five inches wide. Two hundred fifty feet down. High steel... He turns to face Durant. There's a gun in his hand.
strack		You don't have any kids, Robert.
durant		What are you talking about?
strack		Or should I say, Doctor Westlake?
dur ant		I'm Durant! Robert G. Durant!
strack		Then I'm going to make a mistake. There's a long beat. The vein begins to pulse on Durant's temple. His eyes grow predatory, evil.
strack		You want to see the girl? Follow me, I'll take you to her... Durant/Darkman follows, taking the first few tentative steps.
strack		...I must say, Dr. Westlake, you've certainly worked some mischief. Pretty much wiped out the security arm of Strack Industries. That's okay. I'm a good sport... He leaps from beam to beam, Durant/Darkman following cautiously behind.
strack		...And I can handle my own problems. I do whatever I have to do. In fact, that's how I got my first properties. My wife--late wife--held certain deeds... I sent her on a plane trip over the Smokies and well, let's just say ;landed on My feet...
strack		Then share my dream. After all, you and I are pretty much the same. We should be working together. Both smart fellows. Similar styles. Same taste in women. I could use a man like you.
strack		Eventually, eventually... He proceeds nimbly along the beam.
strack		I guess you just don't have what it takes. I gather you run around wearing other people's faces now, since yours is so... loathsome. He shrugs.
strack		.See I could never do that. The world has to take me as I am. And all this tit-for- tat stuff you've been up to. Silly. Living in the past. ; only destroy to build something better, whereas You.. ah, here we are.
strack		Bring on the strings! Young lovers! In peril! Separated by ruthless forces, larger than they!--What a banal tale. In it, I suppose I play the villain. But wait, Julie--which of us is the monster here?! With this he reaches over to Durant and--SQUISHHHRIPPP!! -- tears his face off, tossing it over the edge..
the world		Spinning upside down--stars, abyss, stars, abyss--
girder		As Darkman's fingertips clamp onto the upper lip of an I-beam... barely hanging on, vein pulsing.
julie		recoils as Strack stops in front of her. He touches her hair.
strack		-It is the tragedy of my life that I always have to kill the ones I love. As he's about to push her:
of		battle it out on the narrow girder, hundreds of feet sure death on either side of them.
dariom		swoops onto Strack, pummelling him.
stracr's hand		inching painfully toward the rivet gun.
darkman		pummelling, lost in the act of his final revenge. He steps back to give a final blow... .and slips on some loose rivets, flailing for balance.
strack		lunges. CLANG! Darkman slams into a vertical bar.
strack		Now you get to watch your girl-friend die. He moves toward a terrified Julie.
darxman		SHRIEKS and reality melts around him as he tastes the hot soup of rage.
darkman		pounces. He lifts him full into the air. Strack's legs and arms flail impotently.
julie		Peyton, I can help.
darkman		No one can help.
julie		I don't care how you look, Peyton! I. love you. The burns don't matter. There's a long pause. Then Darkman turns the twisted remains of. his face toward her. Julie sees them in close-up. CLAMP! The elevator jars to a halt on street level.
darkman		Take my hand. Julie stares at the charred skeletal fingers. She overcomes her repulsion and puts her hand in his.
darkman		It disgusts you.
julie		No. Darkman stares at her a long time, anguished, torn.
darkman		This hand... it used to caress you. Now it can only tear, rip away at things.
darkman		It's not just the scars. I've changed- He grips his skull.
darkman		--inside. He pulls the elevator open.
julie		(tears in her
darkman		What we had--our life together--it belonged in the light of day. He disappears into the darkness.
julie		Peyton! Darkman's voice floats back as he stalks away:
darkman		Peyton is gone... 466 He heads into the shadows. At the edge of the darkness 466 he pulls a mask from his coat and disappears behind a construction trailer. A pedestrian reappears on the other side. Julie knows it's!Darkman. She chases after him but he slips into the pedestrian traffic. The camera hurries down the street with Julie as she desperately searches for him, turning people around, staring at their faces... It begins to snow.
julie		Peyton! She rushes from pedestrian to pedestrian, staring into alien faces in search of the man she loves.
****Dialogues from script :Date_Night.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Dave_Barry_s_Complete_Guide_to_Guys.txt****

leopold		Okay sit tight. Company's coming. THROUGH BINOCULARS NOW, as TWO DEADLY MEN approach like barracudas. A THIRD GUY, BEHIND THEM, the KINGPIN they're protecting. Then as TREETOPS BLOCK THE VIEW --
leopold		Shit. Hang on. Leopold scans, looking for them. Searching, until he FINDS --
stearns		Oh, mama. She bends, twists; water streams down every delicious curve.
leopold		She sure is taking her time...
stearns		She must be really salty...
leopold		 Hell, one time I was in Hawaii? And these three models --
stearns		Wait a minute.  Hawaii.
leopold		-- Shit! He WHIPS THE BINOCULARS back: but all that's left is the Chihuahua. Then, walking into the spot --
dave		Hi, I'm Dave Barry. Has something like this ever happened to you? (bends down to pet
dave		Scientists call this condition "Lust Induced Brain Freeze." It affects millions of guys, every day, in all walks of life -- causing anything from a mild embarrassment, to an international incident. He stops. Finds LEOPOLD and STEARNS and SEVERAL OTHER AGENTS pointing GUNS at him.
leopold		Hand over the dog.
dave		Hey. I didn't even know it was a dog. They take it from him; rush it away. Dave turns to CAMERA.
dave		Notice I didn't say it's a condition that affects men every day -- only guys. And that subtle but important difference is one of the things this movie is about.
wife		You'll never get away with this. I'll sue you down to your last penny.
husband		Good luck - I transferred everything we own into private accounts, where you can't touch it. In fact, as of now, you're broke.
wife		But...why?
husband		I've fallen in love with another woman. A younger woman. Prettier, with no cellulite. Actually, I think you'd like her.
wife		You bastard. The IMAGE FREEZES. Dave walks into the room.
dave		Now clearly, this woman is dealing with a Man.
wife		I just want you to know, I've thought about this a lot.
guy husband		Mm.
wife		And I've talked it over with everyone I know.
wife		So there's nothing left to do now, but leave you, forever, and only see you from across a shiny conference table with bloodthirsty lawyers all around it.
guy husband		 -- Okay.
wife		"Okay?" That's all you have to say?  Well then I guess this is it. She pushes back from the table, starts off.
guy husband		Wait a minute.
guy husband		 What's the matter with these people?
bartender		Beats me. I saw this on the eight o'clock.
guy husband		He's the backbone of the whole team! They're pikers without Lupenza!
wife		I'll see you in court.
guy husband		-- I gotta call Lenny. He takes out his cell phone. She levels a look.
wife		Maybe you should call your lawyer too.
guy husband		If he could hit left-handed pitching, I would.
lenore		Well when I met him, I didn't know so much. About guys, or men or what have you -- we just didn't talk about such things then. In fact, I didn't see him naked until quite well into our marriage. When was it Albert?
albert		A year ago. By accident.
lenore		Anyway. I thought I was marrying a man, but didn't know that in his heart, he was a guy.
lenore		Not long after the wedding. But it didn't bother me. I just didn't know how to recognize the signs. But we've learned to live with it. Haven't we, Albert?  Albert.
albert		It's twelve hundred and thirty-one miles from this spot right here, to Cleveland.
lenore		What does that have to do with anything? He holds up the device - handheld GPS.
albert		Six hundred fifty-one from Atlanta.
lenore		Who cares how far we are from Atlanta?
albert		You have a cousin there.
lenore		Albert. There's a person here asking us questions. There's a film crew here. He looks up at the CAMERA, as if just noticing someone there. Then holding up the GPS --
albert		You. Where do you live.
albert		What part. Lenore buries her head.
dave		Like a lot of big cities, Miami is known for its sizeable population of guys. So we came here to take the city's pulse on the subject.
secretary		Let me put it this way. Everyone I ever dated was a male. I mean they were all men. But only some of them were guys. You know?
secretary		 -- The guys were funnier. But the men were more responsible. You could almost half-believe them when they told you something sometimes.
secretary		That would be a woman.
horse groomer		Well guys, they're sort of like your older brother. And men are like your dad.
horse groomer		Your older brother doesn't have to grow up. Your dad came that way.
dave		So now you have some background on basic guy attributes. But before we move on, let's look at one more scene and see where you stand --
elaine		Roger?
roger		 Oh man you gotta show that again Shepauses; chews her pen...
elaine		Roger...I think I really love you.
elaine		I'm not asking whether you want to get married. Only whether you believe that we have some kind of a future together. That you, and I - have a future.
john madden		Now this is just what you want in a playoff game. You got snow, you got mud, you got a lead that keeps changing, you got two great teams that just hate each other to the bone and would rather die than give up... Roger looks...then takes the REMOTE and TURNS OFF THE TV - waving Elaine over, who cuddles into him.
roger		I've been thinking too, Elaine. And for the first time in my life, I'm feeling like I might really be close to a lasting commitment. I haven't said anything up until now because it's always been important to me that I not mislead you. But yes, Elaine. I want to think that we dQ have a future. And with a little more time, I think I could be sure.
elaine		Oh, Roger... He smiles. Strokes her hair and pulls her in even closer. They share a long deep sigh together, As the PICTURE FREEZES and DAVE WALKS IN.
dave		If this was how you responded, you're not a guy. You may not even exist.  On the other hand...
elaine		I'm not asking whether you want to get married. Only whether you believe that we have some kind of a future together. That you, and I - have a future.  Roger?
roger		 What. FREEZE on her look, and --
sheryl crow		Well there were always guys at my shows - right from the beginning. I mean you start out playing beer halls, right? So when you have beer, you have guys. And it sorta just grew from there. But I was okay with it. They didn't cause much trouble.
sheryl crow		Men cause trouble.
sheryl crow		Long as they buy the records...
dave		So where did this all start? Many experts now think they know where men came from, but what about Guys? where did they come from? He stops, peels off a THICK BOOK full of science things.
dave		To answer this question accurately, we might have to look something up. So instead we'll travel back to prehistoric sub-Saharan Africa, and get there just in time for the Dawn of Guys.
primate roger		Grunt grunt grunt grunt grunt!
primate gene		Grunt grunt!0 Ha ha!
primate lenny		Grunt grunt grunt! 0 That's really funny!
primate phil		Grunt ...0 I don't get it... The other three look at him.
primate roger		Grunt grunt?0 Whassup?
primate pete		Grunt grunt grunt. 0 Nothing. We've been hunting.
primate gene		Grunt grunt? 0 Where are your jagged rock slabs?
primate louie		Grunt? Slabs? (looks at Primate
primate roger		Where'd you get that?
primate pete		Primate Discount Manny. He just got them in.
primate roger		Mind if I have a look?
primate pete		Be my guest. He hands it over. Primate Roger lays down his jagged rock slab to check it out. His buddies gather round.
primate gene		How do you kill an animal with that?
primate louie		You throw it.
primate lenny		You mean you don't chase the old ones until they get tired and then hit them with the jagged rock slabs?
primate pete		 You can stand in one place all day. And when they go by, you just let loose. He shows a throwing motion. The first four look intrigued.
primate louie		You can carry more than one - and if you're throwing uphill, it rolls back down if you miss. It's so much easier with these.
primate gene		-- I'm sticking with mine.  We've been using these jagged slabs forever. And you know why? Because they work. And anyway, killing them is only half of it -- how are you gonna skin a wildebeest with that? They look at Primate Pete: Yeah, how? But he's there.
primate pete		We get the women to do it. They look among themselves. They like it. But then.
primate roger		How?
primate pete		-- I'm working on it.
primate elaine		 Please don't tell me you got rid of your jagged rock slab.
primate roger		But these are great!
primate elaine		But you didn't kill anything.
primate roger		Nobody's going with jagged slabs anymore.
primate elaine		But the kids are hungry.
primate roger		What about your pounded roots?
primate elaine		Pounded roots are a side dish. They need balance in their diets.  And another thing - suppose you do start bringing animals home using this -- who's going to skin and clean them? He looks at her-the SOUND of TOMORROW'S ROOSTER CROWING as
elaine		Five hundred dollars?
roger		It can hold a thousand addresses.
elaine		So can my address book.
roger		Can your address book pick up your em-ail?
elaine		No but my computer can.
roger		Well this can do both.
elaine		For five hundred dollars it should give me a manicure, Roger! It should drive me home from work at night! HOW could you spend that kind of money without discussing it first? On Roger's look...the PICTURE FREEZES. Dave walks in.
dave		There's a whole list of things a guy is supposed to discuss first. Unfortunately, he never knows what they are until he's already not discussed them.
explorer elaine		Well did you ask?
explorer roger		This is a shortcut. Explorer Elaine shakes her head. Dave enters.
dave		There's a very simple reason why guys don't ask for directions. It's because they know that if they do, someone else - most likely Visigoths - will come and steal their woman. CAMERA PANS to the side rails, where a CLUSTER OF HUNGRY VISIGOTHS nod, slobbering, confirming this.
explorer elaine		I just want to get to Colonial America.
colonial reporter		-- and this is your way of expressing the public outrage over the high- handed anti-democratic actions of the British Government in general and King George III in specific?
colonial roger		 Uh, yeah.
colonial reporter		Might I ask, sir, whose idea was this?
colonial reporter		The one drinking coffee?
colonial roger		That's him. His name's Starbuck. He said to get rid of all the tea.
colonial roger		I didn't do that. (then as the Reporter
lila		Well that's pretty much how it is right now, right? They don't grow up. Or, they grow up, but they don't change.
sidra		No they grow up all right -- but only just enough - you know?
sidra		With credit cards.
lila		And a phone.
mia		And give them ten minutes on their own? Or put them in with other guys? Now you've gone nuclear.
dave		In learning to understand Guys today, it's important to remember that these same guys, only yesterday, were just kids.
dave		See? Humans. He walks past with his takeout order. As ELAINE at 8 notices Roger, blushing, taking all this punishment because of her.
dave		Where are we in the area of Guy Violence, Doctor.
scientific expert		Well first, one must understand the inherent differences in DNA and cell structure as relates to men and women.
dave		And what can be done about that.
scientific expert		well, some of my esteemed colleagues are quite keen on the idea of tampering with the DNA itself - an idea with which I heartily disagree. The bastards...
dave		Then what would you recommend.
scientific expert		Me? Well they can start by spreading out the funding a little bit. Let a few other scientists wet their beaks. I mean what's the point of rewarding the same tired old hacks, year after
dave		I meant about Guy Violence.
dave		I see. Can I ask you a question?
scientific expert		Certainly.
dave		Where'd you get that laser pointer.
scientific expert		It's mine.
dave		A lot of work has been done in the field of children's toys and how they unconsciously reinforce gender roles. Studies have found that over ninety-three per cent of this work is done by researchers who don't have children of their own. But to test the theory anyway, we're here at Toy World Warehouse Planet.
dave		Hi! My friend here is looking for toys for his son that are gender neutral, environmentally sound, and culturally unbiased!
sales guy		Here it is. He brings up a box with a picture of a spinning top on it.
sales guy		It's recyclable.
ed		Well I'm into fireworks. I like to take 'em apart, you know. And study 'em. See what makes 'em tick.
ed		I just got these from Ohio. I don't think they're as good as the ones I got from Tennessee. Not as loud, you know?
dave		Well no, if loud is your --
ed		If you want to hear loud - listen to this. He goes over to a different box, takes out what looks like a stick of dynamite. Gets ready to light it; turns to CAMERA.
ed		You may want to step back a couple hundred yards.
dave		So when we see guys like Ed, and his fireworks - or guys shooting marine flares into innocent pumpkins, or building catapults that'll throw a Buick - we should not condemn them. We should not assume these are just pointless juvenile activities. Instead we should be convinced they are, and move on to Guys in the Workplace.
philadelphia girl		Guys at work? Or guys doing work.
broker		Ten, fifteen years ago? A guy would call you up with some joke he just heard. So you wanna pass it on, it's by phone. One person at a time. Then a while later, some guy calls you up with the same exact joke. Then when group faxing came in, it really sped things up. Next thing you know there's like ten faxes on your machine, from places you never even heard of. Places around the world, I'm saying.
dave		And how long would that take.
broker		A run of the mill, 'guy walks into a bar' joke, those'd take about .a. week to come back to you. The topical ones, your mass murders and tragic accidents and the like, they're naturally gonna have a lot more heat on them and they'll circulate a lot quicker. I mean no one's gonna sit on a Princess Diana joke until three weeks after the crash. No one i know, anyway.
dave		A lot of people don't understand the attention and the kind of importance these jokes have.
broker		Who.
dave		No one knows that.
elaine		So I get this call at work. (then to Roger back
roger		Its just a sprain.
elaine		 I get on the phone and they say he's okay - but maybe I should come down to the paper and get him. Does he look okay?
roger		It's a sprain. It just looks worse.
elaine		Not the way I heard it.
patrick		He's how old?
tom		High school. A sophomore.
gene		Big deal. I could run the forty that fast.
tom		You and who - the Flash? This kid set a national record.
gene		Yeah? What nation.
roger		Why would there be an article about a poem.
elaine		I'm just saying. I don't see the four of you fighting over who can write the better sonnet.
roger		So?
elaine		So no one gets hurt writing sonnets.
roger		 It's a sprain.
gene		When did you last run the forty?
patrick		Hey. I could beat you in the forty running backwards.
tom		You couldn't even beat your butt running backwards.
roger		 Will you guys cut it out? They stop. Look at him.
roger		The kid in the story's in high school. You're not. You're supposed to be adults and you're bragging about who can beat who in a stupid footrace.
tom		No one's bragging.
patrick		Gene's just saying he can run the forty in under six seconds.
roger		Hey. I can do it in under six seconds. FREEZE THE PICTURE, on their expressions. BRING UP "CHARIOTS
elaine		I don't know why I listened to you. You need to see a doctor.
roger		It's a sprain, Elaine.
elaine		Roger you can't walk.
roger		It'll work itself out. She gives him a look. Parks him long enough to close the door behind him. Without her support, he drops to the floor. She turns to the CAMERA.
elaine		Why won't they go to the doctor?
doctor		Here's why. He holds up a RUBBER GLOVE. Dangles it harmlessly.
doctor		I don't care who they are. If they think there's even a chance their doctor will use one of these - and they always assume there is - they won't come in.
guy doctor		What seems to be the problem?
guy patient		Well the main thing is, I keep coughing up blood. And I get these really severe chest pains, and double vision sometimes. And every night at sunset, little worms come burrowing out of my skin.
guy doctor		It's just a sprain.
guy patient		That's what I thought.
dave		A lot has been said about how guys don't share their feelings.
mia		Or they have them and don't acknowledge them.
lila		Or they don't think that others have them.
sidra		Or they just don't think.
dave		(as they agree on
lila		And their underwear.
mia		Once. I nearly lost my life.
sidra		They act like it's so sacred. I've seen pairs of briefs with holes in them larger than the leg holes.  I tried to throw a pair out once? And sneak it past him? He went out into the garbage and found them. He said he couldn't trust me after that.
sidra		I don't even want to think about it.
dave		 So you agree then, that guys at least have feelings.
mia		They just waste them. That's all.
elaine		Now remember. Gene's dad is real sick. Kelly says he doesn't talk about it. So see if you can draw him out.
roger		He already did talk about it.
elaine		Oh? What did he say?
roger		He said his dad is real sick. She gives him a look. Gets to the door.
roger		What are those?
elaine		Kelly's boss is turning forty.
roger		So you're giving her magazines?
elaine		 Just see if you can get him to talk.
roger		Galaxians. Far out...
gene		(while Roger keeps
roger		They get everybody.
gene		I know. They suck.
roger		I know. Silence. Roger pulls out two cartridges, compares them.
gene		I got to Level 24 of Arkanoids.
roger		You've seen the Evil Presence?  What's it look like? Gene shrugs; even the best of friends. Roger understands. CAMERA PANS to Dave.
dave		Believe it or not, ladies - that was sharing.  And believe it or not, guys - so is
elaine		Well I don't know. How do you think she feels about getting older?
kelly		I don't know... I know how I felt. How did you feel about it?
elaine		How does anybody feel.
elaine		Well if we go that way, we know who to invite.
kelly		But then who do we not invite.
elaine		Exactly. And how are they going to feel about that.
kelly		So maybe we should make it a slightly larger gathering.
elaine		-- Depends on the food, I guess. I mean, if we go with a larger gathering...
kelly		Exactly.
elaine		(finds the right
kelly		Oh - I've seen that one too. They open to the article, scanning it.
elaine		Hmm.
kelly		Hmm.
elaine		You thinking what I'm thinking?
kelly		That if we have low fat hors d'oeuvres she'll think we noticed she's gaining weight?
elaine		Exactly.
elaine		Thinking she won't think we've noticed the weight gain.
kelly		Unless she thinks that's insensitive. You know, that we hadn't noticed...
elaine		Hmm... They close the magazine, look through the others when:
kelly		How about medium fat hors d'oeuvres?
elaine		And we could cut them into smaller pieces?
elaine		And how would she feel about that...
gene		That one has the GPS. With the screen that has maps of everything?
roger		What about with the convertible.
gene		It's optional on the convertible. Unless you get the turbo, then it's standard.
roger		Phil Wonkerman got the turbo.
gene		No shit...Phil got a Porsche?
roger		Said it was his birthday present to himself.
roger		Beats me. Probably around the same time when he got the car.
gene		No shit...
roger		 He just got a Porsche.
gene		Right. They look at the TV again. Then, from the kitchen doorway:
elaine		Roger? They turn. Elaine gives Roger a look. PICTURE FREEZES AS:
dave		Roger met Elaine at a company event.
dave		-- They discovered they had something in common right away. He points to ROGER and ELAINE, over by a tiki-torch.
elaine		You're kidding! That was you? At the Burger King?
roger		I was in fourth grade.
elaine		I was too! But my God, you remembered that?
dave		 She loved that he remembered that.
dave		 A few nights later, he asked her out. He points over to the LANE where they're bowling.
dave		They had a good time, and so he asked her again. And then before too long they were seeing each other regularly, and not seeing anyone else.
roger		What.
elaine		Nothing... She smiles; gets in. Roger pauses. CAMERA PANS TO DAVE.
dave		Roger has no idea that this was a defining moment for her. Roger gets in. Fuzzy but not sure why.
elaine		Do you realize that, as of tonight, we've been seeing each other for exactly six months? CAMERA HOLDS on her. She waits.
elaine		Roger?
elaine		Roger.
elaine		Please don't torture yourself like this. Maybe I should never have...
elaine		I'm such a fool. I mean I know there's no knight. I really know that. It's silly. There's no knight, and there's no horse.
roger		There's no horse? He looks up; his OVAL IMAGE SHRUGS; gets up off the stool.
elaine		You think I'm a fool, don't you?
roger		(reacting to the Oval
elaine		It's just.. .well I need ...time, I think. I think I need some time. Roger looks up at his OVAL IMAGE: gone. He looks at Elaine.
roger		-- Time. Yes.
elaine		(moved, touches his
roger		What way?
elaine		About time. Do you feel that way about time? Roger looks confused. His OVAL IMAGE is off playing pool now. He turns to Elaine; does his best to look decisive.
roger		Oh. Well. Yes. Yes I do, feel that way. About time.
roger		-- Thank you. They smile. Look forward. He looks a little nervous. She looks serene...
blaine		Come on, Kelly -- pick up.
roger		Hey, Ref - look alive. Those guys were offsides.
roger		Who, the Albanians or the Moroccans.
roger		I know. He eats some more Doritos. But then suddenly-he pauses.
roger		I think I missed something back there.
roger		 No I mean in the car.
kelly		.and you said 'there's no knight.'
kelly		Did you say 'no knight and no horse,' or 'no horse and no knight?' She looks at Elaine.. This is crucial.
elaine		I said 'no knight.' And then I said 'no horse.'
kelly		But maybe not the horse. Elaine racks her brain; just can't say for sure.
kelly		It's probably not important...  This is really it for you. Isn't it.
elaine		 Really it.
kelly		 Does he know it? Elaine looks up; she has no idea.
roger		Check. .who passes it right back.
gene		Check.
roger		Listen.
gene		What.
roger		 -- Elaine and I.
gene		Elaine and you what.
roger		 We sort of have this -- thing. He looks at Gene. Conveys the full impact of this. Then --
roger		Did she ever mention owning a horse?
gene		Who.
roger		Elaine. She ever talk about horses? Like, to Kelly or something?
gene		Not that I know of. Why? Roger thinks.. .then shakes it off. Throws the ball to Gene.
roger		What's the score.
gene		We haven't started yet. They start to play. CAMERA FINDS DAVE, on a nearby bench.
dave		Roger's in love.
sheryl crow		I can sympathize with your friend, man. I've seen a lot of guys go there.
dave		Do you have any advice for a guy in love?
sheryl crow		I don't know - most of my songs are about guys out of love.
dave		I see.
sheryl crow		Cause you know, a guy in love - a guy who's where your friend's at, anyway - they don't know where they are. They're like an ant, standing on a truck tire. They don't know how they got there - all they know is that's not where they were a minute ago. But then they sort of get vaguely okay with it, you know? They start hangin' out there, they're feelin' pretty good.
dave		What happens then.
sheryl crow		Well then they get crushed. Dave gulps. She shrugs.
sheryl crow		Rock and roll, my friend. Life in the city.
old man		November 8, 1960. The day John Kennedy beat Nixon and won the White House. That was the day I met her. His WIFE turns, looks at him funny.
old man		It was close the whole way - it was neck and neck by God. But then old Kennedy Senior rode on in on that big old pile of money of his, and fixed the results in Illinois. And that made all the difference. Happiest day of my life, just about. She watches him. The man is hopeless.
old man		I was walking away from a newspaper stand, with my head buried in the final edition. And I looked up, and there she was. (he looks over at his
old man		What.
old lady		That wasn't me.
old man		Of course it was you. What are you talking about?
old lady		It was your first wife.
old man		Nonsense.
old man		Don't believe her.
old lady		I've never owned a yellow sun dress in my life. And even if I did, I wouldn't be wearing it in November.
old man		 -- The point is, in 1960 an Irish Catholic could be elected president of this fine country, as long as his father was a filthy rich rum-runner with connections to the Mafia! And when Nixon did get elected, he had to quit! His wife shakes her head.
kelly		Well we didn't know each other. I mean, of course we didn't - we hadn't met yet. But we were both invited to the same party, by different people who we only knew marginally - only the party got cancelled, and I guess that's how marginal we were, because no one told us. So we came in different cars and found ourselves at the same front door - with no one home.  So Gene asked me out to eat.
gene		I was hungry.
kelly		You were in love.  You told me you loved me, that first night!
gene		I said I loved mashed potatoes.
kelly		You were eating mashed potatoes. You said you loved me. You said because your name was Gene and mine was Kelly, that that just proved it. We were meant to be together.
gene		(off her look; then
dave		Contrary to what many women believe, it's fairly easy to develop a long term, stable, intimate and mutually fulfilling relationship with a guy. As long as this is the guy:
dave		With human guys, it's extremely difficult. This is because guys don't really grasp what women mean by the term 'relationship.'
jersey girl		What I don't get is how they can be a fully grown adult male and not be able to make a commitment to a woman who loves him like no one else - and yet the same person, at age seven, could make an unbreakable lifelong commitment to the San Francisco Giants, who do not even know him and who never will.  I just don't get it.
seattle girl		They're never "ready." If you ask me, guys are in a permanent state of nonreadiness. That's where they live. If guys were turkey breasts, you could put one in a 350 degree oven on the Fourth of July and they still wouldn't be ready in time for Thanksgiving.
chicago girl		The thing is, you shouldn't even think about marrying them until you really know them. But you can't really know them until you marry them.  That's the thing.
manhattan girl		One: A guy will have sex with anything. Two: A guy will do anything to have sex. There's your Guy Fidelity. Move on.
elaine		What do you mean, it's 'supposed to be that way.' It's stuck.
roger		It's basic physics, Elaine. Wood expands. And then, later, it contracts.
elaine		But we can't get out.
roger		Which also means other people can't get in. That's part of the design - it discourages burglars.
elaine		 The same way the toaster was designed to discourage carbohydrate consumption by bursting into flames?
roger		That was an outdoor toaster. It was clearly not designed for indoor situations. The PICTURE FREEZES. DAVE steps in front, talks to CAMERA.
dave		I think it's obvious here, that Roger has absolutely no idea what he's talking about. But Guy Pride forces him to keep acting like he does know, for reasons I believe we've covered in an earlier scene. He nods his head over to the corner, where the CAMERA PANS TO SEE HUDDLED VISIGOTHS, WAITING. Then BACK TO ROGER AND ELAINE as the PICTURE UNFREEZES.
elaine		Okay. So now we have a broken water heater and a stuck front door.
roger		"Steve."
dave		 As far as women are concerned, God didn't really rest on the seventh day. On the seventh day, God created Steve. As the Women all sigh...
elaine		Roger? Did you find anything?
roger		Good news, honey! The basement's level.
elaine		How can you tell?
roger		Because I know a well built floor when I see one! We were right to buy this house. Everything works just the way it should!
elaine		Except there's no hot water.
roger		 Sweetheart, don't you remember? The power company talked about this.
elaine		How about calling Steve.
elaine		 But Roger you're such a good copy editor. You don't have to be a good repairman too! Honest!
roger		Okay I think I found it.
elaine		The problem?
roger		The water heater. Elaine leans her head against the door jam.
elaine		I don't know why he does this. He doesn't know what he's doing down there...
kelly		It'll be all right.
elaine		 It's not like some broken part is just going to be standing there, waving a flag that says "Help me." Or there'll be an octopus on the compressor, and then he could say, "Look! There's an octopus on the compressor!"
kelly		Trust me, it'll all work out. After a while, there's no more harm they can do. Roger comes around from the side door. SLOSHING feet. Holds a dripping PART.
roger		I just need to go to the hardware store. Hi Kelly. Kelly smiles, waves. Then as Roger sloshes past, to the car.
elaine		And what is it about the hardware store? All they do in there is buy a bunch of tools that they don't know how to use -- and no matter what the problem is, all they'll end up doing is whacking at it with a hammer until it breaks even more.
kelly		And then they cover it all up with duct tape and then come out and say it's supposed to work that way.
roger		Let me tell you something. If I had a dollar for every time I heard "Steve's" name, I could hire somebody better than Steve, just to shake things up. Get her one of these old semi-retired guys - someone from the pre-steroid days, with the hairy shoulders, and the butt crack. They won't be so quick to call him every ten minutes. The Clerk comes back. Hands over a 53-piece TOOL SET.
clerk		Remember. Keep these away from anything magnetic.
roger		The thing is - I missed out.  It's like everyone else was there the day they taught all this stuff. How to look inside acar.Or a furnace. Or a rocketship.But the guys like Steve, youknow.They were born knowing allthis- and now they're laughing.
elaine		 I'm sorry - the door's stuck.
steve		I can fix that. He checks it out, taps it in one place and opens the door. Elaine steps aside, enchanted -- -- as Roger drives up and sees this. And the pain in his heart is something we can feel.
steve		If you've got a minute, sir. I'd like to show you something.
roger		 Should I bring these?
steve		That won't be -- (then as all the parts
steve		I can fix that. Roger puts the tool kit down. Joins Steve.
steve		There's your problem right there.
roger		I was afraid of that. Steve looks at him. One of those sideways looks.
steve		What you gotta do is jack up your laminate bolts and remove the calcification on the stress points.
roger		(while Steve takes
steve		Here we go. He reaches down. Pulls out a fuse assembly, holds it up.
steve		Here we go. Back in business in no time.
kid		Dad, look! Look what Steve made me! A working battleship made entirely out of Coke cans! Roger looks. It is a working battleship made from Coke cans.
kid		This is so neat! Thanks, Steve! The kid runs off. Roger looks at Elaine.
roger		Do we have a kid?
elaine		Steve got him from the truck.
dave		Just because Steve can fix things, doesn't mean he's shallow and doesn't have any concerns. All guys have concerns. Deep concerns.
dave		Hell yeah. Steve gives him a look. Turns on the radio.
caller		I'm just sayin' those owners better never run into me. Because God help 'em, man.
caller		I mean it, man.
caller		Grocery -- the guy batted 340, from both sides.
caller		.I try to - I'm trying. But I just can't make sense of this... Mike the Moose stops the tape.
dave		Meaningless? Mike the Moose looks at him.
tv announcer		.seventy-seven per cent from the line during the regular season, and a red-hot eighty-three per cent during the playoffs.
roger		Stop saying that!
gene		Stop saying that!
tv announcer		So they really picked the wrong guy to foul, at this crucial point in such a crucial game.
tv announcer		He dribbles. He sets -- he dribbles again... Roger and Gene lean forward.
roger		Come on come on come on comeoncomeon --
gene		Miss the shot miss the shot miss the shot come on and miss the shot --
tv announcer		-- and the Knicks call time out. They lean back in their seats; breathe some relief.
elaine		They don't know the players. The players don't know them - yet they idolize these people. They follow them from team to team -- and they know more about these teams than they know about their own families. They might not even know if they have families.
kelly		Not during the playoffs anyway.
elaine		 And what gets me is, they think - they really think - that whether a team wins or loses or not depends on how much they personally care about them. Like if they don't care, the team can't win.
dave		But that's true. They look over - see him on the counter.
elaine		What's true.
dave		It's true that the level of concern a guy shows for his team can affect the outcome of the game.  I mean not just one guy - but lots of guys. All the guys who care about the team combined, if they really care, can make a difference on the scoreboard.
elaine		That's crazy.
kelly		Who is he?
dave		 -- Follow me.
dave		For the first time ever, through the use of highly advanced technology, we will be able to see the actual Concern Rays emanating from the minds of Roger and Gene, in their attempt to affect the outcome of this upcoming - and totally critical - foul shot.
dave		These Concern Rays go straight into the television screen where they join the combined Concern Rays of all the other guy fans watching this game right now.
dave		 Then the rays are transmitted to the actual arena itself, all arriving at the same moment regardless of any geographic or time zone differences.
dave		And it is here, at the arena, where the combined Concern Rays from both teams' fans will be measured - not just for quantity, but for quality. Because this - as every Guy must believe - is what wins ball games.
tv announcer		He sets...he takes the shot...it's
roger		-- Come on come on come on ---
gene		Miss the shot miss the shot miss the
tv announcer		-- and he misses! He misses! It bounces off the rim and Miami wins the game! What a comeback! A field day for the Heat! Roger and Gene leap up and scream. High fives, victory dance. Dave looks at Elaine and Kelly - who look at each other...
elaine		Let's get back to those invitations.
kelly		I'm with you. They turn, go back to the kitchen. The celebration goes on.
dave		If there's one thing women don't know about when it comes to guys, it's the public rest room problem. And we're here to clear that up right now. He stops outside a MEN'S REST ROOM, which is currently closed for maintenance.
dave		This room is a private hell for a countless number of guys -- yet the women in their lives are completely in the dark about it.
dave		I see.
dave		Um...you were saying?
dave		With me now is the great John Madden -- legendary coach of football's Oakland Raiders and veteran network analyst for CBS Sports and now the Fox Sports Network. John, thanks for coming by today.
john madden		Happy to be here Dave.
dave		John, you heard what our leading expert said about this particular anxiety that guys have regarding bathrooms in general and public ones in particular. Any thoughts?
john madden		Well he's exactly right, Dave. I mean the guy was a little loopy but he hit the nail on the head.
dave		So an airport bathroom presents a specific kind of challenge.
john madden		The worst kind, Dave, and in a lotta ways. Because a guy's main goal is to get in and outta there without having to deal in any other way with any other guy - and in an airport bathroom especially, with the turnover rate they've got, he's up against some pretty mean odds.
dave		Couldn't agree more, John. Let's go
john madden		Okay. Now this angle here, we're outside the bathroom and the maintenance guy's just about to open it up. We SEE THE AREA OUTSIDE THE MEN'S ROOM, WITH "CLOSED FOR MAINTENANCE" SIGNS IN ENGLISH AND SPANISH. A JANITOR starts removing the signs as a BUSINESS TRAVELER heads over.
dave		Here's our first candidate now --
john madden		Okay now the leadoff guy, he's gonna come in, he's gonna see the open field and he's gonna swing wide right to grab a spot against the wall. He's got one flank covered this way and for now he's feelin' pretty good -- and of course by doin' that, he's also settin' the tone for everything that happens after.
dave		What's the main thing we're looking for, John. What does each individual guy feel he needs to get out of this.
john madden		Well the crucial thing here, is makin' sure there's no eye contact. I mean none - zero. These guys'll look up, they'll look down, they'll look straight ahead -- but a guy would rather have you poke both his eyes out with burning hot fire tongs, Dave, than to give the next guy over a reason to think you might be lookin' at him in a public bathroom. For reasons that oughtta be pretty darn obvious.
dave		Obvious indeed. Now here comes Guy Number Two -- The SECOND GUY comes in; John diagrams the call.
john madden		Now Guy Number Two, what he's gonna do is, he's gonna come in, see the first guy in position along the wall and right away he's gonna line up wide on the opposite side. This is a best case scenario here, something both these guys can appreciate. Plus they've opened up the middle for the third guy -- The THIRD GUY comes in. John diagrams his path to the middle urinal. The Guy goes there.
dave		What about eye contact in this situation.
john madden		Well you're still not likely to encounter any, but again if you do, that's what that buffer zone on either side of him's for. And all three of 'em are feelin' pretty lucky to have it, I can tell you that.
dave		Okay. Now if things stay like this...
john madden		If things stay like this, you're fine - and if this were some small commuter airport, y'know late at night or somethin', then these guys could possibly even be home free. But we're talkin' Miami International here, this is the big time, we're talking about 747's, DC-10's, the big jumbo jets dumpin' off three- four hundred people at a clip. So everybody's gonna be next to somebody, which is the last thing any of these guys want. You're in a critical mass situation, and this is where a lotta mistakes get made.
dave		Which brings us to Guy Number Four. Here he comes --
john madden		-- and there he goes... Guy #4 spins around and leaves. John and Dave watch; then.
dave		Now one thing that I know we're going to get asked, John, especially from women, is whether, as guys, we're aware of how utterly stupid this kind of behavior really is.
john madden		Well I think we know, Dave. Don't you think we know?
dave		I think we do.
dave		If there's anything that causes more anguish in a guy than sports anguish, and public restroom anguish, and hardware store anguish, it's the day that he realizes that somehow his life is half over now, and no matter what he tries to tell himself, he's not young anymore and he's never going to be young again.  And as any guy'll tell you - it sucks.
elevator guy		I got used to having the Beatles and Stones called 'classic rock.' Then I heard Elvis Costello on an Oldies station. I figured, okay - who cares - at least it's on somewhere. But then I hear "London Calling," on Muzak. By the Clash. On Muzak.
barber		The way I see it, it's like menopause, right? Except men get it different. It doesn't show, y'see? The cramps don't come, the hot and cold flashes, and you don't have your magazines and drug stores filled with helpful stuff to do about it. But something comes, and it hits every guy who's living whether he likes it or not. Whether he knows it or not. Guy can lose his bleepin' mind if he doesn't watch out. He gets a mirror to show Dave the back. Gives him time to get philosophical.
barber		But you know? Maybe it's for the better. Maybe whoever designed all this, was afraid to let the men in on what was gonna be happening. Like if we knew, we'd bail or something. You know, ahead of time.
bartender		I'm just telling you what I see. Every lousy day. A guy'll come in and sit down, right where you are. He loosens up a little and then it comes. The road not taken. Unexamined choices. An unfulfilled life. And other guys, they'll come in and don't say a word. The ones who just stare at the mirror.
dave		That sounds pretty bleak.
lawyer		.therefore please be advised that in reference to the aforementioned subject matter, as per the original agreement dated 7 March Two Thousand, -- His Secretary stops writing. Waits.
lawyer		...7 March Two Thousand...
secretary		Um. You said that already.
lawyer		 I started here on the 7th of March. Fifteen years ago...
secretary		Oh. Well - Happy Anni--
lawyer		What the hell am I doing. Why did I even think this would be a good idea -- to work my ass off every single day of my life? So I could come in here and dictate letters like this?
secretary		They're not all like this. You do a lot of good...
lawyer		And what does it get me -- a twin- turbo convertible that I don't even get to drive, because I'm always traveling and renting shitbox cars in other cities where all I do is take clients out to lunch and tell them how to negotiate their golden parachutes? You ever sit in the driver's seat of one of those renta cars?
secretary		Well my husband usually does the --
lawyer		Brand new cars, not even two thousand miles on them, and already they drive like camels. The seat's got no cushion left already, and you're lucky if you don't need a chiropractor after twenty minutes in one. What do people do in those things?
secretary		Maybe I could get you something. You want something?
lawyer		Yeah. I want something. I want the number of that hang-gliding place
secretary		You want to go hang gliding?
lawyer		I want to teach hang gliding.
secretary		I'm sorry. I didn't know you did that.
lawyer		I don't do that. I want to do that. I've always wanted to do that, and lots of other things too -- only I'm stuck doing this all day long. And I don't even know what this is half the time, just that I have to spend every waking hour doing it. So you tell me -- where the hell does hang gliding fit into that.
secretary		Um. Saturdays?
lawyer		Give me a break.
secretary		 Where are you going?
lawyer		I should have done this a long time ago.
secretary		What about the letter?
lawyer		Put in the usual bullshit. Nobody's gonna read it anyway. He's gone. She sits there.
lawyer		Hi!
johnny lake		Sorry. We're closed.
lawyer		 -- It's two thirty in the afternoon.
johnny lake		Hey. I don't make the rules.
lawyer		Aren't you the owner?
johnny lake		You're right. I do make the rules. We're closed.
lawyer		 Look, there has to -- I really want to learn this -- I just quit my job to learn this.
johnny lake		Be my guest - learn it. He kicks the frame again, walks off. The Lawyer watches.
lawyer		How can you do this? This is the perfect job!
johnny lake		Yeah right. Driving around in a rusted worthless pickup truck that's about to be repossessed anyway, while a guy like you, my own age, is going around in a Porsche Carrera.
lawyer		But you get to fly.
johnny lake		No, you get to fly. I get to hoof this shit up and down these godforsaken hilltops listening to stockbrokers brag about getting lap dances from college coeds, and charging the whole thing through the company expense account -- while I can't even deduct my blood pressure medication. That's what I get to do. He kicks a rock in the road, which almost feels good enough so he kicks another one -- but this one is buried in the dirt like an iceberg and doesn't budge --
johnny lake		Ahh, SHIT! -- and he falls down hobbling on one knee instead.
lawyer		Look at this.
johnny lake		You got that right. The Lawyer shakes his head; flips the page.
johnny lake		Hey.  You don't think he's gonna...
lawyer		What.
johnny lake		You know. Have to use the --
lawyer		Glove?  You hurt your knee. He already took the x-rays.
johnny lake		What if something's broken.
lawyer		Well he's not going in that way. You don't do a rectal to set a guy's leg. Still the guy looks doubtful. The ORTHOPEDIC SURGEON - British, familiar - comes in, with a fresh X-RAY.
orthopedic surgeon		Well you've done quite a number on yourself. Want to see?
johnny lake		Why should I. I wouldn't know what the hell I'm looking at. You're the one who went to medical school.
orthopedic surgeon		Don't remind me.  What. You think I like this?
lawyer		Well.. .aren't you?
orthopedic surgeon		Of courseIam - I'm an orthopedic surgeon!Ijust don't like people assumingit!
orthopedic surgeon		-- Let me show you something.  I've been working on this during my free time. Not like I get any. He gets an accordion-style envelope; takes out a REAM OF TYPED PAGES. Hands it over to Johnny Lake.
johnny lake		What is it?
orthopedic surgeon		What is it? It's a screenplay! This'll blow the lid off the orthopedic surgery industry! Look - look here -- (takes it back; flips
dave		Okay! Well it looks like it's time to talk about sex.
dave		For the sake of any younger viewers who might still be paying attention, during this next segment we will be using certain euphemisms to describe a natural and wonderful thing that happens among grownups - grownups besides your parents, that is.
dave		Probably the fastest growing sector of the U.S. economy is the sector that conducts surveys asking women
dave		when I say "euphemisms," I of course am not suggesting that guys don't have them. Guys have plenty of euphemisms. Most guys have more euphemisms in a single day - and here I am thinking of a day that occurred in the summer between ninth and tenth grades - than some women have in a lifetime - or longer, in the case of certain Math Teachers.
dave		It all goes back to a time, millions of years ago, when primitive males often had to complete their part of the equation quickly and right away stand ready to fight off attackers.
dave		Today, however, women want euphemisms too -- and this ability in males is no longer as prized as it once was.
dave		one technique for holding back the inevitable, is when the guy - just when he is about to have his euphemism - will hurl himself violently into an iron bed railing, and raise a lump on his head the size of a golf ball.
gene		There's nothing there!
dave		In cases where there aren't any iron railings, a good backup technique can be found right on the end of the cold wet nose of the trusted family dog. CAMERA PANS to the window where we hear:
kelly		Yes...yes...
gene		.yesyesyesyes...yesyesyesyes...
kelly		.just hold on...yes...
gene		.yesyesyesyesYEEE00000WWWW!!! CAMERA PANS back to Dave.
dave		There are also mental techniques --
dave		One of the most time honored and reliable mental delaying styles, is the Baseball Method --  -- how's it going, Champ. Roger pokes his head out of the blanket; stays active from the neck down.
roger		Oh - yeah hi.
dave		And that did the trick.
roger		Oh hell yeah. I mean I could go all night - literally all night - just shuffling my pitching staff around, or thinking about who I might try and sign at the winter meetings. Hang on -- He goes under the blanket; pays more attention to Elaine... then comes back.
roger		The thing is, it got stale. And I found after a while I wasn't enjoying sex or baseball that much. And you don't want to mess with that stuff.
roger		Math problems.
dave		Really?  You mean like if a train leaves Chicago at one o'clock and another train leaves Denver at two o'clock and they're going at different speeds?
roger		 I can't do train ones. I always end up imagining this beautiful girl on the train - and it makes things even worse. Elaine stops. Pops her head out.
elaine		what beautiful girl.
roger		-- You, Elaine. The girl on the train is always you.
elaine		Oh, Roger...
dave		As you can see, a lot of guys are making a tremendous effort here - and yet, according to certain standards they are still, basically, lame as hell on almost every single count. The reason for this is simple: women set the standards.  And not just bedroom standards -- all standards. Because women invented standards. Remember the Dawn of Guys?
primate elaine		I've been thinking. We need some standards around here.
primate kelly		What are standards?
primate elaine		Standards are like rules. Things they'll have to do. And things they'll have to stop doing.
primate kelly		How about "no leaving your dirty smelly loincloths wherever you feel like it, and expecting me to do something about it?" Can that be a standard?
primate elaine		That can be one of the first.
primate elaine		There are all kinds of things we can get them to do.
primate lucy		How? They're stronger than we are.
primate kelly		They smell stronger maybe.
primate lucy		Of the men, or the rotten fish?
primate kelly		There's a difference? More laughing; then they turn back to Primate Elaine.
primate kelly		But how will we make them go along? Most of them can't even remember which cave to come home to every night. How are they going to remember rules?
primate elaine		We'll give them a Look.
primate lucy		A look?
primate elaine		A special look. A 'Certain Look.'
primate kelly		But we look at them every day. And they still do whatever they want.
primate elaine		 I've been working on this. Watch. She turns to Primate Blonde Woman, who is holding a gourd. On the Look, the Blonde drops the gourd.
primate elaine		See? And she wasn't even doing anything. Agreements and "Wows" go all around.
primate elaine		Now who's with me.
primate gene		What are you doing later.
primate roger		I don't know. Probably just stare at the fire.
primate gene		A bunch of us are going over to Primate Blonde Woman's cave to see what she does with those gourds. Want to come?
primate roger		-- Can't. Primate Elaine's ancestors are still here.
primate gene		Bummer.
primate roger		Tell me about it.
primate elaine		I don't get it. What was wrong with the other one.
primate roger		This one's better. It's an upgrade.
primate roger		An 'upgrade.' An improvement on a previous design.
primate roger		 The guy said there are newer ones coming out that'll make even this one look primitive. They're getting lighter and rounder every epoch.
primate roger		Primate Discount Manny.
primate elaine		Dad.  I just wanted to know what the difference is between this one and the one you had. You were so excited about it when you got it, and now you've gotten rid of it -- and the only difference I can see is where this one has these markings painted on. She holds it up; something like BASEBALL SEAMS going around.
primate roger		Those make it so it travels better.
primate elaine		Painted on?  -- What'd it cost you.
primate roger		Nothing. A couple wildebeeste steaks and handful of seeds of some kind.
primate roger		Who's a bum. Are you calling me a bum?
primate roger		Oh yeah? Who do you think killed your dinner tonight?
primate elaine		Look. Just take it back. Please.
primate roger		But I can't do that! All sales are final!
primate elaine		You can explain it to him. Tell him he can keep the steaks, but we want the seeds back.
primate elaine		 Just take this back. All right?
primate roger		This is totally unreasonable!
primate roger		-- I'll take it back. She smiles. FREEZE IMAGE.
dave		This is basically where we stand today. The only difference is, we have way more standards.  There are social standards, about being sensitive - remembering anniversaries, listening during conversations, not eating soup with your hands, or sitting around in your underwear when company's over.
dave		-- And there are thousands of standards for domestic life, involving even more totally un-guy concepts -- like curtains, bedspreads, napkins, special hangers, little soaps shaped like fruit, and decorative boxes that hold tissues that already come in a box. While guys, left on their own in the wild, will develop lifestyles that don't involve any of these things.
college gene		I know just what this place needs.
dave		of course, even by the most basic standards, these two are living like savages. But they honestly don't know this -- because Guys, in their natural state, aren't any more aware of domestic standards than a trout would be aware of the stock market. And this causes women a lot of concern.
seattle girl		Take laundry. To him his clean clothes are ready when he's ready to go get them. And they can dry the rest of the way in the drawer. But they don't dry the rest of the way in the drawer, they sit there in damp musty unfolded balls and he doesn't even mind, and I can't figure that out. What is the matter with folding something? What is the matter with waiting for it to be dry?
dave		Laundry's a big issue - and a deep and puzzling mystery to guys. My own wife Michelle, for instance, is an accomplished sportswriter and mother of an extremely young child, yet she is still able to maintain a vigorous clothes-cleaning regimen bordering on the super-human. And I'm not allowed near the stuff.
michelle		(comes in with more
dave		These are clearly secret codes, that women intuitively understand but cannot adequately explain -- just like how a lot of guys understand the Infield Fly Rule, without being able to explain that.
michelle		I can explain the Infield Fly Rule.
dave		Because you're special, Sweetheart.
sidra		Sometimes I think they're just like tapeworms. You know? I mean tapeworms are just tapeworms - that's all they are, and all they'll ever be. They're just these repulsive little parasitic beasts and nobody expects anything different from them - because people know that's their nature. And it's the same way with guys - although a tapeworm's more likely to help clean out the garage.
mia		They will make a game out of anything. A contest out of anything. Give them a grain of sand and they will figure out some game with it.
lila		And they'll argue over the rules.
sidra		 I just get him to wash my car when that stuff happens.
dave		 So now that we've heard your thoughts. The frustration, the exasperation... the obvious question comes to mind: Why go through it? Why have guys in your life at all? They look at him.
mia		-- You mean as a choice? You mean like a mature adult choice to have a guy in your life? In spite of everything?
sidra		Like trying to borrow money from you, after you've broken up, so he can buy something for his new girlfriend? And wondering what the problem was with that? I mean like really not knowing? Dave looks at her. They all do. Until --
lila		I'll tell you why. There is no good reason, that's why. The others turn, look her way.
lila		-- I mean don't get me wrong. They really can be fun. You know, like a big stupid dog can be fun. I mean not everything has to be so serious in life. You want to be able to do more with someone than just read book reviews together - which is something a guy would never do anyway. (then as the others
mia		And you're the person he thought of.
lila		 I swear, if they knew how adorable they are sometimes, they'd be dangerous. I mean -- more dangerous. The other Girls think about that. Considering...
sidra		-- Bullshit. They're tapeworms. The rest of them agree and all high-five her. Dave leans back from the fray, turns to the CAMERA.
dave		I think it's time for the conclusion now.
dave		Well now you know where things stand. You've learned a little bit about guys, and the critical roles they've played in the past and in modern society today. And for better or worse, they're here with us to stay -- so the best thing you can do about it, is continue to learn about them - by coming to see this movie lots and lots of times, and bringing more and more of your friends back every time you do. Because the more people that understand guys, the better for everyone. And the more people that -- (as the Lawyer launches
john madden		Now these are the kinda end credits you like to see. You got the final update thing goin', where you find out how all the characters you've been watchin' are gonna turn out. You got good music, a lively kinda feel, and maybe most of all, the movie itself isn't too long -- He reacts now, looking down at the TAIL CREDITS as they start speeding up.
john madden		-- that's how you know it's a real movie, in my book. That's how you know it's not some boring kinda art piece made by these tortured head case kids fresh outta film school -- you're not gonna come outta this theater talkin' about symbolism, or the use of darkness and light or any kinda mumbo-jumbo like that -- you come out of this movie and you're laughin'. And that's what I like in a movie - a movie that's funny but it doesn't take forever, you know? You still got some time to do somethin' after, maybe go get somethin' to eat, y'know? Because the guys behind the thing knew enough not to drag on and on and --
****Dialogues from script :Dawn_of_the_Dead.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Day_of_the_Dead.txt****

tony		Another dead place. I tol' you. Let's get out to the islands.
miguel		The radio signals were coming from this area.
tony		Not from the city. In every city it's the same. Dead. Let's get out to the barrier islands. If there are survivors sending those signals that's where we'll find them.
miguel		Plenty of time for the islands. The rest of our...life...on the islands...I think.
miguel		We gotta see if there are others here. We came all this way. We're gonna check it out.
tony		Ptoooo! Nothing! Dry as a bone. No gas. Let's get outa here.
miguel		Check them all. And check the tanks under the pumps.
miguel		HELLO. IS THERE ANYONE THERE? HELLO. HELLOOOOOOO....
maria		Dios mia.
tony		I tol' him. I tol' him this is a dead place. Like all the others.
maria		AY! GASOLINA! GASOLINA!
sarah		I have to stop the infection... Querrida...
chico		HEY ! WHAT ARE WE DOIN' THIS FOR? WE CAN STICK TOGETHER. WE CAN USE EACH OTHER'S GUNS.
chico		You got a boat.
chico		I don't know where they went, man. I don't know. I swear.
chico		YOU....YOU MOTHERFUCKERS!
sarah		MIGUELITO. MI VIDA. MIGUEL MIO.
chico		JESUS CHRIST! GET UP HERE, WOMAN! GET THE HELL UP HERE!
maria		TONY....TONY....
tony		PULL IN! GET THE OTHERS.
sarah		Help me get him to the boat.
chico		Leave him.
sarah		Help me or die.
tony		Aaaaaaah...my God...my God...I am heartily sorry...for having offended Thee....offended Thee...
maria		Shhhhh....Tony. Rest, rest.
tony		I detest all my sins...because... because of Thy just punishment... because of Thy...just...punish...
miguel		He is dying. I will end his pain.
maria		NOOOOOOOOO!
tony		...but most of all because...they offend Thee, my God...Who art all good...and deserving...deserving of all my love...
miguel		He is dying. He knows it.
maria		You are dying, too.
miguel		No. The disease was cut away from me. I will live. I will live.
tony		I firmly resolve...with the... with the help...the help of...of Thy grace...
maria		Tony...TONY!
maria		NO! YOU CAN'T!
sarah		It must be done. You know this. It must by done to keep him from...
maria		It won't happen to him! It won't happen to him! You heard his prayer. His prayer will save him. He could never become one of...one of those... devils.
miguel		Prayers have no power to save. The knife can save. It can cut the disease away. The bullet. It can shatter the brain where the evil takes seed. These are saviours...our new saviours...our only saviours.
maria		We must wait. One day the curse will pass. One day a dead man will... will...
miguel		One day a dead man will refuse to return, and that man will be a saint. The first saint of our century. That's a prayer, too. A catechism. Something the priests tell us to believe.
maria		You can believe this, Miguel. I'll kill you if you shoot. We must wait. I'll....I'll do it....I'll do it myself....when it needs to be done.
miguel		No. You won't be able to do it. He will rise. He will rise and you... you will die.
chico		It looks uninhabited. What do you think?
miguel		I think we should burn the church. Kill the priest and burn the church. It's the only way. The only way.
chico		I'm pullin' in.
miguel		DATURA!!! DATURA!!! MIRA. DATURA!!!
chico		What's he saying?
chico		His madness....could be from shock.
sarah		No. I didn't stop the infection in time. I know.  Don't worry. When he dies, I won't be like Maria. I'll shoot him.
miguel		DATURA!!! DATURA!!! DATURA METEL!!!
sarah		No. No shooting. Not until we're sure we're alone on this island.
miguel		No. No, thank you. No ice. Straight up, please. No ice. Thank you.
miguel		NO ICE, I SAID!!! NOOOOO ICE!!!
miguel		Burn the church. Kill the priest and burn the church. Burn....
sarah		What is it?
chico		I dunno. Landing pad for a helicopter? I dunno.
chico		It's some kind of....elevator. There must be something under the ground here....maybe....military.
sarah		Look.
chico		What do we do? Let'em know we're here....or what?
sarah		Let's just....wait a minute. Get a better look.
sarah		OH, MY GOD!!!
chico		It can't be. Are we truly in hell?
sarah		Come on.
sarah		What is that? Could that be....?
sarah		No. They must have gotten them to accept....other things. They wouldn't be feeding them with....they wouldn't...
rhodes		You'll get used to this, Tyler. It's the only way. They don't bite the hand that feeds.
rhodes		GET THAT THING AWAY FROM THE OTHERS! BRING IT HERE!
rhodes		We have visitors. Let's go men.
rhodes		Hah! If only the rest of you ladies would obey orders the way they do.
rhodes		THAT'S IT, YOU WORM-EATEN SLIME ! YOU FOUL- SMELLING, PUSS-FACED MAGGOTS! I TOLD YOU I'D FIND YOU REAL ACTION, DIDN'T I? YOU CORRUPTION! YOU FILTH! YOU'RE LEARNING! YOU'RE GETTING BETTER....GETTING BETTER...GETTING BETTER, YOU SCUM!
chico		NO! NOOOOO! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!
rhodes		SPREAD OUT, MEN! OPEN FIRE!
miguel		BURN THE CHURCH! KILL THE PRIEST!
miguel		KILL THE PRIEST! BURN THE CHURCH! BURN! BURN! BURN! BURN! BURN!
miguel		Kill the priest.
chico		Yes...yes, do it...please...you can't let me die this way...please. Destroy me. A bullet...in the head...I don't want to become...one of...one of them.
rhodes		Take his weapon, Tyler.
rhodes		Take his gun, ass hole. He still has the strength to pull a trigger.
chico		Please...senor...destroy me...one bullet...please.
rhodes		Maybe. We'll have a little talk first. Then....maybe...I can help you out. String him up.
rhodes		They can handle it, Tyler. You've been buckin' for a shit detail lately so here's one you're gonna love. We've got two dead. Cut the heads off and get the bodies underground to the refrigerators. Fast. It's a hot day.
rhodes		Tyler. Just our men. Not him.
rhodes		His head stays where it is. He and I never really had the chance to get acquainted. When he comes back...I'll get another shot at it... Ha ha ha ha...
chico		Please....shoot me.
rhodes		And if I don't? If I don't you'll come back after your death. You'll come back and find yourself hanging there...wanting to eat...needing to eat human flesh. You hate that thought, don't you? That's the ultimate sin for most of you fools, isn't it?
rhodes		After hanging up there a few days you will be mad for food...crazed! You will lust for it! YOU WILL BE WORSE THAN ANY OF THEM!
chico		NO...NOOOOOOO...SHOOT ME! SHOOT ME! SHOOOOOOOOOT MEEEEEEEEE!!!
rhodes		I'll bargain with you. How many of you are on the island?
chico		Two of us...only two of us...me...and him. 
rhodes		I don't believe you, rebel. Where are your headquarters? On the mainland?
chico		The mainland...is dead...a dead place...nobody there...
rhodes		Where are your headquarters, rebel? Tell me or I'll let you hang there forever...FOREVER!
chico		There are no...headquarters. There are no...rebels. Only the walking dead. Don't you see. They have won.
rhodes		Then why did you come here?
chico		To look...look for a place...a place to live in...an empty place...a... new...place...
rhodes		How did you know we were on this island? Do others know? Will others come?
chico		Nooooo. Believe me. There are no others...no rebels...nobody...it's over...it's ooooo....
rhodes		Where are you going, Tyler?
toby		My..."detail", sir. We're going to bury the heads.
rhodes		No time for that. I'll take care of them.
toby		Just....following procedure, sir. They're entitled to burial.
rhodes		I said, I'll take care of them. Just leave them there. Go help with the rest of the gear.
rhodes		WHO FIRED THAT SHOT? WHO FIRED THAT SHOT?
rhodes		Goddammit, somebody's gonna tell me who fired that shot or I'll have every last one of you chopped up for feed!!!
rhodes		Step up here, Tyler.
toby		Sir!
rhodes		You fired that shot, didn't you?
toby		No, sir.
rhodes		Let me see your weapon.
rhodes		It's been fired.
toby		In the battle, sir.
rhodes		It may be that none of these chicken-shits will talk while the whole troop is present...but I know some of these men well. I'm sure that a few private conversations will tell me what I already know. You may have earned yourself some time in the Stalag, Tyler.  Cut him down. That's another head for you to chop off. Leave it with the others. Take the rest of his body down to the freezers. Move it, shit hill.
john		It's alright. It's alright. Don't be afraid. We're friends.
john		There are soldiers near here. Guards. I'll take my hand away if you won't scream.
john		Right. We better get away from that Bee. He might have friends.
john		Bees. That's what we call the dead... the walking dead...here on Gasparilla's island.
sarah		Gasparilla?
john		He was a pirate who sailed these waters long ago. His name is bein' borrowed these days by the long lost Henry Dickerson.
sarah		Governor Dickerson? Of Florida?
john		That's the man. He's been holed up here ever since the shit hit the fan. Him and his family owned these islands 'round here. They was leasin' this one to the Fed. The whole underneath is dug out. There was missiles here and laboratories and bomb proof housing, nuclear power, all o' that. Now this is Dickerson's....Gasparilla's... private fortress. Him and a bunch o' his cronies from all the best golf courses in Tallahassee...and his private army, of course.
sarah		We ran up against a platoon of soldiers. There were actually walking dead...in uniform...with guns.
john		Captain Rhodes and his Red Coat Bees. They could sting, sister. We know you came up against 'em. We been watchin' you since you landed. Couldn't help. I'm sorry for that. We ain't supposed to be outside. If we was spotted it could....well, it could be the end of everything.
john		Give that to me. Get behind me. Stay behind me.
sarah		Thanks. I can fight my own battles.
john		I know you can. Like I said, we been watchin' you.
john		 We found nine entrances to the Cave so far, and we ain't got the whole thing near charted yet. That's what we was doin' out here today. Huntin' for entrances.
sarah		The man I was with...until today... believed that praying was for blind men who couldn't see the truth.
john		How we gonna break the curse without a prayer or two.
sarah		Curse?
john		What is it if it ain't a curse?
sarah		It's a disease. It's a...a bug...a parasite that infects the brain.
john		That sounds like a curse to me.
sarah		We thought we were escaping here. We thought we'd found an uninhabited island. Christ! This place is a worse nightmare than anything I've seen yet!
john		I'm sure that's true, miss. And that's why we're doin' what we're doin'. What's happenin' underground here is just what Lucifer planned for this sinful race o' man. But we're gonna beat Lucifer. We're gonna put an end to what's happenin' here.
sarah		Oh, what did I run into? A bunch o' Jesus nuts? Religiosos? Prayer won't stop a bullet from one of those storm troopers and prayer won't keep one of those monsters from eatin' your liver for lunch.
john		That's why we didn't use prayers on this here white coat 'til after he was destroyed. We ready to fight when we have to. And we gotta fight now.
sarah		Look. I BEEN fightin', mister. I been fightin' for what feels like a hundred years and I'm finished. I don't need religion. I don't need prayers. I need a couple guns and a couple hands. We can sail on outa here. Find another island where there ain't so much....traffic.
john		You think you can find your boat? There's a thousand little inlets and backwaters all through here. You remember all the ways you turned to get where you are now? You leave yourself a trail?
john		We didn't see the exact spot but we know about where you landed. But we ain't ready to take you there. Not yet. You see...we need guns, too.
sarah		I can find it myself. I didn't come that far.
john		Farther than you think. You'll get lost. You will. And there's Bees all through the jungle. I ain't lyin' to ya. Religiosos don't lie.
sarah		No. They just try to hold you for ransom. Fuck you, Moses! I'm outa here!
john		We don't need her guns that bad. Billy boy. 
john		We'll split up. Billy, you go with Spider. Just an hour or two tonight, that's all. Rhodes might have extra guards on after all the commotion. We'll meet up at number six and go back home together.
sarah		Are you gonna pause to say words over the dead this time or can we be on our way?
guard		There's activity in the dormitory!
mary		This is Mary Henried. Did anyone enter the dormitory?
rhodes		Take it, friend. Take it. It's a present. From me to you.
rhodes		Just remember who gives you favours.
rhodes		Well, Bub. I've heard about you. Miss Henried's pride and joy.
rhodes		Surly sonofabitch. I want to make friends, Bub. Friends. I have one more goodie in my sack here.
rhodes		Come, come, Miss Science. You've seen worse.
mary		God....damn you, Rhodes!
rhodes		God has damned us all. Are my atrocities worse than yours?
mary		You have ruined weeks of work here! We've been trying to wean these specimens onto alligator meat!
rhodes		No wonder they're so....hungry.
julie		I didn't realise! Those were de-caps! I didn't know that....de-caps... revived!
rhodes		Any dead whose brains are intact will revive.
julie		But...we bury the heads. Oh. God! It must be torture for them!
rhodes		They are brutes without feeling. Though I admit that I've requested cremation for myself. Burial is an archaic tradition, even more ridiculous now than it ever was. To say nothing of the...spacing problem...on a small island like this.
julie		I thought the purpose of decapitation was to...to...
rhodes		The purpose of decapitation is to preserve as much...food...as possible. The purpose for feeding is to keep the beasts on our side. The fact that they can be taught to clean up our garbage or to fire a gun is a convenient side benefit, not the primary goal. The primary goal is to keep ourselves from becoming their supper. Keep them fed and they behave. Keep them hungry and they revert back to being the animals that they have always been. You saw them in there.
mary		You gave them a fresh taste of blood!
rhodes		They will never be satisfied with anything else, Miss Henried. They want human flesh. I'm prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to see to it they don't get mine! Not while I'm still using it!
julie		Did you know? About the de-caps?
mary		I'd never seen it before.
julie		But you knew.
julie		What else is there, doctor? What else do you people know that the rest of us don't?
rhodes		You can't run away from the planet, Miss Science. You can't even run away from the island, heh heh.
mary		Leave me alone, you...COCKSUCKER!!!
mary		You're....you're disgusting! You're....FILTH!
rhodes		And you're the one who builds the bomb and they says, 'I hope it'll never actually be used'.
mary		 Julie Grant is a behaviouralist. She's not medical. She hasn't been as...exposed to...to things...as some of the rest of us. She'll be alright. I'll talk to her. She'll be alright.
rhodes		Oh, I have no doubt.
mary		 If you put her on the shit list because of her reaction here tonight I'll go to Dickerson.
rhodes		Ah, yes, our noble Gasparilla does seem to favour you lately. I understand he assigned you a roommate of your choice. The rest of us have to pick names out of a hat.
mary		 Rhodes, you and I had a roll in the hay together when I first got here. It was a wholly unsatisfying experience which I do not want to, and which I never will repeat! So give up, mister! I'm going home...to that roommate you mentioned.
mary		Take your hands off me! Right now!
rhodes		Maybe you'll change your mind when it starts getting too lonely for you.
rhodes		I'm not entirely without influence myself, Miss Science. I had your roommate assigned...by Gasparilla... to my platoon. What's his name? Tyler? Yes. Toby Tyler.
rhodes		I had an unfortunate little run-in with him today. In fact...you might say that Mr. Tyler is in big trouble with the...authorities.
mary		You better not mess with me, Rhodes. I'd love to serve your balls to those Red Coats for lunch! Think about it!
rhodes		No, Miss Science. You're the one who needs to do some thinking.
mary		Toby...thank God...wait here. I gotta find out what's goin' on.
toby		Hey. Slow down. What is it?
mary		Some of Rhodes' men. At the door.
toby		That bastard. I didn't think he'd make his move so fast.
mary		It's because of me.
toby		Oh, bullshit, Mary. It's because Rhodes is a prick.
mary		I want you to leave. Then maybe...
toby		We're both gonna leave. Leave the island. I've been talkin' to Tricks. We think we can smuggle out one of those inflatable rafts. They're crated up real small. They've got air canisters. There's food inside. Even a little motor.
mary		I am not...a guerilla fighter, Toby. I'm not a pioneer. I'm not...I'm not strong that way. I need...
toby		Need what? Civilised order like we have down here? Christ!
mary		I can work here. Maybe my work can help...help everyone. I can do more good with access to this equipment than I can off in some wasteland.
toby		For the good of mankind. That's what every monster-maker says.
toby		We're gettin' out. Me and Tricks. I want you to come with us. I want that more than anything. I'll send word. I'll let you know a time and a place to meet. We probably won't be able to wait around so if you're not there on the dot...well...if you're not there, I'll know you're not comin'.
toby		 I don't know what they're gonna do to me. I figure they'll just send me out to Stalag Seventeen but if...if it's worse than that...Tricks will know. Stay in touch with Tricks.
soldier		You Tyler?
toby		Yes.
soldier		You're under arrest. I'll take your weapon.
mary		What's he supposed to have done? What are the charges?
soldier		Dunno, ma'm. We're on orders.
mary		Look...I'm Mary Henried. I'm with the special conditioning center. I'm not without influence...
toby		 Mary.
mary		I'll have somebody's ass for this. I'll have your ass, soldier. I'm not gonna stand here and...
toby		 MARY!
toby		I'll be alright. Just remember the things I said. Take care of yourself.
john		The fences make a safe pathway to Stalag Seventeen. That's where we live. That's where you gonna live, too. Hell's half acre. It's not a nice place. Them boys there is prisoners. What's their punishment? They sent out to the Stalag for a few weeks. That's punishment enough.
pregnant woman		How 'bout it, baby. I'm big but I'm beautiful.
drunk		HEY, YOU FUCK! YOU FUCK!
drunk		I OUGHTA SLICE YOU UP, YOU FUCK! YOU CAN'T PUSH ME AROUND LIKE... PUSH ME AROUND...LIKE...
john		This is home, darlin'. Home for us that don't make the grade. Us that ain't...good enough to live inside The Cave. We grow a little food, do a little light manufacturin'...like these here vests, we make these for the massers. We live in our own filth, with bugs and snakes and disease and jungle fever...all the time waitin' to become breakfast for the Bees.
john		It's a tunnel. It's a couple hundred yards. Just keep goin' 'til you reach the end. I'll be right behind you.
lukey		Doc Logan! Doc Logan! Dere's a lady dead out dere! Gotta hurry! Gotta hurry! Dunno how long she been dat way! Maybe she gettin' ready to come back.
logan		Bury the head. Call the guard for the rest. Get it off the table for now. We'll bring this new one in.
logan		What is it?
diesel		The tunnel.
logan		God. It's almost sun-up.
logan		Who are you? Who are you?
john		It's OK. It's OK, Doc. She's with us.
john		This here's the hospital. That's Diesel over there, the big guy. This here's Lukey and that's Doc Logan who's about to cut your tonsils out.
john		This here's all the weapons we got. That's why your fancy automatic looks so good to us. We gotta stick it over here with the others for now. They catch us with any kind o' weapon and its death without even askin' your name.
john		Ammunition. You got ammunition in your pack there? I hope you do or the gun ain't worth much.
john		We better just hide the whole pack, darlin'. That stuff is just shoutin' out that it come from the mainland. The shit we get is all C.D. rations. Aspirins and
john		Let's go. You look like you could use some shut eye. Me too. We can all get acquainted tomorrow.
logan		How do we know she's alright? How do we know?
logan		How do we know she's alright? How do we know?
diesel		Are you alright, Doc? You look... you look real bad.
logan		I have looked bad for four years. Everyone in the world has looked bad for four years. Thank God looks don't matter as much as they once did.
john		This just ain't your day, is it, darlin' Sarah.
john		Three more minutes. Then you can sleep. You gotta stay with it for three more minutes.
logan		How do we know she's alright? How do we know?
john		They supply us with disinfectant and dope. Sex, drugs and rock-and-roll. What more could anyone ask for? Most around here ain't interested in changin' their lives. The folks you met...me and them and a couple others is the whole rebel army. Nobody else gives a shit...and they're afraid o' Rhodes.
sarah		They seem to be havin' a good time. Some punishment.
john		You disappear in here, darlin'. You get a knife in yer belly or too much shit in yer veins. You get lost out here and nobody's gonna notice. Rhodes, he counts on that. It all makes for food in the freezers.
john		This is your hotel. I'm not gonna stay here with you but I'll always be close. You gonna hafta take care o' yourself like you said you was able to do.
john		Some may notice that you're new. Just deny it. You'll get away with it. Nobody really looks at each other around here. Go on in. Get some sleep.
fisher		Alright! Way ta go, Kemosabe!
mary		They won't learn to use forks if they don't like the breakfast you're serving, Ted.
fisher		The fork is like a game to them. If they get into the game maybe they'll learn to like the food.
mary		It won't work.
mary		It's alright! Leave him alone!
mary		Have you seen Julie Grant this morning?
technician		She should be in the behaviour rooms.
mary		She's not. Hasn't shown up yet.
mary		Good morning, Bub.
technician		I think he wants you to watch.
mary		OK, Bub. Do your stuff.
mary		Very good, Bub. That's....very good.
mary		Where the hell have you been?
mary		Julie. Are you alright?  You were missed this morning. I need you. I don't want you getting your ass in hot water. I won't be able to help you if...
julie		I don't need any help from you!
mary		Julie...JULIE!
prosecutor		He was found with a government-issue short- wave transmitter in his quarters. He's charged with the theft of that equipment from a government installation and with possession of an illegal radio.
prosecutor		I can only suggest that the court rule in favour of the ultimate penalty for this traitor.
gasparilla		You always recommend the ultimate penalty, Tommy Lee. You and Rhodes.
gasparilla		All those...AGAINST...the ultimate penalty raise yer hands.
gasparilla		Ya mean ta say nobody's gonna object to the ultimate penalty in this here case? Well, what if I object? What if I object to the ultimate penalty.
gasparilla		There's been a whole lotta swingin' influence and swingin' weight arountyere lately. Does anybody at all give two shits fer what I think any more? Well, I'm a- gonna let this guy off. How d'yall like that? And I want the word ta git out I let 'im off. I let 'im off. Not this council. Maybe I can improve my image rountyere.
gasparilla		Yer sentenced ta hard labour. Stalag Seventeen. A year.
prisoner		WHY DON'T YOU KILL ME! I PREFER TO DIE! I DON'T WANT TO LIVE WITH... WITH THIS KIND OF...SIN!
gasparilla		WELL, PISS ON YOU, MISTER! I JUST SAVED YOUR ASS! YOU DAMN WELL BETTER NOT GO HOLLERIN' LIKE THAT IN HERE!
prisoner		I SPIT ON YOU! THE ULTIMATE PENALTY FOR YOU! BURN IN HELL...FOR THE ULTIMATE SIN! PIG! ALL OF YOU! PIGS!
gasparilla		Well, Miss Henried, what a coincidence. You're just in time fer a case that seems ta concern you. Guess you didn't care about the other proceedin's we been dealin' with here this mornin'.
mary		I'm sorry. I was...busy. In the lab.
gasparilla		Well, you managed ta make it here jus' in time fer this case, didn't ya?
rhodes		Sir. In the matter of the State versus Private Tyler, I don't want to...
mary		 Sir, Tyler is innocent of any crime against the State. Captain Rhodes is...
gasparilla		 Miss Henried, I think you better...
mary		...Captain Rhodes is trying to...
gasparilla		 MISS HENRIED, SHUT THE HELL UP!!!
rhodes		I don't want to take up a lot of time with this. Mr Tyler shot a prisoner against orders. There are eyewitnesses. I've reprimanded Tyler and I've had him sent outside. It's as simple as that.
gasparilla		Ya had 'im sent ta the Stalag? That's all ya did to 'im?
rhodes		The prisoner was dying, sir. Tyler acted out of a sense of mercy. I don't believe Tyler to be dangerous, General. He just needs...discipline. Two or three months outside will teach him...discipline.
mary		Sir. It's quite clear that...
gasparilla		SHUT UP, MISS HENRIED! I TOL' YA B'FORE!
mary		THIS IS A TRAVESTY! CAPTAIN RHODES IS...
gasparilla		SIDDOWN, YOUNG LADY! I DONE YUP A SHIT-LOAD O' FAVOURS AND I AIN'T NEVER YET ASKED FER NOTHIN' IN RETURN! NOW HOW'D YOU LIKE TA SPEND TWO WEEKS UP T'THE VEGETABLE FARM YERSELF? THAT'S WHAT IT'LL BE IF YA DON'T SIDDOWN AN' SHUT THE HELL UP!
gasparilla		Now I think Captain's punishment is fair, considerin'. In fact I think you ain't got shit ta complain about.
mary		 I'm sorry, General, if I...spoke out of turn. It's just that...Mr Tyler is not here to defend himself. He has no representation. I don't believe due process is being served by...
gasparilla		Listen, Missy. I am the only due process that has ta be served aroun' tyere and one of the people doin' the servin' from now on is gonna be you. Now you been prancin' aroun' the Cave like yer ass was glass fer long enough! All that's
gasparilla		gonna change, young lady. Now if you still got a statement you'd like ta make, you can jus' hold onto it 'til tonight.
mary		Tonight?
gasparilla		That's right. 'Bout eight, if that suits. We'll start out in my gymnasium an' progress on from there...to various other forms o' physical therapy.
gasparilla		AWRITE. C'MON LADIES. OFF WITH IT... AND ON WITH IT...HA HA HA...
gasparilla		Oh, Lordy, Lordy...I'm drunk as a skunk. Look at this...will ya jus' loooooook at these lovelies! Say, Henried, you ever try it with another woman?
gasparilla		I've tried it with boys. Too strenuous.
gasparilla		Folks...I just couldn't resist. How d'yall like those? How do those taste?
gasparilla		Fresh from the freezers, folks. It's what...THEY...EAT!
gasparilla		Just kiddin' folks. Just kiddin'. Would I do a thing like that? I ask ya now, would I? Hah ha ha ha ha...
gasparilla		The great state of Florida. People came here fer years ta die. Retire and expire. The rest o' the country used ta think we was nothin' but a bunch o' farts and fogies. Hah! Now this here's the new Capital o' the World! Hah! They came here...died...went to hell...and the Devil sent 'em back as an army. Hah! General Gasparilla's army...MY ARMY!
mary		We think there are other cities surviving. We think maybe Detroit... there's some signalling out of Philly.
gasparilla		There's no place like this place. Warm climate. This facility. Christ, there ain't nothin' like this no-damn-where! Even the Feds knew that. That's why they stored so much o' their shit down here. It's all mine now. All mine. Just let 'em try ta come after us down here, which they will some day...take a likin' ta what all we got an' come after us. They'll hafta get past my army! An army that ain't afraid ta die...ha ha ha...'cause it's awreddy DAID! HA HA HA HA....
mary		It's not a very big army. And small as it is you won't be able to continue feeding it for very long. We've got to find ways of getting them to respond without relying on...
gasparilla		You'll find the ways, Miss Mary. And when ya do...we'll sail on over to the mainland...or any other damn mainland fer that matter...and start us a recruitin' program. There's millions o' Bees out there jus' waitin' fer' a General ta lead 'em on ta vict'ry!
gasparilla		Well, hi there, y'all.
rhodes		REVEILLE! REVEILLE! RISE AND SHINE!
rhodes		We found two white Bees in the jungle with their heads chopped open. I want to know who's going outside the compound. I want to know how they're going out. I want to know why they're going out. Until I get these answers...each morning...some of you will die.
sarah		Let me go! I'm the one he wants. This is all happening because of me. If I turn myself in...
john		He's just finding another reason for bumpin' us off. Don't ya see. He needs us ta die. He needs our bodies.
toby		It's alright. I'm a friend. I need help and so do you. What's a safe place to talk?
john		Ain't no place safe.
toby		Look...I know you have no reason to trust me. I've got friends in the Cave. I got some stuff comin' out this mornin'. I'm gonna try to get off the island.
toby		I'm gonna have this stuff sent over to the hospital...
john		The hospital? 
toby		Yeah. My stuff's all marked with red crosses so nobody gets too nosey. Meet me at the hospital after the supplies come in. Maybe we can find a place there to talk.
john		Maybe.
toby		Hey, Tricks. Some detail they got you on.
tricks		Not as bad as yours, pal.
toby		 What'dya get?
tricks		Rafts. Two 38s. A little ammo.
toby		We need fuel, and a couple automatics.
tricks		Hey, you. Those two on the bottom. Don't open those yet. They might be from the wrong shipment. Just keep 'em around 'til I can check.
lukey		Yessir. I never open 'em. Nossir. I keep 'em innaback for you.
diesel		He's a spy. A spy for Rhodes.
john		Give him a chance.
john		What'dya tell that soldier, soldier? You tell him we was rebels?
toby		He's my contact for Chrissake! There's two crates. Can you get me into the hospital?
toby		There ya go. Complete with air canisters...little motors.
john		We got a boat.
toby		What?
john		I say we got a boat. Can you get other stuff?
toby		I got some fuel comin' out and, I hope, some automatic rifles.
diesel		He's just tryin' to win us over. This doesn't prove anything.
john		I'm gonna trust him, Diesel. He already knows who we are and we ain't got a bunch o' time to mess around with Rhodes shootin' up the joint every mornin'.
john		Can't walk around here with these. Let's just leave 'em here 'til we ready ta use 'em.
logan		Take it away from me. Quickly. Take it! Take it!
logan		Sorry. I'm sorry. I'll, er...I'll be alright...in a moment.
john		You're sick, Doc. You been sick for a while now. Too sick to be workin' with us on this raid.
john		You've helped us enough, providin' cover, hidin' us out. Let the rest of us handle the physical stuff. It's too much for you.
logan		It's my fight as much as yours. The things they made me do...the things they made...me...do. I want so see Rhodes destroyed. I want to see all of them, all of them destroyed. It's my duty...in the eyes of God. In the eyes of God.
toby		It won't work. That's pure nitro you're dealin' with there. That stuff can blow if you look at is funny. What're you gonna do, walk into the Cave carryin' those tubes on feather pillows? You don't have a complete layout of the place. Even if you manage to avoid a fight you won't know where to go.
john		We're hopin' you can show us where ta go, Toby.
toby		Oh, no. I'm tryin' to get off this island alive. I'll help you all I can but I'm not goin' in there on a suicide mission. What can you hope to accomplish? Some radios maybe? A supply room or two? You'll all be killed and in a few weeks they'll be back to business as usual. That place was built to withstand nuclear attack! What are you gonna do with a half-dozen guns and a few sticks of nitro?
john		We're gonna blow up the powder magazine.
toby		What?
john		We know what's down there. We did the loading' and unloadin' when the stuff came ashore in the early days. A direct hit oughta do more than a few weeks worth o' damage.
toby		A direct hit'll blow the top off this whole island! How're you gonna fuse the stuff? How're you gonna leave yourself time to get out?
logan		If we don't get out it's a small price to pay.
toby		You're fuckin' out of your minds! There's two hundred people down there. You gonna murder two hundred people?
logan		Sinners! Animals! Filth! Doing the work of the Devil!
toby		What about the people here in the camp? If they don't get blown to kingdom come their food'll be destroyed, their water, medical supplies. They won't have any more power. This island can't support them all, they'll be doomed. Count me out, friends. I'm gonna get my ass outa here. Anybody wants to come along is welcome.
toby		I wanna see Rhodes burn just a much as you do...but all those people. We don't have the right to be their judges... just like they don't have the right to be our judges.
logan		We know what we must do. It's written for us in the Bible. "They shall be driven from the land of the living down to the world of the dead. That is the fate of those who care nothing for God."
sarah		Toby's right. They're not gonna sit around with their fingers up their asses while we bust up their toys.
john		Datura.
sarah		What?
john		Datura Metel. The Devil's Trumpet. Don't worry. I ain't goin' religioso again. It's a flower that grows on these islands. Where I come from the voodoo priests used it whenever they needed a Mickey Finn. It's toxic. Ground up you can put it in a drink or inject it...or...in a sealed area it might be introduced through the ventilation system.
sarah		Datura! Miguel knew it! Datura, he was shouting! Datura Metel!
john		We always planned to use it. We got some ground up already...but we could never find enough.
sarah		There's hundreds of 'em. Right where we landed our boat.
toby		This stuff really works? No shit?
john		Quicker than gas. And it smells a lot prettier. It usually don't kill but it puts ya under fer a good night's sleep.
toby		If you could knock out the central communications room you could foul up their whole intercom system. Then, if you move fast enough, stay ahead of 'em...without bein' able to signal each other, they might have a hard time catchin' you.
john		I say it's poetic. Pure calypso, brother. The Devil's Trumpet blowin' the notes o' doom for the Devil's troops. Ha ha ha ha ha...
sarah		Looks like just two. We can take 'em when the time comes.
john		We're only about a quarter-mile from Cave entrance number five.
toby		That entrance is closest to the labs and the Bee cages.
john		Come on. Let's go.
john		Just stand guard for now. Spell us after a while. Can't breathe this grass too long or somebody hafta carry you home.
toby		Maintenance shafts run behind all the main rooms. Nobody's in those at night. You can use them to get around in. Hit the power governors first. Kick a surge into their computer network and you erase everything stored in the memory. Then...over in here...that's where the cages are...
lukey		I coulden stop 'em, boss. No way I coulda stop 'em, I sweah. They tie me up and stick dis...  ...they stick dis in my mouf. You b'lieve dis?
toby		Jesus! They're gonna try to do it! They're goin' in! They got somebody to help 'em from the inside!
lukey		They din' get da pistols. You know dem pistols you buddy send in widda raffs.
toby		I gotta get Mary out. Tricks. We gotta go now! Tonight! Right away!
sally		We're not ready.
john		Well...if ya think about it...we as ready as we ever gonna be. How was they carryin' the nitro, Lukey?
lukey		Oh, me. You ain't gonna b'lieve dis, neider. You ain't, I sweah. They put it inta Spidah's body.
toby		They what?
lukey		De Doc. He cut up Spidah here and here and here...all ovah. He stick dem tubes in dere, like undah da skin...an' den he sews 'em all up. I sweah. I sweah, sweah, sweah!
logan		I know it hurts. But it won't be long. Then all the pain will be over. Oh, I wish you could hear me. GOD, GIVE HER THE EARS TO HEAR ME SO SHE KNOWS I DON'T WANT HER TO HURT SO!
diesel		Quiet!
logan		Oh, yes. Quiet. Yes. We must be quiet.
logan		FALLEN ANGEL! THIS IS THE JUDGEMENT DAY WHEN YOU WILL BURN FOR YOUR SINS! THE LORD WILL CAST YOU DOWN TO THE LOWER REACHES AND YOU SHALL FOREVER KNOW....
logan		...YOU SHALL FOREVER KNOW THE PAIN... THE PAIN...
logan		YOU SHALL FOREVER KNOW THE PAIN OF HELL... THE PAIN OF HELL.
logan		...the pain of Hell...the pain...the pain...
toby		Okay. Lemme have 'em.
radio man		What's that? Smell it?
technician		Dunno. Must be comin' from outside. Kinda nice.
julie		Don't move!
julie		Open the outer door. Move it!
young man		Hey! What the hell.....?
logan		ENOUGH! ENOUGH! ENOUGH! ENOUGH!
julie		What...what is this? Who...?
logan		It's alright, it's alright, my dear. You've simply helped us do the Lord's work.
julie		What...what have you done to her?
logan		God forgive us. Forgive us the pain we inflict as surgeons. We'll be in Heaven, child. Soon. We'll be with Him in Heaven.
spider		Na...na...ak...aaaaaaaaaa...
logan		NO YOU DON'T I CAN'T LET YOU DO THAT! I CAN'T!
jack		Outa the way, Doc! Outa the way!
jack		Shit!
diesel		Keep the woman covered.
rhodes		Don't be alarmed. We're impregnable. Stay where you are. Nothing will happen to any of you. You're safe here. Men.
gasparilla		Well, c'mon, ladies and gents. Who says we gotta let our evenin' get spoiled? Simon sez...GET DOWN!!!
toby		That's the general alarm. Jesus! They musta got in!
john		What you wanna do?
toby		Come on!
guard		 What's goin' on?
diesel		You'd hold us back. We have to go on.
logan		Hmmmmmm? Oh, yes. Go on.
diesel		Maps. Yes. She was supposed to bring us maps.
diesel		Alright. Let's go.
toby		Come on, Mary. Answer. ANSWER!
toby		Tricks, it's Tyler. We're inside.
toby		No. There's some loonies from outside. They're gonna try to blow the powder magazine.
toby		Find Mary. If you can get help do it. We're gonna hit the power station and haul-ass outa here. We'll be at exit five...that's exit five in exactly ten minutes.
toby		And Mary! You gotta find Mary!
julie		Those buttons won't work! The evacuation command overrides them.
julie		CUT ME LOOSE! PLEASE! CUT ME LOOSE!
gasparilla		STAY HERE! STAY PUT! WE'LL BE ALRIGHT! WE'RE SAFE HERE! JUST AS SAFE AS ANYWHERE 'TIL WE FIND OUT WHAT'S GOIN' ON!
nurse		What is it? What's happening?
mary		It's an evacuation signal. The radios are out. People are panicking.
nurse		What should we do?
mary		God. I, er...I dunno what to say. It could be a real evacuation or it could just be a glitch in the system. Wait here for now. I'll...I'll make sure you get the word what to do, okay?
nurse		Please...hurry...
logan		We'll be in Heaven soon. We'll all be in Heaven soon.  Pain. God forgive the pain inflicted by surgeons. We must atone. We must atone for our sins.
logan		We must...atone. We must.
logan		WE WILL ATONE. WE WILL BE THE SACRIFICE...THE COMMUNION...WE OFFER OURSELVES UP...OUR SOUL...AND OUR BODIES...
mary		Tricks! What's going on?
tricks		Toby's in the Cave. We're gonna make our move. There's rebels out to blow the powder magazine. Come on. Come with us.
mary		Where are you goin' out?
tricks		Exit five.
mary		See ya there.
tricks		SEVEN MINUTES, MARY. EXACTLY SEVEN MINUTES!
rhodes		THIS WAY. OVER HERE! SHOOT! SHOOT THEM! SHOOT TO KILL! IN THE HEAD!
trooper		Captain...CAPTAIN!
toby		Tricks...Jesus...
tricks		I'm alright. Let's go.
rhodes		HENRIED! WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
rhodes		STOP THEM! SHOOT!
soldier		The...the children, sir.
rhodes		After them then! I want them stopped! That woman is dangerous!
mary		It's alright. I don't think they'll hurt us. Try to stay calm.
rhodes		SHOOT IT OPEN!
nurse		They're coming! They're coming!
mary		NO...BLUTO...I'M TRYING TO...
mary		Look. It's good to shoot the circles. Good. Good.
mary		THAT'S IT! THAT'S IT!
john		What is it?
sarah		It's...he was...one who came to the island with me.
toby		Come on. No time.
sarah		He was killed...five days ago.
mary		Maybe...maybe he wasn't dead. Are you sure he was dead when you left him?
sarah		Look at him. A hundred bullets. You tell me. Was he dead?
sarah		Five days...and he hasn't...risen. He hasn't risen.
toby		Come on. There's no time. There's no time to lose.
soldier		WHO IS IT? WHO'S OUT THERE?
john		Damn you, island. Damn you ta Hell and worse!
sarah		No. Don't. Wait. Wait to see if... wait until it's necessary.
sarah		Me too...please.
john		Satan ain't sent this man back. Not yet, anyway. So we all hopin' that maybe he's up there with you, Lord. This might be the first decent soul we been able ta offer ya in quite a few years. That's a fact. We just gonna... pray, Lord. We gonna pray that what seems ta be happenin' here...is really happenin'...and I'm gonna take the chance and speak these words that I ain't been able ta speak for so long...
the others		Amen.
john		Just me. I'll take the next shift.
sarah		How long do we have to watch him?
john		Forever, darlin'. Forever. 'Til he turns ta dust and blows away on the wind.
****Dialogues from script :Day_the_Clown_Cried.txt****

midget		Coffee?  It's nice and hot.
midget		15 Minutes to circus... 15 minutes to circus.
ringmaster		Ladies and gentlemen, we proudly present... "The Clowns"!
mr schmidt		 Not to mention how unprofessional that was...
helmut		But it was an accident...
gustav		Oh, sure it was... A very well planned and calculated accident!
helmut		I swear to you... it was an accident!
gustav		I don't want to hear any more... You will get me another stooge. I don't want this man!!
schmidt		Don't get excited, Gustav, you shall have it.
gustav		You bet I will, or you shall have no show.
schmidt		 You will run with the other clowns and that's all you will do... is that clear?
schmidt		 And if there is another one of your cute tricks... I promise you will do your bits for the "Cats" while cleaning their cages!
helmut		Clause... give me a double whiskey with beer chaser.
clause		 You won't get "Funny" out of a bottle.
helmut		And you won't make a dime sticking your nose in other people's business.
ada		Helmut, darling, are you all right?
helmut		 Do I look like I'm not all right?
ada		I was so worried about you...  Your dinner is cold and I couldn't imagine what happened to you...
helmut		Were you really worried about me or your stupid dinner was getting cold?
ada		Sweetheart, I care about you...  I love you... I worry about you...  I can't help those feelings...
helmut		If there is anything I don't need right now... it's your super- sentimentality...
ada		Helmut... what's tormenting your soul?  Please let me help you... talk to me...  I don't care what it is... I love you...  I'm your friend... you can trust me to understand...
helmut		I can't trust anybody... I don't know how to trust anybody...
ada		I'm not anybody!  I'm your wife!
helmut		I'm sorry, my love... I'm so sorry... You're right!  You're not anybody. You're my wife and I love you, too... So very much I just have no one to fight back at... I'm lost and alone, I can't handle the disgrace of failure... the pain of being a has- been is more than I can bear...
ada		Schmidt again?  Gustav again?  When will you learn they fear you and they know how vulnerable you are now...  if they can beat you down then they needn't worry about you coming back to haunt them.
helmut		They worry about me?  Don't be ridiculous...  they just took the last comic bit away from me... because of a silly accident...  I'm now down at the bottom, just a stooge assisting a not-so-funny clown.
ada		But they can't take your talent away...  That's your strongest force!
helmut		What the hell are you talking about? What talent?  And if I had any it's being suffocated into nothing... And that's just what I am now... nothing... No one... just empty... a prop to be used and mis-used... how does my great talent stand up to those odds?
ada		By not quitting... You must fight! Creative survival is even more difficult than human survival... You must fight!!!
ada		 Go to Schmidt... Force a confrontation...  Don't let Gustav win...  make Schmidt see what an injustice they are imposing on you... Please, my love, fight!  Make your world better by fighting for it... You can do it... I know you can...
helmut		I will go now and see Schmidt... I will tell him I won't take any more degradation... I will tell him I am a "clown" not a stooge...  A "clown"... A special person...  A special clown...
ada		 Go, my love... Go and fight for what you know is right... I will warm your dinner and wait for you to come home.
schmidt		Naturally, I agree... Doork is a nuisance, but to just let him go seems a little unfair.
gustav		Schmidt!  Don't make me put it on a "either him or me basis".
schmidt		All right... all right... I'll give him --
clause		 It's your funeral.
helmut		 A funeral is usually in order when someone dies.
helmut		The trouble with man today is that he takes everything for granted... he thinks things he's told to think... and accepts it! Just because we know meanings of words we use them and we fool ourselves...  people should use the dictionary more...  look up words like good... bad... honest... loyal... especially loyal,  I know what loyal means, and I have always been that... but does anyone care?  No!  Of course not...  Only when it is expedient... When it isn't ---  --- ZIPPPP!  You're out!
helmut		And that goes for you too... Mine Fuhrer...
helmut		... you, too, are a fool.  You allow yourself to think you have "loyal" followers...  Ha!  Wait until they've had it with you...  You'll get yours... all the smiling, bowing, heel clicking idiots will shaft you too.  And you will deserve it because if you allow people like Herr Schmidt to got about his business of lying, and cheating, and being disloyal, one day all the Schmidts in Germany will turn on you and you will finish as the dumb little corporal you started as, and never know what hit you...
helmut		He really has to be stupid --  I could help him by telling him about the people he thinks are good Germans... Ha!
helmut		 What are you staring at?  Didn't you ever see a man drink before?
helmut		What's the matter?  Haven't you guys got a sense of humor?  You must have! Look how you're dressed!  Grown men in their little soldier suits... And the black coats and gloves... Like in a movie...
helmut		Real cloak and dagger stuff...  Didn't you Gestapo guys ever know that everybody can spot you a mile away?  Listen, if you really wanted to be unnoticed...  You should dress like plain people, then nobody would know you... You might even wear straw hats and shorts...
helmut		Straw hats and shorts!!  That's funny! Now that's really funny, isn't it? Straw hats and shorts!
helmut		Well, isn't that funny?   Think of it...  That's funny!   Why don't you laugh?
helmut		 I know why you're not laughing... Because things you hear, you have to think about... I'll show you something that you'll laugh at because all you'll have to do is watch...
helmut		Ve vill conquer the world...  Heil me!  Heil me!  Heil me!
reicher		STEINER !!!!  Get in here!
corporal		Heil Hitler!  Reicher flips his wrist in answer to the heil, showing complete annoyance at having to do it.
reicher		Do I see what I think I see here?
reicher		Never put your hands on my desk... is that clear?
corporal		 Yes sir!
reicher		MOVE IT!!
reicher		 Now tell me, is this brief correct? Is that prisoner, the drunk, the one that impersonated the Fuehrer?
corporal		Yes sir!  It is!
reicher		 I get all the weirdos...  Alright, Corporal, send him in!
corporal		Yes sir!!!!
reicher		Alright, come in, sit down!
reicher		 Are you Helmut Doork?
helmut		 Doork, yes sir, Helmut Doork!  I am he!  Yes sir, that is correct, Doork!
reicher		And are you a clown in the circus?
helmut		 Not JUST A CLOWN!  I am Helmut Doork, Premier Clown!  I've clowned for the royal heads of many of our finest countries, why there were times when I had to...
reicher		 That was years ago... According to these papers you are now just a helper in the circus with little or no importance!!
helmut		 Some things are only temporary... Lt. Reicher!  Only yesterday, I had calls from one of the great circus owners in all of Europe... he...
reicher		 You are NOTHING!!  You are a HAS BEEN!!  You WERE A CLOWN...
reicher		 You are now a prisoner of the State and that's not funny... Can you make something funny out of that, Clown?
helmut		 No!  Lt. Reicher, I can't make anything funny from that thought...
reicher		It is no thought... It is fact, Clown, unquestionable fact!!  Now down to the issues at hand...  Did you willfully and with malice attack the State and impersonate the Fuhrer?
helmut		 I was drunk!  It was a mistake!  I meant no disrespect... Sir... Honestly, I was drunk and not responsible for my actions and thoughts!  And my actions were subconscious!
reicher		 Subconscious??  Meaning it was all motivated by truth that came out under the influence of alcohol!
helmut		 I am a LOYAL German!
reicher		And what kind of commendation would you expect for being a loyal German?
helmut		I want nothing!  But I'm more loyal than most Germans I know...
reicher		Like who?
helmut		Ah, like... re...
reicher		Names!   Names!!!  Who?
helmut		I don't know...
reicher		Sir!!!
helmut		I don't know, sir...
reicher		But you said other Germans... What OTHER Germans...  Who are they?  Why aren't they loyal?  Who?
helmut		 I'm not responsible for what I say now...
reicher		Why?  You're not drinking... you said you weren't responsible last night because you were drunk!  Are you drunk now?
helmut		No, sir!
reicher		Then why are you not responsible now?
helmut		I don't know!!
reicher		SIR!!!
helmut		I don't know -- sir !!!
reicher		Why are you not responsible?  Why? Why?  Why?  Why?
ada		Excuse me, sir, but I wonder if you would help me... you see...
ada		You don't understand...
ada		HELMUT !
ada		Go away !!
guard		Tsk!  tsk!  tsk!  shame on you, Doork... shame...  don't you want to grow big and strong like me?
guard		We must eat our food!  Do we want Uncle to feed the little man?
guard		 And now one for Aunt Ada...
guard		 Let go, Doork, let go... it's the soup that makes us big and strong... not the spoon... LET IT GO!
guard		 Now let's try it again...
guard		I said let's try it again...
guard		Oh, I know why you're unhappy... soup without bread is terrible...
guard		Isn't that better?  Now take some soup...
helmut		I've had enough, thank you... No more, please...
helmut		Please!
guard		I'm surprised at you, Doork, you've been here two years now, you should have learned we, of the Third Reich, never acknowledge the weak, sniveling, begging of you swine...  that's all you're good for... begging... pleading... praying...  you're a disgrace to the human race.  That's why we of the superior race must do away with all of you...
guard		And we will!  We will!  Do away with all of you.  You're worthless pigs... with no courage, no guts, why if anyone did to me what I just did to Doork I would kill him!  Why don't you kill me, Doork?  Go on...  kill me... kill me... take the knife from the table and kill me...
helmut		 I would kill you... but I am getting my release any day now... and I won't do anything that would spoil my chances...
guard		Your release?
guard		Release?  They told me you were funny...  but I never realized just how funny you are...  RELEASE ????
helmut		 Dear God, please hear me!
keltner		He hears you, my son...
keltner		 Here, here, easy, you can't do this to yourself...
helmut		You frightened me, Johann, I'm sorry...
keltner		 You have nothing to be sorry for... Fear isn't something controlled by man...  fear can not be conferred with...  there isn't anyway known to mankind where man can say to himself...  "I will not be afraid"... Oh, certainly man can try to fight it... but faith and believing are man's only chance...  You must have faith... you must!
helmut		I have faith... but not always... sometimes it eludes me...  I can't remember to remember it.
keltner		But that's natural... you can't expect to be perfect in what you try to do...
helmut		I don't know...
keltner		I heard what happened at breakfast this morning with ROTHMAN, the guard...
helmut		Will they do something to me? What have you heard?
keltner		 Nothing, absolutely nothing... don't worry about it... I just wanted you to know that I believe you handled yourself admirably...
helmut		That was one time I didn't care for the laughs I was getting from some of the men...
keltner		Of course you didn't... but I'm sure you know man laughs for two reasons... one because something is funny... two, because they fear showing fear... they laughed because "there but for the grace of God go I!"
helmut		Do you really think so?
keltner		I'm certain of it!
helmut		Thank you, Johann.  I always feel so much better after you talk to me...
keltner		I'm glad, Helmut, I'm very glad... you know you can always talk to me, about anything...
helmut		 Oh!  I almost forgot...
helmut		Before breakfast this morning,  I spoke to one of the guards, a very intelligent one, and he seems quite nice and friendly too.  Well, he said that the Gestapo has set up a special review board to handle cases just like mine.  And he said he would get me a form, a special form.  Just been printed up.  And I'm to fill it out.  Isn't that good?
keltner		How many times since you've been here, have you filled out forms? Twenty?  Thirty times??
helmut		 But this is different.  It's entirely new.
helmut		See?  These are made up by the Gestapo itself... and the form will go directly to Berlin, to Gestapo headquarters.  That's the important thing about this... the Gestapo's in on it.  That's a very good sign.  Isn't it a good sign?
keltner		 Yes, my son, it is a good sign.
helmut		 And I have to be very careful of everything I put down on the form. The tiniest detail could make the difference.  Don't you agree?
keltner		Isn't it strange?  They are free to go anywhere they want, and they come here to nest.
keltner		 Watch the birds eat, Helmut... it's so cute...
helmut		I'm sure I've got everything here... The important facts from the moment I was arrested, the questions the Gestapo officer asked me...  now what was his name again?  I can't seem to remember what his name was...
keltner		HELMUT...
helmut		What the devil was his name?
helmut		 Oh, yes, Johann... I'm sorry... you were saying?
keltner		You're not a religious man, are you, Helmut?
helmut		 Well, I... ah...
keltner		Not sure I am myself anymore.
keltner		Yet... when I see those birds, I wonder...  were they sent here to let us know this place really isn't God forsaken?
helmut		He should have sent them elsewhere... they could be eaten here!
ludwig		 I think we should eat it!
keltner		Not on your life...  Er, that is... I wouldn't...
franz		Put it somewhere so it can brighten up the place.
ludwig		 It would take a hell of a lot more than that to brighten up this place.
adolf		It'll be better than looking at your long face.
keltner		 Do you see the way it's sprouting... I told you it wasn't completely rotten.
helmut		 That's nice, Johann.  Do you remember when I filled out those last forms? The date might be important.
keltner		 About four weeks ago, I think.
keltner		I'll put it up here on the window sill, it'll get the morning sun.
stout prisoner		Think you can trust your potato so close to me, Reverend?
ludwig		The potato he TRUSTS... it's you he doesn't trust!
guard		ATTENTION !
guard		All the prisoners from the other side of the camp are being moved over to this side of the camp over to this side of the camp.  Barracks "H" will make room for three additional bunks.
guard		I want all the bunks moved down toward the far end.  Get them as close together as possible. Now! GET MOVING!
the men		 Gotta have more room... We need more space...  Hey, watch where you're going. This is stupid!
guard		 YOU!  You down there at the end... get those bunks right up against the wall.
guard		Hurry it up!  Come on, get moving!
guard		Get them close.  You're all going to be nice and cozy in here.
stout prisoner		 Yeah, like triplets before they are born to a mother weighing 98 pounds...
herman		That's what I call cozy!
helmut		 Excuse me, sir, the papers...  Did they arrive yet?
guard		 They'll have to wait!
helmut		You'd think, since he was coming over here anyway, the least he could do was bring the papers with him.
keltner		This moving men around has undoubtedly kept him very busy... don't worry, he'll bring them.
helmut		I'm sure if I asked him again he'd really become annoyed with me.  Would you remind him for me, please?
keltner		 Of course I will.
keltner		I've seen you around the yard, but the others...
herman		Do you think they're bringing in war prisoners?
ludwig		I don't know why they're sending them here...  we're overcrowded as it is.
keltner		No, no... it's got to be something else...  Otherwise they would have left the bunks.
adolf		It could be possible that he is fixing up the barracks for some of his lady friends.
keltner		That many women?
herman		 Reverend, we Germans are SUPERMEN!
guard		ATTENTION !
galt		We might as well be outside.
uhlmann		If I get pneumonia, I'll hold the government responsible!
guard		With a little luck, you'll both get pneumonia!
uhlmann		 It's sure quiet in here...
uhlmann		Hey, Galt!  Come over and look at this!
galt		 What is it?
uhlmann		Ain't it cute?
galt		It's a God damn posie!
uhlmann		Looks kinda sick, doesn't it?
galt		 It's one of them potato things... and it sure as hell is sick!
uhlmann		Maybe we should put it out of its misery.
galt		No, we don't want to do that...  we might break someone's heart.
galt		Whose little plant is this?
keltner		 The plant is MINE!
galt		Is it now?  Tell me precious... do you knit, too?
keltner		If necessary, I can... and I do !
galt		 What do you think of that, Uhlmann... he knits!
uhlmann		Now, if he could just cook...
galt		 Can you cook, sweetheart?
keltner		If necessary, I can cook, yes!  Now, if you don't mind, I'll take that plant!
galt		Alright, old man, you really want it?
galt		Go get it!!
helmut		Why don't you pick on someone your own size...
galt		 What?
helmut		 You heard me!  Give him his plant back, and leave him alone...  He didn't bother you ... and if you have to show your muscle, there's plenty of other guys to pick on!
galt		You're my size!
galt		He's alright... that'll teach him to keep his nose out of my business... here's your plant!
galt		 Go on, little man, reach for it!
herman		 Give it to him!
adolf		You heard him... give it to him!
franz		You've had your fun... give it to him... NOW!
stout prisoner		 RIGHT NOW!!
galt		Sure, here's your stupid flower or whatever you call it...
keltner		Thank you...
galt		What's the matter with you guys? Can't you take a joke?
adolf		What joke?
galt		Hell, all I was doing was trying to have a little fun.
ludwig		Have it with someone else!
galt		What's so special about him?
adolf		That's the Reverend.  Even when they came and dragged him from his church...  he kept right on preaching against them until they knocked him unconscious.
galt		Well, how the hell was I supposed to know?
herman		NOW you know!
galt		You and your posies...
uhlmann		That was close...
galt		Where were you when I need you?
uhlmann		I make love, not war!  Hey, that's pretty good... I made that up... Make love, not war!  I bet that would make a good slogan someday...
galt		Aw, shut up!
keltner		That was really very nice of you, Helmut...
helmut		Yeah, nice and STUPID!
guard		 Come in!
guard		 What the hell are you doing here? Who gave you permission to leave your quarters?
guard		Are you some kind of privileged character?
guard		Then what are you doing out of the barracks?
helmut		 If you'll shut your stupid mouth maybe I can answer one of your questions!
guard		 I have a STUPID MOUTH?
helmut		 I'm sorry, I didn't mean to raise my voice...
guard		The volume of your voice isn't the issue...  it's what comes out of your mouth that disturbs me...  maybe you need a little lesson in respect and courtesy...
guard		... and maybe I've been a little too soft with you...
guard		You see, Doork, I knew why you came in here...  I knew why you left your barracks without permission... It's just that I hadn't heard you mention your release papers for so long I had hoped I could hear you begging once more...
helmut		 I'm sorry...
guard		 I'm sorry, I'm sorry... You're a sorry specimen of a human being... that's what you are...
guard		Now, I will help you to your quarters, Herr Doork, here you will stay, and pray for release papers that may, or may not, ever come...
guard		Now, get inside where you belong and don't ever let me catch you doing anything without permission again.
guard		 Reverend!  If you don't watch that idiot, we may have to get him a keeper!
keltner		Helmut, Helmut, how could you think of doing such a thing? I begged you not to irritate him...  and that I would ask him about your papers... that wasn't smart, Helmut... not smart at all...  as a matter of fact...
helmut		 Leave me alone!  ... and mind your own business... Just leave me be...
guard		 Reverend, let him sleep... you move out, I'll take care of this...
guard		 You are a sick looking group of things...  I can't even call you human...  because you're not... you're all lice...  DISMISSED!
guard		Doork!  Move it out, and on the double!!
ludwig		 It looks like Helmut found some new ears to listen to his Super Star fantasies...
ludwig		 Ringling Brothers would have done anything for me to appear with them but I had to do what was best for me!
helmut		So I told Mr. Ringling if he wanted "Helmut" he'd have to bring his circus to Germany... I am a German, I told him, and my responsibility is to my own people who are my biggest fans.
helmut		 Of course I did... they offered me anything...  anything I wanted to go with them.
helmut		 Right!
helmut		It doesn't happen overnight... it takes years and years... You try many faces, then finally you hit the one that's just right for you.
helmut		 Wait, let me tell you some other things...  I mean things that are really exciting and...  please! Please... let me just have a few more...
helmut		 Did you know "clowns" literally bequeath their faces to their sons, or sometimes to...
uhlmann		Hey, Galt, it's your turn, how about doin' one of your belly dances for us?
galt		Reverend?
galt		Well, Reverend, what do you think? Would a little belly-dancing be too much for the boys?
keltner		 A little fun is what we need... so... if you'll all hold the noise down, I'll join in.
galt		A clown?  Who's a clown??
herman		You've heard of "Helmut Doork". That's him down there!
ludwig		Don't waste your time.  You'll never get the Great Doork to do anything.
adolf		You're wasting your time.  He doesn't perform for the likes of us... he'll turn you down.
ludwig		He's right, we've been asking him for three years...  I have a feeling he only does his little routines for the crowned heads of Europe.
adolf		And, of course, the BIG heads of Berlin.
helmut		 I'd like to, but I can't... really... I can't.
galt		 Can't?  Did I hear you say you can't?
helmut		 He can tell you... He's seen me work...  I need props... make-up... I work with a lot of different things...
helmut		 Sure, tell them... I can't just do anything...  I need lights, props, my costume.
galt		 Now, me and these... gentlemen... we don't expect you to do your "act", just a little something that'll give us a laugh, that's all.
ludwig		 Aw, forget it... and that's probably his problem...  he's forgotten how!
galt		 Play a little music, like in a circus...
galt		There!  Ain't that nice?  Don't it put you in a mood?
helmut		 I TOLD YOU!  I need things to do my act.
galt		 Yeah, that drunk thing...  that does sound funny...
helmut		I still need many things... props and...
galt		 Hey... are you trying to fool us?
keltner		Leave him alone!
galt		Stay out of this, Reverend. We're not doing anything... We just want him to join in the fun.
uhlmann		 Right!  If a Reverend can give us a laugh, why not a clown?
keltner		 It doesn't have to be anything special... a little dance, maybe?
helmut		 Like that disgusting exhibition you did?  Oh, no... not me!
helmut		Can't you get it through your heads, I need...
galt		 WE need you to give us a laugh.
galt		So... TRY!
keltner		That's enough, leave him alone!
galt		Stay out of it, Reverend!
the men		 Choke him harder...  see if that's funny!  Make him dance! Hey, Doork!... be funny now! He don't look so funny to me!  He sure as hell looks funny to me!  Hey, Galt, pull his string and make the dummy funny!
galt		Your public is calling, clown... now, clown!
guard		 On your feet!
galt		 He was showing us some of his funny clown falls...
guard		Because of all the noise coming from in here -- I have been called up front to explain...  I don't like to be called up front...  I don't like to have to explain...  Back to your bunks, all of you... Turn out the lights, and keep it QUIET !
helmut		 I was just going to ask him about the forms... my release...
keltner		 That was not the time, believe me!
keltner		Hurt much?
helmut		 No, I'm alright... thank you.
helmut		Johann, why do they pick on me? I've never done anything to them.
keltner		You've never done anything for them!
helmut		You think I should have performed?
keltner		The men would have appreciated it.
helmut		Johann!
keltner		 What is it?
helmut		They don't believe me, do they?  I mean about being a clown?
keltner		Oh, I'd say you've convinced most. However --  There is one you haven't convinced...
keltner		 You, Helmut... you!
uhlmann		They've put up barbed wire!
galt		What the hell... ?
stout prisoner		Youngsters!  They've got youngsters over there.
young prisoner		Women!
adolf		Another fence!
helmut		What does it mean?  What do they need a fence for?
keltner		 Misery loves company.  Looks like they're going to deny us even that.
guard		All right.  All right, move.  Hurry it up.  Move.
loudspeaker		Attention!  The Commandant issues the following special order:  the north side of the camp is now temporary quarters for non-Aryan prisoners.  Fraternizing between Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is strictly prohibited.  Any violation of this order will be severely punished.  Heil Hitler... Repeating...
loudspeaker		The Commandant issues the following special order:
loudspeaker		The north side of the camp is now temporary quarters for non-Aryan prisoners.  Fraternizing between Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is...
galt		 Jews!
loudspeaker		... strictly prohibited.  Any violation of this order will be severely punished.  Heil Hitler.
guard		Prisoners from barracks H remain in line.  Barracks H will remain in line.
guard		I said last night I didn't think I would enjoy being called up to account for the noise coming from barracks H.  I can tell you this morning I didn't enjoy it.
guard		I don't know what caused the trouble last night, but I'm not blaming you entirely. 
guard		We're going to correct that.  I've been told that energy comes from food.
guard		So... to help you... all rations are canceled for the next... forty-eight hours.
guard		And, if that doesn't quiet you down, I'll think of some other ideas you'll like even less. I'm going to make this barracks the quietest in the camp.  Is that clear?
guard		Now, don't blame me.  I didn't start the trouble last night.
guard		Fall out.
herman		Bastard!
stout prisoner		I can't go without food. I'll starve.
keltner		Helmut, don't.
galt		 He's the one we can thank for the diet.
helmut		Sir?  Corporal...
guard		What?
helmut		 Doork.  Helmut Doork.  Remember? The papers... You said... Remember the special forms for the Gestapo to review my case.
guard		No papers.
galt		What'd you say now, Mr. Doork, Almighty!  Last night he wouldn't give us a laugh.  Today they won't give us food.
ludwig		 What were you doing?  Making a deal with your guard pal to slip you some food?
helmut		 Because of last night... I'm not getting them.
keltner		 When this blows over, Helmut, we'll...
ludwig		 Don't feel sorry for him.  He's got no one to blame but himself.  The whole thing was his doing.
adolf		He's been telling us how great he is; how funny.  Why?  Why couldn't he have done a trick or two for us?
uhlmann		The Reverend did a turn.  What's so special about him?
keltner		Don't start anything here.  We're in enough trouble.
uhlmann		We're not starting anything, we're finishing something.
galt		We've decided Doork here is going to keep us laughing so hard we won't be able to hear our stomachs growling.
stout prisoner		Better hurry it up, clown.  'Cause my stomach's growling already. Can you hear it?
herman		Hear it!  The whole place hears it.
men		Yeah, Doork, do a trick. How about that night in Munich when they wouldn't stop laughing.  How about it, Doork? Come on, just a little trick.  Give us one laugh.  That's all we're asking for.  Come on, Helmut, do something.
franz		 He's going to do it!  He's going to do it!
helmut		 Nothing pleases an artist more than to perform.  I'm going to do a real show for you.  All I ask is that you give me a little time...  time to get things together...  things I can use as props...  I'll even try to make a costume, and...
adolf		You don't need a costume.  We've got imagination.
herman		Do the drunk pretzel like the kid suggested last night.
galt		 And do it now, clown.  No more stalling.
helmut		Let me through.
adolf		Aren't we good enough for you?
ludwig		He'd do his tricks fast enough if his guard pal asked him.  Wouldn't you, Doork?
keltner		Do something, Karl.  For God's sake, do something.
galt		And be sure it's funny.
galt		 You make us scream... scream with laughter...  or I'll tear you to shreds on the wire.
helmut		All right... all right.
men		If he's Germany's greatest clown, God help the Fatherland.  Doork, the Great!  You got paid for that?  To go without food is bad enough, but to have to watch that!
uhlmann		He's no clown.  Not even a bad one.
helmut		I am.  I am a clown!
helmut		 Give me a chance.  I just got started.
adolf		 You stink.  You really stink.
helmut		I... I slipped.   I can do it.
helmut		I am a clown.   I am.  I am.
galt		Doork the Great.
helmut		 Come back, damn you, come back.  The children... they're laughing.  They're laughing.  I am a clown.  I am a clown.
big prisoner		It's my stomach that's sensitive.
old prisoner		 Here comes your second helping.
helmut		Here.
big prisoner		How're the shoes?
helmut		Perfect.
helmut		Don't forget the bowl.
big prisoner		 Hey, Doork!
big prisoner		My shoes!
big prisoner		I said you could use 'em, not ruin 'em.
helmut		I had to fix them this way...  for the act, you know.  Wait till you see how funny it is.
big prisoner		Yeah.  But will I feel like laughing when it gets cold!
helmut		Don't worry.
big prisoner		Worry!  I'm the one who'll get frost bitten toes, not you.
helmut		When I return them, they'll be like new.  I promise.
big prisoner		For what you've done to my shoes I should get more food.
old prisoner		He's got to have something to eat.
old prisoner		 If he gives you his other meal... he'll starve to death.  Then you won't get anything.
big prisoner		 Remember... you fix them before you bring 'em back.
helmut		Promise.
keltner		Don't tell us.  Tell him.
franz		What am I supposed to do? Use pins?
herman		Who has a pin?
franz		You can laugh.  He isn't always after you for something.
keltner		No?
franz		What's that?
keltner		Chalk.
franz		What for?
herman		Where'd you get it?
keltner		From a guard.
keltner		 A very bad Nazi.  Still has a heart.
franz		I wish he'd have a heart and use someone else's coat. Or better yet -- his own.
keltner		 Ask him.
keltner		Finally got it.
keltner		 Isn't that what you wanted?
helmut		 This will do more for the act than anything.  Wait'll you see!
keltner		 For a moment there you had me worried.
franz		 I see you got smart.
helmut		His conscience bothered him.
keltner		I thought he would kill you when he saw what you had done to his shoes.
helmut		 So did I.
franz		I don't know what I'm laughing at... look at what he's doing to my coat.  Look at it!  Yesterday a button off.
helmut		 I've got to have it.  It is the only one I can get on and still is tight enough to look funny.
franz		At the rate you are tearing it up, it's going to look a lot funnier.
keltner		Give in, Franz.  You know he's going to talk you out of it again.
helmut		I'll be careful.  I swear. Besides, I've got to have it. I explained before...  a clown can't change his costume.  It's his trademark.
franz		I know... I know... but...
galt		 Why should he give it to a Jew clown? Right, kid?
franz		That's got nothing to do with it.
galt		What's the matter with you bastards anyway?  All he ever did for us was cause trouble, but for them...  I say he's one of them.
keltner		 If he were, he'd be over there
galt		That's where he belongs.
franz		What're you so hot about?  It's no skin off your...
uhlmann		 We've got a good reason for not liking them.
galt		If it wasn't for them... we wouldn't be in here.
herman		What'd you mean?
uhlmann		A bunch of them got picked up with papers we'd sold them.   And what'd they do?  Turn us in, they did.  The ungrateful...
keltner		So that was it!  Counterfeit papers. I can imagine the prices.
galt		Supply and demand, Reverend.  Supply and demand.
franz		Take it, Doork -- anytime you want it.
uhlmann		What's so terrible about what we did?  Lot of them got out of the country with our papers.  They were damn good counterfeits.
galt		 And what's more, we never charged for children.  Never.
keltner		I've been meaning to ask you.  Heard anymore about the request for a review of your case?
helmut		Did you hear the laughs I got yesterday?
helmut		Not just from the children... but the adults, too.
keltner		Never thought of that.
helmut		They said I couldn't come up with anything new.
helmut		At the circus.  Schmidt and the rest. Wait'll they see my act now.  It's funny.  Really funny.  Isn't it?
keltner		The children certainly enjoy it.
helmut		What I needed was time.  Time to concentrate on new material.  A man's got to have time alone.
keltner		 You call this being alone?
helmut		Do you think... maybe... they'd let me go to other camps and entertain?
helmut		I'd have to get to the Commandant. Would need his permission.
helmut		If you have time later, I'd like you to see something I've been working on.  I hunch down and do a tiny soldier parading.  Think they'll like it?
keltner		 Who?  The adults?
helmut		 The children, of course.
keltner		I thought the smart clown only played to the adults.
aide		 He's coming back down the hall.
bestler		Heil Hitler. 
bestler		 Come in.
bestler		Oh, stand at ease.  And, close the door.
bestler		I don't have to tell you why your Commandant was relieved of his command here. This prison is a disgrace. Disgrace! The latitude allowed by him will not be tolerated by me. Understand?
bestler		That includes the staff.  I'm going to turn this place into a model prison, a credit to the Reich. Understand?
bestler		Speak up.
scharff		Yes, Colonel.
bestler		This isn't the first prison the SS has had to take over from the military. Military men are too soft to deal with those...  Scharff starts to speak but quickly changes his mind.
scharff		Yes, sir.
bestler		You were about to say something?
scharff		Oh... I... was just going to say that I didn't hold with the soft treatment of the prisoners.
bestler		Good!  Our first order of business is to prepare...
bestler		Our first order of business is to prepare all non-Aryan prisoners for shipment in two weeks.
scharff		Where are they being sent, Colonel?
bestler		Work camps.
scharff		 But we have about 40 children, some only babies, with more scheduled to arrive tomorrow or the next day. They're not going to be much use in a work camp.
bestler		 I'm aware of that.  This order covers only the adult prisoners over fifteen. We won't have to wet nurse the children for long.  Other plans are being made for...
bestler		What is that?
bestler		What is that supposed to be?
scharff		That!  Well, you see, sir, one of the prisoners used to be a circus clown.  Sometimes he gives a little... well...  a sort of show -- for the children.
bestler		 Am I correct in assuming that those children are on the non-Aryan side of the camp?
scharff		 Yes, sir.
bestler		 And the... buffoon?  A German?
scharff		Yes, Colonel.
bestler		Am I to believe you aren't aware of the general order absolutely forbidding fraternization?
scharff		 I know about it, sir.
bestler		Close the window.
bestler		Just what do you think fraternization means, Lieutenant Scharff ?
scharff		Communication.   Social contact. Giving aid, talking... 
bestler		How long has this been going on?
scharff		Just the last two or three weeks.
bestler		And the Commandant approved?
scharff		Well, sir, children are very hard to handle.
bestler		This clown!  Who is he?
scharff		 It's... I know.  It's Doork, the Great.
bestler		Not his clown name, you idiot.  His number.  His identification.
scharff		If I have the Colonel's permission to leave, I will check it at once.
bestler		Later.  Right now I want these performances halted.  Understand?
scharff		Yes, sir.
bestler		 Immediately!
scharff		Yes, sir !
guard		 That's all.  Show's over.  Everybody clear out.
helmut		What's wrong?
guard		 You heard me.  Show's over.
guard		Go on.  Get away.
guard		Move, damn it, before I come over there and...
guard		Get them moving before somebody gets hurt.
helmut		That's all the show for today.  Go back inside.
helmut		That's right now, go along.  I'll see you tomorrow.  Goodbye.  Goodbye. Until tomorrow.
guard		Get inside and take that stuff off your face.
helmut		I don't understand.  What's the matter?
guard		Orders.  No more shows.
helmut		You mean... not ever?
guard		That's right.
helmut		But we weren't doing any harm.
guard		The Commandant thinks you are.
helmut		The Commandant?
guard		The new Commandant.  He minds.
helmut		Just because I make them laugh a little...
guard		You know the rule... no mixing with Jews.
helmut		I wasn't mixing!  I was only...
guard		 Now do what I tell you and save yourself a lot of grief.
franz		What happened?
helmut		 He says I've got to stop -- with the children.
keltner		 I've been expecting it.
ludwig		Because they're Jews?
keltner		Because of the laughing.
helmut		Why should that bother them?
keltner		When you rule by fear, laughter is the most frightening sound in the world.
helmut		I can't go out there.  I can't take another day of them staring at me.
keltner		They'll get over it.  Disappointment is no stranger to those children.
helmut		They look at me as though it was all my fault.  Haven't they been told why I can't...
keltner		I'm sure they have.
helmut		Then why do they stare?
keltner		 It's amazing how a thing like this can feed off itself.  Think how lucky we would be if we could do that.
helmut		I sewed a button on.  Look all right?
keltner		 Fine.
helmut		I did make them laugh.  Didn't I?
helmut		 I wish they'd get them out of here. Prison is no place for little children.
keltner		We've been all over that before. You've got to stop thinking about them.
helmut		 You're right!  I've got to think of myself.
keltner		It's too hot in here.  I'm going to get some air.
helmut		Johann... do you think there's any possible way I could talk to the Commandant.  Maybe I could make him understand...
keltner		There's nothing you can do... but forget.
helmut		How can I!  They were my own very special audience.  And now they stare at me as if I had betrayed them.
keltner		They're children, Helmut.  You can't expect them to understand the madness of adults.
helmut		 If I could talk to them.  To the children themselves -- that would help, wouldn't it?
helmut		If I explain it to them -- then they'll know I am not mad at them.
keltner		 You go near that fence once again... and you're taking your life in your own hands.  You know that as well as I do.
helmut		 I would just need a minute.  A minute to talk to them.
helmut		I wish to God I didn't care.  I wish to God I could forget them.
helmut		But I can't.
keltner		I'm going to ask you a question, Helmut, and I want you to think carefully before you answer.
keltner		The reason you can't get them out of your mind -- is it because you need them -- for you audience?
keltner		I want the truth.
helmut		 I really don't know what the reason is.  I think it's got something to do with... well, I don't want those little ones to think I've turned against them, too.  That's why I've got to do something.  Something.
keltner		You'll be taking a chance.  A great chance.
keltner		 All right!  Come on then.
helmut		Where are you going?
keltner		You want to talk to the children? Well, I think I can help you.
helmut		There's no reason for you to get involved in this.
keltner		Reason?  When war is waged against children!  That is reason enough for the whole damn world to get involved. And it will, believe me, it will.
keltner		So, come on, Doork the Great, let's start getting involved.
keltner		Wait here.
ludwig		 Kessler is going to talk to the children. Cover him.
galt		 Who says so?
ludwig		 The Reverend says cover him... so we cover him.
galt		All right!  I was just asking.
keltner		You know what to do?
keltner		Stay behind the men and keep an eye out for the guards on the other side.
helmut		Right.
keltner		Make it quick.  You won't have much time.
keltner		And Helmut, keep the children quiet. We don't want trouble.
helmut		 Kick it, Ludwig.  Kick it!
children		Doork, Doork, Doork is back.  It's Doork.  It's Doork.
helmut		Shhh.  Shhhh.  The guards...
children		Do a trick, Doork.  Please, Doork, please, please.
helmut		No, no.  I can't.  The guards won't let me.  Not now.  Maybe some other day.
little girl		They're bad.
helmut		What is it?  What happened?
little girl		He hurt himself.
helmut		Shhh.  Shhh.  Don't cry.  It's going to be all right.  Be careful when you're near this fence.
helmut		Here, wrap this around it.  I'll make it all better.
helmut		 Hush now.  Stop crying.  Please. Look... Look at this.
helmut		There, that's better.  No more crying now.
helmut		What's the matter with them?
little girl		They're new.  We can't understand them.  All they do is cry.
older boy		They're all the way from Czechoslovakia.
helmut		 There's nothing to be afraid of. Everything is all right.
adolf		 Hurry up.
helmut		Here.  Look.  I'll show you... No noise now.
helmut		No, no, be quiet.  Be quiet.  Shhh. Shhhh.
guard		You wouldn't listen, would you?
guard		 Go on.  Get back.
guard		You back there, get them out of here.
helmut		They had nothing to do with it.  It was all my doing.
keltner		The children! Not in front of the children!
bestler		 I just don't have the staff to send down there now and... Yes, I'll wait.
bestler		The freight car wasn't picked up.
scharff		It's still down there on the siding!
bestler		Some stupid mix up.  If they think...
bestler		Yes, General.  Heil Hitler!
bestler		Who did you leave in charge down there?
scharff		Sergeant Hoffman.  Very reliable.
bestler		Apparently not reliable enough.  The cargo seems to be raising quite a fuss.
scharff		 Fifty children, sir!  In a boxcar!
bestler		I know.  I know.  But the siding isn't far from town.  The General doesn't want unauthorized persons getting curious.  Understand?
scharff		I'll get some men down there right away.
bestler		Men!  You'll get yourself down there. And take at least a dozen guards with you.  Don't let anyone get close to that boxcar...  under any circumstances.  No one !
scharff		Yes, sir.
scharff		Sir?
scharff		I wondered, sir, if you might have any suggestions as... well...  how do we quiet children?
bestler		Use any method you can, but shut them up.  That's an order.
scharff		Sir, the clown!
scharff		The one who amused the children
bestler		Out of the question.  The man's being disciplined for that very thing.  We can't change our position now.
scharff		No one need know.
bestler		He'd know.
scharff		Sir, if I could guarantee he'd never say anything.
scharff		You see, sir, he's been trying to get a review of his case.  Claims he's here by mistake.  I could tell him you would recommend the review.
bestler		A man who wants something.  Good. Very good strategy, Lieutenant.  I've seen the best of men, after several years in solitary, unable to remember even their own names.
scharff		Then I have your permission to take the clown.
bestler		Permission granted.
helmut		Wish you could've gotten the big shoes.  The children laugh so when they see them flopping up and down.
helmut		 It's a good idea... moving the children.
helmut		Prison's no place for children. I said all along that it was some kind of mistake.
scharff		 Finish your makeup.  We're almost there.
helmut		Know what Johann Keltner said?
scharff		Who?
helmut		Keltner.  From my barracks.  The minister. He said... Let me think. He said... men who wage war on children. That's it. Men who wage war on children... commit such a crime...  ... such a heinous crime.  That's it.  Men who wage war on children commit such a heinous crime that even the devil damns their souls.
scharff		 Wait here.
scharff		Any word about the train yet?
hoffman		No, sir.  The last we heard -- it won't get here until evening.
scharff		Anyone been around?
hoffman		No, sir.
scharff		With all that wailing, it's a wonder. Couldn't you keep them quiet?
hoffman		I didn't know what to do, Lieutenant. I was afraid to close both doors.
scharff		 You post them.
hoffman		 Yes, sir.
scharff		 Leave that here.
scharff		 Over here, Clown.
helmut		They're crying.
scharff		 Take that in to them.
helmut		What is it?
scharff		Bread.  They won't wait so loud with their mouths full.
helmut		 How... how long have they been here?
scharff		You just get in there and keep them quiet.  You can do that, can't you?
scharff		Do a good job and I'll personally ask that you get a favorable decision on your case.  Understand?
helmut		Yes, sir.
older girl		 It's Doork.  It is!  It is!
helmut		 So this is where you've been hiding?
boy		I want to go home.  Take me home.
helmut		Now, now, there's nothing to cry about.  We're going to have fun.  The children pounce on the sack and tug at it, unsure what it is except that it's a gift from Helmut.
helmut		Wait now.  Don't open it yet.  Wait'll I get in.  You help me.
helmut		Look, I'm a Jack-in-the-box.
helmut		We're all Jacks-in-the-box -- the same box.
helmut		Well... who's hungry.
helmut		All right, I want everybody to sit down.  When I count three, everybody sit.  Ready?   One, two...
helmut		Oh, you're too fast.  Three!
helmut		Now... what'll we do?
little girl		I want to see my Mommy.
helmut		You would?  All right.
little girl		You know where she is?
helmut		She's right here with you.
little girl		I don't see her.
helmut		That's because you don't know how to look.  I'll show you.  Close your eyes.  All of you... close your eyes.
helmut		Everybody's eyes shut?  Now, think about your mommys and Daddys... There, don't you see them?  Can't you see their faces?
helmut		So you see!  They're right here with you.  All you have to do is look in your hearts.
little girl		 Does Mommy see me, Doork?
helmut		 Yes, she does.  She has you safe in her heart, too.
helmut		I've got an idea.  You all know my name, but I don't know yours.  So let's find out everybody's name, shall we?
helmut		You... come here and I'll show you what we'll do.
helmut		What's your name?
boy		 Willie.
helmut		Willie.  That's a good name.  How do you spell it?
boy		W-I-L-L-I-E.
helmut		Fine.  I'll just write that on top of your head.
helmut		There.  See, this way we'll all be able to tell everybody else's name just by looking at his head.
boy		Did you really?
helmut		Of course I did.  Here...
helmut		 Tell him what it says.
older boy		 It says Willie.
boy		 Really?  Truly?
helmut		Be careful.  Don't smear it.  Let's see now... Yes.  You shall be next.
helmut		What is your name?
helmut		 Forgive me.  I don't speak your language.
helmut		 Doork.
helmut		A beautiful name!  Now you tell all the children.
czech girl		 Inga.
helmut		It's such a pretty name... say it again.
czech girl		 Inga!
helmut		 I-N-G-A.  There it is.
helmut		Let's see now.  Who wants to be next.
helmut		You?
helmut		Her?
little girl		So the little children will know her name.
helmut		Of course.  That way she can't get lost, can she?  What's her name?
little girl		Frederika.
helmut		 Frederika?
helmut		Frederika!
helmut		Couldn't we just make it Freda?
little girl		 Oh, no!  Frederika.
sergeant hoffman		 Clown.  Clown, can you play one of these?
sergeant hoffman		I got it to send home to my boy... but if it'll help...
helmut		It will.  It will. 
sergeant hoffman		You won't say anything to the Lieutenant.
helmut		I promise.
helmut		Guard... guard.
helmut		It's going to be dark soon.  The little ones may be afraid.  Do you think... well... could you get some kind of a light for in here?
sergeant hoffman		 Want to get me in trouble?
sergeant hoffman		 I would if I could.
helmut		I know.  I know you would.
helmut		 It's all right -- just a bad dream.
older girl		Doork.
older girl		Where are they sending us?
helmut		 Don't know.
older girl		Do you have children?
helmut		I do now.
scharff		It finally got here.
sergeant hoffman		Yes, sir.
scharff		Help them get the car coupled on.
sergeant hoffman		 All right, clown, time to get off.
helmut		What is it?
sergeant hoffman		Train is here.  They are hooking it up now.  Here.  Tell them not to light it up until the doors are closed.
sergeant hoffman		 And get off right now.
children		We're moving.  What's happening? What was the noise?  Doork, where are we going?
helmut		 It's nothing.  You're going for a train ride.  What do you think of that?  A real train ride.
children		 Is it far?  Are you coming, too?  I don't want a train ride.
helmut		Oh, it'll be fun.  I would like to come, but I don't think I can.
children		 Please come, Doork.  Please.  Please. Please.
helmut		I can't.  They want me to stay here.
helmut		But... I'll come to see you.  Soon as I can. And, I want you all to promise me to be very good.  No crying.
helmut		If you want me...  remember, just close your eyes.
helmut		 Goodbye.
helmut		What's this now?  Crying?  After all the fun we've had?
girl		It's his birthday.  He thought there would be presents.
helmut		 He's a Czech.   Do you speak...
girl		 Of course not!
helmut		 Then how do you know it's his... birthday?
girl		 He told me.
helmut		He speaks German?
girl		No.
helmut		But he told you it's his birthday?
helmut		What date is this?
girl		 Why, it's his birthday!
girl		Don't you believe him?
helmut		Of course, I do.  Tell him I wish him a happy birthday.
girl		He knows that.  But... but what're you going to do about a present?
helmut		Aha, the very thing.  He can be the clown while I'm gone.
helmut		Happy birthday.
german boy		He's a boy!  Dolls are for girls.
helmut		When you give something you love... it doesn't matter if it's the right thing.
helmut		Maybe we have time for a birthday game.  A quick one.  Let me take a look.
helmut		Everybody line up behind me now, and I'll show you how a train goes. Wait -- the harmonica.
helmut		May I borrow it back... for just a minute or two?
helmut		For just a minute -- then I'll give it right back to you.  Just for the game.
helmut		Good.  Now everybody...  line up behind me.
helmut		Grab hold of the one in front of you...  'cause we're going to be a fast express train.
helmut		 All aboard.  All aboard.
helmut		WAIT!
helmut		Open the door!  Let me out...  LET ME OUT!
helmut		Guess I'm going with you after all.
child		Let's play some more, Doork?
scharff		I'm glad that's over.  Call in the sentries.
sergeant hoffman		Yes, sir.
scharff		Kessler in the car?
sergeant hoffman		Kessler?
scharff		The clown?
sergeant hoffman		 I... I guess he is, sir.
scharff		You GUESS!
scharff		 I told you to get him off the train.
sergeant hoffman		I told him, sir.  HE was standing right by the door.  I'm sure he got off.
scharff		Did you see him?
sergeant hoffman		Why, I...
scharff		DID you?
sergeant hoffman		You told me to see that the car was coupled on.  When I came back... Why wouldn't he get off?
scharff		Idiot!  Guards.  GUARDS!
scharff		The clown prisoner is missing.  He may have escaped.  Search the area. If he got off the train he must be around here someplace.
scharff		You know what happens if he gets away.
sergeant hoffman		 He can't get very far.
scharff		If he's on that train -- he's going farther than you know ---
scharff		... or he knows.
children		What is it?  Are we there, Doork? Where are we?  Why are we stopping?
helmut		I don't know.
burly guard		Everybody up.  No noise.
burly guard		Who the hell are you?
helmut		Where are we?
burly guard		How the devil did you get in here?
helmut		I... I'm from the other prison.  Got locked in -- by accident.
burly guard		Ah, for...  Sergeant!
sergeant		What's the matter?
burly guard		Look at this.  He's from the other camp.  Got in here with the shipment.
sergeant		How did that happen?
helmut		I... I was taking care of the children back there and... accidentally got locked in.
sergeant		Of all the... What's your name?
helmut		 Doork.  Helmut Doork.
sergeant		 Put him in the truck with the others. And, let's get going.
burly guard		 All right, in the truck, quick now!
burly guard		I said move!
helmut		 Everybody up.  Come on.  Up, up, up.
sergeant		 Not you.
helmut		Don't you want me to stay with them? They'll be frightened without me.
burly guard		Not for long, they won't.
sergeant		 That's enough.  Get them inside and keep them quiet.
burly guard		 MOVE!
helmut		Do as he says.  And, don't worry, I'll be with you soon.  I promise.
sergeant		 Come along, now.
helmut		This is just another prison.
sergeant		What'd you expect?
helmut		I thought the children were going to a better place.
runkel		 Close the door, and wait out there.
runkel		You're a remarkable man.  Very remarkable.
runkel		Have you any idea where you are?
runkel		Auschwitz.  This is Auschwitz.  You may have observed we're enlarging our facilities.
runkel		Still a great deal of work to be done. 
runkel		Yes, you are a remarkable man.  I always wonder about remarkable men.  Why did you come here?
helmut		I explained.  I got locked in the boxcar and...
runkel		 Ah, yes.  An accident.  Unavoidable I suppose.
helmut		I was taking care -- I mean, the Commandant requested me to take care of the children.
runkel		 The Commandant!
runkel		I've spoken to YOUR Commandant.  He hs you listed as an escaped prisoner.
helmut		Escaped!  But...
runkel		 Are you one of them, clown?
helmut		 No... no!  I'm not one of them.  I'm not !
runkel		You misunderstand completely.  The Judas goat is never killed.  He isn't worth killing.  I'm just asking you to lead them.
runkel		Not... even to save your own life?
runkel		 I'm glad to see you're not a self- appointed martyr.
runkel		Just think!  Now you're really one of us.
helmut		 Sir... Sir... could I... could I have a little time with them before ... before...
runkel		Yes.  Yes, of course.  You see, we're not heartless men here.
sergeant		Remember what I told you.
helmut		There won't be any trouble.
children		Doork, Doork, you came back.  You came back.  We thought you'd left us.  Don't leave us, Doork.
helmut		There.  There.  It's all right. It's all right.   Everything is going to be all right.
helmut		Now I want everyone to put on a big smile and sit down, because we're going to have more fun than we've ever had.
helmut		Good.  We'll start by seeing that we all have our names on our heads.
helmut		 Yes, yes.  There's Fritz, Maria, Sadie, Inga, Josef, Nathan, Helga, Willie...
helmut		Ah, yes, Frederika!  Good.  I see all of your names.
helmut		Now... on with the show.  Just watch this.
willie		Doork!  Doork... you're great !
sergeant		 It's time.
helmut		Just a few more minutes?
helmut		I'll bring them.
children		What's the matter, Doork?  Where are we going?  You come with us this time.  Where're they taking us.
helmut		 Tell you what.  Let's make it a big circus parade.  Everybody get in a line behind...
helmut		 ... behind Willie here.
helmut		Now, where's our band?  The harmonica?
helmut		There we are?  Everybody ready? Here we go.
first guard		Their clothes!  They've got to undress.
sergeant		Leave them alone.
